Why , I be not naturally positive .
Every one know that I would n't set my own opinion against the opinion of Mrs. Peerybingle , unless I be quite sure , on any account whatever .
Nothing should induce me .
But , this be a question of fact .
And the fact be , that the kettle begin it at least five minute before the Cricket give any sign of be in existence .
Contradict me , and I 'll say ten .
Let me narrate exactly how it happen .
I should have proceed to do so , in my very first word , but for this plain consideration -- if I be to tell a story I must begin at the beginning ; and how be it possible to begin at the beginning without begin at the kettle ?
It appear a if there be a sort of match , or trial of skill , you must understand , between the kettle and the Cricket .
And this be what lead to it , and how it come about .
Mrs. Peerybingle , go out into the raw twilight , and click over the wet stone in a pair of patten that work innumerable rough impression of the first proposition in Euclid all about the yard -- Mrs. Peerybingle fill the kettle at the water-butt .
Presently return , le the patten -LRB- and a good deal less , for they be tall , and Mrs. Peerybingle be but short -RRB- , she set the kettle on the fire .
In do which she lose her temper , or mislay it for an instant ; for , the water be uncomfortably cold , and in that slippy , slushy , sleety sort of state wherein it seem to penetrate through every kind of substance , patten ring include -- have lay hold of Mrs. Peerybingle 's toe , and even splash her leg .
And when we rather plume ourselves -LRB- with reason too -RRB- upon our leg , and keep ourselves particularly neat in point of stocking , we find this , for the moment , hard to bear .
Besides , the kettle be aggravate and obstinate .
It would n't allow itself to be adjust on the top bar ; it would n't hear of accommodate itself kindly to the knob of coal ; it would lean forward with a drunken air , and dribble , a very Idiot of a kettle , on the hearth .
It be quarrelsome , and hiss and splutter morosely at the fire .
To sum up all , the lid , resist Mrs. Peerybingle 's finger , first of all turned topsy-turvy , and then , with an ingenious pertinacity deserving of a good cause , dive sideways in -- down to the very bottom of the kettle .
And the hull of the Royal George have never make half the monstrous resistance to come out of the water which the lid of that kettle employed against Mrs. Peerybingle before she get it up again .
It look sullen and pig-headed enough , even then ; carry it handle with an air of defiance , and cock it spout pertly and mockingly at Mrs. Peerybingle , a if it say , `` I wo n't boil .
Nothing shall induce me ! ''
But , Mrs. Peerybingle , with restored good-humour , dust her chubby little hand against each other , and sit down before the kettle laughing .
Meantime , the jolly blaze uprose and fell , flash and gleam on the little Hay-maker at the top of the Dutch clock , until one might have think he stand stock-still before the Moorish Palace , and nothing be in motion but the flame .
He be on the move , however ; and have his spasm , two to the second , all right and regular .
But his suffering when the clock be go to strike be frightful to behold ; and when a Cuckoo look out of a trap-door in the Palace , and give note six time , it shake him , each time , like a spectral voice -- or like a something wiry plucking at his leg .
It be not until a violent commotion and a whirring noise among the weight and rope below him have quite subside that this terrified Hay-maker become himself again .
Nor be he startle without reason ; for these rattling , bony skeleton of clock be very disconcert in their operation , and I wonder very much how any set of men , but most of all how Dutchmen , can have have a liking to invent them .
There be a popular belief that Dutchmen love broad case and much clothing for their own low self ; and they might know good than to leave their clock so very lank and unprotected , surely .
Now it be , you observe , that the kettle begin to spend the evening .
Now it be that the kettle , grow mellow and musical , begin to have irrepressible gurglings in it throat , and to indulge in short vocal snort , which it check in the bud , a if it have n't quite make up it mind yet to be good company .
Now it be that after two or three such vain attempt to stifle it convivial sentiment , it throw off all moroseness , all reserve , and burst into a stream of song so cosy and hilarious a never maudlin nightingale yet form the least idea of .
So plain , too !
Bless you , you might have understand it like a book -- good than some book you and I could name , perhaps .
With it warm breath gush forth in a light cloud which merrily and gracefully ascend a few foot , then hang about the chimney-corner a it own domestic Heaven , it troll it song with that strong energy of cheerfulness , that it iron body hum and stir upon the fire ; and the lid itself , the recently rebellious lid -- such be the influence of a bright example -- perform a sort of jig , and clatter like a deaf and dumb young cymbal that have never know the use of it twin brother .
That this song of the kettle 's be a song of invitation and welcome to somebody out of door : to somebody at that moment come on towards the snug small home and the crisp fire : there be no doubt whatever .
Mrs. Peerybingle know it perfectly , a she sit muse before the hearth .
It 's a dark night , sing the kettle , and the rotten leaf be lie by the way ; and , above , all be mist and darkness , and , below , all be mire and clay ; and there 's only one relief in all the sad and murky air ; and I do n't know that it be one , for it 's nothing but a glare ; of deep and angry crimson , where the sun and wind together ; set a brand upon the cloud for be guilty of such weather ; and the wide open country be a long dull streak of black ; and there 's hoar frost on the finger-post , and thaw upon the track ; and the ice it be n't water , and the water be n't free ; and you could n't say that anything be what it ought to be ; but he 's coming , come , come !
-- And here , if you like , the Cricket DID chime in !
with a Chirrup , Chirrup , Chirrup of such magnitude , by way of chorus ; with a voice so astoundingly disproportionate to it size , a compare with the kettle ; -LRB- size !
you could n't see it ! -RRB-
that , if it have then and there burst itself like an overcharged gun , if it have fall a victim on the spot , and chirrup it little body into fifty piece , it would have seem a natural and inevitable consequence , for which it have expressly labour .
The kettle have have the last of it solo performance .
It persevere with undiminished ardour ; but the Cricket take first fiddle , and keep it .
Good Heaven , how it chirp !
Its shrill , sharp , piercing voice resound through the house , and seem to twinkle in the outer darkness like a star .
There be an indescribable little trill and tremble in it at it loud , which suggest it be carry off it leg , and make to leap again , by it own intense enthusiasm .
Yet they go very well together , the Cricket and the kettle .
The burden of the song be still the same ; and louder , loud , louder still , they sing it in their emulation .
The fair little listener -- for fair she be , and young ; though something of what be call the dumpling shape ; but I do n't myself object to that -- light a candle , glance at the Hay-maker on the top of the clock , who be get in a pretty average crop of minute ; and look out of the window , where she saw nothing , owe to the darkness , but her own face image in the glass .
And my opinion be -LRB- and so would yours have be -RRB- that she might have look a long way and see nothing half so agreeable .
When she come back , and sit down in her former seat , the Cricket and the kettle be still keep it up , with a perfect fury of competition .
The kettle 's weak side clearly be that he do n't know when he be beat .
There be all the excitement of a race about it .
Chirp , chirp , chirp !
Cricket a mile ahead .
Hum , hum , hum -- m -- m !
Kettle make play in the distance , like a great top .
Chirp , chirp , chirp !
Cricket round the corner .
Hum , hum , hum -- m -- m !
Kettle stick to him in his own way ; no idea of give in .
Chirp , chirp , chirp !
Cricket fresher than ever .
Hum , hum , hum -- m -- m !
Kettle slow and steady .
Chirp , chirp , chirp !
Cricket go in to finish him .
Hum , hum , hum -- m -- m !
Kettle not to be finish .
Until at last they get so jumbled together , in the hurry-skurry , helter-skelter , of the match , that whether the kettle chirp and the Cricket hum , or the Cricket chirp and the kettle hum , or they both chirp and both hum , it would have take a clear head than yours or mine to have decide with anything like certainty .
But of this there be no doubt : that , the kettle and the Cricket , at one and the same moment , and by some power of amalgamation best know to themselves , send , each , his fireside song of comfort stream into a ray of the candle that shine out through the window , and a long way down the lane .
And this light , burst on a certain person who , on the instant , approach towards it through the gloom , express the whole thing to him , literally in a twinkling , and cry , `` Welcome home , old fellow !
Welcome home , my boy ! ''
This end attain , the kettle , be dead beat , boil over , and be take off the fire .
Mrs. Peerybingle then go run to the door , where , what with the wheel of a cart , the tramp of a horse , the voice of a man , the tearing in and out of an excited dog , and the surprising and mysterious appearance of a baby , there be soon the very What 's - his-name to play .
Where the baby come from , or how Mrs. Peerybingle get hold of it in that flash of time , I do n't know .
But a live baby there be in Mrs. Peerybingle 's arm ; and a pretty tolerable amount of pride she seem to have in it , when she be draw gently to the fire , by a sturdy figure of a man , much taller and much old than herself , who have to stoop a long way down to kiss her .
But she be worth the trouble .
Six foot six , with the lumbago , might have do it .
`` Oh goodness , John ! ''
say Mrs. P. `` What a state you 're in with the weather ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` A dot and '' -- here he glance at the baby -- `` a dot and carry -- I wo n't say it , for fear I should spoil it ; but I be very near a joke . ''
-RSB- He be something the bad for it undeniably .
The thick mist hung in clot upon his eyelash like candied thaw ; and , between the fog and fire together , there be rainbow in his very whisker .
`` Why , you see , Dot , '' John make answer slowly , a he unroll a shawl from about his throat , and warm his hand ; `` it -- it a n't exactly summer weather .
So no wonder . ''
`` I wish you would n't call me Dot , John .
I do n't like it , '' say Mrs. Peerybingle : pouting in a way that clearly show she do like it very much .
`` Why , what else be you ? ''
return John , look down upon her with a smile , and give her waist a light a squeeze a his huge hand and arm could give .
`` A dot and '' -- here he glance at the baby -- `` a dot and carry -- I wo n't say it , for fear I should spoil it ; but I be very near a joke .
I do n't know a ever I be nearer . ''
He be often near to something or other very clever , by his own account : this lumbering , slow , honest John ; this John so heavy , but so light of spirit ; so rough upon the surface , but so gentle at the core ; so dull without , so quick within ; so stolid , but so good !
Oh , Mother Nature , give thy child the true poetry of heart that hide itself in this poor Carrier 's breast -- he be but a Carrier , by the way -- and we can bear to have them talk prose , and lead life of prose ; and bear to bless thee for their company !
It be pleasant to see Dot , with her little figure and her baby in her arm : a very doll of a baby : glancing with a coquettish thoughtfulness at the fire , and incline her delicate little head just enough on one side to let it rest in an odd , half-natural , half-affected , wholly nestle and agreeable manner , on the great rugged figure of the Carrier .
It be pleasant to see him , with his tender awkwardness , endeavour to adapt his rude support to her slight need , and make his burly middle age a leaning-staff not inappropriate to her blooming youth .
It be pleasant to observe how Tilly Slowboy , wait in the background for the baby , take special cognizance -LRB- though in her early teens -RRB- of this grouping ; and stand with her mouth and eye wide open , and her head thrust forward , take it in a if it be air .
Nor be it less agreeable to observe how John the Carrier , reference be make by Dot to the aforesaid baby , check his hand when on the point of touch the infant , a if he think he might crack it ; and , bend down , survey it from a safe distance , with a kind of puzzled pride , such a an amiable mastiff might be suppose to show if he find himself , one day , the father of a young canary .
`` A n't he beautiful , John ?
Do n't he look precious in his sleep ? ''
`` Very precious , '' say John .
`` Very much so .
He generally be asleep , a n't he ? ''
`` Lor , John !
Good gracious , no ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
say John , pondering .
`` I think his eye be generally shut .
Halloa ! ''
`` Goodness , John , how you startle one ! ''
`` It a n't right for him to turn 'em up in that way , '' say the astonish Carrier , `` be it ?
See how he 's wink with both of 'em at once !
and look at his mouth !
Why , he 's gasp like a gold and silver fish ! ''
`` You do n't deserve to be a father , you do n't , '' say Dot , with all the dignity of an experienced matron .
`` But how should you know what little complaint child be trouble with , John ?
You would n't so much a know their name , you stupid fellow . ''
And when she have turn the baby over on her left arm , and have slap it back a a restorative , she pinch her husband 's ear , laugh .
`` No , '' say John , pull off his outer coat .
`` It 's very true , Dot .
I do n't know much about it .
I only know that I 've be fight pretty stiffly with the wind to-night .
It 's be blow north-east , straight into the cart , the whole way home . ''
`` Poor old man , so it have ! ''
cried Mrs. Peerybingle , instantly become very active .
`` Here , take the precious darling , Tilly , while I make myself of some use .
Bless it , I could smother it with kiss it , I could !
Hie then , good dog !
Hie , Boxer , boy !
Only let me make the tea first , John ; and then I 'll help you with the parcel , like a busy bee .
` How doth the little ' -- and all the rest of it , you know , John .
Did you ever learn ` How doth the little , ' when you go to school , John ? ''
`` Not to quite know it , '' John return .
`` I be very near it once .
But I should only have spoil it , I dare say . ''
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laugh Dot .
She have the blithe little laugh you ever hear .
`` What a dear old darling of a dunce you be , John , to be sure ! ''
Not at all dispute this position , John go out to see that the boy with the lantern , which have be dance to and fro before the door and window , like a Will of the Wisp , take due care of the horse ; who be fat than you would quite believe , if I give you his measure , and so old that his birthday be lose in the mist of antiquity .
Boxer , feel that his attention be due to the family in general , and must be impartially distribute , dash in and out with bewildering inconstancy ; now describe a circle of short bark round the horse , where he be be rub down at the stable door ; now feign to make savage rush at his mistress , and facetiously bring himself to sudden stop ; now elicit a shriek from Tilly Slowboy , in the low nursing-chair near the fire , by the unexpected application of his moist nose to her countenance ; now exhibit an obtrusive interest in the baby ; now go round and round upon the hearth , and lie down as if he have establish himself for the night ; now get up again , and take that nothing of a fag-end of a tail of his out into the weather , a if he have just remember an appointment , and be off at a round trot , to keep it .
`` There !
There 's the teapot , ready on the hob ! ''
say Dot ; a briskly busy a a child at play at keep house .
`` And there 's the cold knuckle of ham ; and there 's the butter ; and there 's the crusty loaf , and all !
Here 's a clothes basket for the small parcel , John , if you 've get any there .
Where be you , John ?
Do n't let the dear child fall under the grate , Tilly , whatever you do ! ''
It may be note of Miss Slowboy , in spite of her reject the caution with some vivacity , that she have a rare and surprising talent for get this baby into difficulty : and have several time imperilled it short life in a quiet way peculiarly her own .
She be of a spare and straight shape , this young lady , insomuch that her garment appear to be in constant danger of slide off those sharp peg , her shoulder , on which they be loosely hung .
Her costume be remarkable for the partial development , on all possible occasion , of some flannel vestment of a singular structure ; also for afford glimpse , in the region of the back , of a corset , or a pair of stay , in colour a dead green .
Being always in a state of gap admiration at everything , and absorb , besides , in the perpetual contemplation of her mistress 's perfection and the baby 's , Miss Slowboy , in her little error of judgment , may be say to have do equal honour to her head and to her heart ; and though these do less honour to the baby 's head , which they be the occasional mean of bring into contact with deal door , dresser , stair-rails , bed-posts , and other foreign substance , still they be the honest result of Tilly Slowboy 's constant astonishment at find herself so kindly treat , and instal in such a comfortable home .
For the maternal and paternal Slowboy be alike unknown to Fame , and Tilly have be breed by public charity , a foundling ; which word , though only differ from fondle by one vowel 's length , be very different in meaning , and express quite another thing .
To have see little Mrs. Peerybingle come back with her husband , tug at the clothes basket , and make the most strenuous exertion to do nothing at all -LRB- for he carry it -RRB- , would have amuse you almost as much a it amuse him .
It may have entertain the Cricket , too , for anything I know ; but , certainly , it now begin to chirp again vehemently .
-LSB- Illustration : Tilly Slowboy .
-RSB- `` Heyday ! ''
say John in his slow way .
`` It 's merry than ever to-night , I think . ''
`` And it 's sure to bring u good fortune , John !
It always have do so .
To have a Cricket on the Hearth be the lucky thing in all the world ! ''
John look at her a if he have very nearly get the thought into his head that she be his Cricket in chief , and he quite agree with her .
But it be probably one of his narrow escape , for he say nothing .
`` The first time I hear it cheerful little note , John , be on that night when you bring me home -- when you bring me to my new home here ; it little mistress .
Nearly a year ago .
You recollect , John ? ''
Oh , yes !
John remember .
I should think so !
`` Its chirp be such a welcome to me !
It seem so full of promise and encouragement .
It seem to say , you would be kind and gentle with me , and would not expect -LRB- I have a fear of that , John , then -RRB- to find an old head on the shoulder of your foolish little wife . ''
John thoughtfully pat one of the shoulder , and then the head , a though he would have say No , no ; he have have no such expectation ; he have be quite content to take them a they be .
And really he have reason .
They be very comely .
`` It speak the truth , John , when it seem to say so : for you have ever be , I be sure , the best , the most considerate , the most affectionate of husband to me .
This have be a happy home , John ; and I love the Cricket for it sake ! ''
`` Why , so do I , then , '' say the Carrier .
`` So do I , Dot . ''
`` I love it for the many time I have hear it , and the many thought it harmless music have give me .
Sometimes , in the twilight , when I have felt a little solitary and down-hearted , John -- before baby be here , to keep me company and make the house gay -- when I have think how lonely you would be if I should die ; how lonely I should be , if I could know that you have lose me , dear ; it Chirp , Chirp , Chirp upon the hearth have seem to tell me of another little voice , so sweet , so very dear to me , before whose come sound my trouble vanish like a dream .
And when I use to fear -- I do fear once , John ; I be very young , you know -- that ours might prove to be an ill-assorted marriage , I be such a child , and you more like my guardian than my husband ; and that you might not , however hard you try , be able to learn to love me , a you hop and pray you might ; it Chirp , Chirp , Chirp have cheer me up again , and fill me with new trust and confidence .
I be think of these thing to-night , dear , when I sit expect you ; and I love the Cricket for their sake ! ''
`` And so do I , '' repeat John .
`` But , Dot !
I hope and pray that I might learn to love you ?
How you talk !
I have learnt that long before I bring you here , to be the Cricket 's little mistress , Dot ! ''
She lay her hand , an instant , on his arm , and look up at him with an agitated face , a if she would have tell him something .
Next moment , she be down upon her knee before the basket ; speak in a sprightly voice , and busy with the parcel .
`` There be not many of them to-night , John , but I saw some good behind the cart just now ; and though they give more trouble , perhaps , still they pay as well ; so we have no reason to grumble , have we ?
Besides , you have be deliver , I dare say , a you come along ? ''
`` Oh , yes ! ''
John say .
`` A good many . ''
`` Why , what 's this round box ?
Heart alive , John , it 's a wedding-cake ! ''
`` Leave a woman alone to find out that , '' say John admiringly .
`` Now , a man would never have think of it !
Whereas , it 's my belief that if you be to pack a wedding-cake up in a tea-chest , or a turn-up bedstead , or a pickled-salmon keg , or any unlikely thing , a woman would be sure to find it out directly .
Yes ; I call for it at the pastrycook 's . ''
`` And it weigh I do n't know what -- whole hundredweight ! ''
cry Dot , make a great demonstration of try to lift it .
`` Whose be it , John ?
Where be it go ? ''
`` Read the writing on the other side , '' say John .
`` Why , John !
My Goodness , John ! ''
`` Ah !
who 'd have think it ? ''
John return .
`` You never mean to say , '' pursue Dot , sit on the floor and shake her head at him , `` that it 's Gruff and Tackleton the toymaker ! ''
John nod .
Mrs. Peerybingle nod also , fifty time at least .
Not in assent -- in dumb and pitying amazement ; screw up her lip , the while , with all their little force -LRB- they be never make for screw up ; I be clear of that -RRB- , and look the good Carrier through and through , in her abstraction .
Miss Slowboy , in the meantime , who have a mechanical power of reproduce scrap of current conversation for the delectation of the baby , with all the sense strike out of them , and all the noun change into the plural number , inquired aloud of that young creature , Was it Gruffs and Tackletons the toymakers then , and Would it call at Pastrycooks for wedding-cakes , and Did it mother know the box when it father bring them home ; and so on .
`` And that be really to come about ! ''
say Dot .
`` Why , she and I be girl at school together , John . ''
He might have be think of her , or nearly thinking of her , perhaps , a she be in that same school-time .
He look upon her with a thoughtful pleasure , but he make no answer .
`` And he 's a old !
As unlike her !
-- Why , how many year old than you be Gruff and Tackleton , John ? ''
`` How many more cup of tea shall I drink to-night , at one sit , than Gruff and Tackleton ever take in four , I wonder ? ''
reply John good-humouredly , a he draw a chair to the round table , and begin at the cold ham .
`` As to eat , I eat but little ; but that little I enjoy , Dot . ''
Even this , his usual sentiment at meal-times , one of his innocent delusion -LRB- for his appetite be always obstinate , and flatly contradict him -RRB- , awake no smile in the face of his little wife , who stand among the parcel , push the cake-box slowly from her with her foot , and never once look , though her eye be cast down too , upon the dainty shoe she generally be so mindful of .
Absorbed in thought , she stand there , heedless alike of the tea and John -LRB- although he call to her and rap the table with his knife to startle her -RRB- , until he rise and touch her on the arm ; when she look at him for a moment , and hurry to her place behind the tea-board , laugh at her negligence .
But not a she have laugh before .
The manner and the music be quite change .
The Cricket , too , have stop .
Somehow , the room be not so cheerful a it have be .
Nothing like it .
`` So , these be all the parcel , be they , John ? ''
she say , break a long silence , which the honest Carrier have devote to the practical illustration of one part of his favourite sentiment -- certainly enjoy what he ate , if it could n't be admit that he eat but little .
`` So these be all the parcel , be they , John ? ''
`` That 's all , '' say John .
`` Why -- no -- I '' -- lay down his knife and fork , and take a long breath -- `` I declare -- I 've clean forget the old gentleman ! ''
`` The old gentleman ? ''
`` In the cart , '' say John .
`` He be asleep among the straw , the last time I saw him .
I 've very nearly remember him , twice , since I come in ; but he go out of my head again .
Halloa !
Yahip there !
Rouse up !
That 's my hearty ! ''
John say these latter word outside the door , whither he have hurry with the candle in his hand .
Miss Slowboy , conscious of some mysterious reference to The Old Gentleman , and connecting , in her mystified imagination , certain association of a religious nature with the phrase , be so disturbed , that hastily rise from the low chair by the fire to seek protection near the skirt of her mistress , and come into contact , a she cross the doorway , with an ancient Stranger , she instinctively make a charge or butt at him with the only offensive instrument within her reach .
This instrument happen to be the baby , great commotion and alarm ensued , which the sagacity of Boxer rather tend to increase ; for that good dog , more thoughtful than his master , have , it seem , be watch the old gentleman in his sleep , lest he should walk off with a few young poplar-trees that be tie up behind the cart ; and he still attend on him very closely , worry his gaiter , in fact , and make dead set at the button .
`` You 're such an undeniably good sleeper , sir , '' say John , when tranquillity be restore -LRB- in the meantime the old gentleman have stand , bareheaded and motionless , in the centre of the room -RRB- , `` that I have half a mind to ask you where the other six be -- only that would be a joke , and I know I should spoil it .
Very near , though , '' murmur the Carrier with a chuckle ; `` very near ! ''
The Stranger , who have long white hair , good feature , singularly bold and well define for an old man , and dark , bright , penetrate eye , look round with a smile , and salute the Carrier 's wife by gravely incline his head .
His garb be very quaint and odd -- a long , long way behind the time .
Its hue be brown , all over .
In his hand he hold a great brown club or walking-stick ; and , strike this upon the floor , it fell asunder , and become a chair .
On which he sit down quite composedly .
`` There ! ''
say the Carrier , turn to his wife .
`` That 's the way I find him , sit by the roadside !
Upright a a milestone .
And almost a deaf . ''
`` Sitting in the open air , John ? ''
`` In the open air , '' reply the Carrier , `` just at dusk .
` Carriage Paid , ' he say ; and give me eighteen-pence .
Then he get in .
And there he be . ''
`` He 's go , John , I think ! ''
Not at all .
He be only go to speak .
`` If you please , I be to be leave till call for , '' say the Stranger mildly .
`` Do n't mind me . ''
With that he take a pair of spectacle from one of his large pocket , and a book from another , and leisurely begin to read .
Making no more of Boxer than if he have be a house lamb !
The Carrier and his wife exchange a look of perplexity .
The Stranger raise his head ; and , glance from the latter to the former , say : `` Your daughter , my good friend ? ''
`` Wife , '' return John .
`` Niece ? ''
say the Stranger .
`` Wife ! ''
roar John .
`` Indeed ? ''
observe the Stranger .
`` Surely ?
Very young ! ''
He quietly turn over , and resume his reading .
But , before he could have read two line , he again interrupt himself to say : `` Baby yours ? ''
John give him a gigantic nod : equivalent to an answer in the affirmative , deliver through a speaking trumpet .
`` Girl ? ''
`` Bo-o-oy ! ''
roar John .
`` Also very young , eh ? ''
Mrs. Peerybingle instantly strike in .
`` Two month and three da-ays .
Vaccinated just six week ago-o !
Took very fine-ly !
Considered , by the doctor , a remarkably beautiful chi-ild !
Equal to the general run of child at five month o-ld !
Takes notice in a way quite wonder-ful !
May seem impossible to you , but feel his legs al-ready ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` That 's the way I find him , sit by the roadside !
Upright a a milestone . ''
-RSB- Here , the breathless little mother , who have be shriek these short sentence into the old man 's ear , until her pretty face be crimson , hold up the Baby before him a a stubborn and triumphant fact ; while Tilly Slowboy , with a melodious cry of `` Ketcher , Ketcher '' -- which sound like some unknown word , adapt to a popular Sneeze -- perform some cow-like gambol around that all unconscious Innocent .
`` Hark !
He 's call for , sure enough , '' say John .
`` There 's somebody at the door .
Open it , Tilly . ''
Before she could reach it , however , it be open from without ; be a primitive sort of door , with a latch that any one could lift if he choose -- and a good many people do choose , for all kind of neighbour like to have a cheerful word or two with the Carrier , though he be no great talker himself .
Being open , it give admission to a little , meagre , thoughtful , dingy-faced man , who seem to have make himself a great-coat from the sackcloth covering of some old box ; for , when he turn to shut the door and keep the weather out , he disclose upon the back of that garment the inscription G & T in large black capital .
Also the word GLASS in bold character .
`` Good evening , John ! ''
say the little man .
`` Good evening , mum !
Good evening , Tilly !
Good evening , Unbeknown !
How 's Baby , mum ?
Boxer 's pretty well I hope ? ''
`` All thriving , Caleb , '' reply Dot .
`` I be sure you need only look at the dear child , for one , to know that . ''
`` And I 'm sure I need only look at you for another , '' say Caleb .
He do n't look at her , though ; he have a wandering and thoughtful eye , which seem to be always project itself into some other time and place , no matter what he say ; a description which will equally apply to his voice .
`` Or at John for another , '' say Caleb .
`` Or at Tilly , as far a that go .
Or certainly at Boxer . ''
`` Busy just now , Caleb ? ''
ask the Carrier .
`` Why , pretty well , John , '' he return , with the distraught air of a man who be cast about for the Philosopher 's stone , at least .
`` Pretty much so .
There 's rather a run on Noah 's Arks at present .
I could have wish to improve on the Family , but I do n't see how it 's to be do at the price .
It would be a satisfaction to one 's mind to make it clear which be Shems and Hams , and which be Wives .
Flies a n't on that scale , neither , a compare with elephant , you know !
Ah , well !
Have you get anything in the parcel line for me , John ? ''
The Carrier put his hand into a pocket of the coat he have take off ; and bring out , carefully preserve in moss and paper , a tiny flower-pot .
`` There it be ! ''
he say , adjust it with great care .
`` Not so much a a leaf damage .
Full of bud ! ''
Caleb 's dull eye brighten a he take it , and thank him .
`` Dear , Caleb , '' say the Carrier .
`` Very dear at this season . ''
`` Never mind that .
It would be cheap to me , what ever it cost , '' return the little man .
`` Anything else , John ? ''
`` A small box , '' reply the Carrier .
`` Here you be ! '' ''
` For Caleb Plummer , ' '' say the little man , spell out the direction . ''
` With Cash . '
With Cash , John ?
I do n't think it 's for me . ''
`` With Care , '' return the Carrier , look over his shoulder .
`` Where do you make out cash ? ''
`` Oh !
To be sure ! ''
say Caleb .
`` It 's all right .
With care !
Yes , yes ; that 's mine .
It might have be with cash , indeed , if my dear Boy in the Golden South Americas have live , John .
You love him like a son ; do n't you ?
You need n't say you do .
I know , of course .
` Caleb Plummer .
With care . '
Yes , yes , it 's all right .
It 's a box of doll ' eye for my daughter ' work .
I wish it be her own sight in a box , John . ''
`` I wish it be , or could be ! ''
cry the Carrier .
`` Thankee , '' say the little man .
`` You speak very hearty .
To think that she should never see the Dolls -- and them a staring at her , so bold , all day long !
That 's where it cut .
What 's the damage , John ? ''
`` I 'll damage you , '' say John , `` if you inquire .
Dot !
Very near ? ''
`` Well !
it 's like you to say so , '' observe the little man .
`` It 's your kind way .
Let me see .
I think that 's all . ''
`` I think not , '' say the Carrier .
`` Try again . ''
`` Something for our Governor , eh ? ''
say Caleb after ponder a little while .
`` To be sure .
That 's what I come for ; but my head 's so run on them Arks and thing !
He have n't be here , have he ? ''
`` Not he , '' return the Carrier .
`` He 's too busy , court . ''
`` He 's come round , though , '' say Caleb ; `` for he tell me to keep on the near side of the road go home , and it be ten to one he 'd take me up .
I have well go , by-the-bye .
-- You could n't have the goodness to let me pinch Boxer 's tail , mum , for half a moment , could you ? ''
`` Why , Caleb , what a question ! ''
`` Oh , never mind , mum ! ''
say the little man .
`` He might n't like it , perhaps .
There 's a small order just come in for bark dog ; and I should wish to go as close to Natur ' a I could for sixpence .
That 's all .
Never mind , mum . ''
It happen opportunely that Boxer , without receive the propose stimulus , begin to bark with great zeal .
But , a this imply the approach of some new visitor , Caleb , postpone his study from the life to a more convenient season , shoulder the round box , and take a hurried leave .
He might have spar himself the trouble , for he meet the visitor upon the threshold .
`` Oh !
You be here , be you ?
Wait a bit .
I 'll take you home .
John Peerybingle , my service to you .
More of my service to your pretty wife .
Handsomer every day !
Better too , if possible !
And young , '' muse the speaker in a low voice , `` that 's the devil of it ! ''
`` I should be astonish at your pay compliment , Mr. Tackleton , '' say Dot , not with the best grace in the world , `` but for your condition . ''
`` You know all about it , then ? ''
`` I have get myself to believe it somehow , '' say Dot .
`` After a hard struggle , I suppose ? ''
`` Very . ''
Tackleton the Toy merchant , pretty generally know a Gruff and Tackleton -- for that be the firm , though Gruff have be buy out long ago ; only leave his name , and , a some say , his nature , accord to it Dictionary meaning , in the business -- Tackleton the Toy merchant be a man whose vocation have be quite misunderstand by his Parents and Guardians .
If they have make him a Money Lender , or a sharp Attorney , or a Sheriff 's Officer , or a Broker , he might have sow his discontented oat in his youth , and , after have have the full run of himself in ill-natured transaction , might have turn out amiable , at last , for the sake of a little freshness and novelty .
But , cramp and chafe in the peaceable pursuit of toymaking , he be a domestic Ogre , who have be live on child all his life , and be their implacable enemy .
He despise all toy ; would n't have buy one for the world ; delight , in his malice , to insinuate grim expression into the face of brown-paper farmer who drive pig to market , bellman who advertise lose lawyer ' conscience , movable old lady who darn stocking or carved pie ; and other like sample of his stock-in-trade .
In appal mask ; hideous , hairy , red-eyed Jacks in Boxes ; Vampire Kites ; demoniacal Tumblers who would n't lie down , and be perpetually fly forward , to stare infant out of countenance ; his soul perfectly revel .
They be his only relief , and safety-valve .
He be great in such invention .
Anything suggestive of a Pony nightmare be delicious to him .
He have even lose money -LRB- and he take to that toy very kindly -RRB- by get up Goblin slide for magic lantern , whereon the Powers of Darkness be depict a a sort of supernatural shell-fish , with human face .
In intensify the portraiture of Giants , he have sink quite a little capital ; and , though no painter himself , he could indicate , for the instruction of his artist , with a piece of chalk , a certain furtive leer for the countenance of those monster , which be safe to destroy the peace of mind of any young gentleman between the age of six and eleven , for the whole Christmas or Midsummer Vacation .
What he be in toy , he be -LRB- a most men be -RRB- in other thing .
You may easily suppose , therefore , that within the great green cape , which reach down to the calf of his leg , there be button up to the chin an uncommonly pleasant fellow ; and that he be about a choice a spirit , and a agreeable a companion , a ever stand in a pair of bull-headed-looking boot with mahogany-coloured top .
Still , Tackleton , the toy merchant , be go to be marry .
In spite of all this , he be go to be marry .
And to a young wife too , a beautiful young wife .
He do n't look much like a Bridegroom , a he stand in the Carrier 's kitchen , with a twist in his dry face , and a screw in his body , and his hat jerk over the bridge of his nose , and his hand tuck down into the bottom of his pocket , and his whole sarcastic , ill-conditioned self peer out of one little corner of one little eye , like the concentrated essence of any number of raven .
But a Bridegroom he design to be .
`` In three day ' time .
Next Thursday .
The last day of the first month in the year .
That 's my wedding-day , '' say Tackleton .
Did I mention that he have always one eye wide open , and one eye nearly shut ; and that the one eye nearly shut be always the expressive eye ?
I do n't think I do .
`` That 's my wedding-day ! ''
say Tackleton , rattle his money .
`` Why , it 's our wedding-day too , '' exclaim the Carrier .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laugh Tackleton .
`` Odd !
You 're just such another couple .
Just ! ''
The indignation of Dot at this presumptuous assertion be not to be describe .
What next ?
His imagination would compass the possibility of just such another Baby , perhaps .
The man be mad .
`` I say !
A word with you , '' murmur Tackleton , nudge the Carrier with his elbow , and take him a little apart .
`` You 'll come to the wedding ?
We 're in the same boat , you know . ''
`` How in the same boat ? ''
inquire the Carrier .
`` A little disparity , you know , '' say Tackleton with another nudge .
`` Come and spend an evening with u beforehand . ''
`` Why ? ''
demand John , astonish at this press hospitality .
`` Why ? ''
return the other .
`` That 's a new way of receive an invitation .
Why , for pleasure -- sociability , you know , and all that . ''
`` I think you be never sociable , '' say John in his plain way .
`` Tchah !
It 's of no use to be anything but free with you , I see , '' say Tackleton .
`` Why , then , the truth be , you have a -- what tea-drinking people call a sort of a comfortable appearance together , you and your wife .
We know well , you know , but -- '' `` No , we do n't know good , '' interpose John .
`` What be you talk about ? ''
`` Well !
We do n't know good , then , '' say Tackleton .
`` We 'll agree that we do n't .
As you like ; what do it matter ?
I be go to say , a you have that sort of appearance , your company will produce a favourable effect on Mrs. Tackleton that will be .
And , though I do n't think your good lady 's very friendly to me in this matter , still she ca n't help herself from fall into my view , for there 's a compactness and cosiness of appearance about her that always tell , even in an indifferent case .
You 'll say you 'll come ? ''
`` We have arrange to keep our Wedding-day -LRB- as far a that go -RRB- at home , '' say John .
`` We have make the promise to ourselves these six month .
We think , you see , that home -- '' `` Bah !
what 's home ? ''
cry Tackleton .
`` Four wall and a ceiling !
-LRB- Why do n't you kill that Cricket ?
I would !
I always do .
I hate their noise . -RRB-
There be four wall and a ceiling at my house .
Come to me ! ''
`` You kill your Crickets , eh ? ''
say John .
`` Scrunch 'em , sir , '' return the other , set his heel heavily on the floor .
`` You 'll say you 'll come ?
It 's as much your interest a mine , you know , that the woman should persuade each other that they 're quiet and content , and could n't be good off .
I know their way .
Whatever one woman say , another woman be determine to clinch always .
There 's that spirit of emulation among 'em , sir , that if your wife say to my wife , ` I 'm the happy woman in the world , and mine 's the best husband in the world , and I dote on him , ' my wife will say the same to yours , or more , and half believe it . ''
`` Do you mean to say she do n't , then ? ''
ask the Carrier .
`` Do n't ! ''
cry Tackleton with a short , sharp laugh .
`` Do n't what ? ''
The Carrier have some faint idea of add , `` dote upon you . ''
But , happen to meet the half-closed eye , a it twinkle upon him over the turned-up collar of the cape , which be within an ace of poke it out , he felt it such an unlikely part and parcel of anything to be dot on , that he substitute , `` that she do n't believe it ? ''
`` Ah , you dog !
You 're joke , '' say Tackleton .
But the Carrier , though slow to understand the full drift of his meaning , eye him in such a serious manner , that he be oblige to be a little more explanatory .
`` I have the humour , '' say Tackleton : hold up the finger of his left hand , and tap the forefinger , to imply , `` There I be , Tackleton to wit '' : `` I have the humour , sir , to marry a young wife , and a pretty wife '' : here he rap his little finger , to express the Bride ; not sparingly , but sharply ; with a sense of power .
`` I 'm able to gratify that humour , and I do .
It 's my whim .
But -- now look there ! ''
He point to where Dot be sit , thoughtfully before the fire : lean her dimpled chin upon her hand , and watch the bright blaze .
The Carrier look at her , and then at him , and then at her , and then at him again .
`` She honour and obeys , no doubt , you know , '' say Tackleton ; `` and that , a I be not a man of sentiment , be quite enough for me .
But do you think there 's anything more in it ? ''
`` I think , '' observe the Carrier , `` that I should chuck any man out of window who say there be n't . ''
`` Exactly so , '' return the other with an unusual alacrity of assent .
`` To be sure !
Doubtless you would .
Of course .
I 'm certain of it .
Good night .
Pleasant dream ! ''
The Carrier be puzzle , and make uncomfortable and uncertain , in spite of himself .
He could n't help show it in his manner .
`` Good night , my dear friend ! ''
say Tackleton compassionately .
`` I 'm off .
We 're exactly alike in reality , I see .
You wo n't give u to-morrow evening ?
Well !
Next day you go out visiting , I know .
I 'll meet you there , and bring my wife that be to be .
It 'll do her good .
You 're agreeable ?
Thankee .
What 's that ? ''
It be a loud cry from the Carrier 's wife : a loud , sharp , sudden cry , that make the room ring like a glass vessel .
She have rise from her seat , and stand like one transfixed by terror and surprise .
The Stranger have advance towards the fire to warm himself , and stand within a short stride of her chair .
But quite still .
`` Dot ! ''
cry the Carrier .
`` Mary !
Darling !
What 's the matter ? ''
They be all about her in a moment .
Caleb , who have be doze on the cake-box , in the first imperfect recovery of his suspended presence of mind , seize Miss Slowboy by the hair of her head , but immediately apologise .
`` Mary ! ''
exclaim the Carrier , support her in his arm .
`` Are you ill ?
What be it ?
Tell me dear ! ''
She only answer by beat her hand together , and fall into a wild fit of laughter .
Then , sink from his grasp upon the ground , she cover her face with her apron , and weep bitterly .
And then , she laugh again , and then she cry again , and then she say how cold she be , and suffer him to lead her to the fire , where she sit down a before .
The old man standing , a before , quite still .
`` I 'm well , John , '' she say .
`` I 'm quite well now -- I -- '' `` John ! ''
But John be on the other side of her .
Why turn her face towards the strange old gentleman , a if address him .
Was her brain wandering ?
`` Only a fancy , John dear -- a kind of shock -- a something come suddenly before my eye -- I do n't know what it be .
It 's quite go , quite go . ''
`` I 'm glad it 's go , '' mutter Tackleton , turn the expressive eye all round the room .
`` I wonder where it 's go , and what it be .
Humph !
Caleb , come here !
Who 's that with the grey hair ? ''
`` I do n't know , sir , '' return Caleb in a whisper .
`` Never see him before in all my life .
A beautiful figure for a nut-cracker ; quite a new model .
With a screw-jaw open down into his waistcoat , he 'd be lovely . ''
`` Not ugly enough , '' say Tackleton .
`` Or for a fire-box either , '' observe Caleb in deep contemplation , `` what a model !
Unscrew his head to put the match in ; turn him heel up ` ards for the light ; and what a fire-box for a gentleman 's mantel-shelf , just a he stand ! ''
`` Not half ugly enough , '' say Tackleton .
`` Nothing in him at all .
Come !
Bring that box !
All right now , I hope ? ''
`` Oh , quite go !
Quite go ! ''
say the little woman , wave him hurriedly away .
`` Good night ! ''
`` Good night ! ''
say Tackleton .
`` Good night , John Peerybingle !
Take care how you carry that box , Caleb .
Let it fall , and I 'll murder you !
Dark a pitch , and weather bad than ever , eh ?
Good night ! ''
So , with another sharp look round the room , he go out at the door ; follow by Caleb with the wedding-cake on his head .
The Carrier have be so much astound by his little wife , and so busily engage in soothe and tend her , that he have scarcely be conscious of the Stranger 's presence until now , when he again stand there , their only guest .
`` He do n't belong to them , you see , '' say John .
`` I must give him a hint to go . ''
`` I beg your pardon , friend , '' say the old gentleman , advance to him ; `` the more so a I fear your wife have not be well ; but the Attendant whom my infirmity , '' he touch his ear , and shake his head , `` render almost indispensable , not have arrive , I fear there must be some mistake .
The bad night which make the shelter of your comfortable cart -LRB- may I never have a bad ! -RRB-
so acceptable , be still as bad a ever .
Would you , in your kindness , suffer me to rent a bed here ? ''
`` Yes , yes , '' cry Dot .
`` Yes !
Certainly ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
say the Carrier , surprise by the rapidity of this consent .
`` Well !
I do n't object ; but still I 'm not quite sure that -- '' `` Hush ! ''
she interrupt .
`` Dear John ! ''
`` Why , he 's stone deaf , '' urge John .
`` I know he be , but -- Yes , sir , certainly .
Yes , certainly !
I 'll make him up a bed directly , John . ''
As she hurry off to do it , the flutter of her spirit , and the agitation of her manner , be so strange , that the Carrier stand look after her , quite confound .
`` Did it mother make it up a Beds , then ! ''
cry Miss Slowboy to the Baby ; `` and do it hair grow brown and curly when it cap be lift off , and frighten it , a precious Pets , a sitting by the fire ! ''
With that unaccountable attraction of the mind to trifle , which be often incidental to a state of doubt and confusion , the Carrier , a he walk slowly to and fro , find himself mentally repeat even these absurd word , many time .
So many time , that he get them by heart , and be still con them over and over , like a lesson , when Tilly , after administer as much friction to the little bald head with her hand a she think wholesome -LRB- accord to the practice of nurse -RRB- , have once more tied the Baby 's cap on .
`` And frighten it , a precious Pets , a sitting by the fire .
What frighten Dot , I wonder ? ''
muse the Carrier , pace to and fro .
He scout , from his heart , the insinuation of the toy merchant , and yet they fill him with a vague , indefinite uneasiness .
For Tackleton be quick and sly ; and he have that painful sense , himself , of be a man of slow perception , that a broken hint be always worry to him .
He certainly have no intention in his mind of link anything that Tackleton have say with the unusual conduct of his wife , but the two subject of reflection come into his mind together , and he could not keep them asunder .
The bed be soon make ready ; and the visitor , decline all refreshment but a cup of tea , retire .
Then , Dot -- quite well again , she say , quite well again -- arrange the great chair in the chimney-corner for her husband ; fill his pipe and give it him ; and take her usual little stool beside him on the hearth .
She always would sit on that little stool .
I think she must have have a kind of notion that it be a coaxing , wheedle little stool .
She be , out and out , the very best filler of a pipe , I should say , in the four quarter of the globe .
To see her put that chubby little finger in the bowl , and then blow down the pipe to clear the tube , and , when she have do so , affect to think that there be really something in the tube , and blow a dozen time , and hold it to her eye like a telescope , with a most provoking twist in her capital little face , a she look down it , be quite a brilliant thing .
As to the tobacco , she be perfect mistress of the subject ; and her lighting of the pipe , with a wisp of paper , when the Carrier have it in his mouth -- go so very near his nose , and yet not scorch it -- be Art , high Art .
And the Cricket and the Kettle , turn up again , acknowledge it !
The bright fire , blaze up again , acknowledge it !
The little Mower on the clock , in his unheeded work , acknowledge it !
The Carrier , in his smooth forehead and expand face , acknowledge it , the readiest of all .
And a he soberly and thoughtfully puff at his old pipe , and a the Dutch clock tick , and a the red fire gleam , and a the Cricket chirp , that Genius of his Hearth and Home -LRB- for such the Cricket be -RRB- come out , in fairy shape , into the room , and summon many form of Home about him .
Dots of all age and all size fill the chamber .
Dots who be merry child , run on before him , gather flower in the field ; coy Dots , half shrink from , half yielding to , the pleading of his own rough image ; newly-married Dots , alight at the door , and take wonder possession of the household key ; motherly little Dots , attend by fictitious Slowboys , bear baby to be christen ; matronly Dots , still young and blooming , watch Dots of daughter , a they dance at rustic ball ; fat Dots , encircle and beset by troop of rosy grandchild ; wither Dots , who lean on stick , and totter a they creep along .
Old Carriers , too , appear with blind old Boxers lie at their foot ; and new cart with young driver -LRB- `` Peerybingle Brothers '' on the tilt -RRB- ; and sick old Carriers , tend by the gentle hand ; and graf of dead and go old Carriers , green in the churchyard .
And a the Cricket show him all these thing -- he saw them plainly , though his eye be fix upon the fire -- the Carrier 's heart grow light and happy , and he thank his Household Gods with all his might , and care no more for Gruff and Tackleton than you do .
* * * * * But what be that young figure of a man , which the same Fairy Cricket set so near Her stool , and which remain there , singly and alone ?
Why do it linger still , so near her , with it arm upon the chimney-piece , ever repeat `` Married !
and not to me ! ''
Oh , Dot !
Oh , fail Dot !
There be no place for it in all your husband 's vision .
Why have it shadow fall on his hearth ?
CHIRP THE SECOND Caleb Plummer and his Blind Daughter live all alone by themselves , a the Story Books say -- and my blessing , with yours , to back it I hope , on the Story Books , for say anything in this work-a-day world !
-- Caleb Plummer and his Blind Daughter live all alone by themselves , in a little cracked nutshell of a wooden house , which be , in truth , no good than a pimple on the prominent red-brick nose of Gruff and Tackleton .
The premise of Gruff and Tackleton be the great feature of the street ; but you might have knock down Caleb Plummer 's dwell with a hammer or two , and carry off the piece in a cart .
If any one have do the dwelling-house of Caleb Plummer the honour to miss it after such an inroad , it would have be , no doubt , to commend it demolition a a vast improvement .
It stick to the premise of Gruff and Tackleton like a barnacle to a ship 's keel , or a snail to a door , or a little bunch of toadstool to the stem of a tree .
But it be the germ from which the full-grown trunk of Gruff and Tackleton have spring ; and , under it crazy roof , the Gruff before last have , in a small way , make toy for a generation of old boy and girl , who have play with them , and find them out , and break them , and go to sleep .
I have say that Caleb and his poor Blind Daughter live here .
I should have say that Caleb live here , and his poor Blind Daughter somewhere else -- in an enchanted home of Caleb 's furnishing , where scarcity and shabbiness be not , and trouble never enter .
Caleb be no sorcerer ; but in the only magic art that still remain to u , the magic of devote , deathless love , Nature have be the mistress of his study ; and , from her teaching , all the wonder come .
The Blind Girl never know that ceiling be discolour , wall blotch and bare of plaster here and there , high crevice unstopped and widen every day , beam mouldering and tend downward .
The Blind Girl never know that iron be rust , wood rotting , paper peel off ; the size , and shape , and true proportion of the dwelling , wither away .
The Blind Girl never know that ugly shape of delf and earthenware be on the board ; that sorrow and faint-heartedness be in the house ; that Caleb 's scanty hair be turn greyer and more grey before her sightless face .
The Blind Girl never know they have a master , cold , exact , and uninterested -- never know that Tackleton be Tackleton , in short ; but live in the belief of an eccentric humorist , who love to have his jest with them , and who , while he be the Guardian Angel of their life , disdain to hear one word of thankfulness .
And all be Caleb 's do ; all the do of her simple father !
But he , too , have a Cricket on his Hearth ; and listen sadly to it music when the motherless Blind Child be very young that Spirit have inspire him with the thought that even her great deprivation might be almost change into a blessing , and the girl make happy by these little mean .
For all the Cricket tribe be potent Spirits , even though the people who hold converse with them do not know it -LRB- which be frequently the case -RRB- , and there be not in the unseen world voice more gentle and more true , that may be so implicitly rely on , or that be so certain to give none but tender counsel , a the Voices in which the Spirits of the Fireside and the Hearth address themselves to humankind .
Caleb and his daughter be at work together in their usual working-room , which serve them for their ordinary living-room a well ; and a strange place it be .
There be house in it , finish and unfinished , for Dolls of all station in life .
Suburban tenement for Dolls of moderate mean ; kitchen and single apartment for Dolls of the low class ; capital town residence for Dolls of high estate .
Some of these establishment be already furnish accord to estimate , with a view to the convenience of Dolls of limited income ; others could be fit on the most expensive scale , at a moment 's notice , from whole shelf of chair and table , sofa , bedstead , and upholstery .
The nobility and gentry and public in general , for whose accommodation these tenement be design , lay here and there , in basket , star straight up at the ceiling ; but in denote their degree in society , and confine them to their respective station -LRB- which experience show to be lamentably difficult in real life -RRB- , the maker of these Dolls have far improve on Nature , who be often froward and perverse ; for they , not rest on such arbitrary mark a satin , cotton print , and bit of rag , have superadded striking personal difference which allow of no mistake .
Thus , the Doll-lady of distinction have wax limb of perfect symmetry ; but only she and her compeer .
The next grade in the social scale be make of leather , and the next of coarse linen stuff .
As to the common people , they have just so many match out of tinder-boxes for their arm and leg , and there they be -- establish in their sphere at once , beyond the possibility of get out of it .
There be various other sample of his handicraft besides Dolls in Caleb Plummer 's room .
There be Noah 's ark , in which the Birds and Beasts be an uncommonly tight fit , I assure you ; though they could be cram in , anyhow , at the roof , and rattle and shake into the small compass .
By a bold poetical licence , most of these Noah 's ark have knocker on the door ; inconsistent appendage , perhaps , a suggestive of morning caller and a Postman , yet a pleasant finish to the outside of the building .
There be score of melancholy little cart , which , when the wheel go round , perform most doleful music .
Many small fiddle , drum , and other instrument of torture ; no end of cannon , shield , sword , spear , and gun .
There be little tumbler in red breech , incessantly swarm up high obstacle of red tape , and come down , head first , on the other side ; and there be innumerable old gentleman of respectable , not to say venerable appearance , insanely fly over horizontal peg , insert , for the purpose , in their own street-doors .
There be beast of all sort ; horse , in particular , of every breed , from the spot barrel on four peg with a small tippet for a mane , to the thorough-bred rocker on his high mettle .
As it would have be hard to count the dozen upon dozen of grotesque figure that be ever ready to commit all sort of absurdity on the turning of a handle , so it would have be no easy task to mention any human folly , vice , or weakness that have not it type , immediate or remote , in Caleb Plummer 's room .
And not in an exaggerated form , for very little handle will move men and woman to a strange performance a any Toy be ever make to undertake .
In the midst of all these object , Caleb and his daughter sit at work .
The Blind Girl busy a a Doll 's dressmaker ; Caleb painting and glaze the four-pair front of a desirable family mansion .
The care imprint in the line of Caleb 's face , and his absorbed and dreamy manner , which would have sit well on some alchemist or abstruse student , be at first sight an odd contrast to his occupation and the triviality about him .
But trivial thing , invent and pursue for bread , become very serious matter of fact : and , apart from this consideration , I be not at all prepared to say , myself , that if Caleb have be a Lord Chamberlain , or a Member of Parliament , or a lawyer , or even a great speculator , he would have deal in toys one whit le whimsical , while I have a very great doubt whether they would have be a harmless .
`` So you be out in the rain last night , father , in your beautiful new great-coat , '' say Caleb 's daughter .
`` In my beautiful new great-coat , '' answer Caleb , glance towards a clothes-line in the room , on which the sackcloth garment previously describe be carefully hang up to dry .
`` How glad I be you buy it , father ! ''
`` And of such a tailor too , '' say Caleb .
`` Quite a fashionable tailor .
It 's too good for me . ''
The Blind Girl rest from her work , and laugh with delight .
`` Too good , father !
What can be too good for you ? ''
`` I 'm half ashamed to wear it , though , '' say Caleb , watch the effect of what he say upon her brightening face , `` upon my word !
When I hear the boy and people say behind me , ` Halloa !
Here 's a swell ! '
I do n't know which way to look .
And when the beggar would n't go away last night ; and , when I say I be a very common man , say , ` No , your Honour !
Bless your Honour , do n't say that ! '
I be quite ashamed .
I really felt a if I have n't a right to wear it . ''
Happy Blind Girl !
How merry she be in her exultation !
`` I see you , father , '' she say , clasp her hand , `` as plainly a if I have the eye I never want when you be with me .
A blue coat -- '' `` Bright blue , '' say Caleb .
`` Yes , yes !
Bright blue ! ''
exclaim the girl , turn up her radiant face ; `` the colour I can just remember in the blessed sky !
You tell me it be blue before !
A bright blue coat -- '' `` Made loose to the figure , '' suggest Caleb .
`` Yes !
loose to the figure ! ''
cry the Blind Girl , laugh heartily ; `` and in it , you , dear father , with your merry eye , your smile face , your free step , and your dark hair -- look so young and handsome ! ''
`` Halloa !
Halloa ! ''
say Caleb .
`` I shall be vain presently ! '' ''
I think you be already , '' cry the Blind Girl , point at him in her glee .
`` I know you , father !
Ha , ha , ha !
I 've find you out , you see ! ''
How different the picture in her mind , from Caleb , a he sit observe her !
She have speak of his free step .
She be right in that .
For year and year he have never once cross that threshold at his own slow pace , but with a footfall counterfeit for her ear ; and never have he , when his heart be heavy , forget the light tread that be to render hers so cheerful and courageous !
Heaven know !
But I think Caleb 's vague bewilderment of manner may have half originate in his have confuse himself about himself and everything around him , for the love of his Blind Daughter .
How could the little man be otherwise than bewilder , after labour for so many year to destroy his own identity , and that of all the object that have any bearing on it ?
`` There we be , '' say Caleb , fall back a pace or two to form the good judgment of his work ; `` a near the real thing a sixpenn ` orth of halfpenny be to sixpence .
What a pity that the whole front of the house open at once !
If there be only a staircase in it now , and regular door to the room to go in at !
But that 's the bad of my call , I 'm always delude myself , and swindle myself . ''
`` You be speak quite softly .
You be not tire , father ? ''
`` Tired ! ''
echoed Caleb with a great burst of animation .
`` What should tire me , Bertha ?
I be never tire .
What do it mean ? ''
To give the great force to his word , he check himself in an involuntary imitation of two half-length stretching and yawning figure on the mantel-shelf , who be represent a in one eternal state of weariness from the waist upwards ; and hum a fragment of a song .
It be a Bacchanalian song , something about a Sparkling Bowl .
He sing it with an assumption of a Devil-may-care voice , that make his face a thousand time more meagre and more thoughtful than ever .
`` What !
You 're sing , be you ? ''
say Tackleton , put his head in at the door .
`` Go it !
I ca n't sing . ''
Nobody would have suspect him of it .
He have n't what be generally term a singing face , by any mean .
`` I ca n't afford to sing , '' say Tackleton .
`` I 'm glad you can .
I hope you can afford to work too .
Hardly time for both , I should think ? ''
`` If you could only see him , Bertha , how he 's wink at me ! ''
whisper Caleb .
`` Such a man to joke !
You 'd think , if you do n't know him , he be in earnest -- would n't you now ? ''
The Blind Girl smile and nod .
`` The bird that can sing and wo n't sing must be make to sing , they say , '' grumble Tackleton .
`` What about the owl that ca n't sing , and ought n't to sing , and will sing ; be there anything that he should be make to do ? ''
`` The extent to which he 's wink at this moment ! ''
whisper Caleb to his daughter .
`` Oh , my gracious ! ''
`` Always merry and light-hearted with u ! ''
cry the smile Bertha .
`` Oh !
you 're there , be you ? ''
answer Tackleton .
`` Poor Idiot ! ''
He really do believe she be an Idiot ; and he found the belief , I ca n't say whether consciously or not , upon her be fond of him .
`` Well !
and be there , -- how be you ? ''
say Tackleton in his grudging way .
`` Oh !
well ; quite well !
And as happy a even you can wish me to be .
As happy a you would make the whole world , if you could ! ''
`` Poor Idiot ! ''
mutter Tackleton .
`` No gleam of reason .
Not a gleam ! ''
The Blind Girl take his hand and kiss it ; hold it for a moment in her own two hand ; and lay her cheek against it tenderly before release it .
There be such unspeakable affection and such fervent gratitude in the act , that Tackleton himself be move to say , in a milder growl than usual : `` What 's the matter now ? ''
`` I stand it close beside my pillow when I go to sleep last night , and remember it in my dream .
And when the day break , and the glorious red sun -- the red sun , father ? ''
`` Red in the morning and the evening , Bertha , '' say poor Caleb with a woeful glance at his employer .
`` When it rise , and the bright light I almost fear to strike myself against in walking , come into the room , I turn the little tree towards it , and bless Heaven for make thing so precious , and bless you for send them to cheer me ! ''
`` Bedlam break loose ! ''
say Tackleton under his breath .
`` We shall arrive at the strait-waistcoat and muffler soon .
We 're get on ! ''
Caleb , with his hand hook loosely in each other , star vacantly before him while his daughter speak , a if he really be uncertain -LRB- I believe he be -RRB- whether Tackleton have do anything to deserve her thanks or not .
If he could have be a perfectly free agent at that moment , require , on pain of death , to kick the toy merchant , or fall at his foot , accord to his merit , I believe it would have be an even chance which course he would have take .
Yet Caleb know that with his own hand he have bring the little rose-tree home for her so carefully , and that with his own lip he have forge the innocent deception which should help to keep her from suspect how much , how very much , he every day deny himself , that she might be happy .
`` Bertha ! ''
say Tackleton , assume , for the nonce , a little cordiality .
`` Come here . ''
`` Oh , I can come straight to you !
You need n't guide me ! ''
she rejoin .
`` Shall I tell you a secret , Bertha ? ''
`` If you will ! ''
she answer eagerly .
How bright the darkened face !
How adorned with light the listening head !
`` This be the day on which little what 's - her-name , the spoilt child , Peerybingle 's wife , pay her regular visit to you -- make her fantastic Picnic here , a n't it ? ''
say Tackleton with a strong expression of distaste for the whole concern .
`` Yes , '' reply Bertha .
`` This be the day . ''
`` I think so , '' say Tackleton .
`` I should like to join the party . ''
`` Do you hear that , father ? ''
cry the Blind Girl in an ecstasy .
`` Yes , yes , I hear it , '' murmur Caleb with the fixed look of a sleep-walker ; `` but I do n't believe it .
It 's one of my lie , I 've no doubt . ''
`` You see I -- I want to bring the Peerybingles a little more into company with May Fielding , '' say Tackleton .
`` I 'm go to be marry to May . ''
`` Married ! ''
cry the Blind Girl , start from him .
`` She 's such a con-founded idiot , '' mutter Tackleton , `` that I be afraid she 'd never comprehend me .
Ah , Bertha !
Married !
Church , parson , clerk , beadle , glass coach , bell , breakfast , bridecake , favour , marrow-bones , cleaver , and all the rest of the tomfoolery .
A wedding , you know ; a wedding .
Do n't you know what a wedding be ? ''
`` I know , '' reply the Blind Girl in a gentle tone .
`` I understand ! ''
`` Do you ? ''
mutter Tackleton .
`` It 's more than I expect .
Well !
On that account I want to join the party , and to bring May and her mother .
I 'll send in a little something or other , before the afternoon .
A cold leg of mutton , or some comfortable trifle of that sort .
You 'll expect me ? ''
`` Yes , '' she answer .
She have droop her head , and turn away ; and so stand , with her hand cross , muse .
`` I do n't think you will , '' mutter Tackleton , look at her ; `` for you seem to have forget all about it already .
Caleb ! ''
`` I may venture to say I 'm here , I suppose , '' think Caleb .
`` Sir ! ''
`` Take care she do n't forget what I 've be say to her . '' ''
She never forgets , '' return Caleb .
`` It 's one of the few thing she a n't clever in . ''
`` Every man think his own geese swan , '' observe the toy merchant with a shrug .
`` Poor devil ! ''
Having deliver himself of which remark with infinite contempt , old Gruff and Tackleton withdraw .
Bertha remain where he have leave her , lose in meditation .
The gaiety have vanish from her downcast face , and it be very sad .
Three or four time she shake her head , a if bewail some remembrance or some loss ; but her sorrowful reflection find no vent in word .
It be not until Caleb have be occupy some time in yoke a team of horse to a waggon by the summary process of nail the harness to the vital part of their body , that she draw near to his working-stool , and , sit down beside him , say : `` Father , I be lonely in the dark .
I want my eye , my patient , willing eye . ''
`` Here they be , '' say Caleb .
`` Always ready .
They be more yours than mine , Bertha , any hour in the four-and-twenty .
What shall your eye do for you , dear ? ''
`` Look round the room , father . ''
`` All right , '' say Caleb .
`` No sooner say than do , Bertha . ''
`` Tell me about it . ''
`` It 's much the same a usual , '' say Caleb .
`` Homely , but very snug .
The gay colour on the wall ; the bright flower on the plate and dish ; the shin wood , where there be beam or panel ; the general cheerfulness and neatness of the building , -- make it very pretty . ''
Cheerful and neat it be , wherever Bertha 's hand could busy themselves .
But nowhere else be cheerfulness and neatness possible in the old crazy shed which Caleb 's fancy so transformed .
`` You have your work dress on , and be not so gallant a when you wear the handsome coat ? ''
say Bertha , touch him .
`` Not quite so gallant , '' answer Caleb .
`` Pretty brisk , though . ''
`` Father , '' say the Blind Girl , draw close to his side , and steal one arm round his neck , `` tell me something about May .
She be very fair ? ''
`` She be indeed , '' say Caleb .
And she be indeed .
It be quite a rare thing to Caleb not to have to draw on his invention .
`` Her hair be dark , '' say Bertha pensively , `` darker than mine .
Her voice be sweet and musical , I know .
I have often love to hear it .
Her shape -- '' `` There 's not a Doll 's in all the room to equal it , '' say Caleb .
`` And her eye !
-- '' He stop ; for Bertha have draw closer round his neck , and , from the arm that clung about him , come a warning pressure which he understand too well .
He cough a moment , hammer for a moment , and then fell back upon the song about the sparkling bowl , his infallible resource in all such difficulty .
`` Our friend , father , our benefactor .
I be never tire , you know , of hear about him .
-- Now , be I ever ? ''
she say hastily .
`` Of course not , '' answer Caleb , `` and with reason . ''
`` Ah !
With how much reason ! ''
cry the Blind Girl .
With such fervency , that Caleb , though his motif be so pure , could not endure to meet her face ; but drop his eye , a if she could have read in them his innocent deceit .
`` Then tell me again about him , dear father , '' say Bertha .
`` Many time again !
His face be benevolent , kind , and tender .
Honest and true , I be sure it be .
The manly heart that try to cloak all favour with a show of roughness and unwillingness , beat in it every look and glance . ''
`` And make it noble , '' add Caleb in his quiet desperation .
`` And make it noble , '' cry the Blind Girl .
`` He be old than May , father . ''
`` Ye-es , '' say Caleb reluctantly .
`` He 's a little old than May .
But that do n't signify . ''
`` Oh , father , yes !
To be his patient companion in infirmity and age ; to be his gentle nurse in sickness , and his constant friend in suffer and sorrow ; to know no weariness in work for his sake ; to watch him , tend him , sit beside his bed and talk to him awake , and pray for him asleep ; what privilege these would be !
What opportunities for prove all her truth and her devotion to him !
Would she do all this , dear father ? ''
`` No doubt of it , '' say Caleb .
`` I love her , father ; I can love her from my soul ! ''
exclaim the Blind Girl .
And , say so , she lay her poor blind face on Caleb 's shoulder , and so wept and wept , that he be almost sorry to have bring that tearful happiness upon her .
In the meantime there have be a pretty sharp commotion at John Peerybingle 's , for little Mrs. Peerybingle naturally could n't think of go anywhere without the Baby ; and to get the Baby under way take time .
Not that there be much of the Baby , speaking of it a a thing of weight and measure , but there be a vast deal to do about and about it , and it all have to be do by easy stage .
For instance , when the Baby be get , by hook and by crook , to a certain point of dressing , and you might have rationally suppose that another touch or two would finish him off , and turn him out a tiptop Baby challenge the world , he be unexpectedly extinguish in a flannel cap , and hustle off to bed ; where he simmer -LRB- so to speak -RRB- between two blanket for the best part of an hour .
From this state of inaction he be then recall , shin very much and roar violently , to partake of -- well ?
I would rather say , if you 'll permit me to speak generally -- of a slight repast .
After which he go to sleep again .
Mrs. Peerybingle take advantage of this interval , to make herself a smart in a small way a ever you saw anybody in all your life ; and , during the same short truce , Miss Slowboy insinuate herself into a spencer of a fashion so surprising and ingenious , that it have no connection with herself , or anything else in the universe , but be a shrunken , dog 's - eared , independent fact , pursue it lonely course without the least regard to anybody .
By this time , the Baby , be all alive again , be invest , by the united effort of Mrs. Peerybingle and Miss Slowboy , with a cream-coloured mantle for it body , and a sort of nankeen raise pie for it head ; and so , in course of time , they all three get down to the door , where the old horse have already take more than the full value of his day 's toll out of the Turnpike Trust , by tear up the road with his impatient autograph ; and whence Boxer might be dimly see in the remote perspective , stand look back , and tempt him to come on without order .
As to a chair , or anything of that kind for help Mrs. Peerybingle into the cart , you know very little of John , if you think that be necessary .
Before you could have see him lift her from the ground , there she be in her place , fresh and rosy , say , `` John !
How can you ?
Think of Tilly ! ''
If I might be allow to mention a young lady 's leg on any term , I would observe of Miss Slowboy 's that there be a fatality about them which render them singularly liable to be graze ; and that she never effect the small ascent or descent without record the circumstance upon them with a notch , a Robinson Crusoe mark the day upon his wooden calendar .
But , a this might be consider ungenteel , I 'll think of it .
`` John !
You 've get the basket with the Veal and Ham Pie and thing , and the bottle of Beer ? ''
say Dot .
`` If you have n't you must turn round again this very minute . ''
`` You 're a nice little article , '' return the Carrier , `` to be talk about turn round , after keep me a full quarter of an hour behind my time . ''
`` I be sorry for it , John , '' say Dot in a great bustle , `` but I really could not think of go to Bertha 's -- I would not do it , John , on any account -- without the Veal and Ham Pie and thing , and the bottle of Beer .
Way ! ''
This monosyllable be address to the horse , who do n't mind it at all .
`` Oh , do way , John ! ''
say Mrs. Peerybingle .
`` Please ! ''
`` It 'll be time enough to do that , '' return John , `` when I begin to leave thing behind me .
The basket 's safe enough . ''
`` What a hard-hearted monster you must be , John , not to have say so at once , and save me such a turn !
I declare I would n't go to Bertha 's without the Veal and Ham Pie and thing , and the bottle of Beer , for any money .
Regularly once a fortnight ever since we have be marry , John , have we make our little Picnic there .
If anything be to go wrong with it , I should almost think we be never to be lucky again . ''
`` It be a kind thought in the first instance , '' say the Carrier ; `` and I honour you for it , little woman . ''
`` My dear John ! ''
reply Dot , turn very red .
`` Do n't talk about honour me .
Good gracious ! ''
`` By-the-bye '' -- observe the Carrier -- `` that old gentleman -- '' Again so visibly and instantly embarrass !
`` He 's an odd fish , '' say the Carrier , look straight along the road before them .
`` I ca n't make him out .
I do n't believe there 's any harm in him . ''
`` None at all .
I 'm -- I 'm sure there 's none at all . ''
`` Yes , '' say the Carrier , with his eye attract to her face by the great earnestness of her manner .
`` I be glad you feel so certain of it , because it 's a confirmation to me .
It 's curious that he should have take it into his head to ask leave to go on lodge with u ; a n't it ?
Things come about so strangely . ''
`` So very strangely , '' she rejoin in a low voice , scarcely audible .
`` However , he 's a good-natured old gentleman , '' say John , `` and pay a a gentleman , and I think his word be to be rely upon , like a gentleman 's .
I have quite a long talk with him this morning : he can hear me good already , he say , a he get more used to my voice .
He tell me a great deal about himself , and I tell him a good deal about myself , and a rare lot of question he ask me .
I give him information about my have two beat , you know , in my business ; one day to the right from our house and back again ; another day to the left from our house and back again -LRB- for he 's a stranger , and do n't know the name of place about here -RRB- ; and he seem quite pleased .
` Why , then I shall be return home to-night your way , ' he say , ` when I think you 'd be come in an exactly opposite direction .
That 's capital !
I may trouble you for another lift , perhaps , but I 'll engage not to fall so sound asleep again . '
He be sound asleep , sure-ly !
-- Dot !
what be you think of ? ''
`` Thinking of , John ?
I -- I be listen to you . ''
`` Oh !
That 's all right ! ''
say the honest Carrier .
`` I be afraid , from the look of your face , that I have go ramble on so long a to set you think about something else .
I be very near it , I 'll be bind . ''
Dot make no reply , they jog on , for some little time , in silence .
But , it be not easy to remain silent very long in John Peerybingle 's cart , for everybody on the road have something to say .
Though it might only be `` How be you ? ''
and , indeed , it be very often nothing else , still , to give that back again in the right spirit of cordiality , require , not merely a nod and a smile , but a wholesome an action of the lung withal a a long-winded Parliamentary speech .
Sometimes , passenger on foot , or horseback , plod on a little way beside the cart , for the express purpose of have a chat ; and then there be a great deal to be say on both side .
Then , Boxer give occasion to more good-natured recognition of , and by , the Carrier , than half-a-dozen Christians could have do !
Everybody know him all along the road -- especially the fowl and pig , who , when they saw him approach , with his body all on one side , and his ear prick up inquisitively , and that knob of a tail make the most of itself in the air , immediately withdraw into remote back-settlements , without wait for the honour of a near acquaintance .
He have business elsewhere ; go down all the turning , look into all the well , bolt in and out of all the cottage , dash into the midst of all the Dame Schools , flutter all the pigeon , magnify the tail of all the cat , and trot into the public-houses like a regular customer .
Wherever he go , somebody or other might have be hear to cry , `` Halloa !
here 's Boxer ! ''
and out come that somebody forthwith , accompany by at least two or three other somebody , to give John Peerybingle and his pretty wife Good day .
The package and parcel for the errand cart be numerous ; and there be many stoppage to take them in and give them out , which be not by any mean the bad part of the journey .
Some people be so full of expectation about their parcel , and other people be so full of wonder about their parcel , and other people be so full of inexhaustible direction about their parcel , and John have such a lively interest in all the parcel , that it be as good a a play .
Likewise , there be article to carry , which require to be consider and discuss , and in reference to the adjustment and disposition of which council have to be holden by the Carrier and the sender : at which Boxer usually assist , in short fit of the close attention , and long fit of tear round and round the assembled sage , and bark himself hoarse .
Of all these little incident , Dot be the amused and open-eyed spectatress from her chair in the cart ; and a she sit there , look on -- a charming little portrait frame to admiration by the tilt -- there be no lack of nudgings and glancings and whispering and envyings among the young men .
And this delighted John the Carrier beyond measure ; for he be proud to have his little wife admire , know that she do n't mind it -- that , if anything , she rather like it perhaps .
The trip be a little foggy , to be sure , in the January weather ; and be raw and cold .
But who care for such trifle ?
Not Dot , decidedly .
Not Tilly Slowboy , for she deem sit in a cart , on any term , to be the high point of human joy ; the crown circumstance of earthly hope .
Not the Baby , I 'll be swear ; for it 's not in Baby nature to be warm or more sound asleep , though it capacity be great in both respect , than that bless young Peerybingle be , all the way .
You could n't see very far in the fog , of course ; but you could see a great deal !
It 's astonish how much you may see in a thicker fog than that , if you will only take the trouble to look for it .
Why , even to sit watch for the Fairyrings in the field , and for the patch of hoar frost still linger in the shade , near hedge and by tree , be a pleasant occupation , to make no mention of the unexpected shape in which the tree themselves come start out of the mist , and glide into it again .
The hedge be tangle and bare , and wave a multitude of blighted garland in the wind ; but there be no discouragement in this .
It be agreeable to contemplate ; for it make the fireside warmer in possession , and the summer greener in expectancy .
The river look chilly ; but it be in motion , and move at a good pace -- which be a great point .
The canal be rather slow and torpid ; that must be admit .
Never mind .
It would freeze the sooner when the frost set fairly in , and then there would be skate and slide ; and the heavy old barge , freeze up somewhere near a wharf , would smoke their rusty iron chimney-pipes all day , and have a lazy time of it .
In one place there be a great mound of weed or stubble burning ; and they watch the fire , so white in the daytime , flare through the fog , with only here and there a dash of red in it , until , in consequence , a she observe , of the smoke `` get up her nose , '' Miss Slowboy choke -- she could do anything of that sort , on the small provocation -- and wake the Baby , who would n't go to sleep again .
But Boxer , who be in advance some quarter of a mile or so , have already pass the outpost of the town , and gain the corner of the street where Caleb and his daughter live ; and , long before they have reach the door , he and the Blind Girl be on the pavement wait to receive them .
Boxer , by the way , make certain delicate distinction of his own , in his communication with Bertha , which persuade me fully that he know her to be blind .
He never seek to attract her attention by look at her , a he often do with other people , but touch her invariably .
What experience he could ever have have of blind people or blind dog I do n't know .
He have never live with a blind master ; nor have Mr. Boxer the elder , nor Mrs. Boxer , nor any of his respectable family on either side , ever be visit with blindness , that I be aware of .
He may have find it out for himself , perhaps , but he have get hold of it somehow ; and therefore he have hold of Bertha too , by the skirt , and keep hold , until Mrs. Peerybingle and the Baby , and Miss Slowboy and the basket , be all get safely within door .
May Fielding be already come ; and so be her mother -- a little querulous chip of an old lady with a peevish face , who , in right of have preserve a waist like a bedpost , be suppose to be a most transcendent figure ; and who , in consequence of have once be good off , or of labour under an impression that she might have be , if something have happen which never do happen , and seem to have never be particularly likely to come to pass -- but it 's all the same -- be very genteel and patronise indeed .
Gruff and Tackleton be also there , do the agreeable , with the evident sensation of be a perfectly at home , and a unquestionably in his own element , a a fresh young salmon on the top of the Great Pyramid .
`` May !
My dear old friend ! ''
cry Dot , run up to meet her .
`` What a happiness to see you ! ''
Her old friend be , to the full , a hearty and as glad a she ; and it really be , if you 'll believe me , quite a pleasant sight to see them embrace .
Tackleton be a man of taste , beyond all question .
May be very pretty .
You know sometimes , when you be use to a pretty face , how , when it come into contact and comparison with another pretty face , it seem for the moment to be homely and fade , and hardly to deserve the high opinion you have have of it .
Now , this be not at all the case , either with Dot or May ; for May 's face set off Dot 's , and Dot 's face set off May 's , so naturally and agreeably , that , a John Peerybingle be very near say when he come into the room , they ought to have be bear sister -- which be the only improvement you could have suggest .
Tackleton have bring his leg of mutton , and , wonderful to relate , a tart besides -- but we do n't mind a little dissipation when our bride be in the case ; we do n't get married every day -- and , in addition to these dainty , there be the Veal and Ham Pie , and `` thing , '' a Mrs. Peerybingle call them ; which be chiefly nut and orange , and cake , and such small deer .
When the repast be set forth on the board , flank by Caleb 's contribution , which be a great wooden bowl of smoking potato -LRB- he be prohibit , by solemn compact , from produce any other viand -RRB- , Tackleton lead his intended mother-in-law to the post of honour .
For the good gracing of this place at the high festival , the majestic old soul have adorn herself with a cap , calculate to inspire the thoughtless with sentiment of awe .
She also wear her glove .
But let u be genteel , or die !
Caleb sit next his daughter ; Dot and her old schoolfellow be side by side ; the good Carrier take care of the bottom of the table .
Miss Slowboy be isolate , for the time be , from every article of furniture but the chair she sit on , that she might have nothing else to knock the Baby 's head against .
As Tilly star about her at the doll and toy , they star at her and at the company .
The venerable old gentleman at the street-doors -LRB- who be all in full action -RRB- show especial interest in the party , pause occasionally before leap , a if they be listen to the conversation , and then plunge wildly over and over , a great many time , without halt for breath -- a in a frantic state of delight with the whole proceeding .
Certainly , if these old gentleman be incline to have a fiendish joy in the contemplation of Tackleton 's discomfiture , they have good reason to be satisfy .
Tackleton could n't get on at all ; and the more cheerful his intended bride become in Dot 's society , the le he like it , though he have bring them together for that purpose .
For he be a regular dog in the manger , be Tackleton ; and , when they laugh and he could n't , he take it into his head , immediately , that they must be laugh at him .
`` Ah , May ! ''
say Dot .
`` Dear , dear , what change !
To talk of those merry school day make one young again . ''
`` Why , you a n't particularly old at any time , be you ? ''
say Tackleton .
`` Look at my sober , plod husband there , '' return Dot .
`` He add twenty year to my age at least .
Do n't you , John ? ''
`` Forty , '' John reply .
`` How many you 'll add to Mary 's , I be sure I do n't know , '' say Dot , laugh .
`` But she ca n't be much less than a hundred year of age on her next birthday . ''
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laugh Tackleton .
Hollow a a drum that laugh , though .
And he look a if he could have twist Dot 's neck comfortably .
`` Dear , dear ! ''
say Dot .
`` Only to remember how we use to talk , at school , about the husband we would choose .
I do n't know how young , and how handsome , and how gay , and how lively mine be not to be !
And a to May 's !
-- Ah dear !
I do n't know whether to laugh or cry , when I think what silly girls we be . ''
May seem to know which to do ; for the colour flash into her face , and tear stand in her eye .
`` Even the very person themselves -- real live young men -- we fix on sometimes , '' say Dot .
`` We little think how thing would come about .
I never fix on John , I 'm sure ; I never so much a thought of him .
And , if I have tell you you be ever to be marry to Mr. Tackleton , why , you 'd have slap me .
Would n't you , May ? ''
Though May do n't say yes , she certainly do n't say no , or express no , by any mean .
Tackleton laugh -- quite shout , he laugh so loud .
John Peerybingle laugh too , in his ordinary good-natured and contented manner ; but his be a mere whisper of a laugh to Tackleton 's .
`` You could n't help yourselves , for all that .
You could n't resist u , you see , '' say Tackleton .
`` Here we be !
Here we be !
Where be your gay young bridegroom now ? ''
`` Some of them be dead , '' say Dot ; `` and some of them forget .
Some of them , if they could stand among u at this moment , would not believe we be the same creature ; would not believe that what they saw and heard be real , and we could forget them so .
No !
they would not believe one word of it ! ''
`` Why , Dot ! ''
exclaim the Carrier .
`` Little woman ! ''
She have speak with such earnestness and fire , that she stand in need of some recall to herself , without doubt .
Her husband 's check be very gentle , for he merely interfere , a he suppose , to shield old Tackleton ; but it prove effectual , for she stop , and say no more .
There be an uncommon agitation , even in her silence , which the wary Tackleton , who have bring his half-shut eye to bear upon her , note closely , and remember to some purpose too .
May utter no word , good or bad , but sit quite still , with her eye cast down , and make no sign of interest in what have pass .
The good lady her mother now interpose , observe , in the first instance , that girl be girl , and bygone bygone , and that , so long a young people be young and thoughtless , they would probably conduct themselves like young and thoughtless person : with two or three other position of a no less sound and incontrovertible character .
She then remark , in a devout spirit , that she thank Heaven she have always find in her daughter May a dutiful and obedient child : for which she take no credit to herself , though she have every reason to believe it be entirely owe to herself .
With regard to Mr. Tackleton , she say , That he be in a moral point of view an undeniable individual , and That he be in an eligible point of view a son-in-law to be desire , no one in their sens could doubt .
-LRB- She be very emphatic here . -RRB-
With regard to the family into which he be so soon about , after some solicitation , to be admit , she believe Mr. Tackleton know that , although reduce in purse , it have some pretension to gentility ; and that if certain circumstance , not wholly unconnected , she would go so far a to say , with the Indigo Trade , but to which she would not more particularly refer , have happen differently , it might perhaps have be in possession of wealth .
She then remark that she would not allude to the past , and would not mention that her daughter have for some time reject the suit of Mr. Tackleton ; and that she would not say a great many other thing which she do say at great length .
Finally , she deliver it a the general result of her observation and experience , that those marriage in which there be least of what be romantically and sillily call love , be always the happiest ; and that she anticipate the great possible amount of bliss -- not rapturous bliss ; but the solid , steady-going article -- from the approach nuptials .
She conclude by inform the company that to-morrow be the day she have live for expressly ; and that , when it be over , she would desire nothing good than to be pack up and dispose of in any genteel place of burial .
As these remark be quite unanswerable -- which be the happy property of all remark that be sufficiently wide of the purpose -- they change the current of the conversation , and divert the general attention to the Veal and Ham Pie , the cold mutton , the potato , and the tart .
In order that the bottled beer might not be slight , John Peerybingle propose To-morrow : the Wedding-day ; and call upon them to drink a bumper to it , before he proceed on his journey .
For you ought to know that he only rest there , and give the old horse a bait .
He have to go some four or five mile far on ; and , when he return in the evening , he call for Dot , and take another rest on his way home .
This be the order of the day on all the Picnic occasion , and have be ever since their institution .
There be two person present , besides the bride and bridegroom elect , who do but indifferent honour to the toast .
One of these be Dot , too flushed and discompose to adapt herself to any small occurrence of the moment ; the other , Bertha , who rise up hurriedly before the rest , and leave the table .
`` Good-bye ! ''
say stout John Peerybingle , pull on his dreadnought coat .
`` I shall be back at the old time .
Good-bye all ! ''
`` Good-bye , John , '' return Caleb .
He seem to say it by rote , and to wave his hand in the same unconscious manner ; for he stand observe Bertha with an anxious wondering face , that never alter it expression .
`` Good-bye , young shaver ! ''
say the jolly Carrier , bend down to kiss the child ; which Tilly Slowboy , now intent upon her knife and fork , have deposit asleep -LRB- and , strange to say , without damage -RRB- in a little cot of Bertha 's furnishing ; `` good-bye !
Time will come , I suppose , when you 'll turn out into the cold , my little friend , and leave your old father to enjoy his pipe and his rheumatic in the chimney-corner ; eh ?
Where 's Dot ? ''
`` I 'm here , John ! ''
she say , start .
`` Come , come ! ''
return the Carrier , clap his sound hand .
`` Where 's the pipe ? ''
`` I quite forget the pipe , John . ''
Forgot the pipe !
Was such a wonder ever heard of ?
She !
Forgot the pipe !
`` I 'll -- I 'll fill it directly .
It 's soon do . ''
But it be not so soon do , either .
It lay in the usual place -- the Carrier 's dreadnought pocket -- with the little pouch , her own work , from which she be use to fill it ; but her hand shook so , that she entangle it -LRB- and yet her hand be small enough to have come out easily , I be sure -RRB- , and bungle terribly .
The filling of the pipe and light it , those little office in which I have commend her discretion , be vilely do from first to last .
During the whole process , Tackleton stand look on maliciously with the half-closed eye ; which , whenever it meet hers -- or catch it , for it can hardly be say to have ever meet another eye : rather be a kind of trap to snatch it up -- augment her confusion in a most remarkable degree .
`` Why , what a clumsy Dot you be this afternoon ! ''
say John .
`` I could have do it well myself , I verily believe ! ''
With these good-natured word , he stride away , and presently be hear , in company with Boxer , and the old horse , and the cart , make lively music down the road .
What time the dreamy Caleb still stand , watch his blind daughter , with the same expression on his face .
`` Bertha ! ''
say Caleb , softly .
`` What have happen ?
How change you be , my darling , in a few hour -- since this morning !
You silent and dull all day !
What be it ?
Tell me ! ''
`` Oh , father , father ! ''
cry the Blind Girl , burst into tear .
`` Oh , my hard , hard fate ! ''
Caleb draw his hand across his eye before he answer her .
`` But think how cheerful and how happy you have be , Bertha !
How good , and how much love , by many people . ''
`` That strike me to the heart , dear father !
Always so mindful of me !
Always so kind to me ! ''
Caleb be very much perplexed to understand her .
`` To be -- to be blind , Bertha , my poor dear , '' he falter , `` be a great affliction ; but -- '' `` I have never felt it ! ''
cry the Blind Girl .
`` I have never felt it in it fulness .
Never !
I have sometimes wish that I could see you , or could see him -- only once , dear father , only for one little minute -- that I might know what it be I treasure up , '' she lay her hand upon her breast , `` and hold here !
That I might be sure I have it right !
And sometimes -LRB- but then I be a child -RRB- I have weep in my prayer at night , to think that , when your image ascend from my heart to Heaven , they might not be the true resemblance of yourselves .
But I have never have these feeling long .
They have pass away , and leave me tranquil and content . ''
`` And they will again , '' say Caleb .
`` But , father !
Oh , my good gentle father , bear with me , if I be wicked ! ''
say the Blind Girl .
`` This be not the sorrow that so weigh me down ! ''
Her father could not choose but let his moist eye overflow ; she be so earnest and pathetic .
But he do not understand her yet .
`` Bring her to me , '' say Bertha .
`` I can not hold it close and shut within myself .
Bring her to me , father ! ''
She know he hesitate , and say , `` May .
Bring May ! ''
May hear the mention of her name , and , come quietly towards her , touch her on the arm .
The Blind Girl turn immediately , and hold her by both hand .
`` Look into my face , Dear heart , Sweet heart ! ''
say Bertha .
`` Read it with your beautiful eye , and tell me if the truth be write on it . ''
`` Dear Bertha , yes ! ''
The Blind Girl , still upturning the blank sightless face , down which the tear be course fast , address her in these word : `` There be not , in my soul , a wish or think that be not for your good , bright May !
There be not , in my soul , a grateful recollection strong than the deep remembrance which be store there of the many many time when , in the full pride of sight and beauty , you have have consideration for Blind Bertha , even when we two be child , or when Bertha be as much a child a ever blindness can be !
Every blessing on your head !
Light upon your happy course !
Not the le , my dear May , '' -- and she draw towards her in a close grasp , -- `` not the le , my bird , because , to-day , the knowledge that you be to be His wife have wring my heart almost to break !
Father , May , Mary !
Oh , forgive me that it be so , for the sake of all he have do to relieve the weariness of my dark life : and for the sake of the belief you have in me , when I call Heaven to witness that I could not wish him marry to a wife more worthy of his goodness ! ''
While speaking , she have release May Fielding 's hand , and clasp her garment in an attitude of mingled supplication and love .
Sinking lower and low down , a she proceed in her strange confession , she drop at last at the foot of her friend , and hide her blind face in the fold of her dress .
`` Great Power ! ''
exclaim her father , smite at one blow with the truth , `` have I deceive her from her cradle , but to break her heart at last ? ''
It be well for all of them that Dot , that beam , useful , busy little Dot -- for such she be , whatever fault she have , and however you may learn to hate her , in good time -- it be well for all of them , I say , that she be there , or where this would have end , it be hard to tell .
But Dot , recover her self-possession , interpose , before May could reply , or Caleb say another word .
`` Come , come , dear Bertha !
come away with me !
Give her your arm , May !
So .
How composed she be , you see , already ; and how good it be of her to mind u , '' say the cheery little woman , kiss her upon the forehead .
`` Come away , dear Bertha !
Come !
and here 's her good father will come with her , wo n't you , Caleb ?
To -- be -- sure ! ''
Well , well !
she be a noble little Dot in such thing , and it must have be an obdurate nature that could have withstand her influence .
When she have get poor Caleb and his Bertha away , that they might comfort and console each other , a she know they only could , she presently come bounce back , -- the saying be , as fresh a any daisy ; I say fresher -- to mount guard over that bridle little piece of consequence in the cap and glove , and prevent the dear old creature from make discovery .
`` So bring me the precious Baby , Tilly , '' say she , draw a chair to the fire ; `` and while I have it in my lap , here 's Mrs . Fielding , Tilly , will tell me all about the management of Babies , and put me right in twenty point where I 'm as wrong a can be .
Wo n't you , Mrs . Fielding ? ''
Not even the Welsh Giant , who , accord to the popular expression , be so `` slow '' a to perform a fatal surgical operation upon himself , in emulation of a juggling trick achieve by his arch enemy at breakfast-time ; not even he fell half so readily into the snare prepare for him a the old lady into this artful pitfall .
The fact of Tackleton have walk out ; and furthermore , of two or three people have be talk together at a distance , for two minute , leave her to her own resource ; be quite enough to have put her on her dignity , and the bewailment of that mysterious convulsion in the Indigo Trade , for four-and-twenty hour .
But this become deference to her experience , on the part of the young mother , be so irresistible , that after a short affectation of humility , she begin to enlighten her with the best grace in the world ; and , sit bolt upright before the wicked Dot , she do , in half an hour , deliver more infallible domestic recipe and precept than would -LRB- if act on -RRB- have utterly destroy and do up that Young Peerybingle , though he have be an Infant Samson .
To change the theme , Dot do a little needlework -- she carry the content of a whole workbox in her pocket ; however she contrive it , I do n't know -- then do a little nursing ; then a little more needlework ; then have a little whispering chat with May , while the old lady doze ; and so in little bit of bustle , which be quite her manner always , find it a very short afternoon .
Then , a it grow dark , and a it be a solemn part of this Institution of the Picnic that she should perform all Bertha 's household task , she trim the fire , and sweep the hearth , and set the tea-board out , and draw the curtain , and light a candle .
Then she play an air or two on a rude kind of harp , which Caleb have contrive for Bertha , and play them very well ; for Nature have make her delicate little ear a choice a one for music a it would have be for jewel , if she have have any to wear .
By this time it be the establish hour for have tea ; and Tackleton come back again to share the meal , and spend the evening .
Caleb and Bertha have return some time before , and Caleb have sit down to his afternoon 's work .
But he could n't settle to it , poor fellow , be anxious and remorseful for his daughter .
It be touch to see him sit idle on his work stool , regard her so wistfully , and always say in his face , `` Have I deceive her from her cradle , but to break her heart ? ''
When it be night , and tea be do , and Dot have nothing more to do in wash up the cup and saucer ; in a word -- for I must come to it , and there be no use in put it off -- when the time draw nigh for expect the Carrier 's return in every sound of distant wheel , her manner change again , her colour come and go , and she be very restless .
Not as good wife be when listen for their husband .
No , no , no .
It be another sort of restlessness from that .
Wheels heard .
A horse 's foot .
The barking of a dog .
The gradual approach of all the sound .
The scratch paw of Boxer at the door !
`` Whose step be that ? ''
cry Bertha , start up .
`` Whose step ? ''
return the Carrier , stand in the portal , with his brown face ruddy a a winter berry from the keen night air .
`` Why , mine . ''
`` The other step , '' say Bertha .
`` The man 's tread behind you ! ''
`` She be not to be deceive , '' observe the Carrier , laughing .
`` Come along , sir .
You 'll be welcome , never fear ! ''
He speak in a loud tone ; and , a he speak , the deaf old gentleman enter .
`` He 's not so much a stranger that you have n't see him once , Caleb , '' say the Carrier .
`` You 'll give him house room till we go ? ''
`` Oh , surely , John , and take it a an honour ! ''
`` He 's the best company on earth to talk secret in , '' say John .
`` I have reasonable good lung , but he try 'em I can tell you .
Sit down , sir .
All friend here , and glad to see you ! ''
When he have impart this assurance , in a voice that amply corroborate what he have say about his lung , he add in his natural tone , `` A chair in the chimney-corner , and leave to sit quite silent and look pleasantly about him , be all he care for .
He 's easily pleased . ''
Bertha have be listen intently .
She call Caleb to her side , when he have set the chair , and ask him , in a low voice , to describe their visitor .
When he have do so -LRB- truly now , with scrupulous fidelity -RRB- , she move , for the first time since he have come in , and sigh , and seem to have no further interest concern him .
The Carrier be in high spirit , good fellow that he be , and fonder of his little wife than ever .
`` A clumsy Dot she be , this afternoon ! ''
he say , encircle her with his rough arm , a she stand , remove from the rest ; `` and yet I like her somehow .
See yonder , Dot ! ''
He point to the old man .
She look down .
I think she tremble .
`` He 's -- ha , ha , ha !
-- he 's full of admiration for you ! ''
say the Carrier .
`` Talked of nothing else the whole way here .
Why , he 's a brave old boy !
I like him for it ! ''
`` I wish he have a well subject , John , '' she say with an uneasy glance about the room .
At Tackleton especially .
`` A good subject ! ''
cry the jovial John .
`` There 's no such thing .
Come !
off with the great-coat , off with the thick shawl , off with the heavy wrapper !
and a cosy half-hour by the fire .
My humble service , mistress .
A game at cribbage , you and I ?
That 's hearty .
The card and board , Dot .
And a glass of beer here , if there 's any left , small wife ! ''
His challenge be address to the old lady , who , accept it with gracious readiness , they be soon engage upon the game .
At first , the Carrier look about him sometimes with a smile , or now and then call Dot to peep over his shoulder at his hand , and advise him on some knotty point .
But his adversary be a rigid disciplinarian , and subject to an occasional weakness in respect of peg more than she be entitle to , require such vigilance on his part , a leave him neither eye nor ear to spare .
Thus , his whole attention gradually become absorbed upon the card ; and he think of nothing else , until a hand upon his shoulder restore him to a consciousness of Tackleton .
`` I be sorry to disturb you -- but a word directly . ''
`` I 'm go to deal , '' return the Carrier .
`` It 's a crisis . ''
`` It be , '' say Tackleton .
`` Come here , man ! ''
There be that in his pale face which make the other rise immediately , and ask him , in a hurry , what the matter be .
`` Hush !
John Peerybingle , '' say Tackleton , `` I be sorry for this .
I be indeed .
I have be afraid of it .
I have suspect it from the first . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask the Carrier with a frightened aspect .
`` Hush !
I 'll show you , if you 'll come with me . ''
The Carrier accompany him without another word .
They go across a yard , where the star be shin , and by a little side-door , into Tackleton 's own counting-house , where there be a glass window , command the ware-room , which be close for the night .
There be no light in the counting-house itself , but there be lamp in the long narrow ware-room ; and consequently the window be bright .
`` A moment ! ''
say Tackleton .
`` Can you bear to look through that window , do you think ? ''
`` Why not ? ''
return the Carrier .
`` A moment more , '' say Tackleton .
`` Do n't commit any violence .
It 's of no use .
It 's dangerous too .
You 're a strong-made man ; and you might do murder before you know it . ''
The Carrier look him in the face , and recoil a step a if he have be strike .
In one stride he be at the window , and he saw -- Oh , Shadow on the Hearth !
Oh , truthful Cricket !
Oh , perfidious wife !
He saw her with the old man -- old no longer , but erect and gallant -- bearing in his hand the false white hair that have win his way into their desolate and miserable home .
He saw her listen to him , a he bend his head to whisper in her ear ; and suffer him to clasp her round the waist , a they move slowly down the dim wooden gallery towards the door by which they have enter it .
He saw them stop , and saw her turn -- to have the face , the face he love so , so present to his view !
-- and saw her , with her own hand , adjust the lie upon his head , laugh , a she do it , at his unsuspicious nature !
He clench his strong right hand at first , a if it would have beat down a lion .
But , open it immediately again , he spread it out before the eye of Tackleton -LRB- for he be tender of her even then -RRB- , and so , a they pass out , fell down upon a desk , and be as weak a any infant .
He be wrap up to the chin , and busy with his horse and parcel , when she come into the room , prepare for go home .
`` Now , John dear !
Good night , May !
Good night , Bertha ! ''
Could she kiss them ?
Could she be blithe and cheerful in her parting ?
Could she venture to reveal her face to them without a blush ?
Yes .
Tackleton observe her closely , and she do all this .
Tilly be hush the baby , and she cross and recrossed Tackleton a dozen time , repeat drowsily : `` Did the knowledge that it be to be it wife , then , wring it heart almost to breaking ; and do it father deceive it from it cradle but to break it heart at last ! ''
`` Now , Tilly , give me the Baby !
Good night , Mr. Tackleton .
Where 's John , for goodness ' sake ? ''
`` He 's go to walk beside the horse 's head , '' say Tackleton ; who help her to her seat .
`` My dear John !
Walk ?
To-night ? ''
The muffled figure of her husband make a hasty sign in the affirmative ; and , the false stranger and the little nurse be in their place , the old horse move off .
Boxer , the unconscious Boxer , run on before , run back , run round and round the cart , and bark a triumphantly and merrily a ever .
When Tackleton have go off likewise , escort May and her mother home , poor Caleb sit down by the fire beside his daughter ; anxious and remorseful at the core ; and still say , in his wistful contemplation of her , `` Have I deceive her from her cradle , but to break her heart at last ? ''
The toy that have be set in motion for the Baby have all stop and run down long ago .
In the faint light and silence , the imperturbably calm doll , the agitated rocking-horses with distended eye and nostril , the old gentleman at the street-doors , stand half double up upon their failing knee and ankle , the wry-faced nut-crackers , the very Beasts upon their way into the Ark , in two , like a Boarding-School out walking , might have be imagine to be stricken motionless with fantastic wonder at Dot be false , or Tackleton beloved , under any combination of circumstance .
CHIRP THE THIRD The Dutch clock in the corner strike Ten when the Carrier sit down by his fireside .
So troubled and grief-worn that he seem to scare the Cuckoo , who , have cut his ten melodious announcement as short a possible , plunge back into the Moorish Palace again , and clap his little door behind him , a if the unwonted spectacle be too much for his feeling .
If the little Hay-maker have be arm with the sharp of scythe , and have cut at every stroke into the Carrier 's heart , he never could have gash and wound it a Dot have do .
It be a heart so full of love for her ; so bound up and hold together by innumerable thread of win remembrance , spun from the daily working of her many quality of endearment ; it be a heart in which she have enshrine herself so gently and so closely ; a heart so single and so earnest in it Truth , so strong in right , so weak in wrong , -- that it could cherish neither passion nor revenge at first , and have only room to hold the broken image of it Idol .
But , slowly , slowly , a the Carrier sit brood on his hearth , now cold and dark , other and fierce thought begin to rise within him , a an angry wind come rise in the night .
The Stranger be beneath his outraged roof .
Three step would take him to his chamber door .
One blow would beat it in .
`` You might do murder before you know it , '' Tackleton have say .
How could it be murder , if he give the villain time to grapple with him hand to hand ?
He be the young man .
It be an ill-timed thought , bad for the dark mood of his mind .
It be an angry thought , goad him to some avenge act , that should change the cheerful house into a haunt place which lonely traveller would dread to pass by night ; and where the timid would see shadow struggle in the ruined window when the moon be dim , and hear wild noise in the stormy weather .
He be the young man !
Yes , yes ; some lover who have win the heart that he have never touch .
Some lover of her early choice , of whom she have think and dream , for whom she have pin and pin , when he have fancy her so happy by his side .
Oh , agony to think of it !
She have be above-stairs with the Baby ; get it to bed .
As he sit brood on the hearth , she come close beside him , without his knowledge -- in the turning of the rack of his great misery , he lose all other sound -- and put her little stool at his foot .
He only know it when he felt her hand upon his own , and saw her look up into his face .
With wonder ?
No .
It be his first impression , and he be fain to look at her again , to set it right .
No , not with wonder .
With an eager and inquiring look ; but not with wonder .
At first it be alarm and serious ; then , it change into a strange , wild , dreadful smile of recognition of his thought ; then , there be nothing but her clasped hand on her brow , and her bent head , and fall hair .
Though the power of Omnipotence have be his to wield at that moment , he have too much of it diviner property of Mercy in his breast , to have turn one feather 's weight of it against her .
But he could not bear to see her crouch down upon the little seat where he have often look on her , with love and pride , so innocent and gay ; and , when she rise and leave him , sob a she go , he felt it a relief to have the vacant place beside him rather than her so long-cherished presence .
This in itself be anguish keen than all , remind him how desolate he be become , and how the great bond of his life be rent asunder .
-LSB- Illustration : When suddenly , the struggle fire illuminate the whole chimney with a glow of light ; and the Cricket on the Hearth begin to Chirp !
-RSB- The more he felt this , and the more he know he could have good borne to see her lie prematurely dead before him with her little child upon her breast , the high and the strong rise his wrath against his enemy .
He look about him for a weapon .
There be a gun hang on the wall .
He take it down , and move a pace or two towards the door of the perfidious Stranger 's room .
He know the gun be load .
Some shadowy idea that it be just to shoot this man like a wild beast seize him , and dilate in his mind until it grow into a monstrous demon in complete possession of him , cast out all milder thought , and set up it undivided empire .
That phrase be wrong .
Not cast out his milder thought , but artfully transform them .
Changing them into scourge to drive him on .
Turning water into blood , love into hate , gentleness into blind ferocity .
Her image , sorrow , humble , but still plead to his tenderness and mercy with resistless power , never leave his mind ; but , stay there , it urge him to the door ; raise the weapon to his shoulder ; fit and nerve his finger to the trigger ; and cry `` Kill him !
In his bed ! ''
He reverse the gun to beat the stock upon the door ; he already hold it lift in the air ; some indistinct design be in his thought of call out to him to fly , for God 's sake , by the window -- When suddenly , the struggle fire illuminate the whole chimney with a glow of light ; and the Cricket on the Hearth begin to Chirp !
No sound he could have hear , no human voice , not even hers , could so have move and soften him .
The artless word in which she have tell him of her love for this same Cricket be once more freshly spoken ; her trembling , earnest manner at the moment be again before him ; her pleasant voice -- oh , what a voice it be for make household music at the fireside of an honest man !
-- thrill through and through his good nature , and awake it into life and action .
He recoil from the door , like a man walk in his sleep , awaken from a frightful dream ; and put the gun aside .
Clasping his hand before his face , he then sit down again beside the fire , and find relief in tear .
The Cricket on the Hearth come out into the room , and stand in Fairy shape before him . '' '
I love it , ' '' say the Fairy Voice , repeat what he well remember , '' ` for the many time I have hear it , and the many thought it harmless music have give me . ' ''
`` She say so ! ''
cry the Carrier .
`` True ! '' ''
` This have be a happy home , John !
and I love the Cricket for it sake ! ' ''
`` It have be , Heaven know , '' return the Carrier .
`` She make it happy , always , -- until now . ''
`` So gracefully sweet-tempered ; so domestic , joyful , busy , and light-hearted ! ''
say the Voice .
`` Otherwise I never could have love her a I do , '' return the Carrier .
The Voice , correct him , say `` do . ''
The Carrier repeat `` a I do . ''
But not firmly .
His falter tongue resist his control , and would speak in it own way for itself and him .
The Figure , in an attitude of invocation , raise it hand and say : `` Upon your own hearth -- '' `` The hearth she have blight , '' interpose the Carrier .
`` The hearth she have -- how often !
-- bless and brighten , '' say the Cricket ; `` the hearth which , but for her , be only a few stone and brick and rusty bar , but which have be , through her , the Altar of your Home ; on which you have nightly sacrifice some petty passion , selfishness , or care , and offer up the homage of a tranquil mind , a trusting nature , and an overflowing heart ; so that the smoke from this poor chimney have go upward with a good fragrance than the rich incense that be burnt before the rich shrine in all the gaudy temple of this world !
-- Upon your own hearth ; in it quiet sanctuary ; surround by it gentle influence and association ; hear her !
Hear me !
Hear everything that speak the language of your hearth and home ! ''
`` And pleads for her ? ''
inquire the Carrier .
`` All thing that speak the language of your hearth and home must plead for her ! ''
return the Cricket .
`` For they speak the truth . ''
And while the Carrier , with his head upon his hand , continue to sit meditating in his chair , the Presence stand beside him , suggest his reflection by it power , and present them before him , a in a glass or picture .
It be not a solitary Presence .
From the hearth-stone , from the chimney , from the clock , the pipe , the kettle , and the cradle ; from the floor , the wall , the ceiling , and the stair ; from the cart without , and the cupboard within , and the household implement ; from everything and every place with which she have ever be familiar , and with which she have ever entwine one recollection of herself in her unhappy husband 's mind , -- Fairies come troop forth .
Not to stand beside him a the Cricket do , but to busy and bestir themselves .
To do all honour to her image .
To pull him by the skirt , and point to it when it appear .
To cluster round it , and embrace it , and strew flower for it to tread on .
To try to crown it fair head with their tiny hand .
To show that they be fond of it , and love it ; and that there be not one ugly , wicked , or accusatory creature to claim knowledge of it -- none but their playful and approve self .
His thought be constant to her image .
It be always there .
She sit ply her needle , before the fire , and sing to herself .
Such a blithe , thriving , steady little Dot !
The Fairy figure turn upon him all at once , by one consent , with one prodigious concentrate stare , and seem to say , `` Is this the light wife you be mourn for ? ''
There be sound of gaiety outside , musical instrument , and noisy tongue , and laughter .
A crowd of young merry-makers come pour in , among whom be May Fielding and a score of pretty girl .
Dot be the fair of them all ; as young a any of them too .
They come to summon her to join their party .
It be a dance .
If ever little foot be make for dancing , hers be , surely .
But she laugh , and shake her head , and point to her cookery on the fire , and her table ready spread ; with an exult defiance that render her more charming than she be before .
And so she merrily dismiss them , nod to her would-be partner , one by one , a they pass out , with a comical indifference , enough to make them go and drown themselves immediately if they be her admirer -- and they must have be so , more or less ; they could n't help it .
And yet indifference be not her character .
Oh no !
For presently there come a certain Carrier to the door ; and , bless her , what a welcome she bestow upon him !
Again the staring figure turn upon him all at once , and seem to say , `` Is this the wife who have forsake you ? ''
A shadow fell upon the mirror or the picture : call it what you will .
A great shadow of the Stranger , a he first stand underneath their roof ; cover it surface , and blot out all other object .
But , the nimble Fairies work like bee to clear it off again .
And Dot again be there .
Still bright and beautiful .
Rocking her little Baby in it cradle , sing to it softly , and rest her head upon a shoulder which have it counterpart in the musing figure by which the Fairy Cricket stand .
The night -- I mean the real night : not go by Fairy clock -- be wear now ; and , in this stage of the Carrier 's thought , the moon burst out , and shone brightly in the sky .
Perhaps some calm and quiet light have rise also in his mind ; and he could think more soberly of what have happen .
Although the shadow of the Stranger fell at interval upon the glass -- always distinct , and big , and thoroughly define -- it never fell so darkly a at first .
Whenever it appear , the Fairies utter a general cry of consternation , and ply their little arm and leg with inconceivable activity to rub it out .
And whenever they get at Dot again , and show her to him once more , bright and beautiful , they cheer in the most inspiring manner .
They never show her otherwise than beautiful and bright , for they be Household Spirits to whom falsehood be an annihilation ; and be so , what Dot be there for them , but the one active , beaming , pleasant little creature who have be the light and sun of the Carrier 's Home ?
The Fairies be prodigiously excite when they show her , with the Baby , gossipping among a knot of sage old matron , and affect to be wondrous old and matronly herself , and lean in a staid demure old way upon her husband 's arm , attempt -- she !
such a bud of a little woman -- to convey the idea of have abjure the vanity of the world in general , and of be the sort of person to whom it be no novelty at all to be a mother ; yet , in the same breath , they show her laugh at the Carrier for be awkward , and pull up his shirt collar to make him smart , and mince merrily about that very room to teach him how to dance !
They turn , and star immensely at him when they show her with the Blind Girl ; for , though she carry cheerfulness and animation with her wheresoever she go , she bore those influence into Caleb Plummer 's home , heap up and run over .
The Blind Girl 's love for her , and trust in her , and gratitude to her ; her own good busy way of set Bertha 's thanks aside ; her dexterous little art for fill up each moment of the visit in do something useful to the house , and really work hard while feign to make holiday ; her bountiful provision of those stand delicacy , the Veal and Ham Pie and the bottle of Beer ; her radiant little face arrive at the door , and take leave ; the wonderful expression in her whole self , from her neat foot to the crown of her head , of be a part of the establishment -- a something necessary to it , which it could n't be without , -- all this the Fairies revel in , and love her for .
And once again they look upon him all at once , appealingly , and seem to say , while some among them nestle in her dress and fondle her , `` Is this the wife who have betray your confidence ? ''
More than once , or twice , or thrice , in the long thoughtful night , they show her to him sit on her favourite seat , with her bent head , her hand clasp on her brow , her fall hair .
As he have see her last .
And when they find her thus , they neither turn nor look upon him , but gather close round her , and comfort and kiss her , and press on one another , to show sympathy and kindness to her , and forget him altogether .
Thus the night pass .
The moon go down ; the star grow pale ; the cold day break ; the sun rise .
The Carrier still sit , muse , in the chimney-corner .
He have sit there , with his head upon his hand , all night .
All night the faithful Cricket have be Chirp , Chirp , Chirping on the Hearth .
All night he have listen to it voice .
All night the Household Fairies have be busy with him .
All night she have be amiable and blameless in the glass , except when that one shadow fell upon it .
He rise up when it be broad day , and wash and dress himself .
He could n't go about his customary cheerful avocation -- he want spirit for them -- but it matter the less that it be Tackleton 's wedding-day , and he have arrange to make his round by proxy .
He have think to have go merrily to church with Dot .
But such plan be at an end .
It be their own wedding-day too .
Ah !
how little he have look for such a close to such a year !
The Carrier expect that Tackleton would pay him an early visit ; and he be right .
He have not walk to and fro before his own door many minute , when he saw the toy merchant come in his chaise along the road .
As the chaise draw nearer , he perceive that Tackleton be dress out sprucely for his marriage , and that he have decorate his horse 's head with flower and favour .
The horse look much more like a bridegroom than Tackleton , whose half-closed eye be more disagreeably expressive than ever .
But the Carrier take little heed of this .
His thought have other occupation .
`` John Peerybingle ! ''
say Tackleton with an air of condolence .
`` My good fellow , how do you find yourself this morning ? ''
`` I have have but a poor night , Master Tackleton , '' return the Carrier , shake his head : `` for I have be a good deal disturb in my mind .
But it 's over now !
Can you spare me half an hour or so , for some private talk ? ''
`` I come on purpose , '' return Tackleton , alight .
`` Never mind the horse .
He 'll stand quiet enough , with the rein over this post , if you 'll give him a mouthful of hay . ''
The Carrier have bring it from his stable and set it before him , they turn into the house .
`` You be not marry before noon , '' he say , `` I think ? ''
`` No , '' answer Tackleton .
`` Plenty of time .
Plenty of time . ''
When they enter the kitchen , Tilly Slowboy be rap at the Stranger 's door ; which be only remove from it by a few step .
One of her very red eye -LRB- for Tilly have be cry all night long , because her mistress cry -RRB- be at the keyhole ; and she be knock very loud , and seem frighten .
`` If you please I ca n't make nobody hear , '' say Tilly , look round .
`` I hope nobody a n't go and be and die if you please ! ''
This philanthropic wish Miss Slowboy emphasize with various new rap and kick at the door , which lead to no result whatever .
`` Shall I go ? ''
say Tackleton .
`` It 's curious . ''
The Carrier , who have turn his face from the door , sign him to go if he would .
So Tackleton go to Tilly Slowboy 's relief ; and he too kick and knock ; and he too fail to get the least reply .
But he think of try the handle of the door ; and , a it open easily , he peep in , look in , go in , and soon come run out again .
`` John Peerybingle , '' say Tackleton in his ear , `` I hope there have be nothing -- nothing rash in the night ? ''
The Carrier turn upon him quickly .
`` Because he 's go ! ''
say Tackleton ; `` and the window 's open .
I do n't see any mark -- to be sure , it 's almost on a level with the garden : but I be afraid there might have be some -- some scuffle .
Eh ? ''
He nearly shut up the expressive eye altogether ; he look at him so hard .
And he give his eye , and his face , and his whole person , a sharp twist .
As if he would have screw the truth out of him .
`` Make yourself easy , '' say the Carrier .
`` He go into that room last night , without harm in word or deed from me , and no one have enter it since .
He be away of his own free-will .
I 'd go out gladly at that door , and beg my bread from house to house , for life , if I could so change the past that he have never come .
But he have come and go .
And I have do with him ! ''
`` Oh !
-- Well , I think he have get off pretty easy , '' say Tackleton , take a chair .
The sneer be lose upon the Carrier , who sit down too , and shade his face with his hand , for some little time , before proceeding .
`` You show me last night , '' he say at length , `` my wife -- my wife that I love -- secretly -- '' `` And tenderly , '' insinuate Tackleton . ''
-- Conniving at that man 's disguise , and give him opportunity of meet her alone .
I think there 's no sight I would n't have rather see than that .
I think there 's no man in the world I would n't have rather have to show it me . ''
`` I confess to have have my suspicion always , '' say Tackleton .
`` And that have make me objectionable here , I know . ''
`` But , a you do show it me , '' pursue the Carrier , not mind him ; `` and a you saw her , my wife , my wife that I love '' -- his voice , and eye , and hand grow steady and firm a he repeat these word : evidently in pursuance of a steadfast purpose -- `` a you saw her at this disadvantage , it be right and just that you should also see with my eye , and look into my breast , and know what my mind be upon the subject .
For it 's settle , '' say the Carrier , regard him attentively .
`` And nothing can shake it now . ''
Tackleton mutter a few general word of assent about it be necessary to vindicate something or other ; but he be overawe by the manner of his companion .
Plain and unpolished a it be , it have a something dignify and noble in it , which nothing but the soul of generous honour dwelling in the man could have impart .
`` I be a plain , rough man , '' pursue the Carrier `` with very little to recommend me .
I be not a clever man , a you very well know .
I be not a young man .
I love my little Dot , because I have see her grow up , from a child , in her father 's house ; because I know how precious she be ; because she have be my life for year and year .
There 's many men I ca n't compare with , who never could have love my little Dot like me , I think ! ''
He pause , and softly beat the ground a short time with his foot , before resuming : `` I often think that though I be n't good enough for her , I should make her a kind husband , and perhaps know her value well than another ; and in this way I reconcile it to myself , and come to think it might be possible that we should be marry .
And , in the end , it come about , and we be marry ! ''
`` Hah ! ''
say Tackleton with a significant shake of his head .
`` I have study myself ; I have have experience of myself ; I know how much I love her , and how happy I should be , '' pursue the Carrier .
`` But I have not -- I feel it now -- sufficiently consider her . ''
`` To be sure , '' say Tackleton .
`` Giddiness , frivolity , fickleness , love of admiration !
Not consider !
All leave out of sight !
Hah ! ''
`` You have best not interrupt me , '' say the Carrier with some sternness , `` till you understand me ; and you 're wide of do so .
If , yesterday , I 'd have strike that man down at a blow , who dare to breathe a word against her , to-day I 'd set my foot upon his face , if he be my brother ! ''
The toy merchant gaze at him in astonishment .
He go on in a soft tone : `` Did I consider , '' say the Carrier , `` that I take her -- at her age , and with her beauty -- from her young companion , and the many scene of which she be the ornament ; in which she be the bright little star that ever shone , to shut her up from day to day in my dull house , and keep my tedious company ?
Did I consider how little suit I be to her sprightly humour , and how wearisome a plodding man like me must be to one of her quick spirit ?
Did I consider that it be no merit in me , or claim in me , that I love her , when everybody must who know her ?
Never .
I take advantage of her hopeful nature and her cheerful disposition ; and I marry her .
I wish I never have !
For her sake ; not for mine ! ''
The toy merchant gaze at him without wink .
Even the half-shut eye be open now .
`` Heaven bless her ! ''
say the Carrier , `` for the cheerful constancy with which she have try to keep the knowledge of this from me !
And Heaven help me , that , in my slow mind , I have not find it out before !
Poor child !
Poor Dot !
I not to find it out , who have see her eye fill with tear when such a marriage a our own be speak of !
I , who have see the secret trembling on her lip a hundred time , and never suspect it , till last night !
Poor girl !
That I could ever hope she would be fond of me !
That I could ever believe she be ! ''
`` She make a show of it , '' say Tackleton .
`` She make such a show of it , that , to tell you the truth , it be the origin of my misgiving . ''
And here he assert the superiority of May Fielding , who certainly make no sort of show of be fond of him .
`` She have try , '' say the poor Carrier with great emotion than he have exhibit yet ; `` I only now begin to know how hard she have try , to be my dutiful and zealous wife .
How good she have be ; how much she have do ; how brave and strong a heart she have ; let the happiness I have know under this roof bear witness !
It will be some help and comfort to me when I be here alone . ''
`` Here alone ? ''
say Tackleton .
`` Oh !
Then you do mean to take some notice of this ? ''
`` I mean , '' return the Carrier , `` to do her the great kindness , and make her the best reparation , in my power .
I can release her from the daily pain of an unequal marriage , and the struggle to conceal it .
She shall be as free a I can render her . ''
`` Make her reparation ! ''
exclaim Tackleton , twist and turn his great ear with his hand .
`` There must be something wrong here .
You do n't say that , of course . ''
The Carrier set his grip upon the collar of the toy merchant , and shake him like a reed .
`` Listen to me ! ''
he say .
`` And take care that you hear me right .
Listen to me .
Do I speak plainly ? ''
`` Very plainly indeed , '' answer Tackleton .
`` As if I mean it ? ''
`` Very much a if you mean it . ''
`` I sit upon that hearth , last night , all night , '' exclaim the Carrier .
`` On the spot where she have often sit beside me , with her sweet face look into mine .
I call up her whole life day by day .
I have her dear self , in it every passage , in review before me .
And , upon my soul , she be innocent , if there be One to judge the innocent and guilty ! ''
Staunch Cricket on the Hearth !
Loyal Household Fairies !
`` Passion and distrust have leave me ! ''
say the Carrier ; `` and nothing but my grief remain .
In an unhappy moment some old lover , well suit to her taste and year than I , forsaken , perhaps , for me , against her will , return .
In an unhappy moment , take by surprise , and want time to think of what she do , she make herself a party to his treachery by conceal it .
Last night she saw him , in the interview we witness .
It be wrong .
But , otherwise than this , she be innocent , if there be truth on earth ! ''
`` If that be your opinion -- '' Tackleton begin .
`` So , let her go ! ''
pursue the Carrier .
`` Go , with my blessing for the many happy hour she have give me , and my forgiveness for any pang she have cause me .
Let her go , and have the peace of mind I wish her !
She 'll never hate me .
She 'll learn to like me good when I 'm not a drag upon her , and she wear the chain I have rivet more lightly .
This be the day on which I take her , with so little thought for her enjoyment , from her home .
To-day she shall return to it , and I will trouble her no more .
Her father and mother will be here to-day -- we have make a little plan for keep it together -- and they shall take her home .
I can trust her there , or anywhere .
She leave me without blame , and she will live so I be sure .
If I should die -- I may perhaps while she be still young ; I have lose some courage in a few hour -- she 'll find that I remember her , and love her to the last !
This be the end of what you show me .
Now , it 's over ! ''
`` Oh no , John , not over !
Do not say it 's over yet !
Not quite yet .
I have hear your noble word .
I could not steal away , pretend to be ignorant of what have affect me with such deep gratitude .
Do not say it 's over till the clock have strike again ! ''
She have enter shortly after Tackleton , and have remain there .
She never look at Tackleton , but fix her eye upon her husband .
But she keep away from him , set a wide a space a possible between them ; and , though she speak with most impassioned earnestness , she go no nearer to him even then .
How different in this from her old self !
`` No hand can make the clock which will strike again for me the hour that be go , '' reply the Carrier with a faint smile .
`` But let it be so , if you will , my dear .
It will strike soon .
It 's of little matter what we say .
I 'd try to please you in a hard case than that . ''
`` Well ! ''
mutter Tackleton .
`` I must be off , for , when the clock strike again , it 'll be necessary for me to be upon my way to church .
Good morning , John Peerybingle .
I 'm sorry to be deprive of the pleasure of your company .
Sorry for the loss , and the occasion of it too ! ''
`` I have speak plainly ? ''
say the Carrier , accompany him to the door .
`` Oh , quite ! ''
`` And you 'll remember what I have say ? ''
`` Why , if you compel me to make the observation , '' say Tackleton , previously take the precaution of get into his chaise , `` I must say that it be so very unexpected , that I 'm far from be likely to forget it . ''
`` The good for u both , '' return the Carrier .
`` Good-bye .
I give you joy ! ''
`` I wish I could give it to you , '' say Tackleton .
`` As I ca n't , thankee .
Between ourselves -LRB- a I tell you before , eh ? -RRB-
I do n't much think I shall have the less joy in my married life because May have n't be too officious about me , and too demonstrative .
Good-bye !
Take care of yourself . ''
The Carrier stand look after him until he be small in the distance than his horse 's flower and favour near at hand ; and then , with a deep sigh , go stroll like a restless , broken man , among some neighbouring elm ; unwilling to return until the clock be on the eve of striking .
His little wife , be leave alone , sob piteously ; but often dry her eye and check herself , to say how good he be , how excellent he be !
and once or twice she laugh ; so heartily , triumphantly , and incoherently -LRB- still cry all the time -RRB- , that Tilly be quite horrify .
`` Ow , if you please , do n't ! ''
say Tilly .
`` It 's enough to dead and bury the Baby , so it be if you please . ''
`` Will you bring him sometimes to see his father , Tilly , '' inquire her mistress , dry her eye , -- `` when I ca n't live here , and have go to my old home ? ''
`` Ow , if you please , do n't ! ''
cry Tilly , throw back her head , and burst out into a howl -- she look at the moment uncommonly like Boxer .
`` Ow , if you please , do n't !
Ow , what have everybody go and be and do with everybody , make everybody else so wretched ?
Ow-w-w-w ! ''
The soft-hearted Slowboy tail off at this juncture into such a deplorable howl , the more tremendous from it long suppression , that she must infallibly have awaken the Baby , and frighten him into something serious -LRB- probably convulsion -RRB- , if her eye have not encounter Caleb Plummer lead in his daughter .
This spectacle restore her to a sense of the propriety , she stand for some few moment silent , with her mouth wide open ; and then , post off to the bed on which the Baby lay asleep , dance in a weird , St. Vitus manner on the floor , and at the same time rummage with her face and head among the bedclothes , apparently derive much relief from those extraordinary operation .
`` Mary ! ''
say Bertha .
`` Not at the marriage ! ''
`` I tell her you would not be there , mum , '' whisper Caleb .
`` I hear as much last night .
But bless you , '' say the little man , take her tenderly by both hand , '' I do n't care for what they say .
I do n't believe them .
There a n't much of me , but that little should be tear to piece sooner than I 'd trust a word against you ! ''
He put his arm about her neck and hug her , a a child might have hug one of his own doll .
`` Bertha could n't stay at home this morning , '' say Caleb .
`` She be afraid , I know , to hear the bell ring , and could n't trust herself to be so near them on their wedding-day .
So we start in good time , and come here .
I have be think of what I have do , '' say Caleb after a moment 's pause ; `` I have be blame myself till I hardly know what to do , or where to turn , for the distress of mind I have cause her ; and I 've come to the conclusion that I 'd well , if you 'll stay with me , mum , the while , tell her the truth .
You 'll stay with me the while ? ''
he inquire , tremble from head to foot .
`` I do n't know what effect it may have upon her ; I do n't know what she 'll think of me ; I do n't know that she 'll ever care for her poor father afterwards .
But it 's best for her that she should be undeceive , and I must bear the consequence a I deserve ! ''
`` Mary , '' say Bertha , `` where be your hand ?
Ah !
Here it be ; here it be ! ''
press it to her lip with a smile , and draw it through her arm .
`` I hear them speak softly among themselves last night of some blame against you .
They be wrong . ''
The Carrier 's wife be silent .
Caleb answer for her .
`` They be wrong , '' he say .
`` I know it ! ''
cry Bertha , proudly .
`` I tell them so .
I scorn to hear a word !
Blame her with justice ! ''
she press the hand between her own , and the soft cheek against her face .
`` No , I be not so blind a that . ''
Her father go on one side of her , while Dot remain upon the other , hold her hand .
`` I know you all , '' say Bertha , `` good than you think .
But none so well a her .
Not even you , father .
There be nothing half so real and so true about me a she be .
If I could be restore to sight this instant , and not a word be speak , I could choose her from a crowd !
My sister ! ''
`` Bertha , my dear ! ''
say Caleb .
`` I have something on my mind I want to tell you while we three be alone .
Hear me kindly !
I have a confession to make to you , my darling ! ''
`` A confession , father ? ''
`` I have wander from the truth , and lose myself , my child , '' say Caleb with a pitiable expression in his bewildered face .
`` I have wander from the truth , intend to be kind to you ; and have be cruel . ''
She turn her wonder-stricken face towards him , and repeat `` Cruel ! ''
`` He accuse himself too strongly , Bertha , '' say Dot .
`` You 'll say so presently .
You 'll be the first to tell him so . ''
`` He cruel to me ! ''
cry Bertha with a smile of incredulity .
`` Not mean it , my child , '' say Caleb .
`` But I have be : though I never suspect it till yesterday .
My dear blind daughter , hear me and forgive me .
The world you live in , heart of mine , do n't exist a I have represent it .
The eye you have trust in have be false to you . ''
She turn her wonder-stricken face towards him still ; but draw back , and cling close to her friend .
`` Your road in life be rough , my poor one , '' say Caleb , `` and I mean to smooth it for you .
I have alter object , change the character of people , invent many thing that never have be , to make you happy .
I have have concealment from you , put deception on you , God forgive me !
and surround you with fancy . ''
`` But living people be not fancy ? ''
she say hurriedly , and turn very pale , and still retire from him .
`` You ca n't change them . ''
`` I have do so , Bertha , '' plead Caleb .
`` There be one person that you know , my dove -- '' `` Oh , father !
why do you say , I know ? ''
she answer in a term of keen reproach .
`` What and whom do I know ?
I who have no leader !
I so miserably blind ! ''
In the anguish of her heart , she stretch out her hand , a if she be grope her way ; then spread them , in a manner most forlorn and sad , upon her face .
`` The marriage that take place to-day , '' say Caleb , `` be with a stern , sordid , grind man .
A hard master to you and me , my dear , for many year .
Ugly in his look , and in his nature .
Cold and callous always .
Unlike what I have paint him to you in everything , my child .
In everything . ''
`` Oh , why , '' cry the Blind Girl , torture , a it seem , almost beyond endurance , `` why do you ever do this ?
Why do you ever fill my heart so full , and then come in like Death , and tear away the object of my love ?
O Heaven , how blind I be !
How helpless and alone ! ''
Her afflict father hung his head , and offer no reply but in his penitence and sorrow .
She have be but a short time in this passion of regret when the Cricket on the Hearth , unheard by all but her , begin to chirp .
Not merrily , but in a low , faint , sorrow way .
It be so mournful , that her tear begin to flow ; and , when the Presence which have be beside the Carrier all night , appear behind her , point to her father , they fell down like rain .
She hear the Cricket-voice more plainly soon , and be conscious , through her blindness , of the Presence hovering about her father .
`` Mary , '' say the Blind Girl , `` tell me what my home be .
What it truly be . ''
`` It be a poor place , Bertha ; very poor and bare indeed .
The house will scarcely keep out wind and rain another winter .
It be a roughly shield from the weather , Bertha , '' Dot continue in a low , clear voice , `` a your poor father in his sackcloth coat . ''
The Blind Girl , greatly agitate , rise , and lead the Carrier 's little wife aside .
`` Those present that I take such care of ; that come almost at my wish , and be so dearly welcome to me , '' she say , tremble ; `` where do they come from ?
Did you send them ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Who , then ? ''
Dot saw she know already , and be silent .
The Blind Girl spread her hand before her face again .
But in quite another manner now .
`` Dear Mary , a moment .
One moment .
More this way .
Speak softly to me .
You be true I know .
You 'd not deceive me now ; would you ? ''
`` No , Bertha , indeed ! ''
`` No , I be sure you would not .
You have too much pity for me .
Mary , look across the room to where we be just now -- to where my father be -- my father , so compassionate and love to me -- and tell me what you see . ''
`` I see , '' say Dot , who understand her well , `` an old man sit in a chair , and lean sorrowfully on the back , with his face rest on his hand .
As if his child should comfort him , Bertha . ''
`` Yes , yes .
She will .
Go on . ''
`` He be an old man , worn with care and work .
He be a spare , deject , thoughtful , grey-haired man .
I see him now , despondent and bow down , and strive against nothing .
But , Bertha , I have see him many time before , and strive hard in many way , for one great sacred object .
And I honour his grey head , and bless him ! ''
The Blind Girl break away from her ; and , throw herself upon her knee before him , take the grey head to her breast .
`` It be my sight restore .
It be my sight ! ''
she cry .
`` I have be blind , and now my eye be open .
I never know him !
To think I might have die , and never truly see the father who have be so love to me ! ''
There be no word for Caleb 's emotion .
`` There be not a gallant figure on this earth , '' exclaim the Blind Girl , hold him in her embrace , `` that I would love so dearly , and would cherish so devotedly , a this !
The greyer , and more worn , the dearer , father !
Never let them say I be blind again .
There 's not a furrow in his face , there 's not a hair upon his head , that shall be forget in my prayer and thanks to Heaven ! ''
Caleb manage to articulate , `` My Bertha ! ''
`` And in my blindness I believe him , '' say the girl , caress him with tear of exquisite affection , `` to be so different .
And have him beside me day by day , so mindful of me always , never dream of this ! ''
`` The fresh smart father in the blue coat , Bertha , '' say poor Caleb .
`` He 's go ! ''
`` Nothing be go , '' she answer .
`` Dearest father , no !
Everything be here -- in you .
The father that I love so well ; the father that I never love enough , and never know ; the benefactor whom I first begin to reverence and love , because he have such sympathy for me , -- all be here in you .
Nothing be dead to me .
The soul of all that be most dear to me be here -- here , with the worn face , and the grey head .
And I be NOT blind , father , any longer ! ''
Dot 's whole attention have be concentrate , during this discourse , upon the father and daughter ; but look , now , towards the little Hay-maker in the Moorish meadow , she saw that the clock be within a few minute of striking , and fell , immediately , into a nervous and excited state .
`` Father ! ''
say Bertha , hesitating .
`` Mary ! ''
`` Yes , my dear , '' return Caleb .
`` Here she be . ''
`` There be no change in her .
You never tell me anything of her that be not true ? ''
`` I should have do it , my dear , I 'm afraid , '' return Caleb , `` if I could have make her good than she be .
But I must have change her for the bad , if I have change her at all .
Nothing could improve her , Bertha . ''
Confident a the Blind Girl have be when she ask the question , her delight and pride in the reply , and her renewed embrace of Dot , be charm to behold .
`` More change than you think for may happen , though , my dear , '' say Dot .
`` Changes for the good , I mean ; change for great joy to some of u .
You must n't let them startle you too much , if any such should ever happen , and affect you .
Are those wheel upon the road ?
You 've a quick ear , Bertha .
Are they wheel ? ''
`` Yes .
Coming very fast . ''
`` I -- I -- I know you have a quick ear , '' say Dot , place her hand upon her heart , and evidently talk on a fast a she could , to hide it palpitate state , `` because I have notice it often , and because you be so quick to find out that strange step last night .
Though why you should have say , a I very well recollect you do say , Bertha , ` Whose step be that ? '
and why you should have take any great observation of it than of any other step , I do n't know .
Though , a I say just now , there be great change in the world : great change : and we ca n't do good than prepare ourselves to be surprise at hardly anything . ''
Caleb wonder what this meant ; perceive that she speak to him , no less than to his daughter .
He saw her , with astonishment , so fluttered and distress that she could scarcely breathe ; and hold to a chair , to save herself from fall .
`` They be wheel indeed ! ''
she pant .
`` Coming nearer !
Nearer !
Very close !
And now you hear them stop at the garden-gate !
And now you hear a step outside the door -- the same step , Bertha , be it not ?
-- and now -- ! ''
She utter a wild cry of uncontrollable delight ; and run up to Caleb , put her hand upon his eye , a a young man rush into the room , and , fling away his hat into the air , come sweep down upon them .
`` Is it over ? ''
cry Dot .
`` Yes ! ''
`` Happily over ? ''
`` Yes ! ''
`` Do you recollect the voice , dear Caleb ?
Did you ever hear the like of it before ? ''
cry Dot .
`` If my boy in the Golden South Americas be alive -- ! ''
say Caleb , tremble .
`` He be alive ! ''
shriek Dot , remove her hand from his eye , and clap them in ecstasy .
`` Look at him !
See where he stand before you , healthy and strong !
Your own dear son .
Your own dear living , love brother , Bertha ! ''
All honour to the little creature for her transport !
All honour to her tear and laughter , when the three be lock in one another 's arm !
All honour to the heartiness with which she meet the sunburnt sailor-fellow , with his dark stream hair , half-way , and never turn her rosy little mouth aside , but suffer him to kiss it freely , and to press her to his bound heart !
And honour to the Cuckoo too -- why not ?
-- for burst out of the trap-door in the Moorish Palace like a housebreaker , and hiccough twelve time on the assembled company , a if he have get drunk for joy !
The Carrier , entering , start back .
And well he might , to find himself in such good company .
`` Look , John ! ''
say Caleb , exultingly , `` look here !
My own boy from the Golden South Americas !
My own son !
Him that you fit out , and send away yourself !
Him that you be always such a friend to ! ''
The Carrier advance to seize him by the hand ; but , recoil , a some feature in his face awaken a remembrance of the Deaf Man in the Cart , say : `` Edward !
Was it you ? ''
`` Now tell him all ! ''
cry Dot .
`` Tell him all , Edward ; and do n't spare me , for nothing shall make me spare myself in his eye , ever again . ''
`` I be the man , '' say Edward .
`` And could you steal , disguise , into the house of your old friend ? ''
rejoin the Carrier .
`` There be a frank boy once -- how many year be it , Caleb , since we hear that he be dead , and have it prove , we think ?
-- who never would have do that . ''
`` There be a generous friend of mine once ; more a father to me than a friend , '' say Edward ; `` who never would have judge me , or any other man , unheard .
You be he .
So I be certain you will hear me now . ''
The Carrier , with a troubled glance at Dot , who still keep far away from him , reply , `` Well !
that 's but fair .
I will . ''
`` You must know that when I leave here a boy , '' say Edward , `` I be in love , and my love be return .
She be a very young girl , who perhaps -LRB- you may tell me -RRB- do n't know her own mind .
But I know mine , and I have a passion for her . ''
`` You have ! ''
exclaim the Carrier .
`` You ! ''
`` Indeed I have , '' return the other .
`` And she return it .
I have ever since believe she do , and now I be sure she do . ''
`` Heaven help me ! ''
say the Carrier .
`` This be bad than all . ''
`` Constant to her , '' say Edward , `` and returning , full of hope , after many hardship and peril , to redeem my part of our old contract , I hear , twenty mile away , that she be false to me ; that she have forget me ; and have bestow herself upon another and a rich man .
I have no mind to reproach her ; but I wish to see her , and to prove beyond dispute that this be true .
I hop she might have be force into it against her own desire and recollection .
It would be small comfort , but it would be some , I think , and on I come .
That I might have the truth , the real truth , observe freely for myself , and judge for myself , without obstruction on the one hand , or present my own influence -LRB- if I have any -RRB- before her , on the other , I dress myself unlike myself -- you know how ; and wait on the road -- you know where .
You have no suspicion of me ; neither have -- have she , '' point to Dot , `` until I whisper in her ear at that fireside , and she so nearly betray me . ''
`` But when she know that Edward be alive , and have come back , '' sob Dot , now speak for herself , a she have burn to do , all through this narrative ; `` and when she know his purpose , she advise him by all mean to keep his secret close ; for his old friend John Peerybingle be much too open in his nature , and too clumsy in all artifice -- be a clumsy man in general , '' say Dot , half laughing and half cry -- `` to keep it for him .
And when she -- that 's me , John , '' sob the little woman -- `` tell him all , and how his sweetheart have believe him to be dead ; and how she have at last be over-persuaded by her mother into a marriage which the silly , dear old thing call advantageous ; and when she -- that 's me again , John -- tell him they be not yet marry -LRB- though close upon it -RRB- , and that it would be nothing but a sacrifice if it go on , for there be no love on her side ; and when he go nearly mad with joy to hear it , -- then she -- that 's me again -- say she would go between them , a she have often do before in old time , John , and would sound his sweetheart , and be sure that what she -- me again , John -- say and think be right .
And it WAS right , John !
And they be bring together , John !
And they be marry , John , an hour ago !
And here 's the Bride !
And Gruff and Tackleton may die a bachelor !
And I 'm a happy little woman , May , God bless you ! ''
She be an irresistible little woman , if that be anything to the purpose ; and never so completely irresistible a in her present transport .
There never be congratulation so endear and delicious a those she lavish on herself and on the Bride .
Amid the tumult of emotion in his breast , the honest Carrier have stand confound .
Flying , now , towards her , Dot stretch out her hand to stop him , and retreat a before .
`` No , John , no !
Hear all !
Do n't love me any more , John , till you 've hear every word I have to say .
It be wrong to have a secret from you , John .
I 'm very sorry .
I do n't think it any harm , till I come and sit down by you on the little stool last night .
But when I know , by what be write in your face , that you have see me walk in the gallery with Edward , and when I know what you think , I felt how giddy and how wrong it be .
But oh , dear John , how could you , could you think so ? ''
Little woman , how she sob again !
John Peerybingle would have catch her in his arm .
But no ; she would n't let him .
`` Do n't love me yet , please , John !
Not for a long time yet !
When I be sad about this intended marriage , dear , it be because I remember May and Edward such young lover ; and know that her heart be far away from Tackleton .
You believe that , now , do n't you , John ? ''
John be go to make another rush at this appeal ; but she stop him again .
`` No ; keep there , please , John !
When I laugh at you , a I sometimes do , John , and call you clumsy and a dear old goose , and name of that sort , it 's because I love you , John , so well , and take such pleasure in your way , and would n't see you alter in the least respect to have you make a king to-morrow . ''
`` Hooroar ! ''
say Caleb with unusual vigour .
`` My opinion ! ''
`` And when I speak of people be middle-aged and steady , John , and pretend that we be a humdrum couple , go on in a jog-trot sort of way , it 's only because I 'm such a silly little thing , John , that I like , sometimes , to act a a kind of Play with Baby , and all that : and make believe . ''
She saw that he be come ; and stop him again .
But she be very nearly too late .
`` No , do n't love me for another minute or two , if you please , John !
What I want most to tell you , I have keep to the last .
My dear , good , generous John , when we be talk the other night about the Cricket , I have it on my lip to say , that at first I do not love you quite so dearly a I do now ; when I first come home here , I be half afraid that I might n't learn to love you every bit as well a I hop and pray I might -- be so very young , John !
But , dear John , every day and hour I love you more and more .
And if I could have love you good than I do , the noble word I hear you say this morning would have make me .
But I ca n't .
All the affection that I have -LRB- it be a great deal , John -RRB- I give you , a you well deserve , long , long ago , and I have no more leave to give .
Now , my dear husband , take me to your heart again !
That 's my home , John ; and never , never think of send me to any other ! ''
You never will derive so much delight from see a glorious little woman in the arm of a third party a you would have felt if you have see Dot run into the Carrier 's embrace .
It be the most complete , unmitigated , soul-fraught little piece of earnestness that ever you behold in all your day .
You may be sure the Carrier be in a state of perfect rapture ; and you may be sure Dot be likewise ; and you may be sure they all be , inclusive of Miss Slowboy , who weep copiously for joy , and , wish to include her young charge in the general interchange of congratulation , hand round the Baby to everybody in succession , a if it be something to drink .
But , now , the sound of wheel be heard again outside the door ; and somebody exclaim that Gruff and Tackleton be come back .
Speedily that worthy gentleman appear , look warm and fluster .
`` Why , what the Devil 's this , John Peerybingle ? ''
say Tackleton .
`` There 's some mistake .
I appoint Mrs. Tackleton to meet me at the church , and I 'll swear I pass her on the road , on her way here .
Oh !
here she be !
I beg your pardon , sir ; I have n't the pleasure of know you ; but , if you can do me the favour to spare this young lady , she have rather a particular engagement this morning . ''
`` But I ca n't spare her , '' return Edward .
`` I could n't think of it . ''
`` What do you mean , you vagabond ? ''
say Tackleton .
`` I mean that , a I can make allowance for your be vexed , '' return the other with a smile , `` I be as deaf to harsh discourse this morning a I be to all discourse last night . ''
The look that Tackleton bestow upon him , and the start he give !
`` I be sorry , sir , '' say Edward , hold out May 's left hand , and especially the third finger , `` that the young lady ca n't accompany you to church ; but , a she have be there once this morning , perhaps you 'll excuse her . ''
Tackleton look hard at the third finger , and take a little piece of silver paper , apparently contain a ring , from his waistcoat pocket .
`` Miss Slowboy , '' say Tackleton , `` will you have the kindness to throw that in the fire ?
Thankee . ''
`` It be a previous engagement , quite an old engagement , that prevent my wife from keep her appointment with you , I assure you , '' say Edward .
`` Mr. Tackleton will do me the justice to acknowledge that I reveal it to him faithfully ; and that I tell him , many time , I never could forget it , '' say May , blushing .
`` Oh , certainly ! ''
say Tackleton .
`` Oh , to be sure !
Oh , it 's all right , it 's quite correct !
Mrs. Edward Plummer , I infer ? ''
`` That 's the name , '' return the bridegroom .
`` Ah !
I should n't have know you , sir , '' say Tackleton , scrutinise his face narrowly , and make a low bow .
`` I give you joy , sir ! ''
`` Thankee . ''
`` Mrs. Peerybingle , '' say Tackleton , turn suddenly to where she stand with her husband ; `` I 'm sorry .
You have n't do me a very great kindness , but , upon my life , I be sorry .
You be good than I think you .
John Peerybingle , I be sorry .
You understand me ; that 's enough .
It 's quite correct , lady and gentleman all , and perfectly satisfactory .
Good morning ! ''
With these word he carry it off , and carry himself off too : merely stop at the door to take the flower and favour from his horse 's head , and to kick that animal once in the rib , a a mean of inform him that there be a screw loose in his arrangement .
Of course , it become a serious duty now to make such a day of it a should mark these event for a high Feast and Festival in the Peerybingle Calendar for evermore .
Accordingly , Dot go to work to produce such an entertainment a should reflect undying honour on the house and on every one concern ; and , in a very short space of time , she be up to her dimpled elbow in flour , and whiten the Carrier 's coat , every time he come near her , by stop him to give him a kiss .
That good fellow wash the green , and peel the turnip , and break the plate , and upset iron pot full of cold water on the fire , and make himself useful in all sort of way : while a couple of professional assistant , hastily call in from somewhere in the neighbourhood , a on a point of life or death , ran against each other in all the doorway and round all the corner , and everybody tumble over Tilly Slowboy and the Baby , everywhere .
Tilly never come out in such force before .
Her ubiquity be the theme of general admiration .
She be a stumbling-block in the passage at five-and-twenty minute past two ; a man-trap in the kitchen at half-past two precisely ; and a pitfall in the garret at five-and-twenty minute to three .
The Baby 's head be , a it be , a test and touchstone for every description of matter , animal , vegetable , and mineral .
Nothing be in use that day that do n't come , at some time or other , into close acquaintance with it .
Then there be a great Expedition set on foot to go and find out Mrs . Fielding ; and to be dismally penitent to that excellent gentlewoman ; and to bring her back , by force , if needful , to be happy and forgiving .
And when the Expedition first discover her , she would listen to no term at all , but say , an unspeakable number of time , that ever she should have live to see the day !
and could n't be get to say anything else , except `` Now carry me to the grave '' : which seem absurd , on account of her not be dead , or anything at all like it .
After a time she lapse into a state of dreadful calmness , and observe that , when that unfortunate train of circumstance have occur in the Indigo Trade , she have foreseen that she would be expose , during her whole life , to every specie of insult and contumely ; and that she be glad to find it be the case ; and beg they would n't trouble themselves about her , -- for what be she ?
-- oh dear !
a nobody !
-- but would forget that such a be live , and would take their course in life without her .
From this bitterly sarcastic mood she pass into an angry one , in which she give vent to the remarkable expression that the worm would turn if trodden on ; and , after that , she yield to a soft regret , and say , if they have only give her their confidence , what might she not have have it in her power to suggest !
Taking advantage of this crisis in her feeling , the Expedition embrace her ; and she very soon have her glove on , and be on her way to John Peerybingle 's in a state of unimpeachable gentility ; with a paper parcel at her side contain a cap of state , almost a tall , and quite a stiff , a a mitre .
Then , there be Dot 's father and mother to come in another little chaise ; and they be behind their time ; and fear be entertain ; and there be much look out for them down the road ; and Mrs . Fielding always would look in the wrong and morally impossible direction ; and , be apprise thereof , hop she might take the liberty of look where she please .
At last they come ; a chubby little couple , jog along in a snug and comfortable little way that quite belong to the Dot family ; and Dot and her mother , side by side , be wonderful to see .
They be so like each other .
Then Dot 's mother have to renew her acquaintance with May 's mother ; and May 's mother always stand on her gentility ; and Dot 's mother never stand on anything but her active little foot .
And old Dot -- so to call Dot 's father , I forget it be n't his right name , but never mind -- take liberty , and shake hand at first sight , and seem to think a cap but so much starch and muslin , and do n't defer himself at all to the Indigo Trade , but say there be no help for it now ; and , in Mrs . Fielding 's sum up , be a good-natured kind of man -- but coarse , my dear .
I would n't have miss Dot , do the honour in her wedding-gown , my benison on her bright face !
for any money .
No !
nor the good Carrier , so jovial and so ruddy , at the bottom of the table .
Nor the brown , fresh sailor-fellow , and his handsome wife .
Nor any one among them .
To have miss the dinner would have be to miss a jolly and a stout a meal a man need eat ; and to have miss the overflow cup in which they drink The Wedding Day would have be the great miss of all .
After dinner Caleb sing the song about the Sparkling Bowl .
As I 'm a living man , hop to keep so for a year or two , he sing it through .
And , by-the-bye , a most unlooked-for incident occur , just a he finish the last verse .
There be a tap at the door ; and a man come stagger in , without say with your leave , or by your leave , with something heavy on his head .
Setting this down in the middle of the table , symmetrically in the centre of the nut and apple , he say : `` Mr. Tackleton 's compliment , and , a he have n't get no use for the cake himself , p ` rap you 'll eat it . ''
And , with those word , he walk off .
There be some surprise among the company , a you may imagine .
Mrs . Fielding , be a lady of infinite discernment , suggest that the cake be poison , and relate a narrative of a cake which , within her knowledge , have turn a seminary for young lady blue .
But she be overrule by acclamation ; and the cake be cut by May with much ceremony and rejoicing .
I do n't think any one have taste it , when there come another tap at the door , and the same man appear again , have under his arm a vast brown-paper parcel .
`` Mr. Tackleton 's compliment , and he 's send a few toy for the Babby .
They ai n't ugly . ''
After the delivery of which expression , he retire again .
The whole party would have experience great difficulty in find word for their astonishment , even if they have have ample time to seek them .
But they have none at all ; for the messenger have scarcely shut the door behind him , when there come another tap , and Tackleton himself walk in .
`` Mrs. Peerybingle ! ''
say the toy merchant , hat in hand , `` I 'm sorry .
I 'm more sorry than I be this morning .
I have have time to think of it .
John Peerybingle !
I be sour by disposition ; but I ca n't help be sweeten , more or less , by come face to face with such a man a you .
Caleb !
This unconscious little nurse give me a broken hint last night , of which I have find the thread .
I blush to think how easily I might have bind you and your daughter to me , and what a miserable idiot I be when I take her for one !
Friends , one and all , my house be very lonely to-night .
I have not so much a a Cricket on my Hearth .
I have scar them all away .
Be gracious to me : let me join this happy party ! ''
He be at home in five minute .
You never saw such a fellow .
What have he be do with himself all his life , never to have know before his great capacity of be jovial ?
Or what have the Fairies be do with him , to have effect such a change ?
`` John !
you wo n't send me home this evening , will you ? ''
whisper Dot .
He have be very near it , though .
There want but one living creature to make the party complete ; and , in the twinkling of an eye , there he be , very thirsty with hard running , and engage in hopeless endeavour to squeeze his head into a narrow pitcher .
He have go with the cart to it journey 's end , very much disgust with the absence of his master , and stupendously rebellious to the Deputy .
After linger about the stable for some little time , vainly attempt to incite the old horse to the mutinous act of return on his own account , he have walk into the taproom , and lay himself down before the fire .
But , suddenly yield to the conviction that the Deputy be a humbug , and must be abandon , he have get up again , turn tail , and come home .
There be a dance in the evening .
With which general mention of that recreation , I should have leave it alone , if I have not some reason to suppose that it be quite an original dance , and one of a most uncommon figure .
It be form in an odd way ; in this way .
Edward , that sailor-fellow -- a good free dash sort of fellow he be -- have be tell them various marvel concern parrot , and mine , and Mexicans , and gold dust , when all at once he take it in his head to jump up from his seat and propose a dance ; for Bertha 's harp be there , and she such a hand upon it a you seldom hear .
Dot -LRB- sly little piece of affectation when she choose -RRB- say her dancing day be over ; I think because the Carrier be smoke his pipe , and she like sit by him best .
Mrs . Fielding have no choice , of course , but to say her dancing day be over , after that ; and everybody say the same , except May ; May be ready .
So , May and Edward get up , amid great applause , to dance alone ; and Bertha play her lively tune .
Well !
if you 'll believe me , they have not be dance five minute , when suddenly the Carrier fling his pipe away , take Dot round the waist , dash out into the room , and start off with her , toe and heel , quite wonderfully .
Tackleton no sooner see this than he skim across to Mrs . Fielding , take her round the waist , and follow suit .
Old Dot no sooner see this than up he be , all alive , whisk off Mrs . Dot into the middle of the dance , and be foremost there .
Caleb no sooner see this than he clutch Tilly Slowboy by both hand , and go off at score ; Miss Slowboy , firm in the belief that dive hotly in among the other couple , and effect any number of concussion with them , be your only principle of foot it .
Hark !
how the Cricket join the music with it Chirp , Chirp , Chirp ; and how the kettle hum !
* * * * * But what be this ?
Even a I listen to them blithely , and turn towards Dot , for one last glimpse of a little figure very pleasant to me , she and the rest have vanish into air , and I be left alone .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Charles_Kingsley___The_Water-Babies.txt.out
THE WATER BABIES CHAPTER I `` I hear a thousand blend note , While in a grove I sate recline ; In that sweet mood when pleasant thought Bring sad thought to the mind .
`` To her fair work do Nature link The human soul that through me run ; And much it grieved my heart to think , What man have make of man . ''
WORDSWORTH .
Once upon a time there be a little chimney-sweep , and his name be Tom .
That be a short name , and you have hear it before , so you will not have much trouble in remember it .
He live in a great town in the North country , where there be plenty of chimney to sweep , and plenty of money for Tom to earn and his master to spend .
He could not read nor write , and do not care to do either ; and he never wash himself , for there be no water up the court where he live .
He have never be teach to say his prayer .
He never have hear of God , or of Christ , except in word which you never have hear , and which it would have be well if he have never hear .
He cry half his time , and laugh the other half .
He cry when he have to climb the dark flue , rub his poor knee and elbow raw ; and when the soot get into his eye , which it do every day in the week ; and when his master beat him , which he do every day in the week ; and when he have not enough to eat , which happen every day in the week likewise .
And he laugh the other half of the day , when he be toss halfpenny with the other boy , or play leap-frog over the post , or bowl stone at the horse ' leg a they trot by , which last be excellent fun , when there be a wall at hand behind which to hide .
As for chimney-sweeping , and be hungry , and be beat , he take all that for the way of the world , like the rain and snow and thunder , and stand manfully with his back to it till it be over , a his old donkey do to a hail - storm ; and then shake his ear and be as jolly a ever ; and thought of the fine time come , when he would be a man , and a master sweep , and sit in the public-house with a quart of beer and a long pipe , and play card for silver money , and wear velveteen and ankle-jacks , and keep a white bull-dog with one gray ear , and carry her puppy in his pocket , just like a man .
And he would have apprentice , one , two , three , if he could .
How he would bully them , and knock them about , just a his master do to him ; and make them carry home the soot sack , while he ride before them on his donkey , with a pipe in his mouth and a flower in his button-hole , like a king at the head of his army .
Yes , there be good time come ; and , when his master let him have a pull at the leaving of his beer , Tom be the jolly boy in the whole town .
One day a smart little groom rode into the court where Tom live .
Tom be just hide behind a wall , to heave half a brick at his horse 's leg , a be the custom of that country when they welcome stranger ; but the groom saw him , and halloed to him to know where Mr. Grimes , the chimney-sweep , live .
Now , Mr. Grimes be Tom 's own master , and Tom be a good man of business , and always civil to customer , so he put the half-brick down quietly behind the wall , and proceed to take order .
Mr. Grimes be to come up next morning to Sir John Harthover 's , at the Place , for his old chimney-sweep be go to prison , and the chimney want sweeping .
And so he ride away , not give Tom time to ask what the sweep have go to prison for , which be a matter of interest to Tom , a he have be in prison once or twice himself .
Moreover , the groom look so very neat and clean , with his drab gaiter , drab breech , drab jacket , snow-white tie with a smart pin in it , and clean round ruddy face , that Tom be offend and disgust at his appearance , and consider him a stuck-up fellow , who give himself airs because he wear smart clothes , and other people pay for them ; and go behind the wall to fetch the half - brick after all ; but do not , remember that he have come in the way of business , and be , a it be , under a flag of truce .
His master be so delighted at his new customer that he knock Tom down out of hand , and drink more beer that night than he usually do in two , in order to be sure of get up in time next morning ; for the more a man 's head ache when he wake , the more glad he be to turn out , and have a breath of fresh air .
And , when he do get up at four the next morning , he knock Tom down again , in order to teach him -LRB- a young gentleman use to be teach at public school -RRB- that he must be an extra good boy that day , a they be go to a very great house , and might make a very good thing of it , if they could but give satisfaction .
And Tom think so likewise , and , indeed , would have do and behave his best , even without be knock down .
For , of all place upon earth , Harthover Place -LRB- which he have never see -RRB- be the most wonderful , and , of all men on earth , Sir John -LRB- whom he have see , have be send to gaol by him twice -RRB- be the most awful .
Harthover Place be really a grand place , even for the rich North country ; with a house so large that in the frame-breaking riot , which Tom could just remember , the Duke of Wellington , and ten thousand soldier to match , be easily house therein ; at least , so Tom believe ; with a park full of deer , which Tom believe to be monster who be in the habit of eat child ; with mile of game-preserves , in which Mr. Grimes and the collier lad poach at time , on which occasion Tom saw pheasant , and wonder what they taste like ; with a noble salmon-river , in which Mr. Grimes and his friend would have like to poach ; but then they must have get into cold water , and that they do not like at all .
In short , Harthover be a grand place , and Sir John a grand old man , whom even Mr. Grimes respect ; for not only could he send Mr. Grimes to prison when he deserve it , a he do once or twice a week ; not only do he own all the land about for mile ; not only be he a jolly , honest , sensible squire , a ever keep a pack of hound , who would do what he think right by his neighbour , as well a get what he think right for himself ; but , what be more , he weigh full fifteen stone , be nobody know how many inch round the chest , and could have thrash Mr. Grimes himself in fair fight , which very few folk round there could do , and which , my dear little boy , would not have be right for him to do , a a great many thing be not which one both can do , and would like very much to do .
So Mr. Grimes touch his hat to him when he ride through the town , and call him a `` buirdly awd chap , '' and his young lady `` gradely lasses , '' which be two high compliment in the North country ; and think that that make up for his poaching Sir John 's pheasant ; whereby you may perceive that Mr. Grimes have not be to a properly-inspected Government National School .
Now , I dare say , you never get up at three o'clock on a midsummer morning .
Some people get up then because they want to catch salmon ; and some because they want to climb Alps ; and a great many more because they must , like Tom .
But , I assure you , that three o'clock on a midsummer morning be the pleasant time of all the twenty-four hour , and all the three hundred and sixty-five day ; and why every one do not get up then , I never could tell , save that they be all determine to spoil their nerve and their complexion by do all night what they might just as well do all day .
But Tom , instead of go out to dinner at half-past eight at night , and to a ball at ten , and finish off somewhere between twelve and four , go to bed at seven , when his master go to the public-house , and sleep like a dead pig ; for which reason he be as piert a a game-cock -LRB- who always get up early to wake the maid -RRB- , and just ready to get up when the fine gentleman and lady be just ready to go to bed .
So he and his master set out ; Grimes ride the donkey in front , and Tom and the brush walk behind ; out of the court , and up the street , past the closed window-shutters , and the winking weary policeman , and the roof all shin gray in the gray dawn .
They pass through the pitman 's village , all shut up and silent now , and through the turnpike ; and then the be out in the real country , and plod along the black dusty road , between black slag wall , with no sound but the groaning and thumping of the pit - engine in the next field .
But soon the road grow white , and the wall likewise ; and at the wall 's foot grow long grass and gay flower , all drench with dew ; and instead of the groaning of the pit-engine , they hear the skylark say his matins high up in the air , and the pit-bird warbling in the sedge , a he have warble all night long .
All else be silent .
For old Mrs. Earth be still fast asleep ; and , like many pretty people , she look still pretty asleep than awake .
The great elm-trees in the gold-green meadow be fast asleep above , and the cow fast asleep beneath them ; nay , the few cloud which be about be fast asleep likewise , and so tire that they have lie down on the earth to rest , in long white flake and bar , among the stem of the elm-trees , and along the top of the alder by the stream , wait for the sun to bid them rise and go about their day 's business in the clear blue overhead .
On they go ; and Tom look , and look , for he never have be so far into the country before ; and long to get over a gate , and pick buttercup , and look for bird ' nest in the hedge ; but Mr. Grimes be a man of business , and would not have heard of that .
Soon they come up with a poor Irishwoman , trudge along with a bundle at her back .
She have a gray shawl over her head , and a crimson madder petticoat ; so you may be sure she come from Galway .
She have neither shoe nor stocking , and limp along a if she be tire and footsore ; but she be a very tall handsome woman , with bright gray eye , and heavy black hair hang about her cheek .
And she take Mr. Grimes ' fancy so much , that when he come alongside he call out to her : `` This be a hard road for a gradely foot like that .
Will ye up , lass , and ride behind me ? ''
But , perhaps , she do not admire Mr. Grimes ' look and voice ; for she answer quietly : `` No , thank you : I 'd sooner walk with your little lad here . ''
`` You may please yourself , '' growl Grimes , and go on smoking .
So she walk beside Tom , and talk to him , and ask him where he live , and what he know , and all about himself , till Tom think he have never meet such a pleasant-spoken woman .
And she ask him , at last , whether he say his prayer !
and seem sad when he tell her that he know no prayer to say .
Then he ask her where she live , and she say far away by the sea .
And Tom ask her about the sea ; and she tell him how it roll and roar over the rock in winter night , and lay still in the bright summer day , for the child to bathe and play in it ; and many a story more , till Tom long to go and see the sea , and bathe in it likewise .
At last , at the bottom of a hill , they come to a spring ; not such a spring a you see here , which soak up out of a white gravel in the bog , among red fly-catchers , and pink bottle-heath , and sweet white orchis ; nor such a one a you may see , too , here , which bubble up under the warm sandbank in the hollow lane by the great tuft of lady fern , and make the sand dance reel at the bottom , day and night , all the year round ; not such a spring a either of those ; but a real North country limestone fountain , like one of those in Sicily or Greece , where the old heathen fancy the nymphs sat cool themselves the hot summer 's day , while the shepherd peep at them from behind the bush .
Out of a low cave of rock , at the foot of a limestone crag , the great fountain rise , quell , and bubbling , and gurgling , so clear that you could not tell where the water end and the air begin ; and run away under the road , a stream large enough to turn a mill ; among blue geranium , and golden globe-flower , and wild raspberry , and the bird-cherry with it tassel of snow .
And there Grimes stop , and look ; and Tom look too .
Tom be wonder whether anything live in that dark cave , and come out at night to fly in the meadow .
But Grimes be not wonder at all .
Without a word , he get off his donkey , and clamber over the low road wall , and kneel down , and begin dip his ugly head into the spring -- and very dirty he make it .
Tom be pick the flower a fast a he could .
The Irishwoman help him , and show him how to tie them up ; and a very pretty nosegay they have make between them .
But when he saw Grimes actually wash , he stop , quite astonish ; and when Grimes have finish , and begin shake his ear to dry them , he say : `` Why , master , I never saw you do that before . ''
`` Nor will again , most likely .
'T be n't for cleanliness I do it , but for coolness .
I 'd be ashamed to want wash every week or so , like any smutty collier lad . ''
`` I wish I might go and dip my head in , '' say poor little Tom .
`` It must be as good a put it under the town-pump ; and there be no beadle here to drive a chap away . ''
`` Thou come along , '' say Grimes ; `` what dost want with wash thyself ?
Thou do not drink half a gallon of beer last night , like me . ''
`` I do n't care for you , '' say naughty Tom , and run down to the stream , and begin wash his face .
Grimes be very sulky , because the woman prefer Tom 's company to his ; so he dash at him with horrid word , and tear him up from his knee , and begin beat him .
But Tom be accustom to that , and get his head safe between Mr. Grimes ' leg , and kick his shin with all his might .
`` Are you not ashamed of yourself , Thomas Grimes ? ''
cry the Irishwoman over the wall .
Grimes look up , startle at her know his name ; but all he answer be , `` No , nor never be yet ; '' and go on beating Tom .
`` True for you .
If you ever have be ashamed of yourself , you would have go over into Vendale long ago . ''
`` What do you know about Vendale ? ''
shout Grimes ; but he leave off beat Tom .
`` I know about Vendale , and about you , too .
I know , for instance , what happen in Aldermire Copse , by night , two year ago come Martinmas . ''
`` You do ? ''
shout Grimes ; and leave Tom , he climb up over the wall , and face the woman .
Tom think he be go to strike her ; but she look him too full and fierce in the face for that .
`` Yes ; I be there , '' say the Irishwoman quietly .
`` You be no Irishwoman , by your speech , '' say Grimes , after many bad word .
`` Never mind who I be .
I saw what I saw ; and if you strike that boy again , I can tell what I know . ''
Grimes seem quite cow , and get on his donkey without another word .
`` Stop ! ''
say the Irishwoman .
`` I have one more word for you both ; for you will both see me again before all be over .
Those that wish to be clean , clean they will be ; and those that wish to be foul , foul they will be .
Remember . ''
And she turn away , and through a gate into the meadow .
Grimes stand still a moment , like a man who have be stun .
Then he rush after her , shout , `` You come back . ''
But when he get into the meadow , the woman be not there .
Had she hide away ?
There be no place to hide in .
But Grimes look about , and Tom also , for he be as puzzle a Grimes himself at her disappear so suddenly ; but look where they would , she be not there .
Grimes come back again , as silent a a post , for he be a little frightened ; and , get on his donkey , fill a fresh pipe , and smoke away , leave Tom in peace .
And now they have go three mile and more , and come to Sir John 's lodge-gates .
Very grand lodge they be , with very grand iron gate and stone gate-posts , and on the top of each a most dreadful bogy , all teeth , horn , and tail , which be the crest which Sir John 's ancestor wear in the Wars of the Roses ; and very prudent men they be to wear it , for all their enemy must have run for their life at the very first sight of them .
Grimes rang at the gate , and out come a keeper on the spot , and open .
`` I be tell to expect thee , '' he say .
`` Now thou ` lt be so good a to keep to the main avenue , and not let me find a hare or a rabbit on thee when thou comest back .
I shall look sharp for one , I tell thee . ''
`` Not if it 's in the bottom of the soot-bag , '' quoth Grimes , and at that he laugh ; and the keeper laugh and say : `` If that 's thy sort , I may as well walk up with thee to the hall . ''
`` I think thou best have .
It 's thy business to see after thy game , man , and not mine . ''
So the keeper go with them ; and , to Tom 's surprise , he and Grimes chat together all the way quite pleasantly .
He do not know that a keeper be only a poacher turn outside in , and a poacher a keeper turn inside out .
They walk up a great lime avenue , a full mile long , and between their stem Tom peep tremble at the horn of the sleep deer , which stand up among the fern .
Tom have never see such enormous tree , and a he look up he fancy that the blue sky rest on their head .
But he be puzzle very much by a strange murmuring noise , which follow them all the way .
So much puzzle , that at last he take courage to ask the keeper what it be .
He speak very civilly , and call him Sir , for he be horribly afraid of him , which please the keeper , and he tell him that they be the bee about the lime flower .
`` What be bee ? ''
ask Tom .
`` What make honey . ''
`` What be honey ? ''
ask Tom .
`` Thou hold thy noise , '' say Grimes .
`` Let the boy be , '' say the keeper .
`` He 's a civil young chap now , and that 's more than he 'll be long if he bid with thee . ''
Grimes laugh , for he take that for a compliment .
`` I wish I be a keeper , '' say Tom , `` to live in such a beautiful place , and wear green velveteen , and have a real dog-whistle at my button , like you . ''
The keeper laugh ; he be a kind-hearted fellow enough .
`` Let well alone , lad , and ill too at time .
Thy life 's safe than mine at all event , eh , Mr. Grimes ? ''
And Grimes laugh again , and then the two men begin talk , quite low .
Tom could hear , though , that it be about some poaching fight ; and at last Grimes say surlily , `` Hast thou anything against me ? ''
`` Not now . ''
`` Then do n't ask me any question till thou hast , for I be a man of honour . ''
And at that they both laugh again , and think it a very good joke .
And by this time they be come up to the great iron gate in front of the house ; and Tom star through them at the rhododendron and azalea , which be all in flower ; and then at the house itself , and wonder how many chimney there be in it , and how long ago it be build , and what be the man 's name that build it , and whether he get much money for his job ?
These last be very difficult question to answer .
For Harthover have be build at ninety different time , and in nineteen different style , and look a if somebody have build a whole street of house of every imaginable shape , and then stir them together with a spoon .
For the attic be Anglo-Saxon .
The third door Norman .
The second Cinque-cento .
The first-floor Elizabethan .
The right wing Pure Doric .
The centre Early English , with a huge portico copy from the Parthenon .
The left wing pure Boeotian , which the country folk admire most of all , become it be just like the new barrack in the town , only three time a big .
The grand staircase be copy from the Catacombs at Rome .
The back staircase from the Tajmahal at Agra .
This be build by Sir John 's great-great-great-uncle , who win , in Lord Clive 's Indian Wars , plenty of money , plenty of wound , and no more taste than his better .
The cellar be copy from the cave of Elephanta .
The office from the Pavilion at Brighton .
And the rest from nothing in heaven , or earth , or under the earth .
So that Harthover House be a great puzzle to antiquarian , and a thorough Naboth 's vineyard to critic , and architect , and all person who like meddle with other men 's business , and spend other men 's money .
So they be all set upon poor Sir John , year after year , and try to talk him into spend a hundred thousand pound or so , in building , to please them and not himself .
But he always put them off , like a canny North-countryman a he be .
One want him to build a Gothic house , but he say he be no Goth ; and another to build an Elizabethan , but he say he live under good Queen Victoria , and not good Queen Bess ; and another be bold enough to tell him that his house be ugly , but he say he live inside it , and not outside ; and another , that there be no unity in it , but he say that that be just why he like the old place .
For he like to see how each Sir John , and Sir Hugh , and Sir Ralph , and Sir Randal , have leave his mark upon the place , each after his own taste ; and he have no more notion of disturb his ancestor ' work than of disturb their graf .
For now the house look like a real live house , that have a history , and have grow and grow a the world grow ; and that it be only an upstart fellow who do not know who his own grandfather be , who would change it for some spick and span new Gothic or Elizabethan thing , which look a if it bad be all spawn in a night , a mushroom be .
From which you may collect -LRB- if you have wit enough -RRB- that Sir John be a very sound-headed , sound-hearted squire , and just the man to keep the country side in order , and show good sport with his hound .
But Tom and his master do not go in through the great iron gate , a if they have be Dukes or Bishops , but round the back way , and a very long way round it be ; and into a little back-door , where the ash-boy let them in , yawn horribly ; and then in a passage the housekeeper meet them , in such a flowered chintz dressing-gown , that Tom mistake her for My Lady herself , and she give Grimes solemn order about `` You will take care of this , and take care of that , '' a if he be go up the chimney , and not Tom .
And Grimes listen , and say every now and then , under his voice , `` You 'll mind that , you little beggar ? ''
and Tom do mind , all at least that he could .
And then the housekeeper turn them into a grand room , all cover up in sheet of brown paper , and bid them begin , in a lofty and tremendous voice ; and so after a whimper or two , and a kick from his master , into the grate Tom go , and up the chimney , while a housemaid stayed in the room to watch the furniture ; to whom Mr. Grimes pay many playful and chivalrous compliment , but meet with very slight encouragement in return .
How many chimney Tom sweep I can not say ; but he sweep so many that he get quite tire , and puzzle too , for they be not like the town flue to which he be accustom , but such a you would find -- if you would only get up them and look , which perhaps you would not like to do -- in old country-houses , large and crooked chimney , which have be alter again and again , till they run one into another , anastomose -LRB- a Professor Owen would say -RRB- considerably .
So Tom fairly lose his way in them ; not that he care much for that , though he be in pitchy darkness , for he be as much at home in a chimney a a mole be underground ; but at last , come down a he think the right chimney , he come down the wrong one , and find himself stand on the hearthrug in a room the like of which he have never see before .
Tom have never see the like .
He have never be in gentlefolk ' room but when the carpet be all up , and the curtain down , and the furniture huddle together under a cloth , and the picture cover with apron and duster ; and he have often enough wonder what the room be like when they be all ready for the quality to sit in .
And now he saw , and he think the sight very pretty .
The room be all dress in white , -- white window-curtains , white bed-curtains , white furniture , and white wall , with just a few line of pink here and there .
The carpet be all over gay little flower ; and the wall be hang with picture in gilt frame , which amuse Tom very much .
There be picture of lady and gentleman , and picture of horse and dog .
The horse he like ; but the dog he do not care for much , for there be no bull-dogs among them , not even a terrier .
But the two picture which take his fancy most be , one a man in long garment , with little child and their mother round him , who be lay his hand upon the child 's head .
That be a very pretty picture , Tom think , to hang in a lady 's room .
For he could see that it be a lady 's room by the dress which lay about .
The other picture be that of a man nail to a cross , which surprise Tom much .
He fancy that he have see something like it in a shop-window .
But why be it there ?
`` Poor man , '' think Tom , `` and he look so kind and quiet .
But why should the lady have such a sad picture a that in her room ?
Perhaps it be some kinsman of hers , who have be murder by the savage in foreign part , and she keep it there for a remembrance . ''
And Tom felt sad , and awe , and turn to look at something else .
The next thing he saw , and that too puzzle him , be a wash - stand , with ewer and basin , and soap and brush , and towel , and a large bath full of clean water -- what a heap of thing all for wash !
`` She must be a very dirty lady , '' think Tom , `` by my master 's rule , to want a much scrubbing a all that .
But she must be very cunning to put the dirt out of the way so well afterwards , for I do n't see a speck about the room , not even on the very towels . ''
And then , look toward the bed , he saw that dirty lady , and hold his breath with astonishment .
Under the snow-white coverlet , upon the snow-white pillow , lay the most beautiful little girl that Tom have ever see .
Her cheek be almost as white a the pillow , and her hair be like thread of gold spread all about over the bed .
She might have be as old a Tom , or maybe a year or two old ; but Tom do not think of that .
He think only of her delicate skin and golden hair , and wonder whether she be a real live person , or one of the wax dolls he have see in the shop .
But when he saw her breathe , he make up his mind that she be alive , and stand star at her , a if she have be an angel out of heaven .
No .
She can not be dirty .
She never could have be dirty , thought Tom to himself .
And then he think , `` And be all people like that when they be wash ? ''
And he look at his own wrist , and try to rub the soot off , and wonder whether it ever would come off .
`` Certainly I should look much pretty then , if I grow at all like her . ''
And look round , he suddenly saw , stand close to him , a little ugly , black , ragged figure , with bleared eye and grin white teeth .
He turn on it angrily .
What do such a little black ape want in that sweet young lady 's room ?
And behold , it be himself , reflect in a great mirror , the like of which Tom have never see before .
And Tom , for the first time in his life , find out that he be dirty ; and burst into tear with shame and anger ; and turn to sneak up the chimney again and hide ; and upset the fender and throw the fire-irons down , with a noise a of ten thousand tin kettle tie to ten thousand mad dog ' tail .
Up jump the little white lady in her bed , and , see Tom , scream as shrill a any peacock .
In rush a stout old nurse from the next room , and see Tom likewise , make up her mind that he have come to rob , plunder , destroy , and burn ; and dash at him , a he lay over the fender , so fast that she catch him by the jacket .
But she do not hold him .
Tom have be in a policeman 's hand many a time , and out of them too , what be more ; and he would have be ashamed to face his friend for ever if he have be stupid enough to be catch by an old woman ; so he double under the good lady 's arm , across the room , and out of the window in a moment .
He do not need to drop out , though he would have do so bravely enough .
Nor even to let himself down a spout , which would have be an old game to him ; for once he get up by a spout to the church roof , he say to take jackdaw ' egg , but the policeman say to steal lead ; and , when he be see on high , sit there till the sun get too hot , and come down by another spout , leave the policeman to go back to the stationhouse and eat their dinner .
But all under the window spread a tree , with great leaf and sweet white flower , almost as big a his head .
It be magnolia , I suppose ; but Tom know nothing about that , and care less ; for down the tree he go , like a cat , and across the garden lawn , and over the iron railing and up the park towards the wood , leave the old nurse to scream murder and fire at the window .
The under gardener , mowing , saw Tom , and throw down his scythe ; catch his leg in it , and cut his shin open , whereby he keep his bed for a week ; but in his hurry he never know it , and give chase to poor Tom .
The dairymaid hear the noise , get the churn between her knee , and tumble over it , spill all the cream ; and yet she jump up , and give chase to Tom .
A groom cleaning Sir John 's hack at the stable let him go loose , whereby he kick himself lame in five minute ; but he run out and give chase to Tom .
Grimes upset the soot-sack in the new-gravelled yard , and spoil it all utterly ; but he run out and give chase to Tom .
The old steward open the park-gate in such a hurry , that he hang up his pony 's chin upon the spike , and , for aught I know , it hang there still ; but he jump off , and give chase to Tom .
The ploughman leave his horse at the headland , and one jumped over the fence , and pull the other into the ditch , plough and all ; but he run on , and give chase to Tom .
The keeper , who be take a stoat out of a trap , let the stoat go , and catch his own finger ; but he jump up , and run after Tom ; and consider what he say , and how he look , I should have be sorry for Tom if he have catch him .
Sir John look out of his study window -LRB- for he be an early old gentleman -RRB- and up at the nurse , and a marten drop mud in his eye , so that he have at last to send for the doctor ; and yet he run out , and give chase to Tom .
The Irishwoman , too , be walk up to the house to beg , -- she must have get round by some byway -- but she throw away her bundle , and give chase to Tom likewise .
Only my Lady do not give chase ; for when she have put her head out of the window , her night-wig fell into the garden , and she have to ring up her lady 's - maid , and send her down for it privately , which quite put her out of the running , so that she come in nowhere , and be consequently not place .
In a word , never be there hear at Hall Place -- not even when the fox be kill in the conservatory , among acre of broken glass , and ton of smashed flower-pots -- such a noise , row , hubbub , babel , shindy , hullabaloo , stramash , charivari , and total contempt of dignity , repose , and order , a that day , when Grimes , gardener , the groom , the dairymaid , Sir John , the steward , the ploughman , the keeper , and the Irishwoman , all run up the park , shouting , `` Stop thief , '' in the belief that Tom have at least a thousand pound ' worth of jewel in his empty pocket ; and the very magpie and jay follow Tom up , screak and scream , a if he be a hunted fox , begin to droop his brush .
And all the while poor Tom paddle up the park with his little bare foot , like a small black gorilla flee to the forest .
Alas for him !
there be no big father gorilla therein to take his part -- to scratch out the gardener 's inside with one paw , toss the dairymaid into a tree with another , and wrench off Sir John 's head with a third , while he crack the keeper 's skull with his teeth as easily a if it have be a cocoa-nut or a paving-stone .
However , Tom do not remember ever have have a father ; so he do not look for one , and expect to have to take care of himself ; while a for running , he could keep up for a couple of mile with any stage-coach , if there be the chance of a copper or a cigar - end , and turn coach-wheels on his hand and foot ten time follow , which be more than you can do .
Wherefore his pursuer find it very difficult to catch him ; and we will hope that they do not catch him at all .
Tom , of course , make for the wood .
He have never be in a wood in his life ; but he be sharp enough to know that he might hide in a bush , or swarm up a tree , and , altogether , have more chance there than in the open .
If he have not know that , he would have be foolish than a mouse or a minnow .
But when he get into the wood , he find it a very different sort of place from what he have fancy .
He push into a thick cover of rhododendron , and find himself at once catch in a trap .
The bough lay hold of his leg and arm , poke him in his face and his stomach , make him shut his eye tight -LRB- though that be no great loss , for he could not see at best a yard before his nose -RRB- ; and when he get through the rhododendron , the hassock-grass and sedge tumble him over , and cut his poor little finger afterwards most spitefully ; the birch birch him as soundly a if he have be a nobleman at Eton , and over the face too -LRB- which be not fair swish a all brave boy will agree -RRB- ; and the lawyer trip him up , and tear his shin a if they have shark ' teeth -- which lawyer be likely enough to have .
`` I must get out of this , '' think Tom , `` or I shall stay here till somebody come to help me -- which be just what I do n't want . ''
But how to get out be the difficult matter .
And indeed I do n't think he would ever have get out at all , but have stay there till the cock-robins cover him with leaf , if he have not suddenly run his head against a wall .
Now run your head against a wall be not pleasant , especially if it be a loose wall , with the stone all set on edge , and a sharp cornered one hit you between the eye and make you see all manner of beautiful star .
The star be very beautiful , certainly ; but unfortunately they go in the twenty-thousandth part of a split second , and the pain which come after them do not .
And so Tom hurt his head ; but he be a brave boy , and do not mind that a penny .
He guess that over the wall the cover would end ; and up it he go , and over like a squirrel .
And there he be , out on the great grouse-moors , which the country folk call Harthover Fell -- heather and bog and rock , stretch away and up , up to the very sky .
Now , Tom be a cunning little fellow -- as cunning a an old Exmoor stag .
Why not ?
Though he be but ten year old , he have live longer than most stag , and have more wit to start with into the bargain .
He know as well a a stag , that if he back he might throw the hound out .
So the first thing he do when he be over the wall be to make the neat double sharp to his right , and run along under the wall for nearly half a mile .
Whereby Sir John , and the keeper , and the steward , and the gardener , and the ploughman , and the dairymaid , and all the hue - and-cry together , go on ahead half a mile in the very opposite direction , and inside the wall , leave him a mile off on the outside ; while Tom hear their shout die away in the wood and chuckle to himself merrily .
At last he come to a dip in the land , and go to the bottom of it , and then he turn bravely away from the wall and up the moor ; for he know that he have put a hill between him and his enemy , and could go on without their seeing him .
But the Irishwoman , alone of them all , have see which way Tom go .
She have keep ahead of every one the whole time ; and yet she neither walk nor run .
She go along quite smoothly and gracefully , while her foot twinkle past each other so fast that you could not see which be foremost ; till every one ask the other who the strange woman be ; and all agree , for want of anything well to say , that she must be in league with Tom .
But when she come to the plantation , they lose sight of her ; and they could do no le .
For she go quietly over the wall after Tom , and follow him wherever he go .
Sir John and the rest saw no more of her ; and out of sight be out of mind .
And now Tom be right away into the heather , over just such a moor a those in which you have be breed , except that there be rock and stone lie about everywhere , and that , instead of the moor grow flat a he go upwards , it grow more and more broken and hilly , but not so rough but that little Tom could jog along well enough , and find time , too , to stare about at the strange place , which be like a new world to him .
He saw great spider there , with crown and cross mark on their back , who sit in the middle of their web , and when they saw Tom come , shake them so fast that they become invisible .
Then he saw lizard , brown and gray and green , and think they be snake , and would sting him ; but they be as much frighten a he , and shoot away into the heath .
And then , under a rock , he saw a pretty sight -- a great brown , sharp-nosed creature , with a white tag to her brush , and round her four or five smutty little cub , the funny fellow Tom ever saw .
She lay on her back , roll about , and stretch out her leg and head and tail in the bright sunshine ; and the cub jump over her , and run round her , and nibble her paw , and lug her about by the tail ; and she seem to enjoy it mightily .
But one selfish little fellow steal away from the rest to a dead crow close by , and drag it off to hide it , though it be nearly as big a he be .
Whereat all his little brother set off after him in full cry , and saw Tom ; and then all run back , and up jump Mrs. Vixen , and catch one up in her mouth , and the rest toddle after her , and into a dark crack in the rock ; and there be an end of the show .
And next he have a fright ; for , a he scramble up a sandy brow -- whirr-poof-poof-cock-cock-kick -- something go off in his face , with a most horrid noise .
He think the ground have blow up , and the end of the world come .
And when he open his eye -LRB- for he shut them very tight -RRB- it be only an old cock-grouse , who have be wash himself in sand , like an Arab , for want of water ; and who , when Tom have all but tread on him , jump up with a noise like the express train , leave his wife and child to shift for themselves , like an old coward , and go off , scream `` Cur-ru-u-uck , cur-ru-u-uck -- murder , thief , fire -- cur-u-uck-cock-kick -- the end of the world be come -- kick-kick - cock-kick . ''
He be always fancy that the end of the world be come , when anything happen which be farther off than the end of his own nose .
But the end of the world be not come , any more than the twelfth of August be ; though the old grouse-cock be quite certain of it .
So the old grouse come back to his wife and family an hour afterwards , and say solemnly , `` Cock-cock-kick ; my dear , the end of the world be not quite come ; but I assure you it be come the day after to-morrow -- cock . ''
But his wife have hear that so often that she know all about it , and a little more .
And , besides , she be the mother of a family , and have seven little poults to wash and fee every day ; and that make her very practical , and a little sharp-tempered ; so all she answer be : `` Kick-kick-kick -- go and catch spider , go and catch spider -- kick . ''
So Tom go on and on , he hardly know why ; but he like the great wide strange place , and the cool fresh bracing air .
But he go more and more slowly a he get high up the hill ; for now the ground grow very bad indeed .
Instead of soft turf and springy heather , he meet great patch of flat limestone rock , just like ill-made pavement , with deep crack between the stone and ledge , fill with fern ; so he have to hop from stone to stone , and now and then he slip in between , and hurt his little bare toe , though they be tolerably tough one ; but still he would go on and up , he could not tell why .
What would Tom have say if he have see , walk over the moor behind him , the very same Irishwoman who have take his part upon the road ?
But whether it be that he look too little behind him , or whether it be that she keep out of sight behind the rock and knoll , he never saw her , though she saw him .
And now he begin to get a little hungry , and very thirsty ; for he have run a long way , and the sun have rise high in heaven , and the rock be as hot a an oven , and the air dance reel over it , a it do over a limekiln , till everything round seem quivering and melt in the glare .
But he could see nothing to eat anywhere , and still less to drink .
The heath be full of bilberry and whimberries ; but they be only in flower yet , for it be June .
And a for water ; who can find that on the top of a limestone rock ?
Now and then he pass by a deep dark swallow-hole , go down into the earth , a if it be the chimney of some dwarf house underground ; and more than once , a he pass , he could hear water fall , trickle , tinkle , many many foot below .
How he long to get down to it , and cool his poor baked lip !
But , brave little chimney-sweep a he be , he dare not climb down such chimney a those .
So he go on and on , till his head spun round with the heat , and he think he hear church-bells ring a long way off .
`` Ah ! ''
he think , `` where there be a church there will be house and people ; and , perhaps , some one will give me a bit and a sup . ''
So he set off again , to look for the church ; for he be sure that he hear the bell quite plain .
And in a minute more , when he look round , he stop again , and say , `` Why , what a big place the world be ! ''
And so it be ; for , from the top of the mountain he could see -- what could he not see ?
Behind him , far below , be Harthover , and the dark wood , and the shin salmon river ; and on his left , far below , be the town , and the smoking chimney of the colliery ; and far , far away , the river widen to the shin sea ; and little white speck , which be ship , lay on it bosom .
Before him lay , spread out like a map , great plain , and farm , and village , amid dark knot of tree .
They all seem at his very foot ; but he have sense to see that they be long mile away .
And to his right rise moor after moor , hill after hill , till they fade away , blue into blue sky .
But between him and those moor , and really at his very foot , lay something , to which , as soon a Tom saw it , he determine to go , for that be the place for him .
A deep , deep green and rocky valley , very narrow , and fill with wood ; but through the wood , hundred of foot below him , he could see a clear stream glance .
Oh , if he could but get down to that stream !
Then , by the stream , he saw the roof of a little cottage , and a little garden set out in square and bed .
And there be a tiny little red thing move in the garden , no big than a fly .
As Tom look down , he saw that it be a woman in a red petticoat .
Ah !
perhaps she would give him something to eat .
And there be the church-bells ring again .
Surely there must be a village down there .
Well , nobody would know him , or what have happen at the Place .
The news could not have get there yet , even if Sir John have set all the policeman in the county after him ; and he could get down there in five minute .
Tom be quite right about the hue-and-cry not have get thither ; for he have come without know it , the best part of ten mile from Harthover ; but he be wrong about get down in five minute , for the cottage be more than a mile off , and a good thousand foot below .
However , down he go ; like a brave little man a he be , though he be very footsore , and tire , and hungry , and thirsty ; while the church-bells ring so loud , he begin to think that they must be inside his own head , and the river chime and tinkle far below ; and this be the song which it sing : - Clear and cool , clear and cool , By laugh shallow , and dream pool ; Cool and clear , cool and clear , By shin shingle , and foam wear ; Under the crag where the ouzel sings , And the ivied wall where the church-bell ring , Undefiled , for the undefiled ; Play by me , bathe in me , mother and child .
Dank and foul , dank and foul , By the smoky town in it murky cowl ; Foul and dank , foul and dank , By wharf and sewer and slimy bank ; Darker and darker the farther I go , Baser and baser the rich I grow ; Who dare sport with the sin-defiled ?
Shrink from me , turn from me , mother and child .
Strong and free , strong and free , The floodgate be open , away to the sea , Free and strong , free and strong , Cleansing my stream a I hurry along , To the golden sand , and the leaping bar , And the taintless tide that await me afar .
As I lose myself in the infinite main , Like a soul that have sin and be pardon again .
Undefiled , for the undefiled ; Play by me , bathe in me , mother and child .
So Tom go down ; and all the while he never saw the Irishwoman go down behind him .
CHAPTER II `` And be there care in heaven ?
and be there love In heavenly spirit to these creature base That may compassion of their evil move ?
There be : - else much more wretched be the case Of men than beast : But oh !
the exceed grace Of Highest God that love His creature so , And all His work with mercy doth embrace , That bless Angels He send to and fro , To serve to wicked man , to serve His wicked foe ! ''
SPENSER .
A mile off , and a thousand foot down .
So Tom find it ; though it seem a if he could have chuck a pebble on to the back of the woman in the red petticoat who be weed in the garden , or even across the dale to the rock beyond .
For the bottom of the valley be just one field broad , and on the other side run the stream ; and above it , gray crag , gray down , gray stair , gray moor wall up to heaven .
A quiet , silent , rich , happy place ; a narrow crack cut deep into the earth ; so deep , and so out of the way , that the bad bogy can hardly find it out .
The name of the place be Vendale ; and if you want to see it for yourself , you must go up into the High Craven , and search from Bolland Forest north by Ingleborough , to the Nine Standards and Cross Fell ; and if you have not find it , you must turn south , and search the Lake Mountains , down to Scaw Fell and the sea ; and then , if you have not find it , you must go northward again by merry Carlisle , and search the Cheviots all across , from Annan Water to Berwick Law ; and then , whether you have find Vendale or not , you will have find such a country , and such a people , a ought to make you proud of be a British boy .
So Tom go to go down ; and first he go down three hundred foot of steep heather , mix up with loose brown grindstone , as rough a a file ; which be not pleasant to his poor little heel , a he come bump , stump , jump , down the steep .
And still he think he could throw a stone into the garden .
Then he go down three hundred foot of lime-stone terrace , one below the other , as straight a if a carpenter have rule them with his ruler and then cut them out with his chisel .
There be no heath there , but - First , a little grass slope , cover with the prettiest flower , rockrose and saxifrage , and thyme and basil , and all sort of sweet herb .
Then bump down a two-foot step of limestone .
Then another bit of grass and flower .
Then bump down a one-foot step .
Then another bit of grass and flower for fifty yard , as steep a the house-roof , where he have to slide down on his dear little tail .
Then another step of stone , ten foot high ; and there he have to stop himself , and crawl along the edge to find a crack ; for if he have roll over , he would have roll right into the old woman 's garden , and frighten her out of her wit .
Then , when he have find a dark narrow crack , full of green-stalked fern , such a hang in the basket in the drawing-room , and have crawl down through it , with knee and elbow , a he would down a chimney , there be another grass slope , and another step , and so on , till -- oh , dear me !
I wish it be all over ; and so do he .
And yet he think he could throw a stone into the old woman 's garden .
At last he come to a bank of beautiful shrub ; white-beam with it great silver-backed leaf , and mountain-ash , and oak ; and below them cliff and crag , cliff and crag , with great bed of crown-ferns and wood-sedge ; while through the shrub he could see the stream sparkling , and hear it murmur on the white pebble .
He do not know that it be three hundred foot below .
You would have be giddy , perhaps , at look down : but Tom be not .
He be a brave little chimney-sweep ; and when he find himself on the top of a high cliff , instead of sit down and cry for his baba -LRB- though he never have have any baba to cry for -RRB- , he say , `` Ah , this will just suit me ! ''
though he be very tired ; and down he go , by stock and stone , sedge and ledge , bush and rush , a if he have be bear a jolly little black ape , with four hand instead of two .
And all the while he never saw the Irishwoman come down behind him .
But he be get terribly tire now .
The burn sun on the fell have suck him up ; but the damp heat of the woody crag suck him up still more ; and the perspiration run out of the end of his finger and toe , and wash him clean than he have be for a whole year .
But , of course , he dirty everything , terribly a he go .
There have be a great black smudge all down the crag ever since .
And there have be more black beetle in Vendale since than ever be know before ; all , of course , owe to Tom 's have black the original papa of them all , just a he be set off to be marry , with a sky-blue coat and scarlet leggins , as smart a a gardener 's dog with a polyanthus in his mouth .
At last he get to the bottom .
But , behold , it be not the bottom -- a people usually find when they be come down a mountain .
For at the foot of the crag be heap and heap of fall limestone of every size from that of your head to that of a stage-waggon , with hole between them full of sweet heath-fern ; and before Tom get through them , he be out in the bright sunshine again ; and then he felt , once for all and suddenly , a people generally do , that he be b-e-a-t , beat .
You must expect to be beat a few time in your life , little man , if you live such a life a a man ought to live , let you be a strong and healthy a you may : and when you be , you will find it a very ugly feeling .
I hope that that day you may have a stout staunch friend by you who be not beat ; for , if you have not , you have best lie where you be , and wait for good time , a poor Tom do .
He could not get on .
The sun be burn , and yet he felt chill all over .
He be quite empty , and yet he felt quite sick .
There be but two hundred yard of smooth pasture between him and the cottage , and yet he could not walk down it .
He could hear the stream murmur only one field beyond it , and yet it seem to him a if it be a hundred mile off .
He lay down on the grass till the beetle run over him , and the fly settle on his nose .
I do n't know when he would have get up again , if the gnat and the midge have not take compassion on him .
But the gnat blow their trumpet so loud in his ear , and the midge nibble so at his hand and face wherever they could find a place free from soot , that at last he wake up , and stumble away , down over a low wall , and into a narrow road , and up to the cottage-door .
And a neat pretty cottage it be , with clipped yew hedge all round the garden , and yew inside too , cut into peacock and trumpet and teapot and all kind of queer shape .
And out of the open door come a noise like that of the frog on the Great-A , when they know that it be go to be scorch hot to-morrow -- and how they know that I do n't know , and you do n't know , and nobody know .
He come slowly up to the open door , which be all hung round with clematis and rose ; and then peep in , half afraid .
And there sit by the empty fireplace , which be fill with a pot of sweet herb , the nice old woman that ever be see , in her red petticoat , and short dimity bedgown , and clean white cap , with a black silk handkerchief over it , tie under her chin .
At her foot sit the grandfather of all the cat ; and opposite her sat , on two bench , twelve or fourteen neat , rosy , chubby little child , learn their Chris-cross-row ; and gabble enough they make about it .
Such a pleasant cottage it be , with a shiny clean stone floor , and curious old print on the wall , and an old black oak sideboard full of bright pewter and brass dish , and a cuckoo clock in the corner , which begin shout as soon a Tom appear : not that it be frighten at Tom , but that it be just eleven o'clock .
All the child start at Tom 's dirty black figure , -- the girl begin to cry , and the boy begin to laugh , and all point at him rudely enough ; but Tom be too tire to care for that .
`` What art thou , and what dost want ? ''
cry the old dame .
`` A chimney-sweep !
Away with thee !
I 'll have no sweep here . ''
`` Water , '' say poor little Tom , quite faint .
`` Water ?
There 's plenty i ' the beck , '' she say , quite sharply .
`` But I ca n't get there ; I 'm most clemmed with hunger and drought . ''
And Tom sink down upon the door-step , and lay his head against the post .
And the old dame look at him through her spectacle one minute , and two , and three ; and then she say , `` He 's sick ; and a bairn 's a bairn , sweep or none . ''
`` Water , '' say Tom .
`` God forgive me ! ''
and she put by her spectacle , and rise , and come to Tom .
`` Water 's bad for thee ; I 'll give thee milk . ''
And she toddle off into the next room , and bring a cup of milk and a bit of bread .
Tom drink the milk off at one draught , and then look up , revive .
`` Where didst come from ? ''
say the dame .
`` Over Fell , there , '' say Tom , and point up into the sky .
`` Over Harthover ?
and down Lewthwaite Crag ?
Art sure thou art not lie ? ''
`` Why should I ? ''
say Tom , and lean his head against the post .
`` And how get ye up there ? ''
`` I come over from the Place ; '' and Tom be so tired and desperate he have no heart or time to think of a story , so he tell all the truth in a few word .
`` Bless thy little heart !
And thou hast not be steal , then ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Bless thy little heart !
and I 'll warrant not .
Why , God 's guide the bairn , because he be innocent !
Away from the Place , and over Harthover Fell , and down Lewthwaite Crag !
Who ever hear the like , if God have n't lead him ?
Why dost not eat thy bread ? ''
`` I ca n't . ''
`` It 's good enough , for I make it myself . ''
`` I ca n't , '' say Tom , and he lay his head on his knee , and then ask - `` Is it Sunday ? ''
`` No , then ; why should it be ? ''
`` Because I hear the church-bells ring so . ''
`` Bless thy pretty heart !
The bairn 's sick .
Come wi ' me , and I 'll hap thee up somewhere .
If thou wert a bit clean I 'd put thee in my own bed , for the Lord 's sake .
But come along here . ''
But when Tom try to get up , he be so tired and giddy that she have to help him and lead him .
She put him in an outhouse upon soft sweet hay and an old rug , and bid him sleep off his walk , and she would come to him when school be over , in an hour 's time .
And so she go in again , expect Tom to fall fast asleep at once .
But Tom do not fall asleep .
Instead of it he turn and toss and kick about in the strange way , and felt so hot all over that he long to get into the river and cool himself ; and then he fell half asleep , and dreamt that he hear the little white lady cry to him , `` Oh , you 're so dirty ; go and be wash ; '' and then that he hear the Irishwoman saying , `` Those that wish to be clean , clean they will be . ''
And then he hear the church-bells ring so loud , close to him too , that he be sure it must be Sunday , in spite of what the old dame have say ; and he would go to church , and see what a church be like inside , for he have never be in one , poor little fellow , in all his life .
But the people would never let him come in , all over soot and dirt like that .
He must go to the river and wash first .
And he say out loud again and again , though be half asleep he do not know it , `` I must be clean , I must be clean . ''
And all of a sudden he find himself , not in the outhouse on the hay , but in the middle of a meadow , over the road , with the stream just before him , say continually , `` I must be clean , I must be clean . ''
He have get there on his own leg , between sleep and awake , a child will often get out of bed , and go about the room , when they be not quite well .
But he be not a bit surprised , and go on to the bank of the brook , and lay down on the grass , and look into the clear , clear limestone water , with every pebble at the bottom bright and clean , while the little silver trout dash about in fright at the sight of his black face ; and he dip his hand in and find it so cool , cool , cool ; and he say , `` I will be a fish ; I will swim in the water ; I must be clean , I must be clean . ''
So he pull off all his clothes in such haste that he tear some of them , which be easy enough with such ragged old thing .
And he put his poor hot sore foot into the water ; and then his leg ; and the farther he go in , the more the church-bells rang in his head .
`` Ah , '' say Tom , `` I must be quick and wash myself ; the bell be ring quite loud now ; and they will stop soon , and then the door will be shut , and I shall never be able to get in at all . ''
Tom be mistake : for in England the church door be leave open all service time , for everybody who like to come in , Churchman or Dissenter ; ay , even if he be a Turk or a Heathen ; and if any man dare to turn him out , as long a he behave quietly , the good old English law would punish that man , a he deserve , for order any peaceable person out of God 's house , which belong to all alike .
But Tom do not know that , any more than he know a great deal more which people ought to know .
And all the while he never saw the Irishwoman , not behind him this time , but before .
For just before he come to the river side , she have stept down into the cool clear water ; and her shawl and her petticoat float off her , and the green water-weeds float round her side , and the white water-lilies floated round her head , and the fairy of the stream come up from the bottom and bore her away and down upon their arm ; for she be the Queen of them all ; and perhaps of more besides .
`` Where have you be ? ''
they ask her .
`` I have be smooth sick folk ' pillow , and whisper sweet dream into their ear ; open cottage casement , to let out the stifle air ; coax little child away from gutter , and foul pool where fever breed ; turn woman from the gin-shop door , and stay men 's hand a they be go to strike their wife ; do all I can to help those who will not help themselves : and little enough that be , and weary work for me .
But I have bring you a new little brother , and watch him safe all the way here . ''
Then all the fairy laugh for joy at the thought that they have a little brother come .
`` But mind , maiden , he must not see you , or know that you be here .
He be but a savage now , and like the beast which perish ; and from the beast which perish he must learn .
So you must not play with him , or speak to him , or let him see you : but only keep him from be harm . ''
Then the fairy be sad , because they could not play with their new brother , but they always do what they be tell .
And their Queen float away down the river ; and whither she go , thither she come .
But all this Tom , of course , never saw or heard : and perhaps if he have it would have make little difference in the story ; for be so hot and thirsty , and long so to be clean for once , that he tumble himself as quick a he could into the clear cool stream .
And he have not be in it two minute before he fell fast asleep , into the quiet , sunny , cosy sleep that ever he have in his life ; and he dream about the green meadow by which he have walk that morning , and the tall elm-trees , and the sleeping cow ; and after that he dream of nothing at all .
The reason of his fall into such a delightful sleep be very simple ; and yet hardly any one have find it out .
It be merely that the fairy take him .
Some people think that there be no fairy .
Cousin Cramchild tell little folk so in his Conversations .
Well , perhaps there be none -- in Boston , U.S. , where he be raise .
There be only a clumsy lot of spirit there , who ca n't make people hear without thump on the table : but they get their living thereby , and I suppose that be all they want .
And Aunt Agitate , in her Arguments on political economy , say there be none .
Well , perhaps there be none -- in her political economy .
But it be a wide world , my little man -- and thank Heaven for it , for else , between crinoline and theory , some of u would get squash -- and plenty of room in it for fairy , without people see them ; unless , of course , they look in the right place .
The most wonderful and the strong thing in the world , you know , be just the thing which no one can see .
There be life in you ; and it be the life in you which make you grow , and move , and think : and yet you ca n't see it .
And there be steam in a steam-engine ; and that be what make it move : and yet you ca n't see it ; and so there may be fairy in the world , and they may be just what make the world go round to the old tune of `` C'est l'amour , l'amour , l'amour Qui fait la monde a la ronde : '' and yet no one may be able to see them except those whose heart be go round to that same tune .
At all event , we will make believe that there be fairy in the world .
It will not be the last time by many a one that we shall have to make believe .
And yet , after all , there be no need for that .
There must be fairy ; for this be a fairy tale : and how can one have a fairy tale if there be no fairy ?
You do n't see the logic of that ?
Perhaps not .
Then please not to see the logic of a great many argument exactly like it , which you will hear before your beard be gray .
The kind old dame come back at twelve , when school be over , to look at Tom : but there be no Tom there .
She look about for his footprint ; but the ground be so hard that there be no slot , a they say in dear old North Devon .
And if you grow up to be a brave healthy man , you may know some day what no slot mean , and know too , I hope , what a slot do mean -- a broad slot , with blunt claw , which make a man put out his cigar , and set his teeth , and tighten his girth , when he see it ; and what his right mean , if he have them , brow , bay , tray , and point ; and see something worth see between Haddon Wood and Countisbury Cliff , with good Mr. Palk Collyns to show you the way , and mend your bone as fast a you smash them .
Only when that jolly day come , please do n't break your neck ; stogged in a mire you never will be , I trust ; for you be a heath-cropper bred and born .
So the old dame go in again quite sulky , think that little Tom have trick her with a false story , and sham ill , and then run away again .
But she alter her mind the next day .
For , when Sir John and the rest of them have run themselves out of breath , and lose Tom , they go back again , look very foolish .
And they look more foolish still when Sir John hear more of the story from the nurse ; and more foolish still , again , when they hear the whole story from Miss Ellie , the little lady in white .
All she have see be a poor little black chimney-sweep , cry and sobbing , and go to get up the chimney again .
Of course , she be very much frighten : and no wonder .
But that be all .
The boy have take nothing in the room ; by the mark of his little sooty foot , they could see that he have never be off the hearthrug till the nurse catch hold of him .
It be all a mistake .
So Sir John tell Grimes to go home , and promise him five shilling if he would bring the boy quietly up to him , without beat him , that he might be sure of the truth .
For he take for grant , and Grimes too , that Tom have make his way home .
But no Tom come back to Mr. Grimes that even ; and he go to the police-office , to tell them to look out for the boy .
But no Tom be hear of .
As for his have go over those great fell to Vendale , they no more dreamed of that than of his have go to the moon .
So Mr. Grimes come up to Harthover next day with a very sour face ; but when he get there , Sir John be over the hill and far away ; and Mr. Grimes have to sit in the outer servant ' hall all day , and drink strong ale to wash away his sorrow ; and they be wash away long before Sir John come back .
For good Sir John have sleep very badly that night ; and he say to his lady , `` My dear , the boy must have get over into the grouse - moor , and lose himself ; and he lie very heavily on my conscience , poor little lad .
But I know what I will do . ''
So , at five the next morning up he get , and into his bath , and into his shooting-jacket and gaiter , and into the stableyard , like a fine old English gentleman , with a face as red a a rise , and a hand as hard a a table , and a back as broad a a bullock 's ; and bid them bring his shooting pony , and the keeper to come on his pony , and the huntsman , and the first whip , and the second whip , and the under-keeper with the bloodhound in a leash -- a great dog as tall a a calf , of the colour of a gravel-walk , with mahogany ear and nose , and a throat like a church-bell .
They take him up to the place where Tom have go into the wood ; and there the hound lift up his mighty voice , and tell them all he know .
Then he take them to the place where Tom have climb the wall ; and they shove it down , and all get through .
And then the wise dog take them over the moor , and over the fell , step by step , very slowly ; for the scent be a day old , you know , and very light from the heat and drought .
But that be why cunning old Sir John start at five in the morning .
And at last he come to the top of Lewthwaite Crag , and there he bay , and look up in their face , as much a to say , `` I tell you he be go down here ! ''
They could hardly believe that Tom would have go so far ; and when they look at that awful cliff , they could never believe that he would have dare to face it .
But if the dog say so , it must be true .
`` Heaven forgive u ! ''
say Sir John .
`` If we find him at all , we shall find him lie at the bottom . ''
And he slap his great hand upon his great thigh , and say - `` Who will go down over Lewthwaite Crag , and see if that boy be alive ?
Oh that I be twenty year young , and I would go down myself ! ''
And so he would have do , as well a any sweep in the county .
Then he say - `` Twenty pound to the man who bring me that boy alive ! ''
and a be his way , what he say he mean .
Now among the lot be a little groom-boy , a very little groom indeed ; and he be the same who have ride up the court , and tell Tom to come to the Hall ; and he say - `` Twenty pound or none , I will go down over Lewthwaite Crag , if it 's only for the poor boy 's sake .
For he be a civil a spoken little chap a ever climb a flue . ''
So down over Lewthwaite Crag he go : a very smart groom he be at the top , and a very shabby one at the bottom ; for he tear his gaiter , and he tear his breech , and he tear his jacket , and he burst his brace , and he burst his boot , and he lose his hat , and what be bad of all , he lose his shirt pin , which he prize very much , for it be gold , and he have win it in a raffle at Malton , and there be a figure at the top of it , of t ` ould mare , noble old Beeswing herself , as natural a life ; so it be a really severe loss : but he never saw anything of Tom .
And all the while Sir John and the rest be rid round , full three mile to the right , and back again , to get into Vendale , and to the foot of the crag .
When they come to the old dame 's school , all the child come out to see .
And the old dame come out too ; and when she saw Sir John , she curtsy very low , for she be a tenant of his .
`` Well , dame , and how be you ? ''
say Sir John .
`` Blessings on you as broad a your back , Harthover , '' say she -- she do n't call him Sir John , but only Harthover , for that be the fashion in the North country -- `` and welcome into Vendale : but you 're no hunt the fox this time of the year ? ''
`` I be hunt , and strange game too , '' say he .
`` Blessings on your heart , and what make you look so sad the morn ? ''
`` I 'm look for a lost child , a chimney-sweep , that be run away . ''
`` Oh , Harthover , Harthover , '' say she , `` ye be always a just man and a merciful ; and ye 'll no harm the poor little lad if I give you tidings of him ? ''
`` Not I , not I , dame .
I 'm afraid we hunt him out of the house all on a miserable mistake , and the hound have bring him to the top of Lewthwaite Crag , and -- '' Whereat the old dame break out cry , without let him finish his story .
`` So he tell me the truth after all , poor little dear !
Ah , first thought be best , and a body 's heart 'll guide them right , if they will but hearken to it . ''
And then she tell Sir John all .
`` Bring the dog here , and lay him on , '' say Sir John , without another word , and he set his teeth very hard .
And the dog open at once ; and go away at the back of the cottage , over the road , and over the meadow , and through a bit of alder copse ; and there , upon an alder stump , they saw Tom 's clothes lie .
And then they know as much about it all a there be any need to know .
And Tom ?
Ah , now come the most wonderful part of this wonderful story .
Tom , when he wake , for of course he wake -- child always wake after they have sleep exactly as long a be good for them -- find himself swim about in the stream , be about four inch , or -- that I may be accurate -- 3.87902 inch long and have round the parotid region of his fauces a set of external gill -LRB- I hope you understand all the big word -RRB- just like those of a sucking eft , which he mistake for a lace frill , till he pull at them , find he hurt himself , and make up his mind that they be part of himself , and best leave alone .
In fact , the fairy have turn him into a water-baby .
A water-baby ?
You never hear of a water-baby .
Perhaps not .
That be the very reason why this story be write .
There be a great many thing in the world which you never heard of ; and a great many more which nobody ever heard of ; and a great many thing , too , which nobody will ever hear of , at least until the come of the Cocqcigrues , when man shall be the measure of all thing .
`` But there be no such thing a water-babies . ''
How do you know that ?
Have you be there to see ?
And if you have be there to see , and have see none , that would not prove that there be none .
If Mr. Garth do not find a fox in Eversley Wood -- a folk sometimes fear he never will -- that do not prove that there be no such thing a fox .
And a be Eversley Wood to all the wood in England , so be the water we know to all the water in the world .
And no one have a right to say that no water - baby exist , till they have see no water-babies existing ; which be quite a different thing , mind , from not see water-babies ; and a thing which nobody ever do , or perhaps ever will do .
`` But surely if there be water-babies , somebody would have catch one at least ? ''
Well .
How do you know that somebody have not ?
`` But they would have put it into spirit , or into the Illustrated News , or perhaps cut it into two half , poor dear little thing , and send one to Professor Owen , and one to Professor Huxley , to see what they would each say about it . ''
Ah , my dear little man !
that do not follow at all , a you will see before the end of the story .
`` But a water-baby be contrary to nature . ''
Well , but , my dear little man , you must learn to talk about such thing , when you grow old , in a very different way from that .
You must not talk about `` ai n't '' and `` ca n't '' when you speak of this great wonderful world round you , of which the wise man know only the very small corner , and be , a the great Sir Isaac Newton say , only a child pick up pebble on the shore of a boundless ocean .
You must not say that this can not be , or that that be contrary to nature .
You do not know what Nature be , or what she can do ; and nobody know ; not even Sir Roderick Murchison , or Professor Owen , or Professor Sedgwick , or Professor Huxley , or Mr. Darwin , or Professor Faraday , or Mr. Grove , or any other of the great men whom good boy be teach to respect .
They be very wise men ; and you must listen respectfully to all they say : but even if they should say , which I be sure they never would , `` That can not exist .
That be contrary to nature , '' you must wait a little , and see ; for perhaps even they may be wrong .
It be only child who read Aunt Agitate 's Arguments , or Cousin Cramchild 's Conversations ; or lad who go to popular lecture , and see a man point at a few big ugly picture on the wall , or make nasty smell with bottle and squirt , for an hour or two , and call that anatomy or chemistry - - who talk about `` can not exist , '' and `` contrary to nature . ''
Wise men be afraid to say that there be anything contrary to nature , except what be contrary to mathematical truth ; for two and two can not make five , and two straight line can not join twice , and a part can not be as great a the whole , and so on -LRB- at least , so it seem at present -RRB- : but the wise men be , the less they talk about `` can not . ''
That be a very rash , dangerous word , that `` can not '' ; and if people use it too often , the Queen of all the Fairies , who make the clouds thunder and the fleas bite , and take just as much trouble about one a about the other , be apt to astonish them suddenly by show them , that though they say she can not , yet she can , and what be more , will , whether they approve or not .
And therefore it be , that there be dozen and hundred of thing in the world which we should certainly have say be contrary to nature , if we do not see them go on under our eye all day long .
If people have never see little seed grow into great plant and tree , of quite different shape from themselves , and these tree again produce fresh seed , to grow into fresh tree , they would have say , `` The thing can not be ; it be contrary to nature . ''
And they would have be quite as right in say so , a in say that most other thing can not be .
Or suppose again , that you have come , like M. Du Chaillu , a traveller from unknown part ; and that no human be have ever see or hear of an elephant .
And suppose that you describe him to people , and say , `` This be the shape , and plan , and anatomy of the beast , and of his foot , and of his trunk , and of his grinder , and of his tusk , though they be not tusk at all , but two fore teeth run mad ; and this be the section of his skull , more like a mushroom than a reasonable skull of a reasonable or unreasonable beast ; and so forth , and so forth ; and though the beast -LRB- which I assure you I have see and shot -RRB- be first cousin to the little hairy coney of Scripture , second cousin to a pig , and -LRB- I suspect -RRB- thirteenth or fourteenth cousin to a rabbit , yet he be the wise of all beast , and can do everything save read , write , and cast account . ''
People would surely have say , `` Nonsense ; your elephant be contrary to nature ; '' and have think you be tell story -- a the French thought of Le Vaillant when he come back to Paris and say that he have shoot a giraffe ; and a the king of the Cannibal Islands thought of the English sailor , when he say that in his country water turn to marble , and rain fell a feather .
They would tell you , the more they know of science , `` Your elephant be an impossible monster , contrary to the law of comparative anatomy , as far a yet know . ''
To which you would answer the less , the more you think .
Did not learn men , too , hold , till within the last twenty-five year , that a fly dragon be an impossible monster ?
And do we not now know that there be hundred of them find fossil up and down the world ?
People call them Pterodactyles : but that be only because they be ashamed to call them fly dragon , after deny so long that fly dragon could exist .
The truth be , that folk ' fancy that such and such thing can not be , simply because they have not see them , be worth no more than a savage 's fancy that there can not be such a thing a a locomotive , because he never saw one run wild in the forest .
Wise men know that their business be to examine what be , and not to settle what be not .
They know that there be elephant ; they know that there have be fly dragon ; and the wiser they be , the le incline they will be to say positively that there be no water-babies .
No water-babies , indeed ?
Why , wise men of old say that everything on earth have it double in the water ; and you may see that that be , if not quite true , still quite as true a most other theory which you be likely to hear for many a day .
There be land-babies -- then why not water-babies ?
Are there not water-rats , water-flies , water-crickets , water-crabs , water-tortoises , water-scorpions , water-tigers and water-hogs , water-cats and water-dogs , sea-lions and sea-bears , sea-horses and sea-elephants , sea-mice and sea - urchin , sea-razors and sea-pens , sea-combs and sea-fans ; and of plant , be there not water-grass , and water-crowfoot , water - milfoil , and so on , without end ?
`` But all these thing be only nicknames ; the water thing be not really akin to the land thing . ''
That 's not always true .
They be , in million of case , not only of the same family , but actually the same individual creature .
Do not even you know that a green drake , and an alder-fly , and a dragon-fly , live under water till they change their skin , just a Tom change his ?
And if a water animal can continually change into a land animal , why should not a land animal sometimes change into a water animal ?
Do n't be put down by any of Cousin Cramchild 's argument , but stand up to him like a man , and answer him -LRB- quite respectfully , of course -RRB- thus : - If Cousin Cramchild say , that if there be water-babies , they must grow into water-men , ask him how he know that they do not ?
and then , how he know that they must , any more than the Proteus of the Adelsberg cavern grow into a perfect newt .
If he say that it be too strange a transformation for a land-baby to turn into a water-baby , ask him if he ever hear of the transformation of Syllis , or the Distomas , or the common jelly - fish , of which M. Quatrefages say excellently well -- `` Who would not exclaim that a miracle have come to pass , if he saw a reptile come out of the egg drop by the hen in his poultry-yard , and the reptile give birth at once to an indefinite number of fish and bird ?
Yet the history of the jelly-fish be quite as wonderful a that would be . ''
Ask him if he know about all this ; and if he do not , tell him to go and look for himself ; and advise him -LRB- very respectfully , of course -RRB- to settle no more what strange thing can not happen , till he have see what strange thing do happen every day .
If he say that thing can not degrade , that be , change downwards into low form , ask him , who tell him that water-babies be low than land-babies ?
But even if they be , do he know about the strange degradation of the common goose-barnacles , which one find stick on ship ' bottom ; or the still strange degradation of some cousin of theirs , of which one hardly like to talk , so shocking and ugly it be ?
And , lastly , if he say -LRB- a he most certainly will -RRB- that these transformation only take place in the low animal , and not in the high , say that that seem to little boys , and to some grown people , a very strange fancy .
For if the change of the low animal be so wonderful , and so difficult to discover , why should not there be change in the high animal far more wonderful , and far more difficult to discover ?
And may not man , the crown and flower of all thing , undergo some change a much more wonderful than all the rest , a the Great Exhibition be more wonderful than a rabbit-burrow ?
Let him answer that .
And if he say -LRB- a he will -RRB- that not have see such a change in his experience , he be not bind to believe it , ask him respectfully , where his microscope have be ?
Does not each of u , in come into this world , go through a transformation just as wonderful a that of a sea-egg , or a butterfly ?
and do not reason and analogy , as well a Scripture , tell u that that transformation be not the last ?
and that , though what we shall be , we know not , yet we be here but a the crawling caterpillar , and shall be hereafter a the perfect fly .
The old Greeks , heathens a they be , saw as much a that two thousand year ago ; and I care very little for Cousin Cramchild , if he see even less than they .
And so forth , and so forth , till he be quite cross .
And then tell him that if there be no water-babies , at least there ought to be ; and that , at least , he can not answer .
And meanwhile , my dear little man , till you know a great deal more about nature than Professor Owen and Professor Huxley put together , do n't tell me about what can not be , or fancy that anything be too wonderful to be true .
`` We be fearfully and wonderfully make , '' say old David ; and so we be ; and so be everything around u , down to the very deal table .
Yes ; much more fearfully and wonderfully make , already , be the table , a it stand now , nothing but a piece of dead deal wood , than if , a fox say , and geese believe , spirit could make it dance , or talk to you by rap on it .
Am I in earnest ?
Oh dear no !
Do n't you know that this be a fairy tale , and all fun and pretence ; and that you be not to believe one word of it , even if it be true ?
But at all event , so it happen to Tom .
And , therefore , the keeper , and the groom , and Sir John make a great mistake , and be very unhappy -LRB- Sir John at least -RRB- without any reason , when they find a black thing in the water , and say it be Tom 's body , and that he have be drown .
They be utterly mistake .
Tom be quite alive ; and clean , and merry , than he ever have be .
The fairy have wash him , you see , in the swift river , so thoroughly , that not only his dirt , but his whole husk and shell have be wash quite off him , and the pretty little real Tom be wash out of the inside of it , and swim away , a a caddis do when it case of stone and silk be bore through , and away it go on it back , paddle to the shore , there to split it skin , and fly away a a caperer , on four fawn-coloured wing , with long leg and horn .
They be foolish fellow , the caperers , and fly into the candle at night , if you leave the door open .
We will hope Tom will be wise , now he have get safe out of his sooty old shell .
But good Sir John do not understand all this , not be a fellow of the Linnaean Society ; and he take it into his head that Tom be drown .
When they look into the empty pocket of his shell , and find no jewel there , nor money -- nothing but three marble , and a brass button with a string to it -- then Sir John do something a like cry a ever he do in his life , and blame himself more bitterly than he need have do .
So he cry , and the groom-boy cried , and the huntsman cry , and the dame cry , and the little girl cry , and the dairymaid cry , and the old nurse cry -LRB- for it be somewhat her fault -RRB- , and my lady cry , for though people have wig , that be no reason why they should not have heart ; but the keeper do not cry , though he have be so good-natured to Tom the morning before ; for he be so dry up with run after poacher , that you could no more get tear out of him than milk out of leather : and Grimes do not cry , for Sir John give him ten pound , and he drink it all in a week .
Sir John send , far and wide , to find Tom 's father and mother : but he might have look till Doomsday for them , for one be dead , and the other be in Botany Bay .
And the little girl would not play with her doll for a whole week , and never forget poor little Tom .
And soon my lady put a pretty little tombstone over Tom 's shell in the little churchyard in Vendale , where the old dalesman all sleep side by side between the lime-stone crag .
And the dame deck it with garland every Sunday , till she grow so old that she could not stir abroad ; then the little child deck it , for her .
And always she sing an old old song , a she sit spin what she call her wedding-dress .
The child could not understand it , but they like it none the le for that ; for it be very sweet , and very sad ; and that be enough for them .
And these be the word of it : - When all the world be young , lad , And all the tree be green ; And every goose a swan , lad , And every lass a queen ; Then hey for boot and horse , lad , And round the world away ; Young blood must have it course , lad , And every dog his day .
When all the world be old , lad , And all the tree be brown ; And all the sport be stale , lad , And all the wheel run down ; Creep home , and take your place there , The spent and maim among : God grant you find one face there , You love when all be young .
Those be the word : but they be only the body of it : the soul of the song be the dear old woman 's sweet face , and sweet voice , and the sweet old air to which she sing ; and that , ala !
one can not put on paper .
And at last she grow so stiff and lame , that the angel be force to carry her ; and they help her on with her wedding-dress , and carry her up over Harthover Fells , and a long way beyond that too ; and there be a new schoolmistress in Vendale , and we will hope that she be not certificate .
And all the while Tom be swim about in the river , with a pretty little lace-collar of gill about his neck , as lively a a grig , and as clean a a fresh-run salmon .
Now if you do n't like my story , then go to the schoolroom and learn your multiplication-table , and see if you like that good .
Some people , no doubt , would do so .
So much the good for u , if not for them .
It take all sort , they say , to make a world .
CHAPTER III `` He prayeth well who loveth well Both men and bird and beast ; He prayeth best who loveth best All thing both great and small : For the dear God who loveth u , He make and loveth all . ''
COLERIDGE .
Tom be now quite amphibious .
You do not know what that mean ?
You have good , then , ask the near Government pupil-teacher , who may possibly answer you smartly enough , thus - `` Amphibious .
Adjective , derive from two Greek word , amphi , a fish , and bios , a beast .
An animal suppose by our ignorant ancestor to be compound of a fish and a beast ; which therefore , like the hippopotamus , ca n't live on the land , and dy in the water . ''
However that may be , Tom be amphibious : and what be good still , he be clean .
For the first time in his life , he felt how comfortable it be to have nothing on him but himself .
But he only enjoy it : he do not know it , or think about it ; just a you enjoy life and health , and yet never think about be alive and healthy ; and may it be long before you have to think about it !
He do not remember have ever be dirty .
Indeed , he do not remember any of his old trouble , be tire , or hungry , or beat , or send up dark chimney .
Since that sweet sleep , he have forget all about his master , and Harthover Place , and the little white girl , and in a word , all that have happen to him when he live before ; and what be best of all , he have forget all the bad word which he have learn from Grimes , and the rude boys with whom he use to play .
That be not strange : for you know , when you come into this world , and become a land-baby , you remember nothing .
So why should he , when he become a water-baby ?
Then have you live before ?
My dear child , who can tell ?
One can only tell that , by remember something which happen where we live before ; and a we remember nothing , we know nothing about it ; and no book , and no man , can ever tell u certainly .
There be a wise man once , a very wise man , and a very good man , who write a poem about the feeling which some child have about have live before ; and this be what he say - `` Our birth be but a sleep and a forgetting ; The soul that rise with u , our life 's star , Hath elsewhere have it setting , And cometh from afar : Not in entire forgetfulness , And not in utter nakedness , But trail cloud of glory , do we come From God , who be our home . ''
There , you can know no more than that .
But if I be you , I would believe that .
For then the great fairy Science , who be likely to be queen of all the fairy for many a year to come , can only do you good , and never do you harm ; and instead of fancy with some people , that your body make your soul , a if a steam-engine could make it own coke ; or , with some people , that your soul have nothing to do with your body , but be only stuck into it like a pin into a pincushion , to fall out with the first shake ; -- you will believe the one true , orthodox , inductive , rational , deductive , philosophical , seductive , logical , productive , irrefragable , salutary , nominalistic , comfortable , realistic , and on-all-accounts-to-be-received doctrine of this wonderful fairy tale ; which be , that your soul make your body , just a a snail make his shell .
For the rest , it be enough for u to be sure that whether or not we live before , we shall live again ; though not , I hope , a poor little heathen Tom do .
For he go downward into the water : but we , I hope , shall go upward to a very different place .
But Tom be very happy in the water .
He have be sadly overwork in the land-world ; and so now , to make up for that , he have nothing but holiday in the water-world for a long , long time to come .
He have nothing to do now but enjoy himself , and look at all the pretty thing which be to be see in the cool clear water-world , where the sun be never too hot , and the frost be never too cold .
And what do he live on ?
Water-cresses , perhaps ; or perhaps water - gruel , and water-milk ; too many land-babies do so likewise .
But we do not know what one-tenth of the water-things eat ; so we be not answerable for the water-babies .
Sometimes he go along the smooth gravel water-ways , look at the cricket which run in and out among the stone , a rabbit do on land ; or he climb over the ledge of rock , and saw the sand - pipe hang in thousand , with every one of them a pretty little head and legs peep out ; or he go into a still corner , and watch the caddises eat dead stick as greedily a you would eat plum-pudding , and build their house with silk and glue .
Very fanciful lady they be ; none of them would keep to the same material for a day .
One would begin with some pebble ; then she would stick on a piece of green wood ; then she find a shell , and stick it on too ; and the poor shell be alive , and do not like at all be take to build house with : but the caddis do not let him have any voice in the matter , be rude and selfish , a vain people be apt to be ; then she stick on a piece of rotten wood , then a very smart pink stone , and so on , till she be patch all over like an Irishman 's coat .
Then she find a long straw , five time as long a herself , and say , `` Hurrah !
my sister have a tail , and I 'll have one too ; '' and she stick it on her back , and march about with it quite proud , though it be very inconvenient indeed .
And , at that , tail become all the fashion among the caddis-baits in that pool , a they be at the end of the Long Pond last May , and they all toddle about with long straw stick out behind , get between each other 's leg , and tumble over each other , and look so ridiculous , that Tom laugh at them till he cry , a we do .
But they be quite right , you know ; for people must always follow the fashion , even if it be spoon-bonnets .
Then sometimes he come to a deep still reach ; and there he saw the water-forests .
They would have look to you only little weed : but Tom , you must remember , be so little that everything look a hundred time as big to him a it do to you , just a thing do to a minnow , who see and catch the little water-creatures which you can only see in a microscope .
And in the water-forest he saw the water-monkeys and water - squirrel -LRB- they have all six leg , though ; everything almost have six leg in the water , except eft and water-babies -RRB- ; and nimbly enough they run among the branch .
There be water-flowers there too , in thousand ; and Tom try to pick them : but as soon a he touch them , they draw themselves in and turn into knot of jelly ; and then Tom saw that they be all alive -- bell , and star , and wheel , and flower , of all beautiful shape and colour ; and all alive and busy , just a Tom be .
So now he find that there be a great deal more in the world than he have fancy at first sight .
There be one wonderful little fellow , too , who peep out of the top of a house built of round brick .
He have two big wheel , and one little one , all over teeth , spin round and round like the wheel in a thrashing-machine ; and Tom stand and star at him , to see what he be go to make with his machinery .
And what do you think he be do ?
Brick-making .
With his two big wheel he sweep together all the mud which float in the water : all that be nice in it he put into his stomach and ate ; and all the mud he put into the little wheel on his breast , which really be a round hole set with teeth ; and there he spin it into a neat hard round brick ; and then he take it and stick it on the top of his house - wall , and set to work to make another .
Now be not he a clever little fellow ?
Tom think so : but when he want to talk to him the brick-maker be much too busy and proud of his work to take notice of him .
Now you must know that all the thing under the water talk ; only not such a language a ours ; but such a horse , and dog , and cow , and bird talk to each other ; and Tom soon learn to understand them and talk to them ; so that he might have have very pleasant company if he have only be a good boy .
But I be sorry to say , he be too like some other little boy , very fond of hunting and tormenting creature for mere sport .
Some people say that boy can not help it ; that it be nature , and only a proof that we be all originally descend from beast of prey .
But whether it be nature or not , little boy can help it , and must help it .
For if they have naughty , low , mischievous trick in their nature , a monkey have , that be no reason why they should give way to those trick like monkey , who know no good .
And therefore they must not torment dumb creature ; for if they do , a certain old lady who be come will surely give them exactly what they deserve .
But Tom do not know that ; and he peck and howked the poor water - thing about sadly , till they be all afraid of him , and get out of his way , or creep into their shell ; so he have no one to speak to or play with .
The water-fairies , of course , be very sorry to see him so unhappy , and long to take him , and tell him how naughty he be , and teach him to be good , and to play and romp with him too : but they have be forbid to do that .
Tom have to learn his lesson for himself by sound and sharp experience , a many another foolish person have to do , though there may be many a kind heart yearning over them all the while , and long to teach them what they can only teach themselves .
At last one day he find a caddis , and want it to peep out of it house : but it house-door be shut .
He have never see a caddis with a house-door before : so what must he do , the meddlesome little fellow , but pull it open , to see what the poor lady be do inside .
What a shame !
How should you like to have any one break your bedroom-door in , to see how you look when you where in bed ?
So Tom break to piece the door , which be the pretty little grating of silk , stick all over with shin bit of crystal ; and when he look in , the caddis poke out her head , and it have turn into just the shape of a bird 's .
But when Tom speak to her she could not answer ; for her mouth and face be tight tie up in a new night-cap of neat pink skin .
However , if she do n't answer , all the other caddises do ; for they hold up their hand and shriek like the cat in Struwelpeter : `` Oh , you nasty horrid boy ; there you be at it again !
And she have just lay herself up for a fortnight 's sleep , and then she would have come out with such beautiful wing , and flown about , and lay such lot of egg : and now you have break her door , and she ca n't mend it because her mouth be tie up for a fortnight , and she will die .
Who send you here to worry u out of our life ? ''
So Tom swim away .
He be very much ashamed of himself , and felt all the naughtier ; a little boy do when they have do wrong and wo n't say so .
Then he come to a pool full of little trout , and begin torment them , and try to catch them : but they slip through his finger , and jump clean out of water in their fright .
But a Tom chase them , he come close to a great dark hover under an alder root , and out floushed a huge old brown trout ten time as big a he be , and run right against him , and knock all the breath out of his body ; and I do n't know which be the more frightened of the two .
Then he go on sulky and lonely , a he deserve to be ; and under a bank he saw a very ugly dirty creature sit , about half as big a himself ; which have six leg , and a big stomach , and a most ridiculous head with two great eye and a face just like a donkey 's .
`` Oh , '' say Tom , `` you be an ugly fellow to be sure ! ''
and he begin make face at him ; and put his nose close to him , and halloed at him , like a very rude boy .
When , hey presto ; all the thing 's donkey-face come off in a moment , and out pop a long arm with a pair of pincer at the end of it , and catch Tom by the nose .
It do not hurt him much ; but it hold him quite tight .
`` Yah , ah !
Oh , let me go ! ''
cry Tom .
`` Then let me go , '' say the creature .
`` I want to be quiet .
I want to split . ''
Tom promise to let him alone , and he let go .
`` Why do you want to split ? ''
say Tom .
`` Because my brother and sister have all split , and turn into beautiful creature with wing ; and I want to split too .
Do n't speak to me .
I be sure I shall split .
I will split ! ''
Tom stand still , and watch him .
And he swell himself , and puffed , and stretch himself out stiff , and at last -- crack , puff , bang -- he open all down his back , and then up to the top of his head .
And out of his inside come the most slender , elegant , soft creature , a soft and smooth a Tom : but very pale and weak , like a little child who have be ill a long time in a dark room .
It move it legs very feebly ; and look about it half ashamed , like a girl when she go for the first time into a ballroom ; and then it begin walk slowly up a grass stem to the top of the water .
Tom be so astonished that he never say a word but he star with all his eye .
And he go up to the top of the water too , and peep out to see what would happen .
And a the creature sit in the warm bright sun , a wonderful change come over it .
It grow strong and firm ; the most lovely colour begin to show on it body , blue and yellow and black , spot and bar and ring ; out of it back rise four great wing of bright brown gauze ; and it eye grow so large that they fill all it head , and shone like ten thousand diamond .
`` Oh , you beautiful creature ! ''
say Tom ; and he put out his hand to catch it .
But the thing whir up into the air , and hung poise on it wing a moment , and then settle down again by Tom quite fearless .
`` No ! ''
it say , `` you can not catch me .
I be a dragon-fly now , the king of all the fly ; and I shall dance in the sunshine , and hawk over the river , and catch gnat , and have a beautiful wife like myself .
I know what I shall do .
Hurrah ! ''
And he fly away into the air , and begin catch gnat .
`` Oh !
come back , come back , '' cry Tom , `` you beautiful creature .
I have no one to play with , and I be so lonely here .
If you will but come back I will never try to catch you . ''
`` I do n't care whether you do or not , '' say the dragon-fly ; `` for you ca n't .
But when I have have my dinner , and look a little about this pretty place , I will come back , and have a little chat about all I have see in my travel .
Why , what a huge tree this be !
and what huge leave on it ! ''
It be only a big dock : but you know the dragon-fly have never see any but little water-trees ; starwort , and milfoil , and water - crowfoot , and such like ; so it do look very big to him .
Besides , he be very short-sighted , a all dragon-flies be ; and never could see a yard before his nose ; any more than a great many other folk , who be not half as handsome a he .
The dragon-fly do come back , and chat away with Tom .
He be a little conceited about his fine colour and his large wing ; but you know , he have be a poor dirty ugly creature all his life before ; so there be great excuse for him .
He be very fond of talk about all the wonderful thing he saw in the tree and the meadow ; and Tom like to listen to him , for he have forget all about them .
So in a little while they become great friend .
And I be very glad to say , that Tom learn such a lesson that day , that he do not torment creature for a long time after .
And then the caddises grow quite tame , and use to tell him strange story about the way they build their house , and change their skin , and turn at last into winged fly ; till Tom begin to long to change his skin , and have wing like them some day .
And the trout and he make it up -LRB- for trout very soon forget if they have be frighten and hurt -RRB- .
So Tom use to play with them at hare and hound , and great fun they have ; and he use to try to leap out of the water , head over heel , a they do before a shower come on ; but somehow he never could manage it .
He like most , though , to see them rise at the fly , a they sail round and round under the shadow of the great oak , where the beetle fell flop into the water , and the green caterpillar let themselves down from the bough by silk rope for no reason at all ; and then change their foolish mind for no reason at all either ; and haul themselves up again into the tree , roll up the rope in a ball between their paw ; which be a very clever rope-dancer 's trick , and neither Blondin nor Leotard could do it : but why they should take so much trouble about it no one can tell ; for they can not get their living , a Blondin and Leotard do , by try to break their neck on a string .
And very often Tom catch them just a they touch the water ; and catch the alder-flies , and the caperers , and the cock-tailed dun and spinner , yellow , and brown , and claret , and gray , and give them to his friend the trout .
Perhaps he be not quite kind to the fly ; but one must do a good turn to one 's friend when one can .
And at last he give up catch even the fly ; for he make acquaintance with one by accident and find him a very merry little fellow .
And this be the way it happen ; and it be all quite true .
He be bask at the top of the water one hot day in July , catch dun and feed the trout , when he saw a new sort , a dark gray little fellow with a brown head .
He be a very little fellow indeed : but he make the most of himself , a people ought to do .
He cock up his head , and he cock up his wing , and he cock up his tail , and he cock up the two whisk at his tail-end , and , in short , he look the cocky little man of all little men .
And so he prove to be ; for instead of get away , he hop upon Tom 's finger , and sat there as bold a nine tailor ; and he cry out in the tiniest , shrill , squeakiest little voice you ever hear , `` Much oblige to you , indeed ; but I do n't want it yet . ''
`` Want what ? ''
say Tom , quite take aback by his impudence .
`` Your leg , which you be kind enough to hold out for me to sit on .
I must just go and see after my wife for a few minute .
Dear me !
what a troublesome business a family be ! ''
-LRB- though the idle little rogue do nothing at all , but leave his poor wife to lay all the egg by herself -RRB- .
`` When I come back , I shall be glad of it , if you 'll be so good a to keep it stick out just so ; '' and off he fly .
Tom think him a very cool sort of personage ; and still more so , when , in five minute he come back , and say -- `` Ah , you be tire wait ?
Well , your other leg will do as well . ''
And he pop himself down on Tom 's knee , and begin chat away in his squeaking voice .
`` So you live under the water ?
It 's a low place .
I live there for some time ; and be very shabby and dirty .
But I do n't choose that that should last .
So I turn respectable , and come up to the top , and put on this gray suit .
It 's a very business-like suit , you think , do n't you ? ''
`` Very neat and quiet indeed , '' say Tom .
`` Yes , one must be quiet and neat and respectable , and all that sort of thing for a little , when one become a family man .
But I 'm tired of it , that 's the truth .
I 've do quite enough business , I consider , in the last week , to last me my life .
So I shall put on a ball dress , and go out and be a smart man , and see the gay world , and have a dance or two .
Why should n't one be jolly if one can ? ''
`` And what will become of your wife ? ''
`` Oh !
she be a very plain stupid creature , and that 's the truth ; and think about nothing but egg .
If she choose to come , why she may ; and if not , why I go without her ; -- and here I go . ''
And , a he speak , he turn quite pale , and then quite white .
`` Why , you 're ill ! ''
say Tom .
But he do not answer .
`` You 're dead , '' say Tom , look at him a he stand on his knee as white a a ghost .
`` No , I ai n't ! ''
answer a little squeaking voice over his head .
`` This be me up here , in my ball-dress ; and that 's my skin .
Ha , ha !
you could not do such a trick a that ! ''
And no more Tom could , nor Houdin , nor Robin , nor Frikell , nor all the conjuror in the world .
For the little rogue have jump clean out of his own skin , and leave it stand on Tom 's knee , eye , wing , leg , tail , exactly a if it have be alive .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
he say , and he jerk and skip up and down , never stop an instant , just a if he have St. Vitus 's dance .
`` Ai n't I a pretty fellow now ? ''
And so he be ; for his body be white , and his tail orange , and his eye all the colour of a peacock 's tail .
And what be the odd of all , the whisk at the end of his tail have grow five time as long a they be before .
`` Ah ! ''
say he , `` now I will see the gay world .
My living , wo n't cost me much , for I have no mouth , you see , and no inside ; so I can never be hungry nor have the stomach-ache neither . ''
No more he have .
He have grow a dry and hard and empty a a quill , a such silly shallow-hearted fellow deserve to grow .
But , instead of be ashamed of his emptiness , he be quite proud of it , a a good many fine gentleman be , and begin flirt and flip up and down , and sing - `` My wife shall dance , and I shall sing , So merrily pass the day ; For I hold it for quite the wise thing , To drive dull care away . ''
And he dance up and down for three day and three night , till he grow so tired , that he tumble into the water , and float down .
But what become of him Tom never know , and he himself never mind ; for Tom hear him sing to the last , a he float down - `` To drive dull care away-ay-ay ! ''
And if he do not care , why nobody else care either .
But one day Tom have a new adventure .
He be sit on a water - lily leaf , he and his friend the dragon-fly , watch the gnat dance .
The dragon-fly have eat as many a he want , and be sit quite still and sleepy , for it be very hot and bright .
The gnat -LRB- who do not care the least for their poor brother ' death -RRB- dance a foot over his head quite happily , and a large black fly settle within an inch of his nose , and begin wash his own face and comb his hair with his paw : but the dragon-fly never stir , and keep on chat to Tom about the time when he live under the water .
Suddenly , Tom hear the strange noise up the stream ; cooing , and grunting , and whining , and squeak , a if you have put into a bag two stock-doves , nine mouse , three guinea-pigs , and a blind puppy , and leave them there to settle themselves and make music .
He look up the water , and there he saw a sight as strange a the noise ; a great ball rolling over and over down the stream , seem one moment of soft brown fur , and the next of shin glass : and yet it be not a ball ; for sometimes it break up and stream away in piece , and then it join again ; and all the while the noise come out of it louder and louder .
Tom ask the dragon-fly what it could be : but , of course , with his short sight , he could not even see it , though it be not ten yard away .
So he take the neat little header into the water , and start off to see for himself ; and , when he come near , the ball turn out to be four or five beautiful creature , many time large than Tom , who be swim about , and rolling , and diving , and twisting , and wrestling , and cuddling , and kiss and biting , and scratch , in the most charming fashion that ever be see .
And if you do n't believe me , you may go to the Zoological Gardens -LRB- for I be afraid that you wo n't see it near , unless , perhaps , you get up at five in the morning , and go down to Cordery 's Moor , and watch by the great withy pollard which hang over the backwater , where the otter breed sometimes -RRB- , and then say , if otter at play in the water be not the merry , lithe , gracefullest creature you ever saw .
But , when the big of them saw Tom , she dart out from the rest , and cry in the water-language sharply enough , `` Quick , child , here be something to eat , indeed ! ''
and come at poor Tom , show such a wicked pair of eye , and such a set of sharp teeth in a grinning mouth , that Tom , who have think her very handsome , say to himself , Handsome be that handsome do , and slip in between the water-lily root a fast a he could , and then turn round and make face at her .
`` Come out , '' say the wicked old otter , `` or it will be bad for you . ''
But Tom look at her from between two thick root , and shake them with all his might , make horrible face all the while , just a he use to grin through the railing at the old woman , when he live before .
It be not quite well breed , no doubt ; but you know , Tom have not finish his education yet .
`` Come , away , child , '' say the otter in disgust , `` it be not worth eating , after all .
It be only a nasty eft , which nothing eats , not even those vulgar pike in the pond . ''
`` I be not an eft ! ''
say Tom ; `` eft have tail . ''
`` You be an eft , '' say the otter , very positively ; `` I see your two hand quite plain , and I know you have a tail . ''
`` I tell you I have not , '' say Tom .
`` Look here ! ''
and he turn his pretty little self quite round ; and , sure enough , he have no more tail than you .
The otter might have get out of it by say that Tom be a frog : but , like a great many other people , when she have once say a thing , she stand to it , right or wrong ; so she answer : `` I say you be an eft , and therefore you be , and not fit food for gentlefolk like me and my child .
You may stay there till the salmon eat you -LRB- she know the salmon would not , but she want to frighten poor Tom -RRB- .
Ha !
ha !
they will eat you , and we will eat them ; '' and the otter laugh such a wicked cruel laugh -- a you may hear them do sometimes ; and the first time that you hear it you will probably think it be bogy .
`` What be salmon ? ''
ask Tom .
`` Fish , you eft , great fish , nice fish to eat .
They be the lord of the fish , and we be lord of the salmon ; '' and she laugh again .
`` We hunt them up and down the pool , and drive them up into a corner , the silly thing ; they be so proud , and bully the little trout , and the minnow , till they see u come , and then they be so meek all at once , and we catch them , but we disdain to eat them all ; we just bite out their soft throat and suck their sweet juice -- Oh , so good ! ''
-- -LRB- and she lick her wicked lips -RRB- -- `` and then throw them away , and go and catch another .
They be come soon , child , come soon ; I can smell the rain come up off the sea , and then hurrah for a fresh , and salmon , and plenty of eat all day long . ''
And the otter grow so proud that she turn head over heels twice , and then stand upright half out of the water , grin like a Cheshire cat .
`` And where do they come from ? ''
ask Tom , who keep himself very close , for he be considerably frighten .
`` Out of the sea , eft , the great wide sea , where they might stay and be safe if they like .
But out of the sea the silly thing come , into the great river down below , and we come up to watch for them ; and when they go down again we go down and follow them .
And there we fish for the bass and the pollock , and have jolly day along the shore , and toss and roll in the breaker , and sleep snug in the warm dry crag .
Ah , that be a merry life too , child , if it be not for those horrid men . ''
`` What be men ? ''
ask Tom ; but somehow he seem to know before he ask .
`` Two-legged thing , eft : and , now I come to look at you , they be actually something like you , if you have not a tail '' -LRB- she be determine that Tom should have a tail -RRB- , `` only a great deal big , bad luck for u ; and they catch the fish with hook and line , which get into our foot sometimes , and set pot along the rock to catch lobster .
They spear my poor dear husband a he go out to find something for me to eat .
I be lay up among the crag then , and we be very low in the world , for the sea be so rough that no fish would come in shore .
But they spear him , poor fellow , and I saw them carry him away upon a pole .
All , he lose his life for your sake , my child , poor dear obedient creature that he be . ''
And the otter grow so sentimental -LRB- for otter can be very sentimental when they choose , like a good many people who be both cruel and greedy , and no good to anybody at all -RRB- that she sail solemnly away down the burn , and Tom saw her no more for that time .
And lucky it be for her that she do so ; for no sooner be she go , than down the bank come seven little rough terrier door , snuff and yapping , and grub and splash , in full cry after the otter .
Tom hid among the water-lilies till they be go ; for he could not guess that they be the water-fairies come to help him .
But he could not help thinking of what the otter have say about the great river and the broad sea .
And , a he think , he long to go and see them .
He could not tell why ; but the more he think , the more he grow discontent with the narrow little stream in which he live , and all his companion there ; and want to get out into the wide wide world , and enjoy all the wonderful sight of which he be sure it be full .
And once he set off to go down the stream .
But the stream be very low ; and when he come to the shallow he could not keep under water , for there be no water leave to keep under .
So the sun burn his back and make him sick ; and he go back again and lay quiet in the pool for a whole week more .
And then , on the evening of a very hot day , he saw a sight .
He have be very stupid all day , and so have the trout ; for they would not move an inch to take a fly , though there be thousand on the water , but lay doze at the bottom under the shade of the stone ; and Tom lay doze too , and be glad to cuddle their smooth cool side , for the water be quite warm and unpleasant .
But toward even it grow suddenly dark , and Tom look up and saw a blanket of black cloud lie right across the valley above his head , rest on the crag right and leave .
He felt not quite frightened , but very still ; for everything be still .
There be not a whisper of wind , nor a chirp of a bird to be hear ; and next a few great drop of rain fell plop into the water , and one hit Tom on the nose , and make him pop his head down quickly enough .
And then the thunder roar , and the lightning flash , and leapt across Vendale and back again , from cloud to cloud , and cliff to cliff , till the very rock in the stream seem to shake : and Tom look up at it through the water , and think it the fine thing he ever saw in his life .
But out of the water he dare not put his head ; for the rain come down by bucketsful , and the hail hammer like shot on the stream , and churn it into foam ; and soon the stream rise , and rush down , high and high , and fouler and fouler , full of beetle , and stick ; and straw , and worm , and addle-eggs , and wood-lice , and leech , and odds and end , and omnium-gatherum , and this , that , and the other , enough to fill nine museum .
Tom could hardly stand against the stream , and hid behind a rock .
But the trout do not ; for out they rush from among the stone , and begin gobble the beetle and leech in the most greedy and quarrelsome way , and swim about with great worm hang out of their mouth , tug and kick to get them away from each other .
And now , by the flash of the lightning , Tom saw a new sight -- all the bottom of the stream alive with great eel , turn and twist along , all down stream and away .
They have be hide for week past in the crack of the rock , and in burrow in the mud ; and Tom have hardly ever see them , except now and then at night : but now they be all out , and go hurry past him so fiercely and wildly that he be quite frighten .
And a they hurry past he could hear them say to each other , `` We must run , we must run .
What a jolly thunderstorm !
Down to the sea , down to the sea ! ''
And then the otter come by with all her brood , twin and sweep along as fast a the eels themselves ; and she spy Tom a she come by , and say `` Now be your time , eft , if you want to see the world .
Come along , child , never mind those nasty eel : we shall breakfast on salmon to-morrow .
Down to the sea , down to the sea ! ''
Then come a flash brighter than all the rest , and by the light of it -- in the thousandth part of a second they be go again -- but he have see them , he be certain of it -- Three beautiful little white girl , with their arm twin round each other 's neck , float down the torrent , a they sing , `` Down to the sea , down to the sea ! ''
`` Oh stay !
Wait for me ! ''
cried Tom ; but they be go : yet he could hear their voice clear and sweet through the roar of thunder and water and wind , sing a they die away , `` Down to the sea ! ''
`` Down to the sea ? ''
say Tom ; `` everything be go to the sea , and I will go too .
Good-bye , trout . ''
But the trout be so busy gobble worm that they never turn to answer him ; so that Tom be spar the pain of bid them farewell .
And now , down the rushing stream , guide by the bright flash of the storm ; past tall birch-fringed rock , which shine out one moment as clear a day , and the next be dark a night ; past dark hovers under swirl bank , from which great trout rush out on Tom , think him to be good to eat , and turn back sulkily , for the fairy send them home again with a tremendous scolding , for dare to meddle with a water-baby ; on through narrow strids and roar cataract , where Tom be deafen and blind for a moment by the rushing water ; along deep reach , where the white water - lily toss and flap beneath the wind and hail ; past sleeping village ; under dark bridge-arches , and away and away to the sea .
And Tom could not stop , and do not care to stop ; he would see the great world below , and the salmon , and the breaker , and the wide wide sea .
And when the daylight come , Tom find himself out in the salmon river .
And what sort of a river be it ?
Was it like an Irish stream , wind through the brown bog , where the wild duck squatter up from among the white water-lilies , and the curlew flit to and fro , cry `` Tullie-wheep , mind your sheep ; '' and Dennis tell you strange story of the Peishtamore , the great bogy-snake which lie in the black peat pool , among the old pine-stems , and put his head out at night to snap at the cattle a they come down to drink ?
-- But you must not believe all that Dennis tell you , mind ; for if you ask him : `` Is there a salmon here , do you think , Dennis ? ''
`` Is it salmon , thin , your honour mane ?
Salmon ?
Cartloads it be of thim , thin , an ' ridgmens , shouldthering ache out of water , av ' ye 'd but the luck to see thim . ''
Then you fish the pool all over , and never get a rise .
`` But there ca n't be a salmon here , Dennis !
and , if you 'll but think , if one have come up last tide , he 'd be go to the high pool by now . ''
`` Shure thin , and your honour 's the thrue fisherman , and understand it all like a book .
Why , ye spake a if ye 'd know the wather a thousand year !
As I say , how could there be a fish here at all , just now ? ''
`` But you say just now they be shoulder each other out of water ? ''
And then Dennis will look up at you with his handsome , sly , soft , sleepy , good-natured , untrustable , Irish gray eye , and answer with the prettiest smile : `` Shure , and do n't I think your honour would like a pleasant answer ? ''
So you must not trust Dennis , because he be in the habit of give pleasant answer : but , instead of be angry with him , you must remember that he be a poor Paddy , and know no good ; so you must just burst out laughing ; and then he will burst out laugh too , and slave for you , and trot about after you , and show you good sport if he can -- for he be an affectionate fellow , and a fond of sport a you be -- and if he ca n't , tell you fibs instead , a hundred an hour ; and wonder all the while why poor ould Ireland do not prosper like England and Scotland , and some other place , where folk have take up a ridiculous fancy that honesty be the best policy .
Or be it like a Welsh salmon river , which be remarkable chiefly -LRB- at least , till this last year -RRB- for contain no salmon , a they have be all poach out by the enlightened peasantry , to prevent the Cythrawl Sassenach -LRB- which mean you , my little dear , your kith and kin , and signifies much the same a the Chinese Fan Quei -RRB- from come bother into Wales , with good tackle , and ready money , and civilisation , and common honesty , and other like thing of which the Cymry stand in no need whatsoever ?
Or be it such a salmon stream a I trust you will see among the Hampshire water-meadows before your hair be gray , under the wise new fishing-laws ?
-- when Winchester apprentice shall covenant , a they do three hundred year ago , not to be make to eat salmon more than three day a week ; and fresh-run fish shall be a plentiful under Salisbury spire a they be in Holly-hole at Christchurch ; in the good time come , when folk shall see that , of all Heaven 's gift of food , the one to be protect most carefully be that worthy gentleman salmon , who be generous enough to go down to the sea weigh five ounce , and to come back next year weigh five pound , without have cost the soil or the state one farthing ?
Or be it like a Scotch stream , such a Arthur Clough draw in his `` Bothie '' : - `` Where over a ledge of granite Into a granite bason the amber torrent descend ... Beautiful there for the colour derive from green rock under ; Beautiful most of all , where bead of foam uprise Mingle their cloud of white with the delicate hue of the stillness ... Cliff over cliff for it side , with rowan and pendant birch bough . ''
... Ah , my little man , when you be a big man , and fish such a stream a that , you will hardly care , I think , whether she be roar down in full spate , like coffee cover with scald cream , while the fish be swirl at your fly a an oar-blade swirl in a boat-race , or flash up the cataract like silver arrow , out of the fierce of the foam ; or whether the fall be dwindle to a single thread , and the shingle below be a white and dusty a a turnpike road , while the salmon huddle together in one dark cloud in the clear amber pool , sleep away their time till the rain creep back again off the sea .
You will not care much , if you have eye and brain ; for you will lay down your rod contentedly , and drink in at your eye the beauty of that glorious place ; and listen to the water-ouzel piping on the stone , and watch the yellow roes come down to drink and look up at you with their great soft trustful eye , as much a to say , `` You could not have the heart to shoot at u ? ''
And then , if you have sense , you will turn and talk to the great giant of a gilly who lie bask on the stone beside you .
He will tell you no fib , my little man ; for he be a Scotchman , and fear God , and not the priest ; and , a you talk with him , you will be surprise more and more at his knowledge , his sense , his humour , his courtesy ; and you will find out -- unless you have find it out before -- that a man may learn from his Bible to be a more thorough gentleman than if he have be bring up in all the drawing-rooms in London .
No .
It be none of these , the salmon stream at Harthover .
It be such a stream a you see in dear old Bewick ; Bewick , who be bear and breed upon them .
A full hundred yard broad it be , slide on from broad pool to broad shallow , and broad shallow to broad pool , over great field of shingle , under oak and ash covert , past low cliff of sandstone , past green meadow , and fair park , and a great house of gray stone , and brown moor above , and here and there against the sky the smoking chimney of a colliery .
You must look at Bewick to see just what it be like , for he have draw it a hundred time with the care and the love of a true north countryman ; and , even if you do not care about the salmon river , you ought , like all good boy , to know your Bewick .
At least , so old Sir John use to say , and very sensibly he put it too , a he be wont to do : `` If they want to describe a finished young gentleman in France , I hear , they say of him , ` Il sait son Rabelais . '
But if I want to describe one in England , I say , ` He know his Bewick . '
And I think that be the high compliment . ''
But Tom think nothing about what the river be like .
All his fancy be , to get down to the wide wide sea .
And after a while he come to a place where the river spread out into broad still shallow reach , so wide that little Tom , a he put his head out of the water , could hardly see across .
And there he stop .
He get a little frightened .
`` This must be the sea , '' he think .
`` What a wide place it be !
If I go on into it I shall surely lose my way , or some strange thing will bite me .
I will stop here and look out for the otter , or the eel , or some one to tell me where I shall go . ''
So he go back a little way , and creep into a crack of the rock , just where the river open out into the wide shallow , and watch for some one to tell him his way : but the otter and the eel be go on mile and mile down the stream .
There he wait , and sleep too , for he be quite tire with his night 's journey ; and , when he wake , the stream be clear to a beautiful amber hue , though it be still very high .
And after a while he saw a sight which make him jump up ; for he know in a moment it be one of the thing which he have come to look for .
Such a fish !
ten time as big a the big trout , and a hundred time as big a Tom , scull up the stream past him , as easily a Tom have scull down .
Such a fish !
shin silver from head to tail , and here and there a crimson dot ; with a grand hook nose and grand curling lip , and a grand bright eye , look round him as proudly a a king , and survey the water right and leave a if all belong to him .
Surely he must be the salmon , the king of all the fish .
Tom be so frightened that he long to creep into a hole ; but he need not have be ; for salmon be all true gentleman , and , like true gentleman , they look noble and proud enough , and yet , like true gentleman , they never harm or quarrel with any one , but go about their own business , and leave rude fellow to themselves .
The salmon look at him full in the face , and then go on without mind him , with a swish or two of his tail which make the stream boil again .
And in a few minute come another , and then four or five , and so on ; and all pass Tom , rush and plunge up the cataract with strong stroke of their silver tail , now and then leap clean out of water and up over a rock , shin gloriously for a moment in the bright sun ; while Tom be so delighted that he could have watch them all day long .
And at last one come up big than all the rest ; but he come slowly , and stop , and look back , and seem very anxious and busy .
And Tom saw that he be help another salmon , an especially handsome one , who have not a single spot upon it , but be clothe in pure silver from nose to tail .
`` My dear , '' say the great fish to his companion , `` you really look dreadfully tire , and you must not over-exert yourself at first .
Do rest yourself behind this rock ; '' and he shove her gently with his nose , to the rock where Tom sit .
You must know that this be the salmon 's wife .
For salmon , like other true gentleman , always choose their lady , and love her , and be true to her , and take care of her and work for her , and fight for her , a every true gentleman ought ; and be not like vulgar chub and roach and pike , who have no high feeling , and take no care of their wife .
Then he saw Tom , and look at him very fiercely one moment , a if he be go to bite him .
`` What do you want here ? ''
he say , very fiercely .
`` Oh , do n't hurt me ! ''
cry Tom .
`` I only want to look at you ; you be so handsome . ''
`` Ah ? ''
say the salmon , very stately but very civilly .
`` I really beg your pardon ; I see what you be , my little dear .
I have meet one or two creature like you before , and find them very agreeable and well-behaved .
Indeed , one of them show me a great kindness lately , which I hope to be able to repay .
I hope we shall not be in your way here .
As soon a this lady be rest , we shall proceed on our journey . ''
What a well-bred old salmon he be !
`` So you have see thing like me before ? ''
ask Tom .
`` Several time , my dear .
Indeed , it be only last night that one at the river 's mouth come and warn me and my wife of some new stake-nets which have get into the stream , I can not tell how , since last winter , and show u the way round them , in the most charmingly obliging way . ''
`` So there be baby in the sea ? ''
cried Tom , and clap his little hand .
`` Then I shall have some one to play with there ?
How delightful ! ''
`` Were there no baby up this stream ? ''
ask the lady salmon .
`` No !
and I grow so lonely .
I think I saw three last night ; but they be go in an instant , down to the sea .
So I go too ; for I have nothing to play with but caddises and dragon-flies and trout . ''
`` Ugh ! ''
cry the lady , `` what low company ! ''
`` My dear , if he have be in low company , he have certainly not learn their low manner , '' say the salmon .
`` No , indeed , poor little dear : but how sad for him to live among such people a caddises , who have actually six leg , the nasty thing ; and dragon-flies , too !
why they be not even good to eat ; for I try them once , and they be all hard and empty ; and , a for trout , every one know what they be . ''
Whereon she curl up her lip , and look dreadfully scornful , while her husband curl up his too , till he look as proud a Alcibiades .
`` Why do you dislike the trout so ? ''
ask Tom .
`` My dear , we do not even mention them , if we can help it ; for I be sorry to say they be relation of ours who do u no credit .
A great many year ago they be just like u : but they be so lazy , and cowardly , and greedy , that instead of go down to the sea every year to see the world and grow strong and fat , they choose to stay and poke about in the little stream and eat worm and grub ; and they be very properly punish for it ; for they have grow ugly and brown and spotted and small ; and be actually so degraded in their taste , that they will eat our child . ''
`` And then they pretend to scrape acquaintance with u again , '' say the lady .
`` Why , I have actually know one of them propose to a lady salmon , the little impudent little creature . ''
`` I should hope , '' say the gentleman , `` that there be very few lady of our race who would degrade themselves by listen to such a creature for an instant .
If I saw such a thing happen , I should consider it my duty to put them both to death upon the spot . ''
So the old salmon say , like an old blue-blooded hidalgo of Spain ; and what be more , he would have do it too .
For you must know , no enemy be so bitter against each other a those who be of the same race ; and a salmon look on a trout , a some great folk look on some little folk , a something just too much like himself to be tolerate .
CHAPTER IV `` Sweet be the lore which Nature bring ; Our meddle intellect Mis-shapes the beauteous form of thing We murder to dissect .
Enough of science and of art : Close up these barren leave ; Come forth , and bring with you a heart That watch and receives . ''
WORDSWORTH .
So the salmon go up , after Tom have warn them of the wicked old otter ; and Tom go down , but slowly and cautiously , coast along shore .
He be many day about it , for it be many mile down to the sea ; and perhaps he would never have find his way , if the fairy have not guide him , without his see their fair face , or feel their gentle hand .
And , a he go , he have a very strange adventure .
It be a clear still September night , and the moon shone so brightly down through the water , that he could not sleep , though he shut his eye as tight a possible .
So at last he come up to the top , and sit upon a little point of rock , and look up at the broad yellow moon , and wonder what she be , and think that she look at him .
And he watch the moonlight on the rippling river , and the black head of the fir , and the silver-frosted lawn , and listen to the owl 's hoot , and the snipe 's bleat , and the fox 's bark , and the otter 's laugh ; and smelt the soft perfume of the birch , and the waft of heather honey off the grouse moor far above ; and felt very happy , though he could not well tell why .
You , of course , would have be very cold sit there on a September night , without the least bit of clothes on your wet back ; but Tom be a water-baby , and therefore felt cold no more than a fish .
Suddenly , he saw a beautiful sight .
A bright red light move along the river-side , and throw down into the water a long tap-root of flame .
Tom , curious little rogue that he be , must need go and see what it be ; so he swim to the shore , and meet the light a it stop over a shallow run at the edge of a low rock .
And there , underneath the light , lay five or six great salmon , look up at the flame with their great goggle eye , and wag their tail , a if they be very much please at it .
Tom come to the top , to look at this wonderful light nearer , and make a splash .
And he hear a voice say : `` There be a fish rise . ''
He do not know what the word mean : but he seem to know the sound of them , and to know the voice which speak them ; and he saw on the bank three great two-legged creature , one of whom hold the light , flare and sputtering , and another a long pole .
And he know that they be men , and be frighten , and creep into a hole in the rock , from which he could see what go on .
The man with the torch bend down over the water , and look earnestly in ; and then he say : `` Tak ' that muckle fellow , lad ; he 's ower fifteen punds ; and haud your hand steady . ''
Tom felt that there be some danger come , and long to warn the foolish salmon , who keep star up at the light a if he be bewitch .
But before he could make up his mind , down come the pole through the water ; there be a fearful splash and struggle , and Tom saw that the poor salmon be spear right through , and be lift out of the water .
And then , from behind , there spring on these three men three other men ; and there be shout , and blow , and word which Tom recollect to have hear before ; and he shudder and turn sick at them now , for he felt somehow that they be strange , and ugly , and wrong , and horrible .
And it all begin to come back to him .
They be men ; and they be fight ; savage , desperate , up-and - down fight , such a Tom have see too many time before .
And he stop his little ear , and long to swim away ; and be very glad that he be a water-baby , and have nothing to do any more with horrid dirty men , with foul clothes on their back , and foul word on their lip ; but he dare not stir out of his hole : while the rock shook over his head with the trampling and struggling of the keeper and the poacher .
All of a sudden there be a tremendous splash , and a frightful flash , and a hissing , and all be still .
For into the water , close to Tom , fell one of the men ; he who hold the light in his hand .
Into the swift river he sink , and roll over and over in the current .
Tom hear the men above run along seemingly look for him ; but he drift down into the deep hole below , and there lay quite still , and they could not find him .
Tom wait a long time , till all be quiet ; and then he peep out , and saw the man lying .
At last he screw up his courage and swim down to him .
`` Perhaps , '' he think , `` the water have make him fall asleep , a it do me . ''
Then he go nearer .
He grow more and more curious , he could not tell why .
He must go and look at him .
He would go very quietly , of course ; so he swim round and round him , closer and closer ; and , a he do not stir , at last he come quite close and look him in the face .
The moon shone so bright that Tom could see every feature ; and , a he saw , he recollect , bit by bit , it be his old master , Grimes .
Tom turn tail , and swim away as fast a he could .
`` Oh dear me ! ''
he think , `` now he will turn into a water-baby .
What a nasty troublesome one he will be !
And perhaps he will find me out , and beat me again . ''
So he go up the river again a little way , and lay there the rest of the night under an alder root ; but , when morning come , he long to go down again to the big pool , and see whether Mr. Grimes have turn into a water-baby yet .
So he go very carefully , peep round all the rock , and hide under all the root .
Mr. Grimes lay there still ; he have not turn into a water-baby .
In the afternoon Tom go back again .
He could not rest till he have find out what have become of Mr. Grimes .
But this time Mr. Grimes be go ; and Tom make up his mind that he be turn into a water-baby .
He might have make himself easy , poor little man ; Mr. Grimes do not turn into a water-baby , or anything like one at all .
But he do not make himself easy ; and a long time he be fearful l he should meet Grimes suddenly in some deep pool .
He could not know that the fairy have carry him away , and put him , where they put everything which fall into the water , exactly where it ought to be .
But , do you know , what have happen to Mr. Grimes have such an effect on him that he never poach salmon any more .
And it be quite certain that , when a man become a confirmed poacher , the only way to cure him be to put him under water for twenty-four hour , like Grimes .
So when you grow to be a big man , do you behave a all honest fellow should ; and never touch a fish or a head of game which belong to another man without his express leave ; and then people will call you a gentleman , and treat you like one ; and perhaps give you good sport : instead of hit you into the river , or call you a poach snob .
Then Tom go on down , for he be afraid of stay near Grimes : and a he go , all the vale look sad .
The red and yellow leaf shower down into the river ; the fly and beetle be all dead and go ; the chill autumn fog lay low upon the hill , and sometimes spread itself so thickly on the river that he could not see his way .
But he felt his way instead , follow the flow of the stream , day after day , past great bridge , past boat and barge , past the great town , with it wharf , and mill , and tall smoking chimney , and ship which ride at anchor in the stream ; and now and then he run against their hawser , and wonder what they be , and peep out , and saw the sailor lounge on board smoke their pipe ; and duck under again , for he be terribly afraid of be catch by man and turn into a chimney-sweep once more .
He do not know that the fairy be close to him always , shut the sailor ' eye lest they should see him , and turn him aside from millrace , and sewer-mouths , and all foul and dangerous thing .
Poor little fellow , it be a dreary journey for him ; and more than once he long to be back in Vendale , play with the trout in the bright summer sun .
But it could not be .
What have be once can never come over again .
And people can be little baby , even water-babies , only once in their life .
Besides , people who make up their mind to go and see the world , a Tom do , must need find it a weary journey .
Lucky for them if they do not lose heart and stop half-way , instead of go on bravely to the end a Tom do .
For then they will remain neither boy nor men , neither fish , flesh , nor good red-herring : have learn a great deal too much , and yet not enough ; and sow their wild oat , without have the advantage of reap them .
But Tom be always a brave , determine , little English bull-dog , who never know when he be beat ; and on and on he hold , till he saw a long way off the red buoy through the fog .
And then he find to his surprise , the stream turn round , and run up inland .
It be the tide , of course : but Tom know nothing of the tide .
He only know that in a minute more the water , which have be fresh , turn salt all round him .
And then there come a change over him .
He felt a strong , and light , and fresh , a if his vein have run champagne ; and give , he do not know why , three skip out of the water , a yard high , and head over heel , just a the salmon do when they first touch the noble rich salt water , which , a some wise men tell u , be the mother of all living thing .
He do not care now for the tide be against him .
The red buoy be in sight , dance in the open sea ; and to the buoy he would go , and to it he go .
He pass great shoal of bass and mullet , leap and rush in after the shrimp , but he never heed them , or they him ; and once he pass a great black shin seal , who be come in after the mullet .
The seal put his head and shoulder out of water , and star at him , look exactly like a fat old greasy negro with a gray pate .
And Tom , instead of be frighten , say , `` How d 'ye do , sir ; what a beautiful place the sea be ! ''
And the old seal , instead of try to bite him , look at him with his soft sleepy wink eye , and say , `` Good tide to you , my little man ; be you look for your brother and sister ?
I pass them all at play outside . ''
`` Oh , then , '' say Tom , `` I shall have playfellow at last , '' and he swim on to the buoy , and get upon it -LRB- for he be quite out of breath -RRB- and sat there , and look round for water-babies : but there be none to be see .
The sea-breeze come in freshly with the tide and blow the fog away ; and the little wave dance for joy around the buoy , and the old buoy dance with them .
The shadow of the cloud run race over the bright blue bay , and yet never catch each other up ; and the breaker plunge merrily upon the wide white sand , and jump up over the rock , to see what the green field inside be like , and tumble down and break themselves all to piece , and never mind it a bit , but mend themselves and jump up again .
And the tern hover over Tom like huge white dragon-flies with black head , and the gull laugh like girl at play , and the sea-pies , with their red bill and leg , fly to and fro from shore to shore , and whistle sweet and wild .
And Tom look and look , and listen ; and he would have be very happy , if he could only have see the water-babies .
Then when the tide turn , he leave the buoy , and swam round and round in search of them : but in vain .
Sometimes he think he hear them laugh : but it be only the laughter of the ripple .
And sometimes he think he saw them at the bottom : but it be only white and pink shell .
And once he be sure he have find one , for he saw two bright eye peep out of the sand .
So he dive down , and begin scrap the sand away , and cry , `` Do n't hide ; I do want some one to play with so much ! ''
And out jump a great turbot with his ugly eye and mouth all awry , and flop away along the bottom , knock poor Tom over .
And he sit down at the bottom of the sea , and cry salt tear from sheer disappointment .
To have come all this way , and face so many danger , and yet to find no water-babies !
How hard !
Well , it do seem hard : but people , even little baby , can not have all they want without wait for it , and work for it too , my little man , a you will find out some day .
And Tom sit upon the buoy long day , long week , look out to sea , and wonder when the water-babies would come back ; and yet they never come .
Then he begin to ask all the strange thing which come in out of the sea if they have see any ; and some say `` Yes , '' and some say nothing at all .
He ask the bass and the pollock ; but they be so greedy after the shrimp that they do not care to answer him a word .
Then there come in a whole fleet of purple sea-snails , float along , each on a sponge full of foam , and Tom say , `` Where do you come from , you pretty creature ?
and have you see the water - baby ? ''
And the sea-snails answered , `` Whence we come we know not ; and whither we be go , who can tell ?
We float out our life in the mid-ocean , with the warm sunshine above our head , and the warm gulf-stream below ; and that be enough for u .
Yes ; perhaps we have see the water-babies .
We have see many strange thing a we sail along . ''
And they float away , the happy stupid thing , and all go ashore upon the sand .
Then there come in a great lazy sunfish , as big a a fat pig cut in half ; and he seem to have be cut in half too , and squeeze in a clothes-press till he be flat ; but to all his big body and big fin he have only a little rabbit 's mouth , no big than Tom 's ; and , when Tom question him , he answer in a little squeaky feeble voice : `` I 'm sure I do n't know ; I 've lose my way .
I mean to go to the Chesapeake , and I 'm afraid I 've get wrong somehow .
Dear me !
it be all by follow that pleasant warm water .
I 'm sure I 've lose my way . ''
And , when Tom ask him again , he could only answer , `` I 've lose my way .
Do n't talk to me ; I want to think . ''
But , like a good many other people , the more he try to think the less he could think ; and Tom saw him blunder about all day , till the coast-guardsmen saw his big fin above the water , and row out , and strike a boat-hook into him , and take him away .
They take him up to the town and show him for a penny a head , and make a good day 's work of it .
But of course Tom do not know that .
Then there come by a shoal of porpoise , roll a they go -- papa , and mamma , and little child -- and all quite smooth and shiny , because the fairy French-polish them every morning ; and they sigh so softly a they come by , that Tom take courage to speak to them : but all they answer be , `` Hush , hush , hush ; '' for that be all they have learn to say .
And then there come a shoal of bask shark ' some of them as long a a boat , and Tom be frighten at them .
But they be very lazy good-natured fellow , not greedy tyrant , like white shark and blue shark and ground shark and hammer-heads , who eat men , or saw-fish and thresher and ice-sharks , who hunt the poor old whale .
They come and rub their great side against the buoy , and lay bask in the sun with their backfins out of water ; and wink at Tom : but he never could get them to speak .
They have eat so many herring that they be quite stupid ; and Tom be glad when a collier brig come by and frighten them all away ; for they do smell most horribly , certainly , and he have to hold his nose tight as long a they be there .
And then there come by a beautiful creature , like a ribbon of pure silver with a sharp head and very long teeth ; but it seem very sick and sad .
Sometimes it roll helpless on it side ; and then it dash away glitter like white fire ; and then it lay sick again and motionless .
`` Where do you come from ? ''
ask Tom .
`` And why be YOU so sick and sad ? ''
`` I come from the warm Carolinas , and the sandbank fringe with pine ; where the great owl-rays leap and flap , like giant bat , upon the tide .
But I wander north and north , upon the treacherous warm gulf-stream , till I meet with the cold iceberg , afloat in the mid ocean .
So I get tangle among the iceberg , and chill with their frozen breath .
But the water-babies help me from among them , and set me free again .
And now I be mend every day ; but I be very sick and sad ; and perhaps I shall never get home again to play with the owl-rays any more . ''
`` Oh ! ''
cry Tom .
`` And you have see water-babies ?
Have you see any near here ? ''
`` Yes ; they help me again last night , or I should have be eat by a great black porpoise . ''
How vexatious !
The water-babies close to him , and yet he could not find one .
And then he leave the buoy , and use to go along the sand and round the rock , and come out in the night -- like the forsaken Merman in Mr. Arnold 's beautiful , beautiful poem , which you must learn by heart some day -- and sit upon a point of rock , among the shin sea-weeds , in the low October tide , and cry and call for the water-babies ; but he never hear a voice call in return .
And at last , with his fretting and cry , he grow quite lean and thin .
But one day among the rock he find a playfellow .
It be not a water-baby , ala !
but it be a lobster ; and a very distinguished lobster he be ; for he have live barnacle on his claw , which be a great mark of distinction in lobsterdom , and no more to be buy for money than a good conscience or the Victoria Cross .
Tom have never see a lobster before ; and he be mightily take with this one ; for he think him the most curious , odd , ridiculous creature he have ever see ; and there he be not far wrong ; for all the ingenious men , and all the scientific men , and all the fanciful men , in the world , with all the old German bogy-painters into the bargain , could never invent , if all their wit be boil into one , anything so curious , and so ridiculous , a a lobster .
He have one claw knobbed and the other jagged ; and Tom delight in watch him hold on to the seaweed with his knobbed claw , while he cut up salad with his jagged one , and then put them into his mouth , after smell at them , like a monkey .
And always the little barnacle throw out their casting-nets and sweep the water , and come in for their share of whatever there be for dinner .
But Tom be most astonished to see how he fire himself off -- snap !
like the leap-frogs which you make out of a goose 's breast-bone .
Certainly he take the most wonderful shot , and backwards , too .
For , if he want to go into a narrow crack ten yard off , what do you think he do ?
If he have go in head foremost , of course he could not have turn round .
So he use to turn his tail to it , and lay his long horn , which carry his sixth sense in their tip -LRB- and nobody know what that sixth sense be -RRB- , straight down his back to guide him , and twist his eye back till they almost come out of their socket , and then make ready , present , fire , snap !
-- and away he go , pop into the hole ; and peep out and twiddle his whisker , as much a to say , `` You could n't do that . ''
Tom ask him about water-babies .
`` Yes , '' he say .
He have see them often .
But he do not think much of them .
They be meddlesome little creature , that go about help fish and shell which get into scrape .
Well , for his part , he should be ashamed to be help by little soft creature that have not even a shell on their back .
He have live quite long enough in the world to take care of himself .
He be a conceited fellow , the old lobster , and not very civil to Tom ; and you will hear how he have to alter his mind before he be do , a conceited people generally have .
But he be so funny , and Tom so lonely , that he could not quarrel with him ; and they use to sit in hole in the rock , and chat for hour .
And about this time there happen to Tom a very strange and important adventure -- so important , indeed , that he be very near never find the water-babies at all ; and I be sure you would have be sorry for that .
I hope that you have not forget the little white lady all this while .
At least , here she come , look like a clean white good little darling , a she always be , and always will be .
For it befall in the pleasant short December day , when the wind always blow from the south-west , till Old Father Christmas come and spread the great white table-cloth , ready for little boy and girl to give the bird their Christmas dinner of crumb -- it befell -LRB- to go on -RRB- in the pleasant December day , that Sir John be so busy hunt that nobody at home could get a word out of him .
Four day a week he hunt , and very good sport he have ; and the other two he go to the bench and the board of guardian , and very good justice he do ; and , when he get home in time , he din at five ; for he hat this absurd new fashion of din at eight in the hunting season , which force a man to make interest with the footman for cold beef and beer as soon a he come in , and so spoil his appetite , and then sleep in an arm-chair in his bedroom , all stiff and tired , for two or three hour before he can get his dinner like a gentleman .
And do you be like Sir John , my dear little man , when you be your own master ; and , if you want either to read hard or ride hard , stick to the good old Cambridge hour of breakfast at eight and dinner at five ; by which you may get two day ' work out of one .
But , of course , if you find a fox at three in the afternoon and run him till dark , and leave off twenty mile from home , why you must wait for your dinner till you can get it , a good men than you have do .
Only see that , if you go hungry , your horse do not ; but give him his warm gruel and beer , and take him gently home , remember that good horse do n't grow on the hedge like blackberry .
It befell -LRB- to go on a second time -RRB- that Sir John , hunt all day , and din at five , fell asleep every evening , and snore so terribly that all the window in Harthover shook , and the soot fell down the chimney .
Whereon My Lady , be no more able to get conversation out of him than a song out of a dead nightingale , determine to go off and leave him , and the doctor , and Captain Swinger the agent , to snore in concert every evening to their heart ' content .
So she start for the seaside with all the child , in order to put herself and them into condition by mild application of iodine .
She might as well have stay at home and use Parry 's liquid horse-blister , for there be plenty of it in the stable ; and then she would have save her money , and save the chance , also , of make all the child ill instead of well -LRB- a hundred be make -RRB- , by take them to some nasty smelling undrained lodging , and then wonder how they catch scarlatina and diphtheria : but people wo n't be wise enough to understand that till they be dead of bad smell , and then it will be too late ; besides you see , Sir John do certainly snore very loud .
But where she go to nobody must know , for fear young lady should begin to fancy that there be water-babies there !
and so hunt and howk after them -LRB- besides raise the price of lodging -RRB- , and keep them in aquarium , a the lady at Pompeii -LRB- a you may see by the painting -RRB- use to keep Cupids in cage .
But nobody ever hear that they starve the Cupids , or let them die of dirt and neglect , a English young lady do by the poor sea-beasts .
So nobody must know where My Lady go .
Letting water-babies die be as bad a take sing bird ' egg ; for , though there be thousand , ay , million , of both of them in the world , yet there be not one too many .
Now it befall that , on the very shore , and over the very rock , where Tom be sit with his friend the lobster , there walk one day the little white lady , Ellie herself , and with her a very wise man indeed -- Professor Ptthmllnsprts .
His mother be a Dutchwoman , and therefore he be bear at Curacao -LRB- of course you have learn your geography , and therefore know why -RRB- ; and his father a Pole , and therefore he be bring up at Petropaulowski -LRB- of course you have learn your modern politics , and therefore know why -RRB- : but for all that he be a thorough an Englishman a ever covet his neighbour 's good .
And his name , a I say , be Professor Ptthmllnsprts , which be a very ancient and noble Polish name .
He be , a I say , a very great naturalist , and chief professor of Necrobioneopalaeonthydrochthonanthropopithekology in the new university which the king of the Cannibal Islands have found ; and , be a member of the Acclimatisation Society , he have come here to collect all the nasty thing which he could find on the coast of England , and turn them loose round the Cannibal Islands , because they have not nasty thing enough there to eat what they leave .
But he be a very worthy kind good-natured little old gentleman ; and very fond of child -LRB- for he be not the least a cannibal himself -RRB- ; and very good to all the world as long a it be good to him .
Only one fault he have , which cock-robins have likewise , a you may see if you look out of the nursery window -- that , when any one else find a curious worm , he would hop round them , and peck them , and set up his tail , and bristle up his feather , just a a cock-robin would ; and declare that he find the worm first ; and that it be his worm ; and , if not , that then it be not a worm at all .
He have meet Sir John at Scarborough , or Fleetwood , or somewhere or other -LRB- if you do n't care where , nobody else do -RRB- , and have make acquaintance with him , and become very fond of his child .
Now , Sir John know nothing about sea-cockyolybirds , and care less , provide the fishmonger send him good fish for dinner ; and My Lady know a little : but she think it proper that the child should know something .
For in the stupid old time , you must understand , child be teach to know one thing , and to know it well ; but in these enlighten new time they be taught to know a little about everything , and to know it all ill ; which be a great deal pleasanter and easy , and therefore quite right .
So Ellie and he be walk on the rock , and he be show her about one in ten thousand of all the beautiful and curious thing which be to be see there .
But little Ellie be not satisfy with them at all .
She like much good to play with live child , or even with doll , which she could pretend be alive ; and at last she say honestly , `` I do n't care about all these thing , because they ca n't play with me , or talk to me .
If there be little child now in the water , a there use to be , and I could see them , I should like that . ''
`` Children in the water , you strange little duck ? ''
say the professor .
`` Yes , '' say Ellie .
`` I know there use to be child in the water , and mermaid too , and merman .
I saw them all in a picture at home , of a beautiful lady sailing in a car drawn by dolphin , and baby fly round her , and one sitting in her lap ; and the mermaid swimming and playing , and the merman trumpet on conch-shells ; and it be call ` The Triumph of Galatea ; ' and there be a burn mountain in the picture behind .
It hang on the great staircase , and I have look at it ever since I be a baby , and dream about it a hundred time ; and it be so beautiful , that it must be true . ''
But the professor have not the least notion of allow that thing be true , merely because people think them beautiful .
For at that rate , he say , the Baltas would be quite right in think it a fine thing to eat their grandpapas , because they think it an ugly thing to put them underground .
The professor , indeed , go far , and hold that no man be force to believe anything to be true , but what he could see , hear , taste , or handle .
He hold very strange theory about a good many thing .
He have even get up once at the British Association , and declare that ape have hippopotamus major in their brain just a men have .
Which be a shocking thing to say ; for , if it be so , what would become of the faith , hope , and charity of immortal million ?
You may think that there be other more important difference between you and an ape , such a be able to speak , and make machine , and know right from wrong , and say your prayer , and other little matter of that kind ; but that be a child 's fancy , my dear .
Nothing be to be depend on but the great hippopotamus test .
If you have a hippopotamus major in your brain , you be no ape , though you have four hand , no foot , and be more apish than the ape of all apery .
But if a hippopotamus major be ever discover in one single ape 's brain , nothing will save your great-great-great-great - great-great-great-great-great-great-great-greater-greatest - grandmother from have be an ape too .
No , my dear little man ; always remember that the one true , certain , final , and all - important difference between you and an ape be , that you have a hippopotamus major in your brain , and it have none ; and that , therefore , to discover one in it brain will be a very wrong and dangerous thing , at which every one will be very much shock , a we may suppose they be at the professor .
-- Though really , after all , it do n't much matter ; because -- a Lord Dundreary and others would put it -- nobody but men have hippopotamus in their brain ; so , if a hippopotamus be discover in an ape 's brain , why it would not be one , you know , but something else .
But the professor have go , I be sorry to say , even far than that ; for he have read at the British Association at Melbourne , Australia , in the year 1999 , a paper which assure every one who find himself the good or wise for the news , that there be not , never have be , and could not be , any rational or half - rational being except men , anywhere , anywhen , or anyhow ; that nymphs , satyr , faun , inui , dwarf , troll , elf , gnome , fairy , brownie , nix , will , kobolds , leprechaunes , cluricaunes , banshee , will-o ' - the-wisps , follets , lutins , magots , goblin , afrits , marids , jinns , ghoul , peri , deevs , angel , archangel , imp , bogy , or bad , be nothing at all , and pure bosh and wind .
And he have to get up very early in the morning to prove that , and to eat his breakfast overnight ; but he do it , at least to his own satisfaction .
Whereon a certain great divine , and a very clever divine be he , call him a regular Sadducee ; and probably he be quite right .
Whereon the professor , in return , call him a regular Pharisee ; and probably he be quite right too .
But they do not quarrel in the least ; for , when men be men of the world , hard word run off them like water off a duck 's back .
So the professor and the divine meet at dinner that evening , and sit together on the sofa afterwards for an hour , and talk over the state of female labour on the antarctic continent -LRB- for nobody talk shop after his claret -RRB- , and each vow that the other be the best company he ever meet in his life .
What an advantage it be to be men of the world !
From all which you may guess that the professor be not the least of little Ellie 's opinion .
So he give her a succinct compendium of his famous paper at the British Association , in a form suit for the youthful mind .
But , a we have go over his argument against water-babies once already , which be once too often , we will not repeat them here .
Now little Ellie be , I suppose , a stupid little girl ; for , instead of be convince by Professor Ptthmllnsprts ' argument , she only ask the same question over again .
`` But why be there not water-babies ? ''
I trust and hope that it be because the professor trod at that moment on the edge of a very sharp mussel , and hurt one of his corn sadly , that he answer quite sharply , forget that he be a scientific man , and therefore ought to have know that he could n't know ; and that he be a logician , and therefore ought to have know that he could not prove a universal negative -- I say , I trust and hope it be because the mussel hurt his corn , that the professor answer quite sharply : `` Because there ai n't . ''
Which be not even good English , my dear little boy ; for , a you must know from Aunt Agitate 's Arguments , the professor ought to have say , if he be so angry a to say anything of the kind -- Because there be not : or be none : or be none of them ; or -LRB- if he have be read Aunt Agitate too -RRB- because they do not exist .
And he grope with his net under the weed so violently , that , a it befall , he catch poor little Tom .
He felt the net very heavy ; and lift it out quickly , with Tom all entangle in the mesh .
`` Dear me ! ''
he cry .
`` What a large pink Holothurian ; with hand , too !
It must be connect with Synapta . ''
And he take him out .
`` It have actually eye ! ''
he cry .
`` Why , it must be a Cephalopod !
This be most extraordinary ! ''
`` No , I ai n't ! ''
cried Tom , as loud a he could ; for he do not like to be call bad name .
`` It be a water-baby ! ''
cried Ellie ; and of course it be .
`` Water-fiddlesticks , my dear ! ''
say the professor ; and he turn away sharply .
There be no deny it .
It be a water-baby : and he have say a moment ago that there be none .
What be he to do ?
He would have like , of course , to have take Tom home in a bucket .
He would not have put him in spirit .
Of course not .
He would have keep him alive , and pet him -LRB- for he be a very kind old gentleman -RRB- , and write a book about him , and give him two long name , of which the first would have say a little about Tom , and the second all about himself ; for of course he would have call him Hydrotecnon Ptthmllnsprtsianum , or some other long name like that ; for they be force to call everything by long name now , because they have use up all the short one , ever since they take to make nine specie out of one .
But -- what would all the learned men say to him after his speech at the British Association ?
And what would Ellie say , after what he have just tell her ?
There be a wise old heathen once , who say , `` Maxima debetur pueris reverentia '' -- The great reverence be due to child ; that be , that grown people should never say or do anything wrong before child , l they should set them a bad example .
-- Cousin Cramchild say it mean , `` The great respectfulness be expect from little boy . ''
But he be raise in a country where little boy be not expect to be respectful , because all of them be as good a the President : - Well , every one know his own concern best ; so perhaps they be .
But poor Cousin Cramchild , to do him justice , not be of that opinion , and have a moral mission , and be no scholar to speak of , and hard up for an authority -- why , it be a very great temptation for him .
But some people , and I be afraid the professor be one of them , interpret that in a more strange , curious , one-sided , left-handed , topsy-turvy , inside-out , behind-before fashion than even Cousin Cramchild ; for they make it mean , that you must show your respect for child , by never confess yourself in the wrong to them , even if you know that you be so , l they should lose confidence in their elder .
Now , if the professor have say to Ellie , `` Yes , my darling , it be a water-baby , and a very wonderful thing it be ; and it show how little I know of the wonder of nature , in spite of forty year ' honest labour .
I be just tell you that there could be no such creature ; and , behold !
here be one come to confound my conceit and show me that Nature can do , and have do , beyond all that man 's poor fancy can imagine .
So , let u thank the Maker , and Inspirer , and Lord of Nature for all His wonderful and glorious work , and try and find out something about this one ; '' -- I think that , if the professor have say that , little Ellie would have believe him more firmly , and respect him more deeply , and love him good , than ever she have do before .
But he be of a different opinion .
He hesitate a moment .
He long to keep Tom , and yet he half wish he never have catch him ; and at last he quite long to get rid of him .
So he turn away and poke Tom with his finger , for want of anything well to do ; and say carelessly , `` My dear little maid , you must have dreamt of water-babies last night , your head be so full of them . ''
Now Tom have be in the most horrible and unspeakable fright all the while ; and have keep as quiet a he could , though he be call a Holothurian and a Cephalopod ; for it be fix in his little head that if a man with clothes on caught him , he might put clothes on him too , and make a dirty black chimney-sweep of him again .
But , when the professor poke him , it be more than he could bear ; and , between fright and rage , he turn to bay as valiantly a a mouse in a corner , and bite the professor 's finger till it bleed .
`` Oh !
ah !
yah ! ''
cry he ; and glad of an excuse to be rid of Tom , drop him on to the seaweed , and thence he dive into the water and be go in a moment .
`` But it be a water-baby , and I hear it speak ! ''
cry Ellie .
`` Ah , it be go ! ''
And she jump down off the rock , to try and catch Tom before he slip into the sea .
Too late !
and what be bad , a she spring down , she slip , and fell some six foot , with her head on a sharp rock , and lay quite still .
The professor pick her up , and try to waken her , and call to her , and cry over her , for he love her very much : but she would not waken at all .
So he take her up in his arm and carry her to her governess , and they all go home ; and little Ellie be put to bed , and lay there quite still ; only now and then she wake up and call out about the water-baby : but no one know what she mean , and the professor do not tell , for he be ashamed to tell .
And , after a week , one moonlight night , the fairy come fly in at the window and bring her such a pretty pair of wing that she could not help put them on ; and she fly with them out of the window , and over the land , and over the sea , and up through the cloud , and nobody heard or saw anything of her for a very long while .
And this be why they say that no one have ever yet see a water - baby .
For my part , I believe that the naturalist get dozen of them when they be out dredge ; but they say nothing about them , and throw them overboard again , for fear of spoil their theory .
But , you see the professor be find out , a every one be in due time .
A very terrible old fairy find the professor out ; she felt his bump , and cast his nativity , and take the lunars of him carefully inside and out ; and so she know what he would do as well a if she have see it in a print book , a they say in the dear old west country ; and he do it ; and so he be find out beforehand , a everybody always be ; and the old fairy will find out the naturalist some day , and put them in the Times , and then on whose side will the laugh be ?
So the old fairy take him in hand very severely there and then .
But she say she be always most severe with the best people , because there be most chance of cure them , and therefore they be the patient who pay her best ; for she have to work on the same salary a the Emperor of China 's physician -LRB- it be a pity that all do not -RRB- , no cure , no pay .
So she take the poor professor in hand : and because he be not content with thing a they be , she fill his head with thing a they be not , to try if he would like them good ; and because he do not choose to believe in a water-baby when he saw it , she make him believe in bad thing than water-babies -- in unicorn , fire - drake , manticora , basilisk , amphisbaena , griffin , phoenix , roc , orcs , dog-headed men , three-headed dog , three-bodied geryon , and other pleasant creature , which folks think never exist yet , and which folk hope never will exist , though they know nothing about the matter , and never will ; and these creature so upset , terrified , fluster , aggravate , confuse , astound , horrify , and totally flabbergast the poor professor that the doctor say that he be out of his wit for three month ; and perhaps they be right , a they be now and then .
So all the doctor in the county be call in to make a report on his case ; and of course every one of them flatly contradict the other : else what use be there in be men of science ?
But at last the majority agree on a report in the true medical language , one half bad Latin , the other half bad Greek , and the rest what might have be English , if they have only learnt to write it .
And this be the begin thereof - `` The subanhypaposupernal anastomosis of peritomic diacellurite in the encephalo digital region of the distinguish individual of whose symptomatic phoenomena we have the melancholy honour -LRB- subsequently to a preliminary diagnostic inspection -RRB- of make an inspectorial diagnosis , present the interexclusively quadrilateral and antinomian diathesis know a Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle , we proceed '' - But what they proceed to do My Lady never know ; for she be so frighten at the long word that she run for her life , and lock herself into her bedroom , for fear of be squash by the word and strangle by the sentence .
A boa constrictor , she say , be bad company enough : but what be a boa constrictor make of pave stone ?
`` It be quite shock !
What can they think be the matter with him ? ''
say she to the old nurse .
`` That his wit 's just addle ; may be wi ' unbelief and heathenry , '' quoth she .
`` Then why ca n't they say so ? ''
And the heaven , and the sea , and the rock , and the vale re - echoed -- `` Why indeed ? ''
But the doctor never hear them .
So she make Sir John write to the Times to command the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the time be to put a tax on long word ; - A light tax on word over three syllable , which be necessary evil , like rat : but , like them , must be keep down judiciously .
A heavy tax on word over four syllable , a heterodoxy , spontaneity , spiritualism , spuriosity , etc . .
And on word over five syllable -LRB- of which I hope no one will wish to see any example -RRB- , a totally prohibitory tax .
And a similar prohibitory tax on word derive from three or more language at once ; word derive from two language have become so common that there be no more hope of root out them than of root out peth-winds .
The Chancellor of the Exchequer , be a scholar and a man of sense , jump at the notion ; for he saw in it the one and only plan for abolish Schedule D : but when he bring in his bill , most of the Irish member , and -LRB- I be sorry to say -RRB- some of the Scotch likewise , oppose it most strongly , on the ground that in a free country no man be bind either to understand himself or to let others understand him .
So the bill fell through on the first reading ; and the Chancellor , be a philosopher , comfort himself with the thought that it be not the first time that a woman have hit off a grand idea and the men turn up their stupid nose thereat .
Now the doctor have it all their own way ; and to work they go in earnest , and they give the poor professor diver and sundry medicine , a prescribe by the ancient and modern , from Hippocrates to Feuchtersleben , a below , viz .
- 1 .
Hellebore , to wit - Hellebore of AEta .
Hellebore of Galatia .
Hellebore of Sicily .
And all other Hellebores , after the method of the Helleborising Helleborists of the Helleboric era .
But that would not do .
Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle would not stir an inch out of his encephalo digital region .
2 .
Trying to find out what be the matter with him , after the method of Hippocrates , Aretaeus , Celsus , Coelius Aurelianus , And Galen .
But they find that a great deal too much trouble , a most people have since ; and so have recourse to - 3 .
Borage .
Cauteries .
Boring a hole in his head to let out fume , which -LRB- say Gordonius -RRB- `` will , without doubt , do much good . ''
But it do n't .
Bezoar stone .
Diamargaritum .
A ram 's brain boil in spice .
Oil of wormwood .
Water of Nile .
Capers .
Good wine -LRB- but there be none to be get -RRB- .
The water of a smith 's forge .
Ambergris .
Mandrake pillow .
Dormouse fat .
Hares ' ear .
Starvation .
Camphor .
Salts and senna .
Musk .
Opium .
Strait-waistcoats .
Bullyings .
Bumpings .
Bleedings .
Bucketings with cold water .
Knockings down .
Kneeling on his chest till they break it in , etc . etc . ; after the medieval or monkish method : but that would not do .
Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle stick there still .
Then - 4 .
Coaxing .
Kissing .
Champagne and turtle .
Red herring and soda water .
Good advice .
Gardening .
Croquet .
Musical soiree .
Aunt Salty .
Mild tobacco .
The Saturday Review .
A carriage with outrider , etc . etc . .
After the modern method .
But that would not do .
And if he have but be a convict lunatic , and have shoot at the Queen , kill all his creditor to avoid pay them , or indulge in any other little amiable eccentricity of that kind , they would have give him in addition - The healthy situation in England , on Easthampstead Plain .
Free run of Windsor Forest .
The Times every morning .
A double-barrelled gun and pointer , and leave to shoot three Wellington College boys a week -LRB- not more -RRB- in case black game be scarce .
But a he be neither mad enough nor bad enough to be allow such luxury , they grow desperate , and fell into bad way , viz .
- 5 .
Suffumigations of sulphur .
Herrwiggius his `` Incomparable drink for madman : '' Only they could not find out what it be .
Suffumigation of the liver of the fish * * * Only they have forget it name , so Dr. Gray could not well procure them a specimen .
Metallic tractor .
Holloway 's Ointment .
Electro-biology .
Valentine Greatrakes his Stroking Cure .
Spirit-rapping .
Holloway 's Pills .
Table-turning .
Morison 's Pills .
Homoeopathy .
Parr 's Life Pills .
Mesmerism .
Pure Bosh .
Exorcisms , for which the read Maleus Maleficarum , Nideri Formicarium , Delrio , Wierus , etc . .
But could not get one that mention water-babies .
Hydropathy .
Madame Rachel 's Elixir of Youth .
The Poughkeepsie Seer his Prophecies .
The distilled liquor of addle egg .
Pyropathy .
As successfully employ by the old inquisitor to cure the malady of thought , and now by the Persian Mollahs to cure that of rheumatism .
Geopathy , or bury him .
Atmopathy , or steam him .
Sympathy , after the method of Basil Valentine his Triumph of Antimony , and Kenelm Digby his Weapon-salve , which some call a hair of the dog that bite him .
Hermopathy , or pour mercury down his throat to move the animal spirit .
Meteoropathy , or go up to the moon to look for his lose wit , a Ruggiero do for Orlando Furioso 's : only , have no hippogriff , they be force to use a balloon ; and , fall into the North Sea , be pick up by a Yarmouth herring-boat , and come home much the wiser , and all over scale .
Antipathy , or use him like `` a man and a brother . ''
Apathy , or do nothing at all .
With all other ipathies and opathies which Noodle have invent , and Foodle try , since black-fellows chip flint at Abbeville -- which be a considerable time ago , to judge by the Great Exhibition .
But nothing would do ; for he scream and cry all day for a water-baby , to come and drive away the monster ; and of course they do not try to find one , because they do not believe in them , and be think of nothing but Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle ; have , a usual , set the cart before the horse , and take the effect for the cause .
So they be force at last to let the poor professor ease his mind by write a great book , exactly contrary to all his old opinion ; in which he prove that the moon be make of green cheese , and that all the mite in it -LRB- which you may see sometimes quite plain through a telescope , if you will only keep the lens dirty enough , a Mr. Weekes keep his voltaic battery -RRB- be nothing in the world but little baby , who be hatch and swarm up there in million , ready to come down into this world whenever child want a new little brother or sister .
Which must be a mistake , for this one reason : that , there be no atmosphere round the moon -LRB- though some one or other say there be , at least on the other side , and that he have be round at the back of it to see , and find that the moon be just the shape of a Bath bun , and so wet that the man in the moon go about on Midsummer - day in Macintoshes and Cording 's boot , spear eel and sneeze -RRB- ; that , therefore , I say , there be no atmosphere , there can be no evaporation ; and therefore the dew-point can never fall below 71.5 degree below zero of Fahrenheit : and , therefore , it can not be cold enough there about four o'clock in the morning to condense the baby ' mesenteric apophthegm into their left ventricle ; and , therefore , they can never catch the hooping-cough ; and if they do not have hooping-cough , they can not be baby at all ; and , therefore , there be no baby in the moon .
-- Q.E.D . Which may seem a roundabout reason ; and so , perhaps , it be : but you will have hear bad one in your time , and from good men than you be .
But one thing be certain ; that , when the good old doctor get his book write , he felt considerably relieve from Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle , and a few thing infinitely worse ; to wit , from pride and vain-glory , and from blindness and hardness of heart ; which be the true cause of Bumpsterhausen 's blue follicle , and of a good many other ugly thing besides .
Whereon the foul flood - water in his brain run down , and clear to a fine coffee colour , such a fish like to rise in , till very fine clean fresh-run fish do begin to rise in his brain ; and he catch two or three of them -LRB- which be exceedingly fine sport , for brain river -RRB- , and anatomise them carefully , and never mention what he find out from them , except to little child ; and become ever after a sadder and a wiser man ; which be a very good thing to become , my dear little boy , even though one have to pay a heavy price for the blessing .
CHAPTER V `` Stern Lawgiver !
yet thou dost wear The Godhead 's most benignant grace ; Nor know we anything so fair As be the smile upon thy face : Flowers laugh before thee on their bed And fragrance in thy footing tread ; Thou dost preserve the star from wrong ; And the most ancient heaven , through Thee , be fresh and strong . ''
WORDSWORTH , Ode to Duty .
What become of little Tom ?
He slip away off the rock into the water , a I say before .
But he could not help thinking of little Ellie .
He do not remember who she be ; but he know that she be a little girl , though she be a hundred time as big a he .
That be not surprising : size have nothing to do with kindred .
A tiny weed may be first cousin to a great tree ; and a little dog like Vick know that Lioness be a dog too , though she be twenty time large than herself .
So Tom know that Ellie be a little girl , and think about her all that day , and long to have have her to play with ; but he have very soon to think of something else .
And here be the account of what happen to him , a it be publish next morning , in the Water-proof Gazette , on the fine watered paper , for the use of the great fairy , Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid , who read the news very carefully every morning , and especially the police case , a you will hear very soon .
He be go along the rock in three-fathom water , watch the pollock catch prawn , and the wrasse nibble barnacle off the rock , shell and all , when he saw a round cage of green withe ; and inside it , look very much ashamed of himself , sit his friend the lobster , twiddle his horn , instead of thumb .
`` What , have you be naughty , and have they put you in the lock - up ? ''
ask Tom .
The lobster felt a little indignant at such a notion , but he be too much depress in spirit to argue ; so he only say , `` I ca n't get out . ''
`` Why do you get in ? ''
`` After that nasty piece of dead fish . ''
He have think it look and smelt very nice when he be outside , and so it do , for a lobster : but now he turn round and abuse it because he be angry with himself .
`` Where do you get in ? ''
`` Through that round hole at the top . ''
`` Then why do n't you get out through it ? ''
`` Because I ca n't : '' and the lobster twiddle his horn more fiercely than ever , but he be force to confess .
`` I have jump upwards , downwards , backwards , and sideways , at least four thousand time ; and I ca n't get out : I always get up underneath there , and ca n't find the hole . ''
Tom look at the trap , and have more wit than the lobster , he saw plainly enough what be the matter ; a you may if you will look at a lobster-pot .
`` Stop a bit , '' say Tom .
`` Turn your tail up to me , and I 'll pull you through hindforemost , and then you wo n't stick in the spike . ''
But the lobster be so stupid and clumsy that he could n't hit the hole .
Like a great many fox-hunters , he be very sharp as long a he be in his own country ; but as soon a they get out of it they lose their head ; and so the lobster , so to speak , lose his tail .
Tom reach and claw down the hole after him , till he catch hold of him ; and then , a be to be expect , the clumsy lobster pull him in head foremost .
`` Hullo !
here be a pretty business , '' say Tom .
`` Now take your great claw , and break the point off those spike , and then we shall both get out easily . ''
`` Dear me , I never think of that , '' say the lobster ; `` and after all the experience of life that I have have ! ''
You see , experience be of very little good unless a man , or a lobster , have wit enough to make use of it .
For a good many people , like old Polonius , have see all the world , and yet remain little good than child after all .
But they have not get half the spike away when they saw a great dark cloud over them : and lo , and behold , it be the otter .
How she do grin and grin when she saw Tom .
`` Yar ! ''
say she , `` you little meddlesome wretch , I have you now !
I will serve you out for tell the salmon where I be ! ''
And she crawl all over the pot to get in .
Tom be horribly frighten , and still more frightened when she find the hole in the top , and squeeze herself right down through it , all eye and teeth .
But no sooner be her head inside than valiant Mr . Lobster catch her by the nose and hold on .
And there they be all three in the pot , roll over and over , and very tight pack it be .
And the lobster tore at the otter , and the otter tore at the lobster , and both squeeze and thump poor Tom till he have no breath leave in his body ; and I do n't know what would have happen to him if he have not at last get on the otter 's back , and safe out of the hole .
He be right glad when he get out : but he would not desert his friend who have save him ; and the first time he saw his tail uppermost he catch hold of it , and pull with all his might .
But the lobster would not let go .
`` Come along , '' say Tom ; `` do n't you see she be dead ? ''
And so she be , quite drowned and dead .
And that be the end of the wicked otter .
But the lobster would not let go .
`` Come along , you stupid old stick-in-the-mud , '' cry Tom , `` or the fisherman will catch you ! ''
And that be true , for Tom felt some one above begin to haul up the pot .
But the lobster would not let go .
Tom saw the fisherman haul him up to the boat-side , and think it be all up with him .
But when Mr . Lobster saw the fisherman , he give such a furious and tremendous snap , that he snap out of his hand , and out of the pot , and safe into the sea .
But he leave his knobbed claw behind him ; for it never come into his stupid head to let go after all , so he just shake his claw off a the easy method .
It be something of a bull , that ; but you must know the lobster be an Irish lobster , and be hatch off Island Magee at the mouth of Belfast Lough .
Tom ask the lobster why he never think of let go .
He say very determinedly that it be a point of honour among lobster .
And so it be , a the Mayor of Plymouth find out once to his cost -- eight or nine hundred year ago , of course ; for if it have happen lately it would be personal to mention it .
For one day he be so tired with sit on a hard chair , in a grand furred gown , with a gold chain round his neck , hear one policeman after another come in and sing , `` What shall we do with the drunken sailor , so early in the morning ? ''
and answer them each exactly alike : `` Put him in the round house till he get sober , so early in the morning '' - That , when it be over , he jump up , and play leap-frog with the town-clerk till he burst his button , and then have his luncheon , and burst some more button , and then say : `` It be a low spring - tide ; I shall go out this afternoon and cut my caper . ''
Now he do not mean to cut such caper a you eat with boiled mutton .
It be the commandant of artillery at Valetta who use to amuse himself with cut them , and who stick upon one of the bastion a notice , `` No one allow to cut caper here but me , '' which greatly edify the midshipman in port , and the Maltese on the Nix Mangiare stairs .
But all that the mayor meant be that he would go and have an afternoon 's fun , like any schoolboy , and catch lobster with an iron hook .
So to the Mewstone he go , and for lobster he look .
And when he come to a certain crack in the rock he be so excited that , instead of put in his hook , he put in his hand ; and Mr . Lobster be at home , and catch him by the finger , and hold on .
`` Yah ! ''
say the mayor , and pull as hard a he dare : but the more he pull , the more the lobster pinch , till he be force to be quiet .
Then he try to get his hook in with his other hand ; but the hole be too narrow .
Then he pull again ; but he could not stand the pain .
Then he shout and bawl for help : but there be no one nearer him than the men-of-war inside the breakwater .
Then he begin to turn a little pale ; for the tide flow , and still the lobster hold on .
Then he turn quite white ; for the tide be up to his knee , and still the lobster hold on .
Then he think of cut off his finger ; but he want two thing to do it with -- courage and a knife ; and he have get neither .
Then he turn quite yellow ; for the tide be up to his waist , and still the lobster hold on .
Then he think over all the naughty thing he ever have do ; all the sand which he have put in the sugar , and the sloe-leaves in the tea , and the water in the treacle , and the salt in the tobacco -LRB- because his brother be a brewer , and a man must help his own kin -RRB- .
Then he turn quite blue ; for the tide be up to his breast , and still the lobster hold on .
Then , I have no doubt , he repent fully of all the say naughty thing which he have do , and promise to mend his life , a too many do when they think they have no life leave to mend .
Whereby , a they fancy , they make a very cheap bargain .
But the old fairy with the birch rod soon undeceive them .
And then he grow all colour at once , and turn up his eye like a duck in thunder ; for the water be up to his chin , and still the lobster hold on .
And then come a man-of-war 's boat round the Mewstone , and saw his head stick up out of the water .
One say it be a keg of brandy , and another that it be a cocoa-nut , and another that it be a buoy loose , and another that it be a black diver , and want to fire at it , which would not have be pleasant for the mayor : but just then such a yell come out of a great hole in the middle of it that the midshipman in charge guess what it be , and bid pull up to it as fast a they could .
So somehow or other the Jack-tars get the lobster out , and set the mayor free , and put him ashore at the Barbican .
He never go lobster-catching again ; and we will hope he put no more salt in the tobacco , not even to sell his brother 's beer .
And that be the story of the Mayor of Plymouth , which have two advantage -- first , that of be quite true ; and second , that of have -LRB- a folk say all good story ought to have -RRB- no moral whatsoever : no more , indeed , have any part of this book , because it be a fairy tale , you know .
And now happen to Tom a most wonderful thing ; for he have not leave the lobster five minute before he come upon a water-baby .
A real live water-baby , sit on the white sand , very busy about a little point of rock .
And when it saw Tom it look up for a moment , and then cry , `` Why , you be not one of u .
You be a new baby !
Oh , how delightful ! ''
And it run to Tom , and Tom run to it , and they hug and kiss each other for ever so long , they do not know why .
But they do not want any introduction there under the water .
At last Tom say , `` Oh , where have you be all this while ?
I have be look for you so long , and I have be so lonely . ''
`` We have be here for day and day .
There be hundred of u about the rock .
How be it you do not see u , or hear u when we sing and romp every evening before we go home ? ''
Tom look at the baby again , and then he say : `` Well , this be wonderful !
I have see thing just like you again and again , but I think you be shell , or sea-creatures .
I never take you for water-babies like myself . ''
Now , be not that very odd ?
So odd , indeed , that you will , no doubt , want to know how it happen , and why Tom could never find a water-baby till after he have get the lobster out of the pot .
And , if you will read this story nine time over , and then think for yourself , you will find out why .
It be not good for little boy to be tell everything , and never to be force to use their own wit .
They would learn , then , no more than they do at Dr. Dulcimer 's famous suburban establishment for the idler member of the youthful aristocracy , where the master learn the lesson and the boy hear them -- which save a great deal of trouble -- for the time be .
`` Now , '' say the baby , `` come and help me , or I shall not have finish before my brother and sister come , and it be time to go home . ''
`` What shall I help you at ? ''
`` At this poor dear little rock ; a great clumsy boulder come roll by in the last storm , and knock all it head off , and rub off all it flower .
And now I must plant it again with seaweed , and coralline , and anemone , and I will make it the pretty little rock-garden on all the shore . ''
So they work away at the rock , and plant it , and smooth the sand down round , it , and capital fun they have till the tide begin to turn .
And then Tom hear all the other baby come , laugh and sing and shout and romp ; and the noise they make be just like the noise of the ripple .
So he know that he have be hear and see the water-babies all along ; only he do not know them , because his eye and ear be not open .
And in they come , dozen and dozen of them , some big than Tom and some small , all in the neat little white bathing dress ; and when they find that he be a new baby , they hug him and kiss him , and then put him in the middle and dance round him on the sand , and there be no one ever so happy a poor little Tom .
`` Now then , '' they cry all at once , `` we must come away home , we must come away home , or the tide will leave u dry .
We have mend all the broken sea-weed , and put all the rock-pools in order , and plant all the shell again in the sand , and nobody will see where the ugly storm swept in last week . ''
And this be the reason why the rock-pools be always so neat and clean ; because the water-babies come inshore after every storm to sweep them out , and comb them down , and put them all to right again .
Only where men be wasteful and dirty , and let sewer run into the sea instead of put the stuff upon the field like thrifty reasonable soul ; or throw herring ' head and dead dog-fish , or any other refuse , into the water ; or in any way make a mess upon the clean shore -- there the water-babies will not come , sometimes not for hundred of year -LRB- for they can not abide anything smelly or foul -RRB- , but leave the sea-anemones and the crab to clear away everything , till the good tidy sea have cover up all the dirt in soft mud and clean sand , where the water-babies can plant live cockle and whelk and razor-shells and sea-cucumbers and golden - comb , and make a pretty live garden again , after man 's dirt be clear away .
And that , I suppose , be the reason why there be no water-babies at any watering-place which I have ever see .
And where be the home of the water-babies ?
In St. Brandan 's fairy isle .
Did you never hear of the blessed St. Brandan , how he preach to the wild Irish on the wild , wild Kerry coast , he and five other hermit , till they be weary and long to rest ?
For the wild Irish would not listen to them , or come to confession and to mass , but like good to brew potheen , and dance the pater o'pee , and knock each other over the head with shillelagh , and shoot each other from behind turf-dykes , and steal each other 's cattle , and burn each other 's home ; till St. Brandan and his friend be weary of them , for they would not learn to be peaceable Christians at all .
So St. Brandan go out to the point of Old Dunmore , and look over the tide-way roaring round the Blasquets , at the end of all the world , and away into the ocean , and sigh -- `` Ah that I have wing a a dove ! ''
And far away , before the setting sun , he saw a blue fairy sea , and golden fairy island , and he say , `` Those be the island of the blest . ''
Then he and his friend get into a hooker , and sail away and away to the westward , and be never hear of more .
But the people who would not hear him be change into gorilla , and gorilla they be until this day .
And when St. Brandan and the hermit come to that fairy isle they find it overgrown with cedar and full of beautiful bird ; and he sit down under the cedar and preach to all the bird in the air .
And they like his sermon so well that they tell the fish in the sea ; and they come , and St. Brandan preach to them ; and the fish tell the water-babies , who live in the cave under the isle ; and they come up by hundred every Sunday , and St. Brandan get quite a neat little Sunday-school .
And there he teach the water - baby for a great many hundred year , till his eye grow too dim to see , and his beard grow so long that he dare not walk for fear of tread on it , and then he might have tumble down .
And at last he and the five hermit fell fast asleep under the cedar - shade , and there they sleep unto this day .
But the fairy take to the water-babies , and teach them their lesson themselves .
And some say that St. Brandan will awake and begin to teach the baby once more : but some think that he will sleep on , for good for bad , till the come of the Cocqcigrues .
But , on still clear summer evening , when the sun sink down into the sea , among golden cloud-capes and cloud-islands , and lock and friths of azure sky , the sailor fancy that they see , away to westward , St. Brandan 's fairy isle .
But whether men can see it or not , St. Brandan 's Isle once actually stand there ; a great land out in the ocean , which have sunk and sunk beneath the wave .
Old Plato call it Atlantis , and tell strange tale of the wise men who live therein , and of the war they fight in the old time .
And from off that island come strange flower , which linger still about this land : - the Cornish heath , and Cornish moneywort , and the delicate Venus 's hair , and the London-pride which cover the Kerry mountain , and the little pink butterwort of Devon , and the great blue butterwort of Ireland , and the Connemara heath , and the bristle-fern of the Turk waterfall , and many a strange plant more ; all fairy tokens leave for wise men and good child from off St. Brandan 's Isle .
Now when Tom get there , he find that the isle stand all on pillar , and that it root be full of cave .
There be pillar of black basalt , like Staffa ; and pillar of green and crimson serpentine , like Kynance ; and pillar ribboned with red and white and yellow sandstone , like Livermead ; and there be blue grotto like Capri , and white grotto like Adelsberg ; all curtain and drape with seaweed , purple and crimson , green and brown ; and strew with soft white sand , on which the water-babies sleep every night .
But , to keep the place clean and sweet , the crab pick up all the scrap off the floor and eat them like so many monkey ; while the rock be cover with ten thousand sea-anemones , and coral and madrepore , who scavenge the water all day long , and keep it nice and pure .
But , to make up to them for have to do such nasty work , they be not leave black and dirty , a poor chimney-sweeps and dustman be .
No ; the fairy be more considerate and just than that , and have dress them all in the most beautiful colour and pattern , till they look like vast flower-beds of gay blossom .
If you think I be talk nonsense , I can only say that it be true ; and that an old gentleman name Fourier use to say that we ought to do the same by chimney-sweeps and dustman , and honour them instead of despise them ; and he be a very clever old gentleman : but , unfortunately for him and the world , as mad a a March hare .
And , instead of watchman and policeman to keep out nasty thing at night , there be thousand and thousand of water-snakes , and most wonderful creature they be .
They be all name after the Nereids , the sea-fairies who take care of them , Eunice and Polynoe , Phyllodoce and Psamathe , and all the rest of the pretty darling who swim round their Queen Amphitrite , and her car of cameo shell .
They be dress in green velvet , and black velvet , and purple velvet ; and be all joint in ring ; and some of them have three hundred brain apiece , so that they must have be uncommonly shrewd detective ; and some have eye in their tail ; and some have eye in every joint , so that they keep a very sharp look-out ; and when they want a baby-snake , they just grow one at the end of their own tail , and when it be able to take care of itself it drop off ; so that they bring up their family very cheaply .
But if any nasty thing come by , out they rush upon it ; and then out of each of their hundred of foot there spring a whole cutler 's shop of Scythes , Javelins , Billhooks , Lances , Pickaxes , Halberts , Forks , Gisarines , Penknives , Poleaxes , Rapiers , Fishhooks , Sabres , Bradawls , Yataghans , Gimblets , Creeses , Corkscrews , Ghoorka sword , Pins , Tucks , Needles , And so forth , which stab , shot , poke , prick , scratch , rip , pink , and crimp those naughty beast so terribly , that they have to run for their life , or else be chop into small piece and be eat afterwards .
And , if that be not all , every word , true , then there be no faith in microscope , and all be over with the Linnaean Society .
And there be the water-babies in thousand , more than Tom , or you either , could count .
-- All the little child whom the good fairy take to , because their cruel mother and father will not ; all who be untaught and bring up heathen , and all who come to grief by ill-usage or ignorance or neglect ; all the little child who be overlay , or give gin when they be young , or be let to drink out of hot kettle , or to fall into the fire ; all the little child in alley and court , and tumble-down cottage , who die by fever , and cholera , and measles , and scarlatina , and nasty complaint which no one have any business to have , and which no one will have some day , when folk have common sense ; and all the little child who have be kill by cruel master and wicked soldier ; they be all there , except , of course , the babe of Bethlehem who be kill by wicked King Herod ; for they be take straight to heaven long ago , a everybody know , and we call them the Holy Innocents .
But I wish Tom have give up all his naughty trick , and leave off torment dumb animal now that he have plenty of playfellow to amuse him .
Instead of that , I be sorry to say , he would meddle with the creature , all but the water-snakes , for they would stand no nonsense .
So he tickle the madrepore , to make them shut up ; and frighten the crab , to make them hide in the sand and peep out at him with the tip of their eye ; and put stone into the anemone ' mouth , to make them fancy that their dinner be come .
The other child warn him , and say , `` Take care what you be at .
Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid be come . ''
But Tom never heed them , be quite riotous with high spirit and good luck , till , one Friday morning early , Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid come indeed .
A very tremendous lady she be ; and when the child saw her they all stand in a row , very upright indeed , and smooth down their bathing dress , and put their hand behind them , just a if they be go to be examine by the inspector .
And she have on a black bonnet , and a black shawl , and no crinoline at all ; and a pair of large green spectacle , and a great hooked nose , hook so much that the bridge of it stand quite up above her eyebrow ; and under her arm she carry a great birch-rod .
Indeed , she be so ugly that Tom be tempt to make face at her : but do not ; for he do not admire the look of the birch-rod under her arm .
And she look at the child one by one , and seem very much please with them , though she never ask them one question about how they be behave ; and then begin give them all sort of nice sea-things -- sea-cakes , sea-apples , sea-oranges , sea-bullseyes , sea-toffee ; and to the very best of all she give sea-ices , make out of sea-cows ' cream , which never melt under water .
And , if you do n't quite believe me , then just think -- What be more cheap and plentiful than sea-rock ?
Then why should there not be sea-toffee a well ?
And every one can find sea-lemons -LRB- ready quarter too -RRB- if they will look for them at low tide ; and sea - grape too sometimes , hang in bunch ; and , if you will go to Nice , you will find the fish-market full of sea-fruit , which they call `` frutta di mare : '' though I suppose they call them `` fruit de mer '' now , out of compliment to that most successful , and therefore most immaculate , potentate who be seemingly desirous of inherit the blessing pronounce on those who remove their neighbour ' land - mark .
And , perhaps , that be the very reason why the place be call Nice , because there be so many nice thing in the sea there : at least , if it be not , it ought to be .
Now little Tom watch all these sweet thing give away , till his mouth water , and his eye grow as round a an owl 's .
For he hop that his turn would come at last ; and so it do .
For the lady call him up , and hold out her finger with something in them , and pop it into his mouth ; and , lo and behold , it be a nasty cold hard pebble .
`` You be a very cruel woman , '' say he , and begin to whimper .
`` And you be a very cruel boy ; who put pebble into the sea - anemone ' mouth , to take them in , and make them fancy that they have catch a good dinner !
As you do to them , so I must do to you . ''
`` Who tell you that ? ''
say Tom .
`` You do yourself , this very minute . ''
Tom have never open his lip ; so he be very much take aback indeed .
`` Yes ; every one tell me exactly what they have do wrong ; and that without know it themselves .
So there be no use try to hide anything from me .
Now go , and be a good boy , and I will put no more pebble in your mouth , if you put none in other creature ' . ''
`` I do not know there be any harm in it , '' say Tom .
`` Then you know now .
People continually say that to me : but I tell them , if you do n't know that fire burn , that be no reason that it should not burn you ; and if you do n't know that dirt breed fever , that be no reason why the fever should not kill you .
The lobster do not know that there be any harm in get into the lobster - pot ; but it catch him all the same . ''
`` Dear me , '' think Tom , `` she know everything ! ''
And so she do , indeed .
`` And so , if you do not know that thing be wrong that be no reason why you should not be punish for them ; though not as much , not a much , my little man '' -LRB- and the lady look very kindly , after all -RRB- , `` a if you do know . ''
`` Well , you be a little hard on a poor lad , '' say Tom .
`` Not at all ; I be the best friend you ever have in all your life .
But I will tell you ; I can not help punish people when they do wrong .
I like it no more than they do ; I be often very , very sorry for them , poor thing : but I can not help it .
If I try not to do it , I should do it all the same .
For I work by machinery , just like an engine ; and be full of wheel and spring inside ; and be wind up very carefully , so that I can not help go . ''
`` Was it long ago since they wind you up ? ''
ask Tom .
For he think , the cunning little fellow , `` She will run down some day : or they may forget to wind her up , a old Grimes use to forget to wind up his watch when he come in from the public-house ; and then I shall be safe . ''
`` I be wind up once and for all , so long ago , that I forget all about it . ''
`` Dear me , '' say Tom , `` you must have be make a long time ! ''
`` I never be make , my child ; and I shall go for ever and ever ; for I be as old a Eternity , and yet as young a Time . ''
And there come over the lady 's face a very curious expression -- very solemn , and very sad ; and yet very , very sweet .
And she look up and away , a if she be gaze through the sea , and through the sky , at something far , far off ; and a she do so , there come such a quiet , tender , patient , hopeful smile over her face that Tom think for the moment that she do not look ugly at all .
And no more she do ; for she be like a great many people who have not a pretty feature in their face , and yet be lovely to behold , and draw little child 's heart to them at once because though the house be plain enough , yet from the window a beautiful and good spirit be look forth .
And Tom smile in her face , she look so pleasant for the moment .
And the strange fairy smile too , and say : `` Yes .
You think me very ugly just now , do you not ? ''
Tom hang down his head , and get very red about the ear .
`` And I be very ugly .
I be the ugly fairy in the world ; and I shall be , till people behave themselves a they ought to do .
And then I shall grow as handsome a my sister , who be the lovely fairy in the world ; and her name be Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby .
So she begin where I end , and I begin where she end ; and those who will not listen to her must listen to me , a you will see .
Now , all of you run away , except Tom ; and he may stay and see what I be go to do .
It will be a very good warning for him to begin with , before he go to school .
`` Now , Tom , every Friday I come down here and call up all who have ill-used little child and serve them a they serve the child . ''
And at that Tom be frighten , and creep under a stone ; which make the two crab who live there very angry , and frighten their friend the butter-fish into flap hysteric : but he would not move for them .
And first she call up all the doctor who give little child so much physic -LRB- they be most of them old one ; for the young one have learn well , all but a few army surgeon , who still fancy that a baby 's inside be much like a Scotch grenadier 's -RRB- , and she set them all in a row ; and very rueful they look ; for they know what be come .
And first she pull all their teeth out ; and then she bleed them all round : and then she dose them with calomel , and jalap , and salt and senna , and brimstone and treacle ; and horrible face they make ; and then she give them a great emetic of mustard and water , and no basons ; and begin all over again ; and that be the way she spend the morning .
And then she call up a whole troop of foolish lady , who pinch up their child 's waist and toe ; and she lace them all up in tight stay , so that they be choke and sick , and their nose grow red , and their hand and foot swell ; and then she cram their poor foot into the most dreadfully tight boot , and make them all dance , which they do most clumsily indeed ; and then she ask them how they like it ; and when they say not at all , she let them go : because they have only do it out of foolish fashion , fancy it be for their child 's good , a if wasp ' waist and pig ' toe could be pretty , or wholesome , or of any use to anybody .
Then she call up all the careless nurserymaids , and stuck pin into them all over , and wheel them about in perambulator with tight strap across their stomach and their head and arm hang over the side , till they be quite sick and stupid , and would have have sun-strokes : but , be under the water , they could only have water-strokes ; which , I assure you , be nearly a bad , a you will find if you try to sit under a mill-wheel .
And mind -- when you hear a rumbling at the bottom of the sea , sailor will tell you that it be a ground-swell : but now you know good .
It be the old lady wheel the maid about in perambulator .
And by that time she be so tired , she have to go to luncheon .
And after luncheon she set to work again , and call up all the cruel schoolmaster -- whole regiment and brigade of them ; and when she saw them , she frown most terribly , and set to work in earnest , a if the best part of the day 's work be to come .
More than half of them be nasty , dirty , frowzy , grubby , smelly old monk , who , because they dare not hit a man of their own size , amuse themselves with beat little child instead ; a you may see in the picture of old Pope Gregory -LRB- good man and true though he be , when he meddle with thing which he do understand -RRB- , teach child to sing their fa-fa-mi-fa with a cat-o ' - nine tail under his chair : but , because they never have any child of their own , they take into their head -LRB- a some folk do still -RRB- that they be the only people in the world who know how to manage child : and they first bring into England , in the old Anglo-Saxon time , the fashion of treat free boy , and girl too , bad than you would treat a dog or a horse : but Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid have catch them all long ago ; and give them many a taste of their own rod ; and much good may it do them .
And she box their ear , and thump them over the head with ruler , and pandied their hand with cane , and tell them that they tell story , and be this and that bad sort of people ; and the more they be very indignant , and stand upon their honour , and declare they tell the truth , the more she declare they be not , and that they be only tell lie ; and at last she birch them all round soundly with her great birch-rod and set them each an imposition of three hundred thousand line of Hebrew to learn by heart before she come back next Friday .
And at that they all cry and howl so , that their breath come all up through the sea like bubble out of soda-water ; and that be one reason of the bubble in the sea .
There be others : but that be the one which principally concern little boy .
And by that time she be so tired that she be glad to stop ; and , indeed , she have do a very good day 's work .
Tom do not quite dislike the old lady : but he could not help think her a little spiteful -- and no wonder if she be , poor old soul ; for if she have to wait to grow handsome till people do a they would be do by , she will have to wait a very long time .
Poor old Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid !
she have a great deal of hard work before her , and have good have be bear a washerwoman , and stand over a tub all day : but , you see , people can not always choose their own profession .
But Tom long to ask her one question ; and after all , whenever she look at him , she do not look cross at all ; and now and then there be a funny smile in her face , and she chuckle to herself in a way which give Tom courage , and at last he say : `` Pray , ma'am , may I ask you a question ? ''
`` Certainly , my little dear . ''
`` Why do n't you bring all the bad master here and serve them out too ?
The butty that knock about the poor collier-boys ; and the nailer that file off their lad ' nose and hammer their finger ; and all the master sweep , like my master Grimes ?
I saw him fall into the water long ago ; so I surely expect he would have be here .
I 'm sure he be bad enough to me . ''
Then the old lady look so very stern that Tom be quite frighten , and sorry that he have be so bold .
But she be not angry with him .
She only answer , `` I look after them all the week round ; and they be in a very different place from this , because they know that they be do wrong . ''
She speak very quietly ; but there be something in her voice which make Tom tingle from head to foot , a if he have get into a shoal of sea-nettles .
`` But these people , '' she go on , `` do not know that they be do wrong : they be only stupid and impatient ; and therefore I only punish them till they become patient , and learn to use their common sense like reasonable being .
But a for chimney-sweeps , and collier-boys , and nailer lad , my sister have set good people to stop all that sort of thing ; and very much oblige to her I be ; for if she could only stop the cruel master from ill-using poor child , I should grow handsome at least a thousand year sooner .
And now do you be a good boy , and do a you would be do by , which they do not ; and then , when my sister , MADAME DOASYOUWOULDBEDONEBY , come on Sunday , perhaps she will take notice of you , and teach you how to behave .
She understand that good than I do . ''
And so she go .
Tom be very glad to hear that there be no chance of meet Grimes again , though he be a little sorry for him , consider that he use sometimes to give him the leaving of the beer : but he determine to be a very good boy all Saturday ; and he be ; for he never frighten one crab , nor tickle any live coral , nor put stone into the sea anemone ' mouth , to make them fancy they have get a dinner ; and when Sunday morning come , sure enough , MRS. DOASYOUWOULDBEDONEBY come too .
Whereat all the little child begin dance and clap their hand , and Tom dance too with all his might .
And a for the pretty lady , I can not tell you what the colour of her hair be , or , of her eye : no more could Tom ; for , when any one look at her , all they can think of be , that she have the sweet , kind , tender , funny , merry face they ever saw , or want to see .
But Tom saw that she be a very tall woman , as tall a her sister : but instead of be gnarly and horny , and scaly , and prickly , like her , she be the most nice , soft , fat , smooth , pussy , cuddly , delicious creature who ever nurse a baby ; and she understand baby thoroughly , for she have plenty of her own , whole row and regiment of them , and have to this day .
And all her delight be , whenever she have a spare moment , to play with baby , in which she show herself a woman of sense ; for baby be the best company , and the pleasantest playfellows , in the world ; at least , so all the wise people in the world think .
And therefore when the child saw her , they naturally all catch hold of her , and pull her till she sit down on a stone , and climb into her lap , and clung round her neck , and catch hold of her hand ; and then they all put their thumb into their mouth , and begin cuddle and purr like so many kitten , a they ought to have do .
While those who could get nowhere else sit down on the sand , and cuddle her foot -- for no one , you know , wear shoe in the water , except horrid old bathing-women , who be afraid of the water-babies pinch their horny toe .
And Tom stand star at them ; for he could not understand what it be all about .
`` And who be you , you little darling ? ''
she say .
`` Oh , that be the new baby ! ''
they all cry , pull their thumb out of their mouth ; `` and he never have any mother , '' and they all put their thumb back again , for they do not wish to lose any time .
`` Then I will be his mother , and he shall have the very best place ; so get out , all of you , this moment . ''
And she take up two great armful of baby -- nine hundred under one arm , and thirteen hundred under the other -- and throw them away , right and leave , into the water .
But they mind it no more than the naughty boy in Struwelpeter mind when St. Nicholas dip them in his inkstand ; and do not even take their thumb out of their mouth , but come paddling and wriggle back to her like so many tadpole , till you could see nothing of her from head to foot for the swarm of little baby .
But she take Tom in her arm , and lay him in the soft place of all , and kiss him , and pat him , and talk to him , tenderly and low , such thing a he have never hear before in his life ; and Tom look up into her eye , and love her , and love , till he fell fast asleep from pure love .
And when he wake she be tell the child a story .
And what story do she tell them ?
One story she tell them , which begin every Christmas Eve , and yet never end at all for ever and ever ; and , a she go on , the child take their thumb out of their mouth and listen quite seriously ; but not sadly at all ; for she never tell them anything sad ; and Tom listen too , and never grow tired of listen .
And he listen so long that he fell fast asleep again , and , when he wake , the lady be nurse him still .
`` Do n't go away , '' say little Tom .
`` This be so nice .
I never have any one to cuddle me before . ''
`` Do n't go away , '' say all the child ; `` you have not sing u one song . ''
`` Well , I have time for only one .
So what shall it be ? ''
`` The doll you lose !
The doll you lose ! ''
cry all the baby at once .
So the strange fairy sang : - I once have a sweet little doll , dear , The pretty doll in the world ; Her cheek be so red and so white , dear , And her hair be so charmingly curl .
But I lose my poor little doll , dear , As I play in the heath one day ; And I cry for her more than a week , dear , But I never could find where she lay .
I find my poor little doll , dear , As I play in the heath one day : Folks say she be terribly change , dear , For her paint be all wash away , And her arm trodden off by the cow , dear , And her hair not the least bit curled : Yet , for old sake ' sake she be still , dear , The pretty doll in the world .
What a silly song for a fairy to sing !
And what silly water-babies to be quite delight at it !
Well , but you see they have not the advantage of Aunt Agitate 's Arguments in the sea-land down below .
`` Now , '' say the fairy to Tom , `` will you be a good boy for my sake , and torment no more sea-beasts till I come back ? ''
`` And you will cuddle me again ? ''
say poor little Tom .
`` Of course I will , you little duck .
I should like to take you with me and cuddle you all the way , only I must not ; '' and away she go .
So Tom really try to be a good boy , and torment no sea-beasts after that as long a he live ; and he be quite alive , I assure you , still .
Oh , how good little boy ought to be who have kind pussy mamma to cuddle them and tell them story ; and how afraid they ought to be of grow naughty , and bring tear into their mamma ' pretty eye !
CHAPTER VI `` Thou little child , yet glorious in the night Of heaven-born freedom on thy Being 's height , Why with such earnest pain dost thou provoke The Years to bring the inevitable yoke - Thus blindly with thy blessedness at strife ?
Full soon thy soul shall have her earthly freight , And custom lie upon thee with a weight Heavy a frost , and deep almost a life . ''
WORDSWORTH .
I come to the very sad part of all my story .
I know some people will only laugh at it , and call it much ado about nothing .
But I know one man who would not ; and he be an officer with a pair of gray moustache as long a your arm , who say once in company that two of the most heart-rending sight in the world , which move him most to tear , which he would do anything to prevent or remedy , be a child over a broken toy and a child steal sweet .
The company do not laugh at him ; his moustache be too long and too gray for that : but , after he be go , they call him sentimental and so forth , all but one dear little old Quaker lady with a soul as white a her cap , who be not , of course , generally partial to soldier ; and she say very quietly , like a Quaker : `` Friends , it be borne upon my mind that that be a truly brave man . ''
Now you may fancy that Tom be quite good , when he have everything that he could want or wish : but you would be very much mistaken .
Being quite comfortable be a very good thing ; but it do not make people good .
Indeed , it sometimes make them naughty , a it have make the people in America ; and a it make the people in the Bible , who wax fat and kick , like horse overfed and underworked .
And I be very sorry to say that this happen to little Tom .
For he grow so fond of the sea-bullseyes and sea-lollipops that his foolish little head could think of nothing else : and he be always long for more , and wonder when the strange lady would come again and give him some , and what she would give him , and how much , and whether she would give him more than the others .
And he think of nothing but lollipop by day , and dreamt of nothing else by night -- and what happen then ?
That he begin to watch the lady to see where she keep the sweet thing : and begin hide , and sneaking , and follow her about , and pretend to be look the other way , or go after something else , till he find out that she keep them in a beautiful mother-of-pearl cabinet away in a deep crack of the rock .
And he long to go to the cabinet , and yet he be afraid ; and then he long again , and be less afraid ; and at last , by continual thinking about it , he long so violently that he be not afraid at all .
And one night , when all the other child be asleep , and he could not sleep for thinking of lollipop , he creep away among the rock , and get to the cabinet , and behold !
it be open .
But , when he saw all the nice thing inside , instead of be delight , he be quite frighten , and wish he have never come there .
And then he would only touch them , and he do ; and then he would only taste one , and he do ; and then he would only eat one , and he do ; and then he would only eat two , and then three , and so on ; and then he be terrify l she should come and catch him , and begin gobble them down so fast that he do not taste them , or have any pleasure in them ; and then he felt sick , and would have only one more ; and then only one more again ; and so on till he have eat them all up .
And all the while , close behind him , stand Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid .
Some people may say , But why do she not keep her cupboard lock ?
Well , I know .
-- It may seem a very strange thing , but she never do keep her cupboard lock ; every one may go and taste for themselves , and fare accordingly .
It be very odd , but so it be ; and I be quite sure that she know best .
Perhaps she wish people to keep their finger out of the fire , by have them burn .
She take off her spectacle , because she do not like to see too much ; and in her pity she arch up her eyebrow into her very hair , and her eye grow so wide that they would have take in all the sorrow of the world , and fill with great big tear , a they too often do .
But all she say be : `` Ah , you poor little dear !
you be just like all the rest . ''
But she say it to herself , and Tom neither hear nor saw her .
Now , you must not fancy that she be sentimental at all .
If you do , and think that she be go to let off you , or me , or any human be when we do wrong , because she be too tender-hearted to punish u , then you will find yourself very much mistaken , a many a man do every year and every day .
But what do the strange fairy do when she saw all her lollipop eat ?
Did she fly at Tom , catch him by the scruff of the neck , hold him , howk him , hump him , hurry him , hit him , poke him , pull him , pinch him , pound him , put him in the corner , shake him , slap him , set him on a cold stone to reconsider himself , and so forth ?
Not a bit .
You may watch her at work if you know where to find her .
But you will never see her do that .
For , if she have , she know quite well Tom would have fight , and kick , and bit , and say bad word , and turn again that moment into a naughty little heathen chimney-sweep , with his hand , like Ishmael 's of old , against every man , and every man 's hand against him .
Did she question him , hurry him , frighten him , threaten him , to make him confess ?
Not a bit .
You may see her , a I say , at her work often enough if you know where to look for her : but you will never see her do that .
For , if she have , she would have tempt him to tell lie in his fright ; and that would have be bad for him , if possible , than even become a heathen chimney-sweep again .
No .
She leave that for anxious parent and teacher -LRB- lazy one , some call them -RRB- , who , instead of give child a fair trial , such a they would expect and demand for themselves , force them by fright to confess their own fault -- which be so cruel and unfair that no judge on the bench dare do it to the wicked thief or murderer , for the good British law forbids it -- ay , and even punish them to make them confess , which be so detestable a crime that it be never commit now , save by Inquisitors , and Kings of Naples , and a few other wretched people of whom the world be weary .
And then they say , `` We have train up the child in the way he should go , and when he grow up he have depart from it .
Why then do Solomon say that he would not depart from it ? ''
But perhaps the way of beating , and hurrying and frightening , and question , be not the way that the child should go ; for it be not even the way in which a colt should go if you want to break it in and make it a quiet serviceable horse .
Some folk may say , `` Ah !
but the Fairy do not need to do that if she know everything already . ''
True .
But , if she do not know , she would not surely behave bad than a British judge and jury ; and no more should parent and teacher either .
So she just say nothing at all about the matter , not even when Tom come next day with the rest for sweet thing .
He be horribly afraid of coming : but he be still more afraid of stay away , l any one should suspect him .
He be dreadfully afraid , too , l there should be no sweet -- a be to be expect , he have eat them all -- and l then the fairy should inquire who have take them .
But , behold !
she pull out just as many a ever , which astonish Tom , and frighten him still more .
And , when the fairy look him full in the face , he shake from head to foot : however she give him his share like the rest , and he think within himself that she could not have find him out .
But , when he put the sweet into his mouth , he hat the taste of them ; and they make him so sick that he have to get away as fast a he could ; and terribly sick he be , and very cross and unhappy , all the week after .
Then , when next week come , he have his share again ; and again the fairy look him full in the face ; but more sadly than she have ever look .
And he could not bear the sweet : but take them again in spite of himself .
And when Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby come , he want to be cuddle like the rest ; but she say very seriously : `` I should like to cuddle you ; but I can not , you be so horny and prickly . ''
And Tom look at himself : and he be all over prickle , just like a sea-egg .
Which be quite natural ; for you must know and believe that people 's soul make their body just a a snail make it shell -LRB- I be not joke , my little man ; I be in serious , solemn earnest -RRB- .
And therefore , when Tom 's soul grow all prickly with naughty temper , his body could not help grow prickly , too , so that nobody would cuddle him , or play with him , or even like to look at him .
What could Tom do now but go away and hide in a corner and cry ?
For nobody would play with him , and he know full well why .
And he be so miserable all that week that when the ugly fairy come and look at him once more full in the face , more seriously and sadly than ever , he could stand it no longer , and thrust the sweetmeat away , say , `` No , I do n't want any : I ca n't bear them now , '' and then burst out cry , poor little man , and tell Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid every word a it happen .
He be horribly frighten when he have do so ; for he expect her to punish him very severely .
But , instead , she only take him up and kiss him , which be not quite pleasant , for her chin be very bristly indeed ; but he be so lonely-hearted , he think that rough kissing be good than none .
`` I will forgive you , little man , '' she say .
`` I always forgive every one the moment they tell me the truth of their own accord . ''
`` Then you will take away all these nasty prickle ? ''
`` That be a very different matter .
You put them there yourself , and only you can take them away . ''
`` But how can I do that ? ''
ask Tom , cry afresh .
`` Well , I think it be time for you to go to school ; so I shall fetch you a schoolmistress , who will teach you how to get rid of your prickle . ''
And so she go away .
Tom be frighten at the notion of a school-mistress ; for he think she would certainly come with a birch-rod or a cane ; but he comfort himself , at last , that she might be something like the old woman in Vendale -- which she be not in the least ; for , when the fairy bring her , she be the most beautiful little girl that ever be see , with long curl float behind her like a golden cloud , and long rob float all round her like a silver one .
`` There he be , '' say the fairy ; `` and you must teach him to be good , whether you like or not . ''
`` I know , '' say the little girl ; but she do not seem quite to like , for she put her finger in her mouth , and look at Tom under her brow ; and Tom put his finger in his mouth , and look at her under his brow , for he be horribly ashamed of himself .
The little girl seem hardly to know how to begin ; and perhaps she would never have begin at all if poor Tom have not burst out cry , and beg her to teach him to be good and help him to cure his prickle ; and at that she grow so tender-hearted that she begin teach him as prettily a ever child be teach in the world .
And what do the little girl teach Tom ?
She teach him , first , what you have be teach ever since you say your first prayer at your mother 's knee ; but she teach him much more simply .
For the lesson in that world , my child , have no such hard word in them a the lesson in this , and therefore the water-babies like them good than you like your lesson , and long to learn them more and more ; and grow men can not puzzle nor quarrel over their meaning , a they do here on land ; for those lesson all rise clear and pure , like the Test out of Overton Pool , out of the everlasting ground of all life and truth .
So she teach Tom every day in the week ; only on Sundays she always go away home , and the kind fairy take her place .
And before she have teach Tom many Sundays , his prickle have vanish quite away , and his skin be smooth and clean again .
`` Dear me ! ''
say the little girl ; `` why , I know you now .
You be the very same little chimney-sweep who come into my bedroom . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
cry Tom .
`` And I know you , too , now .
You be the very little white lady whom I saw in bed . ''
And he jump at her , and long to hug and kiss her ; but do not , remember that she be a lady born ; so he only jump round and round her till he be quite tired .
And then they begin tell each other all their story -- how he have get into the water , and she have fall over the rock ; and how he have swim down to the sea , and how she have fly out of the window ; and how this , that , and the other , till it be all talk out : and then they both begin over again , and I ca n't say which of the two talk fast .
And then they set to work at their lesson again , and both like them so well that they go on well till seven full year be past and go .
You may fancy that Tom be quite content and happy all those seven year ; but the truth be , he be not .
He have always one thing on his mind , and that be -- where little Ellie go , when she go home on Sundays .
To a very beautiful place , she say .
But what be the beautiful place like , and where be it ?
Ah !
that be just what she could not say .
And it be strange , but true , that no one can say ; and that those who have be oftenest in it , or even near to it , can say least about it , and make people understand least what it be like .
There be a good many folk about the Other-end-of-Nowhere -LRB- where Tom go afterwards -RRB- , who pretend to know it from north to south as well a if they have be penny postman there ; but , a they be safe at the Other-end-of - Nowhere , nine hundred and ninety-nine million mile away , what they say can not concern u .
But the dear , sweet , loving , wise , good , self-sacrificing people , who really go there , can never tell you anything about it , save that it be the most beautiful place in all the world ; and , if you ask them more , they grow modest , and hold their peace , for fear of be laugh at ; and quite right they be .
So all that good little Ellie could say be , that it be worth all the rest of the world put together .
And of course that only make Tom the more anxious to go likewise .
`` Miss Ellie , '' he say at last , `` I will know why I can not go with you when you go home on Sundays , or I shall have no peace , and give you none either . ''
`` You must ask the fairy that . ''
So when the fairy , Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid , come next , Tom ask her .
`` Little boy who be only fit to play with sea-beasts can not go there , '' she say .
`` Those who go there must go first where they do not like , and do what they do not like , and help somebody they do not like . ''
`` Why , do Ellie do that ? ''
`` Ask her . ''
And Ellie blush , and say , `` Yes , Tom ; I do not like come here at first ; I be so much happy at home , where it be always Sunday .
And I be afraid of you , Tom , at first , because -- because -- '' `` Because I be all over prickle ?
But I be not prickly now , be I , Miss Ellie ? ''
`` No , '' say Ellie .
`` I like you very much now ; and I like come here , too . ''
`` And perhaps , '' say the fairy , `` you will learn to like go where you do n't like , and help some one that you do n't like , a Ellie have . ''
But Tom put his finger in his mouth , and hang his head down ; for he do not see that at all .
So when Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby come , Tom ask her ; for he think in his little head , She be not so strict a her sister , and perhaps she may let me off more easily .
Ah , Tom , Tom , silly fellow !
and yet I do n't know why I should blame you , while so many grown people have get the very same notion in their head .
But , when they try it , they get just the same answer a Tom do .
For , when he ask the second fairy , she tell him just what the first do , and in the very same word .
Tom be very unhappy at that .
And , when Ellie go home on Sunday , he fret and cry all day , and do not care to listen to the fairy 's story about good child , though they be pretty than ever .
Indeed , the more he overheard of them , the le he like to listen , because they be all about child who do what they do not like , and take trouble for other people , and work to fee their little brother and sister instead of care only for their play .
And , when she begin to tell a story about a holy child in old time , who be martyr by the heathen because it would not worship idol , Tom could bear no more , and run away and hide among the rock .
And , when Ellie come back , he be shy with her , because he fancy she look down on him , and think him a coward .
And then he grow quite cross with her , because she be superior to him , and do what he could not do .
And poor Ellie be quite surprised and sad ; and at last Tom burst out cry ; but he would not tell her what be really in his mind .
And all the while he be eat up with curiosity to know where Ellie go to ; so that he begin not to care for his playmate , or for the sea-palace or anything else .
But perhaps that make matter all the easy for him ; for he grow so discontented with everything round him that he do not care to stay , and do not care where he go .
`` Well , '' he say , at last , `` I be so miserable here , I 'll go ; if only you will go with me ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
say Ellie , `` I wish I might ; but the bad of it be , that the fairy say that you must go alone if you go at all .
Now do n't poke that poor crab about , Tom '' -LRB- for he be feel very naughty and mischievous -RRB- , `` or the fairy will have to punish you . ''
Tom be very nearly say , `` I do n't care if she do ; '' but he stop himself in time .
`` I know what she want me to do , '' he say , whine most dolefully .
`` She want me to go after that horrid old Grimes .
I do n't like him , that 's certain .
And if I find him , he will turn me into a chimney-sweep again , I know .
That 's what I have be afraid of all along . ''
`` No , he wo n't -- I know as much a that .
Nobody can turn water - baby into sweep , or hurt them at all , as long a they be good . ''
`` Ah , '' say naughty Tom , `` I see what you want ; you be persuade me all along to go , because you be tire of me , and want to get rid of me . ''
Little Ellie open her eye very wide at that , and they be all brimming over with tear .
`` Oh , Tom , Tom ! ''
she say , very mournfully -- and then she cry , `` Oh , Tom !
where be you ? ''
And Tom cry , `` Oh , Ellie , where be you ? ''
For neither of them could see each other -- not the least .
Little Ellie vanish quite away , and Tom hear her voice call him , and grow small and small , and fainter and fainter , till all be silent .
Who be frighten then but Tom ?
He swim up and down among the rock , into all the hall and chamber , faster than ever he swim before , but could not find her .
He shout after her , but she do not answer ; he ask all the other child , but they have not see her ; and at last he go up to the top of the water and begin cry and scream for Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid -- which perhaps be the best thing to do -- for she come in a moment .
`` Oh ! ''
say Tom .
`` Oh dear , oh dear !
I have be naughty to Ellie , and I have kill her -- I know I have kill her . ''
`` Not quite that , '' say the fairy ; `` but I have send her away home , and she will not come back again for I do not know how long . ''
And at that Tom cry so bitterly that the salt sea be swell with his tear , and the tide be .3,954,620,819 of an inch high than it have be the day before : but perhaps that be owe to the waxing of the moon .
It may have be so ; but it be consider right in the new philosophy , you know , to give spiritual cause for physical phenomenon -- especially in parlour-tables ; and , of course , physical cause for spiritual one , like thinking , and praying , and know right from wrong .
And so they odds it till it come even , a folk say down in Berkshire .
`` How cruel of you to send Ellie away ! ''
sobbed Tom .
`` However , I will find her again , if I go to the world 's end to look for her . ''
The fairy do not slap Tom , and tell him to hold his tongue : but she take him on her lap very kindly , just a her sister would have do ; and put him in mind how it be not her fault , because she be wind up inside , like watch , and could not help do thing whether she like or not .
And then she tell him how he have be in the nursery long enough , and must go out now and see the world , if he intend ever to be a man ; and how he must go all alone by himself , a every one else that ever be bear have to go , and see with his own eye , and smell with his own nose , and make his own bed and lie on it , and burn his own finger if he put them into the fire .
And then she tell him how many fine thing there be to be see in the world , and what an odd , curious , pleasant , orderly , respectable , well-managed , and , on the whole , successful -LRB- a , indeed , might have be expect -RRB- sort of a place it be , if people would only be tolerably brave and honest and good in it ; and then she tell him not to be afraid of anything he meet , for nothing would harm him if he remember all his lesson , and do what he know be right .
And at last she comfort poor little Tom so much that he be quite eager to go , and want to set out that minute .
`` Only , '' he say , `` if I might see Ellie once before I go ! ''
`` Why do you want that ? ''
`` Because -- because I should be so much happy if I think she have forgive me . ''
And in the twinkling of an eye there stand Ellie , smile , and look so happy that Tom long to kiss her ; but be still afraid it would not be respectful , because she be a lady born .
`` I be go , Ellie ! ''
say Tom .
`` I be go , if it be to the world 's end .
But I do n't like go at all , and that 's the truth . ''
`` Pooh !
pooh !
pooh ! ''
say the fairy .
`` You will like it very well indeed , you little rogue , and you know that at the bottom of your heart .
But if you do n't , I will make you like it .
Come here , and see what happen to people who do only what be pleasant . ''
And she take out of one of her cupboard -LRB- she have all sort of mysterious cupboard in the crack of the rock -RRB- the most wonderful waterproof book , full of such photograph a never be see .
For she have find out photography -LRB- and this be a fact -RRB- more than 13,598,000 year before anybody be bear ; and , what be more , her photograph do not merely represent light and shade , a ours do , but colour also , and all colour , a you may see if you look at a black-cock 's tail , or a butterfly 's wing , or indeed most thing that be or can be , so to speak .
And therefore her photograph be very curious and famous , and the child look with great delight for the opening of the book .
And on the title-page be write , `` The History of the great and famous nation of the Doasyoulikes , who come away from the country of Hardwork , because they want to play on the Jews ' harp all day long . ''
In the first picture they saw these Doasyoulikes living in the land of Readymade , at the foot of the Happy-go-lucky Mountains , where flapdoodle grow wild ; and if you want to know what that be , you must read Peter Simple .
They live very much such a life a those jolly old Greeks in Sicily , whom you may see paint on the ancient vas , and really there seem to be great excuse for them , for they have no need to work .
Instead of house they live in the beautiful cave of tufa , and bath in the warm spring three time a day ; and , a for clothes , it be so warm there that the gentleman walk about in little beside a cocked hat and a pair of strap , or some light summer tackle of that kind ; and the lady all gather gossamer in autumn -LRB- when they be not too lazy -RRB- to make their winter dress .
They be very fond of music , but it be too much trouble to learn the piano or the violin ; and a for dancing , that would have be too great an exertion .
So they sit on ant-hills all day long , and play on the Jews ' harp ; and , if the ant bite them , why they just get up and go to the next ant-hill , till they be bite there likewise .
And they sit under the flapdoodle-trees , and let the flapdoodle drop into their mouth ; and under the vine , and squeeze the grape-juice down their throat ; and , if any little pig run about ready roast , cry , `` Come and eat me , '' a be their fashion in that country , they wait till the pig run against their mouth , and then take a bite , and be content , just a so many oyster would have be .
They need no weapon , for no enemy ever come near their land ; and no tool , for everything be readymade to their hand ; and the stern old fairy Necessity never come near them to hunt them up , and make them use their wit , or die .
And so on , and so on , and so on , till there be never such comfortable , easy-going , happy-go-lucky people in the world .
`` Well , that be a jolly life , '' say Tom .
`` You think so ? ''
say the fairy .
`` Do you see that great peak mountain there behind , '' say the fairy , `` with smoke come out of it top ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And do you see all those ash , and slag , and cinder lie about ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then turn over the next five hundred year , and you will see what happen next . ''
And behold the mountain have blow up like a barrel of gunpowder , and then boil over like a kettle ; whereby one-third of the Doasyoulikes be blow into the air , and another third be smother in ash ; so that there be only one-third left .
`` You see , '' say the fairy , `` what come of live on a burning mountain . ''
`` Oh , why do you not warn them ? ''
say little Ellie .
`` I do warn them all that I could .
I let the smoke come out of the mountain ; and wherever there be smoke there be fire .
And I lay the ash and cinder all about ; and wherever there be cinder , cinder may be again .
But they do not like to face fact , my dear , a very few people do ; and so they invent a cock-and-bull story , which , I be sure , I never tell them , that the smoke be the breath of a giant , whom some god or other have bury under the mountain ; and that the cinder be what the dwarf roast the little pigs whole with ; and other nonsense of that kind .
And , when folk be in that humour , I can not teach them , save by the good old birch-rod . ''
And then she turn over the next five hundred year : and there be the remnant of the Doasyoulikes , do a they like , a before .
They be too lazy to move away from the mountain ; so they say , If it have blow up once , that be all the more reason that it should not blow up again .
And they be few in number : but they only say , The more the merrier , but the few the good fare .
However , that be not quite true ; for all the flapdoodle-trees be kill by the volcano , and they have eat all the roast pig , who , of course , could not be expect to have little one .
So they have to live very hard , on nut and root which they scratch out of the ground with stick .
Some of them talk of sow corn , a their ancestor use to do , before they come into the land of Readymade ; but they have forget how to make plough -LRB- they have forget even how to make Jews ' harp by this time -RRB- , and have eat all the seed-corn which they bring out of the land of Hardwork year since ; and of course it be too much trouble to go away and find more .
So they live miserably on root and nut , and all the weakly little child have great stomach , and then die .
`` Why , '' say Tom , `` they be grow no good than savage . ''
`` And look how ugly they be all get , '' say Ellie .
`` Yes ; when people live on poor vegetable instead of roast beef and plum-pudding , their jaw grow large , and their lip grow coarse , like the poor Paddies who eat potato . ''
And she turn over the next five hundred year .
And there they be all live up in tree , and make nest to keep off the rain .
And underneath the tree lion be prowl about .
`` Why , '' say Ellie , `` the lion seem to have eat a good many of them , for there be very few left now . ''
`` Yes , '' say the fairy ; `` you see it be only the strong and most active one who could climb the tree , and so escape . ''
`` But what great , hulk , broad-shouldered chap they be , '' say Tom ; `` they be a rough lot a ever I saw . ''
`` Yes , they be get very strong now ; for the lady will not marry any but the very strong and fierce gentleman , who can help them up the tree out of the lion ' way . ''
And she turn over the next five hundred year .
And in that they be few still , and strong , and fiercer ; but their foot have change shape very oddly , for they lay hold of the branch with their great toe , a if they have be thumbs , just a a Hindoo tailor use his toe to thread his needle .
The child be very much surprise , and ask the fairy whether that be her do .
`` Yes , and no , '' she say , smile .
`` It be only those who could use their foot as well a their hand who could get a good living : or , indeed , get marry ; so that they get the best of everything , and starve out all the rest ; and those who be leave keep up a regular breed of toe-thumb-men , a a breed of short-horns , or be skye - terrier , or fancy pigeon be keep up . ''
`` But there be a hairy one among them , '' say Ellie .
`` Ah ! ''
say the fairy , `` that will be a great man in his time , and chief of all the tribe . ''
And , when she turn over the next five hundred year , it be true .
For this hairy chief have have hairy child , and they hairier child still ; and every one wish to marry hairy husband , and have hairy child too ; for the climate be grow so damp that none but the hairy one could live : all the rest cough and sneeze , and have sore throat , and go into consumption , before they could grow up to be men and woman .
Then the fairy turn over the next five hundred year .
And they be few still .
`` Why , there be one on the ground pick up root , '' say Ellie , `` and he can not walk upright . ''
No more he could ; for in the same way that the shape of their foot have alter , the shape of their back have alter also .
`` Why , '' cry Tom , `` I declare they be all ape . ''
`` Something fearfully like it , poor foolish creature , '' say the fairy .
`` They be grow so stupid now , that they can hardly think : for none of them have use their wit for many hundred year .
They have almost forget , too , how to talk .
For each stupid child forget some of the word it hear from it stupid parent , and have not wit enough to make fresh word for itself .
Beside , they be grow so fierce and suspicious and brutal that they keep out of each other 's way , and mope and sulk in the dark forest , never hear each other 's voice , till they have forget almost what speech be like .
I be afraid they will all be ape very soon , and all by do only what they like . ''
And in the next five hundred year they be all dead and go , by bad food and wild beast and hunter ; all except one tremendous old fellow with jaw like a jack , who stand full seven foot high ; and M. Du Chaillu come up to him , and shoot him , a he stand roar and thump his breast .
And he remember that his ancestor have once be men , and try to say , `` Am I not a man and a brother ? ''
but have forget how to use his tongue ; and then he have try to call for a doctor , but he have forget the word for one .
So all he say be `` Ubboboo ! ''
and die .
And that be the end of the great and jolly nation of the Doasyoulikes .
And , when Tom and Ellie come to the end of the book , they look very sad and solemn ; and they have good reason so to do , for they really fancy that the men be ape , and never think , in their simplicity , of ask whether the creature have hippopotamus major in their brain or not ; in which case , a you have be tell already , they could not possibly have be ape , though they be more apish than the ape of all apery .
`` But could you not have save them from become ape ? ''
say little Ellie , at last .
`` At first , my dear ; if only they would have behave like men , and set to work to do what they do not like .
But the longer they wait , and behave like the dumb beast , who only do what they like , the stupider and clumsier they grow ; till at last they be past all cure , for they have throw their own wit away .
It be such thing a this that help to make me so ugly , that I know not when I shall grow fair . ''
`` And where be they all now ? ''
ask Ellie .
`` Exactly where they ought to be , my dear . ''
`` Yes ! ''
say the fairy , solemnly , half to herself , a she close the wonderful book .
`` Folks say now that I can make beast into men , by circumstance , and selection , and competition , and so forth .
Well , perhaps they be right ; and perhaps , again , they be wrong .
That be one of the seven thing which I be forbidden to tell , till the come of the Cocqcigrues ; and , at all event , it be no concern of theirs .
Whatever their ancestor be , men they be ; and I advise them to behave a such , and act accordingly .
But let them recollect this , that there be two side to every question , and a downhill as well a an uphill road ; and , if I can turn beast into men , I can , by the same law of circumstance , and selection , and competition , turn men into beast .
You be very near be turn into a beast once or twice , little Tom .
Indeed , if you have not make up your mind to go on this journey , and see the world , like an Englishman , I be not sure but that you would have end a an eft in a pond . ''
`` Oh , dear me ! ''
say Tom ; `` sooner than that , and be all over slime , I 'll go this minute , if it be to the world 's end . ''
CHAPTER VII `` And Nature , the old Nurse , take The child upon her knee , Saying , ` Here be a story book Thy father hath write for thee . ''
` Come wander with me , ' she say , ` Into region yet untrod , And read what be still unread In the Manuscripts of God . '
`` And he wander away and away With Nature , the dear old Nurse , Who sing to him night and day The rhyme of the universe . ''
LONGFELLOW .
`` Now , '' say Tom , `` I be ready be off , if it 's to the world 's end . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say the fairy , `` that be a brave , good boy .
But you must go far than the world 's end , if you want to find Mr. Grimes ; for he be at the Other-end-of-Nowhere .
You must go to Shiny Wall , and through the white gate that never be open ; and then you will come to Peacepool , and Mother Carey 's Haven , where the good whale go when they die .
And there Mother Carey will tell you the way to the Other-end-of-Nowhere , and there you will find Mr. Grimes . ''
`` Oh , dear ! ''
say Tom .
`` But I do not know my way to Shiny Wall , or where it be at all . ''
`` Little boys must take the trouble to find out thing for themselves , or they will never grow to be men ; so that you must ask all the beast in the sea and the bird in the air , and if you have be good to them , some of them will tell you the way to Shiny Wall . ''
`` Well , '' say Tom , `` it will be a long journey , so I have well start at once .
Good-bye , Miss Ellie ; you know I be get a big boy , and I must go out and see the world . ''
`` I know you must , '' say Ellie ; `` but you will not forget me , Tom .
I shall wait here till you come . ''
And she shake hand with him , and bid him good-bye .
Tom long very much again to kiss her ; but he think it would not be respectful , consider she be a lady born ; so he promise not to forget her : but his little whirl-about of a head be so full of the notion of go out to see the world , that it forget her in five minute : however , though his head forget her , I be glad to say his heart do not .
So he ask all the beast in the sea , and all the bird in the air , but none of them know the way to Shiny Wall .
For why ?
He be still too far down south .
Then he meet a ship , far large than he have ever see -- a gallant ocean-steamer , with a long cloud of smoke trail behind ; and he wonder how she go on without sail , and swim up to her to see .
A school of dolphin be run race round and round her , go three foot for her one , and Tom ask them the way to Shiny Wall : but they do not know .
Then he try to find out how she move , and at last he saw her screw , and be so delighted with it that he play under her quarter all day , till he nearly have his nose knock off by the fan , and think it time to move .
Then he watch the sailor upon deck , and the lady , with their bonnet and parasol : but none of them could see him , because their eye be not open , -- a , indeed , most people 's eye be not .
At last there come out into the quarter-gallery a very pretty lady , in deep black widow 's weed , and in her arm a baby .
She lean over the quarter-gallery , and look back and back toward England far away ; and a she look she sing : I . `` Soft soft wind , from out the sweet south sliding , Waft thy silver cloud-webs athwart the summer sea ; Thin thin thread of mist on dewy finger twin Weave a veil of dappled gauze to shade my babe and me .
II .
`` Deep deep Love , within thine own abyss abiding , Pour Thyself abroad , O Lord , on earth and air and sea ; Worn weary heart within Thy holy temple hiding , Shield from sorrow , sin , and shame my helpless babe and me . ''
Her voice be so soft and low , and the music of the air so sweet , that Tom could have listen to it all day .
But a she hold the baby over the gallery rail , to show it the dolphin leap and the water gurgling in the ship 's wake , lo !
and behold , the baby saw Tom .
He be quite sure of that for when their eye meet , the baby smile and hold out his hand ; and Tom smile and hold out his hand too ; and the baby kick and leap , a if it want to jump overboard to him .
`` What do you see , my darling ? ''
say the lady ; and her eye follow the baby 's till she too catch sight of Tom , swim about among the foam-beads below .
She give a little shriek and start ; and then she say , quite quietly , `` Babies in the sea ?
Well , perhaps it be the happy place for them ; '' and wave her hand to Tom , and cry , `` Wait a little , darling , only a little : and perhaps we shall go with you and be at rest . ''
And at that an old nurse , all in black , come out and talk to her , and draw her in .
And Tom turn away northward , sad and wondering ; and watch the great steamer slide away into the dusk , and the light on board peep out one by one , and die out again , and the long bar of smoke fade away into the evening mist , till all be out of sight .
And he swam northward again , day after day , till at last he meet the King of the Herrings , with a curry-comb grow out of his nose , and a sprat in his mouth for a cigar , and ask him the way to Shiny Wall ; so he bolt his sprat head foremost , and say : `` If I be you , young Gentleman , I should go to the Allalonestone , and ask the last of the Gairfowl .
She be of a very ancient clan , very nearly as ancient a my own ; and know a good deal which these modern upstart do n't , a lady of old house be likely to do . ''
Tom ask his way to her , and the King of the Herrings tell him very kindly , for he be a courteous old gentleman of the old school , though he be horribly ugly , and strangely bedizen too , like the old dandy who lounge in the club-house window .
But just a Tom have thank him and set off , he call after him : `` Hi !
I say , can you fly ? ''
`` I never try , '' say Tom .
`` Why ? ''
`` Because , if you can , I should advise you to say nothing to the old lady about it .
There ; take a hint .
Good-bye . ''
And away Tom go for seven day and seven night due north-west , till he come to a great codbank , the like of which he never saw before .
The great cod lay below in ten of thousand , and gobble shell-fish all day long ; and the blue shark rove above in hundred , and gobble them when they come up .
So they eat , and ate , and eat each other , a they have do since the making of the world ; for no man have come here yet to catch them , and find out how rich old Mother Carey be .
And there he saw the last of the Gairfowl , stand up on the Allalonestones all alone .
And a very grand old lady she be , full three foot high , and bolt upright , like some old Highland chieftainess .
She have on a black velvet gown , and a white pinner and apron , and a very high bridge to her nose -LRB- which be a sure mark of high breeding -RRB- , and a large pair of white spectacle on it , which make her look rather odd : but it be the ancient fashion of her house .
And instead of wing , she have two little feathery arm , with which she fan herself , and complain of the dreadful heat ; and she keep on croon an old song to herself , which she learn when she be a little baby-bird , long ago - `` Two little bird they sit on a stone , One swam away , and then there be one , With a fal-lal-la-lady .
`` The other swam after , and then there be none , And so the poor stone be leave all alone ; With a fal-lal-la-lady . ''
It be `` flew '' away , properly , and not `` swam '' away : but , a she could not fly , she have a right to alter it .
However , it be a very fit song for her to sing , because she be a lady herself .
Tom come up to her very humbly , and make his bow ; and the first thing she say be - `` Have you wing ?
Can you fly ? ''
`` Oh dear , no , ma'am ; I should not think of such thing , '' say cunning little Tom .
`` Then I shall have great pleasure in talk to you , my dear .
It be quite refreshing nowadays to see anything without wing .
They must all have wing , forsooth , now , every new upstart sort of bird , and fly .
What can they want with fly , and raise themselves above their proper station in life ?
In the day of my ancestor no bird ever think of have wing , and do very well without ; and now they all laugh at me because I keep to the good old fashion .
Why , the very marrocks and dovekie have get wing , the vulgar creature , and poor little one enough they be ; and my own cousin too , the razor-bills , who be gentlefolk bear , and ought to know good than to ape their inferior . ''
And so she be run on , while Tom try to get in a word edgeways ; and at last he do , when the old lady get out of breath , and begin fan herself again ; and then he ask if she know the way to Shiny Wall .
`` Shiny Wall ?
Who should know good than I ?
We all come from Shiny Wall , thousand of year ago , when it be decently cold , and the climate be fit for gentlefolk ; but now , what with the heat , and what with these vulgar-winged thing who fly up and down and eat everything , so that gentlepeople 's hunting be all spoilt , and one really can not get one 's living , or hardly venture off the rock for fear of be fly against by some creature that would not have dare to come within a mile of one a thousand year ago -- what be I say ?
Why , we have quite go down in the world , my dear , and have nothing leave but our honour .
And I be the last of my family .
A friend of mine and I come and settle on this rock when we be young , to be out of the way of low people .
Once we be a great nation , and spread over all the Northern Isles .
But men shoot u so , and knock u on the head , and take our egg -- why , if you will believe it , they say that on the coast of Labrador the sailor use to lay a plank from the rock on board the thing call their ship , and drive u along the plank by hundred , till we tumble down into the ship 's waist in heap ; and then , I suppose , they eat u , the nasty fellow !
Well -- but -- what be I say ?
At last , there be none of u leave , except on the old Gairfowlskerry , just off the Iceland coast , up which no man could climb .
Even there we have no peace ; for one day , when I be quite a young girl , the land rock , and the sea boil , and the sky grow dark , and all the air be fill with smoke and dust , and down tumble the old Gairfowlskerry into the sea .
The dovekie and marrocks , of course , all fly away ; but we be too proud to do that .
Some of u be dash to piece , and some drown ; and those who be leave get away to Eldey , and the dovekie tell me they be all dead now , and that another Gairfowlskerry have rise out of the sea close to the old one , but that it be such a poor flat place that it be not safe to live on : and so here I be left alone . ''
This be the Gairfowl 's story , and , strange a it may seem , it be every word of it true .
`` If you only have have wing ! ''
say Tom ; `` then you might all have fly away too . ''
`` Yes , young gentleman : and if people be not gentleman and lady , and forget that noblesse oblige , they will find it a easy to get on in the world a other people who do n't care what they do .
Why , if I have not recollect that noblesse oblige , I should not have be all alone now . ''
And the poor old lady sigh .
`` How be that , ma'am ? ''
`` Why , my dear , a gentleman come hither with me , and after we have be here some time , he want to marry -- in fact , he actually propose to me .
Well , I ca n't blame him ; I be young , and very handsome then , I do n't deny : but you see , I could not hear of such a thing , because he be my deceased sister 's husband , you see ? ''
`` Of course not , ma'am , '' say Tom ; though , of course , he know nothing about it .
`` She be very much diseased , I suppose ? ''
`` You do not understand me , my dear .
I mean , that be a lady , and with right and honourable feeling , a our house always have have , I felt it my duty to snub him , and howk him , and peck him continually , to keep him at his proper distance ; and , to tell the truth , I once peck him a little too hard , poor fellow , and he tumble backwards off the rock , and -- really , it be very unfortunate , but it be not my fault -- a shark come by saw him flapping , and snap him up .
And since then I have live all alone - ` With a fal-lal-la-lady . '
And soon I shall be go , my little dear , and nobody will miss me ; and then the poor stone will be leave all alone . ''
`` But , please , which be the way to Shiny Wall ? ''
say Tom .
`` Oh , you must go , my little dear -- you must go .
Let me see -- I be sure -- that be -- really , my poor old brain be get quite puzzle .
Do you know , my little dear , I be afraid , if you want to know , you must ask some of these vulgar bird about , for I have quite forget . ''
And the poor old Gairfowl begin to cry tear of pure oil ; and Tom be quite sorry for her ; and for himself too , for he be at his wit 's end whom to ask .
But by there come a flock of petrel , who be Mother Carey 's own chicken ; and Tom think them much pretty than Lady Gairfowl , and so perhaps they be ; for Mother Carey have have a great deal of fresh experience between the time that she invent the Gairfowl and the time that she invent them .
They flit along like a flock of black swallow , and hop and skip from wave to wave , lift up their little foot behind them so daintily , and whistle to each other so tenderly , that Tom fell in love with them at once , and call them to know the way to Shiny Wall .
`` Shiny Wall ?
Do you want Shiny Wall ?
Then come with u , and we will show you .
We be Mother Carey 's own chicken , and she send u out over all the sea , to show the good bird the way home . ''
Tom be delight , and swim off to them , after he have make his bow to the Gairfowl .
But she would not return his bow : but hold herself bolt upright , and wept tear of oil a she sing : `` And so the poor stone be leave all alone ; With a fal-lal-la-lady . ''
But she be wrong there ; for the stone be not leave all alone : and the next time that Tom go by it , he will see a sight worth see .
The old Gairfowl be go already : but there be good thing come in her place ; and when Tom come he will see the fishing-smacks anchor there in hundred , from Scotland , and from Ireland , and from the Orkneys , and the Shetlands , and from all the Northern port , full of the child of the old Norse Vikings , the master of the sea .
And the men will be haul in the great cod by thousand , till their hand be sore from the line ; and they will be make cod-liver oil and guano , and salt down the fish ; and there will be a man-of-war steamer there to protect them , and a lighthouse to show them the way ; and you and I , perhaps , shall go some day to the Allalonestone to the great summer sea-fair , and dredge strange creature such a man never saw before ; and we shall hear the sailor boast that it be not the bad jewel in Queen Victoria 's crown , for there be eighty mile of codbank , and food for all the poor folk in the land .
That be what Tom will see , and perhaps you and I shall see it too .
And then we shall not be sorry because we can not get a Gairfowl to stuff , much less find gairfowl enough to drive them into stone pen and slaughter them , a the old Norsemen do , or drive them on board along a plank till the ship be victual with them , a the old English and French rover use to do , of whom dear old Hakluyt tell : but we shall remember what Mr. Tennyson say : how `` The old order changeth , give place to the new , And God fulfil himself in many way . ''
And now Tom be all agog to start for Shiny Wall ; but the petrel say no .
They must go first to Allfowlsness , and wait there for the great gathering of all the sea-birds , before they start for their summer breeding-places far away in the Northern Isles ; and there they would be sure to find some bird which be go to Shiny Wall : but where Allfowlsness be , he must promise never to tell , l men should go there and shoot the bird , and stuff them , and put them into stupid museum , instead of leave them to play and breed and work in Mother Carey 's water-garden , where they ought to be .
So where Allfowlsness be nobody must know ; and all that be to be say about it be , that Tom wait there many day ; and a he wait , he saw a very curious sight .
On the rabbit burrow on the shore there gather hundred and hundred of hoodie-crows , such a you see in Cambridgeshire .
And they make such a noise , that Tom come on shore and go up to see what be the matter .
And there he find them hold their great caucus , which they hold every year in the North ; and all their stump-orators be speechify ; and for a tribune , the speaker stand on an old sheep 's skull .
And they caw and caw , and boast of all the clever thing they have do ; how many lamb ' eye they have pick out , and how many dead bullock they have eat , and how many young grouse they have swallow whole , and how many grouse-eggs they have fly away with , stick on the point of their bill , which be the hoodie-crow 's particularly clever feat , of which he be as proud a a gipsy be of do the hokany-baro ; and what that be , I wo n't tell you .
And at last they bring out the prettiest , neat young lady-crow that ever be see , and set her in the middle , and all begin abuse and vilifying , and rating , and bullyrag at her , because she have steal no grouse-eggs , and have actually dare to say that she would not steal any .
So she be to be try publicly by their law -LRB- for the hoodies always try some offender in their great yearly parliament -RRB- .
And there she stand in the middle , in her black gown and gray hood , look a meek and as neat a a Quakeress , and they all bawl at her at once - And it be in vain that she plead - That she do not like grouse-eggs ; That she could get her living very well without them ; That she be afraid to eat them , for fear of the gamekeeper ; That she have not the heart to eat them , because the grouse be such pretty , kind , jolly bird ; And a dozen reason more .
For all the other scaul-crows set upon her , and peck her to death there and then , before Tom could come to help her ; and then fly away , very proud of what they have do .
Now , be not this a scandalous transaction ?
But they be true republican , these hoodies , who do every one just what he like , and make other people do so too ; so that , for any freedom of speech , think , or action , which be allow among them , they might as well be American citizen of the new school .
But the fairy take the good crow , and give her nine new set of feather run , and turn her at last into the most beautiful bird of paradise with a green velvet suit and a long tail , and send her to eat fruit in the Spice Islands , where clove and nutmegs grow .
And Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid settle her account with the wicked hoodies .
For , a they fly away , what should they find but a nasty dead dog ?
-- on which they all set to work , peek and gobble and caw and quarrel to their heart ' content .
But the moment afterwards , they all throw up their bill into the air , and give one screech ; and then turn head over heel backward , and fell down dead , one hundred and twenty-three of them at once .
For why ?
The fairy have tell the gamekeeper in a dream , to fill the dead dog full of strychnine ; and so he do .
And after a while the bird begin to gather at Allfowlsness , in thousand and ten of thousand , blacken all the air ; swan and brant goose , harlequin and eider , harolds and garganey , smew and goosander , diver and loon , grebe and dovekie , auk and razor-bills , gannet and petrel , skua and tern , with gull beyond all naming or numbering ; and they paddle and wash and splash and comb and brush themselves on the sand , till the shore be white with feather ; and they quack and cluck and gabble and chatter and scream and whoop a they talk over matter with their friend , and settle where they be to go and breed that summer , till you might have hear them ten mile off ; and lucky it be for them that there be no one to hear them but the old keeper , who live all alone upon the Ness , in a turf hut thatch with heather and fringe round with great stone sling across the roof by bent-ropes , lest the winter gale should blow the hut right away .
But he never mind the bird nor hurt them , because they be not in season ; indeed , he mind but two thing in the whole world , and those be , his Bible and his grouse ; for he be as good an old Scotchman a ever knit stocking on a winter 's night : only , when all the bird be go , he toddle out , and take off his cap to them , and wish them a merry journey and a safe return ; and then gather up all the feather which they have leave , and clean them to sell down south , and make feather - bed for stuffy people to lie on .
Then the petrel ask this bird and that whether they would take Tom to Shiny Wall : but one set be go to Sutherland , and one to the Shetlands , and one to Norway , and one to Spitzbergen , and one to Iceland , and one to Greenland : but none would go to Shiny Wall .
So the good-natured petrel say that they would show him part of the way themselves , but they be only go as far a Jan Mayen 's Land ; and after that he must shift for himself .
And then all the bird rise up , and stream away in long black line , north , and north-east , and north-west , across the bright blue summer sky ; and their cry be like ten thousand pack of hound , and ten thousand peal of bell .
Only the puffin stay behind , and kill the young rabbit , and lay their egg in the rabbit-burrows ; which be rough practice , certainly ; but a man must see to his own family .
And , a Tom and the petrel go north-eastward , it begin to blow right hard ; for the old gentleman in the gray great-coat , who look after the big copper boiler , in the gulf of Mexico , have get behindhand with his work ; so Mother Carey have send an electric message to him for more steam ; and now the steam be come , a much in an hour a ought to have come in a week , puffing and roaring and swishing and swirling , till you could not see where the sky end and the sea begin .
But Tom and the petrel never care , for the gale be right abaft , and away they go over the crest of the billow , as merry a so many flying-fish .
And at last they saw an ugly sight -- the black side of a great ship , waterlogged in the trough of the sea .
Her funnel and her mast be overboard , and sway and surge under her lee ; her deck be sweep as clean a a barn floor , and there be no living soul on board .
The petrel fly up to her , and wail round her ; for they be very sorry indeed , and also they expect to find some salt pork ; and Tom scramble on board of her and look round , frighten and sad .
And there , in a little cot , lash tight under the bulwark , lay a baby fast asleep ; the very same baby , Tom saw at once , which he have see in the singing lady 's arm .
He go up to it , and want to wake it ; but behold , from under the cot out jump a little black and tan terrier dog , and begin bark and snap at Tom , and would not let him touch the cot .
Tom know the dog 's teeth could not hurt him : but at least it could shove him away , and do ; and he and the dog fought and struggle , for he want to help the baby , and do not want to throw the poor dog overboard : but a they be struggle there come a tall green sea , and walk in over the weather side of the ship , and sweep them all into the wave .
`` Oh , the baby , the baby ! ''
scream Tom : but the next moment he do not scream at all ; for he saw the cot settle down through the green water , with the baby , smile in it , fast asleep ; and he saw the fairy come up from below , and carry baby and cradle gently down in their soft arm ; and then he know it be all right , and that there would be a new water-baby in St. Brandan 's Isle .
And the poor little dog ?
Why , after he have kick and cough a little , he sneeze so hard , that he sneeze himself clean out of his skin , and turn into a water-dog , and jump and dance round Tom , and run over the crest of the wave , and snap at the jelly-fish and the mackerel , and follow Tom the whole way to the Other-end-of-Nowhere .
Then they go on again , till they begin to see the peak of Jan Mayen 's Land , standing-up like a white sugar-loaf , two mile above the cloud .
And there they fell in with a whole flock of molly-mocks , who be feed on a dead whale .
`` These be the fellow to show you the way , '' say Mother Carey 's chicken ; `` we can not help you farther north .
We do n't like to get among the ice pack , for fear it should nip our toe : but the molly dare fly anywhere . ''
So the petrel call to the molly : but they be so busy and greedy , gobble and peek and splutter and fight over the blubber , that they do not take the least notice .
`` Come , come , '' say the petrel , `` you lazy greedy lubber , this young gentleman be go to Mother Carey , and if you do n't attend on him , you wo n't earn your discharge from her , you know . ''
`` Greedy we be , '' say a great fat old molly , `` but lazy we ai n't ; and , a for lubber , we 're no more lubber than you .
Let 's have a look at the lad . ''
And he flap right into Tom 's face , and star at him in the most impudent way -LRB- for the molly be audacious fellow , a all whaler know -RRB- , and then ask him where he hail from , and what land he sight last .
And , when Tom tell him , he seem pleased , and say he be a good plucked one to have get so far .
`` Come along , lad , '' he say to the rest , `` and give this little chap a cast over the pack , for Mother Carey 's sake .
We 've eat blubber enough for to-day , and we 'll e ` en work out a bit of our time by help the lad . ''
So the molly take Tom up on their back , and fly off with him , laugh and joking -- and oh , how they do smell of train oil !
`` Who be you , you jolly bird ? ''
ask Tom .
`` We be the spirit of the old Greenland skipper -LRB- a every sailor know -RRB- , who hunt here , right whale and horse-whales , full hundred of year agone .
But , because we be saucy and greedy , we be all turn into molly , to eat whale 's blubber all our day .
But lubber we be none , and could sail a ship now against any man in the North sea , though we do n't hold with this new-fangled steam .
And it 's a shame of those black imp of petrel to call u so ; but because they 're her grace 's pet , they think they may say anything they like . ''
`` And who be you ? ''
ask Tom of him , for he saw that he be the king of all the bird .
`` My name be Hendrick Hudson , and a right good skipper be I ; and my name will last to the world 's end , in spite of all the wrong I do .
For I discover Hudson River , and I name Hudson 's Bay ; and many have come in my wake that dare not have show me the way .
But I be a hard man in my time , that 's truth , and steal the poor Indians off the coast of Maine , and sell them for slave down in Virginia ; and at last I be so cruel to my sailor , here in these very seas , that they set me adrift in an open boat , and I never be hear of more .
So now I 'm the king of all molly , till I 've work out my time . ''
And now they come to the edge of the pack , and beyond it they could see Shiny Wall looming , through mist , and snow , and storm .
But the pack roll horribly upon the swell , and the ice giant fight and roar , and leapt upon each other 's back , and ground each other to powder , so that Tom be afraid to venture among them , lest he should be ground to powder too .
And he be the more afraid , when he saw lie among the ice pack the wreck of many a gallant ship ; some with mast and yard all standing , some with the seaman freeze fast on board .
Alas , ala , for them !
They be all true English heart ; and they come to their end like good knights-errant , in search for the white gate that never be open yet .
But the good molly take Tom and his dog up , and fly with them safe over the pack and the roaring ice giant , and set them down at the foot of Shiny Wall .
`` And where be the gate ? ''
ask Tom .
`` There be no gate , '' say the molly .
`` No gate ? ''
cried Tom , aghast .
`` None ; never a crack of one , and that 's the whole of the secret , a good fellow , lad , than you have find to their cost ; and if there have be , they 'd have kill by now every right whale that swim the sea . ''
`` What be I to do , then ? ''
`` Dive under the floe , to be sure , if you have pluck . ''
`` I 've not come so far to turn now , '' say Tom ; `` so here go for a header . ''
`` A lucky voyage to you , lad , '' say the molly ; `` we know you be one of the right sort .
So good-bye . ''
`` Why do n't you come too ? ''
ask Tom .
But the molly only wail sadly , `` We ca n't go yet , we ca n't go yet , '' and fly away over the pack .
So Tom dive under the great white gate which never be open yet , and go on in black darkness , at the bottom of the sea , for seven day and seven night .
And yet he be not a bit frightened .
Why should he be ?
He be a brave English lad , whose business be to go out and see all the world .
And at last he saw the light , and clear clear water overhead ; and up he come a thousand fathom , among cloud of sea-moths , which flutter round his head .
There be moth with pink head and wing and opal body , that flap about slowly ; moth with brown wing that flap about quickly ; yellow shrimp that hop and skip most quickly of all ; and jelly of all the colour in the world , that neither hop nor skip , but only dawdle and yawn , and would not get out of his way .
The dog snap at them till his jaw be tire ; but Tom hardly mind them at all , he be so eager to get to the top of the water , and see the pool where the good whale go .
And a very large pool it be , mile and mile across , though the air be so clear that the ice cliff on the opposite side look a if they be close at hand .
All round it the ice cliff rise , in wall and spire and battlement , and cave and bridge , and story and gallery , in which the ice-fairies live , and drive away the storm and cloud , that Mother Carey 's pool may lie calm from year 's end to year 's end .
And the sun act policeman , and walk round outside every day , peep just over the top of the ice wall , to see that all go right ; and now and then he play conjure trick , or have an exhibition of firework , to amuse the ice-fairies .
For he would make himself into four or five sun at once , or paint the sky with ring and cross and crescent of white fire , and stick himself in the middle of them , and wink at the fairy ; and I daresay they be very much amuse ; for anything 's fun in the country .
And there the good whale lay , the happy sleepy beast , upon the still oily sea .
They be all right whale , you must know , and finners , and razor-backs , and bottle-noses , and spot sea - unicorn with long ivory horn .
But the sperm whale be such raging , ramp , roar , rumbustious fellow , that , if Mother Carey let them in , there would be no more peace in Peacepool .
So she pack them away in a great pond by themselves at the South Pole , two hundred and sixty-three mile south-south-east of Mount Erebus , the great volcano in the ice ; and there they butt each other with their ugly nose , day and night from year 's end to year 's end .
But here there be only good quiet beast , lie about like the black hull of sloop , and blow every now and then jet of white steam , or scull round with their huge mouth open , for the sea - moth to swim down their throat .
There be no thresher there to thresh their poor old back , or sword-fish to stab their stomach , or saw-fish to rip them up , or ice-sharks to bite lump out of their side , or whaler to harpoon and lance them .
They be quite safe and happy there ; and all they have to do be to wait quietly in Peacepool , till Mother Carey send for them to make them out of old beast into new .
Tom swim up to the near whale , and ask the way to Mother Carey .
`` There she sit in the middle , '' say the whale .
Tom look ; but he could see nothing in the middle of the pool , but one peak iceberg : and he say so .
`` That 's Mother Carey , '' say the whale , `` a you will find when you get to her .
There she sit make old beast into new all the year round . ''
`` How do she do that ? ''
`` That 's her concern , not mine , '' say the old whale ; and yawn so wide -LRB- for he be very large -RRB- that there swim into his mouth 943 sea-moths , 13,846 jelly-fish no big than pin ' head , a string of salpae nine yard long , and forty-three little ice-crabs , who give each other a parting pinch all round , tuck their leg under their stomach , and determine to die decently , like Julius Caesar .
`` I suppose , '' say Tom , `` she cut up a great whale like you into a whole shoal of porpoise ? ''
At which the old whale laugh so violently that he cough up all the creature ; who swim away again very thankful at have escape out of that terrible whalebone net of his , from which bourne no traveller return ; and Tom go on to the iceberg , wonder .
And , when he come near it , it take the form of the grand old lady he have ever see -- a white marble lady , sit on a white marble throne .
And from the foot of the throne there swim away , out and out into the sea , million of new-born creature , of more shape and colour than man ever dream .
And they be Mother Carey 's child , whom she make out of the sea-water all day long .
He expect , of course -- like some grown people who ought to know well -- to find her snip , piece , fitting , stitch , cobble , basting , filing , planing , hammering , turn , polish , mould , measure , chisel , clip , and so forth , a men do when they go to work to make anything .
But , instead of that , she sit quite still with her chin upon her hand , look down into the sea with two great grand blue eye , as blue a the sea itself .
Her hair be as white a the snow -- for she be very very old -- in fact , as old a anything which you be likely to come across , except the difference between right and wrong .
And , when she saw Tom , she look at him very kindly .
`` What do you want , my little man ?
It be long since I have see a water-baby here . ''
Tom tell her his errand , and ask the way to the Other-end-of - Nowhere .
`` You ought to know yourself , for you have be there already . ''
`` Have I , ma'am ?
I 'm sure I forget all about it . ''
`` Then look at me . ''
And , a Tom look into her great blue eye , he recollect the way perfectly .
Now , be not that strange ?
`` Thank you , ma'am , '' say Tom .
`` Then I wo n't trouble your ladyship any more ; I hear you be very busy . ''
`` I be never more busy than I be now , '' she say , without stir a finger .
`` I hear , ma'am , that you be always make new beast out of old . ''
`` So people fancy .
But I be not go to trouble myself to make thing , my little dear .
I sit here and make them make themselves . ''
`` You be a clever fairy , indeed , '' think Tom .
And he be quite right .
That be a grand trick of good old Mother Carey 's , and a grand answer , which she have have occasion to make several time to impertinent people .
There be once , for instance , a fairy who be so clever that she find out how to make butterfly .
I do n't mean sham one ; no : but real live one , which would fly , and eat , and lay egg , and do everything that they ought ; and she be so proud of her skill that she go fly straight off to the North Pole , to boast to Mother Carey how she could make butterfly .
But Mother Carey laugh .
`` Know , silly child , '' she say , `` that any one can make thing , if they will take time and trouble enough : but it be not every one who , like me , can make thing make themselves . ''
But people do not yet believe that Mother Carey be as clever a all that come to ; and they will not till they , too , go the journey to the Other-end-of-Nowhere .
`` And now , my pretty little man , '' say Mother Carey , `` you be sure you know the way to the Other-end-of-Nowhere ? ''
Tom think ; and behold , he have forget it utterly .
`` That be because you take your eye off me . ''
Tom look at her again , and recollect ; and then look away , and forget in an instant .
`` But what be I to do , ma'am ?
For I ca n't keep look at you when I be somewhere else . ''
`` You must do without me , a most people have to do , for nine hundred and ninety-nine thousandth of their life ; and look at the dog instead ; for he know the way well enough , and will not forget it .
Besides , you may meet some very queer-tempered people there , who will not let you pass without this passport of mine , which you must hang round your neck and take care of ; and , of course , a the dog will always go behind you , you must go the whole way backward . ''
`` Backward ! ''
cry Tom .
`` Then I shall not be able to see my way . ''
`` On the contrary , if you look forward , you will not see a step before you , and be certain to go wrong ; but , if you look behind you , and watch carefully whatever you have pass , and especially keep your eye on the dog , who go by instinct , and therefore ca n't go wrong , then you will know what be come next , as plainly a if you saw it in a looking-glass . ''
Tom be very much astonish : but he obey her , for he have learn always to believe what the fairy tell him .
`` So it be , my dear child , '' say Mother Carey ; `` and I will tell you a story , which will show you that I be perfectly right , a it be my custom to be .
`` Once on a time , there be two brother .
One be call Prometheus , because he always look before him , and boast that he be wise beforehand .
The other be call Epimetheus , because he always look behind him , and do not boast at all ; but say humbly , like the Irishman , that he have sooner prophesy after the event .
`` Well , Prometheus be a very clever fellow , of course , and invent all sort of wonderful thing .
But , unfortunately , when they be set to work , to work be just what they would not do : wherefore very little have come of them , and very little be leave of them ; and now nobody know what they be , save a few archaeological old gentleman who scratch in queer corner , and find little there save Ptinum Furem , Blaptem Mortisagam , Acarum Horridum , and Tineam Laciniarum .
`` But Epimetheus be a very slow fellow , certainly , and go among men for a clod , and a muff , and a milksop , and a slowcoach , and a bloke , and a boodle , and so forth .
And very little he do , for many year : but what he do , he never have to do over again .
`` And what happen at last ?
There come to the two brother the most beautiful creature that ever be see , Pandora by name ; which mean , All the gift of the Gods .
But because she have a strange box in her hand , this fanciful , forecasting , suspicious , prudential , theoretical , deductive , prophesy Prometheus , who be always settle what be go to happen , would have nothing to do with pretty Pandora and her box .
`` But Epimetheus take her and it , a he take everything that come ; and marry her for good for bad , a every man ought , whenever he have even the chance of a good wife .
And they open the box between them , of course , to see what be inside : for , else , of what possible use could it have be to them ?
`` And out flew all the ill which flesh be heir to ; all the child of the four great bogy , Self-will , Ignorance , Fear , and Dirt -- for instance : Measles , Famines , Monks , Quacks , Scarlatina , Unpaid bill , Idols , Tight stay , Hooping-coughs , Potatoes , Popes , Bad Wine , Wars , Despots , Peacemongers , Demagogues , And , bad of all , Naughty Boys and Girls .
But one thing remain at the bottom of the box , and that be , Hope .
`` So Epimetheus get a great deal of trouble , a most men do in this world : but he get the three best thing in the world into the bargain -- a good wife , and experience , and hope : while Prometheus have just as much trouble , and a great deal more -LRB- a you will hear -RRB- , of his own making ; with nothing beside , save fancy spin out of his own brain , a a spider spin her web out of her stomach .
`` And Prometheus keep on look before him so far ahead , that a he be run about with a box of lucifer -LRB- which be the only useful thing he ever invent , and do as much harm a good -RRB- , he tread on his own nose , and tumble down -LRB- a most deductive philosopher do -RRB- , whereby he set the Thames on fire ; and they have hardly put it out again yet .
So he have to be chain to the top of a mountain , with a vulture by him to give him a peck whenever he stir , lest he should turn the whole world upside down with his prophecy and his theory .
`` But stupid old Epimetheus go work and grub on , with the help of his wife Pandora , always look behind him to see what have happen , till he really learn to know now and then what would happen next ; and understand so well which side his bread be butter , and which way the cat jump , that he begin to make thing which would work , and go on working , too ; to till and drain the ground , and to make loom , and ship , and railroad , and steam plough , and electric telegraph , and all the thing which you see in the Great Exhibition ; and to foretell famine , and bad weather , and the price of stock and -LRB- what be hard of all -RRB- the next vagary of the great idol Whirligig , which some call Public Opinion ; till at last he grow as rich a a Jew , and as fat a a farmer , and people think twice before they meddle with him , but only once before they ask him to help them ; for , because he earn his money well , he could afford to spend it well likewise .
`` And his child be the men of science , who get good lasting work do in the world ; but the child of Prometheus be the fanatic , and the theorist , and the bigot , and the bore , and the noisy windy people , who go tell silly folk what will happen , instead of look to see what have happen already . ''
Now , be not Mother Carey 's a wonderful story ?
And , I be happy to say , Tom believe it every word .
For so it happen to Tom likewise .
He be very sorely try ; for though , by keep the dog to heel -LRB- or rather to toe , for he have to walk backward -RRB- , he could see pretty well which way the dog be hunt , yet it be much slow work to go backwards than to go forward .
But , what be more try still , no sooner have he get out of Peacepool , than there come run to him all the conjuror , fortune-tellers , astrologer , prophesier , projector , prestigiators , as many a be in those part -LRB- and there be too many of them everywhere -RRB- , Old Mother Shipton on her broomstick , with Merlin , Thomas the Rhymer , Gerbertus , Rabanus Maurus , Nostradamus , Zadkiel , Raphael , Moore , Old Nixon , and a good many in black coat and white tie who might have know well , consider in what century they be bear , all bawling and scream at him , `` Look a-head , only look a-head ; and we will show you what man never saw before , and right away to the end of the world ! ''
But I be proud to say that , though Tom have not be to Cambridge -- for , if he have , he would have certainly be senior wrangler -- he be such a little dogged , hard , gnarly , foursquare brick of an English boy , that he never turn his head round once all the way from Peacepool to the Other-end-of-Nowhere : but keep his eye on the dog , and let him pick out the scent , hot or cold , straight or crook , wet or dry , up hill or down dale ; by which mean he never make a single mistake , and saw all the wonderful and hitherto by - no-mortal-man-imagined thing , which it be my duty to relate to you in the next chapter .
CHAPTER VIII AND LAST `` Come to me , O ye child !
For I hear you at your play ; And the question that perplex me Have vanish quite away .
`` Ye open the Eastern window , That look towards the sun , Where thought be sing swallow , And the brook of morning run .
* * * * * `` For what be all our contrivings And the wisdom of our book , When compare with your caress , And the gladness of your look ?
`` Ye be good than all the ballad That ever be sung or say ; For ye be live poem , And all the rest be dead . ''
LONGFELLOW .
Here begin the never-to-be-too-much-studied account of the nine - hundred-and-ninety-ninth part of the wonderful thing which Tom saw on his journey to the Other-end-of-Nowhere ; which all good little child be request to read ; that , if ever they get to the Other-end-of-Nowhere , a they may very probably do , they may not burst out laughing , or try to run away , or do any other silly vulgar thing which may offend Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid .
Now , as soon a Tom have leave Peacepool , he come to the white lap of the great sea-mother , ten thousand fathom deep ; where she make world-pap all day long , for the steam-giants to knead , and the fire-giants to bake , till it have rise and harden into mountain - loaf and island-cakes .
And there Tom be very near be knead up in the world-pap , and turn into a fossil water-baby ; which would have astonish the Geological Society of New Zealand some hundred of thousand of year hence .
For , a he walk along in the silence of the sea-twilight , on the soft white ocean floor , he be aware of a hissing , and a roaring , and a thumping , and a pumping , a of all the steam-engines in the world at once .
And , when he come near , the water grow boiling-hot ; not that that hurt him in the least : but it also grow as foul a gruel ; and every moment he stumble over dead shell , and fish , and shark , and seal , and whale , which have be kill by the hot water .
And at last he come to the great sea-serpent himself , lie dead at the bottom ; and a he be too thick to scramble over , Tom have to walk round him three-quarters of a mile and more , which put him out of his path sadly ; and , when he have get round , he come to the place call Stop .
And there he stop , and just in time .
For he be on the edge of a vast hole in the bottom of the sea , up which be rush and roar clear steam enough to work all the engine in the world at once ; so clear , indeed , that it be quite light at moment ; and Tom could see almost up to the top of the water above , and down below into the pit for nobody know how far .
But , as soon a he bend his head over the edge , he get such a rap on the nose from pebble , that he jump back again ; for the steam , a it rush up , rasp away the side of the hole , and hurl it up into the sea in a shower of mud and gravel and ash ; and then it spread all around , and sank again , and cover in the dead fish so fast , that before Tom have stand there five minute he be bury in silt up to his ankle , and begin to be afraid that he should have be bury alive .
And perhaps he would have be , but that while he be think , the whole piece of ground on which he stand be tear off and blown upwards , and away fly Tom a mile up through the sea , wonder what be come next .
At last he stop -- thump !
and find himself tight in the leg of the most wonderful bogy which he have ever see .
It have I do n't know how many wing , as big a the sail of a windmill , and spread out in a ring like them ; and with them it hover over the steam which rush up , a a ball hovers over the top of a fountain .
And for every wing above it have a leg below , with a claw like a comb at the tip , and a nostril at the root ; and in the middle it have no stomach and one eye ; and a for it mouth , that be all on one side , a the madreporiform tubercle in a star - fish be .
Well , it be a very strange beast ; but no stranger than some dozen which you may see .
`` What do you want here , '' it cry quite peevishly , `` get in my way ? ''
and it try to drop Tom : but he hold on tight to it claw , think himself safer where he be .
So Tom tell him who he be , and what his errand be .
And the thing wink it one eye , and sneer : `` I be too old to be take in in that way .
You be come after gold - - I know you be . ''
`` Gold !
What be gold ? ''
And really Tom do not know ; but the suspicious old bogy would not believe him .
But after a while Tom begin to understand a little .
For , a the vapour come up out of the hole , the bogy smelt them with his nostril , and comb them and sort them with his comb ; and then , when they steam up through them against his wing , they be change into shower and stream of metal .
From one wing fell gold-dust , and from another silver , and from another copper , and from another tin , and from another lead , and so on , and sink into the soft mud , into vein and crack , and harden there .
Whereby it come to pass that the rock be full of metal .
But , all of a sudden , somebody shut off the steam below , and the hole be leave empty in an instant : and then down rush the water into the hole , in such a whirlpool that the bogy spun round and round as fast a a teetotum .
But that be all in his day 's work , like a fair fall with the hound ; so all he do be to say to Tom - `` Now be your time , youngster , to get down , if you be in earnest , which I do n't believe . ''
`` You 'll soon see , '' say Tom ; and away he go , as bold a Baron Munchausen , and shoot down the rush cataract like a salmon at Ballisodare .
And , when he get to the bottom , he swim till he be wash on shore safe upon the Other-end-of-Nowhere ; and he find it , to his surprise , a most other people do , much more like This-End-of - Somewhere than he have be in the habit of expect And first he go through Waste-paper-land , where all the stupid book lie in heap , up hill and down dale , like leaf in a winter wood ; and there he saw people dig and grub among them , to make bad book out of bad one , and thrash chaff to save the dust of it ; and a very good trade they drive thereby , especially among child .
Then he go by the sea of slop , to the mountain of mess , and the territory of tuck , where the ground be very sticky , for it be all make of bad toffee -LRB- not Everton toffee , of course -RRB- , and full of deep crack and hole choke with wind-fallen fruit , and green goose-berries , and sloe , and crab , and whinberry , and hip and haw , and all the nasty thing which little child will eat , if they can get them .
But the fairy hide them out of the way in that country as fast a they can , and very hard work they have , and of very little use it be .
For as fast a they hide away the old trash , foolish and wicked people make fresh trash full of lime and poisonous paint , and actually go and steal receipt out of old Madame Science 's big book to invent poison for little child , and sell them at wake and fair and tuck-shops .
Very well .
Let them go on .
Dr. Letheby and Dr. Hassall can not catch them , though they be set trap for them all day long .
But the Fairy with the birch-rod will catch them all in time , and make them begin at one corner of their shop , and eat their way out at the other : by which time they will have got such stomach-aches a will cure them of poison little child .
Next he saw all the little people in the world , write all the little book in the world , about all the other little people in the world ; probably because they have no great people to write about : and if the name of the book be not Squeeky , nor the Pump - lighter , nor the Narrow Narrow World , nor the Hills of the Chattermuch , nor the Children 's Twaddeday , why then they be something else .
And , all the rest of the little people in the world read the book , and think themselves each as good a the President ; and perhaps they be right , for every one know his own business best .
But Tom think he would sooner have a jolly good fairy tale , about Jack the Giant-killer or Beauty and the Beast , which teach him something that he do n't know already .
And next he come to the centre of Creation -LRB- the hub , they call it there -RRB- , which lie in latitude 42.21 degree south , and longitude 108.56 degree east .
And there he find all the wise people instruct mankind in the science of spirit-rapping , while their house be burn over their head : and when Tom tell them of the fire , they hold an indignation meeting forthwith , and unanimously determine to hang Tom 's dog for come into their country with gunpowder in his mouth .
Tom could n't help say that though they do fancy they have carry all the wit away with them out of Lincolnshire two hundred year ago , yet if they have have one such Lincolnshire nobleman among them a good old Lord Yarborough , he would have call for the fire-engines before he hang other people 's dog .
But it be of no use , and the dog be hang : and Tom could n't even have his carcase ; for they have abolish the have-his-carcase act in that country , for fear l when rogue fell out , honest men should come by their own .
And so they would have succeed perfectly , a they always do , only that -LRB- a they also always do -RRB- they fail in one little particular , viz .
that the dog would not die , be a water-dog , but bite their finger so abominably that they be force to let him go , and Tom likewise , a British subject .
Whereon they recommence rap for the spirit of their father ; and very much astonish the poor old spirit be when they come , and saw how , accord to the law of Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid , their descendant have weaken their constitution by hard living .
Then come Tom to the Island of Polupragmosyne -LRB- which some call Rogues ' Harbour ; but they be wrong ; for that be in the middle of Bramshill Bushes , and the county police have clear it out long ago -RRB- .
There every one know his neighbour 's business well than his own ; and a very noisy place it be , a might be expect , consider that all the inhabitant be ex officio on the wrong side of the house in the `` Parliament of Man , and the Federation of the World ; '' and be always make wry mouth , and cry that the fairy ' grape be sour .
There Tom saw plough draw horse , nail drive hammer , bird ' nest take boy , book make author , bull keep china-shops , monkey shave cat , dead dog drill live lion , blind brigadier shelfed a principal of college , play-actor not in the least shelfed a popular preacher ; and , in short , every one set to do something which he have not learn , because in what he have learn , or pretend to learn , he have fail .
There stand the Pantheon of the Great Unsuccessful , from the builder of the Tower of Babel to those of the Trafalgar Fountains ; in which politician lecture on the constitution which ought to have march , conspirator on the revolution which ought to have succeed , economist on the scheme which ought to have make every one 's fortune , and projector on the discovery which ought to have set the Thames on fire .
There cobbler lecture on orthopedy -LRB- whatsoever that may be -RRB- because they can not sell their shoe ; and poet on AEsthetics -LRB- whatsoever that may be -RRB- because they can not sell their poetry .
There philosopher demonstrate that England would be the free and rich country in the world , if she would only turn Papist again ; penny-a-liners abuse the Times , because they have not wit enough to get on it staff ; and young lady walk about with locket of Charles the First 's hair -LRB- or of somebody else 's , when the Jews ' genuine stock be use up -RRB- , inscribed with the neat and appropriate legend -- which indeed be popular through all that land , and which , I hope , you will learn to translate in due time and to perpend likewise : - `` Victrix causa diis placuit , sed victa puellis . ''
When he get into the middle of the town , they all set on him at once , to show him his way ; or rather , to show him that he do not know his way ; for a for ask him what way he want to go , no one ever think of that .
But one pull him hither , and another poke him thither , and a third cried - `` You must n't go west , I tell you ; it be destruction to go west . ''
`` But I be not go west , a you may see , '' say Tom .
And another , `` The east lie here , my dear ; I assure you this be the east . ''
`` But I do n't want to go east , '' say Tom .
`` Well , then , at all event , whichever way you be go , you be go wrong , '' cry they all with one voice -- which be the only thing which they ever agree about ; and all point at once to all the thirty-and-two point of the compass , till Tom think all the sign-posts in England have get together , and fall fighting .
And whether he would have ever escape out of the town , it be hard to say , if the dog have not take it into his head that they be go to pull his master in piece , and tackle them so sharply about the gastrocnemius muscle , that he give them some business of their own to think of at last ; and while they be rub their bitten calf , Tom and the dog get safe away .
On the border of that island he find Gotham , where the wise men live ; the same who drag the pond because the moon have fall into it , and plant a hedge round the cuckoo , to keep spring all the year .
And he find them bricking up the town gate , because it be so wide that little folk could not get through .
And , when he ask why , they tell him they be expand their liturgy .
So he go on ; for it be no business of his : only he could not help say that in his country , if the kitten could not get in at the same hole a the cat , she might stay outside and mew .
But he saw the end of such fellow , when he come to the island of the Golden Asses , where nothing but thistle grow .
For there they be all turn into moke with ear a yard long , for meddle with matter which they do not understand , a Lucius do in the story .
And like him , mokes they must remain , till , by the law of development , the thistle develop into rose .
Till then , they must comfort themselves with the thought , that the long their ear be , the thicker their hide ; and so a good beating do n't hurt them .
Then come Tom to the great land of Hearsay , in which be no less than thirty and odd king , beside half a dozen Republics , and perhaps more by next mail .
And there he fell in with a deep , dark , deadly , and destructive war , wag by the prince and potentate of those part , both spiritual and temporal , against what do you think ?
One thing I be sure of .
That unless I tell you , you would never know ; nor how they wag that war either ; for all their strategy and art military consist in the safe and easy process of stop their ear and screaming , `` Oh , do n't tell u ! ''
and then run away .
So when Tom come into that land , he find them all , high and low , man , woman , and child , run for their life day and night continually , and entreat not to be tell they do n't know what : only the land be an island , and they have a dislike to the water -LRB- be a musty lot for the most part -RRB- , they run round and round the shore for ever , which -LRB- a the island be exactly of the same circumference a the planet on which we have the honour of living -RRB- be hard work , especially to those who have business to look after .
But before them , a bandmaster and fugleman , run a gentleman shear a pig ; the melodious strain of which animal lead them for ever , if not to conquest , still to flight ; and keep up their spirit mightily with the thought that they would at least have the pig 's wool for their pain .
And run after them , day and night , come such a poor , lean , seedy , hard-worked old giant , a ought to have be cocker up , and have a good dinner give him , and a good wife find him , and be set to play with little child ; and then he would have be a very presentable old fellow after all ; for he have a heart , though it be considerably overgrow with brain .
He be make up principally of fish bone and parchment , put together with wire and Canada balsam ; and smelt strongly of spirit , though he never drink anything but water : but spirit he use somehow , there be no denying .
He have a great pair of spectacle on his nose , and a butterfly-net in one hand , and a geological hammer in the other ; and be hang all over with pocket , full of collect box , bottle , microscope , telescope , barometer , ordnance map , scalpel , forceps , photographic apparatus , and all other tackle for find out everything about everything , and a little more too .
And , most strange of all , he be run not forward but backwards , as fast a he could .
Away all the good folk run from him , except Tom , who stand his ground and dodge between his leg ; and the giant , when he have pass him , look down , and cry , a if he be quite pleased and comfort , - `` What ?
who be you ?
And you actually do n't run away , like all the rest ? ''
But he have to take his spectacle off , Tom remark , in order to see him plainly .
Tom tell him who he be ; and the giant pull out a bottle and a cork instantly , to collect him with .
But Tom be too sharp for that , and dodge between his leg and in front of him ; and then the giant could not see him at all .
`` No , no , no ! ''
say Tom , `` I 've not be round the world , and through the world , and up to Mother Carey 's haven , beside be catch in a net and call a Holothurian and a Cephalopod , to be bottle up by any old giant like you . ''
And when the giant understood what a great traveller Tom have be , he make a truce with him at once , and would have keep him there to this day to pick his brain , so delighted be he at find any one to tell him what he do not know before .
`` Ah , you lucky little dog ! ''
say he at last , quite simply -- for he be the simple , pleasant , honest , kindly old Dominie Sampson of a giant that ever turn the world upside down without intend it -- `` ah , you lucky little dog !
If I have only be where you have be , to see what you have see ! ''
`` Well , '' say Tom , `` if you want to do that , you have best put your head under water for a few hour , a I do , and turn into a water - baby , or some other baby , and then you might have a chance . ''
`` Turn into a baby , eh ?
If I could do that , and know what be happen to me for but one hour , I should know everything then , and be at rest .
But I ca n't ; I ca n't be a little child again ; and I suppose if I could , it would be no use , because then I should then know nothing about what be happen to me .
Ah , you lucky little dog ! ''
say the poor old giant .
`` But why do you run after all these poor people ? ''
say Tom , who like the giant very much .
`` My dear , it 's they that have be run after me , father and son , for hundred and hundred of year , throw stone at me till they have knock off my spectacle fifty time , and call me a malignant and a turbaned Turk , who beat a Venetian and traduce the State -- goodness only know what they mean , for I never read poetry - - and hunt me round and round -- though catch me they ca n't , for every time I go over the same ground , I go the faster , and grow the big .
While all I want be to be friend with them , and to tell them something to their advantage , like Mr. Joseph Ady : only somehow they be so strangely afraid of hear it .
But , I suppose I be not a man of the world , and have no tact . ''
`` But why do n't you turn round and tell them so ? ''
`` Because I ca n't .
You see , I be one of the son of Epimetheus , and must go backwards , if I be to go at all . ''
`` But why do n't you stop , and let them come up to you ? ''
`` Why , my dear , only think .
If I do , all the butterfly and cockyolybirds would fly past me , and then I should catch no more new specie , and should grow rusty and mouldy , and die .
And I do n't intend to do that , my dear ; for I have a destiny before me , they say : though what it be I do n't know , and do n't care . ''
`` Do n't care ? ''
say Tom .
`` No .
Do the duty which lie near you , and catch the first beetle you come across , be my motto ; and I have thrive by it for some hundred year .
Now I must go on .
Dear me , while I have be talk to you , at least nine new specie have escape me . ''
And on go the giant , behind before , like a bull in a china-shop , till he run into the steeple of the great idol temple -LRB- for they be all idolater in those part , of course , else they would never be afraid of giant -RRB- , and knock the upper half clean off , hurt himself horribly about the small of the back .
But little he care ; for as soon a the ruin of the steeple be well between his leg , he poke and peer among the fall stone , and shift his spectacle , and pull out his pocket - magnifier , and cry - `` An entirely new Oniscus , and three obscure Podurellae !
Besides a moth which M. le Roi des Papillons -LRB- though he , like all Frenchmen , be give to hasty induction -RRB- say be confine to the limit of the Glacial Drift .
This be most important ! ''
And down he sit on the nave of the temple -LRB- not be a man of the world -RRB- to examine his Podurellae .
Whereon -LRB- a be to be expect -RRB- the roof cave in bodily , smash the idol , and send the priest fly out of door and window , like rabbit out of a burrow when a ferret go in .
But he never heed ; for out of the dust fly a bat , and the giant have him in a moment .
`` Dear me !
This be even more important !
Here be a cognate specie to that which Macgilliwaukie Brown insist be confine to the Buddhist temple of Little Thibet ; and now when I look at it , it may be only a variety produce by difference of climate ! ''
And have bag his bat , up he get , and on he go ; while all the people run , be in none the good humour for have their temple smash for the sake of three obscure specie of Podurella , and a Buddhist bat .
`` Well , '' think Tom , `` this be a very pretty quarrel , with a good deal to be say on both side .
But it be no business of mine . ''
And no more it be , because he be a water-baby , and have the original sow by the right ear ; which you will never have , unless you be a baby , whether of the water , the land , or the air , matter not , provide you can only keep on continually be a baby .
So the giant ran round after the people , and the people run round after the giant , and they be run , unto this day for aught I know , or do not know ; and will run till either he , or they , or both , turn into little child .
And then , a Shakespeare say -LRB- and therefore it must be true -RRB- - `` Jack shall have Gill Nought shall go ill The man shall have his mare again , and all go well . ''
Then Tom come to a very famous island , which be call , in the day of the great traveller Captain Gulliver , the Isle of Laputa .
But Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid have name it over again the Isle of Tomtoddies , all head and no body .
And when Tom come near it , he hear such a grumbling and grunting and growling and wailing and weeping and whining that he think people must be ring little pig , or crop puppy ' ear , or drown kitten : but when he come nearer still , he begin to hear word among the noise ; which be the Tomtoddies ' song which they sing morning and evening , and all night too , to their great idol Examination - `` I ca n't learn my lesson : the examiner 's come ! ''
And that be the only song which they know .
And when Tom get on shore the first thing he saw be a great pillar , on one side of which be inscribe , `` Playthings not allow here ; '' at which he be so shocked that he would not stay to see what be write on the other side .
Then he look round for the people of the island : but instead of men , woman , and child , he find nothing but turnip and radish , beet and mangold wurzel , without a single green leaf among them , and half of them burst and decay , with toad-stools grow out of them .
Those which be leave begin cry to Tom , in half a dozen different language at once , and all of them badly speak , `` I ca n't learn my lesson ; do come and help me ! ''
And one cried , `` Can you show me how to extract this square root ? ''
And another , `` Can you tell me the distance between -LSB- alpha -RSB- Lyrae and -LSB- beta -RSB- Camelopardis ? ''
And another , `` What be the latitude and longitude of Snooksville , in Noman 's County , Oregon , U.S. ? ''
And another , `` What be the name of Mutius Scaevola 's thirteenth cousin 's grandmother 's maid 's cat ? ''
And another , `` How long would it take a school-inspector of average activity to tumble head over heel from London to York ? ''
And another , `` Can you tell me the name of a place that nobody ever heard of , where nothing ever happen , in a country which have not be discover yet ? ''
And another , `` Can you show me how to correct this hopelessly corrupt passage of Graidiocolosyrtus Tabenniticus , on the cause why crocodile have no tongue ? ''
And so on , and so on , and so on , till one would have think they be all try for tide-waiters ' place , or cornetcies in the heavy dragoon .
`` And what good on earth will it do you if I do tell you ? ''
quoth Tom .
Well , they do n't know that : all they know be the examiner be come .
Then Tom stumble on the hugest and soft nimblecomequick turnip you ever saw fill a hole in a crop of swede , and it cry to him , `` Can you tell me anything at all about anything you like ? ''
`` About what ? ''
say Tom .
`` About anything you like ; for as fast a I learn thing I forget them again .
So my mamma say that my intellect be not adapt for methodic science , and say that I must go in for general information . ''
Tom tell him that he do not know general information , nor any officer in the army ; only he have a friend once that go for a drummer : but he could tell him a great many strange thing which he have see in his travel .
So he tell him prettily enough , while the poor turnip listen very carefully ; and the more he listen , the more he forget , and the more water run out of him .
Tom think he be cry : but it be only his poor brain run away , from be work so hard ; and a Tom talk , the unhappy turnip stream down all over with juice , and split and shrank till nothing be leave of him but rind and water ; whereat Tom run away in a fright , for he think he might be take up for kill the turnip .
But , on the contrary , the turnip 's parent be highly delight , and consider him a saint and a martyr , and put up a long inscription over his tomb about his wonderful talent , early development , and unparalleled precocity .
Were they not a foolish couple ?
But there be a still more foolish couple next to them , who be beat a wretched little radish , no big than my thumb , for sullenness and obstinacy and wilful stupidity , and never know that the reason why it could n't learn or hardly even speak be , that there be a great worm inside it eat out all it brain .
But even they be no foolish than some hundred score of papa and mamma , who fetch the rod when they ought to fetch a new toy , and send to the dark cupboard instead of to the doctor .
Tom be so puzzled and frighten with all he saw , that he be long to ask the meaning of it ; and at last he stumble over a respectable old stick lie half cover with earth .
But a very stout and worthy stick it be , for it belong to good Roger Ascham in old time , and have carve on it head King Edward the Sixth , with the Bible in his hand .
`` You see , '' say the stick , `` there be a pretty little child once a you could wish to see , and might have be so still if they have be only leave to grow up like human being , and then hand over to me ; but their foolish father and mother , instead of let them pick flower , and make dirt-pies , and get bird ' nest , and dance round the gooseberry bush , a little child should , keep them always at lesson , work , work , work , learn week-day lesson all week-days , and Sunday lesson all Sunday , and weekly examination every Saturday , and monthly examination every month , and yearly examination every year , everything seven time over , a if once be not enough , and enough as good a a feast -- till their brain grow big , and their body grow small , and they be all change into turnip , with little but water inside ; and still their foolish parent actually pick the leaf off them as fast a they grow , l they should have anything green about them . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say Tom , `` if dear Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby know of it she would send them a lot of top , and ball , and marble , and ninepin , and make them all as jolly a sand-boys . ''
`` It would be no use , '' say the stick .
`` They ca n't play now , if they try .
Do n't you see how their leg have turn to root and grow into the ground , by never take any exercise , but sap and mop always in the same place ?
But here come the Examiner - of-all-Examiners .
So you have good get away , I warn you , or he will examine you and your dog into the bargain , and set him to examine all the other dog , and you to examine all the other water - baby .
There be no escape out of his hand , for his nose be nine thousand mile long , and can go down chimney , and through keyhole , upstairs , downstairs , in my lady 's chamber , examine all little boy , and the little boy ' tutor likewise .
But when he be thrash -- so Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid have promise me -- I shall have the thrashing of him : and if I do n't lay it on with a will it 's a pity . ''
Tom go off : but rather slowly and surlily ; for he be somewhat mind to face this same Examiner-of-all-Examiners , who come stride among the poor turnip , bind heavy burden and grievous to be borne , and lay them on little child 's shoulder , like the Scribes and Pharisees of old , and not touch the same with one of his finger ; for he have plenty of money , and a fine house to live in , and so forth ; which be more than the poor little turnip have .
But when he get near , he look so big and burly and dictatorial , and shout so loud to Tom , to come and be examine , that Tom run for his life , and the dog too .
And really it be time ; for the poor turnip , in their hurry and fright , cram themselves so fast to be ready for the Examiner , that they burst and pop by dozen all round him , till the place sound like Aldershot on a field - day , and Tom think he should be blow into the air , dog and all .
As he go down to the shore he pass the poor turnip 's new tomb .
But Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid have take away the epitaph about talent and precocity and development , and put up one of her own instead which Tom think much more sensible : - `` Instruction sore long time I bore , And cram be in vain ; Till heaven do please my woe to ease With water on the brain . ''
So Tom jump into the sea , and swam on his way , singing : - `` Farewell , Tomtoddies all ; I thank my star That nought I know save those three royal r 's : Reading and riting sure , with rithmetick , Will help a lad of sense through thin and thick . ''
Whereby you may see that Tom be no poet : but no more be John Bunyan , though he be a wise a man a you will meet in a month of Sundays .
And next he come to Oldwivesfabledom , where the folk be all heathen , and worship a howling ape .
And there he find a little boy sit in the middle of the road , and cry bitterly .
`` What be you cry for ? ''
say Tom .
`` Because I be not as frighten a I could wish to be . ''
`` Not frighten ?
You be a queer little chap : but , if you want to be frighten , here go -- Boo ! ''
`` Ah , '' say the little boy , `` that be very kind of you ; but I do n't feel that it have make any impression . ''
Tom offer to upset him , punch him , stamp on him , fettle him over the head with a brick , or anything else whatsoever which would give him the slight comfort .
But he only thank Tom very civilly , in fine long word which he have hear other folk use , and which therefore , he think be fit and proper to use himself ; and cry on till his papa and mamma come , and send off for the Powwow man immediately .
And a very good-natured gentleman and lady they be , though they be heathen ; and talk quite pleasantly to Tom about his travel , till the Powwow man arrive , with his thunderbox under his arm .
And a well-fed , ill-favoured gentleman he be , a ever serve Her Majesty at Portland .
Tom be a little frightened at first ; for he think it be Grimes .
But he soon saw his mistake : for Grimes always look a man in the face ; and this fellow never do .
And when he speak , it be fire and smoke ; and when he sneeze , it be squibs and cracker ; and when he cry -LRB- which he do whenever it pay him -RRB- , it be boil pitch ; and some of it be sure to stick .
`` Here we be again ! ''
cry he , like the clown in a pantomime .
`` So you ca n't feel frightened , my little dear -- eh ?
I 'll do that for you .
I 'll make an impression on you !
Yah !
Boo !
Whirroo !
Hullabaloo ! ''
And he rattle , thump , brandish his thunder-box , yell , shout , rave , roar , stamp , and dance corrobory like any black fellow ; and then he touch a spring in the thunderbox , and out pop turnip-ghosts and magic-lanthorns and pasteboard bogy and spring-heeled Jacks , and sallaballas , with such a horrid din , clatter , clank , roll , rattle , and roar , that the little boy turn up the white of his eye , and faint right away .
And at that his poor heathen papa and mamma be as much delight a if they have find a gold mine ; and fell down upon their knee before the Powwow man , and give him a palanquin with a pole of solid silver and curtain of cloth of gold ; and carry him about in it on their own back : but as soon a they have take him up , the pole stuck to their shoulder , and they could not set him down any more , but carry him on willynilly , a Sinbad carry the old man of the sea : which be a pitiable sight to see ; for the father be a very brave officer , and wear two sword and a blue button ; and the mother be a pretty a lady a ever have pinch foot like a Chinese .
But you see , they have choose to do a foolish thing just once too often ; so , by the law of Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid , they have to go on do it whether they choose or not , till the come of the Cocqcigrues .
Ah !
do n't you wish that some one would go and convert those poor heathen , and teach them not to frighten their little child into fit ?
`` Now , then , '' say the Powwow man to Tom , `` would n't you like to be frighten , my little dear ?
For I can see plainly that you be a very wicked , naughty , graceless , reprobate boy . ''
`` You 're another , '' quoth Tom , very sturdily .
And when the man run at him , and cry `` Boo ! ''
Tom run at him in return , and cry `` Boo ! ''
likewise , right in his face , and set the little dog upon him ; and at his leg the dog go .
At which , if you will believe it , the fellow turn tail , thunderbox and all , with a `` Woof ! ''
like an old sow on the common ; and run for his life , screaming , `` Help !
thief !
murder !
fire !
He be go to kill me !
I be a ruined man !
He will murder me ; and break , burn , and destroy my precious and invaluable thunderbox ; and then you will have no more thunder-showers in the land .
Help !
help !
help ! ''
At which the papa and mamma and all the people of Oldwivesfabledom fly at Tom , shouting , `` Oh , the wicked , impudent , hard-hearted , graceless boy !
Beat him , kick him , shoot him , drown him , hang him , burn him ! ''
and so forth : but luckily they have nothing to shoot , hang , or burn him with , for the fairy have hide all the kill - tackle out of the way a little while before ; so they could only pelt him with stone ; and some of the stone go clean through him , and come out the other side .
But he do not mind that a bit ; for the hole close up again as fast a they be make , because he be a water-baby .
However , he be very glad when he be safe out of the country , for the noise there make him all but deaf .
Then he come to a very quiet place , call Leaveheavenalone .
And there the sun be draw water out of the sea to make steam - thread , and the wind be twist them up to make cloud-patterns , till they have work between them the lovely wedding veil of Chantilly lace , and hang it up in their own Crystal Palace for any one to buy who could afford it ; while the good old sea never grudge , for she know they would pay her back honestly .
So the sun span , and the wind wove , and all go well with the great steam - loom ; a be likely , consider -- and consider -- and consider - And at last , after innumerable adventure , each more wonderful than the last , he saw before him a huge building , much big , and -- what be most surprising -- a little ugly than a certain new lunatic asylum , but not build quite of the same material .
None of it , at least -- or , indeed , for aught that I ever saw , any part of any other building whatsoever -- be case with nine-inch brick inside and out , and fill up with rubble between the wall , in order that any gentleman who have be confine during Her Majesty 's pleasure may be unconfined during his own pleasure , and take a walk in the neighbouring park to improve his spirit , after an hour 's light and wholesome labour with his dinner-fork or one of the leg of his iron bedstead .
No .
The wall of this building be build on an entirely different principle , which need not be describe , a it have not yet be discover .
Tom walk towards this great building , wonder what it be , and have a strange fancy that he might find Mr. Grimes inside it , till he saw run toward him , and shout `` Stop ! ''
three or four people , who , when they come nearer , be nothing else than policeman 's truncheon , run along without leg or arm .
Tom be not astonish .
He be long past that .
Besides , he have see the naviculae in the water move nobody know how , a hundred time , without arm , or leg , or anything to stand in their stead .
Neither be he frighten for he have be do no harm .
So he stop ; and , when the foremost truncheon come up and ask his business , he show Mother Carey 's pas ; and the truncheon look at it in the odd fashion ; for he have one eye in the middle of his upper end , so that when he look at anything , be quite stiff , he have to slope himself , and poke himself , till it be a wonder why he do not tumble over ; but , be quite full of the spirit of justice -LRB- a all policeman , and their truncheon , ought to be -RRB- , he be always in a position of stable equilibrium , whichever way he put himself .
`` All right -- pas on , '' say he at last .
And then he add : `` I have well go with you , young man . ''
And Tom have no objection , for such company be both respectable and safe ; so the truncheon coil it thong neatly round it handle , to prevent trip itself up -- for the thong have get loose in run -- and march on by Tom 's side .
`` Why have you no policeman to carry you ? ''
ask Tom , after a while .
`` Because we be not like those clumsy-made truncheon in the land - world , which can not go without have a whole man to carry them about .
We do our own work for ourselves ; and do it very well , though I say it who should not . ''
`` Then why have you a thong to your handle ? ''
ask Tom .
`` To hang ourselves up by , of course , when we be off duty . ''
Tom have get his answer , and have no more to say , till they come up to the great iron door of the prison .
And there the truncheon knock twice , with it own head .
A wicket in the door open , and out look a tremendous old brass blunderbuss charge up to the muzzle with slug , who be the porter ; and Tom start back a little at the sight of him .
`` What case be this ? ''
he ask in a deep voice , out of his broad bell mouth .
`` If you please , sir , it be no case ; only a young gentleman from her ladyship , who want to see Grimes , the master-sweep . ''
`` Grimes ? ''
say the blunderbuss .
And he pull in his muzzle , perhaps to look over his prison-lists .
`` Grimes be up chimney No . 345 , '' he say from inside .
`` So the young gentleman have good go on to the roof . ''
Tom look up at the enormous wall , which seem at least ninety mile high , and wonder how he should ever get up : but , when he hint that to the truncheon , it settle the matter in a moment .
For it whisk round , and give him such a shove behind a sent him up to the roof in no time , with his little dog under his arm .
And there he walk along the lead , till he meet another truncheon , and tell him his errand .
`` Very good , '' it say .
`` Come along : but it will be of no use .
He be the most unremorseful , hard-hearted , foul-mouthed fellow I have in charge ; and think about nothing but beer and pipe , which be not allow here , of course . ''
So they walk along over the lead , and very sooty they be , and Tom think the chimney must want sweeping very much .
But he be surprised to see that the soot do not stick to his foot , or dirty them in the least .
Neither do the live coal , which be lie about in plenty , burn him ; for , be a water-baby , his radical humour be of a moist and cold nature , a you may read at large in Lemnius , Cardan , Van Helmont , and other gentleman , who know as much a they could , and no man can know more .
And at last they come to chimney No . 345 .
Out of the top of it , his head and shoulder just show , stuck poor Mr. Grimes , so sooty , and blear , and ugly , that Tom could hardly bear to look at him .
And in his mouth be a pipe ; but it be not a-light ; though he be pull at it with all his might .
`` Attention , Mr. Grimes , '' say the truncheon ; `` here be a gentleman come to see you . ''
But Mr. Grimes only say bad word ; and keep grumbling , `` My pipe wo n't draw .
My pipe wo n't draw . ''
`` Keep a civil tongue , and attend ! ''
say the truncheon ; and pop up just like Punch , hit Grimes such a crack over the head with itself , that his brain rattle inside like a dried walnut in it shell .
He try to get his hand out , and rub the place : but he could not , for they be stick fast in the chimney .
Now he be force to attend .
`` Hey ! ''
he say , `` why , it 's Tom !
I suppose you have come here to laugh at me , you spiteful little atomy ? ''
Tom assure him he have not , but only want to help him .
`` I do n't want anything except beer , and that I ca n't get ; and a light to this bothering pipe , and that I ca n't get either . ''
`` I 'll get you one , '' say Tom ; and he take up a live coal -LRB- there be plenty lie about -RRB- and put it to Grimes ' pipe : but it go out instantly .
`` It 's no use , '' say the truncheon , lean itself up against the chimney and look on .
`` I tell you , it be no use .
His heart be so cold that it freeze everything that come near him .
You will see that presently , plain enough . ''
`` Oh , of course , it 's my fault .
Everything 's always my fault , '' say Grimes .
`` Now do n't go to hit me again '' -LRB- for the truncheon start upright , and look very wicked -RRB- ; `` you know , if my arm be only free , you dare n't hit me then . ''
The truncheon leant back against the chimney , and take no notice of the personal insult , like a well-trained policeman a it be , though he be ready enough to avenge any transgression against morality or order .
`` But ca n't I help you in any other way ?
Ca n't I help you to get out of this chimney ? ''
say Tom .
`` No , '' interpose the truncheon ; `` he have come to the place where everybody must help themselves ; and he will find it out , I hope , before he have do with me . ''
`` Oh , yes , '' say Grimes , `` of course it 's me .
Did I ask to be bring here into the prison ?
Did I ask to be set to sweep your foul chimney ?
Did I ask to have light straw put under me to make me go up ?
Did I ask to stick fast in the very first chimney of all , because it be so shamefully clog up with soot ?
Did I ask to stay here -- I do n't know how long -- a hundred year , I do believe , and never get my pipe , nor my beer , nor nothing fit for a beast , let alone a man ? ''
`` No , '' answer a solemn voice behind .
`` No more do Tom , when you behave to him in the very same way . ''
It be Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid .
And , when the truncheon saw her , it start bolt upright -- Attention !
-- and make such a low bow , that if it have not be full of the spirit of justice , it must have tumble on it end , and probably hurt it one eye .
And Tom make his bow too .
`` Oh , ma'am , '' he say , `` do n't think about me ; that 's all past and go , and good time and bad time and all time pass over .
But may not I help poor Mr. Grimes ?
May n't I try and get some of these brick away , that he may move his arm ? ''
`` You may try , of course , '' she say .
So Tom pull and tug at the brick : but he could not move one .
And then he try to wipe Mr. Grimes ' face : but the soot would not come off .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
he say .
`` I have come all this way , through all these terrible place , to help you , and now I be of no use at all . ''
`` You have best leave me alone , '' say Grimes ; `` you be a good-natured forgiving little chap , and that 's truth ; but you 'd best be off .
The hail 's come on soon , and it will beat the eye out of your little head . ''
`` What hail ? ''
`` Why , hail that fall every evening here ; and , till it come close to me , it 's like so much warm rain : but then it turn to hail over my head , and knock me about like small shot . ''
`` That hail will never come any more , '' say the strange lady .
`` I have tell you before what it be .
It be your mother 's tear , those which she shed when she pray for you by her bedside ; but your cold heart froze it into hail .
But she be go to heaven now , and will weep no more for her graceless son . ''
Then Grimes be silent awhile ; and then he look very sad .
`` So my old mother 's go , and I never there to speak to her !
Ah !
a good woman she be , and might have be a happy one , in her little school there in Vendale , if it have n't be for me and my bad way . ''
`` Did she keep the school in Vendale ? ''
ask Tom .
And then he tell Grimes all the story of his go to her house , and how she could not abide the sight of a chimney-sweep , and then how kind she be , and how he turn into a water-baby .
`` Ah ! ''
say Grimes , `` good reason she have to hate the sight of a chimney-sweep .
I run away from her and take up with the sweep , and never let her know where I be , nor send her a penny to help her , and now it 's too late -- too late ! ''
say Mr. Grimes .
And he begin cry and blubber like a great baby , till his pipe drop out of his mouth , and break all to bit .
`` Oh , dear , if I be but a little chap in Vendale again , to see the clear beck , and the apple-orchard , and the yew-hedge , how different I would go on !
But it 's too late now .
So you go along , you kind little chap , and do n't stand to look at a man cry , that 's old enough to be your father , and never fear the face of man , nor of bad neither .
But I 'm beat now , and beat I must be .
I 've make my bed , and I must lie on it .
Foul I would be , and foul I be , a an Irishwoman say to me once ; and little I heed it .
It 's all my own fault : but it 's too late . ''
And he cry so bitterly that Tom begin cry too .
`` Never too late , '' say the fairy , in such a strange soft new voice that Tom look up at her ; and she be so beautiful for the moment , that Tom half fancy she be her sister .
No more be it too late .
For , a poor Grimes cry and blubber on , his own tear do what his mother 's could not do , and Tom 's could not do , and nobody 's on earth could do for him ; for they wash the soot off his face and off his clothes ; and then they wash the mortar away from between the brick ; and the chimney crumble down ; and Grimes begin to get out of it .
Up jump the truncheon , and be go to hit him on the crown a tremendous thump , and drive him down again like a cork into a bottle .
But the strange lady put it aside .
`` Will you obey me if I give you a chance ? ''
`` As you please , ma'am .
You 're strong than me -- that I know too well , and wise than me , I know too well also .
And , a for be my own master , I 've fare ill enough with that a yet .
So whatever your ladyship plea to order me ; for I 'm beat , and that 's the truth . ''
`` Be it so then -- you may come out .
But remember , disobey me again , and into a bad place still you go . ''
`` I beg pardon ma'am , but I never disobey you that I know of .
I never have the honour of set eye upon you till I come to these ugly quarter . ''
`` Never saw me ?
Who say to you , Those that will be foul , foul they will be ? ''
Grimes look up ; and Tom look up too ; for the voice be that of the Irishwoman who meet them the day that they go out together to Harthover .
`` I give you your warn then : but you give it yourself a thousand time before and since .
Every bad word that you say -- every cruel and mean thing that you do -- every time that you get tipsy -- every day that you go dirty -- you be disobey me , whether you know it or not . ''
`` If I 'd only know , ma'am -- '' `` You know well enough that you be disobey something , though you do not know it be me .
But come out and take your chance .
Perhaps it may be your last . ''
So Grimes step out of the chimney , and really , if it have not be for the scar on his face , he look a clean and respectable a a master-sweep need look .
`` Take him away , '' say she to the truncheon , `` and give him his ticket-of-leave . ''
`` And what be he to do , ma'am ? ''
`` Get him to sweep out the crater of Etna ; he will find some very steady men work out their time there , who will teach him his business : but mind , if that crater get choke again , and there be an earthquake in consequence , bring them all to me , and I shall investigate the case very severely . ''
So the truncheon march off Mr. Grimes , look as meek a a drowned worm .
And for aught I know , or do not know , he be sweep the crater of Etna to this very day .
`` And now , '' say the fairy to Tom , `` your work here be do .
You may as well go back again . ''
`` I should be glad enough to go , '' say Tom , `` but how be I to get up that great hole again , now the steam have stop blow ? ''
`` I will take you up the backstairs : but I must bandage your eye first ; for I never allow anybody to see those backstairs of mine . ''
`` I be sure I shall not tell anybody about them , ma'am , if you bid me not . ''
`` Aha !
So you think , my little man .
But you would soon forget your promise if you get back into the land-world .
For , if people only once find out that you have be up my backstairs , you would have all the fine lady kneel to you , and the rich men empty their purse before you , and statesman offer you place and power ; and young and old , rich and poor , cry to you , ` Only tell u the great backstairs secret , and we will be your slave ; we will make you lord , king , emperor , bishop , archbishop , pope , if you like -- only tell u the secret of the backstairs .
For thousand of year we have be pay , and petting , and obeying , and worship quack who tell u they have the key of the backstairs , and could smuggle u up them ; and in spite of all our disappointment , we will honour , and glorify , and adore , and beatify , and translate , and apotheotise you likewise , on the chance of your know something about the backstairs , that we may all go on pilgrimage to it ; and , even if we can not get up it , lie at the foot of it , and cry - ` Oh , backstairs , precious backstairs , invaluable backstairs , requisite backstairs , necessary backstairs , good-natured backstairs , cosmopolitan backstairs , comprehensive backstairs , accommodate backstairs , well-bred backstairs , commercial backstairs , economical backstairs , practical backstairs , logical backstairs , deductive backstairs , comfortable backstairs , humane backstairs , reasonable backstairs , long-sought backstairs , covet backstairs , aristocratic backstairs , respectable backstairs , gentlenmanlike backstairs , ladylike backstairs , orthodox backstairs , probable backstairs , credible backstairs , demonstrable backstairs , irrefragable backstairs , potent backstairs , all-but-omnipotent backstairs , & c. Save u from the consequence of our own action , and from the cruel fairy , Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid ! '
Do not you think that you would be a little tempted then to tell what you know , laddie ? ''
Tom think so certainly .
`` But why do they want so to know about the backstairs ? ''
ask he , be a little frighten at the long word , and not understand them the least ; a , indeed , he be not mean to do , or you either .
`` That I shall not tell you .
I never put thing into little folk ' head which be but too likely to come there of themselves .
So come -- now I must bandage your eye . ''
So she tie the bandage on his eye with one hand , and with the other she take it off .
`` Now , '' she say , `` you be safe up the stair . ''
Tom open his eye very wide , and his mouth too ; for he have not , a he think , move a single step .
But , when he look round him , there could be no doubt that he be safe up the backstairs , whatsoever they may be , which no man be go to tell you , for the plain reason that no man know .
The first thing which Tom saw be the black cedar , high and sharp against the rosy dawn ; and St. Brandan 's Isle reflect double in the still broad silver sea .
The wind sang softly in the cedar , and the water sang among the eaves : the sea-birds sing a they stream out into the ocean , and the land-birds a they build among the bough ; and the air be so full of song that it stir St. Brandan and his hermit , a they slumber in the shade ; and they move their good old lip , and sing their morning hymn amid their dream .
But among all the song one come across the water more sweet and clear than all ; for it be the song of a young girl 's voice .
And what be the song which she sing ?
Ah , my little man , I be too old to sing that song , and you too young to understand it .
But have patience , and keep your eye single , and your hand clean , and you will learn some day to sing it yourself , without need any man to teach you .
And a Tom near the island , there sit upon a rock the most graceful creature that ever be see , look down , with her chin upon her hand , and paddle with her foot in the water .
And when they come to her she look up , and behold it be Ellie .
`` Oh , Miss Ellie , '' say he , `` how you be grown ! ''
`` Oh , Tom , '' say she , `` how you be grow too ! ''
And no wonder ; they be both quite grow up -- he into a tall man , and she into a beautiful woman .
`` Perhaps I may be grow , '' she say .
`` I have have time enough ; for I have be sit here wait for you many a hundred year , till I think you be never come . ''
`` Many a hundred year ? ''
thought Tom ; but he have see so much in his travel that he have quite give up be astonish ; and , indeed , he could think of nothing but Ellie .
So he stand and look at Ellie , and Ellie look at him ; and they like the employment so much that they stand and look for seven year more , and neither speak nor stir .
At last they hear the fairy say : `` Attention , child .
Are you never go to look at me again ? ''
`` We have be look at you all this while , '' they say .
And so they think they have be .
`` Then look at me once more , '' say she .
They look -- and both of them cry out at once , `` Oh , who be you , after all ? ''
`` You be our dear Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby . ''
`` No , you be good Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid ; but you be grow quite beautiful now ! ''
`` To you , '' say the fairy .
`` But look again . ''
`` You be Mother Carey , '' say Tom , in a very low , solemn voice ; for he have find out something which make him very happy , and yet frighten him more than all that he have ever see .
`` But you be grow quite young again . ''
`` To you , '' say the fairy .
`` Look again . ''
`` You be the Irishwoman who meet me the day I go to Harthover ! ''
And when they look she be neither of them , and yet all of them at once .
`` My name be write in my eye , if you have eye to see it there . ''
And they look into her great , deep , soft eye , and they change again and again into every hue , a the light change in a diamond .
`` Now read my name , '' say she , at last .
And her eye flash , for one moment , clear , white , blaze light : but the child could not read her name ; for they be dazzle , and hide their face in their hand .
`` Not yet , young thing , not yet , '' say she , smile ; and then she turn to Ellie .
`` You may take him home with you now on Sundays , Ellie .
He have win his spur in the great battle , and become fit to go with you and be a man ; because he have do the thing he do not like . ''
So Tom go home with Ellie on Sundays , and sometimes on week-days , too ; and he be now a great man of science , and can plan railroad , and steam-engines , and electric telegraph , and rifle gun , and so forth ; and know everything about everything , except why a hen 's egg do n't turn into a crocodile , and two or three other little thing which no one will know till the come of the Cocqcigrues .
And all this from what he learn when he be a water-baby , underneath the sea .
`` And of course Tom marry Ellie ? ''
My dear child , what a silly notion !
Do n't you know that no one ever marry in a fairy tale , under the rank of a prince or a princess ?
`` And Tom 's dog ? ''
Oh , you may see him any clear night in July ; for the old dog-star be so worn out by the last three hot summer that there have be no dog-days since ; so that they have to take him down and put Tom 's dog up in his place .
Therefore , a new broom sweep clean , we may hope for some warm weather this year .
And that be the end of my story .
MORAL .
And now , my dear little man , what should we learn from this parable ?
We should learn thirty-seven or thirty-nine thing , I be not exactly sure which : but one thing , at least , we may learn , and that be this -- when we see eft in the pond , never to throw stone at them , or catch them with crooked pin , or put them into vivarium with stickleback , that the stickleback may prick them in their poor little stomach , and make them jump out of the glass into somebody 's work-box , and so come to a bad end .
For these eft be nothing else but the water-babies who be stupid and dirty , and will not learn their lesson and keep themselves clean ; and , therefore -LRB- a comparative anatomist will tell you fifty year hence , though they be not learn enough to tell you now -RRB- , their skull grow flat , their jaw grow out , and their brain grow small , and their tail grow long , and they lose all their rib -LRB- which I be sure you would not like to do -RRB- , and their skin grow dirty and spot , and they never get into the clear river , much less into the great wide sea , but hang about in dirty pond , and live in the mud , and eat worm , a they deserve to do .
But that be no reason why you should ill-use them : but only why you should pity them , and be kind to them , and hope that some day they will wake up , and be ashamed of their nasty , dirty , lazy , stupid life , and try to amend , and become something good once more .
For , perhaps , if they do so , then after 379,423 year , nine month , thirteen day , two hour , and twenty-one minute -LRB- for aught that appear to the contrary -RRB- , if they work very hard and wash very hard all that time , their brain may grow big , and their jaw grow small , and their rib come back , and their tail wither off , and they will turn into water-babies again , and perhaps after that into land-babies ; and after that perhaps into grow men .
You know they wo n't ?
Very well , I daresay you know best .
But you see , some folk have a great liking for those poor little eft .
They never do anybody any harm , or could if they try ; and their only fault be , that they do no good -- any more than some thousand of their better .
But what with duck , and what with pike , and what with stickleback , and what with water-beetles , and what with naughty boy , they be `` sae sair hadden doun , '' a the Scotsmen say , that it be a wonder how they live ; and some folk ca n't help hop , with good Bishop Butler , that they may have another chance , to make thing fair and even , somewhere , somewhen , somehow .
Meanwhile , do you learn your lesson , and thank God that you have plenty of cold water to wash in ; and wash in it too , like a true Englishman .
And then , if my story be not true , something well be ; and if I be not quite right , still you will be , as long a you stick to hard work and cold water .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Harriet_Elizabeth_Beecher_Stowe___Uncle_Tom's_Cabin , _Young_Folks'_Edition.txt.out
HAPTER I UNCLE TOM AND LITTLE HARRY ARE SOLD Very many year ago , instead of have servant to wait upon them and work for them , people use to have slave .
These slave be pay no wage .
Their master give them only food and clothes in return for their work .
When any one want servant he go to market to buy them , just a nowadays we buy horse and cow , or even table and chair .
If the poor slave be buy by kind people they would be quite happy .
Then they would work willingly for their master and mistress , and even love them .
But very often cruel people buy slave .
These cruel people use to beat them and be unkind to them in many other way .
It be very wicked to buy and sell human being a if they be cattle .
Yet Christian people do it , and many who be good and kind otherwise think there be no wrong in be cruel to their poor slave .
` They be only black people , ' they say to themselves .
` Black people do not feel thing a we do . '
That be not kind , a black people suffer pain just in the same way a white people do .
One of the sad thing for the poor slave be that they could never long be a happy family all together -- father , mother , and little brother and sister -- because at any time the master might sell the father or the mother or one of the child to some one else .
When this happen those who be leave behind be very sad indeed -- more sad than if their dear one have die .
Uncle Tom be a slave .
He be a very faithful and honest servant , and his master , Mr. Shelby , be kind to him .
Uncle Tom 's wife be call Aunt Chloe .
She be Mr. Shelby 's head cook , and a very good one too , she be .
Nobody in all the country round could make such delicious pie and cake a Aunt Chloe .
Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe live together in a pretty little cottage build of wood , quite close to Mr. Shelby 's big house .
The little cottage be cover with climb rose , and the garden be full of beautiful bright flower and lovely fruit tree .
Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe live happily for many year in their little cottage , or cabin , a it be call .
All day Uncle Tom use to work in the field , while Aunt Chloe be busy in the kitchen at Mr. Shelby 's house .
When even come they both go home to their cottage and their child , and be merry together .
Mr. Shelby be a good man , and kind to his slave , but he be not very careful of his money .
When he have spend all he have , he do not know what to do to get more .
At last he borrow money from a man call Haley , hop to be able to pay it back again some day .
But that day never come .
Haley grow impatient , and say , ` If you do n't pay what you owe me , I will take your house and land , and sell them to pay myself back all the money I have lend to you . '
So Mr. Shelby sell everything he could spare and gather money together in every way he could think of , but still there be not enough .
Then Haley say , ` Give me that slave of yours call Tom -- he be worth a lot of money . '
But Mr. Shelby know that Haley be not a nice man .
He know he do not want Tom for a servant , but only want to sell him again , to make more money .
So Mr. Shelby say , ` No , I ca n't do that .
I never mean to sell any of my slave , least of all Tom .
He have be with me since he be a little boy . '
` Oh very well , ' say Haley , ' I shall sell your house and land , a I say I should . '
Mr. Shelby could not bear to think of that , so he agree to let Haley have Tom .
He make him promise , however , not to sell Tom again except to a kind master .
` Very well , ' say Haley , ` but Tom be n't enough .
I must have another slave . '
Just at this moment a little boy come dance into the room where Mr. Shelby and Haley be talk .
He be a pretty , merry little fellow , the son of a slave call Eliza , who be Mrs. Shelby 's maid .
` There now , ' say Haley , ` give me that little chap , as well a Tom , and we will say no more about the money you owe me . ' '
I ca n't , ' say Mr. Shelby .
` My wife be very fond of Eliza , and would never hear of have Harry sell . '
` Oh , very well , ' say Haley once more , ' I must just sell your house . '
So again Mr. Shelby give in , and Haley go away with the promise that next morning Uncle Tom and little Harry should be give to him , to be his slave .
CHAPTER II ELIZA RUNS AWAY WITH LITTLE HARRY Mr. Shelby be very unhappy because of what he have do .
He know his wife would be very unhappy too , and he do not know how to tell her .
He have to do it that night , however , before she go to bed .
Mrs. Shelby could hardly believe it .
` Oh , you do not mean this , ' she say .
` You must not sell our good Tom and dear little Harry .
Do anything rather than that .
It be a wicked , wicked thing to do .
` There be nothing else I can do , ' say Mr. Shelby . '
I have sell everything I can think of , and at any rate now that Haley have set his heart on have Tom and Harry , he would not take anything or anybody instead . '
Mrs. Shelby cry very much about it , but at last , though she be very , very unhappy she fell asleep .
But some one whom Mr. and Mrs. Shelby never think of be listen to this talk .
Eliza be sit in the next room .
The door be not quite closed , so she could not help hear what be say .
As she listen she grow pale and cold and a terrible look of pain come into her face .
Eliza have have three dear little child , but two of them have die when they be tiny baby .
She love and care for Harry all the more because she have lose the others .
Now he be to be take from her and sell to cruel men , and she would never see him again .
She felt she could not bear it .
Eliza 's husband be call George , and be a slave too .
He do not belong to Mr. Shelby , but to another man , who have a farm quite near .
George and Eliza could not live together a a husband and wife generally do .
Indeed , they hardly ever saw each other .
George 's master be a cruel man , and would not let him come to see his wife .
He be so cruel , and beat George so dreadfully , that the poor slave make up his mind to run away .
He have come that very day to tell Eliza what he mean to do .
As soon a Mr. and Mrs. Shelby stop talk , Eliza creep away to her own room , where little Harry be sleep .
There he lay with his pretty curl around his face .
His rosy mouth be half open , his fat little hand throw out over the bed-clothes , and a smile like a sunbeam upon his face .
` My baby , my sweet-one , ' say Eliza , ` they have sell you .
But mother will save you yet ! '
She do not cry .
She be too sad and sorrowful for that .
Taking a piece of paper and a pencil , she write quickly .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Oh , missis !
dear missis !
do n't think me ungrateful -- do n't think hard of me , anyway !
I hear all you and master say to-night .
I be go to try to save my boy -- you will not blame me I God bless and reward you for all your kindness ! '
Eliza be go to run away .
She gather a few of Harry 's clothes into a bundle , put on her hat and jacket , and go to wake him .
Poor Harry be rather frighten at be wake in the middle of the night , and at see his mother bending over him , with her hat and jacket on .
` What be the matter , mother ? '
he say begin to cry .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Hush , ' she say , ` Harry must n't cry or speak aloud , or they will hear u .
A wicked man be come to take little Harry away from his mother , and carry him ` way off in the dark .
But mother wo n't let him .
She 's go to put on her little boy 's cap and coat , and run off with him , so the ugly man ca n't catch him . '
Harry stop cry at once , and be good and quiet a a little mouse , while his mother dress him .
When he be ready , she lift him in her arm , and creep softly out of the house .
It be a beautiful , clear , starlight night , but very cold , for it be winter-time .
Eliza run quickly to Uncle Tom 's cottage , and tap on the window .
Aunt Chloe be not asleep , so she jump up at once , and open the door .
She be very much astonish to see Eliza stand there with Harry in her arm .
Uncle Tom follow her to the door , and be very much astonish too .
` I 'm run away , Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe -- carry off my child , ' say Eliza .
` Master sell him . '
` Sold him ? '
they both echo , lift up their hand in dismay .
` Yes , sell him , ' say Eliza . '
I hear master tell missis that he have sell my Harry , and you , Uncle Tom .
The man be come to take you away to-morrow . '
At first Tom could hardly believe what he hear .
Then he sink down , and bury his face in his hand .
` The good Lord have pity on u ! '
say Aunt Chloe .
` What have Tom do that master should sell him ? '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` He have n't do anything -- it be n't for that .
Master do n't want to sell ; but he owe this man money .
If he do n't pay him it will end in his have to sell the house and all the slave .
Master say he be sorry .
But missis she talk like an angel .
I 'm a wicked girl to leave her so , but I ca n't help it .
It must be right ; but if it a n't right , the good Lord will forgive me , for I ca n't help do it .
` Tom , ' say Aunt Chloe , ` why do n't you go too ?
There 's time . '
Tom slowly raise his head and look sorrowfully at her .
` No , no , ' he say .
` Let Eliza go .
It be right that she should try to save her boy .
Mas ' r have always trust me , and I ca n't leave him like that .
It be well for me to go alone than for the whole place to be sell .
Mas ' r be n't to blame , Chloe .
He will take care of you and the poor -- ' Tom could say no more .
Big man though he be , he burst into tear , at the thought of leave his wife and dear little child , never to see them any more .
` Aunt Chloe , ' say Eliza , in a minute or two , ' I must go .
I saw my husband to-day .
He tell me he mean to run away soon , because his master be so cruel to him .
Try to send him a message from me .
Tell him I have run away to save our boy .
Tell him to come after me if he can .
Good-bye , good-bye .
God bless you ! '
Then Eliza go out again into the dark night with her little boy in her arm , and Aunt Chloe shut the door softly behind her .
CHAPTER III THE MORNING AFTER Next morning , when it be discover that Eliza have run away with her little boy , there be great excitement and confusion all over the house .
Mrs. Shelby be very glad .
` Thank God ! '
she say . '
I hope Eliza will get right away .
I could not bear to think of Harry be sell to that cruel man . '
Mr. Shelby be angry .
` Haley knew I do n't want to sell the child , ' he say .
` He will blame me for this . '
One person only be quite silent , and that be Aunt Chloe .
She go on , make the breakfast a if she hear and saw nothing of the excitement round her .
All the little black boy belong to the house think it be fine fun .
Very soon , about a dozen young imp be roost , like so many crow , on the railing , wait for Haley to come .
They want to see how angry he would be , when he hear the news .
And he be dreadfully angry .
The little nigger boy think it be grand .
They shout and laugh and make face at him to their heart ' content .
At last Haley become so angry , that Mr. Shelby offer to give him two men to help him to find Eliza .
But these two men , Sam and Andy , know quite well that Mrs. Shelby do not want Eliza to be catch , so they put off a much time a they could .
They let loose their horse and Haley 's too .
Then they frighten and chase them , till they race like mad thing all over the great lawn which surround the house .
Whenever it seem likely that a horse would be catch , Sam run up , wave his hat and shout wildly , ` Now for it !
Cotch him !
Cotch him ! '
This frighten the horse so much that they gallop off faster than before .
Haley rush up and down , shout and use dreadful , naughty word , and stamp with rage all the time .
At last , about twelve o'clock , Sam come rid up with Haley 's horse .
` He 's cotched , ' he say , seemingly very proud of himself . '
I cotched him ! '
Of course , now it be too late to start before dinner .
Besides , the horse be so tired with all their running about , that they have to have a rest .
When at last they do start , Sam lead them by a wrong road .
So the sun be almost set before they arrive at the village where Haley hop to find Eliza .
CHAPTER IV THE CHASE When Eliza leave Uncle Tom 's cabin , she felt very sad and lonely .
She know she be leave all the friend she have ever have behind her .
At first Harry be frighten .
Soon he grow sleepy .
` Mother , I do n't need to keep awake , do I ? '
he say .
` No , my darling , sleep , if you want to . '
` But , mother , if I do get asleep , you wo n't let the bad man take me ? '
` No ! '
