Does he fly , then ? ''
Mowgli sit with his elbow on his knee , look out across the valley at the daylight .
Somewhere down in the wood below a bird be try over in a husky , reedy voice the first few note of his spring song .
It be no more than a shadow of the liquid , tumble call he would be pour later , but Bagheera hear it .
`` I say the Time of New Talk be near , '' growl the panther , switch his tail .
`` I hear , '' Mowgli answer .
`` Bagheera , why dost thou shake all over ?
The sun be warm . ''
`` That be Ferao , the scarlet woodpecker , '' say Bagheera .
`` HE have not forget .
Now I , too , must remember my song , '' and he begin purr and croon to himself , hark back dissatisfy again and again .
`` There be no game afoot , '' say Mowgli .
`` Little Brother , be BOTH thine ear stop ?
That be no killing-word , but my song that I make ready against the need . ''
`` I have forget .
I shall know when the Time of New Talk be here , because then thou and the others all run away and leave me alone . ''
Mowgli speak rather savagely .
`` But , indeed , Little Brother , '' Bagheera begin , `` we do not always -- '' `` I say ye do , '' say Mowgli , shoot out his forefinger angrily .
`` Ye DO run away , and I , who be the Master of the Jungle , must need walk alone .
How be it last season , when I would gather sugar-cane from the field of a Man-Pack ?
I send a runner -- I send thee !
-- to Hathi , bid him to come upon such a night and pluck the sweet grass for me with his trunk . ''
`` He come only two night later , '' say Bagheera , cower a little ; `` and of that long , sweet grass that please thee so he gather more than any Man-cub could eat in all the night of the Rains .
That be no fault of mine . ''
`` He do not come upon the night when I send him the word .
No , he be trumpet and run and roar through the valley in the moonlight .
His trail be like the trail of three elephant , for he would not hide among the tree .
He dance in the moonlight before the house of the Man-Pack .
I saw him , and yet he would not come to me ; and I be the Master of the Jungle ! ''
`` It be the Time of New Talk , '' say the panther , always very humble .
`` Perhaps , Little Brother , thou didst not that time call him by a Master-word ?
Listen to Ferao , and be glad ! ''
Mowgli 's bad temper seem to have boil itself away .
He lay back with his head on his arm , his eye shut .
`` I do not know -- nor do I care , '' he say sleepily .
`` Let u sleep , Bagheera .
My stomach be heavy in me .
Make me a rest for my head . ''
The panther lay down again with a sigh , because he could hear Ferao practising and repractising his song against the Springtime of New Talk , a they say .
In an Indian Jungle the season slide one into the other almost without division .
There seem to be only two -- the wet and the dry ; but if you look closely below the torrent of rain and the cloud of char and dust you will find all four go round in their regular ring .
Spring be the most wonderful , because she have not to cover a clean , bare field with new leaf and flower , but to drive before her and to put away the hanging-on , over-surviving raffle of half-green thing which the gentle winter have suffer to live , and to make the partly-dressed stale earth feel new and young once more .
And this she do so well that there be no spring in the world like the Jungle spring .
There be one day when all thing be tire , and the very smell , a they drift on the heavy air , be old and use .
One can not explain this , but it feel so .
Then there be another day -- to the eye nothing whatever have change -- when all the smell be new and delightful , and the whisker of the Jungle People quiver to their root , and the winter hair come away from their side in long , draggle lock .
Then , perhaps , a little rain fall , and all the tree and the bush and the bamboo and the moss and the juicy-leaved plant wake with a noise of grow that you can almost hear , and under this noise run , day and night , a deep hum .
THAT be the noise of the spring -- a vibrating boom which be neither bee , nor fall water , nor the wind in tree-tops , but the purring of the warm , happy world .
Up to this year Mowgli have always delight in the turn of the season .
It be he who generally saw the first Eye-of-the-Spring deep down among the grass , and the first bank of spring cloud , which be like nothing else in the Jungle .
His voice could be hear in all sort of wet , star-lighted , blossoming place , help the big frog through their chorus , or mock the little upside-down owl that hoot through the white night .
Like all his people , spring be the season he choose for his flittings -- move , for the mere joy of rush through the warm air , thirty , forty , or fifty mile between twilight and the morning star , and come back pant and laugh and wreathe with strange flower .
The Four do not follow him on these wild ringing of the Jungle , but go off to sing song with other wolf .
The Jungle People be very busy in the spring , and Mowgli could hear them grunt and scream and whistle accord to their kind .
Their voice then be different from their voice at other time of the year , and that be one of the reason why spring in the Jungle be call the Time of New Talk .
But that spring , a he tell Bagheera , his stomach be change in him .
Ever since the bamboo shoot turn spotty-brown he have be look forward to the morning when the smell should change .
But when the morning come , and Mor the Peacock , blaze in bronze and blue and gold , cry it aloud all along the misty wood , and Mowgli open his mouth to send on the cry , the word choke between his teeth , and a feeling come over him that begin at his toe and end in his hair -- a feeling of pure unhappiness , so that he look himself over to be sure that he have not tread on a thorn .
Mor cry the new smell , the other bird take it over , and from the rock by the Waingunga he hear Bagheera 's hoarse scream -- something between the scream of an eagle and the neighing of a horse .
There be a yelling and scattering of Bandar-log in the new-budding branch above , and there stand Mowgli , his chest , fill to answer Mor , sink in little gasp a the breath be drive out of it by this unhappiness .
He star all round him , but he could see no more than the mock Bandar-log scud through the tree , and Mor , his tail spread in full splendour , dance on the slope below .
`` The smell have change , '' scream Mor .
`` Good hunting , Little Brother !
Where be thy answer ? ''
`` Little Brother , good hunting ! ''
whistle Chil the Kite and his mate , swoop down together .
The two baffed under Mowgli 's nose so close that a pinch of downy white feather brush away .
A light spring rain -- elephant-rain they call it -- drive across the Jungle in a belt half a mile wide , leave the new leaf wet and nod behind , and die out in a double rainbow and a light roll of thunder .
The spring hum break out for a minute , and be silent , but all the Jungle Folk seem to be give tongue at once .
All except Mowgli .
`` I have eat good food , '' he say to himself .
`` I have drink good water .
Nor do my throat burn and grow small , a it do when I bite the blue-spotted root that Oo the Turtle say be clean food .
But my stomach be heavy , and I have give very bad talk to Bagheera and others , people of the Jungle and my people .
Now , too , I be hot and now I be cold , and now I be neither hot nor cold , but angry with that which I can not see .
Huhu !
It be time to make a running !
To-night I will cross the range ; yes , I will make a spring run to the Marshes of the North , and back again .
I have hunt too easily too long .
The Four shall come with me , for they grow as fat a white grub . ''
He call , but never one of the Four answer .
They be far beyond earshot , sing over the spring song -- the Moon and Sambhur Songs -- with the wolf of the pack ; for in the spring-time the Jungle People make very little difference between the day and the night .
He give the sharp , barking note , but his only answer be the mock maiou of the little spotted tree-cat winding in and out among the branch for early bird ' nest .
At this he shake all over with rage , and half draw his knife .
Then he become very haughty , though there be no one to see him , and stalk severely down the hillside , chin up and eyebrows down .
But never a single one of his people ask him a question , for they be all too busy with their own affair .
`` Yes , '' say Mowgli to himself , though in his heart he know that he have no reason .
`` Let the Red Dhole come from the Dekkan , or the Red Flower dance among the bamboo , and all the Jungle run whine to Mowgli , call him great elephant-names .
But now , because Eye-of-the-Spring be red , and Mor , forsooth , must show his naked leg in some spring dance , the Jungle go mad a Tabaqui ... By the Bull that buy me !
be I the Master of the Jungle , or be I not ?
Be silent !
What do ye here ? ''
A couple of young wolf of the Pack be canter down a path , look for open ground in which to fight .
-LRB- You will remember that the Law of the Jungle forbids fight where the Pack can see . -RRB-
Their neck-bristles be as stiff a wire , and they bay furiously , crouch for the first grapple .
Mowgli leap forward , catch one outstretched throat in either hand , expect to fling the creature backward a he have often do in game or Pack hunt .
But he have never before interfere with a spring fight .
The two leap forward and dash him aside , and without word to waste roll over and over close lock .
Mowgli be on his foot almost before he fell , his knife and his white teeth be bar , and at that minute he would have kill both for no reason but that they be fight when he wish them to be quiet , although every wolf have full right under the Law to fight .
He dance round them with lower shoulder and quiver hand , ready to send in a double blow when the first flurry of the scuffle should be over ; but while he wait the strength seem to ebb from his body , the knife-point lower , and he sheathe the knife and watch .
`` I have surely eat poison , '' he sigh at last .
`` Since I break up the Council with the Red Flower -- since I kill Shere Khan -- none of the Pack could fling me aside .
And these be only tail-wolves in the Pack , little hunter !
My strength be go from me , and presently I shall die .
Oh , Mowgli , why dost thou not kill them both ? ''
The fight go on till one wolf run away , and Mowgli be leave alone on the torn and bloody ground , look now at his knife , and now at his leg and arm , while the feeling of unhappiness he have never know before cover him a water cover a log .
He kill early that even and eat but little , so a to be in good fettle for his spring running , and he eat alone because all the Jungle People be away sing or fight .
It be a perfect white night , a they call it .
All green thing seem to have make a month 's growth since the morning .
The branch that be yellow-leaved the day before dripped sap when Mowgli break it .
The moss curl deep and warm over his foot , the young grass have no cutting edge , and all the voice of the Jungle boom like one deep harp-string touch by the moon -- the Moon of New Talk , who splash her light full on rock and pool , slip it between trunk and creeper , and sift it through a million leaf .
Forgetting his unhappiness , Mowgli sing aloud with pure delight a he settle into his stride .
It be more like fly than anything else , for he have choose the long downward slope that lead to the Northern Marshes through the heart of the main Jungle , where the springy ground deaden the fall of his foot .
A man-taught man would have pick his way with many stumble through the cheating moonlight , but Mowgli 's muscle , train by year of experience , bore him up a though he be a feather .
When a rotten log or a hidden stone turn under his foot he save himself , never check his pace , without effort and without thought .
When he tire of ground-going he throw up his hand monkey-fashion to the near creeper , and seem to float rather than to climb up into the thin branch , whence he would follow a tree-road till his mood change , and he shot downward in a long , leafy curve to the level again .
There be still , hot hollow surround by wet rock where he could hardly breathe for the heavy scent of the night flower and the bloom along the creeper bud ; dark avenues where the moonlight lay in belt as regular a checkered marble in a church aisle ; thicket where the wet young growth stand breast-high about him and throw it arm round his waist ; and hilltop crown with broken rock , where he leap from stone to stone above the lair of the frightened little fox .
He would hear , very faint and far off , the chug-drug of a boar sharpen his tusk on a bole ; and would come across the great gray brute all alone , scribe and rend the bark of a tall tree , his mouth drip with foam , and his eye blaze like fire .
Or he would turn aside to the sound of clash horn and hiss grunt , and dash past a couple of furious sambhur , stagger to and fro with lowered head , strip with blood that show black in the moonlight .
Or at some rush ford he would hear Jacala the Crocodile bellowing like a bull , or disturb a twined knot of the Poison People , but before they could strike he would be away and across the glistening shingle , and deep in the Jungle again .
So he run , sometimes shout , sometimes sing to himself , the happy thing in all the Jungle that night , till the smell of the flower warn him that he be near the marsh , and those lay far beyond his farthest hunting-grounds .
Here , again , a man-trained man would have sink overhead in three stride , but Mowgli 's foot have eye in them , and they pass him from tussock to tussock and clump to quake clump without ask help from the eye in his head .
He run out to the middle of the swamp , disturb the duck a he run , and sit down on a moss-coated tree-trunk lap in the black water .
The marsh be awake all round him , for in the spring the Bird People sleep very lightly , and company of them be come or go the night through .
But no one take any notice of Mowgli sit among the tall reed hum song without word , and look at the sol of his hard brown foot in case of neglect thorn .
All his unhappiness seem to have be leave behind in his own Jungle , and he be just begin a full-throat song when it come back again -- ten time bad than before .
This time Mowgli be frighten .
`` It be here also ! ''
he say half aloud .
`` It have follow me , '' and he look over his shoulder to see whether the It be not stand behind him .
`` There be no one here . ''
The night noise of the marsh go on , but never a bird or beast spoke to him , and the new feeling of misery grow .
`` I have surely eat poison , '' he say in an awe-stricken voice .
`` It must be that carelessly I have eat poison , and my strength be go from me .
I be afraid -- and yet it be not I that be afraid -- Mowgli be afraid when the two wolf fought .
Akela , or even Phao , would have silence them ; yet Mowgli be afraid .
That be true sign I have eat poison ... But what do they care in the Jungle ?
They sing and howl and fight , and run in company under the moon , and I -- Hai-mai !
-- I be die in the marsh , of that poison which I have eat . ''
He be so sorry for himself that he nearly weep .
`` And after , '' he go on , `` they will find me lie in the black water .
Nay , I will go back to my own Jungle , and I will die upon the Council Rock , and Bagheera , whom I love , if he be not scream in the valley -- Bagheera , perhaps , may watch by what be leave for a little , l Chil use me a he use Akela . ''
A large , warm tear splash down on his knee , and , miserable a he be , Mowgli felt happy that he be so miserable , if you can understand that upside-down sort of happiness .
`` As Chil the Kite use Akela , '' he repeat , `` on the night I save the Pack from Red Dog . ''
He be quiet for a little , thinking of the last word of the Lone Wolf , which you , of course , remember .
`` Now Akela say to me many foolish thing before he die , for when we die our stomachs change .
He say ... None the less , I AM of the Jungle ! ''
In his excitement , a he remember the fight on Waingunga bank , he shout the last word aloud , and a wild buffalo-cow among the reed sprang to her knee , snorting , `` Man ! ''
`` Uhh ! ''
say Mysa the Wild Buffalo -LRB- Mowgli could hear him turn in his wallow -RRB- , `` THAT be no man .
It be only the hairless wolf of the Seeonee Pack .
On such night run he to and fro . ''
`` Uhh ! ''
say the cow , drop her head again to graze , `` I think it be Man . ''
`` I say no .
Oh , Mowgli , be it danger ? ''
low Mysa .
`` Oh , Mowgli , be it danger ? ''
the boy call back mockingly .
`` That be all Mysa think for : Is it danger ?
But for Mowgli , who go to and fro in the Jungle by night , watching , what do ye care ? ''
`` How loud he cry ! ''
say the cow .
`` Thus do they cry , '' Mysa answer contemptuously , `` who , have tear up the grass , know not how to eat it . ''
`` For less than this , '' Mowgli groan to himself , `` for less than this even last Rains I have prick Mysa out of his wallow , and ride him through the swamp on a rush halter . ''
He stretch a hand to break one of the feathery reed , but draw it back with a sigh .
Mysa go on steadily chew the cud , and the long grass rip where the cow graze .
`` I will not die HERE , '' he say angrily .
`` Mysa , who be of one blood with Jacala and the pig , would see me .
Let u go beyond the swamp and see what come .
Never have I run such a spring run -- hot and cold together .
Up , Mowgli ! ''
He could not resist the temptation of steal across the reed to Mysa and prick him with the point of his knife .
The great drip bull break out of his wallow like a shell exploding , while Mowgli laugh till he sit down .
`` Say now that the hairless wolf of the Seeonee Pack once herd thee , Mysa , '' he call .
`` Wolf !
THOU ? ''
the bull snort , stamp in the mud .
`` All the jungle know thou wast a herder of tame cattle -- such a man 's brat a shout in the dust by the crop yonder .
THOU of the Jungle !
What hunter would have crawl like a snake among the leech , and for a muddy jest -- a jackal 's jest -- have sham me before my cow ?
Come to firm ground , and I will -- I will ... '' Mysa froth at the mouth , for Mysa have nearly the bad temper of any one in the Jungle .
Mowgli watch him puff and blow with eye that never change .
When he could make himself hear through the pattering mud , he say : `` What Man-Pack lair here by the marsh , Mysa ?
This be new Jungle to me . ''
`` Go north , then , '' roar the angry bull , for Mowgli have prick him rather sharply .
`` It be a naked cow-herd 's jest .
Go and tell them at the village at the foot of the marsh . ''
`` The Man-Pack do not love jungle-tales , nor do I think , Mysa , that a scratch more or less on thy hide be any matter for a council .
But I will go and look at this village .
Yes , I will go .
Softly now .
It be not every night that the Master of the Jungle come to herd thee . ''
He step out to the shiver ground on the edge of the marsh , well know that Mysa would never charge over it and laugh , a he run , to think of the bull 's anger .
`` My strength be not altogether go , '' he say .
`` It may be that the poison be not to the bone .
There be a star sit low yonder . ''
He look at it between his half-shut hand .
`` By the Bull that buy me , it be the Red Flower -- the Red Flower that I lay beside before -- before I come even to the first Seeonee Pack !
Now that I have see , I will finish the running . ''
The marsh end in a broad plain where a light twinkle .
It be a long time since Mowgli have concern himself with the doings of men , but this night the glimmer of the Red Flower draw him forward .
`` I will look , '' say he , `` a I do in the old day , and I will see how far the Man-Pack have change . ''
Forgetting that he be no longer in his own Jungle , where he could do what he please , he tread carelessly through the dew-loaded grass till he come to the hut where the light stood .
Three or four yelp dog give tongue , for he be on the outskirt of a village .
`` Ho ! ''
say Mowgli , sit down noiselessly , after send back a deep wolf-growl that silence the cur .
`` What come will come .
Mowgli , what hast thou to do any more with the lair of the Man-Pack ? ''
He rub his mouth , remember where a stone have strike it year ago when the other Man-Pack have cast him out .
The door of the hut open , and a woman stand peer out into the darkness .
A child cry , and the woman say over her shoulder , `` Sleep .
It be but a jackal that wake the dog .
In a little time morning come . ''
Mowgli in the grass begin to shake a though he have fever .
He know that voice well , but to make sure he cry softly , surprise to find how man 's talk come back , `` Messua !
O Messua ! ''
`` Who call ? ''
say the woman , a quiver in her voice .
`` Hast thou forgotten ? ''
say Mowgli .
His throat be dry a he speak .
`` If it be THOU , what name do I give thee ?
Say ! ''
She have half shut the door , and her hand be clutch at her breast .
`` Nathoo !
Ohe , Nathoo ! ''
say Mowgli , for , a you remember , that be the name Messua give him when he first come to the Man-Pack .
`` Come , my son , '' she call , and Mowgli step into the light , and look full at Messua , the woman who have be good to him , and whose life he have save from the Man-Pack so long before .
She be old , and her hair be gray , but her eye and her voice have not change .
Woman-like , she expect to find Mowgli where she have leave him , and her eye travel upward in a puzzled way from his chest to his head , that touch the top of the door .
`` My son , '' she stammer ; and then , sink to his foot : `` But it be no longer my son .
It be a Godling of the Woods !
Ahai ! ''
As he stand in the red light of the oil-lamp , strong , tall , and beautiful , his long black hair sweep over his shoulder , the knife swing at his neck , and his head crown with a wreath of white jasmine , he might easily have be mistake for some wild god of a jungle legend .
The child half asleep on a cot sprang up and shriek aloud with terror .
Messua turn to soothe him , while Mowgli stand still , look in at the water-jars and the cooking-pots , the grain-bin , and all the other human belonging that he find himself remember so well .
`` What wilt thou eat or drink ? ''
Messua murmur .
`` This be all thine .
We owe our life to thee .
But art thou him I call Nathoo , or a Godling , indeed ? ''
`` I be Nathoo , '' say Mowgli , `` I be very far from my own place .
I saw this light , and come hither .
I do not know thou wast here . ''
`` After we come to Khanhiwara , '' Messua say timidly , `` the English would have help u against those villager that seek to burn u .
Rememberest thou ? ''
`` Indeed , I have not forget . ''
`` But when the English Law be make ready , we go to the village of those evil people , and it be no more to be find . ''
`` That also I remember , '' say Mowgli , with a quiver of his nostril .
`` My man , therefore , take service in the field , and at last -- for , indeed , he be a strong man -- we hold a little land here .
It be not so rich a the old village , but we do not need much -- we two . ''
`` Where be he the man that dig in the dirt when he be afraid on that night ? ''
`` He be dead -- a year . ''
`` And he ? ''
Mowgli point to the child .
`` My son that be bear two Rains ago .
If thou art a Godling , give him the Favour of the Jungle , that he may be safe among thy -- thy people , a we be safe on that night . ''
She lift up the child , who , forget his fright , reach out to play with the knife that hung on Mowgli 's chest , and Mowgli put the little finger aside very carefully .
`` And if thou art Nathoo whom the tiger carry away , '' Messua go on , choke , `` he be then thy young brother .
Give him an elder brother 's blessing . ''
`` Hai-mai !
What do I know of the thing call a blessing ?
I be neither a Godling nor his brother , and -- O mother , mother , my heart be heavy in me . ''
He shiver a he set down the child .
`` Like enough , '' say Messua , bustle among the cooking-pots .
`` This come of run about the marsh by night .
Beyond question , the fever have soak thee to the marrow . ''
Mowgli smile a little at the idea of anything in the Jungle hurt him .
`` I will make a fire , and thou shalt drink warm milk .
Put away the jasmine wreath : the smell be heavy in so small a place . ''
Mowgli sit down , mutter , with his face in his hand .
All manner of strange feeling that he have never felt before be run over him , exactly a though he have be poison , and he felt dizzy and a little sick .
He drink the warm milk in long gulp , Messua pat him on the shoulder from time to time , not quite sure whether he be her son Nathoo of the long ago day , or some wonderful Jungle be , but glad to feel that he be at least flesh and blood .
`` Son , '' she say at last , -- her eye be full of pride , -- `` have any told thee that thou art beautiful beyond all men ? ''
`` Hah ? ''
say Mowgli , for naturally he have never hear anything of the kind .
Messua laugh softly and happily .
The look in his face be enough for her .
`` I be the first , then ?
It be right , though it come seldom , that a mother should tell her son these good thing .
Thou art very beautiful .
Never have I look upon such a man . ''
Mowgli twist his head and try to see over his own hard shoulder , and Messua laugh again so long that Mowgli , not know why , be force to laugh with her , and the child run from one to the other , laugh too .
`` Nay , thou must not mock thy brother , '' say Messua , catch him to her breast .
`` When thou art one-half a fair we will marry thee to the young daughter of a king , and thou shalt ride great elephant . ''
Mowgli could not understand one word in three of the talk here ; the warm milk be take effect on him after his long run , so he curl up and in a minute be deep asleep , and Messua put the hair back from his eye , throw a cloth over him , and be happy .
Jungle-fashion , he sleep out the rest of that night and all the next day ; for his instinct , which never wholly slept , warn him there be nothing to fear .
He wake at last with a bound that shake the hut , for the cloth over his face make him dream of trap ; and there he stand , his hand on his knife , the sleep all heavy in his rolling eye , ready for any fight .
Messua laugh , and set the evening meal before him .
There be only a few coarse cake bake over the smoky fire , some rice , and a lump of sour preserved tamarind -- just enough to go on with till he could get to his evening kill .
The smell of the dew in the marsh make him hungry and restless .
He want to finish his spring running , but the child insist on sit in his arm , and Messua would have it that his long , blue-black hair must be comb out .
So she sing , a she comb , foolish little baby-songs , now call Mowgli her son , and now beg him to give some of his jungle power to the child .
The hut door be close , but Mowgli hear a sound he know well , and saw Messua 's jaw drop with horror a a great gray paw come under the bottom of the door , and Gray Brother outside whine a muffled and penitent whine of anxiety and fear .
`` Out and wait !
Ye would not come when I call , '' say Mowgli in Jungle-talk , without turn his head , and the great gray paw disappear .
`` Do not -- do not bring thy -- thy servant with thee , '' say Messua .
`` I -- we have always live at peace with the Jungle . ''
`` It be peace , '' say Mowgli , rise .
`` Think of that night on the road to Khanhiwara .
There be score of such folk before thee and behind thee .
But I see that even in springtime the Jungle People do not always forget .
Mother , I go . ''
Messua draw aside humbly -- he be indeed a wood-god , she think ; but a his hand be on the door the mother in her make her throw her arm round Mowgli 's neck again and again .
`` Come back ! ''
she whisper .
`` Son or no son , come back , for I love thee -- Look , he too grieve . ''
The child be cry because the man with the shiny knife be go away .
`` Come back again , '' Messua repeat .
`` By night or by day this door be never shut to thee . ''
Mowgli 's throat work a though the cord in it be be pull , and his voice seem to be drag from it a he answer , `` I will surely come back . ''
`` And now , '' he say , a he put by the head of the fawn wolf on the threshold , `` I have a little cry against thee , Gray Brother .
Why come ye not all four when I call so long ago ? ''
`` So long ago ?
It be but last night .
I -- we -- be sing in the Jungle the new song , for this be the Time of New Talk .
Rememberest thou ? ''
`` Truly , truly . ''
`` And as soon a the song be sung , '' Gray Brother go on earnestly , `` I follow thy trail .
I run from all the others and follow hot-foot .
But , O Little Brother , what hast THOU do , eat and sleep with the Man-Pack ? ''
`` If ye have come when I call , this have never be , '' say Mowgli , run much faster .
`` And now what be to be ? ''
say Gray Brother .
Mowgli be go to answer when a girl in a white cloth come down some path that lead from the outskirt of the village .
Gray Brother drop out of sight at once , and Mowgli back noiselessly into a field of high-springing crop .
He could almost have touch her with his hand when the warm , green stalk close before his face and he disappear like a ghost .
The girl scream , for she think she have see a spirit , and then she give a deep sigh .
Mowgli part the stalk with his hand and watch her till she be out of sight .
`` And now I do not know , '' he say , sigh in his turn .
`` WHY do ye not come when I call ? ''
`` We follow thee -- we follow thee , '' Gray Brother mumble , lick at Mowgli 's heel .
`` We follow thee always , except in the Time of the New Talk . ''
`` And would ye follow me to the Man-Pack ? ''
Mowgli whisper .
`` Did I not follow thee on the night our old Pack cast thee out ?
Who wake thee lying among the crop ? ''
`` Ay , but again ? ''
`` Have I not follow thee to-night ? ''
`` Ay , but again and again , and it may be again , Gray Brother ? ''
Gray Brother be silent .
When he speak he growl to himself , `` The Black One speak truth . ''
`` And he say ? ''
`` Man go to Man at the last .
Raksha , our mother , say -- '' `` So also say Akela on the night of Red Dog , '' Mowgli mutter .
`` So also say Kaa , who be wise than u all . ''
`` What dost thou say , Gray Brother ? ''
`` They cast thee out once , with bad talk .
They cut thy mouth with stone .
They send Buldeo to slay thee .
They would have throw thee into the Red Flower .
Thou , and not I , hast say that they be evil and senseless .
Thou , and not I -- I follow my own people -- didst let in the Jungle upon them .
Thou , and not I , didst make song against them more bitter even than our song against Red Dog . ''
`` I ask thee what THOU sayest ? ''
They be talk a they run .
Gray Brother canter on a while without reply , and then he say , -- between bound and bound a it be , -- `` Man-cub -- Master of the Jungle -- Son of Raksha , Lair-brother to me -- though I forget for a little while in the spring , thy trail be my trail , thy lair be my lair , thy kill be my kill , and thy death-fight be my death-fight .
I speak for the Three .
But what wilt thou say to the Jungle ? ''
`` That be well think .
Between the sight and the kill it be not good to wait .
Go before and cry them all to the Council Rock , and I will tell them what be in my stomach .
But they may not come -- in the Time of New Talk they may forget me . ''
`` Hast thou , then , forget nothing ? ''
snapped Gray Brother over his shoulder , a he lay himself down to gallop , and Mowgli follow , think .
At any other season the news would have call all the Jungle together with bristle neck , but now they be busy hunt and fight and kill and singing .
From one to another Gray Brother run , cry , `` The Master of the Jungle go back to Man !
Come to the Council Rock . ''
And the happy , eager People only answer , `` He will return in the summer heat .
The Rains will drive him to lair .
Run and sing with u , Gray Brother . ''
`` But the Master of the Jungle go back to Man , '' Gray Brother would repeat .
`` Eee -- Yoawa ?
Is the Time of New Talk any less sweet for that ? ''
they would reply .
So when Mowgli , heavy-hearted , come up through the well-remembered rock to the place where he have be bring into the Council , he find only the Four , Baloo , who be nearly blind with age , and the heavy , cold-blooded Kaa coil around Akela 's empty seat .
`` Thy trail end here , then , Manling ? ''
say Kaa , a Mowgli throw himself down , his face in his hand .
`` Cry thy cry .
We be of one blood , thou and I -- man and snake together . ''
`` Why do I not die under Red Dog ? ''
the boy moan .
`` My strength be go from me , and it be not any poison .
By night and by day I hear a double step upon my trail .
When I turn my head it be a though one have hide himself from me that instant .
I go to look behind the tree and he be not there .
I call and none cry again ; but it be a though one listen and keep back the answer .
I lie down , but I do not rest .
I run the spring running , but I be not make still .
I bathe , but I be not make cool .
The kill sicken me , but I have no heart to fight except I kill .
The Red Flower be in my body , my bone be water -- and -- I know not what I know . ''
`` What need of talk ? ''
say Baloo slowly , turn his head to where Mowgli lay .
`` Akela by the river say it , that Mowgli should drive Mowgli back to the Man-Pack .
I say it .
But who listen now to Baloo ?
Bagheera -- where be Bagheera this night ?
-- he know also .
It be the Law . ''
`` When we meet at Cold Lairs , Manling , I know it , '' say Kaa , turn a little in his mighty coil .
`` Man go to Man at the last , though the Jungle do not cast him out . ''
The Four look at one another and at Mowgli , puzzle but obedient .
`` The Jungle do not cast me out , then ? ''
Mowgli stammer .
Gray Brother and the Three growl furiously , begin , `` So long a we live none shall dare -- '' But Baloo check them .
`` I teach thee the Law .
It be for me to speak , '' he say ; `` and , though I can not now see the rock before me , I see far .
Little Frog , take thine own trail ; make thy lair with thine own blood and pack and people ; but when there be need of foot or tooth or eye , or a word carry swiftly by night , remember , Master of the Jungle , the Jungle be thine at call . ''
`` The Middle Jungle be thine also , '' say Kaa .
`` I speak for no small people . ''
`` Hai-mai , my brother , '' cry Mowgli , throw up his arm with a sob .
`` I know not what I know !
I would not go ; but I be draw by both foot .
How shall I leave these night ? ''
`` Nay , look up , Little Brother , '' Baloo repeat .
`` There be no shame in this hunting .
When the honey be eat we leave the empty hive . ''
`` Having cast the skin , '' say Kaa , `` we may not creep into it afresh .
It be the Law . ''
`` Listen , dear of all to me , '' say Baloo .
There be neither word nor will here to hold thee back .
Look up !
Who may question the Master of the Jungle ?
I saw thee playing among the white pebble yonder when thou wast a little frog ; and Bagheera , that buy thee for the price of a young bull newly kill , saw thee also .
Of that Looking Over we two only remain ; for Raksha , thy lair-mother , be dead with thy lair-father ; the old Wolf-Pack be long since dead ; thou knowest whither Shere Khan go , and Akela die among the dhole , where , but for thy wisdom and strength , the second Seeonee Pack would also have die .
There remain nothing but old bone .
It be no longer the Man-cub that ask leave of his Pack , but the Master of the Jungle that change his trail .
Who shall question Man in his way ? ''
`` But Bagheera and the Bull that buy me , '' say Mowgli .
`` I would not -- '' His word be cut short by a roar and a crash in the thicket below , and Bagheera , light , strong , and terrible a always , stand before him .
`` Therefore , '' he say , stretch out a drip right paw , `` I do not come .
It be a long hunt , but he lie dead in the bush now -- a bull in his second year -- the Bull that free thee , Little Brother .
All debt be pay now .
For the rest , my word be Baloo 's word . ''
He lick Mowgli 's foot .
`` Remember , Bagheera love thee , '' he cry , and bound away .
At the foot of the hill he cry again long and loud , `` Good hunting on a new trail , Master of the Jungle !
Remember , Bagheera love thee . ''
`` Thou hast heard , '' say Baloo .
`` There be no more .
Go now ; but first come to me .
O wise Little Frog , come to me ! ''
`` It be hard to cast the skin , '' say Kaa a Mowgli sob and sob , with his head on the blind bear 's side and his arm round his neck , while Baloo try feebly to lick his foot .
`` The star be thin , '' say Gray Brother , snuff at the dawn wind .
`` Where shall we lair to-day ?
for from now , we follow new trail . ''
***** And this be the last of the Mowgli story .
THE OUTSONG -LSB- This be the song that Mowgli hear behind him in the Jungle till he come to Messua 's door again . -RSB-
Baloo For the sake of him who show One wise Frog the Jungle-Road , Keep the Law the Man-Pack make -- For thy blind old Baloo 's sake !
Clean or taint , hot or stale , Hold it a it be the Trail , Through the day and through the night , Questing neither leave nor right .
For the sake of him who love Thee beyond all else that move , When thy Pack would make thee pain , Say : `` Tabaqui sings again . ''
When thy Pack would work thee ill , Say : `` Shere Khan be yet to kill . ''
When the knife be draw to slay , Keep the Law and go thy way .
-LRB- Root and honey , palm and spathe , Guard a cub from harm and scathe ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
Kaa Anger be the egg of Fear -- Only lidless eye be clear .
Cobra-poison none may leech .
Even so with Cobra-speech .
Open talk shall call to thee Strength , whose mate be Courtesy .
Send no lunge beyond thy length ; Lend no rotten bough thy strength .
Gauge thy gape with buck or goat , Lest thine eye should choke thy throat , After gorge , wouldst thou sleep ?
Look thy den be hid and deep , Lest a wrong , by thee forgot , Draw thy killer to the spot .
East and West and North and South , Wash thy hide and close thy mouth .
-LRB- Pit and rift and blue pool-brim , Middle-Jungle follow him ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
Bagheera In the cage my life begin ; Well I know the worth of Man .
By the Broken Lock that free -- Man-cub , ` ware the Man-cub 's breed !
Scenting-dew or starlight pale , Choose no tangled tree-cat trail .
Pack or council , hunt or den , Cry no truce with Jackal-Men .
Feed them silence when they say : `` Come with u an easy way . ''
Feed them silence when they seek Help of thine to hurt the weak .
Make no banaar 's boast of skill ; Hold thy peace above the kill .
Let nor call nor song nor sign Turn thee from thy hunting-line .
-LRB- Morning mist or twilight clear , Serve him , Wardens of the Deer ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Blacky_the_Crow.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Blacky The Crow Makes A Discovery Blacky the Crow be always watch for thing not intend for his sharp eye .
The result be that he get into no end of trouble which he could avoid .
In this respect he be just like his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Between them they see a great deal with which they have no business and which it would be good for them not to see .
Now Blacky the Crow find it no easy matter to pick up a living when snow cover the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and ice bind the Big River and the Smiling Pool .
He have to use his sharp eye for all they be worth in order to find enough to fill his stomach , and he will eat anything in the way of food that he can swallow .
Often he travel long distance look for food , but at night he always come back to the same place in the Green Forest , to sleep in company with others of his family .
Blacky dearly love company , particularly at night , and about the time jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be begin to think about his bed behind the Purple Hills , you will find Blacky head for a certain part of the Green Forest where he know he will have neighbor of his own kind .
Peter Rabbit say that it be because Blacky 's conscience trouble him so that he do n't dare sleep alone , but Happy Jack Squirrel say that Blacky have n't any conscience .
You can believe just which you please , though I suspect that neither of them really know .
As I have say , Blacky be quite a traveler at this time of year , and sometimes his search for food take him to out-of-the-way place .
One day toward the very last of winter , the notion enter his black head that he would have a look in a certain lonesome corner of the Green Forest where once upon a time Redtail the Hawk have live .
Blacky know well enough that Redtail be n't there now ; he have go south in the fell and would n't be back until he be sure that Mistress Spring have arrive on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Like the black imp he be , Blacky fly over the tree-tops , his sharp eye watch for something interesting below .
Presently he saw ahead of him the old nest of Red-tail .
He know all about that nest .
He have visit it before when Red-tail be away .
Still it might be worth another visit .
You never can tell what you may find in old house .
Now , of course , Blacky know perfectly well that Redtail be mile and mile , hundred of mile away , and so there be nothing to fear from him .
But Blacky learn ever so long ago that there be nothing like make sure that there be no danger .
So , instead of fly straight to that old nest , he first fly over the tree so that he could look down into it .
Right away he saw something that make him gasp and blink his eye .
It be quite large and white , and it look -- it look very much indeed like an egg !
Do you wonder that Blacky gasp and blink ?
Here be snow on the ground , and Rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost have give no hint that they be even think of go back to the Far North .
The idea of any one laying an egg at this time of year !
Blacky fly over to a tall pine-tree to think it over .
`` Must be it be a little lump of snow , '' think he .
`` Yet if ever I saw an egg , that look like one .
Jumping grasshopper , how good an egg would taste right now ! ''
You know Blacky have a weakness for egg .
The more he think about it , the hungrier he grow .
Several time he almost make up his mind to fly straight over there and make sure , but he do n't quite dare .
If it be an egg , it must belong to somebody , and perhaps it would be best to find out who .
Suddenly Blacky shake himself .
`` I must be dream , '' say he .
`` There could n't , there just could n't be an egg at this time of year , or in that old tumble-down nest !
I 'll just fly away and forget it . ''
So he fly away , but he could n't forget it .
He keep thinking of it all day , and when he go to sleep that night he make up his mind to have another look at that old nest .
CHAPTER II : Blacky Makes Sure `` As true a ever I 've caw a caw That be a new-laid egg I saw . ''
`` What be you talk about ? ''
demand Sammy Jay , come up just in time to hear the last part of what Blacky the Crow be mumble to himself .
`` Oh nothing , Cousin , nothing at all , '' reply Blacky .
`` I be just talk foolishness to myself . ''
Sammy look at him sharply .
`` You be n't feel sick , be you , Cousin Blacky ? ''
he ask .
`` Must be something the matter with you when you begin talk about new-laid egg , when everything 's cover with snow and ice .
Foolishness be no name for it .
Whoever heard of such a thing a a new-laid egg this time of year . ''
`` Nobody , I guess , '' reply Blacky .
`` I tell you I be just talk foolishness .
You see , I 'm so hungry that I just get to think what I 'd have if I could have anything I want .
That make me think of egg , and I try to think just how I would feel if I should suddenly see a great big egg right in front of me .
I guess I must have say something about it . ''
`` I guess you must have .
It be n't egg time yet , and it wo n't be for a long time .
Take my advice and just forget about impossible thing .
I 'm go over to Farmer Brown 's corncrib .
Corn may not be as good a egg , but it be very good and very filling .
Better come along , '' say Sammy .
`` Not this morning , thank you .
Some other time , perhaps , '' reply Blacky .
He watch Sammy disappear through the tree .
Then he fly to the top of the tall pine-tree to make sure that no one be about .
When he be quite sure that no one be watch him , he spread his wing and head for the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
`` I 'm foolish .
I know I 'm foolish , '' he mutter .
`` But I 've just get to have another look in that old nest of Redtail the Hawk .
I just ca n't get it out of my head that that be an egg , a great , big , white egg , that I saw there yesterday .
It wo n't do any harm to have another look , anyway . ''
Straight toward the tree in which be the great tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk he fly , and a he draw near , he fly high , for Blacky be too shrewd and smart to take any chance .
Not that he think that there could be any danger there ; but you never can tell , and it be always the part of wisdom to be on the safe side .
As he pass over the top of the tree , he look down eagerly .
Just imagine how he felt when instead of one , he saw two white thing in the old nest -- two white thing that look for all the world like egg !
The day before there have be but one ; now there be two .
That settle it in Blacky 's mind ; they be egg !
They could n't be anything else .
Blacky keep right on fly .
Somehow he do n't dare stop just then .
He be too much excite by what he have discover to think clearly .
He have get to have time to get his wit together .
Whoever have lay those egg be big and strong .
He felt sure of that .
It must be some one a great deal big than himself , and he be of no mind to get into trouble , even for a dinner of fresh egg .
He must first find out whose they be ; then he would know good what to do .
He felt sure that no one else know about them , and he know that they could n't run away .
So he keep right on fly until he reach a certain tall pine-tree where he could sit and think without be disturb .
`` Eggs ! ''
he mutter .
`` Real egg !
Now who under the sun can have move into Redtail 's old house ?
And what can they mean by lay egg before Mistress Spring have even send word that she have start ?
It 's too much for me .
It certainly be too much for me . ''
CHAPTER III : Blacky Finds Out Who Owns The Eggs Two big white egg in a tumbledown nest , and snow and ice everywhere !
Did ever anybody hear of such a thing before ?
`` Would n't believe it , if I have n't see it with my own eye , '' mutter Blacky the Crow .
`` Have to believe them .
If I ca n't believe them , it 's of no use to try to believe anything in this world .
As sure a I sit here , that old nest have two egg in it .
Whoever lay them must be crazy to start housekeep at this time of year .
I must find out whose egg they be and then -- '' Blacky do n't finish , but there be a hungry look in his eye that would have tell any who saw it , have there be any to see it , that he have a use for those egg .
But there be none to see it , and he take the great care that there should be none to see him when he once again start for a certain lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
`` First I 'll make sure that the egg be still there , '' think he , and fly high above the tree top , so that a he pass over the tree in which be the old nest of Red-tail the Hawk , he might look down into it .
To have see him , you would never have guess that he be look for anything in particular .
He seem to be just fly over on his way to some distant place .
If the egg be still there , he mean to come back and hide in the top of a near-by pine-tree to watch until he be sure that he might safely steal those egg , or to find out whose they be .
Blacky 's heart beat fast with excitement a he draw near that old tumble-down nest .
Would those two big white egg be there ?
Perhaps there would be three !
The very thought make him flap his wing a little faster .
A few more wing stroke and he would be right over the tree .
How he do hope to see those egg !
He could almost see into the nest now .
One stroke !
Two stroke !
Three stroke !
Blacky bit his tongue to keep from give a sharp caw of disappointment and surprise .
There be no egg to be see .
No , Sir , there be n't a sign of egg in that old nest .
There be n't because -- why , do you think ?
There be n't because Blacky look straight down on a great mass of feather which quite cover them from sight , and he do n't have to look twice to know that that great mass of feather be really a great bird , the bird to whom those egg belong .
Blacky do n't turn to come back a he have plan .
He keep right on , just a if he have n't see anything , and a he fly he shiver a little .
He shiver at the thought of what might have happen to him if he have try to steal those egg the day before and have be catch do it .
`` I 'm thankful I know enough to leave them alone , '' say he .
`` Funny I never once guess whose egg they be .
I might have know that no one but Hooty the Horned Owl would think of nest at this time of year .
And that be Mrs. Hooty I saw on the nest just now .
My , but she 's big !
She 's big than Hooty himself !
Yes , Sir , it 's a lucky thing I do n't try to get those egg yesterday .
Probably both Hooty and Mrs. Hooty be sit close by , only they be sit so still that I think they be part of the tree they be in .
Blacky , Blacky , the sooner you forget those egg the good . ''
Some thing be best forget As soon a they be learn .
Who never play with fire Will surely not get burn .
CHAPTER IV : The Cunning Of Blacky Now when Blacky the Crow discover that the egg in the old tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk in a lonesome corner of the Green Forest belong to Hooty the Owl , he straightway make the best of resolution ; he would simply forget all about those egg .
He would forget that he ever have see them , and he would stay away from that corner of the Green Forest .
That be a very wise resolution .
Of all the people who live in the Green Forest , none be fierce or more savage than Hooty the Owl , unless it be Mrs. Hooty .
She be big than Hooty and certainly quite as much to be fear by the little people .
All this Blacky know .
No one know it good .
And Blacky be not one to poke his head into trouble with his eye open .
So he very wisely resolve to forget all about those egg .
Now it be one thing to make a resolution and quite another thing to live up to it , a you all know .
It be easy enough to say that he would forget , but not at all easy to forget .
It would have be different if it have be spring or early summer , when there be plenty of other egg to be have by any one smart enough to find them and steal them .
But now , when it be still winter -LRB- such an unheard-of time for any one to have egg ! -RRB-
, and it be hard work to find enough to keep a hungry Crow 's stomach fill , the thought of those egg would keep pop into his head .
He just could n't seem to forget them .
After a little , he do n't try .
Now Blacky the Crow be very , very cunning .
He be one of the smart of all the little people who fly .
No one can get into more mischief and still keep out of trouble than can Blacky the Crow .
That be because he use the wit in that black head of his .
In fact , some people be unkind enough to say that he spend all his spare time in plan mischief .
The more he think of those egg , the more he want them , and it be n't long before he begin to try to plan some way to get them without risk his own precious skin .
`` I ca n't do it alone , '' think he , `` and yet if I take any one into my secret , I 'll have to share those egg .
That wo n't do at all , because I want them myself .
I find them , and I ought to have them . ''
He quite forget or overlook the fact that those egg really belong to Hooty and Mrs. Hooty and to no one else .
`` Now let me see , what can I do ? ''
He think and he think and he think and he think , and little by little a plan work out in his little black head .
Then he chuckle .
He chuckle right out loud , then hurriedly look around to see if any one have hear him .
No one have , so he chuckle again .
He cock his head on one side and half close his eye , a if that plan be something he could see and he be look at it very hard .
Then he cock his head on the other side and do the same thing .
`` It 's all right , '' say he at last .
`` It 'll give my relative a lot of fun , and of course they will be very grateful to me for that .
It wo n't hurt Hooty or Mrs. Hooty a bit , but it will make them very angry .
They have very short temper , and people with short temper usually forget everything else when they be angry .
We 'll pay them a visit while the sun be bright , because then perhaps they can not see well enough to catch u , and we 'll tease them until they lose their temper and forget all about keep guard over those egg .
Then I 'll slip in and get one and perhaps both of them .
Without know that they be do anything of the kind , my friend and relative will help me to get a good meal .
My , how good those egg will taste ! ''
It be a very clever and cunning plan , for Blacky be a very clever and cunning rascal , but of course it do n't deserve success because nothing that mean needless worry and trouble for others deserves to succeed .
CHAPTER V : Blacky Calls His Friends When Blacky cry `` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
As if he 'd dislocate his jaw , His relative all hasten where He wait them with a crafty air .
They know that there be mischief afoot , and the Crow family be always ready for mischief .
So on this particular morning when they hear Blacky caw at the top of his lung from the tall pine-tree in the Green Forest , they hasten over there as fast a they could fly , call to each other excitedly and sure that they be go to have a good time of some kind .
Blacky chuckle a he saw them come .
`` Come on !
Come on !
Caw , caw , caw !
Hurry up and flap your wing faster .
I know where Hooty the Owl be , and we 'll have no end of fun with him , '' he cry .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout all his relative in great glee .
`` Where be he ?
Lead u to him .
We 'll drive him out of the Green Forest ! ''
So Blacky lead the way over to the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest , straight to the tree in which Hooty the Owl be comfortably sleep .
Blacky have take pain to slip over early that morning and make sure just where he be .
He have discover Hooty fast asleep , and he know that he would remain right where he be until dark .
You know Hooty 's eye be not mean for much use in bright light , and the brighter the light , the more uncomfortable his eye feel .
Blacky know this , too , and he have choose the very bright part of the morning to call his relative over to torment poor Hooty .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun be shin his very bright , and the white snow on the ground make it seem brighter still .
Even Blacky have to blink , and he know that poor Hooty would find it hard still .
But one thing Blacky be very careful not to even hint of , and that be that Mrs. Hooty be right close at hand .
Mrs. Hooty be big and even more fierce than Hooty , and Blacky do n't want to frighten any of the more timid of his relative .
What he hop down deep in his crafty heart be that when they get to tease and torment Hooty and make the great racket which he know they would , Mrs. Hooty would lose her temper and fly over to join Hooty in try to drive away the black tormentor .
Then Blacky would slip over to the nest which she have leave unguarded and steal one and perhaps both of the egg he know be there .
When they reach the tree where Hooty be , he be blink his great yellow eye and have fluff out all his feather , which be a way he have when he be angry , to make himself look twice as big a he really be .
Of course , he have hear the noisy crew come , and he know well enough what to expect .
As soon a they saw him , they begin to scream as loud a ever they could and to call him all manner of name .
The bold of them would dart at him a if to pull out a mouthful of feather , but take the great care not to get too near .
You see , the way Hooty hiss and snap his great bill be very threatening , and they know that if once he get hold of one of them with those big cruel claw of his , that would be the end .
So they be content to simply scold and scream at him and fly around him , just out of reach , and make him generally uncomfortable , and they be so busy do this that no one notice that Blacky be not join in the fun , and no one pay any attention to the old tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk only a few tree distant .
So far Blacky 's plan be work out just a he have hop .
CHAPTER VI : Hooty The Owl Does n't Stay Still Now what 's the good of be smart When others do not do their part ?
If Blacky the Crow do n't say this to himself , he think it .
He know that he have make a very cunning plan to get the egg of Hooty the Owl , a plan so shrewd and cunning that no one else in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows would have think of it .
There be only one weakness in it , and that be that it depend for success on have Hooty the Owl do a he usually do when torment by a crowd of noisy Crows , -- stay where he be until they get tire and fly away .
Now Blacky sometimes make a mistake that smart people be very apt to make ; he think that because he be so smart , other people be stupid .
That be where he prove that smart a he be , he be n't as smart a he think he be .
He always think of Hooty the Owl a stupid .
That be , he always think of him that way in daytime .
At night , when he be wake out of a sound sleep by the fierce hunting cry of Hooty , he be n't so sure about Hooty be stupid , and he always take care to sit perfectly still in the darkness , l Hooty 's great ear should hear him and Hooty 's great eye , make for see in the dark , should find him .
No , in the night Blacky be not at all sure that Hooty be stupid .
But in the daytime he be sure .
You see , he quite forget the fact that the brightness of day be to Hooty what the blackness of night be to him .
So , because Hooty would simply sit still and hiss and snap his bill , instead of try to catch his tormentor or fly away , Blacky call him stupid .
He felt sure that Hooty would stay right where he be now , and he hop that Mrs. Hooty would lose her temper and leave the nest where she be sit on those two egg and join Hooty to help him try to drive away that noisy crew .
But Hooty be n't stupid .
Not a bit of it .
The minute he find out that Blacky and his friend have discover him , he think of Mrs. Hooty and the two precious egg in the old nest of Redtail the Hawk close by .
`` Mrs. Hooty must n't be disturb , '' think he .
`` That will never do at all .
I must lead these black rascal away where they wo n't discover Mrs. Hooty .
I certainly must . ''
So he spread his broad wing and blunder away among the tree a little way .
He do n't fly far because the instant he start to fly that whole noisy crew with the exception of Blacky be after him .
Because he could n't use his claw or bill while fly , they grow bold enough to pull a few feather out of his back .
So he fly only a little way to a thick hemlock-tree , where it be n't easy for the Crows to get at him , and where the light do n't hurt his eye so much .
There he rest a few minute and then do the same thing over again .
He mean to lead those bothersome Crows into the dark part of the Green Forest and there -- well , he could see good there , and it might be that one of them would be careless enough to come within reach .
No , Hooty be n't stupid .
Certainly not .
Blacky awake to that fact a he sit in the top of a tall pine-tree silently watch .
He could see Mrs. Hooty on the nest , and a the noise of Hooty 's tormentor sound from farther and farther away , she settle herself more comfortably and close her eye .
Blacky could imagine that she be smile to herself .
It be clear that she have no intention of go to help Hooty .
His splendid plan have fail just because stupid Hooty , who be n't stupid at all , have fly away when he ought to have sit still .
It be very provoking .
CHAPTER VII : Blacky Tries Another Plan When one plan fail , just try another ; Declare you 'll win some way or other .
People who succeed be those who do not give up because they fail the first time they try .
They be the one who , as soon a one plan fail , get busy right away and think of another plan and try that .
If the thing they be try to do be a good thing , sooner or later they succeed .
If they be try to do a wrong thing , very likely all their plan fail , a they should .
Now Blacky the Crow know all about the value of try and try .
He be n't easily discourage .
Sometimes it be a pity that he be n't , because he plan so much mischief .
But the fact remain that he be n't , and he try and try until he can not think of another plan and just have to give up .
When he invite all his relative to join him in torment Hooty the Owl , he think he have a plan that just could n't fail .
He felt sure that Mrs. Hooty would leave her nest and help Hooty try to drive away his tormentor .
But Mrs. Hooty do n't do anything of the kind , because Hooty be smart enough and thoughtful enough to lead his tormentor away from the nest into the dark part of the Green Forest where their noise would n't bother Mrs. Hooty .
So she just settle herself more comfortably than ever on those egg which Blacky have hop she would give him a chance to steal , and his fine plan be quite upset .
Not one of his relative have notice that nest .
They have be too busy tease Hooty .
This be just a Blacky have hop .
He do n't want them to know about that nest because he be selfish and want to get those egg just for himself alone .
But now he know that the only way he could get Mrs. Hooty off of them would be by tease her so that she would lose her temper and try to catch some of her tormentor .
If she do that , there would be a chance that he might slip in and get at least one of those egg .
He would try it .
For a few minute he listen to the noise of his relative grow fainter and fainter , a Hooty lead them far and far into the Green Forest .
Then he open his mouth .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
he scream .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw !
Come back , everybody !
Here be Mrs. Hooty on her nest !
Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
Now as soon a they hear that , all Blacky 's relative stop chase and torment Hooty and start back as fast a they could fly .
They do n't like the dark part of the Green Forest into which Hooty be lead them .
Besides , they want to see that nest .
So back they come , caw at the top of their lung , for they be very much excite .
Some of them never have see a nest of Hooty 's .
And anyway , it would be just as much fun to tease Mrs. Hooty a it be to tease Hooty .
`` Where be the nest ? ''
they scream , a they come back to where Blacky be caw and pretend to be very much excite .
`` Why , '' exclaim one , `` that be the old nest of Redtail the Hawk .
I know all about that nest . ''
And he look at Blacky a if he think Blacky be play a joke on them .
`` It be Redtail 's , but it be Hooty 's now .
If you do n't believe me , just look in it , '' retort Blacky .
At once they all begin to fly over the top of the tree where they could look down into the nest and there , sure enough , be Mrs. Hooty , her great , round , yellow eye glare up at them angrily .
Such a racket !
Right away Hooty be forget , and the whole crowd at once begin to torment Mrs. Hooty .
Only Blacky sit watchful and silent , wait for Mrs. Hooty to lose her temper and try to catch one of her tormentor .
He have hope , a great hope , that he would get one of those egg .
CHAPTER VIII : Hooty Comes To Mrs. Hooty 's Aid No one can live just for self alone .
A lot of people think they can , but they be very much mistaken .
They be make one of the great mistake in the world .
Every teeny , weeny act , no matter what it be , affect somebody else .
That be one of Old Mother Nature 's great law .
And it be just a true among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows a with boy and girl and grown people .
It be Old Mother Nature 's way of make each of u responsible for the good of all and of teach u that always we should help each other .
As you know , when Blacky the Crow call all his relative over to the nest where Mrs. Hooty be sit on her egg , they at once stop torment Hooty and leave him alone in a thick hemlock-tree in the dark part of the Green Forest .
Of course Hooty be very , very glad to be leave in peace , and he might have spend the rest of the day there sleep in comfort .
But he do n't .
No , Sir , he do n't .
At first he give a great sigh of relief and settle himself a if he mean to stay .
He listen to the voice of those noisy Crows grow fainter and fainter and be glad .
But it be only for a few minute .
Presently those voice stop grow fainter .
They grow more excited-sounding than ever , and they come right from one place .
Hooty know then that his tormentor have find the nest where Mrs. Hooty be , and that they be torment her just a they have torment him .
He snap his bill angrily and then more angrily .
`` I guess Mrs. Hooty be quite able to take care of herself , '' he grumble , `` but she ought not to be disturb while she be sit on those egg .
I hate to go back there in that bright sunshine .
It hurt my eye , and I do n't like it , but I guess I 'll have to go back there .
Mrs. Hooty need my help .
I 'd rather stay here , but -- '' He do n't finish .
Instead , he spread his broad wing and fly back towards the nest and Mrs. Hooty .
His great wing make no noise , for they be make so that he can fly without make a sound .
`` If I once get hold of one of those Crows ! ''
he mutter to himself .
`` If I once get hold of one of those Crows , I 'll -- '' He do n't say what he would do , but if you have be near enough to hear the snap of his bill , you could have guess the rest .
All this time the Crows be have what they call fun with Mrs. Hooty .
Nothing be true fun which make others uncomfortable , but somehow a great many people seem to forget this .
So , while Blacky sit watch , his relative make a tremendous racket around Mrs. Hooty , and the more angry she grow , the more they scream and call her name and dart down almost in her face , a they pretend that they be go to fight her .
They be so busy do this , and Blacky be so busy watch them , hop that Mrs. Hooty would leave her nest and give him a chance to steal the egg he know be under her , that no one give Hooty a thought .
All of a sudden he be there , right in the tree close to the nest !
No one have hear a sound , but there he be , and in the claw of one foot he hold the tail feather of one of Blacky 's relative .
It be lucky , very lucky indeed for that one that the sun be in Hooty 's eye and so he have miss his aim .
Otherwise there would have be one less Crow .
Now it be one thing to tease one lone Owl and quite another to tease two together .
Besides , there be those black tail feather float down to the snow-covered ground .
Quite suddenly those Crows decide that they have have fun enough for one day , and in spite of all Blacky could do to stop them , away they fly , caw loudly and talk it all over noisily .
Blacky be the last to go , and his heart be sorrowful .
However could he get those egg ?
CHAPTER IX : Blacky Thinks Of Farmer Brown 's Boy `` Such luck ! ''
grumble Blacky , a he fly over to his favorite tree to do a little thinking .
`` Such luck !
Now all my neighbor know about the nest of Hooty the Owl , and sooner or later one of them will find out that there be egg in it .
There be one thing about it , though , and that be that if I ca n't get them , nobody can .
That be to say , none of my relative can .
I 've try every way I can think of , and those egg be still there .
My , my , my , how I would like one of them right now ! ''
Then Blacky the Crow do a thing which disappoint scamp often do , -- begin to blame the one he be try to wrong because his plan have fail .
To have hear him talk to himself , you would have suppose that those egg really belong to him and that Hooty and Mrs. Hooty have cheat him out of them .
Yes , Sir , that be what you would have think if you could have hear him mutter to himself there in the tree-top .
In his disappointment over not get those egg , he be so sorry for himself that he actually do feel that he be the one wronged , -- that Hooty and Mrs. Hooty should have let him have those egg .
Of course , that be absolute foolishness , but he make himself believe it just the same .
At least , he pretend to believe it .
And the more he pretend , the angrier he grow .
This be often the way with people who try to wrong others .
They grow angry with the one they have try to wrong .
When at last Blacky have to confess to himself that he could think of no other way to get those egg , he begin to wonder if there be some way to make trouble for Hooty and Mrs. Hooty .
It be right then that he think of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Blacky 's eye snap .
He remember how , once upon a time , Farmer Brown 's boy have delight to rob nest .
Blacky have see him take the egg from the nest of Blacky 's own relative and from many other feathered people .
What he do with the egg , Blacky have no idea .
Just now he do n't care .
If Farmer Brown 's boy would just happen to find Hooty 's nest , he would be sure to take those egg , and then he , Blacky , would feel well .
He would feel that he be even with Hooty .
Right away he begin to try to think of some way to bring Farmer Brown 's boy over to the lonesome corner of the Green Forest where Hooty 's nest be .
If he could once get him there , he felt sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would see the nest and climb up to it , and then of course he would take the egg .
If he could n't have those egg himself , the next best thing would be to see some one else get them .
Dear me , dear me , such dreadful thought !
I be afraid that Blacky 's heart be as black a his coat .
And the bad of it be , he seem to get a lot of pleasure in his wicked plan .
Now right down in his heart he know that they be wicked plan , but he try to make excuse to himself .
`` Hooty the Owl be a robber , '' say he .
`` Everybody be afraid of him .
He live on other people , and so far a I know he do no good in the world .
He be big and fierce , and no one love him .
The Green Forest would be good off without him .
If those egg hatch , there will be little Owls to be feed , and they will grow up into big fierce Owls , like their father and mother .
So if I show Farmer Brown 's boy that nest and he take those egg , I will be do a kindness to my neighbor . ''
So Blacky talk to himself and try to hush the still , small voice down inside that try to tell him that what he be plan to do be really a dreadful thing .
And all the time he watch for Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER X : Farmer Brown 's Boy And Hooty Farmer Brown 's boy have take it into his head to visit the Green Forest .
It be partly because he have n't anything else to do , and it be partly because now that it be very near the end of winter he want to see how thing be there and if there be any sign of the come of spring .
Blacky the Crow saw him come , and Blacky chuckle to himself .
He have watch every day for a week for just this thing .
Now he would tell Farmer Brown 's boy about that nest of Hooty the Owl .
He fly over to the lonesome corner of the Green Forest where Hooty and Mrs. Hooty have make their home and at once begin to caw at the top of his voice and pretend that he be terribly excite over something .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky .
At once all his relative within hear hurry over to join him .
They know that he be torment Hooty , and they want to join in the fun .
It be n't long before there be a great racket go on over in that lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy hear it .
He stop and listen .
`` Now I wonder what Blacky and his friend have find this time , '' say he .
`` Whenever they make a fuss like that , there be usually something to see there .
I believe I 'll so over and have a look . ''
So he turn in the direction of the lonesome corner of the Green Forest , and a he draw near , he move very carefully , so a to see all that he could without frighten the Crows .
He know that as soon a they saw him , they would fly away , and that might alarm the one they be torment , for he know enough of Crow way to know that when they be make such a noise a they be now make , they be plague some one .
Blacky be the first to see him because he be watch for him .
But he do n't say anything until Farmer Brown 's boy be so near that he could n't help but see that nest and Hooty himself , sit up very straight and snap his bill angrily at his tormentor .
Then Blacky give the alarm , and at once all the Crows rise in the air and head for the Green Meadows , caw at the top of their lung .
Blacky go with them a little way .
The first chance he get he drop out of the flock and silently fly back to a place where he could see all that might happen at the nest of Hooty the Owl .
When Farmer Brown 's boy first catch sight of the nest and saw the Crows dart down toward it and act so excited , he be puzzle .
`` That 's an old nest of Red-tail the Hawk , '' think he .
`` I find that last spring .
Now what can there be there to excite those Crows so ? ''
Then he catch sight of Hooty the Owl .
`` Ha , so that 's it ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Those scamp have discover Hooty and have be have no end of fun torment him .
I wonder what he 's do there . ''
He no longer try to keep out of sight , but walk right up to the foot of the tree , all the time look up .
Hooty saw him , but instead of fly away , he snap his bill just a he have at the Crows and hiss .
`` That 's funny , '' think Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` If I do n't know that to be the old nest of Redtail the Hawk , and if it be n't still the tail-end of winter , I would think that be Hooty 's nest . ''
He walk in a circle around the tree , look up .
Suddenly he give a little start .
Was that a tail sticking over the edge of the nest ?
He find a stick and throw it up .
It strike the bottom of the nest , and out fly a great bird .
It be Mrs. Hooty !
Blacky the Crow chuckle .
CHAPTER XI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Tempted When you 're tempt to do wrong Is the time to prove you 're strong .
Shut your eye and clench each fist ; It will help you to resist .
When a bird be find sit on a nest , it be a pretty sure sign that that nest hold something worth while .
It be a sign that that bird have set up housekeeping .
So when Farmer Brown 's boy discover Mrs. Hooty sit so close on the old nest of Redtail the Hawk , in the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest , he know what it mean .
Perhaps I should say that he know what it ought to mean .
It ought to mean that there be egg in that nest .
But it be hard for Farmer Brown 's boy to believe that .
Why , spring have not come yet !
There be still snow , and the Smiling Pool be still cover with ice .
Who ever heard of bird nest at this time of year ?
Certainly not Farmer Brown 's boy .
And yet Hooty the Owl and Mrs. Hooty be act for all the world a feathered folk do act when they have egg and be afraid that something be go to happen to them .
It be very puzzling .
`` That nest be build by Red-tail the Hawk , and it have n't even be repair , '' mutter Farmer Brown 's boy , a he star up at it .
`` If Hooty and his wife have take it for their home , they be mighty poor housekeeper .
And if Mrs. Hooty have lay egg this time of year , she must be crazy .
I suppose the way to find out be to climb up there .
It seem foolish , but I 'm go to do it .
Those Owls certainly act a if they be mighty anxious about something , and I 'm go to find out what it be . ''
He look at Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , at their hooked bill and great claw , and decide that he would take a stout stick along with him .
He have no desire to feel these great claw .
When he have find a stick to suit him , he begin to climb the tree .
Hooty and Mrs. Hooty snap their bill and hiss fiercely .
They draw nearer .
Farmer Brown 's boy keep a watchful eye on them .
They look so big and fierce that he be almost tempt to give up and leave them in peace .
But he just have to find out if there be anything in that nest , so he keep on .
As he draw near it , Mrs. Hooty swoop very near to him , and the snap of her bill make an ugly sound .
He hold his stick ready to strike and keep on .
The nest be simply a great platform of stick .
When Farmer Brown 's boy reach it , he find that he could not get where he could look into it , so he reach over and felt inside .
Almost at once his finger touch something that make him tingle all over .
It be an egg , a great big egg !
There be no doubt about it .
It be just as hard for him to believe a it have be for Blacky the Crow to believe , when he first saw those egg .
Farmer Brown 's boy 's finger close over that egg and take it out of the nest .
Mrs. Hooty swoop very close , and Farmer Brown 's boy nearly drop the egg a he strike at her with his stick .
Then Mrs. Hooty and Hooty seem to lose courage and withdraw to a tree near by , where they snap their bill and hiss .
Then Farmer Brown 's boy look at the prize in his hand .
It be a big , dirty-white egg .
His eye shone .
What a splendid prize to add to his collection of bird ' egg !
It be the first egg of the Great Horned Owl , the large of all Owls , that he ever have see .
Once more he felt in the nest and find there be another egg there .
`` I 'll take both of them , '' say he .
`` It 's the first nest of Hooty 's that I 've ever find , and perhaps I 'll never find another .
Gee , I 'm glad I come over here to find out what those Crows be make such a fuss about .
I wonder if I can get these clown without break them . ''
Just at that very minute he remember something .
He remember that he have stop collect egg .
He remember that he have resolve never to take another bird 's egg .
`` But this be different , '' whisper the tempter .
`` This be n't like take the egg of the little song bird . ''
CHAPTER XII : A Tree-Top Battle As black be black and white be white , So wrong be wrong and right be right .
There be n't any half way about it .
A thing be wrong or it be right , and that be all there be to it .
But most people have hard work to see this when they want very much to do a thing that the still small voice way down inside tell them be n't right .
They try to compromise .
To compromise be to do neither one thing nor the other but a little of both .
But you ca n't do that with right and wrong .
It be a queer thing , but a half right never be as good a a whole right , while a half wrong often , very often , be as bad a a whole wrong .
Farmer Brown 's boy , up in the tree by the nest of Hooty the Owl in the lonesome corner of the Green Forest , be fight a battle .
No , he be n't fight with Hooty or Mrs. Hooty .
He be fight a battle right inside himself .
It be a battle between right and wrong .
Once upon a time he have take great delight in collect the egg of bird , in try to see how many kind he could get .
Then a he have come to know the little forest and meadow people well , he have see that take the egg of bird be very , very wrong , and he have stop steal them .
He bad declare that never again would he steal an egg from a bird .
But never before have he find a nest of Hooty the Owl .
Those two big egg would add ever so much to his collection .
`` Take 'em , '' say a little voice inside .
`` Hooty be a robber .
You will be do a kindness to the other bird by take them . ''
`` Do n't do it , '' say another little voice .
`` Hooty may be a robber , but he have a place in the Green Forest , or Old Mother Nature never would have put him here .
It be just as much steal to take his egg a to take the egg of any other bird .
He have just as much right to them a Jenny Wren have to hers . ''
`` Take one and leave one , '' say the first voice .
`` That will be just as much stealing a if you take both , '' say the second voice .
`` Besides , you will be break your own word .
You say that you never would take another egg . ''
`` I do n't promise anybody but myself , '' declare Farmer Brown 's boy right out loud .
At the sound of his voice , Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , sit in the next tree , snap their bill and hiss loud than ever .
`` A promise to yourself ought to be just as good a a promise to any one else .
I do n't wonder Hooty hiss at you , '' say the good little voice .
`` Think how fine those egg will look in your collection and how proud you will be to show them to the other fellow who never have find a nest of Hooty 's , '' say the first little voice .
`` And think how mean and small and cheap you 'll feel every time you look at them , '' add the good little voice .
`` You 'll get a lot more fun if you leave them to hatch out and then watch the little Owls grow up and learn all about their way .
Just think what a stout , brave fellow Hooty be to start housekeep at this time of year , and how wonderful it be that Mrs. Hooty can keep these egg warm and when they have hatch take care of the baby Owls before others have even begin to build their nest .
Besides , wrong be wrong and right be right , always . ''
Slowly Farmer Brown 's boy reach over the edge of the nest and put back the egg .
Then he begin to climb down the tree .
When he reach the ground he go off a little way and watch .
Almost at once Mrs. Hooty fly to the nest and settle down on the egg , while Hooty mount guard close by .
`` I 'm glad I do n't take 'em , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Yes , Sir , I 'm glad I do n't take 'em . ''
As he turn back toward home , he saw Blacky the Crow flying over the Green Forest , and little do he guess how he have upset Blacky 's plan .
CHAPTER XIII : Blacky Has A Change Of Heart Blacky The Crow be n't all black .
No , indeed .
His coat be black , and sometimes it seem a if his heart be all black , but this be n't so .
It certainly seem a if his heart be all black when he try so hard to make trouble for Hooty the Owl .
It would seem a if only a black heart could have urge him to try so hard to steal the egg of Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , but this be n't really so .
You see , it do n't seem at all wrong to try to get those egg .
Blacky be hungry , and those egg would have give him a good meal .
He know that Hooty would n't hesitate to catch him and eat him if he have the chance , and so it seem to him perfectly right and fair to steal Hooty 's egg if he be smart enough to do so .
And most of the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows would have felt the same way about it .
You see , it be one of the law of Old Mother Nature that each one must learn to look out for himself .
But when Blacky show that nest of Hooty 's to Farmer Brown 's boy with the hope that Farmer Brown 's boy would steal those egg , there be blackness in his heart .
He be do something then which be pure meanness .
He be just try to make trouble for Hooty , to get even because Hooty have be too smart for him .
He have sit in the top of a tall pine-tree where he could see all that happen , and he have chuckle wickedly a he have see Farmer Brown 's boy climb to Hooty 's nest and take out an egg .
He felt sure that he would take both egg .
He hop so , anyway .
When he saw Farmer Brown 's boy put the egg back and climb down the tree without any , he have to blink his eye to make sure that he saw straight .
He just could n't believe what he saw .
At first he be dreadfully disappointed and angry .
It look very much a if he be n't go to get even with Hooty after all .
He fly over to his favorite tree to think thing over .
Now sometimes it be a good thing to sit by oneself and think thing over .
It give the little small voice deep down inside a chance to be hear .
It be just that way with Blacky now .
The longer he think , the meaner his action in call Farmer Brown 's boy look .
It be one thing to try to steal those egg himself , but it be quite another matter to try to have them steal by some one against whom Hooty have no protection whatever .
`` If it have be any one but Hooty , you would have do your best to have keep Farmer Brown 's boy away , '' say the little voice inside .
Blacky hang his head .
He know that it be true .
More than once , in fact many time , he have warn other feather folk when Farmer Brown 's boy have be hunt for their nest , and have help to lead him away .
At last Blacky throw up his head and chuckle , and this time his chuckle be good to hear .
`` I 'm glad that Farmer Brown 's boy do n't take those egg , '' say he right out loud .
`` Yes , sir , I 'm glad .
I 'll never do such a thing a that again .
I 'm ashamed of what I do ; yet I 'm glad I do it .
I 'm glad because I 've learn some thing .
I 've learn that Farmer Brown 's boy be n't as much to be fear a he use to be .
I 've learn that Hooty be n't as stupid a I think he be .
I 've learn that while it may be all right for u people of the Green Forest to try to outwit each other we ought to protect each other against common danger .
And I 've learn something I do n't know before , and that be that Hooty the Owl be the very first of u to set up housekeeping .
Now I think I 'll go hunt for an honest meal . ''
And he do .
CHAPTER XIV : Blacky Makes A Call Judge no one by his style of dress ; Your ignorance you thus confess .
-- Blacky the Crow .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw . ''
There be no need of look to see who that be .
Peter Rabbit know without look .
Mrs. Quack know without look .
Just the same , both look up .
Just alight in the top of a tall tree be Blacky the Crow .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , '' he repeat , look down at Peter and Mrs. Quack and Mr. Quack and the six young Quacks .
`` I hope I be not interrupt any secret gossip . ''
`` Not at all , '' Peter hasten to say .
`` Mrs. Quack be just tell me of the trouble and clanger in bring up a young family in the Far North .
How do you know the Quacks have arrive ? ''
Blacky chuckle hoarsely .
`` I do n't , '' say he .
`` I simply think there might be something go on I do n't know about over here in the pond of Paddy the Beaver , so I come over to find out .
Mr. Quack , you and Mrs. Quack be look very fine this fall .
And those handsome young Quacks , you do n't mean to tell me that they be your child ! ''
Mrs. Quack nod proudly .
`` They be , '' say she .
`` You do n't say so ! ''
exclaim Blacky , a if he be very much surprise , when all the time he be n't surprise at all .
`` They be a credit to their parent .
Yes , indeed , they be a credit to their parent .
Never have I see finer young Ducks in all my life .
How glad the hunter with terrible gun will be to see them . ''
Mrs. Quack shiver at that , and Blacky saw it .
He chuckle softly .
You know he dearly love to make others uncomfortable .
`` I saw three hunter over on the edge of the Big River early this very morning , '' say he .
Mrs. Quack look more anxious than ever .
Blacky 's sharp eye note this .
`` That be why I come over here , '' he add kindly .
`` I want to give you warn . ''
`` But you do n't know the Quacks be here ! ''
speak up Peter .
`` True enough , Peter .
True enough , '' reply Blacky , his eye twinkle .
`` But I think they might be .
I have hear a rumor that those who go south be travel early than usual this fall , so I know I might find Mr. and Mrs. Quack over here any time now .
Is it true , Mrs. Quack , that we be go to have a long , hard , cold winter ? ''
`` That be what they say up in the Far North , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` And it be true that Jack Frost have start down earlier than usual .
That be how it happen we be here now .
But about those hunter over by the Big River , do you suppose they will come over here ? ''
There be an anxious note in Mrs. Quack 's voice .
`` No , '' reply Blacky promptly .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy wo n't let them .
I know .
I 've be watch him and he have be watch those hunter .
As long a you stay here , you will be safe .
What a great world this would be if all those two-legged creature be like Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` Would n't it ! ''
cry Peter .
Then he add , `` I wish they be . ''
`` You do n't wish it half as much a I do , '' declare Mrs. Quack .
`` Yet I can remember when he use to hunt with a terrible gun and be as bad a the bad of them , '' say Blacky .
`` What change him ? ''
ask Mrs. Quack , look interested .
`` Just get really acquaint with some of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , '' reply Blacky .
`` He find them ready to meet him more than halfway in friendship and that some of them really be his best friend . ''
`` And now he be their best friend , '' speak up Peter .
Blacky nod .
`` Right , Peter , '' say he .
`` That be why the Quacks be safe here and will be as long a they stay . ''
CHAPTER XV : Blacky Does A Little Looking About Do not take the word of others That thing be or be not so When there be a chance that you may Find out for yourself and know .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow be a shrewd fellow .
He be one of the smart and shrewd of all the little people in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
Everybody know it .
And because of this , all his neighbor have a great deal of respect for him , despite his mischievous way .
Of course , Blacky have notice that Johnny Chuck have dig his house deep than usual and have stuff himself until he be fatter than ever before .
He have notice that Jerry Muskrat be make the wall of his house thicker than in other year , and that Paddy the Beaver be do the same thing to his house .
You know there be very little that escape the sharp eye of Blacky the Crow .
He have guess what these thing meant .
`` They think we be go to have a long , hard , cold winter , '' mutter Blacky to himself .
`` Perhaps they know , but I want to see some sign of it for myself .
They may be only guess .
Anybody can do that , and one guess be as good a another . ''
Then he find Mr. and Mrs. Quack , the Mallard Ducks , and their child in the pond of Paddy the Beaver and remember that they never have come down from their home in the Far North a early in the fall a this .
Mrs. Quack explain that Jack Frost have already start south , and so they have start earlier to keep well ahead of him .
`` Looks a if there may be something in this idea of a long , hard , cold winter , '' think Blacky , `` but perhaps the Quacks be only guess , too .
I would n't take their word for it any more than I would the word of Johnny Chuck or Jerry Muskrat or Paddy the Beaver .
I 'll look about a little . ''
So after warn the Quacks to remain in the pond of Paddy the Beaver if they would be safe , Blacky bid them good-by and fly away .
He head straight for the Green Meadows and Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
A little of that yellow corn would make a good breakfast .
When he reach the cornfield , Blacky perch on top of a shock of corn , for it already have be cut and put in shock in readiness to be cart up to Farmer Brown 's barn .
For a few minute he sit there silent and motionless , but all the time his sharp eye be make sure that no enemy be hide behind one of those brown shock .
When he be quite certain that thing be as safe a they seem , he pick out a plump ear of corn and begin to tear open the husk , so a to get at the yellow grain .
`` Seems to me these husk be unusually thick , '' mutter Blacky , a he tear at them with his stout bill .
`` Do n't remember ever have see them as thick a these .
Wonder if it just happen to be so on this ear . ''
Then , a a sudden thought pop into his black head , he leave that ear and go to another .
The husk of this be as thick a those on the first .
He fly to another shock and find the husk there just the same .
He try a third shock with the same result .
`` Huh , they be all alike , '' say he .
Then he look thoughtful and for a few minute sit perfectly still like a black statue .
`` They be right , '' say he at last .
`` Yes , Sir , they be right . ''
Of course he mean Johnny Chuck and Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver and the Quacks .
`` I do n't know how they know it , but they be right ; we be go to have a long , hard , cold winter .
I know it myself now .
I 've find a sign .
Old Mother Nature have wrap this corn in extra thick husk , and of course she have do it to protect it .
She do n't do thing without a reason .
We be go to have a cold winter , or my name be n't Blacky the Crow . ''
CHAPTER XVI : Blacky Finds Other Signs A single fact may fail to prove you either right or wrong ; Confirm it with another and your proof will then be strong .
-- Blacky the Crow .
After his discovery that Old Mother Nature have wrap all the ear of corn in extra thick husk , Blacky have no doubt in his own mind that Johnny Chuck and Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver and the Quacks be quite right in feel that the come winter would be long , hard and cold .
But Blacky long ago learn that it be n't wise or wholly safe to depend altogether on one thing .
`` Old Mother Nature never do thing by half , '' think Blacky , a he sit on the fence post on the Green Meadows , think over his discovery of the thick husk on the corn .
`` She would n't take care to protect the corn that way and not do as much for other thing .
There must be other sign , if I be smart enough to find them . ''
He lift one black wing and begin to set in order the feather beneath it .
Suddenly he make a funny little hop straight up .
`` Well , I never ! ''
he exclaim , a he spread his wing to regain his balance .
`` I never do ! ''
`` Is that so ? ''
pip a squeaky little voice .
`` If you say you never do , I suppose you never do , though I want the word of some one else before I will believe it .
What be it you never do ? ''
Blacky look down .
Peeping up at him from the brown grass be two bright little eye .
`` Hello , Danny Meadow Mouse ! ''
exclaim Blacky .
`` I have n't see you for a long time .
I 've look for you several time lately . ''
`` I do n't doubt it .
I do n't doubt it at all , '' squeak Danny .
`` You 'll never see me when you be look for me .
That be , you wo n't if I can help it .
You wo n't if I see you first . ''
Blacky chuckle .
He know what Danny meant .
When Blacky go look for Danny Meadow Mouse , it usually be in hope of have a Meadow Mouse dinner , and he know that Danny know this .
`` I 've have my breakfast , '' say Blacky , `` and it be n't dinner time yet . ''
`` What be it you never do ? ''
persist Danny , in his squeaky voice .
`` That be just an exclamation , '' explain Blacky .
`` I make a discovery that surprise me so I exclaim right out . ''
`` What be it ? ''
demand Danny .
`` It be that the feather of my coat be come in thicker than I ever know them to before .
I have n't notice it until I start to set them in order a minute ago . ''
He bury his bill in the feather of his breast .
`` Yes , sir , '' say he in a muffled voice , `` they be come in thicker than I ever know them to before .
There be a lot of down around the root of them .
I be go to have the warm coat I 've ever have . ''
`` Well , do n't think you be the only one , '' retort Danny .
`` My fur never be so thick at this time of year a it be now , and it be the same way with Nanny Meadow Mouse and all our child .
I suppose you know what it mean . ''
`` What do it mean ? ''
ask Blacky , just a if he do n't have the least idea , although he have guess the instant he discover those extra feather .
`` It mean we be go to have a long , hard , cold winter , and Old Mother Nature be prepare u for it , '' reply Danny , quite a if he know all about it .
`` You 'll find that everybody who do n't go south or sleep all winter have a thicker coat than usual .
Hello !
There be old Roughleg the Hawk !
He have come extra early this year .
I think I 'll go back to warn Nanny . ''
Without another word Danny disappear in the brown grass .
Again Blacky chuckle .
`` More sign , '' say he to himself .
`` More sign .
There be n't a doubt that we be go to have a hard winter .
I wonder if I can stand it or if I 'd well go a little way south , where it will be warm . ''
CHAPTER XVII : Blacky Watches A Queer Performance This much to me be very clear : A thing not understood be queer .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow may be right .
Again he may not be .
If he be right , it will account for a lot of the queer people in the world .
They be not understood , and so they be queer .
At least , that be what other people say , and never once think that perhaps they be the queer one for not understand .
But Blacky be n't like those people who be satisfy not to understand and to think other people and thing queer .
He do his best to understand .
He wait and watch and us those sharp eye of his and those quick wit of his until at last usually he do understand .
The day of his discovery of Old Mother Nature 's sign that the come winter would be long , hard and cold , Blacky pay a visit to the Big River .
Long ago he discover that many thing be to be see on or beside the Big River , thing not to be see elsewhere .
So there be few clay in which he do not get over there .
As he draw near the Big River , he be very watchful and careful , be Blacky , for this be the season when hunter with terrible gun be abroad , and he have discover that they be likely to be hide along the Big River , hop to shoot Mr. or Mrs. Quack or some of their relative .
So he be very watchful a he draw near the Big River , for he have learn that it be dangerous to pass too near a hunter with a terrible gun .
More than once he have be shoot at .
But he have learn by these experience .
Oh , yes , Blacky have learn .
For one thing , he have learn to know a gun when he saw it .
For another thing , he have learn just how far away one of these dreadful gun could be and still hurt the one it be point at , and to always keep just a little farther away .
Also he have learn that a man or boy without a terrible gun be quite harmless , and he have learn that hunter with terrible gun be tricky and sometimes hide from those they seek to kill , so that in the dreadful hunting season it be best to look sharply before approach any place .
On this afternoon , a he draw near the Big River , he saw a man who seem to be very busy on the shore of the Big River , at a place where wild rice and rush grow for some distance out in the water , for just there it be shallow far out from the shore .
Blacky look sharply for a terrible gun .
But the man have none with him and therefore be not to be fear .
Blacky boldly draw near until he be able to see what the man be do .
Then Blacky 's eye stretch their widest and he almost caw right out with surprise .
The man be take yellow corn from a bag , a handful at a time , and throw it out in the water .
Yes , Sir , that be what he be do , scatter nice yellow corn among the rush and wild rice in the water !
`` That 's a queer performance , '' mutter Blacky , a he watch .
`` What be he throw perfectly good corn out in the water for ?
He be n't plant it , for this be n't the planting season .
Besides , it would n't grow in the water , anyway .
It be a shame to waste nice corn like that .
What be he do it for ? ''
Blacky fly over to a tree some distance away and alight in the top of it to watch the queer performance .
You know Blacky have very keen eye and he can see a long distance .
For a while the man continue to scatter corn and Blacky continue to wonder what he be do it for .
At last the man go away in a boat .
Blacky watch him until he be out of sight .
Then he spread his wing and slowly fly back and forth just above the rush and wild rice , at the place where the man have be scatter the corn .
He could see some of the yellow grain on the bottom .
Presently he saw something else .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Blacky .
CHAPTER XVIII : Blacky Becomes Very Suspicious Of thing you do not understand , Beware !
They may be wholly harmless but -- Beware !
You 'll find the old that you grow That only thing and folk you know Are fully to be trust , so Beware !
-- Blacky the Crow .
That be one of Blacky 's wise saying , and he live up to it .
It be one reason why he have come to be regard by all his neighbor a one of the smart of all who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadow .
He seldom get into any real trouble because he first make sure there be no trouble to get into .
When he discover something he do not understand , he be at once distrustful of it .
As he watch a man scatter yellow corn in the water from the shore of the Big River he at once become suspicious .
He could n't understand why a man should throw good corn among the rush and wild rice in the water , and because he could n't understand , he at once begin to suspect that it be for no good purpose .
When the man leave in a boat , Blacky slowly fly over the rush where the man have throw the corn , and presently his sharp eye make a discovery that cause him to exclaim right out .
What be it Blacky have discover ?
Only a few feather .
No one with eye less sharp than Blacky 's would have notice them .
And few would have give them a thought if they have notice them .
But Blacky know right away that those be feather from a Duck .
He know that a Duck , or perhaps a flock of Ducks , have be rest or feed in there among those rush , and that in move about they have leave those two or three downy feather .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Blacky .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Quack or some of their relative have be here .
It be just the kind of a place Ducks like .
Also some Ducks like corn .
If they should come back here and find this corn , they would have a feast , and they would be sure to come again .
That man who scatter the corn here do n't have a terrible gun , but that do n't mean that he be n't a hunter .
He may come back again , and then he may have a terrible gun .
I 'm suspicious of that man .
I be so .
I believe he put that corn here for Ducks and I do n't believe he do it out of the kindness of his heart .
If it be Farmer Brown 's boy I would know that all be well ; that he be think of hungry Ducks , with few place where they can fee in safety , a they make the long journey from the Far North to the Sunny South .
But it be n't Farmer Brown 's boy .
I do n't like the look of it .
I do n't indeed .
I 'll keep watch of this place and see what happen . ''
All the way to his favorite perch in a certain big hemlock-tree in the Green Forest , Blacky keep think about that corn and the man who have seem to be generous with it , and the more he think , the more suspicious he become .
He do n't like the look of it at all .
`` I 'll warn the Quacks to keep away from there .
I 'll do it the very first thing in the morning , '' he mutter , a he prepare to go to sleep .
`` If they have any sense at all , they will stay in the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
But if they should go over to the Big River , they would be almost sure to find that corn , and if they should once find it , they would keep go back for more .
It may be all right , but I do n't like the look of it . ''
And still full of suspicion , Blacky go to sleep .
CHAPTER XIX : Blacky Makes More Discoveries Little thing you fail to see May important prove to be .
-- Blacky the Crow .
One of the secret of Blacky 's success in life be the fact that he never fail to take note of little thing .
Long ago he learn that little thing which in themselves seem harmless and not worth notice may together prove the most important thing in life .
So , no matter how unimportant a thing may appear , Blacky examine it closely with those sharp eye of his and remembers it .
The very first thing Blacky do , as soon a he be awake the morning after he discover the man scatter corn in the rush at a certain place on the edge of the Big River , be to fly over to the pond of Paddy the Beaver and again warn Mr. and Mrs. Quack to keep away from the Big River , if they and their six child would remain safe .
Then he get some breakfast .
He eat it in a hurry and fly straight over to the Big River to the place where he have see that yellow corn scatter .
Blacky be n't wholly surprise to find Dusky the Black Duck , own cousin to Mr. and Mrs. Quack the Mallard Ducks , with a number of his relative in among the rush and wild rice at the very place where that corn have be scatter .
They seem quite contented and in the best of spirit .
Blacky guess why .
Not a single grain of that yellow corn could Blacky see .
He know the way of Dusky and his relative .
He know that they must have come in there just at dusk the night before and at once have find that corn .
He know that they would remain hide there until frighten out , and that then they would spend the day in some little pond where they would not be likely to be disturb or where at least no danger could approach them without be see in plenty of time .
There they would rest all day , and when the Black Shadows come creep out from the Purple Hills , they would return to that place on the Big River to fee , for that be the time when they like best to hunt for their food .
Dusky look up a Blacky fly over him , but Blacky say nothing , and Dusky say nothing .
But if Blacky do n't use his tongue , he do use his eye .
He saw just on the edge of the shore what look like a lot of small bush grow close together on the very edge of the water .
Mixed in with them be a lot of the brown rush .
They look very harmless and innocent .
But Blacky know every foot of that shore along the Big River , and he know that those bush have n't be there during the summer .
He know that they have n't grow there .
He fly directly over them .
Just back of them be a couple of log .
Those log have n't be there when he pass that way a few day before .
He be sure of it .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Blacky under his breath .
`` Those look to me a if they might be very handy , very handy indeed , for a hunter to sit on .
Sitting there behind those bush , he would be hide from any Duck who might come in to look for nice yellow corn scatter out there among the rush .
It do n't look right to me .
No , Sir , it do n't look right to me .
I think I 'll keep an eye on this place . ''
So Blacky come back to the Big River several time that day .
The second time back he find that Dusky the Black Duck and his relative have leave .
When he return in the afternoon , he saw the same man he have see there the afternoon before , and he be do the same thing , -- scatter yellow corn out in the rush .
And a before , he go away in a boat .
`` I do n't like it , '' mutter Blacky , shake his black head .
`` I do n't like it . ''
CHAPTER XX : Blacky Drops A Hint When you see another 's danger Warn him though he be a stranger .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Every day for a week a man come in a boat to scatter corn in the rush at a certain point along the bank of the Big River , and every day Blacky the Crow watch him and shake his black head and talk to himself and tell himself that he do n't like it , and that he be sure that it be for no good purpose .
Sometimes Blacky watch from a distance , and sometimes he fly right over the man .
But never once do the man have a gun with him .
Every morning , very early , Blacky fly over there , and every morning he find Dusky the Black Duck and his flock in the rush and wild rice at that particular place , and he know that they have be there all night , He know that they have come in there just at dusk the night before , to feast on the yellow corn the man have scatter there in the afternoon .
`` It be no business of mine what those Ducks do , '' mutter Blacky to himself , `` but as surely a my tail feather be black , something be go to happen to some of them one of these day .
That man may be fool them , but he be n't fool me .
Not a bit of it .
He have n't have a gun with him once when I have see him , but just the same he be a hunter .
I feel it in my bone .
He know those silly Ducks come in here every night for that corn he put out .
He know that after they have be here a few time and nothing have frighten them , they will be so sure that it be a safe place that they will not be the least bit suspicious .
Then he will hide behind those bush he have place close to the edge of the water and wait for them with his terrible gun .
That be what he will do , or my name be n't Blacky . ''
Finally Blacky decide to drop a hint to Dusky the Black Duck .
So the next morning he stop for a call .
`` Good morning , '' say he , a Dusky swam in just in front of him .
`` I hope you be feel as fine a you look . ''
`` Quack , quack , '' reply Dusky .
`` When Blacky the Crow flatters , he hop to gain something .
What be it this time ? ''
`` Not a thing , '' reply Blacky .
`` On my honor , not a thing .
There be nothing for me here , though there seem to be plenty for you and your relative , to judge by the fact that I find you in this same place every morning .
What be it ? ''
`` Corn , '' reply Dusky in a low voice , a if afraid some one might overhear him .
`` Nice yellow corn . ''
`` Corn ! ''
exclaim Blacky , a if very much astonish .
`` How do corn happen to be way over here in the water ? ''
Dusky shake his head .
`` Do n't ask me , for I ca n't tell you , '' say he .
`` I have n't the least idea .
All I know be that every evening when we arrive , we find it here .
How it get here , I do n't know , and furthermore I do n't care .
It be enough for me that it be here . ''
`` I 've see a man over here every afternoon , '' say Blacky .
`` I think he might be a hunter . ''
`` Did he have a terrible gun ? ''
ask Dusky suspiciously .
`` No-o , '' reply Blacky .
`` Then he be n't a hunter , '' declare Dusky , look much relieve .
`` But perhaps one of these day he will have one and will wait for you to come in for your dinner , '' suggest Blacky .
`` He could hide behind these bush , you know . ''
`` Nonsense , '' retort Dusky , toss his head .
`` There have n't be a sign of danger here since we have be here .
I know you , Blacky ; you be jealous because we find plenty to eat here , and you find nothing .
You be try to scare u .
But I 'll tell you right now , you ca n't scare u away from such splendid eating a we have have here .
So there ! ''
CHAPTER XXI : At Last Blacky Is Sure Who for another conquers fear Is truly brave , it be most clear .
-- Blacky the Crow .
It be late in the afternoon , and Blacky the Crow be on his way to the Green Forest .
As usual , he go around by the Big River to see if that man be scatter corn for the Ducks .
He be n't there .
No one be to be see along the bank of the Big River .
`` He have n't come to-day , or else he come early and have leave , '' think Blacky .
And then his sharp eye catch sight of something that make him turn aside and make straight for a certain tree , from the top of which he could see all that go on for a long distance .
What be it Blacky saw ?
It be a boat come down the Big River .
Blacky sit still and watch .
Presently the boat turn in among the rush , and a moment later a man step out on the shore .
It be the same man Blacky have watch scatter corn in the rush every day for a week .
There be n't the least doubt about it , it be the same man .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
exclaim Blacky , and nearly lose his balance in his excitement .
`` Ha , ha !
It be just a I think ! ''
You see Blacky 's sharp eye have see that the man be carry something , and that something be a gun , a terrible gun .
Blacky know a terrible gun as far a he can see it .
The hunter , for of course that be what he be , tramp along the shore until he reach the bush which Blacky have notice close to the water and which he know have not grow there .
The hunter look out over the Big River .
Then he walk along where he have scatter corn the day before .
Not a grain be to be see .
This seem to please him .
Then he go back to the bush and sit down on a log behind them , his terrible gun across his knee .
`` I be sure of it , '' mutter Blacky .
`` He be go to wait there for those Ducks to come in , and then something dreadful will happen .
What terrible creature these hunter be !
They do n't know what fairness be .
No , Sir , they do n't know what fairness be .
He have put food there day after day , where Dusky the Black Duck and his flock would be sure to find it , and have wait until they have become so sure there be no danger that they be no longer suspicious .
He know they will feel so sure that all be safe that they will come in without look for danger .
Then he will fire that terrible gun and kill them without give them any chance at all .
`` Reddy Fox be a sly , clever hunter , but he would n't do a thing like that .
Neither would Old Man Coyote or anybody else who wear fur or feather .
They might hide and try to catch some one by surprise .
That be all right , because each of u be suppose to be on the watch for thing of that sort .
Oh , dear , what 's to be do ?
It be time I be get home to the Green Forest .
The Black Shadows will soon come creep out from the Purple Hills , and I must be safe in my hemlock-tree by then .
I would be scar to death to be out after dark .
Yet those Ducks ought to be warn .
Oh , dear , what shall I do ? ''
Blacky peer over at the Green Forest and then over toward the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed very shortly .
He shiver a he think of the Black Shadows that soon would come swiftly out from the Purple Hills across the Big River and over the Green Meadows .
With them might come Hooty the Owl , and Hooty would n't object in the least to a Crow dinner .
He wish he be in that hemlock-tree that very minute .
Then Blacky look at the hunter with his terrible gun and thought of what might happen , what would be almost sure to happen , unless those Ducks be warn .
`` I 'll wait a little while long , '' mutter Blacky , and try to feel brave .
But instead he shiver .
CHAPTER XXII : Blacky Goes Home Happy No great happiness be win Than through a deed for others do .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky sit in the top of a tree near the bank of the Big River and could n't make up his mind what to do .
He want to get home to the big , thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest before dusk , for Blacky be afraid of the dark .
That be , he be afraid to be out after dark .
`` Go along home , '' say a voice inside him , `` there be hardly time now for you to get there before the Black Shadows arrive .
Do n't waste any more time here .
What may happen to those silly Ducks be no business of yours , and there be nothing you can do , anyway .
Go along home . ''
`` Wait a few minute , '' say another little voice down inside him .
`` Do n't be a coward .
You ought to warn Dusky the Black Duck and his flock that a hunter with a terrible gun be wait for them .
Is it true that it be no business of yours what happen to those Ducks ?
Think again , Blacky ; think again .
It be the duty of each one who see a common danger to warn his neighbor .
If something dreadful should happen to Dusky because you be afraid of the dark , you never would be comfortable in your own mind .
Stay a little while and keep watch . ''
Not five minute later Blacky saw something that make him , oh , so glad he have keep watch .
It be a swiftly move black line just above the water far down the Big River , and it be come up .
He know what that black line be .
He look over at the hunter hiding behind some bush close to the edge of the water .
The hunter be crouch with his terrible gun in his hand and be peep over the bush , watch that black line .
He , too , know what it be .
It be a flock of Ducks fly .
Blacky be all ashake again , but this time it be n't with fear of be catch away from home in the dark ; it be with excitement .
He know that those Ducks have become so eager for more of that corn , that delicious yellow corn which every night for a week they have find scatter in the rush just in front of the place where that hunter be now hide , that they could n't wait for the come of the Black Shadows .
They be so sure there be no danger that they be come in to eat without wait for the Black Shadows , a they usually do .
And Blacky be glad .
Perhaps now he could give them warn .
Up the middle of the Big River , fly just above the water , sweep the flock with Dusky at it head .
How swiftly they fly , those nine big bird !
Blacky envy them their swift wing .
On past the hidden hunter but far out over the Big River they sweep .
For just a minute Blacky think they be go on up the river and not come in to eat , after all .
Then they turn toward the other shore , sweep around in a circle and head straight in toward that hidden hunter .
Blacky glance at him and saw that he be ready to shoot .
Almost without thinking , Blacky spread his wing and start out from that tree .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
he shriek at the top of his lung .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
It be his danger cry that everybody on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest know .
Instantly Dusky turn and begin to climb up , up , up , the other Ducks follow him until , a they pass over the hidden hunter , they be so high it be useless for him to shoot .
He do put up his gun and aim at them , but he do n't shoot .
You see , he do n't want to frighten them so that they would not return .
Then the flock turn and start off in the direction from which they have come , and in a few minute they be merely a black line disappear far down the Big River .
Blacky head straight for the Green Forest , chuckle a he fly .
He know that those Ducks would not return until after dark .
He have save them this time , and he be so happy he do n't even notice the Black Shadows .
And the hunter stand up and shake his fist at Blacky the Crow .
CHAPTER XXIII : Blacky Calls Farmer Brown 's Boy Blacky awoke in the best of spirit .
Late the afternoon before he have save Dusky the Black Duck and his flock from a hunter with a terrible gun .
He be n't quite sure whether he be most happy in have save those Ducks by warn them just in time , or in have spoil the plan of that hunter .
He hat a hunter with a terrible gun , do Blacky .
For that matter , so do all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
So Blacky start out for his breakfast in high spirit .
After breakfast , he fly over to the Big River to see if Dusky the Black Duck be feed in the rush along the shore .
Dusky be n't , and Blacky guess that he and his flock have be so frighten by that warn that they have keep away from there the night before .
`` But they 'll come back after a night or so , '' mutter Blacky , a he alight in the top of a tree , the same tree from which he have watch the hunter the afternoon before .
`` They 'll come back , and so will that hunter .
If he see me around again , he 'll try to shoot me .
I 've do all I can do .
Anyway , Dusky ought to have sense enough to be suspicious of this place after that warning .
Hello , who be that ?
I do believe it be Farmer Brown 's boy .
I wish he would come over here .
If he should find out about that hunter , perhaps he would do something to drive him away .
I 'll see if I can call him over here . ''
Blacky begin to call in the way he do when he have discover something and want others to know about it .
`` Caw , caw , caaw , caaw , caw , caw , caaw ! ''
scream Blacky , a if greatly excite .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy , have no work to do that morning , have start for a tramp over the Green Meadows , hop to see some of his little friend in feather and fur .
He hear the excited cawing of Blacky and at once turn in that direction .
`` That black rascal have find something over on the shore of the Big River , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy to himself .
`` I 'll go over there to see what it be .
There be n't much escape the sharp eye of that black busybody .
He have lead me to a lot of interesting thing , one time and another .
There he be on the top of that tree over by the Big River . ''
As Farmer Brown 's boy draw near , Blacky fly down and disappear below the bank .
Fanner Brown 's boy chuckle .
`` Whatever it be , it be right down there , '' he mutter .
He walk forward rapidly but quietly , and presently he reach the edge of the bank .
Up flew Blacky cawing wildly , and pretend to be scar half to death .
Again Farmer Brown 's boy chuckle .
`` You 're just make believe , '' he declare .
`` You 're try to make me believe that I have surprise you , when all the time you know I be come and have be wait for me .
Now , what have you find over here ? ''
He look eagerly along the shore , and at once he saw a row of low bush close to the edge of the water .
He know what it be instantly .
`` A Duck blind ! ''
he exclaim .
`` A hunter have build a blind over here from which to shoot Ducks .
I wonder if he have kill any yet .
I hope not . ''
He go down to the blind , for that be what a Duck hunter 's hiding-place be call , and look about .
A couple of grain of corn just inside the blind catch his eye , and his face darken .
`` That fellow have be bait Ducks , '' think he .
`` He have be put out corn to get them to come here regularly .
My , how I hate that sort of thing !
It be bad enough to hunt them fairly , but to fee them and then kill them -- ugh !
I wonder if he have shoot any yet . ''
He look all about keenly , and his face clear .
He know that if that hunter have kill any Ducks , there would be tell-tale feather in the blind , and there be none .
CHAPTER XXIV : Farmer Brown 's Boy Does Some Thinking Farmer Brown 's boy sit on the bank of the Big River in a brown study .
That mean that he be think very hard .
Blacky the Crow sit in the top of a tall tree a short distance away and watch him .
Blacky be silent now , and there be a knowing look in his shrewd little eye .
In call Farmer Brown 's boy over there , he have do all he could , and he be quite satisfied to leave the matter to Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` A hunter have make that blind to shoot Black Ducks from , '' think Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and he have be bait them in here by scatter corn for them .
Black Ducks be about the smart Ducks that fly , but if they have be come in here every evening and find corn and no sign of danger , they probably think it perfectly safe here and come straight in without be at all suspicious .
To-night , or some night soon , that hunter will be wait for them .
`` I guess the law that permit hunt Ducks be all right , but there ought to be a law against bait them in .
That be n't hunt .
No , Sir , that be n't hunt .
If this land be my father 's , I would know what to do .
I would put up a sign say that this be private property and no shooting be allow .
But it be n't my father 's land , and that hunter have a perfect right to shoot here .
He have just as much right here a I have .
I wish I could stop him , but I do n't see how I can . ''
A frown pucker the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
You see , he be think very hard , and when he do that he be very apt to frown .
`` I suppose , '' he mutter , `` I can tear down his blind .
He would n't know who do it .
But that would n't do much good ; he would build another .
Besides , it would n't be right .
He have a perfect right to make a blind here , and have make it , it be his and I have n't any right to touch it .
I wo n't do a thing I have n't a right to do .
That would n't be honest .
I 've get to think of some other way of save those Ducks . ''
The frown on his freckled face grow deep , and for a long time he sit without move .
Suddenly his face clear , and he jump to his foot .
He begin to chuckle .
`` I have it ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I 'll do a little shoot myself ! ''
Then he chuckle again and start for home .
Presently he begin to whistle , a way he have when he be in good spirit .
Blacky the Crow watch him go , and Blacky be well satisfied .
He do n't know what Farmer Brown 's boy be plan to do , but he have a feeling that he be plan to do something , and that all would be well .
Perhaps Blacky would n't have felt so sure could he have understand what Farmer Brown 's boy have say about do a little shooting himself .
As it be , Blacky fly off about his own business , quite satisfy that now all would be well , and he need worry no more about those Ducks .
None of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows know Farmer Brown 's boy well than do Blacky the Crow .
None know good than he that Farmer Brown 's boy be their best friend .
`` It be all right now , '' chuckle Blacky .
`` It be all right now . ''
And a the cheery whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy float back to him on the Merry Little Breezes , he repeat it : `` It be all right now . ''
CHAPTER XXV : Blacky Gets A Dreadful Shock When friend prove false , whom may we trust ?
The spring of faith be turn to dust .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow be in the top of his favorite tree over near the Big River early this afternoon .
He do n't know what be go to happen , but he felt in his bone that something be , and he mean to be on hand to see .
For a long time he sit there , see nothing unusual .
At last he spy a tiny figure far away across the Green Meadows .
Even at that distance he know who it be ; it be Farmer Brown 's boy , and he be come toward the Big River .
`` I think as much , '' chuckle Blacky .
`` He be come over here to drive that hunter away . ''
The tiny figure grow large .
It be Farmer Brown 's boy beyond a doubt .
Suddenly Blacky 's eye open so wide that they look a if they be in danger of pop out of his head .
He have discover that Farmer Brown 's boy be carry something and that that something be a gun !
Yes , Sir , Farmer Brown 's boy be carry a terrible gun !
If Blacky could have rub his eye , he would have do so , just to make sure that there be nothing the matter with them .
`` A gun ! ''
croak Blacky .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy with a terrible gun !
What do it mean ? ''
Nearer come Farmer Brown 's boy , and Blacky could see that terrible gun plainly now .
Suddenly an idea pop into his head .
`` Perhaps he be go to shoot that hunter ! ''
think Blacky , and somehow he felt well .
Farmer Brown 's boy reach the Big River at a point some distance below the blind build by the hunter .
He lay his gun down on the bank and go down to the edge of the water .
The rush grow very thick there , and for a while Farmer Brown 's boy be very busy among them .
Blacky from his high perch could watch him , and a he watch , he grow more and more puzzled .
It look very much a if Farmer Brown 's boy be build a blind much like that of the hunter 's .
At last he carry an old log down there , get his gun , and sit down just a the hunter have do in his blind the afternoon before .
He be quite hidden there , except from a place high up like Blacky 's perch .
`` I -- I -- I do believe he be go to try to shoot those Ducks himself , '' gasp Blacky .
`` I would n't have believe it if any one have tell me .
No , Sir , I would n't have believe it .
I -- I -- ca n't believe it now .
Farmer Brown 's boy hunting with a terrible gun !
Yet I 've get to believe my own eye . ''
A noise up river catch his attention .
It be the noise of oar in a boat .
There be the hunter , row down the Big River .
Just a he have do the day before , he come ashore above his blind and walk down to it .
`` This be no place for me , '' mutter Blacky .
`` He 'll remember that I scar those Ducks yesterday , and as likely a not he 'll try to shoot me . ''
Blacky spread his black wing and hurriedly leave the tree-top , head for another tree far back on the Green Meadows where he would be safe , but from which he could not see as well .
There he sit until the Black Shadows warn him that it be high time for him to be get back to the Green Forest .
He have to hurry , for it be later than usual , and he be afraid to be out after dark .
Just a he reach the Green Forest he hear a faint `` bang , bang '' from over by the Big River , and he know that it come from the place where Farmer Brown 's boy be hide in the rush .
`` It be true , '' croak Blacky .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy have turn hunter . ''
It be such a dreadful shock to Blacky that it be a long time before he could go to sleep .
CHAPTER XXVI : Why The Hunter Got No Ducks The hunter who have come down the Big River in a boat and land near the place where Dusky the Black Duck and his flock have find nice yellow corn scatter in the rush night after night saw Blacky the Crow leave the top of a certain tree a he approach .
`` It be well for you that you do n't wait for me to get nearer , '' say the hunter .
`` You be smart enough to know that you ca n't play the same trick on me twice .
You frighten those Ducks away last night , but if you try it again , you 'll be shoot as surely a your coat be black . ''
Then the hunter go to his blind which , you know , be the hiding-place he have make of bush and rush , and behind this he sit down with his terrible gun to wait and watch for Dusky the Black Duck and his flock .
Now you remember that far along the shore of the Big River be Farmer Brown 's boy , hide in a blind he have make that afternoon .
The hunter could n't see him at all .
He do n't have the least idea that any one else be anywhere near .
`` With that Crow out of the way , I think I will get some Ducks to-night , '' think the hunter and look at his gun to make sure that it be ready .
Over in the West , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun start to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows come creep out .
Far down the Big River the hunter saw a swiftly move black line just above the water .
`` Here they come , '' he mutter , a he eagerly watch that black line draw nearer .
Twice those big black bird circle around over the Big River opposite where the hunter be crouch behind his blind .
It be plain that Dusky , their leader , remember Blacky 's warn the night before .
But this time there be no warning .
Everything appear safe .
Once more the flock circle and then head straight for that place where they hop to find more corn .
The hunter crouch low .
They be almost near enough for him to shoot when `` bang , bang '' go a gun a short distance away .
Instantly Dusky and his flock turn and on swift wing swing off and up the river .
If ever there be a disappointed hunter , it be the one crouching in that blind .
`` Somebody else be hunt , and he spoil my shot that time , '' he mutter .
`` He must have a blind far down .
Probably some other Ducks I do n't see come in to him .
I wonder if he get them .
Here 's hop that next time those Ducks come in here first . ''
He once more make himself comfortable and settle down for a long wait .
The Black Shadows creep out from the farther bank of the Big River .
Jolly , round red Mr. Sun have go to bed , and the first little star be twinkle high overhead .
It be very still and peaceful .
From out in the middle of the Big River sound a low `` quack '' ; Dusky and his flock be swim in this time .
Presently the hunter could see a silver line on the water , and then he make out nine black spot .
In a few minute those Ducks would be where he could shoot them .
`` Bang , bang '' go that gun below him again .
With a roar of wing , Dusky and his flock be in the air and away .
That hunter stand up and say thing , and they be not nice thing .
He know that those Ducks would not come back again that night , and that once more he must go home empty-handed .
But first he would find out who that other hunter be and what luck he have have , so he tramp down the shore to where that gun have seem to be .
He find the blind of Farmer Brown 's boy , but there be no one there .
You see , as soon a he have fire his gun the last time , Farmer Brown 's boy have slip out and away .
And a he tramp across the Green Meadows toward home with his gun , he chuckle .
`` He do n't get those Ducks this time , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XXVII : The Hunter Gives Up Blacky The Crow do n't know what to think .
He could n't make himself believe that Farmer Brown 's boy have really turn hunter , yet what else could he believe ?
Had n't he with his own eye see Farmer Brown 's boy with a terrible gun hide in rush along the Big River and wait for Dusky the Black Duck and his flock to come in ?
And have n't he with his own ear hear the `` bang , bang '' of that very gun ?
The very first thing the next morning Blacky have hasten over to the place where Farmer Brown 's boy have hide in the rush .
With sharp eye he look for feather , that would tell the tale of a Duck kill .
But there be no feather .
There be n't a thing to show that anything so dreadful have happen .
Perhaps Farmer Brown 's boy have miss when he shoot at those Ducks .
Blacky shake his head and decide to say nothing to anybody about Farmer Brown 's boy and that terrible gun .
You may be sure that early in the afternoon he be perch in the top of his favorite tree over by the Big River .
His heart sank , just a on the afternoon before , when he saw Farmer Brown 's boy with his terrible gun trudge across the Green Meadows to the Big River .
Instead of go to the same hiding place he make a new one farther down .
Then come the hunter a little early than usual .
Instead of stop at his blind , he walk straight to the blind Farmer Brown 's boy have first make .
Of course , there be no one there .
The hunter look both glad and disappointed .
He go back to his own blind and sit down , and while he watch for the come of the Ducks , he also watch that other blind to see if the unknown hunter of the night before would appear .
Of course he do n't , and when at last the hunter saw the Ducks coming , he be sure that this time he would get some of them .
But the same thing happen a on the night before .
Just a those Ducks be almost near enough , a gun go `` bang , bang , '' and away go the Ducks .
They do n't come back again , and once more a disappointed hunter go home without any .
The next afternoon he be on hand very early .
He be there before Farmer Brown 's boy arrive , and when he do come , of course the hunter saw him .
He walk down to where Farmer Brown 's boy be hide in the rush .
`` Hello ! ''
say he .
`` Are you the one who be shoot here last night and the night before ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy grin .
`` Yes , '' say he .
`` What luck do you have ? ''
ask the hunter .
`` Fine , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` How many Ducks do you get ? ''
ask the hunter .
Farmer Brown 's boy grin more broadly than before .
`` None , '' say he .
`` I guess I 'm not a very good shot . ''
`` Then what do you mean by say you have fine luck ? ''
demand the hunter .
`` Oh , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy , `` I have the luck to see those Ducks and the fun of shooting , '' and he grin again .
The hunter lose patience .
He try to order Farmer Brown 's boy away .
But the latter say he have a much right there a the hunter have , and the hunter know that this be so .
Finally he give up , and mutter angrily , he go back to his blind .
Again the gun of Farmer Brown 's boy frighten away the Ducks just a they be come in .
The next afternoon there be no hunter nor the next , though Farmer Brown 's boy be there .
The hunter have decide that it be a waste of time to hunt there while Farmer Brown 's boy be about .
CHAPTER XXVIII : Blacky Has A Talk With Dusky The Black Duck Doubt not a friend , but to the last Grip hard on faith and hold it fast .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Every morning Blacky the Crow visit the rush along the shore of the Big River , hop to find Dusky the Black Duck .
He be anxious , be Blacky .
He fear that Dusky or some of his flock have be kill , and he want to know .
You see , he know that Farmer Brown 's boy have be shoot over there .
At last , early one morning , he find Dusky and his flock in the rush and wild rice .
Eagerly he count them .
There be nine .
Not one be miss .
Blacky sigh with relief and drop down on the shore close to where Dusky be take a nap .
`` Hello ! ''
say Blacky .
Dusky awake with a start .
`` Hello , yourself , '' say he .
`` I 've hear a terrible gun banging over here , and I be afraid you or some of your flock have be shoot , '' say Blacky .
`` We have n't lose a feather , '' declare Dusky .
`` That gun be n't fire at u , anyway . ''
`` Then who be it fire at ? ''
demand Blacky .
`` I have n't the least idea , '' reply Dusky .
`` Have you see any other Ducks about here ? ''
inquired Blacky .
`` Not one , '' be Dusky 's prompt reply .
`` If there have be any , I guess we would have know it . ''
`` Did you know that when that terrible gun be fire there be another terrible gun right over behind those bush ? ''
ask Blacky .
Dusky shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` but I learn long ago that where there be one terrible gun there be likely to be more , and so when I hear that one bang , I lead my flock away from here in a hurry .
We do n't want to take any chance . ''
`` It be a lucky thing you do , '' reply Blacky .
`` There be a hunter hide behind those bush all the time .
I warn you of him once . ''
`` That remind me that I have n't thank you , '' say Dusky .
`` I know there be something wrong over here , but I do n't know what .
So it be a hunter .
I guess it be a good thing that I heed your warn-ing . ''
`` I guess it be , '' retort Blacky dryly .
`` Do you come here in daytime instead of night now ? ''
`` No , '' reply Dusky .
`` We come in after dark and spend the night here .
There be nothing to fear from hunter after dark .
We 've give up come here until late in the evening .
And since we do that , we have n't hear a gun . ''
Blacky gossip a while longer , then fly off to look for his breakfast ; and a he fly his heart be light .
His shrewd little eye twinkle .
`` I ought to have know Farmer Brown 's boy well than even to suspect him , '' think he .
`` I know now why he have that terrible gun .
It be to frighten those Ducks away so that the hunter would not have a chance to shoot them .
He be n't shoot at anything .
He just fire in the air to scare those Ducks away .
I know it just as well a if I have see him do it .
I 'll never doubt Farmer Brown 's boy again .
And I 'm glad I do n't say a word to anybody about see him with a terrible gun . ''
Blacky be right .
Farmer Brown 's boy have take that way of make sure that the hunter who have first bait those Ducks with yellow corn scatter in the rush in front of his hide place should have no chance to kill any of them .
While appear to be an enemy , he really have be a friend of Dusky the Black Duck and his flock .
CHAPTER XXIX : Blacky Discovers An Egg Blacky be fond of egg , a you know .
In this he be a great deal like other people , Farmer Brown 's boy for instance .
But a Blacky can not keep hen , a Farmer Brown 's boy do , he be oblige to steal egg or else go without .
If you come right down to plain , everyday truth , I suppose Blacky be n't so far wrong when he insist that he be no more of a thief than Farmer Brown 's boy .
Blacky say that the egg which the ben lay belong to the hen , and that he , Blacky have just as much right to take them a Farmer Brown 's boy .
He quite overlook the fact that Farmer Brown 's boy feed the biddy and take the egg a pay .
Anyway , that be what Farmer Brown 's boy say , but I do not know whether or not the biddy understand it that way .
So Blacky the Crow can not see why he should not help himself to an egg when he get the chance .
He do n't get the chance very often to steal egg from the hen , because usually they lay their egg in the henhouse , and Blacky be too suspicious to venture inside .
The egg he do get be mostly those of his neighbor in the Green Forest and the Old Orchard .
But once in a great while some foolish hen will make a nest outside the henhouse somewhere , and if Blacky happen to find it the black scamp watch every minute he can spare from other mischief for a chance to steal an egg .
Now Blacky know just what a rogue Farmer Brown 's boy think he be , and for this reason Blacky be very careful about approach Farmer Brown or any other man until he have make sure that he run no risk of be shot .
Blacky know quite as well a any one what a gun look like .
He also know that without a terrible gun , there be little Farmer Brown or any one else can do to him .
So when he see Farmer Brown out in his field , Blacky often will fly right over him and shout `` Caw , caw , caw , ca-a-w ! ''
in the most provoking way , and Fanner Brown 's boy insist that he have see Blacky wink when he be do it .
But Blacky do n't do anything of this kind around the building of Farmer Brown .
You see , he have learn that there be door and window in building , and out of one of these a terrible gun may bang at any time .
Though he have suspect that Farmer Brown 's boy would not now try to harm him , Blacky be naturally cautious and take no chance .
So when he come spy around Farmer Brown 's house and barn , he do it when he be quite sure that no one be about , and he make no noise about it .
First he sit in a tall tree from which he can watch Farmer Brown 's home .
When he be quite sure that the way be clear , he fly over to the Old Orchard , and from there he inspect the barnyard , never once make a sound .
If he be quite sure that no one be about , he sometimes drop down into the henyard and help himself to corn , if any happen to be there .
It be on one of these silent visit that Blacky spy something which he could n't forget .
It be a box just inside the henhouse door .
In the box be some hay and in that hay he be sure that he have see an egg .
In fact , he be sure that he saw two egg there .
He might not have notice them but for the fact that a hen have jump down from that box , make a terrible fuss .
She do n't seem frighten , but very proud .
What under the sun she have to be proud about Blacky could n't understand , but he do n't stay to find out .
The noise she be make make him nervous .
He be afraid that it would bring some one to find out what be go on .
So he spread his black wing and fly away as silently a he have come .
As he be fly away he saw those egg .
You see , a he rise into the air , he manage to pass that open door in such a way that he could glance in .
That one glance be enough .
You know Blacky 's eye be very sharp .
He saw the hay in the box and the two egg in the hay , and that be enough for him .
From that instant Blacky the Crow begin to scheme and plan to get one or both of those egg .
It seem to him that he never , never , have want anything quite so much , and he be sure that he would not and could not be happy until he succeed in get one .
CHAPTER XXX : Blacky Screws Up His Courage If out of sight , then out of mind .
This be a say which you often hear .
It may be true sometimes , but it be very far from true at other time .
Take the case of Blacky .
He have have only a glance into that nest just inside the door of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , but that glance have be enough to show him two egg there .
Then , a he fly away toward the Green Forest , those egg be out of sight , of course .
But do you think they be out of mind ?
Not much !
No , indeed !
In fact , those egg be very much in Blacky 's mind .
He could n't think of anything else .
He fly straight to a certain tall pine-tree in a lonely part of the Green Forest .
Whenever Blacky want to think or to plan mischief , he seek that particular tree , and in the shelter of it broad branch he keep out of sight of curious eye , and there he sit as still a still can be .
`` I want one of those egg , '' mutter Blacky , a he settle himself in comfort on a certain particular spot on a certain particular branch of that tall pine-tree .
Indeed , that particular branch might well be call the `` mischief branch , '' for on it Blacky have think out and plan most of the mischief he be so famous for .
`` Yes , sir , '' he continue , `` I want one of those egg , and what be more , I be go to have one . ''
He half close his eye and tip his head back and swallow a couple of time , a if he already taste one of those egg .
`` There be more in one of those egg than in a whole nestful of Welcome Robin 's egg .
It be a very long time since I have be lucky enough to taste a hen 's egg , and now be my chance .
I do n't like have to go inside that henhouse , even though it be barely inside the door .
I 'm suspicious of door .
They have a way of close most unexpectedly .
I might see if I can not get Unc ' Billy Possum to bring one of those egg out for me .
But that plan wo n't do , come to think of it , because I ca n't trust Unc ' Billy .
The old sinner be too fond of egg himself .
I would be willing to divide with him , but he would be sure to eat his first , and I fear that it would taste so good that he would eat the other .
No .
I 've get to get one of those egg myself .
It be the only way I can be sure of it .
`` The thing to do be to make sure that Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown himself be nowhere about .
They ought to be down in the cornfield pretty soon .
With them down there , I have only to watch my chance and slip in .
It wo n't take but a second .
Just a little courage , Blacky , just a little courage !
Nothing in this world worth have be gain without some risk .
The thing to do be to make sure that the risk be as small a possible . ''
Blacky shake out his feather and then fly out of the tall pine-tree as silently a he have fly into it .
He head straight toward Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
When he be near enough to see all over the field , he drop down to the top of a fence post , and there he wait .
He do n't have long to wait .
In fact , he have be there but a few minute when he spy two people come down the Long Lane toward the cornfield .
He look at them sharply , and then give a little sigh of satisfaction .
They be Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy .
Presently they reach the cornfield and turn into it .
Then they go to work , and Blacky know that so far a they be concern , the way be clear for him to visit the henyard .
He do n't fly straight there .
Oh , my , no !
Blacky be too clever to do anything like that .
He fly toward the Green Forest .
When he know that he be out of sight of those in the cornfield , he turn and fly over to the Old Orchard , and from the top of one of the old apple-trees he study the henyard and the barnyard and Farmer Brown 's house and the barn , to make absolutely sure that there be no danger near .
When he be quite sure , he silently fly down into the henyard a he have do many time before .
He pretend to be look for scattered grain of corn , but all the time he be edge nearer and nearer to the open door of the henhouse .
At last he could see the box with the hay in it .
He walk right up to the open door and peer inside .
There be nothing to be afraid of that he could see .
Still he hesitate .
He do hate to go inside that door , even for a minute , and that be all it would take to fly up to that nest and get one of those egg .
Blacky close his eye for just a second , and when he do that he seem to see himself eat one of those egg .
`` What be you afraid of ? ''
he mutter to himself a he open his eye .
Then with a hurried look in all direction , he fly up to the edge of the box .
There lay the two egg !
CHAPTER XXXI : An Egg That Would n't Behave If you have an egg and it would n't behave Just what would you do with that egg , may I ask ?
To make an egg do what it do n't want to do Strikes me like a difficult sort of a task .
All of which be pure nonsense .
Of course .
Who ever heard of an egg either behaving or misbehaving ?
Nobody .
That be , nobody that I know , unless it be Blacky .
It be best not to mention egg in Blacky 's presence these day .
They be a forbidden topic when he be about .
Blacky be apt to be a little resentful at the mere mention of an egg .
I do n't know a I wholly blame him .
How would you feel if you know you know all there be to know about a thing , and then find out that you do n't know anything at all ?
Well , that be the way it be with Blacky the Crow .
If any one have tell Blacky that he do n't know all there be to know about egg , he would have laugh at the idea .
Was n't he , Blacky , hatch from an egg himself ?
And have n't he , ever since he be big enough , hunt egg and steal egg and eat egg ?
If he do n't know about egg , who do ?
That be the way he would have talk before his visit to Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It be since then that it have be unwise to mention egg .
When Blacky saw the two egg in the nest in Farmer Brown 's henhouse how Blacky do wish that he could take both .
But he could n't .
One would be all that he could manage .
He must take his choice and go away while the go be good .
Which should he take ?
It often happen in this life that thing which seem to be unimportant , mere trifle in themselves , prove to be just the opposite .
Now , so far a Blacky could see , it do n't make the least difference which egg he take , except that one be a little big than the other .
As a matter of fact , it make all the difference in the world .
One be brown and very good to look at .
The other , the large of the two , be white and also very good to look at .
In fact , Blacky think it the good of the two to look at , for it be very smooth and shiny .
So , partly on this account , and partly because it be the large , Blacky choose the white egg .
He seize it in his claw and start to fly with it , but somehow he could not seem to get a good grip on it .
He flutter to the ground just outside the door , and there he get a good grip .
Just a old Dandy-cock the Rooster , with head down and all the feather on his neck stand out with anger , come charge at him , Blacky rise into the air and start over the Old Orchard toward the Green Forest .
Never have Blacky felt more like caw at the top of his lung .
You see , he felt that he have be very smart , and I suspect that he also felt that he have be very brave .
He would have like to boast a little .
But he do n't .
He wisely hold his tongue .
It would be time enough to do his boasting after he have reach a place of safety and have eat that egg .
He be halfway across the Old Orchard when he felt that egg begin to slip .
Now at best it be n't easy to carry an egg without break it .
You know how very careful you have to be .
Just imagine how Blacky felt when that egg begin to slip .
Do what he would , he could n't get a good grip on it .
It slip a wee bit more .
Blacky start down towards the ground .
But he be n't quick enough .
Striped Chipmunk , watch Blacky from the old stone wall , saw something white drop from Blacky 's claw .
He saw Blacky dash after it and clutch at it only to miss it .
Then the white thing strike a branch of an old apple tree , bounce off and fell to the ground .
Blacky follow it .
Striped Chipmunk stole very softly through the grass to see what Blacky be do .
Blacky be stand close beside a white thing that look very much like an egg .
He be look at it with the queer expression .
Now and then he would reach out and rap it sharply with his bill , and then look a if he do n't know what to make of it .
He do n't .
That egg be n't behave right .
It should have break when it hit the branch of the apple tree .
Certainly it should have break when he strike it that way with his bill .
However be he to eat that egg , if he could n't break the shell ?
Blacky do n't know .
CHAPTER XXXII : What Blacky Did With The Stolen Egg Blacky be puzzle .
He do n't know what to make of that egg he have steal from Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It be n't like any egg he ever have see or even heard of .
It be a beautiful-looking egg , and he have be sure that it would taste a good , quite as good a it look .
Even now he be n't sure that if he could only taste it , it would be all that he have hop .
But how could he taste it , when he could n't break that shell ?
He never have hear of such a shell .
He doubt if anybody else ever have , either .
He have hammer at it with his stout bill until he be afraid that he would break that , instead of the egg .
The more he try to break into it and could n't , the hungrier he grow , and the more certain that nothing else in all the world could possibly taste so good .
But the Old Orchard be not the place for him to work on that egg .
In the first place , it be too near Farmer Brown 's house .
This make Blacky uneasy .
You see , he have something of a guilty conscience .
Not that he felt at all a sense of have do wrong .
To his way of thinking , if he be smart enough to get that egg , he have just as much right to it a any one else , particularly Farmer Brown 's boy .
Yet he be n't at all sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would look at the matter quite that way .
In fact , he have a feeling that Farmer Brown 's boy would call him a thief if he should be discover with that egg .
Then , too , there be too many sharp eye in the Old Orchard .
He want to get away where he could be sure of be alone .
Then if he could n't break that shell , no one would be the wiser .
So he pick up the egg and fly straight over to the Green Forest , and this time he manage to get there without drop it .
Now you would never suspect Blacky the Crow , he of the sharp wit and crafty way , of be amuse by bright thing , would you ?
But he be .
In fact , Blacky be quite like a little child in this matter .
Anything that be bright and shiny interest Blacky right away .
If he find anything of this kind , he will take it away to a certain secret place , and there he will admire it and play with it and finally hide it .
If I do n't know that it be n't so , because it could n't possibly be so , I should think that Blacky be some relation to certain small boy I know .
Always their pocket be fill with all sort of useless odds and end which they have pick up here and there .
Blacky have no pocket , so he keep his treasure of this kind in a secret hiding-place , a sort of treasure storehouse .
He visit this secretly every day , uncover his treasure , and gloat over them and play with them , then carefully cover them up again .
First Blacky take this egg over near his home , and there he once more tried and tried and try to break the shell .
But the shell would n't break , not even when Blacky quite lose his temper and hammer at it for all he be worth .
Then he give the thing up a a bad matter and fly up to his favorite roost in the top of a tall pine-tree , leave the egg on the ground .
But from where he sit on his favorite roost in the tall pine-tree he could see that provoke egg , a little spot of shin white .
When a Jolly Little Sunbeam find it and rest on it , it be so very bright and shiny that Blacky could n't keep his eye off it .
Little by little he forget that it be an egg .
At least , he forget that he want to eat it .
He begin to find pleasure in just look at it .
It might not satisfy his stomach , but it certainly be very satisfy to his eye .
He forget to think of it a a thing to eat , but begin to think of it wholly a a thing to look at and admire .
He be glad he have n't be able to break that shell .
Once more he spread his black wing and fly down to the egg .
He cock his head to one side and look at it .
He cock his head to the other side and look at it .
He walk all around it , chuckle and say to himself , `` Pretty , pretty , pretty , pretty and all mine , mine , mine , mine !
Pretty , pretty , and all mine ! ''
Than he craftily look all about to make sure that no one be watch him .
Having make quite sure , he roll the egg over and turn it around and admire it to his heart 's content .
At last he pick it up and carry it to his treasure-house and cover it over very carefully .
And there that china nest-egg , for that be what he have steal , be still his chief treasure to this day , and Blacky still sometimes wonder what kind of a hen laid such a hard-shelled egg .
Blacky have have very many other adventure , but it would take another book to tell about all of them .
That would be hardly fair to some of the other little people who also have have adventure and want them tell to you .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Bowser_The_Hound.txt.out
CHAPTER I OLD MAN COYOTE LEADS BOWSER AWAY Though great or small the matter prove Be faithful in whate'er you do .
'T be thus and only thus you may To others and yourself be true .
Bowser the Hound .
Old Man Coyote be full of trick .
People with such clever wit a his usually be full of trick .
On the other hand Bowser the Hound be n't tricky at all .
He just go straight ahead with the thing he have to do and do it in the most earnest way .
Not be tricky himself , he sometimes forget to watch out for trick in others .
One day he find the fresh trail of Old Man Coyote and make up his mind that he would run down Old Man Coyote if he have to run his leg off to do it .
He always make up his mind like that whenever he start out to hunt .
You know there be nothing in the world Bowser enjoy quite so much a to hunt some one who will give him a long , hard run .
Any time he will go without eat for the pleasure of chase Reddy or Granny Fox , or Old Man Coyote .
Now Old Man Coyote be annoy .
He be and he be n't afraid of Bowser the Hound .
That be to say he be afraid to fight Bowser , but he be n't afraid to be hunt by Bowser , because he be so sure that he be smart enough to get away from Bowser .
If Bowser have appear at almost any other time Old Man Coyote would n't have be so annoyed .
But to have Bowser appear just then make him angry clear through .
You see he have just start out to get his dinner .
`` What business have that good-for-nothing dog over here anyway , I 'd like to know , '' he mutter , a he run swiftly through the Green Forest .
`` What right have he to meddle in other folk ' business ?
I 'll just teach that fellow a lesson ; that 's what I 'll do !
I 'll teach him that he ca n't interfere with me not be sorry for it . ''
So Old Man Coyote run and run and run , and never once do he try to break his trail .
In fact , he take pain to leave a trail that Bowser could follow easily .
After him Bowser ran and ran and ran , and all the time his great voice ring out joyously .
This be the kind of a hunt he love .
Out of the Green Forest into the Old Pasture , Old Man Coyote lead Bowser the Hound .
Across the Old Pasture and out on the other side they race .
Farther and far away from home Old Man Coyote lead Bowser the Hound .
Instead of circle back a usual , he keep on .
Bowser keep on after him .
By and by he be in strange country , country he have never visit before .
He do n't notice this .
He do n't notice anything but the splendid trail Old Man Coyote be make .
He do n't even realize that he be get tire .
Always in his nose be the tantalizing scent of Old Man Coyote .
Bowser be sure that this time he would catch this fellow who have fool him so often before .
CHAPTER II OLD MAN COYOTE PLAYS A TRICK Of people who play trick beware , Lest they may get you in a snare .
You can not trust them , so watch out Whenever one may be about .
Bowser the Hound .
There be such a thing a be too much interested in the thing you be do .
That be the way accidents very often happen .
A person will get so interested in something that he will be blind and deaf to everything else , and so will walk straight into danger or trouble of some kind .
Now just take the case of Bowser the Hound .
Bowser be so interested in the chase of Old Man Coyote that he pay no attention whatever to anything but the warm scent of Old Man Coyote which the latter be take pain to leave .
Bowser run with his nose in Old Man Coyote 's track and never look either to leave or right .
He would lift his head only to look straight ahead in the hope of see Old Man Coyote .
Then down would go his nose again to follow that scent .
So Bowser do n't notice that Old Man Coyote be lead him far , far away from home into country with which he be quite unacquainted .
Bowser have a great , deep , wonderful voice which can be hear a very long distance when he bay on the track of some one he be hunt .
It can be hear a very long distance indeed .
But far a it can be hear , Bowser be far , far beyond hear distance from Farmer Brown 's house before Old Man Coyote begin to even think of play one of his clever trick in order to make Bowser lose his scent .
You see , Old Man Coyote intend to lead Bowser into strange country and there lose him , hop that he would not be able to find the way home .
Old Man Coyote be himself a tireless runner .
He be not so heavy a be Bowser , so do not tire a easily .
Then , too , he have not waste his breath a have Bowser with his steady baying .
Old Man Coyote could tell by the sound of Bowser 's voice when the latter be begin to grow tired , and he could tell by the fact that he often have a moment or two to sit down and rest before Bowser get dangerously near .
So at last Old Man Coyote decide that the time have come to play a trick .
By and by he come to a river .
At that point there be a high , overhang bank .
On the very edge of this bank Old Man Coyote make a long leap to one side .
Then he make another long leap to the big trunk of a fall tree .
He run along this and from the end of it make still another long leap , a long a leap a he could .
Then he hide in a little thicket to see what would happen .
CHAPTER III WHAT HAPPENED TO BOWSER When a Coyote seem most honest , watch him close .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser be very , very tired .
He would n't admit it even to himself , for when he be hunt he will keep on until he drop if his wonderful nose can still catch the scent of the one he be follow .
Bowser be wonderfully persistent .
So , though he be very , very tired , he keep his nose to the ground and try to run even faster , for the scent of Old Man Coyote be so strong that Bowser felt sure he would soon catch him .
Bowser do n't look to see where he be go .
He do n't care .
It be enough for him to know that Old Man Coyote have go that way , and where Old Man Coyote could go Bowser felt sure he could follow .
So , still bay with all his might and make the hill ring with the sound of his great voice , Bowser keep on .
Hidden in a little thicket , stretch out so that he might rest good , Old Man Coyote listen to that great voice draw nearer and nearer .
There be a wicked grin on Old Man Coyote 's face , and in his yellow eye a look of great eagerness .
In a few minute Bowser come in sight , his nose in the trail Old Man Coyote have leave .
Into Bowser 's voice creep a new note of eagerness a his nose pick up the scent strong than ever .
Straight on he race and it seem a if he have gain new strength .
His whole thought be on just one thing -- catch Old Man Coyote , and Old Man Coyote know it .
Bowser do n't see that he be come to a steep bank .
He do n't see it at all until he reach the edge of it , and then he be go so fast that he could n't stop .
Over he go with a frightened yelp !
Down , down he fell , and land with a thump on the ice below .
He land so hard that he break the ice , and go through into the cold , black water .
Old Man Coyote creep to the edge of the bank and peep over .
Poor Bowser be have a terrible time .
You see , the cold water have take what little breath his fall have not knock out of him .
He do n't like to go in water anyway .
You know the hair of his coat be short and do n't protect him a it would if it be long .
Old Man Coyote grin wickedly a he watch Bowser struggle feebly to climb out on the ice .
Each time he try he slip back , and all the time he be whimper .
Old Man Coyote grin more wickedly than ever .
I suspect that he hop that Bowser would not be able to get out .
But after a little Bowser do manage to crawl out , and stand on the ice , shiver shaking .
Once more Old Man Coyote grin , then , turn , he trot back towards Farmer Brown 's .
CHAPTER IV POOR BOWSER Follow a crooked trail and you will find a scamp at the end .
Bowser the Hound .
Poor Bowser !
He stand shiver and shake on the ice of the strange river to which Old Man Coyote have lead him , and he know not which way to turn .
Not only be he shiver and shake from his cold bath , but he be bruise by his fall from the top of the steep bank , and he be so tire by his long run after Old Man Coyote that he could hardly stand .
Old Man Coyote have stay only long enough to see that Bowser have manage to get out of the water , then have turn back towards the Old Pasture , the Green Meadows and the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's .
You see , Old Man Coyote know the way back .
He would take his time about get there , for it really make no particular difference to him when he reach home .
He felt sure he would be able to find something to eat on the way .
But with Bowser it be very different .
Poor Bowser do n't know where he be .
It would have be bad enough under any circumstance to have be lose , but to be lose and at the same time tire almost to death , bruise and lame , wet and chill through , be almost too much to bear .
He have n't the least idea which way to turn .
He could n't climb up the bank to find his own trail and follow it back home if he want to .
You see , that bank be very steep for some distance in each direction , and so it be impossible for Bowser to climb it .
For a few minute he stand shiver , shake and whimper , not know which way to turn .
Then he start down the river on the ice , for he know he would freeze if he continue to stand still .
He limp badly because one leg have be hurt in his fall .
After a while he come to a place where he could get up on the bank .
It be in the midst of deep wood and a very , very lonely place .
Hard crust snow cover the ground , but it be good than walk on the ice and for this Bowser be thankful .
Which way should he turn ?
Where should he go ?
Night be come on ; he be wet , cold and hungry , and a utterly lose a ever a dog be .
Poor Bowser !
For a minute or two he sit down and howl from sheer lonesomeness and discouragement .
How he do wish he have leave Old Man Coyote alone !
How he do long for his snug , warm , little house in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , and for the good meal he know be await him there .
Now that the excitement of the hunt be over , he realize how very , very hungry he be , and he begin to wonder where he would be able to get anything to eat .
Do you wonder that he howl ?
Old Man Coyote , trot along on his way home , hear that howl and understood it .
Again he grin that wicked grin of his , and stop to listen .
`` I do n't think he 'll hunt me again in a hurry , '' he mutter , then trot on .
Poor Bowser !
Hunting for anything but his home be farthest from his thought .
CHAPTER V BOWSER SPENDS A BAD NIGHT There 's nothing like just stick to The thing you undertake to do .
There 'll be no cause then , though you fail , To hang your head or drop your tail .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser be lose , utterly lose .
He have n't the least idea in which direction Farmer Brown 's house be .
In fact he have n't the least idea which way to turn to find any house .
It be the most lonely kind of a lonely place to which Old Man Coyote have lead him and there play the trick on him which have cause him to tumble into the strange river .
But Bowser could n't stand still for long .
Already jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and Bowser know that cold a have be the day , the night would be still colder .
He must keep move until he find a shelter .
If he do n't he would freeze .
So whimpering and whining , Bowser limp along .
Bowser be not afraid to be out at night a some folk be .
Goodness , no !
In fact , on many a moonlight night Bowser have hunt Reddy Fox or Granny Fox all night long .
Never once have he felt lonesome then .
But now it be very , very different .
You see , on those night when he have hunt he always have know where he be .
He have know that at any time he could go straight home if he want to .
That make all the difference in the world .
It would have be bad enough , be lose this way , have he be feel at his best .
Being lose always make one feel terribly lonesome .
Lonesomeness be one of the bad part of the feeling of be lose .
But add to this be the fact that Bowser be really not in fit condition to be out at all .
He be wet , tired , lame and hungry .
Do you wonder that he whimper and whine a he limp along over the hard snow , and have n't the least idea whether he be head towards home or deeper into the great wood ?
For a long time he keep on until it seem to him he could n't drag one foot after another .
Then quite suddenly something big and dark loom up in front of him .
It really be n't as big a it seem .
It be a little house , a sugar camp , just such a one a Farmer Brown have near his home .
Bowser crept to the door .
It be close .
Bowser sniffed and sniffed and his heart sank , for there be no scent of human being .
Then he know that that little house be desert and empty .
Still he whine and scratch at the door .
By and by the door open ever so little , for it have not be lock .
Bowser crept in .
In one corner he find some hay , and in this he curl up .
It be cold , very cold , but not nearly as cold a outside that little house .
So Bowser curl up in the hay and shiver and shook and sleep a little and wish with all his might that he never have find the track of Old Man Coyote .
CHAPTER VI THE SURPRISE OF BLACKY THE CROW The harder it be to follow a trail The great the reason you should not fail .
Bowser the Hound .
At all season of the year Blacky the Crow be something of a traveler .
But in winter he be much more of a traveler than in summer .
You see , in winter it be not nearly so easy to pick up a living .
Food be quite a scarce for Blacky the Crow in winter a for any of the other little people who neither sleep the winter away nor go south .
All of the feathered folk have to work and work hard to find food enough to keep them warm .
You know it be food that make heat in the body .
So in the winter Blacky be in the habit of fly long distance in search of food .
He often go some mile from the thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest where he spend his night .
You may see him start out early in the morning and return late in the afternoon .
Now Blacky know all about that river into which Bowser the Hound have fall .
There be a certain place on that river where Jack Frost never do succeed in make ice .
Sometimes thing good to eat would be wash up along the edge of this open place .
Blacky visit it regularly .
He be on the way there now , fly low over the tree-tops .
Presently he come to a little opening among the tree .
In the middle of it be a little house , a rough little house .
Blacky know all about it .
It be a sugar camp .
He know that only in the spring of the year be he likely to find anybody about there .
All the rest of the year it be shut up .
Every time he pass that way Blacky fly over it .
Blacky 's eye be very sharp indeed , a everybody know .
Now , a he draw near , he notice right away that the door be partly open .
It have n't be that way the last time he pass .
`` Ho ! ''
exclaim Blacky .
`` I wonder if the wind blow that open , or if there be some one inside .
I think I 'll watch a while . ''
So Blacky fly to the top of a tall tree from which he could look all over the little clearing and could watch the door of the little house .
For a long time he sit there as silent a the tree themselves .
Nothing happen .
He begin to grow tire .
Rather , he begin to grow so hungry that he become impatient .
`` If there be anybody in there he must be asleep , '' mutter Blacky to himself .
`` I 'll see if I can wake him up .
Caw , caw , ca-a-w , caw , caw ! ''
Blacky wait a few minute , then repeat his cry .
He do this three time and have just make up his mind that there be nobody inside that little house when a head appear in the doorway .
Blacky be so surprised that he nearly fell from his perch .
`` As I live , '' he mutter , `` that be Bowser the Hound !
It certainly be .
Now what be he do way over here ?
I 've never know him to go so far from home before . ''
CHAPTER VII BLACKY THE CROW TAKES PITY ON BOWSER Beneath a coat of ebon hue May beat a heart that 's kind and true .
The bad of scamp in time of need Will often do a kindly deed .
Bowser the Hound .
`` Caw , ca-a-w ! ''
exclaim Blacky the Crow .
Bowser look up to the top of the tall tree where Blacky sit , and in his great , soft eye be such a look of friendliness that it give Blacky a funny feeling .
You know Blacky be not use to friendly look .
He be use to quite the other kind .
Bowser come out of the old sugar house where he have spend the night and whine softly a he look up at Blacky , and a he whine he wag his tail ever so slightly .
Blacky do n't know what to make of it .
He have never be more surprised in his life .
He do n't know which surprise him most , find Bowser ` way over here where he have no business to be , or Bowser 's friendliness .
As for Bowser , he have spend such a forlorn , miserable night , and he be so terribly lonesome , that the very sound of Blacky 's voice have give him a queer thrill .
Never have he think of Blacky the Crow a a friend .
In fact , he never think much about Blacky at all .
Sometimes he have chase Blacky out of Farmer Brown 's corn-field early in the spring but that be all he ever have have to do with him .
Now , however , lonesome and lose a he be , the sound of a familiar voice make him tingle all over with a friendly feeling .
So he whine softly and wag his tail feebly a he look up at Blacky sit in the top of a tall tree .
Presently Bowser limp out to the middle of the little clearing and turn first this way and then that way .
Then he sit down and howl dismally .
In an instant Blacky the Crow understood ; Bowser be lose .
`` So that 's the trouble , '' mutter Blacky to himself .
`` That silly dog have get himself lose .
I never will be able to understand how anybody can get lose .
I never in my life be lose , and never expect to be .
But it be easy enough to see that Bowser be lose and badly lose .
My goodness , how lame he be !
I wonder what 's happen to him .
Serves him right for hunt other people , but I 'm sorry for him just the same .
What a helpless creature a lose dog be , anyway .
I suppose if he do n't find a house pretty soon he will starve to death .
Old Man Coyote would n't .
Reddy Fox would n't .
They would catch something to eat , no matter where they be .
I suppose they would n't thank me for do it , but just the same I think I 'll take pity on Bowser and help him out of his trouble . ''
CHAPTER VIII HOW BLACKY THE CROW HELPED BOWSER The black coat may cover the kind heart .
Bowser the Hound .
When Blacky the Crow say to himself that he guess he would take pity on Bowser and help him out of his trouble , he know that he could do it without very much trouble to himself .
Perhaps if there have be very much trouble in it , Blacky would not have be quite so ready and willing .
Then again , perhaps it be n't fair to Blacky to think that he might not have be willing .
Even the most selfish people be sometimes kindly and unselfish .
Blacky know just where the near house be .
You can always trust Blacky to know not only where every house be within sight of the place he frequent , but all about the people who live in each house .
Blacky make it his business to know these thing .
He could , if he would , tell you which house have terrible gun in them and which have not .
It be by know such thing that Blacky manage to avoid danger .
`` If that dog know enough to follow me , I 'll take him where he can at least get something to eat , '' mutter Blacky .
`` It wo n't be far out of my way , anyway , because if he have any sense at all , I wo n't have to go all the way over there . ''
So Blacky spread his black wing and disappear over the tree-tops in the direction of the near farmhouse .
Bowser watch him disappear and whine sadly , for somehow it make him feel more lonesome than before .
But for one thing he would have go back to his bed of hay in the corner of that sugar camp .
That one thing be hunger .
It seem to Bowser that his stomach be so empty that the very side of it have fall in .
He just must get something to eat .
So , after wait a moment or two , Bowser turn and limp away through the tree , and he limp in the direction which Blacky the Crow have take .
You see , he could still hear Blacky 's voice call `` Caw , caw , caw '' , and somehow it make him feel well , less lonesome , you know , to be within hearing of a voice he know .
Bowser have to go on three leg , for one leg have be so hurt in the fall over the bank that he could not put his foot to the ground .
Then , too , he be very , very stiff from the cold and the wetting he have receive the night before .
So poor Bowser make slow work of it , and Blacky the Crow almost lose patience wait for him to appear .
As soon a Bowser come in sight , Blacky give what be intend for a cheery caw and then head straight for the place he have start for that morning , give no more thought to Bowser the Hound .
You see , he know that Bowser would shortly come to a road .
`` If he do n't know enough to follow that road , he deserve to starve , '' think Blacky .
Bowser do know enough to follow that road .
The instant he saw that road , he know that if he keep on follow it , it would lead him somewhere .
So with new hope in his heart , Bowser limp along .
CHAPTER IX OLD MAN COYOTE GIVES OUT DARK HINTS A little hint drop there or here , Is like a seed in spring of year ; It sprout and grows , and none may say How big ` twill be some future day .
Bowser the Hound .
After lead Bowser the Hound far , far away and get him lose in strange country , Old Man Coyote trot back to the Old Pasture , the Green Forest , and the Green Meadows near Farmer Brown 's .
He do n't have any trouble at all in find his way back .
You see , all the time he be lead Bowser away , he himself be use his eye and take note of where he be go .
You ca n't lose Old Man Coyote .
No , Sir , you ca n't lose Old Man Coyote , and it be of no use to try .
So , stop two or three time to hunt a little by the way , Old Man Coyote trot back .
He manage to pick up a good meal on the way , and when at last he reach his home in the Old Pasture he be feel very well satisfy with the Great World in general and himself in particular .
He grin a only Old Man Coyote can grin .
`` I do n't think any of u will be bother by that meddlesome Bowser very soon again , '' say he , a he creep into his house for a nap .
`` If he have drown in that river , I should n't have cry over it .
But even a it be , I do n't think he will get back here in a hurry .
I must pass the word along . ''
So a day or so later , when Sammy Jay happen along , Old Man Coyote ask him , in quite a matter-of-fact way , if he have see anything of Bowser the Hound for a day or two .
`` Why do you ask ? ''
say Sammy sharply .
Old Man Coyote grin slyly .
`` For no reason at all , Sammy .
For no reason at all , '' he reply .
`` It just pop into my head that I have n't hear Bowser 's voice for two or three day .
It set me to wonder if he be sick , or if anything have happen to him . ''
That be enough to start Sammy Jay straight for Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Of course Bowser be n't to be see .
Sammy hung around and watch .
Twice he saw Farmer Brown 's boy come to the door with a worried look on his face and hear him whistle and call for Bowser .
Then there be n't the slight doubt in Sammy 's mind that something have happen to Bowser .
`` Old Man Coyote know something about it , too , '' mutter Sammy , a he turn his head on one side and scratch his pointed cap thoughtfully .
`` He ca n't fool me .
That old rascal know where Bowser be , or what have happen to him , and I would n't be a bit surprised if he have something to do with it .
I almost know he do from the way he grin . ''
The day be not half over before all through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows have spread the report that Bowser the Hound be no more .
CHAPTER X HOW REDDY FOX INVESTIGATED In-vest-i-gate if you would know That something be or be n't so .
Bowser the Hound .
To in-vest-i-gate something mean to try to find out about it .
Reddy Fox have hear from so many different one about the disappearance of Bowser that he finally make up his mind that he would in-vest-i-gate and find out for himself if it be true that Bowser be no long at home in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
If it be true , -- well , Reddy have certain plan of his own in regard to Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
Reddy have begin by doubt that story because it seem to have come first from Old Man Coyote .
Reddy would doubt anything with which Old Man Coyote be concern .
But Reddy have finally come to believe that something certainly have happen because half a dozen time during the day he have hear Farmer Brown 's boy whistle and whistle and call and call .
Just as soon a the Black Shadows come creep out from the Purple Hills , Reddy start up towards Farmer Brown 's .
He do n't go directly there , because he never go directly anywhere if there be the least chance in the world that any one may be watch him .
But a he slip along in the blackest of the Black Shadows , he be all the time work nearer and nearer to Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Although he be incline to think it be true that Bowser be not there , he be far too wise to take any unnecessary risk .
He approach Farmer Brown 's dooryard just as carefully a if he know Bowser to be in his little house a usual .
He keep in the Black Shadows .
He crouch so low that he seem hardly more than a Black Shadow himself .
Every two or three step he stop to look , listen , and test the air with his keen nose .
As he draw near Bowser 's own little house , Reddy circle out around it until he could see the doorway .
Then he sit down where he could peek around from behind a tree and watch .
He have be there only a few moment when the back door of Farmer Brown 's house open and Farmer Brown 's boy step out .
Reddy do n't run .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy would never dream that he would dare come so near .
Besides , it be very clear that Farmer Brown 's boy be think of no one but Bowser .
He whistle and call just a he have do several time during the day .
But no Bowser come , so after a while Farmer Brown 's boy go back into the house .
There be a worried look on his face .
As soon a he hear the door close , Reddy trot right out in the open and sit down only a few foot from the black doorway of Bowser 's little house .
Reddy bark softly .
Then he bark a little louder .
He know that if Bowser be at home , that bark would bring him out if nothing else do .
Bowser do n't appear .
Reddy grin .
He be sure now that Bowser be nowhere about .
Chuckling to himself , he turn and trot towards Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
CHAPTER XI A LITTLE UNPLEASANTNESS Watch a Coyote most closely when it appear that he least needs watching .
Bowser the Hound .
Never in his life have Reddy Fox visit Farmer Brown 's henhouse with quite such a comfortable feeling a he now have .
He know for a certainty that Bowser the Hound be not at home .
He know because he have finally creep up and peep in the door of Bowser 's little house .
What have become of Bowser he do n't know , and he do n't care .
It be enough to know that he be n't about .
`` I hope Farmer Brown 's boy have forget to close that little doorway where the hen run in and out , '' mutter Reddy , a he trot across Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Once he stop , and look up at the lighted window of the house , grin .
You see , with Bowser go , Reddy be n't the least bit afraid .
`` If I can get into that henhouse , '' think Reddy , `` I certainly will have one good feast to-night .
That be , I will if those stupid hen be not roost so high that I ca n't get them .
I 'll eat one right there . ''
Reddy 's mouth water at the very thought .
`` Then I 'll take one home to Mrs. Reddy .
If there be time we both will come back for a couple more . ''
So Reddy make pleasant plan a he approach Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
When he reach it he pause to listen to certain sound within , certain fretful little clucking .
Reddy sit down for a minute with his tongue hang out and the water actually drip from it .
He could shut his eye and see those roost with the hen crowd together so that every once in a while one would be waken and fretfully protest against be crowd so .
But Reddy sit there only for a minute .
He be too eager to find out if it would prove to be possible to get inside that henhouse .
Running swiftly but cautiously past the henhouse and along one side of the henyard , he peep around the corner to see if by any chance the yard gate have be leave open .
His heart give a leap of joy a he saw that the gate be not quite close .
All he would have to do would be to push it and enter .
Reddy turn the corner quickly .
Just a he put up one paw to push the gate open , a low but decidedly ugly growl make him jump back with every hair of his coat stand on end .
His first thought be of Bowser .
It must be that Bowser have return !
Believing in safety first , Reddy do not stop to see who have growl , but run swiftly a short distance .
Then he look behind him .
Over at the gate of Farmer Brown 's henyard he could see a dark form .
At once Reddy know that it be n't Bowser the Hound , for it have a bushy tail , while Bowser 's be smooth .
Reddy know who it be .
It be Old Man Coyote .
-LSB- Illustration : OVER AT THE GATE OF FARMER BROWN 'S HENYARD HE COULD SEE A DARK FORM -RSB- CHAPTER XII THE CLEVERNESS OF OLD MAN COYOTE Who think the quick and the best Is bind to win in every test .
Bowser the Hound .
The meeting of Reddy Fox and Old Man Coyote just outside the gate to Farmer Brown 's henyard have be wholly unexpected to both .
Reddy have be so eager to get inside that gate that when he turn the corner at the henyard he have n't look beyond the gate .
If he have look beyond , he would have see Old Man Coyote just come around the other corner .
As for Old Man Coyote , he have be so surprised at sight of Reddy Fox that he have growl before he have have time to think .
He be sorry the very instant he do it .
`` That certainly be a stupid thing to do , '' mutter Old Man Coyote to himself , a he watch Reddy Fox run away in a panic .
`` I should have keep out of sight and let him open that gate and go inside first .
There may be trap in there , for all I know .
When there 's likely to be danger , always let some one else find it out for you if you can . ''
Old Man Coyote grin a he say this .
Reddy Fox sit down at a safe distance to watch what Old Man Coyote would do .
Inside , Reddy be fairly boil with disappointment and anger .
He felt that he hat Old Man Coyote more than he hat anybody else he know of .
He hat him , yet there be n't a thing he could do about it .
He do n't dare fight Old Man Coyote .
All he could do be to sit there at a safe distance and watch .
The gate of the henyard be open two or three inch .
For a long time Old Man Coyote stand look through that little opening .
Once or twice he thrust his nose out and sniff cautiously around the gate , but he take the great care not to touch it .
Finally he turn and trot away towards the Green Forest .
Reddy sit right where he be , so surprised that he could n't even think .
He wait a long time to see if Old Man Coyote would return , but Old Man Coyote do n't return , and at last Reddy cautiously creep towards that unlocked gate .
`` I do believe that fellow do n't know enough to push that gate open , '' mutter Reddy to himself .
`` I always suppose Old Man Coyote be smart , but if this be an example of his smartness I 'll match my wit against his any day . ''
All this time Old Man Coyote be not so far away a Reddy think .
He have go only fat enough to make sure that Reddy could n't see him .
Then , creep along in the blackest of the Black Shadows , he have return to a place where he could watch Reddy .
`` It 's queer that gate should have be leave unlocked , '' think Old Man Coyote .
`` It may have be an accident , and again it may have be do purposely .
There may not be any danger inside ; then again there may .
I 'm not go to push that gate open or step inside when there be some one to do it for me .
I 'll just leave it for Reddy Fox to do . ''
CHAPTER XIII THE MISCHIEVOUS LITTLE NIGHT BREEZE A little act of mischief can Upset the deep , best laid plan .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox be very pleased with himself a he think how much smarter he be than Old Man Coyote .
He do n't waste any time in push open the henyard gate .
It do n't enter his head that there might be a trap inside .
He be so eager to find out if the little door where in daytime the hen run in and out of the henhouse be open , that he jump inside the henyard just as soon a the gate be push open wide enough for him to enter .
Old Man Coyote , watch from his hide place , saw Reddy push the gate open and enter the henyard .
`` So far , so good , '' mutter Old Man Coyote to himself .
`` There be n't any trap just inside that gate , so it will be safe enough for me to follow Reddy in there .
I think I 'll wait a bit , however , and see what luck he have in get into the henhouse .
If he catch a chicken he wo n't stop to eat it there .
He wo n't dare to .
All I need do be to wait right here around the corner , and if he bring a chicken out , I 'll simply tell him to drop it .
Then I will have the chicken and will have run no risk . ''
You see Old Man Coyote be a very , very clever old sinner .
So Old Man Coyote peek through the wire and watch Reddy Fox , who think himself so much smarter , steal swiftly across to the henhouse and try that little door .
It be close , but it be n't fasten , a Reddy could tell by poke at it .
`` It be just a matter of time and patience , '' mutter Reddy to himself .
`` If I keep at it long enough , I can work it open . ''
You see Reddy have do that very thing once before a great while ago .
So he set himself to work with such patience a he could , and all the time Old Man Coyote watch and wonder what Reddy be do .
He guess that Reddy be have some trouble , but also he know from Reddy 's action that Reddy hop to get inside that henhouse .
Now Reddy have leave the henyard gate ajar .
If he have push it wide open thing might have be different .
But he do n't push it wide open .
He leave it only halfway open .
By and by there happen along a mischievous little Night Breeze .
There be nothing that a mischievous little Night Breeze enjoy more than make thing move .
This mischievous little Night Breeze find that that gate would swing , so it blow against that gate and blew and blew until suddenly , with a sharp little click , the gate close and the spring latch snap into place .
Reddy Fox be a prisoner !
CHAPTER XIV THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BEING INSIDE AND OUTSIDE You 'll find ` twill often come about That he who 's in fain would be out .
Bowser the Hound .
It certainly be queer what a difference there be between be inside and outside .
Sometimes happiness be inside and sometimes it be outside .
Sometimes the one who be inside wish with all his might that he be outside , and sometimes the one who be outside would give anything in the world to be inside .
Just take the case of Reddy Fox .
He have steal inside of Farmer Brown 's henyard , leave the gate halfway open .
He have set himself to work to open the little sliding door through which in the daytime the hen pass in and out of the henhouse .
As he work he have be fill with great contentment and joy .
He know that Bowser the Hound have disappear .
He felt sure that there be nothing to fear , and he fully expect to dine that night on chicken .
Then along come a mischievous little Night Breeze and swing that gate shut .
At the click of the latch Reddy turn his head , and in a flash he saw what have happen .
All in an instant everything have change for Reddy Fox .
Fear and despair take the place of contentment and happy anticipation .
He be a prisoner inside that henyard .
Frantically Reddy rush over to the gate .
There be n't even a crack through which he could thrust his sharp little nose .
Then , beside himself with fear , he race around that henyard , seek a hole through which he might escape .
There be n't any hole .
That fence have be build to keep out such people a Reddy Fox , and of course a fence that would keep Reddy out would also keep him in , if he happen to be catch inside a he now be .
He could n't dig down under it , because , you know , the ground be frozen hard and cover with snow and an icy crust .
He be catch , and that be all there be to it .
Suddenly Reddy become aware of some one just outside the wire fence , look in and grin wickedly .
It be Old Man Coyote .
Between them be nothing but that wire , but , oh , what a difference !
Reddy be inside and a prisoner .
Old Man Coyote be outside and free .
`` Good evening , Reddy , '' say Old Man Coyote .
`` I hope you 'll enjoy your chicken dinner .
When you be eat it , just think over this bit of advice : Never take a risk when you can get some one else to take it for you .
I would like a chicken dinner myself , but a it be , I think I will enjoy a Mouse or two good .
Pay my respect to Farmer Brown 's boy when he come in the morning . ''
With this , Old Man Coyote once more grinned that wicked grin of his and trot away towards the Green Forest .
Reddy watch him disappear and would have give anything in the world to have be outside the fence in his place instead of inside , where he then be .
CHAPTER XV REDDY 'S FORLORN CHANCE This saying be both true and terse : There 's nothing bad but might be bad .
Bowser the Hound .
If any one have say this to Reddy Fox during the first half hour after he discover that he be a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's henyard , he would n't have believe it .
He would n't have believe a word of it .
He would have say that he could n't possibly have be bad off than he be .
He be a prisoner , and he could n't possibly get out .
He know that in the morning Farmer Brown 's boy would certainly discover him .
It could n't be otherwise .
That be , it could n't be otherwise as long a he remain in that henyard .
There be n't a thing , not one solitary thing , under or behind which he could hide .
So , to Reddy 's way of thinking , thing could n't possibly have be bad .
But after a while , have nothing else to do , Reddy begin to think .
Now it be surprising how thinking will change matter .
One of the first thought that come to Reddy be that he might have be catch in a trap , -- one of those cruel trap that close like a pair of jaw and sometimes break the bone of the foot or leg , and from which there be no escape .
Right away Reddy realize that to have be so caught would have be much bad than be a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's henyard .
This make him feel just a wee , wee bit well , and he begin to do some more thinking .
For a long time his thinking do n't help him in the least .
At last , however , he remember the chicken dinner he have felt so sure he be go to enjoy .
The thought of the chicken dinner remind him that inside the henhouse it be dark .
He have be inside that henhouse before , and he know that there be box in there .
If he be inside the henhouse , it might be , it just might possibly be , that he could hide when Farmer Brown 's boy come in the morning .
So once more Reddy go to work at that little sliding door where the hen run in and out during the day .
He already have find out that it be n't fasten , and he felt sure that with patience he could open it .
So he work away and work away , until at last there be a little crack .
He get his claw in the little crack and pull and pull .
The little crack become a little wider .
By and by it be wide enough for him to get his whole paw in .
Then it become wide enough for him to get his head half in .
After this , all he have to do be to force himself through , for a he push and shove , the little door open .
He be inside at last !
There be a chance , just a forlorn chance , that he might be able to escape the notice of Farmer Brown 's boy in the morning .
CHAPTER XVI WHY REDDY WENT WITHOUT A CHICKEN DINNER A dinner be far good lose Than eat at too great a cost .
Bowser the Hound .
Can you imagine Reddy Fox with a chicken dinner right before him and not touch it ?
Well , that be just what happen in Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It be n't because Reddy have no appetite .
He be hungry , very hungry .
He always be in winter .
Then it do n't often happen that he get enough to eat at one meal to really fill his stomach .
Yet here he be with a chicken dinner right before him , and he do n't touch it .
You see it be this way : Reddy 's wit be work very fast there in Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He know that he have only a forlorn chance of escape when Farmer Brown 's boy should come to open the henhouse in the morning .
He know that he must make the most of that forlorn chance .
He know that freedom be a thousand time well than a full stomach .
On one of the low roost sit a fat hen .
She be within easy jump distance .
Reddy know that with one quick spring she would be his .
If the henyard gate have be open , he would have waste no time in make that one quick spring .
But the henyard gate , a you know , be close fast .
`` I 'm awfully hungry , '' mutter Reddy to himself , `` but if I should catch and eat that fat hen , Farmer Brown 's boy would be sure to notice the feather on the floor the very minute he open the door .
It wo n't do , Reddy ; it wo n't do .
You ca n't afford to have the least little thing seem wrong in this henhouse .
What you have get to do be to swallow your appetite and keep quiet in the dark corner you can find , '' So Reddy Fox spend the rest of the night curl up in the dark corner , partly behind a box .
All the time his nose be fill with the smell of fat hen .
Every little while a hen who be be crowd too much on the roost would stir uneasily and protest in a sleepy voice .
Just think of what Reddy suffer .
Just think how you would feel to be very , very hungry and have right within reach the one thing you like best in all the world to eat and then not dare touch it .
Some foolish folk in Reddy 's place would have eat that dinner and trust to luck to get out of trouble later .
But Reddy be far too wise to do anything of that kind .
Doing a Reddy do that night be call exercise self-restraint .
Everybody should be able to do it .
But it sometimes seem a if very many people can not do it .
Anyway , they do n't do it , and because they do n't do it they be forever get into trouble .
Reddy know when morning come , although the henhouse be still dark .
Somehow or other hen always know just when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun kick his blanket off and begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
The big rooster on the topmost perch stretch his long neck , flap his wing , and crow at the top of his voice .
Reddy shiver .
`` It wo n't be long now before Farmer Brown 's boy come , '' think he .
CHAPTER XVII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY DROPS A PAN OF CORN Who when surprised keep calm and cool Is one most difficult to fool .
Bowser the Hound .
In his lifetime Reddy Fox have spend many anxious moment , but none more anxious than those in which he wait for Farmer Brown 's boy to open the henhouse and fee the biddy on this particular morning .
From the moment when the big rooster on the topmost perch stretch forth his neck , flap his wing , and crow a only he can crow , Reddy be on pin and needle , a the saying be .
Hiding behind a box in the dark corner of the henhouse , he hardly dare to breathe .
You see , he do n't want those hen to discover him .
He know that if they do they would make such a racket that they would bring Farmer Brown 's boy hurry out to find out what the trouble be .
Reddy have have experience with hen before .
He know that if Farmer Brown 's boy hear them make a great racket , he would know that something be wrong , and he would come all prepared .
This be the one thing that Reddy do not want .
His one chance to escape would be to take Farmer Brown 's boy entirely by surprise .
Never have time drag more slowly .
The hen be awake , and several of them fly down to the floor of the henhouse .
They pass so close to where Reddy be hide that merely by reach out a black paw he could have touch them .
Because he take particular pain not to move , not even to twitch a black ear , they do not see him .
Anyway , if they do see him , they take no notice of him .
How the moment do drag !
All the time he lay there listen , wish that Farmer Brown 's boy would come , yet dread to have him come .
It seem age before he hear sound which tell him that people be awake in Farmer Brown 's house .
Finally he hear a distant door slam .
Then he hear a whistle , a merry whistle .
It draw nearer and nearer ; Farmer Brown 's boy be come to fee the hen .
Reddy try to hold his breath .
He hear the click of the henyard gate a Farmer Brown 's boy open it , then he hear the crunch , crunch , crunch of Farmer Brown 's boy 's foot on the snow .
Suddenly the henhouse door be throw open and Farmer Brown 's boy step inside .
In his hand he hold a pan fill with the breakfast he have bring for the hen .
Suddenly a box in the dark corner of the henhouse move .
Farmer Brown 's boy turn to look , and a he do so a slim form dash fairly between his leg .
It startle him so that he drop the pan and spill the corn all over the henhouse floor .
`` Great Scott ! ''
he exclaim .
`` What under the sun be that ? ''
and rush to the door to see .
He be just in time to get a glimpse of a red coat and a bushy tail disappear around a corner of the barn .
CHAPTER XVIII MUTUAL RELIEF The wise Fox know that with every chicken he steal he put an increased price on his own skin .
Bowser the Hound .
When Reddy Fox dash between the leg of Farmer Brown 's boy and out of the open door of the henhouse , it be with his heart in his mouth .
At least , it seem that way .
Would he find the henyard gate open ?
Supposing Farmer Brown 's boy have close it after he enter !
Reddy would then be a prisoner just a he have be all night , and all hope would end .
Just imagine with what terrible anxiety and eagerness Reddy look towards that gate a he dash out of the open door .
Just imagine the relief that be his when he saw that the gate be open .
In that very instant the snowy outside world become more beautiful and wonderful than ever it have be in all his life before .
He be free !
free !
free !
If ever there be a surprised boy , that boy be Farmer Brown 's a he watch Reddy twist around a corner of the barn and disappear .
`` Reddy Fox ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Now how under the sun do that rascal get in here ? ''
Then , a he realize that Reddy have actually be inside the henhouse , anxiety for the biddy sweep over him .
Hastily he turn , fully expect to see either the body of two or three hen on the floor , or scatter feather to show that Reddy have enjoy a midnight feast .
There be no feather , and so far a he could see , all the hen be stand or walk about .
At once Farmer Brown 's boy begin to count them .
Of course , he know exactly how many there should be .
When he get through counting , not one be miss .
Farmer Brown 's boy be puzzle .
He count them again .
Then he count them a third time .
He begin to think there must be something wrong with his counting .
After the fourth count , however , he be force to believe that not a single one be miss .
If Reddy Fox have be relieve when he discover that henyard gate open , Farmer Brown 's boy be equally relieve when he find that not a single biddie have be take .
When two people be relieve at the same time , it be call mutual relief .
But there be this difference between Reddy Fox and Farmer Brown 's boy : Reddy know all about what have happen , and Farmer Brown 's boy could n't even guess .
He go all around that henhouse , try to find a way by which Reddy Fox have manage to get in .
Of course , he discover that the little sliding door where the biddy go in and out of the henhouse be open .
He guess that this be the way by which Reddy have enter .
But this do n't explain matter at all .
He know that the gate have be latch when he enter the henyard that morning .
How have Reddy manage to get into that henyard with that gate close ?
To this day , Farmer Brown 's boy be still wonder .
CHAPTER XIX WHERE WAS BOWSER THE HOUND ?
A good Hound never bark on a cold trail .
Bowser the Hound .
Where be Bowser the Hound ?
That be the question which be puzzle all the little people who know him .
Also it be puzzle Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown and Mrs. Brown .
I have say that it be puzzle all the little people who know him .
This be not quite true , because there be two who could at least guess what have become of Bowser .
One be Old Man Coyote , who have , a you remember , lead Bowser far away and get him lose .
The other be Blacky the Crow , who have discover Bowser in his trouble and have help him .
Old Man Coyote do n't know exactly where Bowser be , and he be n't interested enough to think much about it .
He hop that Bowser have be so badly lose that he never would return .
Blacky the Crow know exactly where Bowser be , but he keep it to himself .
It please Blacky to have a secret which other people would give much to know .
Blacky be one of those people who can keep a secret .
He be n't at all like Peter Rabbit .
Reddy Fox be one who be very much interested in the fate of Bowser the Hound .
As day after day go by and Bowser do not appear , Reddy have a grow hope that he never would appear .
`` I ca n't imagine what Old Man Coyote could have do to Bowser , '' say Reddy to himself .
`` He certainly could n't have kill Bowser in a fight , for that old rascal would never in the world dare face Bowser the Hound in a fight .
But he certainly have cause something to happen to Bowser .
If that bothersome dog never return , it certainly will make thing a lot easy for Granny Fox and myself . ''
As for Farmer Brown 's boy , he be as much puzzle a any of the little people and a whole lot more worried .
He drive all about the neighborhood , ask at every house if anything have be see of Bowser , Nowhere do he get any trace of him .
No one have see him .
It be very mysterious .
Farmer Brown 's boy have begin to suspect that Bowser have meet with an accident somewhere off in the wood and have be unable to get help .
It make Farmer Brown 's boy very sad indeed .
His cheery whistle be no longer hear , for he do not feel like whistle .
At last he quite give up hope of ever again see Bowser .
CHAPTER XX WHERE BOWSER WAS When thing be at their very worst , As bad , you think , a they can be , Just lay aside your feeling sad ; The road ahead may turn , you see .
Bowser the Hound .
You remember that Blacky the Crow lead poor Bowser to an old road and there leave him .
Blacky reason that if Bowser have any sense at all , he would know that that road must lead somewhere and would follow it .
If he do n't have sense enough to do this , he deserve to starve or freeze , be the way Blacky reason it out .
Of course Blacky know exactly where the road would lead .
Now Bowser do have sense .
Of course he do .
The minute he find that road , a great load be take from his mind .
He no longer felt wholly lose .
He be certain that all he have to do be to keep in that road , and sooner or later he would come to a house .
The thing that worry him most be whether or not he would have strength enough to keep go until he reach that house .
You remember that he be weak from lack of food , lame , and half frozen .
Poor old Bowser !
He certainly be the picture of misery a he limp along that road .
His tail hung down as if he have n't strength enough to hold it up .
His head also hang low .
He walk on three leg and limp with one of these .
In his eye be such a look of pain and suffering as would have touch the hard heart .
He whine and whimper a he limp along .
It seem to him that he have go a terribly long distance , though really it be not far at all , when something tickle his nose , that wonderful nose which can smell the track of others long after they have pass .
But this time it be n't the smell of a track that tickle his nose ; it be something in the air .
Bowser lift his head and sniffed long and hard .
What he smell be smoke .
He know what that meant .
Somewhere not very far ahead of him be a house .
-LSB- Illustration : SOMEWHERE NOT VERY FAR AHEAD OF HIM WAS A HOUSE .
Page 96 .
-RSB- With new hope and courage Bowser try to hurry on .
Presently around a turn of the road he saw a farmyard .
The smell of the smoke from the chimney of the farmhouse be strong now , and with it be mingle an appetizing smell of thing cook .
Into Bowser 's whimper there now creep a little note of eagerness a he drag himself across the farmyard and up to the back door .
There his strength quite leave him .
He do n't have enough leave to even bark .
All he could do be whine .
After what seem a long , long time the door open , and a motherly woman stand look down at him .
Two minute later Bowser lay on a mat close by the kitchen stove .
CHAPTER XXI BOWSER BECOMES A PRISONER There be no one in all the Great World more faithful than a faithful dog .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser the Hound be a prisoner .
Yes , Sir , Bowser be a sure-enough prisoner .
But there be a great difference in prison .
Bowser be a prisoner of kindness .
It seem funny that kindness should ever make any one a prisoner , but it be so sometimes .
You see , it be this way : When Bowser have be take in to that strange farmhouse , he have be so use up that he have have only strength enough to very feebly wag his tail .
Right away the people in that farmhouse know what have happen to Bowser .
That be , they know part of what have happen to him .
They know that he have be lose and have somehow hurt one leg .
They be very , very good to him .
They feed him , and make a comfortable bed for him , and rub something on the leg which he have hurt and which have swell .
Almost right away after eat Bowser go to sleep and sleep and sleep and sleep .
It be the very best thing he could have do .
The next day he felt a whole lot well , but he be so stiff and lame that he could hardly move .
He do n't try very much .
He be pet and care for quite as tenderly a he would have be at his own home .
So several day pass , and Bowser be begin to feel more like himself .
The more he felt like himself , the more he want to go home .
It be n't that there he would receive any great kindness than he be now receive , but home be home and there be no place like it .
So Bowser begin to be uneasy .
`` This dog do n't belong anywhere around here , '' say the man of the house .
`` I know every Hound for mile around , and I never have see this one before .
He have come a long distance .
It will not do to let him go , for he will try to find his way home and the chance be that he will again get lose .
We must keep him in the house or chain up .
Perhaps some day we may be able to find his owner .
If not , we will keep him .
I be sure he will soon become content here . ''
Now that man know dog .
Had Bowser have the chance , he would have do exactly what that man have say .
He would have try to find his way home , and he have n't the least idea in the world in which direction home lay .
But he do n't get the chance to try .
When he be allow to run out of door it be always with some one to watch him .
He be pet and baby and make a great deal of , but he know all the time that he be a prisoner .
He know that if he be to get away at all he would have to sneak away , and somehow there never seem a chance to do this .
He be grateful to these kindly people , but down in his heart be a great longing for Farmer Brown 's boy and home .
He always felt this longing just a wee bit strong when Blacky the Crow pass over and caw .
CHAPTER XXII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY LOOKS IN VAIN Loyalty be priceless and Is neither sell nor buy .
Alas , how few who seem to know Its value a they ought .
Bowser the Hound .
As I have tell you , Farmer Brown 's boy have be all about the neighborhood ask at each farmhouse if anything have be see of Bowser .
Of course nothing have be see of him , and so at last Farmer Brown 's boy felt sure that something dreadful have happen to Bowser in the wood .
For several day he tramp through the Green Forest and up through the Old Pasture , look for sign of Bowser .
His heart be heavy , for you know Bowser be quite one of the family .
He visit every place he could think of where he and Bowser have hunt together .
He know that by this time Bowser could n't possibly be alive if he have be catch by a foot in a trap or have meet with an accident in the wood .
He have quite give up all hope of ever see Bowser alive again .
But he do want to know just what have happen to him , and so he keep search and search .
One day Farmer Brown 's boy heard that a strange dog have be find over in the next township .
That afternoon he drive over there , his heart fill with great hope .
But he have his long ride for nothing , for when he get there he find that the strange dog be not Bowser at all .
Meanwhile Old Man Coyote and Reddy Fox and Old Granny Fox have become very bold .
They even come up around the henyard in broad daylight .
`` I believe you know something about what have become of Bowser , '' Farmer Brown 's boy say , a he chase Old Man Coyote away one day .
`` You certainly know that he be n't home , and I more than suspect that you know why he be n't home .
I certainly shall have to get another dog to teach you not to be so bold . ''
But somehow Farmer Brown 's boy could n't bring himself quite to take such a step a get a new dog .
He felt that no other dog ever could take Bowser 's place , and in spite of the fact that he think he have give up all hope of ever see Bowser again , ` way down deep inside be something which , if it be not hope , be something enough like it to keep him from get another dog in Bowser 's place .
Whenever he go about away from home , he keep an eye out for dog in the farmyard he pass .
He do it without really think anything about it .
He have give up hope of find Bowser , yet he be always look for him .
CHAPTER XXIII BOWSER 'S GREAT VOICE To long for home when far away Will rob of joy the bright day .
Bowser the Hound .
There be as much difference in the voice of dog a in the voice of human being .
For that matter , this be true of many of the little people who wear fur .
Bowser the Hound have a wonderful , deep , clear voice , a voice that could be hear a great distance .
No one who know it would ever mistake it for the voice of any other Hound .
As a rule , Bowser seldom use that great voice of his save when he be hunt some one .
Then , when the scent be strong , he give tongue so fast that you wonder how he have breath enough leave to run .
But now that he be a prisoner of kindness , in the home of the people who have take him in when he have creep to their doorstep , Bowser sometimes bay from sheer homesickness .
When he be tie out in the yard , he would sometimes get to think of his home and long to see Farmer Brown and Mrs. Brown and especially his master , Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then , when he could stand it no longer , he would open his mouth and send his great voice roll across to the wood with a tone of mournfulness which never have be there before .
But great a be Bowser 's voice , and far a it would carry , there be none who know him to hear it , save Blacky the Crow .
You remember that Blacky know just where Bowser be and often fly over that farmyard to make sure that Bowser be still there .
So more than once Blacky hear Bowser 's great voice with it mournful note , and understand it .
It trouble Blacky .
Yes , Sir , it actually trouble Blacky .
He know just what be the matter with Bowser , but for the life of him he could n't think of any way of help Bowser .
`` That dog be homesick , '' croak Blacky , a he sit in the top of a tall tree , scratch his head a if he think he might scratch an idea out of it .
`` Of course he do n't know how to get home , and if he try he probably would get a badly lose a he be before .
Anyway , they do n't give him a chance to try .
I ca n't lead Farmer Brown 's boy over here because he do n't understand my talk , and I do n't understand his .
There be n't a thing I can do but keep watch .
I wish Bowser would stop barking .
It make me feel uncomfortable .
Yes , Sir , it make me feel uncomfortable .
Old Man Coyote get Bowser into this trouble , and he ought to get him out again , but I do n't suppose it be the least bit of use to ask him .
It wo n't do any harm to try , anyway . ''
So Blacky start back for the Green Forest and the Old Pasture near Farmer Brown 's to look for Old Man Coyote , and for a long time a he fly he could hear Bowser 's voice with it note of homesickness and longing .
CHAPTER XXIV BLACKY TRIES TO GET HELP You 'll find that nothing more worth while can be Than help others whose distress you see .
Bowser the Hound .
On his way back to the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's home , Blacky the Crow keep a sharp watch for Old Man Coyote .
But Old Man Coyote be nowhere to be see , and it be too late to go look for him , because jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have already go to bed behind the Purple Hills and the Black Shadows be hurry towards the Green Forest .
Blacky never be out after dark .
You might think that one with so black a coat would be fond of the Black Shadows , but it be n't so at all .
The fact be , bold and impudent a Blacky the Crow be in daylight , he be afraid of the dark .
He be quite as timid a anybody I know of in the dark .
So Blacky always contrive to go to bed early and be securely hidden away in his secret roosting-place by the time the Black Shadows reach the edge of the Green Forest .
Perhaps it be n't quite fair to say that Blacky be afraid of the dark .
It be n't the dark itself that Blacky fear , but it be one who be abroad in the dark .
It be Hooty the Owl .
Hooty would just as soon dine on Blacky the Crow a he would on any one else , and Blacky know it .
The next morning , bright and early , Blacky fly over to the Old Pasture to the home of Old Man Coyote .
Just a he get there he saw Old Man Coyote come home from an all-night hunt .
`` I hope you have have good hunting , '' say Blacky politely .
Old Man Coyote look up at Blacky sharply .
Blacky be polite only when he want to get something .
`` There be plenty of hunting , but little enough reward for it , '' reply Old Man Coyote .
`` What bring you over here so early ?
I should suppose you would be look for a breakfast . ''
Now Blacky the Crow be a very wise fellow .
He know when it be to be sly and crafty and when it be best to be frank and out-spoken .
This be a time for the latter .
`` I know where Bowser the Hound be , '' say Blacky .
`` I saw him yesterday . ''
Old Man Coyote prick up his ear and grin .
`` I think he be dead , '' say he .
`` It 's a long time since we 've hear from Bowser .
Is he well ? ''
`` Quite well , '' reply Blacky , `` but unhappy .
He be homesick .
I suspect that the trouble with Bowser be that he have n't the least idea in which direction home lie .
You enjoy run , so why not go with me to pay Bowser a visit and then lead him back home ? ''
Old Man Coyote throw back his head and laugh in that crazy fashion of his till the very hill rang with the sound of his voice .
CHAPTER XXV BLACKY CALLS ON REDDY FOX Saying what you mean , and mean what you say Are matter quite as different a night be from the day .
Bowser the Hound .
Blacky the Crow waste no time with Old Man Coyote after he hear Old Man Coyote laugh .
There be a note in that crazy laugh of Old Man Coyote 's that tell Blacky he might just as well talk to the rock or the tree about help Bowser the Hound .
Old Man Coyote have lead Bowser into his trouble , and it be quite clear that not only do he have no regret , but he be actually glad that Bowser be not likely to return .
`` You 're a hard-hearted old sinner , '' declare Blacky , a he prepare to fly in search of Reddy Fox .
Old Man Coyote grin .
`` It be every one for himself , you know , '' say he .
`` Bowser would do his best to catch me if he have the chance .
So if he be in trouble , he can stay there for all of me . ''
It do n't take Blacky long to find Reddy Fox .
You see , it be so early in the morning that Reddy have not retire for his daily nap .
Like Old Man Coyote , he be just return from a night 's hunt when Blacky arrive .
`` Hello , Reddy ! ''
exclaim Blacky .
`` You certainly be look in mighty fine condition .
That red coat of yours be the handsome coat I 've ever see .
If I have a coat like that I know I should be so swell up with pride that I just would n't be able to see common folk .
I 'm glad you 're not that way , Reddy .
One of the thing I like about you be the fact that you never allow your fine coat to make you proud .
That be more than I can say for some folk I know . ''
Reddy Fox sit down with his big bushy tail curl around to keep his toe warm , cock his head on one side , and look up at Blacky the Crow a if he be try to see right inside that black head to find out what be go on there .
`` Now what have that black scamp get in his mind , '' think Reddy .
`` He never pay compliment unless he want something in return .
That old black rascal have the smooth tongue in the Green Forest .
He have n't come ` way over here just to tell me that I have a handsome coat .
He would n't fly over a fence to tell anybody that unless it be for a purpose . ''
Aloud he say , `` Good morning , Blacky .
I suppose I must admit I have a fine coat .
Perhaps I do look very fine , but if you could see under this red coat of mine , you would find mighty little meat on my rib .
To be quite honest , I be not feel half as fine a I look .
You lucky fellow who can fly and do n't have to think about distance may be able to live well these day , but a for me , I 've forget when last I have a good meal . ''
CHAPTER XXVI RED WITS AND BLACK WITS This fact you 'll find be always so : He 's quick of wit who fool a Crow .
Bowser the Hound .
There be no great flatterer in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows than Blacky the Crow when he hop to gain something thereby .
His tongue be so smooth that it be a wonder it do not drip oil .
He be crafty , be Blacky .
But these same thing be true of Reddy Fox .
No one ever yet have a chance to accuse Reddy Fox of lack in sharp wit .
Mistakes he make , a everybody do , but Reddy 's wit be always keen and active .
Now Reddy know perfectly well that Blacky want something of him , and this be why he be say such pleasant thing .
Blacky the Crow know that Reddy know this thing , and that if he would make use of Reddy a he hop to , he must contrive to keep Reddy wholly in the dark a to what he want do .
So a they sit there , Reddy Fox on the snow with his tail curl around his foot to keep them warm , and Blacky the Crow in the top of a little tree above Reddy 's head , they be play a sort of game .
It be red wit against black wit .
Reddy be try to outguess Blacky , and Blacky be try to outguess Reddy , and both be enjoy it .
People with sharp wit always enjoy match their wit against other sharp wit .
When Reddy Fox say that in spite of his fine appearance he have forget when last he have have a good meal , Blacky pretend to think he be joke .
`` You surprise me , '' say he .
`` Whatever be the matter with my good friend Reddy , that he go hungry when he no longer have anything to fear from Bowser the Hound .
By the way , I saw Bowser the other day . ''
At this , just for an instant , Reddy 's eye fly wide open .
Then they half close again until they be just two yellow slit .
But quickly a he close them , Blacky have see that startled surprise .
`` Yes , '' say Blacky , `` I saw Bowser the other day , or at least some one who look just like him .
Would n't you like to have him back here , Reddy ? ''
`` Most decidedly no , '' reply Reddy with great promptness .
`` A dog be a nuisance .
He be n't of any use in the wide , wide world . ''
`` Not even to drive off Old Man Coyote ? ''
ask Blacky slyly , for he know that more than once Bowser the Hound have help Reddy out of trouble with Old Man Coyote .
Reddy pretend not to hear this .
`` I do n't believe you saw Bowser , '' say he .
`` I do n't believe anybody will ever see Bowser again .
I hope not , anyway . ''
And Blacky knew by the way Reddy say this that it would be quite useless to ask Reddy to help get Bowser home .
CHAPTER XXVII THE ARTFULNESS OF BLACKY Who run in circle never get far .
Bowser the Hound .
To be artful be to be very clever .
It be to do thing in a way so clever that people will not see what you be really do .
No one can be more artful than Blacky the Crow when he set out to be .
Blacky be smart enough not to let Reddy know that he be seek Reddy 's help for Bowser .
He soon find out that Reddy would not knowingly help the least little bit , so he decide at once that the only thing for him to do be to get Reddy to help unsuspectingly .
He change the subject very abruptly .
`` How be the chicken at Farmer Brown 's ? ''
inquire he .
Reddy look up and grin .
`` They seem to be in just a good health a ever , '' say he , `` so far a I can judge .
Farmer Brown 's boy seem to be terribly suspicious .
He lock them up at night so tight that not even Shadow the Weasel could get his nose inside that henhouse . ''
Blacky 's eye twinkle , but he take care that Reddy should not see them .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy be different from some folk I know , '' say he .
`` How 's that ? ''
demand Reddy Fox .
`` Why , '' reply Blacky , `` there be a certain farmyard I know of where the hen be not keep shut up at all in the daytime , but run around where they please .
I see them every day when I be fly over .
They certainly be fine-looking hen .
I do n't think I 've ever see fatter one .
Some of them be so fat they can hardly run . ''
As Reddy Fox listen , a look of eagerness crept into his eye , and his mouth begin to water .
He just could n't help it .
`` Where do you say those hen be ? ''
he ask , try to speak carelessly .
`` I do n't say , '' reply Blacky , turn his head aside to hide a grin .
`` It be a long way from here , Reddy , so I do n't believe you would really be interested . ''
`` That all depends , '' reply Reddy .
`` I would go a long way if it be worth while .
I do n't suppose you notice if there be any dog about where those hen be ? ''
Blacky pretend not to hear this .
`` I 've often think , '' say he , `` of you and Mrs. Reddy a I have look down at those fat hen .
It be too bad that they be so far away . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII REDDY FOX DREAMS OF CHICKENS It 's a poor watch-dog who sleep with both eye close .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox watch Blacky the Crow grow small and small until he be just a black speck in the distance .
Finally he disappear .
Reddy look very thoughtful .
He look that way because he be thoughtful .
In fact , Reddy be do a lot of hard thinking .
He be think about those chicken Blacky have tell him of .
The more he think of them , the hungrier he grow .
You see , Reddy have be have rather a hard time to get enough to eat .
`` Yes , Sir , '' say Reddy to himself , `` I would go a long , long distance to get a good plump hen .
I wish I know just where that farm be that that black rascal talk about .
I wonder if he have go that way now .
If I be sure that he have , I would make a little journey in that direction myself .
But I 'm not sure .
That black rascal fly all over the country .
That farm may lie in the direction he have go now , and it may be in quite the opposite direction .
Somehow I 've get to find out in just which direction it be . ''
Reddy yawn , for he have be out all night , and he be sleepy .
He decide that the best thing he could do would be to get a good rest .
One must always be fit if one be to get on in this life .
The hard one must work , the more fit one should keep , and a proper amount of sleep be one of the most necessary thing in keep fit .
So Reddy curl up to sleep .
Hardly have his eye close when he begin to dream .
You see , he have be think so hard about those fat hen , and he be so hungry for one of them , that right away he begin to dream of fat hen .
It be a beautiful dream .
At least , it be a beautiful dream to Reddy .
Fat hen be all about him .
They be so fat that they could hardly walk .
Not only be they fat , but they seem to think that their one object in life be to fill the stomach of hungry fox , for they just stand about wait to be catch .
Never in all his life have Reddy Fox know anything so wonderful a be that dream .
There be no dog to worry him .
There be no hunter with dreadful gun .
All he have to do be to reach out and help himself to a many fat hen a he want .
He ate and ate and ate , all in his dream , you know , and when he could eat no more he start for home .
When he start for home the fat hen that be leave start along with him .
He lead a procession of fat hen straight over to his home in the Old Pasture .
Just imagine how Reddy felt when at last he awake and there be not so much a a feather from a fat hen anywhere about , while his stomach fairly ache with emptiness .
CHAPTER XXIX REDDY TRIES TO AROUSE BLACKY 'S PITY Trust a Fox only as far a you can see him , and lock the chicken up before you do that .
Bowser the Hound .
All the next night , a Reddy Fox hunt and hunt for something to eat , he keep thinking of that dream of fat hen , and he keep wonder how he could get Blacky the Crow to tell him just where that farm with fat hen be .
Blacky on his part have spend a whole day wonder how he could induce Reddy Fox to make that long journey over to where Bowser the Hound be a prisoner of kindness .
Blacky be smart enough to know that if he seem too anxious for Reddy to make that long journey , Reddy would at once suspect something .
He know well enough that if Reddy have any idea that Bowser the Hound be over there , nothing would tempt him to make the trip .
Early the next morning , just a on the morning before , Blacky stop over by Reddy 's house .
This time Reddy be already home .
Actually he be wait for Blacky , though he would n't have have Blacky know it for the world .
As soon a he saw Blacky come , he lay down on his doorstep and pretend not to see Blacky at all .
`` Good morning , Reddy , '' say Blacky , a he alight in the top of a little tree close by .
Reddy raise his head a if it be all he could do to lift it .
`` Good morning , Blacky , '' say he in a feeble voice .
Blacky look at him sharply .
`` What 's the matter , Reddy ? ''
he demand .
`` You seem to be feel badly . ''
Reddy sigh .
It be a long , doleful sigh .
`` I be feel badly , Blacky , '' say he .
`` I never felt worse in my life .
The truth be I -- I -- I -- '' Reddy pause .
`` You what ? ''
demand Blacky , look at Reddy more sharply than ever .
`` I be starve , '' say Reddy very feebly .
`` I certainly shall starve to death unless I can find some way of get at least one good meal soon .
You have no idea , Blacky , how dreadful it be to be hungry all the time . ''
Again Reddy sigh , and follow this with a second sigh and then a third sigh .
Blacky look behind him so that Reddy might not see the twinkle in his eye .
For Blacky understood perfectly what Reddy be try to do .
Reddy be n't fool him a bit .
When he look back at Reddy he be very grave .
He be do his best to look very sympathetic .
`` I 'm right sorry to hear this , Reddy , '' say he .
`` I certainly be .
I 've be hungry myself more than once .
It seem a pity that you should be starve here when over on that farm I tell you about yesterday be fat hen to be have for the taking .
If you be not so weak , I would be tempt to show you where they be . ''
CHAPTER XXX BLACKY THE CROW IS ALL PITY People who think that they be fool others very often discover that they have be fool themselves .
Bowser the Hound .
To have see and hear Blacky the Crow a he talk to Reddy Fox , you would have think that there be nothing under the sun in his heart or mind but pity .
`` Yes , Sir , '' say he , `` I certainly would be tempt to show you where those fat hen be if you be not too weak .
I just ca n't bear to see an old friend starve .
It be too bad that those fat hen be so far away .
I feel sure that one of them would make you quite yourself again . ''
`` Do n't -- do n't talk about them , '' say Reddy feebly .
`` If I could have just one fat hen that be all I would ask .
Are they so very far from here ? ''
Blacky nod his head vigorously .
`` Yes , '' say he , `` they be a long way from here .
They be such a long way that I 'm afraid you be too weak to make the journey .
If you be quite yourself you could do it nicely , but for one in your condition it be , I fear , altogether too long a journey . ''
`` It would n't do any harm to try it , perhaps , '' suggest Reddy , in a hesitating way .
`` It be no bad to starve to death in one place than another , and I never be one to give up without try .
If you do n't mind show me the way , Brother Blacky , I would at least like to try to reach that place where the fat hen be .
Of course I can not keep up with you .
In fact , I could n't if I be feel well and strong .
Perhaps you can tell me just how to find that place , and then I need n't bother you at all . ''
Blacky pretend to be lose in thought while Reddy watch him anxiously .
Finally Blacky speak .
`` It certainly make my heart ache to see you in such a condition , Brother Reddy , '' say he .
`` I tell you what I 'll do .
You know Crows be famous for fly in a straight line when we want to get to any place in particular .
I will fly straight towards that farm where the fat hen be .
You follow along as best you can .
In your feeble condition it will take you a long time to get anywhere near there .
This will give me time to go hunt for my own dinner , and then I will come back until I meet you .
After that , I will show you the way .
Now I will start along and you follow . ''
Reddy get to his foot a if it be hard work .
Then Blacky spread his wing and start off , caw encouragement .
All the time inside he be laugh to think that Reddy Fox should think he have fool him .
`` He forget to ask again if there be a dog there , '' chuckle Blacky to himself .
As for Reddy , no sooner be Blacky well on his way than he start off at his swift pace .
There be nothing weak or feeble in the way Reddy run then .
He be in a hurry to get to those fat hen .
CHAPTER XXXI BLACKY IS MUCH PLEASED WITH HIMSELF You can not tell from a single feather what a bird look like , nor from a lone hair how big a dog be .
Bowser the Hound .
Straight away towards the farm where Bowser the Hound be flew Blacky the Crow .
Every few minute he would caw encouragement to Reddy Fox , who , a you know , be follow , but who of course could not travel as fast a do Blacky .
In between time Blacky would chuckle to himself .
He be mightily pleased with himself , be Blacky .
In the first place his plan be work beautifully .
You know what he be after be to get Reddy Fox over to that farm where Bowser be .
He hop that if Reddy should catch one of those fat hen , the farmer would put Bowser on Reddy 's trail .
He know that Reddy would probably return straight home , and Bowser , follow Reddy 's trail , would thus find his way back home to Farmer Brown 's .
Of course , it all depend on whether Reddy would catch one of those fat hen and whether Bowser would be allow to hunt him .
Blacky have a plan for make sure that if Reddy do get one of those hen the folk in the farmhouse would know it .
But what tickle Blacky most the knowledge that Reddy Fox think he be fool Blacky .
You remember that Reddy have pretend to be very weak .
Blacky know that Reddy be nothing of the kind .
At the very first opportunity Blacky stop in the top of a tall tree a if to rest .
His real reason for stop be to have a chance to look back .
You see , while he be fly he could n't look behind him .
Presently , just a he expect , he saw in the distance a little red speck , and that little red speck be move very fast indeed .
There be nothing weak or feeble in the way that red speck be come across the snow-covered field .
Blacky chuckle hoarsely .
Nearer and nearer come the red speck , and of course the nearer it come the large it grow .
Presently it stop move fast .
It begin to move slowly and stop every once in a while , a if to rest .
Blacky laugh right out .
He know then that Reddy Fox have discover him sit in the top of that tall tree and be once more pretending .
It be a sort of a game , a game that Blacky thoroughly enjoy .
As soon a he know that Reddy have discover him , he once more spread his black wing and start on .
The same thing happen over again .
In fact , Blacky do not fly far this time before once more waiting .
It be great fun to see Reddy suddenly pretend that he be too weak to run .
It be such fun that Blacky quite forget that he have have no breakfast .
Yes , Blacky the Crow be very much please with himself .
It look very much a if he would succeed in help Bowser the Hound .
This please him .
But it please him still more to know that he be fool clever Reddy Fox while Reddy think he be the one who be do the fooling .
CHAPTER XXXII BLACKY WAITS FOR REDDY Be wise , my friend , and do not fail To trust a dog who wag his tail .
Bowser the Hound .
Just before reach the farm where the fat hen and Bowser the Hound be , Blacky wait for Reddy Fox to catch up .
It be some time before Reddy appear , for he be n't travel a fast now a when he have start out .
You see , that farm really be a very long way from the Old Pasture where Reddy live and Reddy have run very hard , because , you know , he be so anxious to get one of those fat hen .
As soon a Blacky saw him he hide in the thick branch of a tall pine-tree .
Reddy do n't see him .
In fact , Blacky have be so far ahead that Reddy have lose sight of him some time before .
Out of the bush trot Reddy .
His tongue be hang out just a little , and he be pant .
Blacky be just about to speak when Reddy stop .
He stand as still a if he have suddenly be frozen stiff .
His sharp black ear be cock forward , and his head be turn just a little to one side .
Reddy be listen .
He be listen for the voice of Blacky .
You see , he think Blacky be still far ahead of him .
For several minute Reddy stand listen with all his might , and Blacky 's sharp eye twinkle a he look down , watch Reddy .
Suddenly Reddy sit down .
There be an expression on his sharp face which Blacky understood perfectly .
It be quite plain that Reddy be become suspicious .
He have begin to suspect that he have be trick by Blacky and lead so far away from home for nothing .
Down inside Blacky chuckle .
It be a noiseless chuckle , for Blacky do not intend to give himself away until he have to .
But when at last he saw that Reddy be begin to get uneasy , Blacky speak .
`` You seem to be feel good , Brother Reddy , '' say he .
`` You must excuse me for keep you wait , but I do not suppose that any one so weak and feeble a you appear to be early this morning could possibly get here so soon . ''
At the sound of Blacky 's voice , Reddy be so startled that he jump quite a if he have sit down on a prickly briar .
He be sharp enough to know that it be no long of any use to pretend .
`` I 'm feel well , '' say he .
`` The thought of those fat hen have quite restore my strength .
Did you say that they be near here ? ''
`` I do n't say , but -- '' Blacky do n't finish .
He do n't need to .
From the other side of a little swamp in front of them a rooster crow .
That be answer enough !
Reddy 's yellow eye gleam .
In an instant he be on his foot , the picture of alertness .
`` Are you satisfy that I tell the truth ? ''
ask Blacky .
Reddy nod .
CHAPTER XXXIII REDDY WATCHES THE FAT HENS Sooner or later the crooked trail will straighten .
Bowser the Hound .
At the sound of that rooster 's voice on the other side of the little swamp , Reddy become a change Fox .
Could you have be sit where you could have see him , a do Blacky the Crow , you never , never would have guess that Reddy have run a very long distance and be tire .
He do not even glance up at Blacky .
He do not even say thank you to Blacky for have show him the way .
He look neither to the right nor to the left , but with eye fix eagerly ahead , begin to steal forward swiftly .
Making no sound , for Reddy can step very lightly when he choose to , he trot quickly through the little swamp until he draw near the other side .
Then he crouch close to the snow-covered ground and begin to steal from bush to bush until he reach the trunk of a fall tree on the very edge of the swamp .
To this he crawl on his stomach and peep around the end of it .
Everything be a Blacky the Crow have say .
Not far away be a farmyard , and walk about in it be a big rooster , lord it over a large flock of fat hen .
They be not shut in by a wire fence a be Farmer Brown 's hen .
Some be take a sun bath just in front of the barn door .
Others be scatter about , pick up bit of food which have be throw out for them .
A few be scratch in some straw in the cowyard .
In the barn a horse stamped .
From the farmhouse sound the voice of a woman singing .
Once the door of the farmhouse open , and an appetizing odor float out to tickle the nose of Reddy .
Reddy look sharply for sign of a dog .
Not one could he see .
If there be a dog , he must be either in the barn or in the house .
It be quite clear to Reddy that no Fox have bother this flock of fat hen .
He be sorely tempt to rush out and grab one of them at once , but he do n't .
He be far too clever to do anything like that until he be absolutely sure that it would be safe .
So Reddy lay flat behind the old tree trunk , with just his nose and his eye show around the end of it , and study what would be best to do .
He be sure that he could get one of those fat hen , but he want more .
Early that morning Reddy would have be quite content with one , but now that he be sure that he could get one , he want more .
If he be too bold and frighten those hen while catch one , they would make such a racket that they would be sure to bring some one from the farmhouse .
The thing to do be to be patient until he could catch one without alarm the others .
Then perhaps he would be able to catch another .
Reddy decide to be patient and wait .
CHAPTER XXXIV PATIENCE AND IMPATIENCE Patience be a virtue In a cause that 's right .
In a cause that be n't , It 's a cause for fright .
Bowser the Hound .
One of the first thing that the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who hunt other little people learn be patience .
Sometimes it take a long time to learn this , but it be a necessary lesson .
Reddy Fox have learn it .
Reddy know that often even his cleverness would not succeed without patience .
When he be young he have lose many a good meal through impatience .
Reddy could not remember when he have be more hungry than he be now .
Lying there behind the fall tree , watch the fat hens walk about unsuspectingly just a little way from him , it seem to him that he simply must rush out and catch one of them .
But Reddy be smart enough to know that if he do this there would at once be such a screaming and squawking that some one would be sure to rush out from the farmhouse to find out what be go on .
If he be discover , there would be small chance for him to get another fat hen .
Reddy be keen enough to make the most of an opportunity .
He know that if he could get one of these hen without frighten the others , he would have a chance to get another .
He might have a chance to get several in this way .
So , though he be so eager and so hungry , he make himself keep perfectly still , while he study out a plan .
By and by he steal ever so carefully around back of the barn to the cowyard .
Some of those fat hen be scratch in the straw of the cowyard .
Just outside the cowyard be a pile of old board .
Reddy crawl behind this pile of old board and then crouch and settle himself to be patient .
He know that sooner or later one of those fat hen would be likely to come out of the cowyard .
In this way he might be able to catch one without the others know a thing about it .
Blacky the Crow sit in the top of a tall tree where he could see all that be go on .
Blacky be as impatient a Reddy be patient .
`` Why do n't the red rascal rush in and get one of those fat hen ? ''
mutter Blacky .
`` What be the matter with him , anyway ?
I wonder if he be afraid .
He could catch one of them without half try , and there he lie a if he expect them to run right into his mouth .
I do n't want to sit here all day .
Yet I ca n't do a thing until he catch one of those hen . ''
So Reddy wait patiently and Blacky wait impatiently , and the fat hen wander about unsuspectingly , and for a long , long time nothing happen .
CHAPTER XXXV THINGS HAPPEN ALL AT ONCE The cleverest Fox be almost certain to visit the chicken yard once too often .
Bowser the Hound .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun , high in the blue , blue sky , look down on a peaceful a scene a ever be .
In the cowyard back of the barn of this particular farm stand several cow contentedly chew their cud a they take their daily airing .
Half a dozen fat hen be walk about among them and scratch in the straw .
Out in the farmyard in front of the barn be many more fat hen .
Behind a pile of old board just outside the cowyard be a spot of red .
In the top of a tall tree not far distant be a spot of black .
The smoke from the chimney of the farmhouse float skyward in a lazy way .
Looking down on the Great World , jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun saw no more peaceful scene anywhere .
By and by a fat hen walk over to the bar of the cowyard and hop up on the low bar .
There she sit for some time .
Then , make up her mind that she would see what be outside , she hop down and walk over to the pile of old board .
Right then thing happen all at once .
That red spot behind the pile of old board suddenly come to life .
There be a quick spring , and that fat hen be seize by the neck so suddenly that she do n't have time to make a sound .
At the same instant the black spot in the top of the tall tree come to life , and Blacky the Crow fly over to the roof of the barn , scream at the top of his lung .
Now those who know Blacky well , know when he be scream `` Fox !
Fox !
Fox ! ''
although it sound a if he be say `` Caw !
Caw !
Caw ! ''
In a moment the door of the farmhouse fly open , and a man step out with a dog at his heel .
The man look up at Blacky , and he know by Blacky 's action that something be go on back of the barn .
Right away he guess that there must be a Fox there , and call the dog to follow , he run around to see what be happen .
Of course Reddy hear him come , and with a little snarl of anger at Blacky the Crow , he seize the fat hen by the neck , throw her body over his shoulder , and start for the near-by swamp a fast a his leg could take him .
Just a Reddy reach the edge of the swamp , he hear the roar of a great voice behind him .
He know that voice .
It be the voice of Bowser the Hound .
It could be no one else but Bowser who be behind him , for there be no other voice quite like his .
Dismay awoke in Reddy 's heart .
He know that Bowser be wise to the trick of Foxes , and that he would have to use all his cunning to get rid of Bowser .
To do it he would have to drop that fat hen he have come so far to get .
Do you wonder that Reddy be dismay ?
CHAPTER XXXVI REDDY HIDES THE FAT HEN Dishonesty will run away Where Honesty will boldly stay .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox be in a fix !
He certainly be in a fix !
Here he be with the fat hen which he have come such a long , long way to get , and no chance to eat it , for Bowser the Hound be on his trail .
Ordinarily Reddy Fox can run fast than can Bowser , but it be one thing to run with nothing to carry , and another thing altogether to with a burden as heavy a a fat hen .
Reddy 's wit be work quite as fast a his leg .
`` I ca n't carry this fat hen far , '' think Reddy , `` for Bowser will surely catch me .
I do n't want to drop it , because I have come such a long way to get it , and goodness know when I will be able to catch another .
The thing for me to do be to hide it where I can come back and get it after I get rid of that pesky dog .
Goodness , what a noise he make ! ''
As he run , Reddy watch sharply this way and that way for a place to hide the fat hen .
He know he must find a place soon , because already that fat hen be grow very heavy .
Presently he spy the hollow stump of a tree .
He do n't know it be hollow when he first saw it , but from it look he think it might be .
The top of it be only about two foot above the ground .
Reddy stop and stand up on his hind legs so a to see if the top of that stump be hollow .
It be .
With a quick look this way and that way to make sure he be n't see , he toss the fat hen over into the hollow and then , with a sigh of relief , dart away .
With the weight of that fat hen off his shoulder , and the worry about it off his mind , Reddy could give all his attention to get rid of Bowser the Hound .
He have no intention of run any farther than he must .
In the first place he have travel so far that he do not feel like run .
In the second place he want to get back to that hollow stump and the fat hen just as soon a possible .
It be n't long before Reddy realize that it be not go to be so easy to fool Bowser the Hound .
Bowser be too wise to be fool by common trick such a break the trail by jump far to one side after run back on his own track a little way ; or by run along a fall tree and jumping from the end of it as far a he could .
Of course he try these trick , but each time Bowser simply make a big circle with his nose to the ground and pick up Reddy 's new trail .
Reddy do n't know that country about there at all , and little by little he begin to realize how much this meant .
At home he know every foot of the ground for a long distance in every direction .
This make all the difference in the world , because he know just how to play all kind of trick .
But here it be different .
It seem to him that all he could do be to run and run .
CHAPTER XXXVII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY HAS A GLAD SURPRISE The sweet sound in the world be the voice of one you love .
Bowser the Hound .
Farmer Brown 's boy have an errand which take him far from home .
He harness the horse to a sleigh and start off right after dinner .
Now it happen that his errand take him in the direction of the farm where Bowser the Hound have be take such good care of , and where Reddy Fox have that very day catch the fat hen .
Farmer Brown 's boy be not think of Bowser .
You see , he have already visit most of the farm in that direction in his search for Bowser and have find no trace of him .
It be a beautiful day to be sleigh , and Farmer Brown 's boy be whistle merrily , for there be nothing he enjoy more than a sleigh ride .
He have almost reach the place he have start for when ` way off across the field to his right he hear a dog .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy enjoy listen to the sound of a Hound chase a Fox .
There be something about it which stir the blood .
He stop whistle and stop the horse in order that he might listen good .
At first that sound be very , very faint , but a Farmer Brown 's boy listen , it grow louder and clearer .
Suddenly Farmer Brown 's boy leap up excitedly .
`` That 's Bowser ! ''
he cry .
`` As sure a I live that 's good old Bowser !
I would know that voice among a million ! ''
He leap from the sleigh and tie the horse .
Then he climb over the fence and begin to run across the snow-covered field .
He could tell from the sound in what direction Bowser be run .
He could tell from the appearance of the country about where Reddy Fox would be likely to lead Bowser , and he run for a place which he felt sure Reddy would be likely to pass .
Louder and louder sound the great voice of Bowser , and faster and faster run Farmer Brown 's boy to reach that place before Bowser should pass .
The louder that great voice sound , the more absolutely certain Farmer Brown 's boy become that it be the voice of Bowser , and a great joy fill his heart .
At last he reach an old road .
He felt certain that Reddy would follow that road .
So he hide behind an old stone wall on the edge of it .
He do not have long to wait .
A red form appear around a turn in the old road , run swiftly .
Then it stop and stand perfectly still .
Of course it be Reddy Fox .
He be listen to make sure just how far behind him Bowser be .
He listen for only a moment and then start on as swiftly a before .
Right down the road past Farmer Brown 's boy Reddy ran , and never once suspect he be be watch .
A few minute later another form appear around the turn in the road .
It be Bowser !
Yes , Sir , it be Bowser !
With a glad cry Farmer Brown 's boy jump over the stone wall and wait .
CHAPTER XXXVIII REDDY GOES BACK FOR HIS FAT HEN Joy will make a puppy of an old dog .
Bowser the Hound .
When Bowser the Hound be follow the trail of Reddy Fox , it take a great deal to make him leave that trail .
His love of the hunt be so great that , a a rule , nothing short of lose the trail will make him stop .
He will follow it until he can not follow it any longer .
But for once Bowser actually forget that he be follow Reddy Fox .
Yes , Sir , he do .
As he come down that old road with his nose in Reddy 's track , he be so intent on what he be do that he do n't see Farmer Brown 's boy wait for him .
He do n't see him until he almost run into him .
For just a second Bowser star in utter surprise .
Then with a little yelp of pure joy he leap up and do his best to lick his master 's face .
Could you have see Bowser , you might have think that he be just a foolish young puppy , he cut up such wild antic to express his joy .
He yelp and whine and bark .
He nearly knock Farmer Brown 's boy down by leap up on him .
He race around in circle .
When at last he be still long enough , Farmer Brown 's boy just throw his arm around him and hug him .
He hug him so hard he make Bowser squeal .
Then two of the happy folk in all the Great World start back across the snow-covered field to the sleigh .
Bowser and Farmer Brown 's boy be not the only one who rejoice .
Reddy Fox have be badly worry .
Although he have try every trick he could think of , he have not be able to get rid of Bowser , and he have just about make up his mind that there be nothing for it but to start back to the Old Pasture which be so far away .
That would mean give up the fat hen which he have hide in the hollow stump .
Of course , Reddy know the instant that Bowser begin to yelp and bark that something have happen .
What it be he could n't imagine .
He sit down to wait and listen .
Then he hear the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Reddy know that voice and he grin , for he felt sure that Bowser would give up the hunt .
He grin because now he would have a chance to go back for that fat hen .
At the same time that grin be not wholly a happy grin , because Reddy know that now Bowser would return to his home .
Presently Reddy very carefully creep back to a place where he could see what be go on .
He watch Farmer Brown 's boy start back for the road and the sleigh , with Bowser jump up on him and race around him like a foolish young puppy .
He wait only long enough to make sure that Bowser would not come back ; then he turn and trot swiftly along his own back trail towards that hollow stump into which he have toss that fat hen .
Reddy 's thought be very pleasant thought , for they be all of the fine dinner of which he now felt sure .
CHAPTER XXXIX A VANISHED DINNER This fact you 'll find where'er you go Is true of Fox or Dog or Man : Dishonesty have never pay , And , what be more , it never can .
Bowser the Hound .
Very pleasant be the thought of Reddy Fox a he trot back to the swamp where be the hollow stump in which he have hide the fat hen he have steal .
Yes , Sir , very pleasant be the thought of Reddy Fox .
He felt sure that no dinner he have ever eat have taste anywhere near as good a would the dinner he be about to enjoy .
In the first place his stomach have not be really fill for a long time .
Food have be scarce , and while Reddy have always obtain enough to keep from starve , it be a long time since he have have a really good meal .
He have , you remember , travel a very long distance to catch that fat hen , and it have be many hour since he have have a bite of anything .
There be nothing like a good appetite to make thing taste good .
Reddy certainly have the appetite to make that fat hen the fine dinner a Fox ever ate .
So , with pleasant thought of the feast to come , Reddy trot along swiftly .
Presently he reach the little swamp in which be the hollow stump .
As he draw near it , he move very carefully .
You see , he be not quite sure that all be safe .
He know that the farmer from whom he have steal that fat hen have see him run away with it , and he fear that that farmer might be hide somewhere about with a terrible gun .
So Reddy use his eye and his ear and his nose a only he can use them .
All seem safe .
It be a still in that little swamp a if no living creature have ever visit it .
Stopping every few step to look , listen , and sniff , Reddy approach that hollow stump .
Quite certain in his own mind that there be no danger , Reddy lightly leap up on the old stump and peep into the hollow in the top .
Then he blink his eye very fast indeed .
If ever there have be a surprised Fox in all the Great World that one be Reddy .
There be no fat hen in that hollow !
Reddy could n't believe it .
He would n't believe it .
That fat hen just have to be there .
He blink his eye some more and look again .
All he saw in that hollow stump be a feather .
The fat hen have vanish .
All Reddy 's dream of a good dinner vanish too .
A great rage take their place .
Somebody have steal his fat hen !
Reddy look about him hurriedly and anxiously .
There be n't a sign of anybody about , or that anybody have be there .
Reddy 's anger begin to give place to wonder and then to something very like fear .
How could anybody have take that fat hen and leave no trace ?
And how could a fat hen with a broken neck disappear of it own accord ?
It give Reddy a creepy feeling .
CHAPTER XL WHERE WAS REDDY 'S DINNER ?
Often it be well to look for a new trail than to waste time hunt for an old one .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox be use to all sort of queer happening .
Yes , Sir , he be use to all sort of queer happening , and a a rule Reddy be seldom puzzle for long .
You see he be such a clever fellow himself that any one clever enough to fool him for long must be very clever indeed .
This time , however , all the cleverness of his sharp wit do him no good .
The fat hen he have hide in a hollow stump have disappear without leave trace .
Reddy 's first thought be that probably the farmer from whom he have steal the fat hen have find it and take it away .
At once he begin to use that wonderful nose of his search for the scent of that farmer .
Very carefully he sniff all about the top of that old stump and inside the hollow .
There be n't the faint scent of anybody there .
Then he jump down , and with his nose to the ground , run all around the stump , sniff , sniff , sniff .
The only thing he discover be the scent of Bowser the Hound , and he know that Bowser have not take that fat hen , because , a you remember , Bowser have keep right on chase him .
Reddy begin to feel afraid of that old stump .
People usually be afraid of mysterious thing , and it certainly be very mysterious that a fat hen with a broken neck should disappear without leave any trace at all .
Reddy sit down at a little distance and do a lot of hard thinking .
He look every which way even up in the tree top , but all his look be in vain .
It be so mysterious that if he have n't know positively that he be awake he would have think it be all a dream .
But Reddy be something of a philosopher .
That fat hen be go , and there be no use in waste time puzzle over it .
There be other fat hen where that one come from , and he would just have to catch another .
So Reddy trot through the swamp till he come to the edge of it .
There his keen nose find the scent of the farmer .
It do n't take him two minute to discover that the farmer have follow Bowser the Hound to the edge of the swamp and then go back .
Eagerly Reddy look over to the farmyard for those fat hen .
They , too , have disappear .
Not one be to be see .
But there be no mystery about the disappearance of these other fat hen .
He hear the muffled crow of the big rooster .
It come from the henhouse .
All those fat hen have be shut up .
It be perfectly plain to Reddy that the farmer suspect Reddy might return , and he do n't intend to lose another fat hen .
With a little yelp of disappointment , Reddy turn his back on the farm and trot off into the wood .
CHAPTER XLI WHAT BLACKY THE CROW SAW The great puzzle be simple enough when you know the answer .
Bowser the Hound .
There be just two people to whom the disappearance of that fat hen Reddy Fox have hide in the hollow stump be not a mystery .
One of them be Blacky the Crow .
When the farmer and Bowser the Hound have rush out at the sound of Blacky 's excited cawing , Blacky have fly to the top of a tall tree from which he could see all that go on .
Everything have happen just a Blacky have hop it would .
Bowser have take the trail of Reddy Fox , and Blacky felt sure that sooner or later Reddy would lead him back home to Farmer Brown 's .
Blacky be doubly pleased with himself .
He be pleased to think that he have find a way of get Bowser back home , and he be quite as much pleased because he have be smart enough to outwit Reddy Fox .
He do n't wish Reddy any harm , and he felt sure that no harm would come to him .
He do n't even wish him to lose that dinner Reddy have come so far to get , but he do n't care if Reddy do lose it , if only his plan work out a he hop it would .
`` I wonder what he 'll do with that fat hen , '' mutter Blacky , a he watch Reddy race away with it thrown over his shoulder .
`` He ca n't carry that hen far and keep out of the way of Bowser .
I think I 'll follow and see what he do with it . ''
So Blacky follow , and his eye twinkle when he saw Reddy hide the fat hen in the hollow stump .
He know that no matter how far Bowser might chase Reddy , Reddy would come back for that fat hen , and he be rather glad to think that Reddy would have that good dinner after all .
`` No one will ever think to look in that hollow stump , '' think Blacky , `` and I certainly will not tell any one .
Reddy have earn that dinner .
Now I think I 'll go get something to eat myself . ''
At that very instant Blacky 's sharp eye catch a glimpse of a gray form with broad wing , and in a perfect panic of fear Blacky begin to fly as fast a he know how for a thick spruce-tree not far away .
He plunge in among the branch and hid in the thick part he could find .
With little shiver of fear run all over him , he peek out and watch that big gray form .
On broad wing it sail over to that hollow stump .
Two long leg with great curve claw reach down in , and a moment later that fat hen be disappear over the tree top .
Blacky sigh with relief .
-LSB- Illustration : ON BROAD WINGS IT SAILED OVER TO THAT HOLLOW STUMP .
Page 199 .
-RSB- `` It 's a lucky thing for me that robber , Mr. Goshawk , saw Reddy hide that fat hen , '' mutter Blacky .
`` If he have n't , he might have catch me , for I do n't see him at all . ''
CHAPTER XLII ALL IS WELL THAT ENDS WELL When thing go wrong , just patient be Until the end you plainly see .
For often thing that seem all bad Will end by make all hand glad .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox , trot homeward , have nothing but bitterness in his heart , and nothing at all in his stomach .
He be tire and hungry and bitterly disappointed .
He be in a country with which he be not familiar , and so he do not know where to hunt , and he felt that he just must get something to eat .
Do what he would , he could n't help think about that fat hen he have hide and which have so mysteriously disappear .
The more he think of it , the worse he felt .
It be bad enough to be hungry and have no idea where the next meal be come from , but it be many time bad to have have that meal and then lose it .
To Reddy , everything be all wrong .
Now on his way home Ready have to pass several farm .
Hunger make him bold , and at each farm he steal softly as near a possible to the farmyard , hop that he might find more fat hen unguarded .
Now it happen that that afternoon a farmer at one of these farm be prepare some chicken to be take to market early the next morning .
He be pick these chicken in a shed attach to the barn .
He have several all pick when he be call to the house on an errand .
It happen that just after he have disappear Reddy Fox come steal around from behind the barn , and at once he smell those chicken .
Just imagine how Reddy felt when he peep in that shed and saw those fine chicken just wait for him .
Two minute later Reddy be race back to the wood with one of them .
This time there be no dog behind him .
And in a little hollow Reddy eat the fine dinner he ever have have .
You see there be no feather to bother him on that chicken , for it have be pick .
When the last bit have disappear , Reddy once more started for home , and this time he be happy , for his stomach be full .
Long before Reddy get back to the Old Pasture Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound have reach home .
Such a fuss a everybody do make over Bowser .
It seem a if each one at Farmer Brown 's be try to spoil Bowser .
As for Bowser himself , he be the happy dog in all the Great World .
Blacky the Crow get back to the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's just before jolly , round Mr. Sun go to bed .
Blacky have find plenty to eat and he have see no more of fierce Mr. Goshawk .
As Blacky settle himself on his roost he hear from the direction of Farmer Brown 's house a great voice .
It be the voice of Bowser the Hound try to express his joy in be home .
Blacky chuckle contentedly .
He , too , be happy , for it always make one happy to have one 's plan succeed .
`` All 's well that end 's well , '' he chuckle , and close his eye sleepily .
Blacky never could have fool old Granny Fox a he do Reddy .
She be far too smart to be fool even by so clever a scamp a Blacky .
She be so smart that she deserve a book all her own , and so the next volume in this series will be Old Granny Fox .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Lightfoot_the_Deer.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Peter Rabbit Meets Lightfoot Peter Rabbit be on his way back from the pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest .
He have just see Mr. and Mrs. Quack start toward the Big River for a brief visit before leave on their long , difficult journey to the far-away Southland .
Farewells be always rather sad , and this particular farewell have leave Peter with a lump in his throat , -- a queer , choky feeling .
`` If I be sure that they would return next spring , it would n't be so bad , '' he mutter .
`` It 's those terrible gun .
I know what it be to have to watch out for them .
Farmer Brown 's boy use to hunt me with one of them , but he do n't any more .
But even when he do hunt me it be n't anything like what the Ducks have to go through .
If I keep my eye and ear open , I could tell when a hunter be come and could hide in a hole if I want to .
I never have to worry about my meal .
But with the Ducks it be a thousand time worse .
They 've get to eat while make that long journey , and they can eat only where there be the right kind of food .
Hunters with terrible gun know where those place be and hide there until the Ducks come , and the Ducks have no way of know whether the hunter be wait for them or not .
That be n't hunt .
It 's -- it 's -- '' `` Well , what be it ?
What be you talk to yourself about , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter look up with a start to find the soft , beautiful eye of Lightfoot the Deer gaze down at him over the top of a little hemlock tree .
`` It 's awful , '' declare Peter .
`` It 's bad than unfair .
It do n't give them any chance at all . ''
`` I suppose it must be so if you say so , '' reply Lightfoot , `` but you might tell me what all this awfulness be about . ''
Peter grin .
Then he begin at the beginning and tell Lightfoot all about Mr. and Mrs. Quack and the many danger they must face on their long journey to the far-away Southland and back again in the spring , all because of the heartless hunter with terrible gun .
Lightfoot listen and his great soft eye be fill with pity for the Quack family .
`` I hope they will get through all right , '' say he , `` and I hope they will get back in the spring .
It be bad enough to be hunt by men at one time of the year , a no one know good than I do , but to be hunt in the spring as well a in the fall be more than twice a bad .
Men be strange creature .
I do not understand them at all .
None of the people of the Green Forest would think of do such terrible thing .
I suppose it be quite right to hunt others in order to get enough to eat , though I be thankful to say that I never have have to do that , but to hunt others just for the fun of hunting be something I can not understand at all .
And yet that be what men seem to do it for .
I guess the trouble be they never have be hunt themselves and do n't know how it feel .
Sometimes I think I 'll hunt one some day just to teach him a lesson .
What be you laugh at , Peter ? ''
`` At the idea of you hunt a man , '' reply Peter .
`` Your heart be all right , Lightfoot , but you be too timid and gentle to frighten any one .
Big a you be I would n't fear you . ''
With a single swift bound Lightfoot spring out in front of Peter .
He stamp his sharp hoof , lower his handsome head until the sharp point of his antler , which people call horn , point straight at Peter , lift the hair along the back of his neck , and make a motion a if to plunge at him .
His eye , which Peter have always think so soft and gentle , seem to flash fire .
`` Oh ! ''
cry Peter in a faint , frightened-sounding voice and leap to one side before it enter his foolish little head that Lightfoot be just pretend .
Lightfoot chuckle .
`` Did you say I could n't frighten any one ? ''
he demand .
`` I -- I do n't know you could look so terribly fierce , '' stammer Peter .
`` Those antler look really dangerous when you point them that way .
Why -- why -- what be that hang to them ?
It look like bit of old fur .
Have you be tear somebody 's coat , Lightfoot ? ''
Peter 's eye be wide with wonder and suspicion .
CHAPTER II : Lightfoot 's New Antlers Peter Rabbit be puzzle .
He star at Lightfoot the Deer a wee bit suspiciously .
`` Have you be tear somebody 's coat ? ''
he ask again .
He do n't like to think it of Lightfoot , whom he always have believe quite a gentle , harmless , and timid a himself .
But what else could he think ?
Lightfoot slowly shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` I have n't tear anybody 's coat . ''
`` Then what be those rag hang on your antler ? ''
demand Peter .
Lightfoot chuckle .
`` They be what be leave of the covering of my new antler , '' he explain .
`` What 's that ?
What do you mean by new antler ? ''
Peter be sit up very straight , with his eye fix on Lightfoot 's antler a though he never have see them before .
`` Just what I say , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` What do you think of them ?
I think they be the fine antler I 've ever have .
When I get the rest of those rag off , they will be a handsome a set a ever be grow in the Green Forest . ''
Lightfoot rub his antler against the trunk of a tree till some of the rag hang to them drop off .
Peter blink very hard .
He be try to understand and he could n't .
Finally he say so .
`` What kind of a story be you try to fill me up with ? ''
he demand indignantly .
`` Do you mean to tell me that those be not the antler that you have have as long a I 've know you ?
How can anything hard like those antler grow ?
And if those be new one , where be the old one ?
Show me the old one , and perhaps I 'll believe that these be new one .
The idea of try to make me believe that antler grow just like plant !
I 've see Bossy the Cow all summer and I know she have get the same horn she have last summer .
New antler indeed ! ''
`` You be quite right , Peter , quite right about Bossy the Cow .
She never have new horn , but that be n't any reason why I should n't have new antler , be it ? ''
replied Lightfoot patiently .
`` Her horn be quite different from my antler .
I have a new pair every year .
You have n't see me all summer , have you , Peter ? ''
`` No , I do n't remember that I have , '' reply Peter , try very hard to remember when he have last see Lightfoot .
`` I KNOW you have n't , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I know it because I have be hide in a place you never visit . ''
`` What have you be hide for ? ''
demand Peter .
`` For my new antler to grow , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` When my new antler be grow , I want to be away by myself .
I do n't like to be see without them or with halfgrown one .
Besides , I be very uncomfortable while the new antler be grow and I want to be alone . ''
Lightfoot speak a if he really mean every word he say , but still Peter could n't , he just COULD N'T believe that those wonderful great antler have grow out of Lightfoot 's head in a single summer .
`` Where do you leave your old one and when do they come off ? ''
he ask , and there be doubt in the very tone of his voice .
`` They drop off last spring , but I do n't remember just where , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` I be too glad to be rid of them to notice where they drop .
You see they be loose and uncomfortable , and I have n't any more use for them because I know that my new one would be big and well .
I 've get one more point on each than I have last year . ''
Lightfoot begin once more to rub his antler against the tree to get off the queer rag hang to them and to polish the point .
Peter watch in silence for a few minute .
Then , all his suspicion return , he say : `` But you have n't tell me anything about those rag hang to your antler . ''
`` And you have n't believe what I have already tell you , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I do n't like tell thing to people who wo n't believe me . ''
CHAPTER III : Lightfoot Tells How His Antlers Grew It be hard to believe what seem impossible .
And yet what seem impossible to you may be a very commonplace matter to some one else .
So it do not do to say that a thing can not be possible just because you can not understand how it can be .
Peter Rabbit want to believe what Lightfoot the Deer have just tell him , but somehow he could n't .
If he have see those antler grow , it would have be another matter .
But he have n't see Lightfoot since the very last of winter , and then Lightfoot have wear just such handsome antler a he now have .
So Peter really could n't be blame for not be able to believe that those old one have be lose and in their place new one have grow in just the few month of spring and summer .
But Peter do n't blame Lightfoot in the least , because he have tell Peter that he do n't like to tell thing to people who would n't believe what he tell them when Peter have ask him about the rag hang to his antler .
`` I 'm try to believe it , '' he say , quite humbly .
`` It 's all true , '' break in another voice .
Peter jump and turn to find his big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Unseen and unheard , he have steal up and have overhear what Peter and Lightfoot have say .
`` How do you know it be true ? ''
snap Peter a little crossly , for Jumper have startle him .
`` Because I saw Lightfoot 's old antler after they have fall off , and I often saw Lightfoot while his new one be grow , '' retort Jumper .
`` All right !
I 'll believe anything that Lightfoot tell me if you say it be true , '' declare Peter , who greatly admire his cousin , Jumper .
`` Now tell me about those rag , Lightfoot .
Please do . ''
Lightfoot could n't resist that `` please . ''
`` Those rag be what be leave of a kind of cover which protect the antler while they be grow , a I tell you before , '' say he .
`` Very soon after my old one drop off the new one begin to grow .
They be not hard , not at all like they be now .
They be soft and very tender , and the blood run through them just a it do through our body .
They be cover with a sort of skin with hair on it like thin fur .
The end be not sharply point they now be , but be big and round , like knob .
They be not like antler at all , and they make my head hot and be very uncomfortable .
That be why I hide away .
They grow very fast , so fast that every day I could see by look at my reflection in water that they be a little long .
It seem to me sometimes a if all my strength go into those new antler .
And I have to be very careful not to hit them against anything .
In the first place it would have hurt , and in the second place it might have spoil the shape of them .
`` When they have grow to the length you now see , they begin to shrink and grow hard .
The knob on the end shrink until they become point .
As soon a they stop grow the blood stop flow up in them , and a they become hard they be no long tender .
The skin which have cover them grow dry and split , and I rub it off on tree and bush .
The little rag you see be what be leave , but I will soon be rid of those .
Then I shall be ready to fight if need be and will fear no one save man , and will fear him only when he have a terrible gun with him . ''
Lightfoot toss his head proudly and rattle his wonderful antler against the near tree .
`` Is n't he handsome , '' whisper Peter to Jumper the Hare ; `` and do you ever hear of anything so wonderful a the growing of those new antler in such a short time ?
It be hard to believe , but I suppose it must be true . ''
`` It be , '' reply Jumper , `` and I tell you , Peter , I would hate to have Lightfoot try those antler on me , even though I be big a a man .
You 've always think of Lightfoot a timid and afraid , but you should see him when he be angry .
Few people care to face him then . ''
CHAPTER IV : The Spirit Of Fear When the day grow cold and the night be clear , There stalk abroad the spirit of fear .
-- Lightfoot the Deer .
It be sad but true .
Autumn be often call the sad time of the year , and it be the sad time .
But it should n't be .
Old Mother Nature never intend that it should be .
She mean it to be the GLAD time .
It be the time when all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows have get over the care and worry of bring up family and teach their child how to look out for themselves .
It be the season when food be plentiful , and every one be fat and be , or ought to be , care free .
It be the season when Old Mother Nature intend all her little people to be happy , to have nothing to worry them for the little time before the come of cold weather and the hard time which cold weather always bring .
But instead of this , a grim , dark figure go stalk over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , and it be call the Spirit of Fear .
It peer into every hiding-place and wherever it find one of the little people it send little cold chill over him , little chill which jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun can not chase away , though he shine his bright .
All night as well a all day the Spirit of Fear search out the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It will not let them sleep .
It will not let them eat in peace .
It drive them to seek new hiding-places and then drive them out of those .
It keep them ever ready to fly or run at the slight sound .
Peter Rabbit be think of this a he sit at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , look over to the Green Forest .
The Green Forest be no longer just green ; it be of many color , for Old Mother Nature have set Jack Frost to paint the leaf of the maple-trees and the beech-trees , and the birch-trees and the poplar-trees and the chestnut-trees , and he have do his work well .
Very , very lovely be the red and yellow and brown against the dark green of the pine and the spruce and the hemlock .
The Purple Hills be more softly purple than at any other season of the year .
It be all very , very beautiful .
But Peter have no thought for the beauty of it all , for the Spirit of Fear have visit even the dear Old Briar-patch , and Peter be afraid .
It be n't fear of Reddy Fox , or Redtail the Hawk , or Hooty the Owl , or Old Man Coyote .
They be forever try to catch him , but they do not strike terror to his heart because he felt quite smart enough to keep out of their clutch .
To be sure , they give him sudden fright sometimes , when they happen to surprise him , but these fright last only until he reach the near bramble-tangle or hollow log where they could not get at him .
But the fear that chill his heart now never leave him even for a moment .
And Peter know that this same fear be clutch at the heart of Bob White , hiding in the brown stubble ; of Mrs. Grouse , squat in the thick bramble-tangle in the Green Forest ; of Uncle Billy Possum and Bobby Coon in their hollow tree ; of Jerry Muskrat in the Smiling Pool ; of Happy Jack Squirrel , hide in the tree top ; of Lightfoot the Deer , lie in the closest thicket he could find .
It be even clutch at the heart of Granny and Reddy Fox and of great , big Buster Bear .
It seem to Peter that no one be so big or so small that this terrible Spirit of Fear have not search him out .
Far in the distance sound a sudden bang .
Peter jump and shiver .
He know that every one else who have hear that bang have jump and shiver just a he have .
It be the season of hunter with terrible gun .
It be man who have send this terrible Spirit of Fear to chill the heart of the little meadow and forest people at this very time when Old Mother Nature have make all thing so beautiful and have intend that they should be happiest and most free from care and worry .
It be man who have make the autumn a sad time instead of a glad time , the very sad time of all the year , when Old Mother Nature have do her best to make it the most beautiful .
`` I do n't understand these men creature , '' say Peter to little Mrs. Peter , a they star fearfully out from the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` They seem to find pleasure , actually find pleasure , in try to kill u .
I do n't understand them at all .
They have n't any heart .
That must be the reason ; they have n't any heart . ''
CHAPTER V : Sammy Jay Brings Lightfoot Word Sammy Jay be one of those who believe in the wisdom of the old saying , `` Early to bed and early to rise . ''
Sammy need no alarm clock to get up early in the morning .
He be awake as soon a it be light enough to see and waste no time wish he could sleep a little long .
His stomach would n't let him if he want to .
Sammy always wake up hungry .
In this he be no different from all his feathered neighbor .
So the minute Sammy get his eye open he make his toilet , for Sammy be very neat , and start out to hunt for his breakfast .
Long ago Sammy discover that there be no safe time of day to visit the dooryard of those two-legged creature call men than very early in the morning .
On this particular morning he have plan to fly over to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but at the last minute he change his mind .
Instead , he fly over to the dooryard of another farm .
It be so very early in the morning that Sammy do n't expect to find anybody stirring , so you can guess how surprised he be when , just a he come in sight of that dooryard , he saw the door of the house open and a man step out .
Sammy stop on the top of the near tree .
`` Now what be that man do up as early a this ? ''
mutter Sammy .
Then he catch sight of something under the man 's arm .
He do n't have to look twice to know what it be .
It be a gun !
Yes , sir , it be a gun , a terrible gun .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Sammy , and quite forget that his stomach be empty .
`` Now who can that fellow be after so early in the morning ?
I wonder if he be go to the dear Old Briar-patch to look for Peter Rabbit , or if he be go to the Old Pasture in search of Reddy Fox , or if it be Mr. and Mrs. Grouse he hop to kill .
I think I 'll sit right here and watch . ''
So Sammy sit in the top of the tree and watch the hunter with the terrible gun .
He saw him head straight for the Green Forest .
`` It 's Mr. and Mrs. Grouse after all , I guess , '' think Sammy .
`` If I know just where they be I 'd go over and warn them . ''
But Sammy do n't know just where they be and he know that it might take him a long time to find them , so he once more begin to think of breakfast and then , right then , another thought pop into his head .
He think of Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy watch the hunter enter the Green Forest , then he silently follow him .
From the way the hunter move , Sammy decide that he be n't think of Mr. and Mrs. Grouse .
`` It 's Lightfoot the Deer , sure a I live , '' mutter Sammy .
`` He ought to be warn .
He certainly ought to be warn .
I know right where he be .
I believe I 'll warn him myself . ''
Sammy find Lightfoot right where he have expect to .
`` He 's come ! ''
cry Sammy .
`` A hunter with a terrible gun be come ! ''
CHAPTER VI : A Game Of Hide And Seek There be a game of hide and seek that Danny Meadow Mouse once play with Buster Bear .
It be a very dreadful game for Danny .
But hard a it be for Danny , it do n't begin to be as hard a the game Lightfoot the Deer be play with the hunter in the Green Forest .
In the case of Buster Bear and Danny , the latter have simply to keep out of reach of Buster .
As long a Buster do n't get his great paw on Danny , the latter be safe .
Then , too , Danny be a very small person .
He be so small that he can hide under two or three leaf .
Wherever he be , he be pretty sure to find a hiding-place of some sort .
His small size give him advantage in a game of hide and seek .
It certainly do .
But Lightfoot the Deer be big .
He be one of the large of the people who live in the Green Forest .
Being so big , it be not easy to hide .
Moreover , a hunter with a terrible gun do not have to get close in order to kill .
Lightfoot know all this a he wait for the come of the hunter of whom Sammy Jay have warn him .
He have learn many lesson in the hunting season of the year before and he remember every one of them .
He know that to forget even one of them might cost him his life .
So , stand motionless behind a tangle of fall tree , Lightfoot listen and watch .
Presently over in the distance he hear Sammy Jay screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
A little sigh of relief escape Lightfoot .
He know that that screaming of Sammy Jay 's be a warning to tell him where the hunter be .
Knowing just where the hunter be make it easy for Lightfoot to know what to do .
A Merry Little Breeze come steal through the Green Forest .
It come from behind Lightfoot and dance on towards the hunter with the terrible gun .
Instantly Lightfoot begin to steal softly away through the Green Forest .
He take the great care to make no sound .
He go in a half-circle , stop every few step to listen and test the air with his wonderful nose .
Can you guess what Lightfoot be try to do ?
He be try to get behind the hunter so that the Merry Little Breezes would bring to him the dread man-scent .
So long a Lightfoot could get that scent , he would know where the hunter be , though he could neither see nor hear him .
If he have remain where Sammy Jay have find him , the hunter might have come within shoot distance before Lightfoot could have locate him .
So the hunter with the terrible gun walk noiselessly through the Green Forest , step with the great care to avoid snap a stick underfoot , search with keen eye every thicket and likely hiding-place for a glimpse of Lightfoot , and study the ground for trace to show that Lightfoot have be there .
CHAPTER VII : The Merry Little Breezes Help Lightfoot Could you have see the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer that morning on which the hunting season open you might have think that Lightfoot be hunt the hunter instead of the hunter hunt Lightfoot .
You see , Lightfoot be behind the hunter instead of in front of him .
He be follow the hunter , so a to keep track of him .
As long a he know just where the hunter be , he felt reasonably safe .
The Merry Little Breezes be Lightfoot 's best friend .
They always bring to him all the different scent they find a they wander through the Green Forest .
And Lightfoot 's delicate nose be so wonderful that he can take these scent , even though they be very faint , and tell just who or what have make them .
So , though he make the best possible use of his big ear and his beautiful eye , he trust more to his nose to warn him of danger .
For this reason , during the hunting season when he move about , he move in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes may be blow .
He know that they will bring to him warn of any danger which may lie in that direction .
Now the hunter with the terrible gun who be look for Lightfoot know all this , for he be wise in the way of Lightfoot and of the other little people of the Green Forest .
When he have enter the Green Forest that morning he have first of all make sure of the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be come .
Then he have begin to hunt in that direction , know that thus his scent would be carry behind him .
It be more than likely that he would have reach the hiding-place of Lightfoot the Deer before the latter would have know that he be in the Green Forest , have it not be for Sammy Jay 's warning .
When he reach the tangle of fall tree behind which Lightfoot have be hide , he work around it slowly and with the great care , hold his terrible gun ready to use instantly should Lightfoot leap out .
Presently he find Lightfoot 's footprint in the soft ground and study them he know that Lightfoot have know of his come .
`` It be that confound Jay , '' mutter the hunter .
`` Lightfoot hear him and know what it mean .
I know what he have do ; he have circle round so a to get behind me and get my scent .
It be a clever trick , a very clever trick , but two can play at that game .
I 'll just try that little trick myself . ''
So the hunter in his turn make a wide circle back , and presently there be none of the dreaded man-smell among the scent which the Merry Little Breezes bring to Lightfoot .
Lightfoot have lose track of the hunter .
CHAPTER VIII : Wit Against Wit It be a dreadful game the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer be play in the Green Forest .
It be a matching of wit against wit , the hunter seek to take Lightfoot 's life , and Lightfoot seek to save it .
The experience of other year have teach Lightfoot much of the way of hunter and not one of the thing he have learn about them be forget .
But the hunter in his turn know much of the way of Deer .
So it be that each be try his best to outguess the other .
When the hunter find the hiding-place Lightfoot have leave at the warning of Sammy Jay he follow Lightfoot 's track for a short distance .
It be slow work , and only one whose eye have be train to notice little thing could have do it .
You see , there be no snow , and only now and then , when he have step on a bit of soft ground , have Lightfoot leave a footprint .
But there be other sign which the hunter know how to read , -- a freshly upturned leaf here , and here , a bit of moss lightly crush .
These thing tell the hunter which way Lightfoot have go .
Slowly , patiently , watchfully , the hunter follow .
After a while he stop with a satisfied grin .
`` I think as much , '' he mutter .
`` He hear that pesky Jay and circle around so a to get my scent .
I 'll just cut across to my old trail and unless I be greatly mistaken , I 'll find his track there . ''
So , swiftly but silently , the hunter cut across to his old trail , and in a few moment he find just what he expect , -- one of Lightfoot 's footprint .
Once more he grin .
`` Well , old fellow , I 've outguess you this time , '' say he to himself .
`` I be behind you and the wind be from you to me , so that you can not get my scent .
I would n't be a bit surprised if you 're back right where you start from , behind that old windfall . ''
He at once begin to move forward silently and cautiously , with eye and ear alert and his terrible gun ready for instant use .
Now when Lightfoot , follow behind the hunter , have lose the scent of the latter , he guess right away that the latter have find his track and have start to follow them .
Lightfoot stand still and listen with all his might for some little sound to tell him where the hunter be .
But there be no sound and after a little Lightfoot begin to move on .
He do n't dare remain still , l the hunter should creep up within shoot distance .
There be only one direction in which it be safe for Lightfoot to move , and that be the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow .
So long a they bring him none of the dreaded man-smell , he know that he be safe .
The hunter might be behind him -- probably he be -- but ahead of him , so long a the Merry Little Breezes be blow in his face and bring no man-smell , be safety .
CHAPTER IX : Lightfoot Becomes Uncertain Lightfoot the Deer travel on through the Green Forest , straight ahead in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow .
Every few step he would raise his delicate nose and test all the scent that the Merry Little Breezes be bring .
So long a he keep the Merry Little Breezes blow in his face , he could be sure whether or not there be danger ahead of him .
Lightfoot use his nose very much a you and I use our eye .
It tell him the thing he want to know .
He know that Reddy Fox have be along ahead of him , although he do n't get so much a a glimpse of Reddy 's red coat .
Once he catch just the faint of scent which cause him to stop abruptly and test the air more carefully than ever .
It be the scent of Buster Bear .
But it be so very faint that Lightfoot know Buster be not near , so he go ahead again , but even more carefully than before .
After a little he could n't smell Buster at all , so he know then that Buster have merely pass that way when he be go to some other part of the Green Forest .
Lightfoot know that he have nothing to fear in that direction so long a the Merry Little Breezes bring him none of the dreaded man-scent , and he know that he could trust the Merry Little Breezes to bring him that scent if there should be a man anywhere in front of him .
You know the Merry Little Breezes be Lightfoot 's best friend .
But Lightfoot do n't want to keep go in that direction all day .
It would take him far away from that part of the Green Forest with which he be familiar and which he call home .
It might in time take him out of the Green Forest and that would n't do at all .
So after a while Lightfoot become uncertain .
He do n't know just what to do .
You see , he could n't tell whether or not that hunter with the terrible gun be still follow him .
Every once in a while he would stop in a thicket of young tree or behind a tangle of fall tree uproot by the wind .
There he would stand , face the direction from which he have come , and watch and listen for some sign that the hunter be still follow .
But after a few minute of this he would grow uneasy and then bind away in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow , so a to be sure of not run into danger .
`` If only I could know if that hunter be still follow , I would know good what to do , '' think Lightfoot .
`` I 've get to find out . ''
CHAPTER X : Lightfoot 's Clever Trick Lightfoot the Deer be smart .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot the Deer be smart .
He have to be , especially in the hunting season , to save his life .
If he be not smart he would have be kill long ago .
He never make the foolish mistake of thinking that other people be not smart .
He know that the hunter who have start out to follow him early that morning be not one to be easily discourage or to be fool by simple trick .
He have a very great respect for the smartness of that hunter .
He know that he could n't afford to be careless for one little minute .
The certainty of danger be sometimes easy to bear than the uncertainty of not know whether or not there really be any danger .
Lightfoot felt that if he could know just where the hunter be , he himself would know good what to do .
The hunter might have become discouraged and give up follow him .
In that case he could rest and stop worrying .
It would be good to know that he be be follow than not to know .
But how be he to find out ?
Lightfoot keep turn this over and over in his mind a he travel through the Green Forest .
Then an idea come to him .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I know just what I 'll do , '' say Lightfoot to himself .
`` I 'll find out whether or not that hunter be still follow me and I 'll get a little rest .
Goodness know , I need a rest . ''
Lightfoot bound away swiftly and run for some distance , then he turn and quickly , but very , very quietly , return in the direction from which he have just come but a little to one side of his old trail .
After a while he saw what he be look for , a pile of branch which woodchoppers have leave when they have trim the tree they have cut down .
This be near the top of a little hill .
Lightfoot go up the hill and stop behind the pile of brush .
For a few moment he stand there perfectly still , look and listen .
Then , with a little sigh of relief , he lay down , where , without be in any danger of be see himself , he could watch his old trail through the hollow at the bottom of the hill .
If the hunter be still follow him , he would pass through that hollow in plain sight .
For a long tune Lightfoot rest comfortably behind the pile of brush .
There be not a suspicious movement or a suspicious sound to show that danger be abroad in the Green Forest .
He saw Mr. and Mrs. Grouse fly down across the hollow and disappear among the tree on the other side .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum look over a hollow tree and guess that Unc ' Billy be get ready to go into winter quarter .
He saw Jumper the Hare squat down under a low-hanging branch of a hemlock-tree and prepare to take a nap .
He hear Drummer the Woodpecker at work drilling after worm in a tree not far away .
Little by little Lightfoot grow easy in his mind .
It must be that that hunter have become discouraged and be no longer follow him .
CHAPTER XI : The Hunted Watches The Hunter It be so quiet and peaceful and altogether lovely there in the Green Forest , where Lightfoot the Deer lay rest behind a pile of brush near the top of a little hill , that it do n't seem possible such a thing a sudden death could be anywhere near .
It do n't seem possible that there could be any need for watchfulness .
But Lightfoot long ago have learn that often danger be near when it seem least to be expect .
So , though he would have like very much to have take a nap , Lightfoot be too wise to do anything so foolish .
He keep his beautiful , great , soft eye fix in the direction from which the hunter with the terrible gun would come if he be still follow that trail .
He keep his great ear gently move to catch every little sound .
Lightfoot have about decide that the hunter have give up hunt for that day , but he do n't let this keep him from be any the less watchful .
It be well to be overwatchful than the least bit careless .
By and by , Lightfoot 's keen ear catch the sound of the snapping of a little stick in the distance .
It be so faint a sound that you or I would have miss it altogether .
But Lightfoot hear it and instantly he be doubly alert , watch in the direction from which that faint sound have come .
After what seem a long , long time he saw something moving , and a moment later a man come into view .
It be the hunter and across one arm he carry the terrible gun .
Lightfoot know now that this hunter have patience and perseverance and have not yet give up hope of get near enough to shoot Lightfoot .
He move forward slowly , set each foot down with the great care , so a not to snap a stick or rustle the leaf .
He be watch sharply ahead , ready to shoot should he catch a glimpse of Lightfoot within range .
Right along through the hollow at the foot of the little hill below Lightfoot the hunter pass .
He be no longer study the ground for Lightfoot 's track , because the ground be so hard and dry down there that Lightfoot have leave no track .
He be simply hunt in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow because he know that Lightfoot have go in that direction , and he also know that if Lightfoot be still ahead of him , his scent could not be carry to Lightfoot .
He be do what be call `` hunting up-wind . ''
Lightfoot keep perfectly still and watch the hunter disappear among the tree .
Then he silently get to his foot , shake himself lightly , and noiselessly stole away over the hilltop towards another part of the Green Forest .
He felt sure that that hunter would not find him again that day .
CHAPTER XII : Lightfoot Visits Paddy The Beaver Deep in the Green Forest be the pond where live Paddy the Beaver .
It be Paddy 's own pond , for he make it himself .
He make it by build a dam across the Laughing Brook .
When Lightfoot bound away through the Green Forest , after watch the hunter pas through the hollow below him , he remember Paddy 's pond .
`` That 's where I 'll go , '' think Lightfoot .
`` It be such a lonesome part of the Green Forest that I do not believe that hunter will come there .
I 'll just run over and make Paddy a friendly call . ''
So Lightfoot bound along deep and deeply into the Green Forest .
Presently through the tree he catch the gleam of water .
It be Paddy 's pond .
Lightfoot approach it cautiously .
He felt sure he be rid of the hunter who have follow him so far that day , but he know that there might be other hunter in the Green Forest .
He know that he could n't afford to be careless for even one little minute .
Lightfoot have live long enough to know that most of the sad thing and dreadful thing that happen in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows be due to carelessness .
No one who be hunt , be he big or little , can afford ever to be careless .
Now Lightfoot have know of hunter hide near water , hop to shoot him when he come to drink .
That always seem to Lightfoot a dreadful thing , an unfair thing .
But hunter have do it before and they might do it again .
So Lightfoot be careful to approach Paddy 's pond upwind .
That be , he approach the side of the pond from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow toward him , and all the time he keep his nose working .
He know that if any hunter be hide there , the Merry Little Breezes would bring him their scent and thus warn him .
He have almost reach the edge of Paddy 's pond when from the farther shore there come a sudden crash .
It startle Lightfoot terribly for just an instant .
Then he guess what it mean .
That crash be the fall of a tree .
There be n't enough wind to blow over even the most shaky dead tree .
There have be no sound of ax , so he know it could not have be chop down by men .
It must be that Paddy the Beaver have cut it , and if Paddy have be work in daylight , it be certain that no one have be around that pond for a long time .
So Lightfoot hurry forward eagerly , cautiously .
When he reach the bank he look across towards where the sound of that fall tree have come from ; a branch of a tree be move along in the water and half hide by it be a brown head .
It be Paddy the Beaver take the branch to his food pile .
CHAPTER XIII : Lightfoot And Paddy Become Partners The instant Lightfoot saw Paddy the Beaver he know that for the time be , at least , there be no danger .
He know that Paddy be one of the shy of all the little people of the Green Forest and that when he be find work in the daytime it mean that he have be undisturbed for a long time ; otherwise he would work only at night .
Paddy saw Lightfoot almost as soon a he step out on the bank .
He keep right on swim with the branch of a poplar-tree until he reach his food pile , which , you know , be in the water .
There he force the branch down until it be hold by other branch already sink in the pond .
This do , he swim over to where Lightfoot be watch .
`` Hello , Lightfoot ! ''
he exclaim .
`` You be look handsomer than ever .
How be you feel these fine autumn day ? ''
`` Anxious , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` I be feel terribly anxious .
Do you know what day this be ? ''
`` No , '' reply Paddy , `` I do n't know what day it be , and I do n't particularly care .
It be enough for me that it be one of the fine day we 've have for a long time . ''
`` I wish I could feel that way , '' say Lightfoot wistfully .
`` I wish I could feel that way , Paddy , but I ca n't .
No , Sir , I ca n't .
You see , this be the first of the most dreadful day in all the year for me .
The hunter start look for me before Mr. Sun be really out of bed .
At least one hunter do , and I do n't doubt there be others .
I fool that one , but from now to the end of the hunting season there will not be a single moment of daylight when I will feel absolutely safe . ''
Paddy creep out on the bank and chew a little twig of poplar thoughtfully .
Paddy say he can always think good if he be chew something .
`` That 's bad news , Lightfoot .
I 'm sorry to hear it .
I certainly be sorry to hear it , '' say Paddy .
`` Why anybody want to hunt such a handsome fellow a you be , I can not understand .
My , but that 's a beautiful set of antler you have ! ''
`` They be the best I 've ever have ; but do you know , Paddy , I suspect that they may be one of the reason I be hunt so , '' reply Lightfoot a little sadly .
`` Good look be not always to be desire .
Have you see any hunter around here lately ? ''
Paddy shake his Lead .
`` Not a single hunter , '' he reply .
`` I tell you what it be , Lightfoot , let 's be partner for a while .
You stay right around my pond .
If I see or hear or smell anything suspicious , I 'll warn you .
You do the same for me .
Two set of eye , ear and nose be good than one .
What do you say , Lightfoot ? ''
`` I 'll do it , '' reply Lightfoot .
CHAPTER XIV : How Paddy Warned Lightfoot It be a queer partnership , that partnership between Lightfoot and Paddy , but it be a good partnership .
They have be the best of friend for a long time .
Paddy have always be glad to have Lightfoot visit his pond .
To tell the truth , he be rather fond of handsome Lightfoot .
You know Paddy be himself not at all handsome .
On land he be a rather clumsy-looking fellow and really homely .
So he admire Lightfoot greatly .
That be one reason why he propose that they be partner .
Lightfoot himself think the idea a splendid one .
He spend that night browse not far from Paddy 's pond .
With the come of daylight he lay down in a thicket of young hemlock-trees near the upper end of the pond .
It be a quiet , peaceful day .
It be so quiet and peaceful and beautiful it be hard to believe that hunter with terrible gun be search the Green Forest for beautiful Lightfoot .
But they be , and Lightfoot know that sooner or later one of them would be sure to visit Paddy 's pond .
So , though he rest and take short nap all through that beautiful day , he be anxious .
He could n't help but be .
The next morning find Lightfoot back in the same place .
But this morning he take no nap .
He rest , but all the time he be watchful and alert .
A feeling of uneasiness possess him .
He felt in his bone that danger in the shape of a hunter with a terrible gun be not far distant .
But the hour slip away , and little by little he grow less uneasy .
He begin to hope that that day would prove as peaceful a the previous day have be .
Then suddenly there be a sharp report from the farther end of Paddy 's pond .
It be almost like a pistol shot .
However , it be n't a pistol shot .
It be n't a shot at all .
It be the slap of Paddy 's broad tail on the surface of the water .
Instantly Lightfoot be on his foot .
He know just what that meant .
He know that Paddy have see or hear or smell a hunter .
It be even so .
Paddy have hear a dry stick snap .
It be a very tiny snap , but it be enough to warn Paddy .
With only his head above water he have watch in the direction from which that sound have come .
Presently , steal quietly along towards the pond , a hunter have come in view .
Instantly Paddy have bring his broad tail down on the water with all his force .
He know that Lightfoot would know that that mean danger .
Then Paddy have dive , and swim under water , have seek the safety of his house .
He have do his part , and there be nothing more he could do .
CHAPTER XV : The Three Watchers When Paddy the Beaver slap the water with his broad tail , make a noise like a pistol shot , Lightfoot understand that this be mean a a warning of danger .
He be on his foot instantly , with eye , ear and nose seek the cause of Paddy 's warning .
After a moment or two he steal softly up to the top of a little ridge some distance back from Paddy 's pond , but from the top of which he could see the whole of the pond .
There he hide among some close-growing young hemlock-trees .
It be n't long before he saw a hunter with a terrible gun come down to the shore of the pond .
Now the hunter have hear Paddy slap the water with his broad tail .
Of course .
There would have be something very wrong with his ear have he fail to hear it .
`` Confound that Beaver ! ''
mutter the hunter crossly .
`` If there be a Deer anywhere around this pond , he probably be on his way now .
I 'll have a look around and see if there be any sign . ''
So the hunter go on to the edge of Paddy 's pond and then begin to walk around it , study the ground a he walk .
Presently he find the footprint of Lightfoot in the mud where Lightfoot have go down to the pond to drink .
`` I think as much , '' mutter the hunter .
`` Those track be make last night .
That Deer probably be lie down somewhere near here , and I might have have a shot but for that pesky Beaver .
I 'll just look the land over , and then I think I 'll wait here awhile .
If that Deer be n't too badly scar , he may come back . ''
So the hunter go quite around the pond , look into all likely hiding-places .
He find where Lightfoot have be lie , and he know that in all probability Lightfoot have be there when Paddy give the danger signal .
`` It 's of no use for me to try to follow him , '' think the hunter .
`` It be too dry for me to track him .
He may not be so badly scar , after all .
I 'll just find a good place and wait . ''
So the hunter find an old log behind some small tree and there sit down .
He could see all around Paddy 's pond .
He sit perfectly still .
He be a clever hunter and he know that so long a he do not move he be not likely to be notice by any sharp eye that might come that way .
What he do n't know be that Lightfoot have be watch him all the time and be even then stand where he could see him .
And another thing he do n't know be that Paddy the Beaver have come out of his house and , swim under water , have reach a hiding-place on the opposite shore from which he too have see the hunter sit down on the log .
So the hunter watch for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy watch the hunter .
CHAPTER XVI : Visitors To Paddy 's Pond That hunter be a man of patience .
Also he be a man who understand the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
He know that if he would not be see he must not move .
So he do n't move .
He keep as motionless a if he be a part of the very log on which he be sit .
For some time there be no sign of any living thing .
Then , from over the tree top in the direction of the Big River , come the whistle of swift wing , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack alight with a splash in the pond .
For a few moment they sit on the water , a picture of watchful suspicion .
They be look and listen to make sure that no danger be near .
Satisfied at last , they begin to clean their feather .
It be plain that they felt safe .
Paddy the Beaver be tempt to warn them that they be not as safe a they think , but as long a the hunter do not move Paddy decide to wait .
Now the hunter be sorely tempt to shoot these Ducks , but he know that if he do he would have no chance that day to get Lightfoot the Deer , and it be Lightfoot he want .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam about within easy range of that terrible gun without once suspect that danger be anywhere near .
By and by the hunter 's keen eye catch a movement at one end of Paddy 's dam .
An instant later Bobby Coon appear .
It be clear that Bobby be quite unsuspicious .
He carry something , but just what the hunter could not make out .
He take it down to the edge of the water and there carefully wash it .
Then he climb up on Paddy 's dam and begin to eat .
You know Bobby Coon be very particular about his food .
Whenever there be water near , Bobby wash his food before eating .
Once more the hunter be tempt , but do not yield to the temptation , which be a very good thing for Bobby Coon .
All this Lightfoot saw a he stand among the little hemlock-trees at the top of the ridge behind the hunter .
He saw and he understand .
`` It be because he want to kill me that he do n't shoot at Mr. and Mrs. Quack or Bobby Coon , '' think Lightfoot a little bitterly .
`` What have I ever do that he should be so anxious to kill me ? ''
Still the hunter sit without move .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack contentedly hunt for food in the mud at the bottom of Paddy 's pond .
Bobby Coon finish his meal , cross the dam and disappear in the Green Forest .
He have go off to take a nap somewhere .
Time slip away .
The hunter continue to watch patiently for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy the Beaver watch the hunter .
Finally , another visitor appear at the upper end of the pond -- a visitor in a wonderful coat of red .
It be Reddy Fox .
CHAPTER XVII : Sammy Jay Arrives When Reddy Fox arrive at the pond of Paddy the Beaver , the hunter who be hide there saw him instantly .
So do Lightfoot .
But no one else do .
He approach in that cautious , careful way that he always use when he be hunt .
The instant he reach a place where he could see all over Paddy 's pond , he stop as suddenly a if he have be turn to stone .
He stop with one foot lift in the act of take a step .
He have see Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Now you know there be nothing Reddy Fox like good for a dinner than a Duck .
The instant he saw Mr. and Mrs. Quack , a gleam of long crept into his eye and his mouth begin to water .
He stand motionless until both Mr. and Mrs. Quack have their head under water a they search for food in the mud in the bottom of the pond .
Then like a red flash he bound out of sight behind the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Presently the hunter saw Reddy 's black nose at the end of the dam a Reddy peep around it to watch Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
The latter be slowly move along in that direction a they feed .
Reddy be quick to see this .
If he remain right where he be , and Mr. And Mrs. Quack keep on feeding in that direction , the chance be that he would have a dinner of fat Duck .
All he need do be to be patient and wait .
So , with his eye fix fast on Mr. and Mrs. Quack , Reddy Fox crouch behind Paddy 's dam and wait .
Watching Reddy and the Ducks , the hunter almost forget Lightfoot the Deer .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack be get very near to where Reddy be wait for them .
The hunter be tempt to get up and frighten those Ducks .
He do n't want Reddy Fox to have them , because he hop some day to get them himself .
`` I suppose , '' think he , `` I be foolish not to shoot them when I have the chance .
They be too far away now , and it look very much a if that red rascal will get one of them .
I believe I 'll spoil that red scamp 's plan by frighten them away .
I do n't believe that Deer will be back here to-day anyway , so I may as well save those Ducks . ''
But the hunter do nothing of the kind .
You see , just a he be get ready to step out from his hiding-place , Sammy Jay arrive .
He perch in a tree close to the end of Paddy 's dam and at once he spy Reddy Fox .
It do n't take him a second to discover what Reddy be hide there for .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
scream Sammy , and then look down at Reddy with a mischievous look in his sharp eye .
There be nothing Sammy Jay delight in more than in upset the plan of Reddy Fox .
At the sound of Sammy 's voice , Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam hurriedly towards the middle of the pond .
They know exactly what that warn meant .
Reddy Fox look up at Sammy Jay and snarl angrily .
Then , know it be useless to hide longer , he bound away through the Green Forest to hunt elsewhere .
CHAPTER XVIII : The Hunter Loses His Temper The hunter , hide near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , chuckle silently .
That be to say , he laugh without make any sound .
The hunter think the warning of Mr. and Mrs. Quack by Sammy Jay be a great joke on Reddy .
To tell the truth , he be very much please .
As you know , he want those Ducks himself .
He suspect that they would stay in that little pond for some day , and he plan to return there and shoot them after he have get Lightfoot the Deer .
He want to get Lightfoot first , and he know that to shoot at anything else might spoil his chance of get a shot at Lightfoot .
`` Sammy Jay do me a good turn , '' think the hunter , `` although he do n't know it .
Reddy Fox certainly would have catch one of those Ducks have Sammy not come along just when he do .
It would have be a shame to have have one of them catch by that Fox .
I mean to get one , and I hope both of them , myself . ''
Now when you come to think of it , it would have be a far great shame for the hunter to have kill Mr. and Mrs. Quack than for Reddy Fox to have do so .
Reddy be hunt them because he be hungry .
The hunter would have shoot them for sport .
He do n't need them .
He have plenty of other food .
Reddy Fox do n't kill just for the pleasure of kill .
So the hunter continue to sit in his hiding-place with very friendly feeling for Sammy Jay .
Sammy watch Reddy Fox disappear and then fly over to that side of the pond where the hunter be .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack call their thanks to Sammy , to which he reply , that he have do no more for them than he would do for anybody , or than they would have do for him .
For some time Sammy sit quietly in the top of the tree , but all the time his sharp eye be very busy .
By and by he spy the hunter sit on the log .
At first he could n't make out just what it be he be look at .
It do n't move , but nevertheless Sammy be suspicious .
Presently he fly over to a tree where he could see good .
Right away he spy the terrible gun , and he know just what that be .
Once more he begin to yell , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lung .
It be then that the hunter lose his temper .
He know that now he have be discover by Sammy Jay , and it be useless to remain there longer .
He be angry clear through .
CHAPTER XIX : Sammy Jay Is Modest As soon a the angry hunter with the terrible gun have disappear among the tree of the Green Forest , and Lightfoot be sure that he have go for good , Lightfoot come out from his hiding-place on top of the ridge and walk down to the pond of Paddy the Beaver for a drink .
He know that it be quite safe to do so , for Sammy Jay have follow the hunter , all the time screaming , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Every one within hear could tell just where that hunter be by Sammy 's voice .
It keep grow fainter and fainter , and by that Lightfoot know that the hunter be get far and far away .
Paddy the Beaver swim out from his hiding-place and climb out on the bank near Lightfoot .
There be a twinkle in his eye .
`` That blue-coated mischief-maker be n't such a bad fellow at heart , after all , be he ? ''
say he .
Lightfoot lift his beautiful head and set his ear forward to catch the sound of Sammy 's voice in the distance .
`` Sammy Jay may be a mischief-maker , a some people say , '' say he , `` but you can always count on him to prove a true friend in time of danger .
He bring me warning of the come of the hunter the other morning .
You saw him save Mr. and Mrs. Quack a little while ago , and then he actually drive that hunter away .
I suppose Sammy Jay have save more life than any one I know of .
I wish he would come back here and let me thank him . ''
Some time later Sammy Jay do come back .
`` Well , '' say he , a he smooth his feather , `` I chase that fellow clear to the edge of the Green Forest , so I guess there will be nothing more to fear from him today .
I 'm glad to see he have n't get you yet , Lightfoot .
I 've be a bit worried about you . ''
`` Sammy , '' say Lightfoot , `` you be one of the best friend I have .
I do n't know how I can ever thank you for what you have do for me . ''
`` Do n't try , '' reply Sammy shortly .
`` I have n't do anything but what anybody else would have do .
Old Mother Nature give me a pair of good eye and a strong voice .
I simply make the best use of them I can .
Just to see a hunter with a terrible gun make me angry clear through .
I 'd rather spoil his hunt than eat . ''
`` You want to watch out , Sammy .
One of these day a hunter will lose his temper and shoot you , just to get even with you , '' warn Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't worry about me , '' reply Sammy .
`` I know just how far those terrible gun can shoot , and I do n't take any chance .
By the way , Lightfoot , the Green Forest be full of hunter look for you .
I 've see a lot of them , and I know they be look for you because they do not shoot at anybody else even when they have a chance . ''
CHAPTER XX : Lightfoot Hears A Dreadful Sound Day after day , Lightfoot the Deer play hide and seek for his life with the hunter who be seek to kill him .
He saw them many time , though not one of them saw him .
More than once a hunter pass close to Lightfoot 's hiding-place without once suspect it .
But poor Lightfoot be feel the strain .
He be grow thin , and he be so nervous that the fall of a dead leaf from a tree would startle him .
There be nothing quite so terrible a be continually hunt .
It be get so that Lightfoot half expect a hunter to step out from behind every tree .
Only when the Black Shadows wrap the Green Forest in darkness do he know a moment of peace .
And those hour of safety be fill with dread of what the next day might bring .
Early one morning a terrible sound ring through the Green Forest and bring Lightfoot to his foot with a startled jump .
It be the baying of hound follow a trail .
At first it do not sound so terrible .
Lightfoot have often hear it before .
Many time he have listen to the baying of Bowser the Hound , a he follow Reddy Fox .
It have not sound so terrible then because it mean no danger to Lightfoot .
At first , a he listen early that morning , he take it for grant that those hound be after Reddy , and so , though startle , he be not worry .
But suddenly a dreadful suspicion come to him and he grow more and more anxious a he listen .
In a few minute there be no longer any doubt in his mind .
Those hound be follow his trail .
It be then that the sound of that baying become terrible .
He must run for his life !
Those hound would give him no rest .
And he know that in run from them , he would no longer be able to watch so closely for the hunter with terrible gun .
He would no longer be able to hide in thicket .
At any time he might be drive right past one of those hunter .
Lightfoot bound away with such leap a only Lightfoot can make .
In a little while the voice of the hound grow fainter .
Lightfoot stop to get his breath and stand trembling a he listen .
The baying of the hound again grow louder and louder .
Those wonderful nose of theirs be follow his trail without the least difficulty .
In a panic of fear , Lightfoot bound away again .
As he cross an old road , the Green Forest rang with the roar of a terrible gun .
Something tore a strip of bark from the trunk of a tree just above Lightfoot 's back .
It be a bullet and it have just miss Lightfoot .
It add to his terror and this in turn add to his speed .
So Lightfoot ran and ran , and behind him the voice of the hound continue to ring through the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXI : How Lightfoot Got Rid Of The Hounds Poor Lightfoot !
It seem to him that there be no such thing a justice and fair play .
Had it be just one hunter at a time against whom he have to match his wit it would not have be so bad .
But there be many hunter with terrible gun look for him , and in dodge one he be likely at any time to meet another .
This in itself seem terribly unfair and unjust .
But now , add to this be the great unfairness of be trail by hound .
Do you wonder that Lightfoot think of men a utterly heartless ?
You see , he could not know that those hound have not be put on his trail , but have leave home to hunt for their own pleasure .
He could not know that it be against the law to hunt him with dog .
But though none of those hunter look for him be guilty of have put the hound on his trail , each one of them be willing and eager to take advantage of the fact that the hound be on his trail .
Already he have be shoot at once and he know that he would be shoot at again if he should be drive where a hunter be hide .
The ground be damp and scent always lie best on damp ground .
This make it easy for the hound to follow him with their wonderful nose .
Lightfoot try every trick he could think of to make those hound lose the scent .
`` If only I could make them lose it long enough for me to get a little rest , it would help , '' pant Lightfoot , a he pause for just an instant to listen to the baying of the hound .
But he could n't .
They allow him no rest .
He be become very , very tired .
He could no longer bind lightly over fall log or brush , a he have do at first .
His lung ache a he pant for breath .
He realize that even though he should escape the hunter he would meet an even more terrible death unless he could get rid of those hound .
There would come a time when he would have to stop .
Then those hound would catch up with him and tear him to piece .
It be then that he remember the Big River .
He turn towards it .
It be his only chance and he know it .
Straight through the Green Forest , out across the Green Meadows to the bank of the Big River , Lightfoot run .
For just a second he pause to look behind .
The hound be almost at his heel .
Lightfoot hesitate no longer but plunge into the Big River and begin to swim .
On the bank the hound stop and bay their disappointment , for they do not dare follow Lightfoot out into the Big River .
CHAPTER XXII : Lightfoot 's Long Swim The Big River be very wide .
It would have be a long swim for Lightfoot have he be fresh and at his best .
Strange a it may seem , Lightfoot be a splendid swimmer , despite his small , delicate foot .
He enjoy swimming .
But now Lightfoot be terribly tire from his long run ahead of the hound .
For a time he swim rapidly , but those weary muscle grow still more weary , and by the time he reach the middle of the Big River it seem to him that he be not get ahead at all .
At first he have try to swim towards a clump of tree he could see on the opposite bank above the point where he have enter the water , but to do this he have to swim against the current and he soon find that he have n't the strength to do this .
Then he turn and head for a point down the Big River .
This make the swimming easy , for the current help him instead of hinder him .
Even then he could feel his strength leave him .
Had he escape those hound and the terrible hunter only to be drown in the Big River ?
This new fear give him more strength for a little while .
But it do not last long .
He be three fourth of the way across the Big River but still that other shore seem a long distance away .
Little by little hope die in the heart of Lightfoot the Deer .
He would keep on just as long a he could and then , -- well , it be well to drown than to be tear to piece by dog .
Just a Lightfoot felt that he could not take another stroke and that the end be at hand , one foot touch something .
Then , all four foot touch .
A second later he have find solid footing and be stand with the water only up to his knee .
He have find a little sand bar out in the Big River .
With a little gasp of return hope , Lightfoot wad along until the water begin to grow deep again .
He have hop that he would be able to wade ashore , but he saw now that he would have to swim again .
So for a long time he remain right where he be .
He be so tired that he tremble all over , and he be as frightened a he be tire .
He know that stand out there in the water he could be see for a long distance , and that make him nervous and fearful .
Supposing a hunter on the shore he be try to reach should see him .
Then he would have no chance at all , for the hunter would simply wait for him and shoot him a he come out of the water .
But rest he must , and so he stand for a long time on the little sand bar in the Big River .
And little by little he felt his strength returning .
CHAPTER XXIII : Lightfoot Finds A Friend As Lightfoot rest , try to recover his breath , out there on the little sand bar in the Big River , his great , soft , beautiful eye watch first one bank and then the other .
On the bank he have leave , he could see two black-and-white speck move about , and across the water come the barking of dog .
Those two speck be the hound who have drive him into the Big River .
They be bark now , instead of baying .
Presently a brown form join the black-and-white speck .
It be a hunter drawn there by the barking of the dog .
He be too far away to be dangerous , but the mere sight of him fill Lightfoot with terror again .
He watch the hunter walk along the bank and disappear in the bush .
Presently out of the bush come a boat , and in it be the hunter .
He head straight towards Lightfoot , and then Lightfoot know that his brief rest be at an end .
He must once more swim or be shoot by the hunter in the boat .
So Lightfoot again strike out for the shore .
His rest have give him new strength , but still he be very , very tired and swimming be hard work .
Slowly , oh so slowly , he draw nearer to the bank .
What new danger might be wait there , he do not know .
He have never be on that side of the Big River .
He know nothing of the country on that side .
But the uncertainty be good than the certainty behind him .
He could hear the sound of the oar a the hunter in the boat do his best to get to him before he should reach the shore .
On Lightfoot struggle .
At last he felt bottom beneath his foot .
He stagger up through some bush along the bank and then for an instant it seem to him his heart stop beat .
Right in front of him stand a man .
He have come out into the back yard of the home of that man .
It be doubtful which be the more surprised , Lightfoot or the man .
Right then and there Lightfoot give up in despair .
He could n't run .
It be all he could do to walk .
The long chase by the hound on the other side of the Big River and the long swim across the Big River have take all his strength .
Not a spark of hope remain to Lightfoot .
He simply stand still and tremble , partly with fear and partly with weariness .
Then a surprising thing happen .
The man speak softly .
He advance , not threateningly but slowly , and in a friendly way .
He walk around back of Lightfoot and then straight towards him .
Lightfoot walk on a few step , and the man follow , still talk softly .
Little by little he urge Lightfoot on , drive him towards an open shed in which be a pile of hay .
Without understand just how , Lightfoot know that he have find a friend .
So he enter the open shed and with a long sigh lay down in the soft hay .
CHAPTER XXIV : The Hunter Is Disappointed How he know he be safe , Lightfoot the Deer Could n't have tell you .
He just know it , that be all .
He could n't understand a word say by the man in whose yard he find himself when he climb the bank after his long swim across the Big River .
But he do n't have to understand word to know that he have find a friend .
So he allow the man to drive him gently over to an open shed where there be a pile of soft hay and there he lay down , so tired that it seem to him he could n't move another step .
It be only a few minute later that the hunter who have follow Lightfoot across the River reach the bank and scramble out of his boat .
Lightfoot 's friend be wait just at the top of the bank .
Of course the hunter saw him at once .
`` Hello , Friend ! ''
cry the hunter .
`` Did you see a Deer pas this way a few minute ago ?
He swim across the river , and if I know anything about it he 's too tired to travel far now .
I 've be hunt that fellow for several day , and if I have any luck at all I ought to get him this time . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't have any luck at all , '' say Lightfoot 's friend .
`` You see , I do n't allow any hunting on my land . ''
The hunter look surprised , and then his surprise give way to anger .
`` You mean , '' say he , `` that you intend to get that Deer yourself . ''
Lightfoot 's friend shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I mean that that Deer be not to be kill if I can prevent it , and while it be on my land , I think I can .
The best thing for you to do , my friend , be to get into your boat and row back where you come from .
Are those your hound bark over there ? ''
`` No , '' reply the hunter promptly .
`` I know the law just as well a you do , and it be against the law to hunt Deer with dog .
I do n't even know who own those two hound over there . ''
`` That may be true , '' reply Lightfoot 's friend .
`` I do n't doubt it be true .
But you be willing to take advantage of the fact that the dog of some one else have break the law .
You know that those dog have drive that Deer into the Big River and you promptly take advantage of the fact to try to reach that Deer before he could get across .
You be not hunt for the pleasure of hunt but just to kill .
You do n't know the meaning of justice or fairness .
Now get off my land .
Get back into your boat and off my land as quick a you can .
That Deer be not very far from here and so tire that he can not move .
Just as long a he will stay here , he will be safe , and I hope he will stay until this miserable hunting season be end .
Now go . ''
Muttering angrily , the hunter get back into his boat and push off , but he do n't row back across the river .
CHAPTER XXV : The Hunter Lies In Wait If ever there be an angry hunter , it be the one who have follow Lightfoot the Deer across the Big River .
When he be order to get off the land where Lightfoot have climb out , he get back into his boat , but he do n't row back to the other side .
Instead , he row down the river , finally land on the same side but on land which Lightfoot 's friend do not own .
`` When that Deer have become rest he 'll become uneasy , '' think the hunter .
`` He wo n't stay on that man 's land .
He 'll start for the near wood .
I 'll go up there and wait for him .
I 'll get that Deer if only to spite that fellow back there who drive me off .
Had it not be for him , I 'd have that Deer right now .
He be too tire to have go far .
He 's get the handsome pair of antler I 've see for year .
I can sell that head of his for a good price . ''
So the hunter tie his boat to a tree and once more climb out .
He climb up the bank and study the land .
Across a wide meadow he could see a brushy old pasture and back of that some thick wood .
He grin .
`` That 's where that Deer will head for , '' he decide .
`` There be n't any other place for him to go .
All I 've get to do be be patient and wait . ''
So the hunter take his terrible gun and tramp across the meadow to the brush-grown pasture .
There he hide among the bush where he could peep out and watch the land of Lightfoot 's friend .
He be still angry because he have be prevent from shoot Lightfoot .
At the same time he chuckle , because he think himself very smart .
Lightfoot could n't possibly reach the shelter of the wood without give him a shot , and he have n't the least doubt that Lightfoot would start for the wood just as soon a he felt able to travel .
So he make himself comfortable and prepared to wait the rest of the day , if necessary .
Now Lightfoot 's friend who have drive the hunter off have see him row down the river and he have guess just what be in that hunter 's mind .
`` We 'll fool him , '' say he , chuckle to himself , a he walk back towards the shed where poor Lightfoot be rest .
He do not go too near Lightfoot , for he do not want to alarm him .
He just keep within sight of Lightfoot , pay no attention to him but go about his work .
You see , this man love and understand the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and he know that there be no sure way of win Lightfoot 's confidence and trust than by appear to take no notice of him .
Lightfoot , watch him , understood .
He know that this man be a friend and would do him no harm .
Little by little , the wonderful , bless feeling of safety crept over Lightfoot .
No hunter could harm him here .
CHAPTER XXVI : Lightfoot Does The Wise Thing All the rest of that day the hunter with the terrible gun lay hide in the bush of the pasture where he could watch for Lightfoot the Deer to leave the place of safety he have find .
It require a lot of patience on the part of the hunter , but the hunter have plenty of patience .
It sometimes seem a if hunter have more patience than any other people .
But this hunter wait in vain .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sink down in the west to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
The Black Shadows creep out and grow blacker .
One by one the star begin to twinkle .
Still the hunter wait , and still there be no sign of Lightfoot .
At last it become so dark that it be useless for the hunter to remain long .
Disappointed and once more become angry , he tramp back to the Big River , climb into his boat and row across to the other side .
Then he tramp home and his thought be very bitter .
He know that he could have shoot Lightfoot have it not be for the man who have protect the Deer .
He even begin to suspect that this man have himself kill Lightfoot , for he have be sure that as soon a he have become rested Lightfoot would start for the wood , and Lightfoot have do nothing of the kind .
In fact , the hunter have not have so much a another glimpse of Lightfoot .
The reason that the hunter have be so disappointed be that Lightfoot be smart .
He be smart enough to understand that the man who be save him from the hunter have do it because he be a true friend .
All the afternoon Lightfoot have rest on a bed of soft hay in an open shed and have watch this man go about his work and take the utmost care to do nothing to frighten Lightfoot .
`` He not only will let no one else harm me , but he himself will not harm me , '' think Lightfoot .
`` As long a he be near , I be safe .
I 'll stay right around here until the hunting season be over , then I 'll swim back across the Big River to my home in the dear Green Forest . ''
So all afternoon Lightfoot rest and do not so much a put his nose outside that open shed .
That be why the hunter get no glimpse of him .
When it become dark , so dark that he know there be no longer danger , Lightfoot get up and step out under the star .
He be feel quite himself again .
His splendid strength have return .
He bound lightly across the meadow and up into the brushy pasture where the hunter have be hide .
There and in the wood back of the pasture he browse , but at the first hint of the come of another day , Lightfoot turn back , and when his friend , the farmer , come out early in the morning to milk the cow , there be Lightfoot back in the open shed .
The farmer smile .
`` You be as wise a you be handsome , old fellow , '' say he .
CHAPTER XXVII : Sammy Jay Worries It be n't often Sammy Jay worry about anybody but himself .
Truth to tell , he do n't worry about himself very often .
You see , Sammy be smart , and he know he be smart .
Under that point cap of his be some of the clever wit in all the Green Forest .
Sammy seldom worry about himself because he feel quite able to take care of himself .
But Sammy Jay be worry now .
He be worry about Lightfoot the Deer .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay be worry about Lightfoot the Deer .
For two day he have be unable to find Lightfoot or any trace of Lightfoot .
But he do find plenty of hunter with terrible gun .
It seem to him that they be everywhere in the Green Forest .
Sammy begin to suspect that one of them must have succeed in kill Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy know all of Lightfoot 's hiding-places .
He visit every one of them .
Lightfoot be n't to be find , and no one whom Sammy meet have see Lightfoot for two day .
Sammy felt badly .
You see , he be very fond of Lightfoot .
You remember it be Sammy who warn Lightfoot of the come of the hunter on the morning when the dreadful hunt season begin .
Ever since the hunting season have open , Sammy have do his best to make trouble for the hunter .
Whenever he have find one of them he have scream at the top of his voice to warn every one within hearing just where that hunter be .
Once a hunter have lose his temper and shot at Sammy , but Sammy have suspect that something of the kind might happen , and he have take care to keep just out of reach .
Sammy have know all about the chasing of Lightfoot by the hound .
Everybody in the Green Forest have know about it .
You see , everybody have hear the voice of those hound .
Once , Lightfoot have pass right under the tree in which Sammy be sit , and a few moment later the two hound have pass with their nose to the ground a they follow Lightfoot 's trail .
That be the last Sammy have see of Lightfoot .
He have be able to save Lightfoot from the hunter , but he could n't save him from the hound .
The more Sammy thought thing over , the more he worry .
`` I be afraid those hound drive him out where a hunter could get a shot and kill him , or else that they tire him out and kill him themselves , '' think Sammy .
`` If he be alive , somebody certainly would have see him and nobody have , since the day those hound chase him .
I declare , I have quite lose my appetite worry about him .
If Lightfoot be dead , and I be almost sure he be , the Green Forest will never seem the same . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII : The Hunting Season Ends The very bad thing come to an end at last .
No matter how bad a thing be , it can not last forever .
So it be with the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
There come a day when the law protect all Deer , -- a day when the hunter could no longer go search for Lightfoot .
Usually there be great rejoicing among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows when the hunting season end and they know that Lightfoot would be in no more danger until the next hunting season .
But this year there be no rejoicing .
You see , no one could find Lightfoot .
The last see of him be when he be run for his life with two hound bay on his trail and the Green Forest fill with hunter watch for a chance to shoot him .
Sammy Jay have hunt everywhere through the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , whose eye be quite as sharp a those of Sammy Jay , have join in the search .
They have find no trace of Lightfoot .
Paddy the Beaver say that for three day Lightfoot have not visit his pond for a drink .
Billy Mink , who travel up and down the Laughing Brook , have look for Lightfoot 's footprint in the soft earth along the bank and have find only old one .
Jumper the Hare have visit Lightfoot 's favorite eating place at night , but Lightfoot have not be in any of them .
`` I tell you what it be , '' say Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something have happen to Lightfoot .
Either those hound catch him and kill him , or he be shoot by one of those hunter .
The Green Forest will never be the same without him .
I do n't think I shall want to come over here very much .
There be n't one of all the other people who live in the Green Forest who would be miss a Lightfoot will be . ''
Bobby Coon nod .
`` That 's true , Sammy , '' say he .
`` Without Lightfoot , the Green Forest will never be the same .
He never harm anybody .
Why those hunter should have be so anxious to kill one so beautiful be something I ca n't understand .
For that matter , I do n't understand why they want to kill any of u .
If they really need u for food , it would be a different matter , but they do n't .
Have you be up in the Old Pasture and ask Old Man Coyote if he have see anything of Lightfoot ? ''
Sammy nod .
`` I 've be up there twice , '' say he .
`` Old Man Coyote have be lie very low during the day , but night he have do a lot of travel .
You know Old Man Coyote have a mighty good nose , but not once since the day those hound chase Lightfoot have he find so much a a tiny whiff of Lightfoot 's scent .
I think he might have find the place where Lightfoot be kill , but he have n't , although he have look for it .
Well , the hunting season for Lightfoot be over , but I be afraid it have end too late . ''
CHAPTER XXIX : Mr. And Mrs. Quack Are Startled It be the evening of the day after the closing of the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows have creep out across the Big River .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack be get their evening meal among the brown stalk of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River .
They take turn in search for the rice grain in the mud .
While Mrs. Quack tip up and seem to stand on her head a she search in the mud for rice , Mr. Quack keep watch for possible danger .
Then Mrs. Quack take her turn at keep watch , while Mr. Quack stand on his head and hunt for rice .
It be wonderfully quiet and peaceful .
There be not even a ripple on the Big River .
It be so quiet that they could hear the barking of a dog at a farmhouse a mile away .
They be far enough out from the bank to have nothing to fear from Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote .
So they have nothing to fear from any one save Hooty the Owl .
It be for Hooty that they take turn in watching .
It be just the hour when Hooty like best to hunt .
By and by they hear Booty 's hunt call .
It be far away in the Green Forest , Then Mr. and Mrs. Quack felt easier , and they talk in low , contented voice .
They felt that for a while at least there be nothing to fear .
Suddenly a little splash out in the Big River catch Mr. Quack 's quick ear .
As Mrs. Quack bring her head up out of the water , Mr. Quack warn her to keep quiet .
Noiselessly they swim among the brown stalk until they could see out across the Big River .
There be another little splash out there in the middle .
It be n't the splash make by a fish ; it be a splash make by something much big than any fish .
Presently they make out a silver line move towards them from the Black Shadows .
They know exactly what it mean .
It mean that some one be out there in the Big River move towards them .
Could it be a boat contain a hunter ?
With their neck stretch high , Mr. and Mrs. Quack watch .
They be ready to take to their strong wing the instant they discover danger .
But they do not want to fly until they be sure that it WAS danger approach .
They be startle , very much startle .
Presently they make out what look like the branch of a tree move over the water towards them .
That be queer , very queer .
Mr. Quack say so .
Mrs. Quack say so .
Both be grow more and more suspicious .
They could n't understand it at all , and it be always best to be suspicious of thing you can not understand .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack half lift their wing to fly .
CHAPTER XXX : The Mystery Is Solved It be very mysterious .
Yes , Sir , it be very mysterious .
Mr. Quack think so .
Mrs. Quack think so .
There , out in the Big River , in the midst of the Black Shadows , be something which look like the branch of a tree .
But instead of move down the river , a the branch of a tree would if it be float , this be come straight across the river a if it be swim .
But how could the branch of a tree swim ?
That be too much for Mr. Quack .
It be too much for Mrs. Quack .
So they sit perfectly still among the brown stalk of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River , and not for a second do they take their eye from that strange thing move towards them .
They be ready to spring into the air and trust to their swift wing the instant they should detect danger .
But they do not want to fly unless they have to .
Besides , they be curious .
They be very curious indeed .
They want to find out what that mysterious thing move through the water towards them be .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack watch that thing that look like a swimming branch draw nearer and nearer , and the nearer it draw the more they be puzzle , and the more curious they felt .
If it have be the pond of Paddy the Beaver instead of the Big River , they would have think it be Paddy swim with a branch for his winter food pile .
But Paddy the Beaver be way back in his own pond , deep in the Green Forest , and they know it .
So this thing become more and more of a mystery .
The nearer it come , the more nervous and anxious they grow , and at the same time the great become their curiosity .
At last Mr. Quack felt that not even to gratify his curiosity would it be safe to wait long .
He prepare to spring into the air , know that Mrs. Quack would follow him .
It be just then that a funny little sound reach him .
It be half snort , half cough , a if some one have sniff some water up his nose .
There be something familiar about that sound .
Mr. Quack decide to wait a few minute longer .
`` I 'll wait , '' think Mr. Quack , `` until that thing , whatever it be , come out of those Black Shadows into the moonlight .
Somehow I have a feeling that we be in no danger . ''
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack wait and watch .
In a few minute the thing that look like the branch of a tree come out of the Black Shadows into the moonlight , and then the mystery be solve .
It be a mystery no longer .
They saw that they have mistake the antler of Lightfoot the Deer for the branch of a tree .
Lightfoot be swim across the Big River on his way back to his home in the Green Forest .
At once Mr. and Mrs. Quack swim out to meet him and to tell him how glad they be that he be alive and safe .
CHAPTER XXXI : A Surprising Discovery Probably there be no happier Thanksgiving in all the Great World than the Thanksgiving of Lightfoot the Deer , when the dreadful hunt season end and he be once more back in his beloved Green Forest with nothing to fear .
All his neighbor call on him to tell him how glad they be that he have escape and how the Green Forest would not have be the same if he have not return .
So Lightfoot roam about without fear and be happy .
It seem to him that he could not be happy .
There be plenty to eat and that bless feeling of nothing to fear .
What more could any one ask ?
He begin to grow sleek and fat and handsomer than ever .
The day be grow colder and the frosty air make him feel good .
Just at dusk one evening he go down to his favorite drinking place at the Laughing Brook .
As he put down his head to drink he saw something which so surprise him that he quite forget he be thirsty .
What do you think it be he saw ?
It be a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , it be a footprint .
For a long time Lightfoot stand star at that footprint .
In his great , soft eye be a look of wonder and surprise .
You see , that footprint be exactly like one of his own , only small .
To Lightfoot it be a very wonderful footprint .
He be quite sure that never have he see such a dainty footprint .
He forget to drink .
Instead , he begin to search for other footprint , and presently he find them .
Each be as dainty a that first one .
Who could have make them ?
That be what Lightfoot want to know and what he mean to find out .
It be clear to him that there be a stranger in the Green Forest , and somehow he do n't resent it in the least .
In fact , he be glad .
He could n't have tell why , but it be true .
Lightfoot put his nose to the footprint and sniffed of them .
Even have he not know by look at those print that they have be make by a stranger , his nose would have tell him this .
A great longing to find the maker of those footprint take possession of him .
He lift his handsome head and listen for some slight sound which might show that the stranger be near .
With his delicate nostril he test the wandering little Night Breezes for a stray whiff of scent to tell him which way to go .
But there be no sound and the wandering little Night Breezes tell him nothing .
Lightfoot follow the dainty footprints up the bank .
There they disappear , for the ground be hard .
Lightfoot pause , undecided which way to go .
CHAPTER XXXII : Lightfoot Sees The Stranger Lightfoot the Deer be unhappy .
It be a strange unhappiness , an unhappiness such a he have never know before .
You see , he have discover that there be a stranger in the Green Forest , a stranger of his own kind , another Deer .
He know it by dainty footprint in the mud along the Laughing Brook and on the edge of the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
He know it by other sign which he run across every now and then .
But search a he would , he be unable to find that newcomer .
He have search everywhere but always he be just too late .
The stranger have be and go .
Now there be no anger in Lightfoot 's desire to find that stranger .
Instead , there be a great longing .
For the first time in his life Lightfoot felt lonely .
So he hunt and hunt and be unhappy .
He lose his appetite .
He sleep little .
He roam about uneasily , look , listen , test every Merry Little Breeze , but all in vain .
Then , one never-to-be-forgotten night , a he drink at the Laughing Brook , a strange feeling sweep over him .
It be the feeling of be watch .
Lightfoot lift his beautiful head and a slight movement catch his quick eye and draw it to a thicket not far away .
The silvery light of gentle Mistress Moon fell full on that thicket , and thrust out from it be the most beautiful head in all the Great World .
At least , that be the way it seem to Lightfoot , though to tell the truth it be not as beautiful a his own , for it be uncrowned by antler .
For a long minute Lightfoot stand gazing .
A pair of wonderful , great , soft eye gaze back at him .
Then that beautiful head disappear .
With a mighty bound , Lightfoot clear the Laughing Brook and rush over to the thicket in which that beautiful head have disappear .
He plunge in , but there be no one there .
Frantically he search , but that thicket be empty .
Then he stand still and listen .
Not a sound reach him .
It be as still a if there be no other live thing in all the Green Forest .
The beautiful stranger have slip away as silently a a shadow .
All the rest of that night Lightfoot search through the Green Forest but his search be in vain .
The longing to find that beautiful stranger have become so great that he fairly ache with it .
It seem to him that until he find her he could know no happiness .
CHAPTER XXXIII : A Different Game Of Hide And Seek Once more Lightfoot the Deer be play hide and seek in the Green Forest .
But it be a very different game from the one he have play just a short time before .
You remember that then it have be for his life that he have play , and he be the one who have do all the hiding .
Now , he be `` it '' , and some one else be do the hiding .
Instead of the dreadful fear which have fill him in that other game , he be now fill with longing , -- long to find and make friend with the beautiful stranger of whom he have just once catch a glimpse , but of whom every day he find track .
At time Lightfoot would lose his temper .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot would lose his temper .
That be a foolish thing to do , but it seem to him that he just could n't help it .
He would stamp his foot angrily and thrash the bush with his great spread antler a if they be an enemy with whom he be fight .
More than once when he do this a pair of great , soft , gentle eye be watch him , though he do n't know it .
If he could have see them and the look of admiration in them , he would have be more eager than ever to find that beautiful stranger .
At other time Lightfoot would steal about through the Green Forest as noiselessly a a shadow .
He would peer into thicket and behind tangle of fall tree and brush pile , hop to surprise the one he seek .
He would be very , very patient .
Perhaps he would come to the thicket which he know from the sign the stranger have leave only a few moment before .
Then his patience would vanish in impatience , and he would dash ahead , eager to catch up with the shy stranger .
But always it be in vain .
He have think himself very clever but this stranger be prove herself more clever .
Of course it be n't long before all the little people in the Green Forest know what be go on .
They know all about that game of hide and seek just a they have know all about that other game of hide and seek with the hunter .
But now , instead of try to help Lightfoot a they do then , they give him no help at all .
The fact be , they be enjoy that game .
Mischievous Sammy Jay even go so far a to warn the stranger several time when Lightfoot be approach .
Of course Lightfoot know when Sammy do this , and each time he lose his temper .
For the time be , he quite forget all that Sammy have do for him when he be the one that be be hunt .
Once Lightfoot almost run smack into Buster Bear and be so provoke by his own carelessness that instead of bound away he actually threaten to fight Buster .
But when Buster grin good-naturedly at him , Lightfoot think good of it and bound away to continue his search .
Then there be time when Lightfoot would sulk and would declare over and over to himself , `` I do n't care anything about that stranger .
I wo n't spend another minute look for her . ''
And then within five minute he would be watch , listen and seek some sign that she be still in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXIV : A Startling New Footprint The game of hide and seek between Lightfoot the Deer and the beautiful stranger whose dainty footprint have first start Lightfoot to seek her have be go on for several day and night when Lightfoot find something which give him a shock .
He have steal very softly clown to the Laughing Brook , hop to surprise the beautiful stranger drinking there .
She be n't to be see .
Lightfoot wonder if she have be there , so look in the mud at the edge of the Laughing Brook to see if there be any fresh print of those dainty foot .
Almost at once he discover fresh footprint .
They be not the print he be look for .
No , Sir , they be not the dainty print he have learn to know so well .
They be print very near the size of his own big one , and they have be make only a short time before .
The finding of those print be a dreadful shock to Lightfoot .
He understand instantly what they mean .
They mean that a second stranger have come into the Green Forest , one who have antler like his own .
Jealousy take possession of Lightfoot the Deer ; jealousy that fill his heart with rage .
`` He have come here to seek that beautiful stranger I have be hunt for , '' think Lightfoot .
`` He have come here to try to steal her away from me .
He have no right here in my Green Forest .
He belong back up on the Great Mountain from which he must have come , for there be no other place he could have come from .
That be where that beautiful stranger must have come from , too .
I want her to stay , but I must drive this fellow out .
I 'll make him fight .
That 's what I 'll do ; I 'll make him fight !
I 'm not afraid of him , but I 'll make him fear me . ''
Lightfoot stamp his foot and with his great antler thrash the bush a if he felt that they be the enemy he seek .
Could you have look into his great eye then , you would have find nothing soft and beautiful about them .
They become almost red with anger .
Lightfoot quiver all over with rage .
The hair on the back of his neck stand up .
Lightfoot the Deer look anything but gentle .
After he have vent his spite for a few minute on the harmless , helpless bush , he throw his head high in the air and whistle angrily .
Then he leap over the Laughing Brook and once more begin to search through the Green Forest .
But this time it be not for the beautiful stranger with the dainty foot .
He have no time to think of her now .
He must first find this newcomer and he mean to waste no time in do it .
CHAPTER XXXV : Lightfoot Is Reckless In his search for the new stranger who have come to the Green Forest , Lightfoot the Deer be wholly reckless .
He no longer steal like a gray shadow from thicket to thicket a he have do when search for the beautiful stranger with the dainty foot .
He bound along , careless of how much noise he make .
From time to time he would stop to whistle a challenge and to clash his horn against the tree and stamp the ground with his foot .
After such exhibition of anger he would pause to listen , hop to hear some sound which would tell him where the stranger be .
Now and then he find the stranger 's track , and from them he know that this stranger be do : just what he have be do , seek to find the beautiful newcomer with the dainty foot .
Each time he find these sign Lightfoot 's rage increase .
Of course it do n't take Sammy Jay long to discover what be go on .
There be little that escape those sharp eye of Sammy Jay .
As you know , he have early discover the game of hide and seek Lightfoot have be play with the beautiful young visitor who have come down to the Green Forest from the Great Mountain .
Then , by chance , Sammy have visit the Laughing Brook just a the big stranger have come down there to drink .
For once Sammy have keep his tongue still .
`` There be go to be excitement here when Lightfoot discover this fellow , '' think Sammy .
`` If they ever meet , and I have a feeling that they will , there be go to be a fight worth see .
I must pass the word around . ''
So Sammy Jay hunt up his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and tell him what he have discover .
Then he hunt up Bobby Coon and tell him .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum sit in the doorway of his hollow tree and tell him .
He discover Jumper the Hare sit under a little hemlock-tree and tell him .
Then he fly over to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Peter Rabbit .
Of course he tell Drummer the Woodpecker , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and Yank Yank the Nuthatch , who be over in the Old Orchard , and they at once hurry to the Green Forest , for they could n't think of miss anything so exciting a would be the meeting between Lightfoot and the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
Sammy do n't forget to tell Paddy the Beaver , but it be no news to Paddy .
Paddy have see the big stranger on the edge of his pond early the night before .
Of course , Lightfoot know nothing about all this .
His one thought be to find that big stranger and drive him from the Green Forest , and so he continue his search tirelessly .
CHAPTER XXXVI : Sammy Jay Takes A Hand Sammy Jay be bubble over with excitement a he fly about through the Green Forest , follow Lightfoot the Deer .
He be so excited he want to scream .
But he do n't .
He keep his tongue still .
You see , he do n't want Lightfoot to know that he be be follow .
Under that point cap of Sammy Jay 's be quick wit .
It do n't take him long to discover that the big stranger whom Lightfoot be seek be do his best to keep out of Lightfoot 's way and that he be have no difficulty in do so because of the reckless way in which Lightfoot be search for him .
Lightfoot make so much noise that it be quite easy to know just where he be and so keep out of his sight .
`` That stranger be nearly as big a Lightfoot , but it be very plain that he do n't want to fight , '' think Sammy .
`` He must be a coward . ''
Now the truth be , the stranger be not a coward .
He be ready and willing to fight if he have to , but if he could avoid fight he mean to .
You see , big a he be , he be n't quite so big a Lightfoot , and he know it .
He have see Lightfoot 's big footprint , and from their size he know that Lightfoot must be big and heavy than he .
Then , too , he know that he really have no right to be there in the Green Forest .
That be Lightfoot 's home and so he be an intruder .
He know that Lightfoot would feel this way about it and that this would make him fight all the harder .
So the big stranger want to avoid a fight if possible .
But he want still more to find that beautiful young visitor with the dainty foot for whom Lightfoot have be look .
He want to find her just a Lightfoot want to find her , and he hop that if he do find her , he could take her away with him back to the Great Mountain .
If he have to , he would fight for her , but until he have to he would keep out of the fight .
So he dodge Lightfoot and at the same time look for the beautiful stranger .
All this Sammy Jay guess , and after a while he grow tire of follow Lightfoot for nothing .
`` I 'll have to take a hand in this thing myself , '' mutter Sammy .
`` At this rate , Lightfoot never will find that big stranger ! ''
So Sammy stop follow Lightfoot and begin to search through the Green Forest for the big stranger .
It do n't take very long to find him .
He be over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As soon a he saw him , Sammy begin to scream at the top of his lung .
At once he hear the sound of snap twig at the top of a little ridge back of Paddy 's pond and know that Lightfoot have hear and understood .
CHAPTER XXXVII : The Great Fight Down from the top of the ridge back of the pond of Paddy the Beaver plunge Lightfoot the Deer , his eye blaze with rage .
He have understand the screaming of Sammy Jay .
He know that somewhere down there be the big stranger he have be look for .
The big stranger have understand Sammy 's scream quite as well a Lightfoot .
He know that to run away now would be to prove himself a coward and forever disgrace himself in the eye of Miss Daintyfoot , for that be the name of the beautiful stranger he have be seek .
He MUST fight .
There be no way out of it , he MUST fight .
The hair on the back of his neck stand up with anger just as do the hair on the neck of Lightfoot .
His eye also blaze .
He bound out into a little open place by the pond of Paddy the Beaver and there he wait .
Meanwhile Sammy Jay be fly about in the great excitement , scream at the top of his lung , `` A fight !
A fight !
A fight ! ''
Blacky the Crow , over in another part of the Green Forest , hear him and take up the cry and at once hurry over to Paddy 's pond .
Everybody who be near enough hurry there .
Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum climb tree from which they could see and at the same time be safe .
Billy Mink hurry to a safe place on the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Paddy himself climb up on the roof of his house out in the pond .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who happen to be not far away , hurry over where they could peep out from under some young hemlock-trees .
Buster Bear shuffle down the hill and watch from the other side of the pond .
Reddy and Granny Fox be both there .
For what seem like the long time , but which be for only a minute , Lightfoot and the big stranger stand still , glare at each other .
Then , snort with rage , they lower their head and plunge together .
Their antler clash with a noise that ring through the Green Forest , and both fell to their knee .
There they push and struggle .
Then they separate and back away , to repeat the movement over again .
It be a terrible fight .
Everybody say so .
If they have not know before , everybody know now what those great antler be for .
Once the big stranger manage to reach Lightfoot 's right shoulder with one of the sharp point of his antler and make a long tear in Lightfoot 's gray coat .
It only make Lightfoot fight harder .
Sometimes they would rear up and strike with their sharp hoof .
Back and forth they plunge , and the ground be tear up by their foot .
Both be get out of breath , and from time to time they have to stop for a moment 's rest .
Then they would come together again more fiercely than ever .
Never have such a fight be see in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXVIII : An Unseen Watcher As Lightfoot the Deer and the big stranger from the Great Mountain fought in the little opening near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , neither know or care who saw them .
Each be fill fully with rage and determine to drive the other from the Green Forest .
Each be fight for the right to win the love of Miss Daintyfoot .
Neither of them know that Miss Daintyfoot herself be watch them .
But she be .
She have hear the clash of their great antler a they have come together the first time , and she have know exactly what it mean .
Timidly she have steal forward to a thicket where , safely hidden , she could watch that terrible fight .
She know that they be fight for her .
Of course .
She know it just a she have know how both have be hunt for her .
What she do n't know for some time be which one she want to win that fight .
Both Lightfoot and the big stranger be handsome .
Yes , indeed , they be very handsome .
Lightfoot be just a little bit the big and it seem to her just a little bit the handsomer .
She almost want him to win .
Then , when she saw how bravely the big stranger be fight and how well he be hold his own , even though he be a little small than Lightfoot , she almost hop he would win .
That great fight last a long time .
To pretty Miss Daintyfoot it seem that it never would end .
But after a while Lightfoot 's great size and strength begin to tell .
Little by little the big stranger be force back towards the edge of the open place .
Now he would be throw to his knee when Lightfoot be n't .
As Lightfoot saw this , he seem to gain new strength .
At last he catch the stranger in such a way that he throw him over .
While the stranger struggle to get to his foot again , Lightfoot 's sharp antler make long tear in his gray coat .
The stranger be beat and he know it .
The instant he succeed in get to his foot he turn tail and plunge for the shelter of the Green Forest .
With a snort of triumph , Lightfoot plunge after him .
But now that he be beat , fear take possession of the stranger .
All desire to fight left him .
His one thought be to get away , and fear give him speed .
Straight back towards the Great Mountain from which he have come the stranger head .
Lightfoot follow only a short distance .
He know that that stranger be go for good and would not come back .
Then Lightfoot turn back to the open place where they have fight .
There he throw up his beautiful head , crown by it great antler , and whistle a challenge to all the Green Forest .
As she look at him , Miss Daintyfoot know that she have want him to win .
She know that there simply could n't be anybody else so handsome and strong and brave in all the Great World .
CHAPTER XXXIX : Lightfoot Discovers Love Wonderfully handsome be Lightfoot the Deer a he stand in the little opening by the pond of Paddy the Beaver , his head throw back proudly , a he receive the congratulation of his neighbor of the Green Forest who have see him win the great fight with the big stranger who have come down from the Great Mountain .
To beautiful Miss Daintyfoot , peep out from the thicket where she have hide to watch the great fight , Lightfoot be the most wonderful person in all the Great World .
She adore him , which mean that she love him just as much a it be possible for her to love .
But Lightfoot do n't know this .
In fact , he do n't know that Miss Daintyfoot be there .
His one thought have be to drive out of the Green Forest the big stranger who have come down from the Great Mountain .
He have be jealous of that big stranger , though he have n't know that he be jealous .
The real cause of his anger and desire to fight had be the fear that the big stranger would find Miss Daintyfoot and take her away .
Of course this be nothing but jealousy .
Now that the great fight be over , and he know that the big stranger be hurry back to the Great Mountain , all Lightfoot 's anger melt away .
In it place be a great longing to find Miss Daintyfoot .
His great eye become once more soft and beautiful .
In them be a look of wistfulness .
Lightfoot walk down to the edge of the water and drank , for he be very , very thirsty .
Then he turn , intend to take up once more his search for beautiful Miss Daintyfoot .
When he turn he face the thicket in which Miss Daintyfoot be hide .
His keen eye catch a little movement of the branch .
A beautiful head be slowly thrust out , and Lightfoot gaze again into a pair of soft eye which he be sure be the most beautiful eye in all the Great World .
He wonder if she would disappear and run away a she have the last time he saw her .
He take a step or two forward .
The beautiful head be withdraw .
Lightfoot 's heart sank .
Then he bound forward into that thicket .
He more than half expect to find no one there , but when he enter that thicket he receive the most wonderful surprise in all his life .
There stand Miss Daintyfoot , timid , bashful , but with a look in her eye which Lightfoot could not mistake .
In that instant Light-foot understand the meaning of that longing which have keep him hunt for her and of the rage which have fill him when he have discover the presence of the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
It be love .
Lightfoot know that he love Miss Daintyfoot and , look into her soft , gentle eye , he know that Miss Daintyfoot love him .
CHAPTER XL : Happy Days In The Green Forest These be happy day in the Green Forest .
At least , they be happy for Lightfoot the Deer .
They be the happy day he have ever know .
You see , he have win beautiful , slender , young Miss Daintyfoot , and now she be no long Miss Daintyfoot but Mrs. Lightfoot .
Lightfoot be sure that there be no one anywhere so beautiful a she , and Mrs. Lightfoot know that there be no one so handsome and brave a he .
Wherever Lightfoot go , Mrs. Lightfoot go .
He show her all his favorite hiding-places .
He lead her to his favorite eating-places .
She do not tell him that she be already acquaint with every one of them , that she know the Green Forest quite as well a he do .
If he have stop to think how day after day she have manage to keep out of his sight while he hunt for her , he would have realize that there be little he could show her which she do not already know .
But he do n't stop to think and proudly lead her from place to place .
And Mrs. Lightfoot wisely express delight with all she saw quite a if it be all new .
Of course , all the little people of the Green Forest hurry to pay their respect to Mrs. Lightfoot and to tell Lightfoot how glad they felt for him .
And they really do feel glad .
You see , they all love Lightfoot and they know that now he would be happy than ever , and that there would be no danger of his leave the Green Forest because of loneliness .
The Green Forest would not be the same at all without Lightfoot the Deer .
Lightfoot tell Mrs. Lightfoot all about the terrible day of the hunting season and how glad he be that she have not be in the Green Forest then .
He tell her how the hunter with terrible gun have give him no rest and how he have have to swim the Big River to get away from the hound .
`` I know , '' reply Mrs. Lightfoot softly .
`` I know all about it .
You see , there be hunter on the Great Mountain .
In fact , that be how I happen to come down to the Green Forest .
They hunt me so up there that I do not dare stay , and I come down here think that there might be few hunter .
I would n't have believe that I could ever be thankful to hunter for anything , but I be , truly I be . ''
There be a puzzled look on Lightfoot 's face .
`` What for ? ''
he demand .
`` I ca n't imagine anybody be thankful to hunter for anything . ''
`` Oh , you stupid , '' cry Mrs. Lightfoot .
`` Do n't you see that if I have n't be drive down from the Great Mountain , I never would have find YOU ? ''
`` You mean , I never would have find YOU , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I guess I owe these hunter more than you do .
I owe them the great happiness I have ever know , but I never would have think of it myself .
Is n't it queer how thing which seem the very bad possible sometimes turn out to be the very best possible ? ''
Blacky the Crow be one of Lightfoot 's friend , but sometimes even friend be envious .
It be so with Blacky .
He insist that he be quite as important in the Green Forest a be Lightfoot and that his doings be quite a interesting .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind's_Children.txt.out
I DANNY MEADOW MOUSE LEARNS WHY HIS TAIL IS SHORT Danny Meadow Mouse sit in his doorway and look down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows .
Way , way over near the Smiling Pool he could see Old Mother West Wind 's Children , the Merry Little Breezes , at play .
Sammy Jay be sit on a fence post .
He pretend to be take a sun bath , but really he be plan mischief .
You never see Sammy Jay that he be n't in mischief or plan it .
Reddy Fox have trot past an hour before in a great hurry .
Up on the hill Danny Meadow Mouse could just see Jimmy Skunk pulling over every old stick and stone he could find , no matter whose house it might be , and excuse himself because he be hungry and be look for beetle .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be play at hide and seek behind some fleecy white cloud .
All the bird be sing and singing , and the world be happy -- all but Danny Meadow Mouse .
No , Danny Meadow Mouse be not happy .
Indeed , he be very far from happy , and all because his tail be short .
By and by up come old Mr. Toad .
It be a warm day and Mr. Toad be very hot and very , very thirsty .
He stop to rest beside the house of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Good morning , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' say old Mr. Toad , `` it 's a fine morning . ''
`` Morning , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , grumpily .
`` I hope your health be good this morning , '' continue old Mr. Toad , just a if he have n't notice how short and cross Danny Meadow Mouse have answer .
Now old Mr. Toad be very ugly to look upon , but the ugliness be all in his look .
He have the sunniest of heart and always he be look for a chance to help someone .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse , '' say old Mr. Toad , `` you make me think of your grandfather a thousand time remove .
You do indeed .
You look just a he do when he lose the half of his tail and realize that he never , never could get it back again . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse sit up suddenly .
`` What be you talk about , old Mr. Toad ?
What be you talk about ? ''
he ask .
`` Did my grandfather a thousand time remove lose the half of his tail , and be it short then than mine be now ?
Was it , old Mr. Toad ?
And how do he come to lose the half of it ? ''
Old Mr. Toad laugh a funny silent laugh .
`` It 's a long story , '' say old Mr. Toad , `` and I 'm afraid I ca n't tell it .
Go down to the Smiling Pool and ask Great-Grandfather Frog , who be my first cousin , how it happen your grandfather a thousand time remove lose the half of his tail .
But before you go catch three fat , foolish , green fly and take them with you a a present to Grandfather Frog . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse could hardly wait for old Mr. Toad to stop speaking .
In fact , he be in such a hurry that he almost forget his manner .
Not quite , however , for he shout `` Thank you , Mr. Toad , thank you ! ''
over his shoulder a he rush off down the Lone Little Path .
You see his short tail have always be a matter of mortification to Danny Meadow Mouse .
All his cousin in the Mouse family and the Rat family have long , smooth , taper tail , and they have always be a source of envy to Danny Meadow Mouse .
He have felt his queer short tail to be a sort of disgrace .
So when he would meet one of his cousin dance down the Lone Little Path , with his long , slim , taper tail behind him , Danny Meadow Mouse would slip out of sight under the long grass , he be so ashamed of his own little tail .
It look so mean and small !
He have wonder and wonder if the Meadow Mice have always have short tail .
He use to ask everyone who come his way if they have ever see a Meadow Mouse with a long tail , but he have never find any one who have .
`` Perhaps , '' think Danny Meadow Mouse a he hurry down the Lone Little Path , `` perhaps Grandfather Frog , who be very wise , will know why my tail be short . ''
So he hurry this way and he hurry that way over the Green Meadows in search of fat , foolish , green fly .
And when he have catch three , he catch one more for good measure .
Then he start for the Smiling Pool as fast a his short leg would take him .
When finally he reach the edge of the Smiling Pool he be quite out of breath .
There sat Great-Grandfather Frog on his big , green lily pad .
He be blink his great goggle eye at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse in a very small voice , for you know he be quite out of breath with running , `` Oh , Grandfather Frog , I 've bring you four fat , foolish , green fly . ''
Grandfather Frog put a hand behind an ear and listen .
`` Did I hear someone say ` foolish , green fly ? ' ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` Yes , Grandfather Frog , here they be , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , still in a very small voice .
Then he give Grandfather Frog the four fat , foolish , green fly .
`` What be it that you want me to do for you , Danny Meadow Mouse ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog a he smack his lip , for he know that Danny Meadow Mouse must want something to bring him four fat , foolish , green fly .
`` If you please , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , very politely , `` if you please , Grandfather Frog , old Mr. Toad tell me that you could tell me how Grandfather Meadow Mouse a thousand time remove lost half of his tail .
Will you , Grandfather Frog -- will you ? ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` My cousin , Mr. Toad , talk too much . ''
But he settle himself comfortably on the big lily pad , and this be what he tell Danny Meadow Mouse : `` Once upon a time , when the world be young , Mr. Meadow Mouse , your grandfather a thousand time remove , be a very fine gentleman .
He take a great deal of pride in his appearance , do Mr. Meadow Mouse , and they use to say on the Green Meadows that he spend an hour , a full hour , every day comb his whisker and brush his coat .
`` Anyway , he be very fine to look upon , be Mr. Meadow Mouse , and not the least attractive thing about him be his beautiful , long , slim tail , of which he be very proud .
`` Now about this time there be a great deal of trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , for some one be steal -- yes , steal !
Mr. Rabbit complain first .
To be sure , Mr. Rabbit be lazy and his cabbage patch have grow little more than weed while he have be mind other folk ' affair rather than his own , but , then , that be no reason why he should lose half of the little which he do raise .
And that be just what he say have happen .
`` No one really believe what Mr. Rabbit say , for he have such a bad name for tell thing which be not so that when he do tell the truth no one could be quite sure of it .
`` So no one pay much heed to what Mr. Rabbit say until Happy Jack Squirrel one day go to his snug little hollow in the big chestnut tree where he store his nut and discover half have be steal .
Then Striped Chipmunk lose the great part of his winter store of corn .
A fat trout be steal from Billy Mink .
`` It be a terrible time , for every one suspect every one else , and no one on the Green Meadows be happy .
`` One even Mr. Meadow Mouse go for a stroll along the Crooked Little Path up the hill .
It be dark , very dark indeed .
But just a he pass Striped Chipmunk 's granary , the place where he store his supply of corn and acorn for the winter , Mr. Meadow Mouse meet his cousin , Mr. Wharf Rat .
Now Mr. Wharf Rat be very big and strong and Mr. Meadow Mouse have for a long time look up to and admire him . ''
` Good evening , Cousin Meadow Mouse , ' say Mr. Wharf Rat , swing a bag down from his shoulder .
` Will you do a favor for me ? '
`` Now Mr. Meadow Mouse felt very much flatter , and a he be a very obliging fellow anyway , he promptly say he would . ''
` All right , ' say Mr. Wharf Rat .
` I 'm go to get you to tote this bag down the Crooked Little Path to the hollow chestnut tree .
I 've get an errand back on top of the hill . '
`` So Mr. Meadow Mouse pick up the bag , which be very heavy , and swing it over his shoulder .
Then he start down the Crooked Little Path .
Half way down he meet Striped Chipmunk . ''
` Good evening , Mr. Meadow Mouse , ' say Striped Chipmunk .
` What be you tot in the bag across your shoulder ? '
`` Now , of course , Mr. Meadow Mouse do n't know what be in the bag and he do n't like to admit that he be work for another , for he be very proud , be Mr. Meadow Mouse .
`` So he say : ` Just a planting of potato I beg from Jimmy Skunk , just a planting of potato , Striped Chipmunk . '
`` Now no one have ever suspect Mr. Meadow Mouse of steal -- no indeed !
Striped Chipmunk would have go his way and think no more about it , have it not happen that there be a hole in the bag and from it something drop at his foot .
Striped Chipmunk pick it up and it be n't a potato .
It be a fat acorn .
Striped Chipmunk say nothing but slip it into his pocket . ''
` Good night , ' say Mr. Meadow Mouse , once more shoulder the bag . ''
` Good night , ' say Striped Chipmunk .
`` No sooner have Mr. Meadow Mouse disappear in the darkness down the Crooked Little Path than Striped Chipmunk hurry to his granary .
Some one have be there and steal all his acorn !
`` Then Striped Chipmunk run to the house of his cousin , Happy Jack Squirrel , and tell him how the acorn have be steal from his granary and how he have meet Mr. Meadow Mouse with a bag over his shoulder and how Mr. Meadow Mouse have say that he be tot home a planting of potato he have beg from Jimmy Skunk .
` And this , ' say Striped Chipmunk , hold out the fat acorn , ` be what fell out of the bag . '
`` Then Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel hurry over to Jimmy Skunk 's house , and , just a they expect , they find that Mr. Meadow Mouse have not beg a planting of potato of Jimmy Skunk .
`` So Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk hurry over to Mr. Rabbit 's and tell him all about Mr. Meadow Mouse and the bag of potato that drop acorn .
Mr. Rabbit look very grave , very grave indeed .
Then Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk and Mr. Rabbit start to tell Mr. Coon , who be cousin to old King Bear .
`` On the way they meet Hooty the Owl , and because he could fly softly and quickly , they send Hooty the Owl to tell all the meadow people who be awake to come to the hollow chestnut tree .
So Hooty the Owl fly away to tell all the little meadow people who be awake to meet at the hollow chestnut tree .
`` When they reach the hollow chestnut tree whom should they find there but Mr. Meadow Mouse fast asleep beside the bag he have bring for Mr. Wharf Rat , who have wisely stay away .
`` Very softly Striped Chipmunk steal up and open the bag .
Out fell his store of fat acorn .
Then they wake Mr. Meadow Mouse and march him off to old Mother Nature , where they charge him with be a thief .
`` Old Mother Nature listen to all they have to say .
She saw the bag of acorn and she hear how Mr. Meadow Mouse have say that he have a planting of potato .
Then she ask him if he have steal the acorn .
Yes , Sir , she ask him right out if he have steal the acorn .
`` Of course Mr. Meadow Mouse say that he have not steal the acorn . ''
` Then where do you get the bag of acorn ? '
ask old Mother Nature .
`` When she ask this , Mr. Wharf Rat , who be sit in the crowd of meadow people , get up and softly tiptoe away when he think no one be look .
But old Mother Nature saw him .
You ca n't fool old Mother Nature .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
`` Mr. Meadow Mouse do n't know what to say .
He know now that Mr. Wharf Rat must be the thief , but Mr. Wharf Rat be his cousin , and he have always look up to him a a very fine gentleman .
He could n't tell the world that Mr. Wharf Rat be a thief .
So Mr. Meadow Mouse say nothing .
`` Three time old Mother Nature ask Mr. Meadow Mouse where he get the bag of acorn , and each time Mr. Meadow Mouse say nothing . ''
` Mr. Meadow Mouse , ' say old Mother Nature , and her voice be very stern , ' I know that you do not steal the acorn of Striped Chipmunk .
I know that you do not even guess that there be steal acorn in that bag .
Everyone else think that you be the thief who cause so much trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
But I know who the real thief be and he be steal away as fast a he can go down the Lone Little Path this very minute . '
`` All of the little meadow people and forest folk turn to look down the Lone Little Path , but it be so dark none could see , none but Hooty the Owl , whose eye be make to see in the dark . '' '
I see him ! '
cry Hooty the Owl .
` It 's Mr. Wharf Rat ! ' ''
` Yes , ' say old Mother Nature , ` it 's Mr. Wharf Rat -- he be the thief .
And this shall be his punishment : Always hereafter he will be drive out wherever he be find .
He shall no longer live in the Green Meadows or the Green Forest .
Everyone will turn their back upon him .
He will live on what others throw away .
He will live in filth and there will be no one to say a good word for him .
He will become an outcast instead of a fine gentleman . ' ''
` And you , Mr. Meadow Mouse , in order that you may remember always to avoid bad company , and that while it be a splendid thing to be loyal to your friend and not to tell tale , it be also a very , very wrong thing to shield those who have do wrong when by so do you simply help them to keep on do wrong -- you shall no longer have the splendid long tail of which you be so proud , but it shall be short and stubby . '
`` Even while old Mother Nature be speak , Mr. Meadow Mouse felt his tail grow shorter and shorter , and when she have finish he have just a little mean stub of a tail .
`` Of course he felt terribly .
And while Striped Chipmunk hurry to tell him how sorry he felt , and while all the other little meadow people also hurry to tell him how sorry they felt , he could not be comfort .
So he slip away as quickly a he could , and because he be so ashamed he creep along underneath the long grass that no one should see his short tail .
And ever since that long ago time when the world be young , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , `` the Meadow Mice have have short tail and have always scurry along under cover of the long grass where no one will see them .
And the Wharf Rats have never again live in the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest , but have live on filth and garbage around the home of men , with every man 's hand against them . ''
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , very soberly .
`` Now I understand why my tail be short and I shall not forget . ''
`` But it be n't your fault at all , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , who have be listen , `` and we love you just as much a if your tail be long ! ''
Then they play tag with him all the way up the Lone Little Path to his house , till Danny Meadow Mouse quite forget that he have wish that his tail be long .
II WHY REDDY FOX HAS NO FRIENDS The Green Meadows lay peaceful and still .
Mother Moon , sail high overhead , look down upon them and smile and smile , flood them with her silvery light .
All day long the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have romp there among the aster and goldenrod .
They have play tag through the cat rush around the Smiling Pool .
For very mischief they have rub the fur of the Field Mice baby the wrong way and have blow a fat green fly right out of Grandfather Frog 's mouth just a his lip come together with a smack .
Now they be safely tuck in bed behind the Purple Hills , and so they miss the midnight feast at the foot of the Lone Pine .
But Reddy Fox be there .
You can always count on Reddy Fox to be about when mischief or good time be afoot , especially after Mr. Sun have pull his nightcap on .
Jimmy Skunk be there .
If there be any mischief Reddy Fox do not think of Jimmy Skunk will be sure to discover it .
Billy Mink be there .
Yes indeed , Billy Mink be there !
Billy Mink be another mischief maker .
When Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk be play prank or in trouble of any kind you be certain to find Billy Mink close by .
That be , you be certain to find him if you look sharp enough .
But Billy Mink be so slim , he move so quickly , and his wit be so sharp , that he be not see half so often a the others .
With Billy Mink come his cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who be sly and cruel .
No one like Shadow the Weasel .
Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat come .
They be late , for the leg of Little Joe Otter be so short that he be a slow traveler on land , while Jerry Muskrat feel much more at home in the water than on the dry ground .
Of course Peter Rabbit be there .
Without him no party on the Green Meadows would be complete , and Peter like to be abroad at night even well than by day .
With Peter come his cousin , Jumper the Hare , who have come down from the Pine Forest for a visit .
Boomer the Nighthawk and Hooty the Owl complete the party , though Hooty have not be invite and no one know that he be there .
Each be to contribute something to the feast -- the thing that he like best .
Such an array a Mother Moon look down upon !
Reddy Fox have bring a plump , tender chicken , steal from Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Very quietly , like a thin , brown shadow , Billy Mink have slip up to the duck pond and -- ala !
Now Mother Quack have one le in her pretty little flock than when a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , she have count her baby a they tuck their head under their wing .
Little Joe Otter have be fish and he bring a great fat brother of the lamented Tommy Trout , who do n't mind .
Jerry Muskrat bring up from the mud of the river bottom some fine fresh water clam , of which he be very fond .
Jimmy Skunk steal three big egg from the nest of old Gray Goose .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare roll up a great , tender , fresh cabbage .
Boomer the Nighthawk say that he be very sorry , but he be on a diet of insect , which he must swallow one at a time , so to save trouble he have swallow them a he catch them .
