Jims have no idea who live there .
He have ask Aunt Augusta and Aunt Augusta have frown and tell him it do not matter who live there and that he must never , on any account , mention the next house or it occupant to Uncle Walter .
Jims would never have think of mention them to Uncle Walter .
But the prohibition fill him with an unholy and unsubduable curiosity .
He be devour by the desire to find out who the folk in that tabooed house be .
And he long to have the freedom of that garden .
Jims love garden .
There have be a garden at the little house but there be none here -- nothing but an old lawn that have be fine once but be now badly run to seed .
Jims have hear Uncle Walter say that he be go to have it attend to but nothing have be do yet .
And meanwhile here be a beautiful garden over the wall which look a if it should be full of child .
But no child be ever in it -- or anybody else apparently .
And so , in spite of it beauty , it have a lonely look that hurt Jims .
He want his Garden of Spices to be full of laughter .
He picture himself run in it with imaginary playmate -- and there be a mother in it -- or a big sister -- or , at the least , a whole aunt who would let you hug her and would never dream of shut you up in chilly , shadowy , horrible blue room .
`` It seem to me , '' say Jims , flatten his nose against the pane , `` that I must get into that garden or bust . ''
Aunt Augusta would have say icily , `` We do not use such expression , James , '' but Aunt Augusta be not there to hear .
`` I 'm afraid the Very Handsome Cat be n't come to-day , '' sigh Jims .
Then he brighten up ; the Very Handsome Cat be come across the lawn .
He be the only living thing , bar bird and butterfly , that Jims ever saw in the garden .
Jims worship that cat .
He be jet black , with white paw and dickey , and he have a much dignity a ten cat .
Jims ' finger tingle to stroke him .
Jims have never be allow to have even a kitten because Aunt Augusta have a horror of cat .
And you can not stroke gobbler !
The Very Handsome Cat come through the rise garden path on his beautiful paw , amble daintily around the rockery , and sit down in a shady spot under a pine tree , right where Jims could see him , through a gap in the little poplar .
He look straight up at Jims and wink .
At least , Jims always believe and declare he do .
And that wink say , or seem to say , plainly : `` Be a sport .
Come down here and play with me .
A fig for your Aunt Augusta ! ''
A wild , daring , absurd idea flash into Jims ' brain .
Could he ?
He could !
He would !
He know it would be easy .
He have think it all out many time , although until now he have never dream of really do it .
To unhook the window and swing it open , to step out on the pine bough and from it to another that hung over the wall and drop nearly to the ground , to spring from it to the velvet sward under the poplar -- why , it be all the work of a minute .
With a careful , repress whoop Jims run towards the Very Handsome Cat .
The cat rise and retreat in deliberate haste ; Jims run after him .
The cat dodge through the rise path and elude Jims ' eager hand , just keep tantalizingly out of reach .
Jims have forget everything except that he must catch the cat .
He be full of a fearful joy , with an elfin delight run through it .
He have escape from the blue room and it ghost ; he be in his Garden of Spices ; he have get the good of mean old Aunt Augusta .
But he must catch the cat .
The cat run over the lawn and Jims pursue it through the green gloom of the thickly clustering tree .
Beyond them come a pool of sunshine in which the old stone house bask like a huge grey cat itself .
More garden be before it and beyond it , wonderful with blossom .
Under a huge spreading beech tree in the centre of it be a little tea table ; sit by the table reading be a lady in a black dress .
The cat , have lure Jims to where he want him , sit down and begin to lick his paw .
He be quite willing to be catch now ; but Jims have no longer any idea of catch him .
He stand very still , look at the lady .
She do not see him then and Jims could only see her profile , which he think very beautiful .
She have wonderful rope of blue-black hair wound around her head .
She look so sweet that Jims ' heart beat .
Then she lift her head and turn her face and saw him .
Jims felt something of a shock .
She be not pretty after all .
One side of her face be mark by a dreadful red scar .
It quite spoil her good look , which Jims think a great pity ; but nothing could spoil the sweetness of her face or the loveliness of her peculiar soft , grey-blue eye .
Jims could n't remember his mother and have no idea what she look like , but the thought come into his head that he would have like her to have eye like that .
After the first moment Jims do not mind the scar at all .
But perhaps that first moment have reveal itself in his face , for a look of pain come into the lady 's eye and , almost involuntarily it seem , she put her hand up to hide the scar .
Then she pull it away again and sit look at Jims half defiantly , half piteously .
Jims think she must be angry because he have chase her cat .
`` I beg your pardon , '' he say gravely , `` I do n't mean to hurt your cat .
I just want to play with him .
He be such a very handsome cat . ''
`` But where do you come from ? ''
say the lady .
`` It be so long since I saw a child in this garden , '' she add , a if to herself .
Her voice be as sweet a her face .
Jims think he be mistake in think her angry and pluck up heart of grace .
Shyness be no fault of Jims .
`` I come from the house over the wall , '' he say .
`` My name be James Brander Churchill .
Aunt Augusta shut me up in the blue room because I spill my pudding at dinner .
I hate to be shut up .
And I be to have have a ride this afternoon -- and ice cream -- and maybe a movie .
So I be mad .
And when your Very Handsome Cat come and look at me I just get out and climb down . ''
He look straight at her and smile .
Jims have a very dear little smile .
It seem a pity there be no mother alive to revel in it .
The lady smile back .
`` I think you do right , '' she say . ''
You would n't shut a little boy up if you have one , would you ? ''
say Jims .
`` No -- no , dear heart , I would n't , '' say the lady .
She say it a if something hurt her horribly .
She smile again gallantly .
`` Will you come here and sit down ? ''
she add , pull a chair out from the table .
`` Thank you .
I 'd rather sit here , '' say Jims , plump down on the grass at her foot .
`` Then maybe your cat will come to me . ''
The cat come over promptly and rub his head against Jims ' knee .
Jims stroke him delightedly ; how lovely his soft fur felt and his round velvety head .
`` I like cat , '' explain Jims , `` and I have nothing but a gobbler .
This be such a Very Handsome Cat .
What be his name , please ? ''
`` Black Prince .
He love me , '' say the lady .
`` He always come to my bed in the morning and wake me by pat my face with his paw .
He do n't mind my be ugly . ''
She speak with a bitterness Jims could n't understand .
`` But you be not ugly , '' he say .
`` Oh , I be ugly -- I be ugly , '' she cry .
`` Just look at me -- right at me .
Does n't it hurt you to look at me ? ''
Jims look at her gravely and dispassionately .
`` No , it do n't , '' he say .
`` Not a bit , '' he add , after some further exploration of his consciousness .
Suddenly the lady laugh beautifully .
A faint rosy flush come into her unscarred cheek .
`` James , I believe you mean it . ''
`` Of course I mean it .
And , if you do n't mind , please call me Jims .
Nobody call me James but Aunt Augusta .
She be n't my whole aunt .
She be just Uncle Walter 's half-sister .
He be my whole uncle . ''
`` What do he call you ? ''
ask the lady .
She look away a she ask it .
`` Oh , Jims , when he think about me .
He do n't often think about me .
He have too many sick child to think about .
Sick child be all Uncle Walter care about .
He 's the great child 's doctor in the Dominion , Mr. Burroughs say .
But he be a woman-hater . ''
`` How do you know that ? ''
`` Oh , I hear Mr. Burroughs say it .
Mr. Burroughs be my tutor , you know .
I study with him from nine till one .
I 'm not allow to go to the public school .
I 'd like to , but Uncle Walter think I 'm not strong enough yet .
I 'm go next year , though , when I 'm ten .
I have holiday now .
Mr. Burroughs always go away the first of June . ''
`` How come he to tell you your uncle be a woman-hater ? ''
persist the lady .
`` Oh , he do n't tell me .
He be talk to a friend of his .
He think I be read my book .
So I be -- but I hear it all .
It be more interesting than my book .
Uncle Walter be engage to a lady , long , long ago , when he be a young man .
She be devilishly pretty . ''
`` Oh , Jims ! ''
`` Mr. Burroughs say so .
I 'm only quote , '' say Jims easily .
`` And Uncle Walter just worship her .
And all at once she just jilt him without a word of explanation , Mr. Burroughs say .
So that be why he hat woman .
It be n't any wonder , be it ? ''
`` I suppose not , '' say the lady with a sigh .
`` Jims , be you hungry ? ''
`` Yes , I be .
You see , the pudding be spill .
But how do you know ? ''
`` Oh , boys always use to be hungry when I know them long ago .
I think they have n't change .
I shall tell Martha to bring out something to eat and we 'll have it here under this tree .
You sit here -- I 'll sit there .
Jims , it 's so long since I talk to a little boy that I 'm not sure that I know how . ''
`` You know how , all right , '' Jims assure her .
`` But what be I to call you , please ? ''
`` My name be Miss Garland , '' say the lady a little hesitatingly .
But she saw the name mean nothing to Jims .
`` I would like you to call me Miss Avery .
Avery be my first name and I never hear it nowadays .
Now for a jamboree !
I ca n't offer you a movie -- and I 'm afraid there be n't any ice cream either .
I could have have some if I 'd know you be come .
But I think Martha will be able to find something good . ''
A very old woman , who look at Jims with great amazement , come out to set the table .
Jims think she must be as old a Methusaleh .
But he do not mind her .
He run race with Black Prince while tea be be prepare , and roll the delighted cat over and over in the grass .
And he discover a fragrant herb-garden in a far corner and be delight .
Now it be truly a garden of spice .
`` Oh , it be so beautiful here , '' he tell Miss Avery , who sit and look at his revel with a hungry expression in her lovely eye .
`` I wish I could come often . ''
`` Why ca n't you ? ''
say Miss Avery .
The two look at each other with sly intelligence .
`` I could come whenever Aunt Augusta shut me up in the blue room , '' say Jims .
`` Yes , '' say Miss Avery .
Then she laugh and hold out her arm .
Jims fly into them .
He put his arm about her neck and kiss her scarred face .
`` Oh , I wish you be my aunt , '' he say .
Miss Avery suddenly push him away .
Jims be horribly afraid he have offend her .
But she take his hand .
`` We 'll just be chum , Jims , '' she say .
`` That 's really good than be relation , after all .
Come and have tea . ''
Over that glorious tea-table they become life-long friend .
They have always know each other and always would .
The Black Prince sit between them and be feed tit-bits .
There be such a lot of good thing on the table and nobody to say `` You have have enough , James . ''
James ate until he think he have enough .
Aunt Augusta would have think he be doom , could she have see him .
`` I suppose I must go back , '' say Jims with a sigh .
`` It will be our supper time in half an hour and Aunt Augusta will come to take me out . ''
`` But you 'll come again ? ''
`` Yes , the first time she shut me up .
And if she do n't shut me up pretty soon I 'll be so bad she 'll have to shut me up . ''
`` I 'll always set a place for you at the tea-table after this , Jims .
And when you 're not here I 'll pretend you be .
And when you ca n't come here write me a letter and bring it when you do come . ''
`` Good-bye , '' say Jims .
He take her hand and kiss it .
He have read of a young knight do that and have always think he would like to try it if he ever get a chance .
But who could dream of kiss Aunt Augusta 's hand ?
`` You dear , funny thing , '' say Miss Avery .
`` Have you think of how you be to get back ?
Can you reach that pine bough from the ground ? ''
`` Maybe I can jump , '' say Jims dubiously .
`` I 'm afraid not .
I 'll give you a stool and you can stand on it .
Just leave it there for future use .
Good-bye , Jims .
Jims , two hour ago I do n't know there be such a person in the world a you -- and now I love you -- I love you . ''
Jims ' heart fill with a great warm gush of gladness .
He have always want to be love .
And no living creature , he felt sure , love him , except his gobbler -- and a gobbler 's love be not very satisfying , though it be well than nothing .
He be blissfully happy a he carry his stool across the lawn .
He climb his pine and go in at the window and curl up on the seat in a maze of delight .
The blue room be more shadowy than ever but that do not matter .
Over in the Garden of Spices be friendship and laughter and romance galore .
The whole world be transform for Jims .
From that time Jims live a shamelessly double life .
Whenever he be shut in the blue room he escape to the Garden of Spices -- and he be shut in very often , for , Mr. Burroughs be away , he get into a good deal of what Aunt Augusta call mischief .
Besides , it be a sad truth that Jims do n't try very hard to be good now .
He think it pay well to be bad and be shut up .
To be sure there be always a fly in the ointment .
He be haunt by a vague fear that Aunt Augusta might relent and come to the blue room before supper time to let him out .
`` And then the fat would be in the fire , '' say Jims .
But he have a glorious summer and throve so well on his new diet of love and companionship that one day Uncle Walter , with few sick child to think about than usual , look at him curiously and say : `` Augusta , that boy seem to be grow much strong .
He have a good color and his eye be get to look more like a boy 's eye should .
We 'll make a man of you yet , Jims . ''
`` He may be get strong but he 's get naughtier , too , '' say Aunt Augusta , grimly .
`` I be sorry to say , Walter , that he behave very badly . ''
`` We be all young once , '' say Uncle Walter indulgently .
`` Were you ? ''
ask Jims in blank amazement .
Uncle Walter laugh .
`` Do you think me an antediluvian , Jims ? ''
`` I do n't know what that be .
But your hair be gray and your eye be tire , '' say Jims uncompromisingly .
Uncle Walter laugh again , toss Jims a quarter , and go out .
`` Your uncle be only forty-five and in his prime , '' say Aunt Augusta dourly .
Jims deliberately run across the room to the window and , under pretence of look out , knock down a flower pot .
So he be exile to the blue room and get into his beloved Garden of Spices where Miss Avery 's beautiful eye look love into his and the Black Prince be a jolly playmate and old Martha pet and spoil him to her heart 's content .
Jims never ask question but he be a wide-awake chap , and , take one thing with another , he find out a good deal about the occupant of the old stone house .
Miss Avery never go anywhere and no one ever go there .
She live all alone with two old servant , man and maid .
Except these two and Jims nobody have ever see her for twenty year .
Jims do n't know why , but he think it must be because of the scar on her face .
He never refer to it , but one day Miss Avery tell him what cause it .
`` I drop a lamp and my dress catch fire and burn my face , Jims .
It make me hideous .
I be beautiful before that -- very beautiful .
Everybody say so .
Come in and I will show you my picture . ''
She take him into her big parlor and show him the picture hang on the wall between the two high window .
It be of a young girl in white .
She certainly be very lovely , with her rose-leaf skin and laughing eye .
Jims look at the pictured face gravely , with his hand in his pocket and his head on one side .
Then he look at Miss Avery .
`` You be pretty then -- yes , '' he say , judicially , `` but I like your face ever so much good now . ''
`` Oh , Jims , you ca n't , '' she protest .
`` Yes , I do , '' persist Jims .
`` You look kind and -- nicer now . ''
It be the near Jims could get to express what he felt a he look at the picture .
The young girl be beautiful , but her face be a little hard .
There be pride and vanity and something of the insolence of great beauty in it .
There be nothing of that in Miss Avery 's face now -- nothing but sweetness and tenderness , and a motherly yearning to which every fibre of Jims ' small be respond .
How they love each other , those two !
And how they understand each other !
To love be easy , and therefore common ; but to understand -- how rare that be !
And oh !
such good time a they have !
They make taffy .
Jims have always long to make taffy , but Aunt Augusta 's immaculate kitchen and saucepan might not be so desecrated .
They read fairy tale together .
Mr. Burroughs have disapprove of fairy tale .
They blow soap-bubbles out on the lawn and let them float away over the garden and the orchard like fairy balloon .
They have glorious afternoon tea under the beech tree .
They make ice cream themselves .
Jims even slide down the bannister when he want to .
And he could try out a slang word or two occasionally without anybody dying of horror .
Miss Avery do not seem to mind it a bit .
At first Miss Avery always wear dark sombre dress .
But one day Jims find her in a pretty gown of pale primrose silk .
It be very old and old-fashioned , but Jims do not know that .
He caper round her in delight .
`` You like me good in this ? ''
she ask , wistfully .
`` I like you just as well , no matter what you wear , '' say Jims , `` but that dress be awfully pretty . ''
`` Would you like me to wear bright color , Jims ? ''
`` You bet I would , '' say Jims emphatically .
After that she always wear them -- pink and primrose and blue and white ; and she let Jims wreathe flower in her splendid hair .
He have quite a knack of it .
She never wear any jewelry except , always , a little gold ring with a design of two clasped hand .
`` A friend give that to me long ago when we be boy and girl together at school , '' she tell Jims once .
`` I never take it off , night or day .
When I die it be to be bury with me . ''
`` You must n't die till I do , '' say Jims in dismay .
`` Oh , Jims , if we could only live together nothing else would matter , '' she say hungrily .
`` Jims -- Jims -- I see so little of you really -- and some day soon you 'll be go to school -- and I 'll lose you . ''
`` I 've get to think of some way to prevent it , '' cry Jims .
`` I wo n't have it .
I wo n't -- I wo n't . ''
But his heart sank notwithstanding .
One day Jims slip from the blue room , down the pine and across the lawn with a tear-stained face .
`` Aunt Augusta be go to kill my gobbler , '' he sob in Miss Avery 's arm .
`` She say she be n't go to bother with him any long -- and he 's get old -- and he 's to be kill .
And that gobbler be the only friend I have in the world except you .
Oh , I ca n't stand it , Miss Avery . ''
Next day Aunt Augusta tell him the gobbler have be sell and take away .
And Jims fly into a passion of tear and protest about it and be promptly incarcerate in the blue room .
A few minute later a sob boy plunge through the tree -- and stop abruptly .
Miss Avery be read under the beech and the Black Prince be snooze on her knee -- and a big , magnificent , bronze turkey be parade about on the lawn , twist his huge fan of a tail this way and that . ''
My gobbler ! ''
cry Jims .
`` Yes .
Martha go to your uncle 's house and buy him .
Oh , she do n't betray you .
She tell Nancy Jane she want a gobbler and , have see one over there , think perhaps she could get him .
See , here 's your pet , Jims , and here he shall live till he die of old age .
And I have something else for you -- Edward and Martha go across the river yesterday to the Murray Kennels and get it for you . ''
`` Not a dog ? ''
exclaim Jims .
`` Yes -- a dear little bull pup .
He shall be your very own , Jims , and I only stipulate that you reconcile the Black Prince to him . ''
It be something of a task but Jims succeed .
Then follow a month of perfect happiness .
At least three afternoon a week they contrive to be together .
It be all too good to be true , Jims felt .
Something would happen soon to spoil it .
Just suppose Aunt Augusta grow tender-hearted and cease to punish !
Or suppose she suddenly discover that he be grow too big to be shut up !
Jims begin to stint himself in eat lest he grow too fast .
And then Aunt Augusta worry about his loss of appetite and suggest to Uncle Walter that he should be send to the country till the hot weather be over .
Jims do n't want to go to the country now because his heart be elsewhere .
He must eat again , if he grow like a weed .
It be all very harassing .
Uncle Walter look at him keenly .
`` It seem to me you 're look pretty fit , Jims .
Do you want to go to the country ? ''
`` No , please . ''
`` Are you happy , Jims ? ''
`` Sometimes . ''
`` A boy should be happy all the time , Jims . ''
`` If I have a mother and someone to play with I would be . ''
`` I have try to be a mother to you , Jims , '' say Aunt Augusta , in an offended tone .
Then she address Uncle Walter .
`` A young woman would probably understand him good .
And I feel that the care of this big place be too much for me .
I would prefer to go to my own old home .
If you have marry long ago , a you should , Walter , James would have have a mother and some cousin to play with .
I have always be of this opinion . ''
Uncle Walter frown and get up .
`` Just because one woman play you false be no good reason for spoil your life , '' go on Aunt Augusta severely .
`` I have keep silence all these year but now I be go to speak -- and speak plainly .
You should marry , Walter .
You be young enough yet and you owe it to your name . ''
`` Listen , Augusta , '' say Uncle Walter sternly .
`` I love a woman once .
I believe she love me .
She send me back my ring one day and with it a message say she have cease to care for me and bid me never to try to look upon her face again .
Well , I have obey her , that be all . ''
`` There be something strange about all that , Walter .
The life she have since lead prof that .
So you should not let it embitter you against all woman . ''
`` I have n't .
It 's nonsense to say I 'm a woman-hater , Augusta .
But that experience have rob me of the power to care for another woman . ''
`` Well , this be n't a proper conversation for a child to hear , '' say Aunt Augusta , recollect herself .
`` Jims , go out . ''
Jims would have give one of his ear to stay and listen with the other .
But he go obediently .
And then , the very next day , the dreaded something happen .
It be the first of August and very , very hot .
Jims be late come to dinner and Aunt Augusta reprove him and Jims , deliberately , and with malice aforethought , tell her he think she be a nasty old woman .
He have never be saucy to Aunt Augusta before .
But it be three day since he have see Miss Avery and the Black Prince and Nip and he be desperate .
Aunt Augusta crimson with anger and doom Jims to an afternoon in the blue room for impertinence .
`` And I shall tell your uncle when he come home , '' she add .
That rankle , for Jims do n't want Uncle Walter to think him impertinent .
But he forget all his worry a he scamper through the Garden of Spices to the beech tree .
And there Jims stop a if he have be shoot .
Prone on the grass under the beech tree , white and cold and still , lay his Miss Avery -- dead , stone dead !
At least Jims drought she be dead .
He fly into the house like a mad thing , shriek for Martha .
Nobody answer .
Jims recollect , with a rush of sicken dread , that Miss Avery have tell him Martha and Edward be go away that day to visit a sister .
He rush blindly across the lawn again , through the little side gate he have never pass before and down the street home .
Uncle Walter be just open the door of his car .
`` Uncle Walter -- come -- come , '' sob Jims , clutch frantically at his hand .
`` Miss Avery 's dead -- dead -- oh , come quick . '' ''
Who be dead ? ''
`` Miss Avery -- Miss Avery Garland .
She 's lie on the grass over there in her garden .
And I love her so -- and I 'll die , too -- oh , Uncle Walter , come . ''
Uncle Walter look a if he want to ask some question , but he say nothing .
With a strange face he hurry after Jims .
Miss Avery be still lie there .
As Uncle Walter bent over her he saw the broad red scar and start back with an exclamation .
`` She be dead ? ''
gasp Jims .
`` No , '' say Uncle Walter , bend down again -- `` no , she have only faint , Jims -- overcome by the heat , I suppose .
I want help .
Go and call somebody . ''
`` There 's no one home here to-day , '' say Jims , in a spasm of joy so great that it shake him like a leaf .
`` Then go home and telephone over to Mr. Loring 's .
Tell them I want the nurse who be there to come here for a few minute . ''
Jims do his errand .
Uncle Walter and the nurse carry Miss Avery into the house and then Jims go back to the blue room .
He be so unhappy he do n't care where he go .
He wish something would jump at him out of the bed and put an end to him .
Everything be discover now and he would never see Miss Avery again .
Jims lay very still on the window seat .
He do not even cry .
He have come to one of the grief that lie too deep for tear .
`` I think I must have be put under a curse at birth , '' think poor Jims .
* * * * * Over at the stone house Miss Avery be lie on the couch in her room .
The nurse have go away and Dr. Walter be sit look at her .
He lean forward and pull away the hand with which she be hide the scar on her face .
He look first at the little gold ring on the hand and then at the scar .
`` Do n't , '' she say piteously .
`` Avery -- why do you do it ?
-- why do you do it ? ''
`` Oh , you know -- you must know now , Walter . ''
`` Avery , do you break my heart and spoil my life -- and your own -- simply because your face be scar ? ''
`` I could n't bear to have you see me hideous , '' she moan .
`` You have be so proud of my beauty .
I -- I -- think you could n't love me any more -- I could n't bear the thought of look in your eye and see aversion there . ''
Walter Grant lean forward .
`` Look in my eye , Avery .
Do you see any aversion ? ''
Avery force herself to look .
What she saw cover her face with a hot blush .
`` Did you think my love such a poor and superficial thing , Avery , '' he say sternly , `` that it must vanish because a blemish come on your fairness ?
Do you think that would change me ?
Was your own love for me so slight ? ''
`` No -- no , '' she sob .
`` I have love you every moment of my life , Walter .
Oh , do n't look at me so sternly . ''
`` If you have even tell me , '' he say .
`` You say I be never to try to look on your face again -- and they tell me you have go away .
You send me back my ring . ''
`` I keep the old one , '' she interrupt , hold out her hand , `` the first one you ever give me -- do you remember , Walter ?
When we be boy and girl . ''
`` You rob me of all that make life worth while , Avery .
Do you wonder that I 've be a bitter man ? ''
`` I be wrong -- I be wrong , '' she sob .
`` I should have believe in you .
But do n't you think I 've pay , too ?
Forgive me , Walter -- it 's too late to atone -- but forgive me . '' ''
Is it too late ? ''
he ask gravely .
She point to the scar .
`` Could you endure see this opposite to you every day at your table ? ''
she ask bitterly .
`` Yes -- if I could see your sweet eye and your beloved smile with it , Avery , '' he answer passionately .
`` Oh , Avery , it be you I love -- not your outward favor .
Oh , how foolish you be -- foolish and morbid !
You always put too high a value on beauty , Avery .
If I have dream of the true state of the case -- if I have know you be here all these year -- why I hear a rumor long ago that you have marry , Avery -- but if I have know I would have come to you and make you be -- sensible . ''
She give a little laugh at his lame conclusion .
That be so like the old Walter .
Then her eye fill with tear a he take her in his arm .
* * * * * The door of the blue room open .
Jims do not look up .
It be Aunt Augusta , of course -- and she have hear the whole story .
`` Jims , boy . ''
Jims lift his miserable eye .
It be Uncle Walter -- but a different Uncle Walter -- an Uncle Walter with laugh eye and a strange radiance of youth about him .
`` Poor , lonely little fellow , '' say Uncle Walter unexpectedly .
`` Jims , would you like Miss Avery to come here -- and live with u always -- and be your real aunt ? ''
`` Great snake ! ''
say Jims , transform in a second .
`` Is there any chance of that ? ''
`` There be a certainty , thanks to you , '' say Uncle Walter .
`` You can go over to see her for a little while .
Do n't talk her to death -- she 's weak yet -- and attend to that menagerie of yours over there -- she 's worry because the bull dog and gobbler be n't feed -- and Jims -- '' But Jims have swing down through the pine and be tear across the Garden of Spices .
The Girl and the Photograph When I hear that Peter Austin be in Vancouver I hunt him up .
I have meet Peter ten year before when I have go east to visit my father 's people and have spend a few week with an uncle in Croyden .
The Austins live across the street from Uncle Tom , and Peter and I have strike up a friendship , although he be a hobbledehoy of awkward sixteen and I , at twenty-two , be old and wise and more dignified than I 've ever be since or ever expect to be again .
Peter be a jolly little round freckle chap .
He be all right when no girl be around ; when they be he retire within himself like a misanthropic oyster , and be about a interesting .
This be the one point upon which we always disagree .
Peter could n't endure girl ; I be devote to them by the wholesale .
The Croyden girl be pretty and vivacious .
I have a score of flirtation during my brief sojourn among them .
But when I go away the face I carry in my memory be not that of any girl with whom I have walk and drive and play the game of heart .
It be ten year ago , but I have never be quite able to forget that girl 's face .
Yet I have see it but once and then only for a moment .
I have go for a solitary ramble in the wood over the river and , in a lonely little valley dim with pine , where I think myself alone , I have come suddenly upon her , stand ankle-deep in fern on the bank of a brook , the late evening sunshine fall yellowly on her uncovered dark hair .
She be very young -- no more than sixteen ; yet the face and eye be already those of a woman .
Such a face !
Beautiful ?
Yes , but I think of that afterward , when I be alone .
With that face before my eye I think only of it purity and sweetness , of the lovely soul and rich mind look out of the great , greyish-blue eye which , in the dimness of the pine shadow , look almost black .
There be something in the face of that child-woman I have never see before and be destine never to see again in any other face .
Careless boy though I be , it stir me to the deep .
I felt that she must have be wait forever in that pine valley for me and that , in find her , I have find all of good that life could offer me .
I would have speak to her , but before I could shape my greet into word that should not seem rude or presumptuous , she have turn and go , step lightly across the brook and vanishing in the maple copse beyond .
For no more than ten second have I gaze into her face , and the soul of her , the real woman behind the fair outwardness , have look back into my eye ; but I have never be able to forget it .
When I return home I question my cousin diplomatically a to who she might be .
I felt strangely reluctant to do so -- it seem in some way sacrilege ; yet only by so do could I hope to discover her .
They could tell me nothing ; nor do I meet her again during the remainder of my stay in Croyden , although I never go anywhere without look for her , and haunt the pine valley daily , in the hope of see her again .
My disappointment be so bitter that I laugh at myself .
I think I be a fool to feel thus about a girl I have meet for a moment in a chance ramble -- a mere child at that , with her hair still hang in it long glossy schoolgirl braid .
But when I remember her eye , my wisdom forgive me .
Well , that be ten year ago ; in those ten year the memory have , I must confess , grown dimmer .
In our busy western life a man have not much time for sentimental recollection .
Yet I have never be able to care for another woman .
I want to ; I want to marry and settle down .
I have come to the time of life when a man wearies of drifting and begin to hanker for a calm anchorage in some snug haven of his own .
But , somehow , I shirk the matter .
It seem rather easy to let thing slide .
At this stage Peter come west .
He be something in a bank , and be a round and jolly a ever ; but he have evidently change his attitude towards girl , for his room be full of their photo .
They be stick around everywhere and they be all pretty .
Either Peter have excellent taste , or the Croyden photographer know how to flatter .
But there be one on the mantel which attract my attention especially .
If the photo be to be trust the girl be quite the prettiest I have ever see .
`` Peter , what pretty girl 's picture be this on your mantel ? ''
I call out to Peter , who be in his bedroom , don even dress for some function .
`` That 's my cousin , Marian Lindsay , '' he answer .
`` She be rather nice-looking , be n't she .
Lives in Croyden now -- use to live up the river at Chiselhurst .
Did n't you ever chance across her when you be in Croyden ? ''
`` No , '' I say .
`` If I have I would n't have forget her face . ''
`` Well , she 'd be only a kid then , of course .
She 's twenty-six now .
Marian be a mighty nice girl , but she 's bound to be an old maid .
She 's get notion -- ideal , she call 'em .
All the Croyden fellow have be in love with her at one time or another but they might as well have make up to a statue .
Marian really have n't a spark of feeling or sentiment in her .
Her look be the best part of her , although she 's confoundedly clever . ''
Peter speak rather squiffily .
I suspect that he have be one of the smitten swains himself .
I look at the photo for a few minute longer , admire it more every minute and , when I hear Peter come out , I do an unjustifiable thing -- I take that photo and put it in my pocket .
I expect Peter would make a fuss when he miss it , but that very night the house in which he live be burn to the ground .
Peter escape with the most important of his good and chattel , but all the counterfeit presentment of his dear divinity go up in smoke .
If he ever think particularly of Marian Lindsay 's photograph he must have suppose that it share the fate of the others .
As for me , I prop my ill-gotten treasure up on my mantel and worship it for a fortnight .
At the end of that time I go boldly to Peter and tell him I want him to introduce me by letter to his dear cousin and ask her to agree to a friendly correspondence with me .
Oddly enough , I do not do this without some reluctance , in spite of the fact that I be as much in love with Marian Lindsay a it be possible to be through the medium of a picture .
I think of the girl I have see in the pine wood and felt an inward shrink from a step that might divide me from her forever .
But I rat myself for this nonsense .
It be in the high degree unlikely that I should ever meet the girl of the pine again .
If she be still live she be probably some other man 's wife .
I would think no more about it .
Peter whistle when he hear what I have to say .
`` Of course I 'll do it , old man , '' he say obligingly .
`` But I warn you I do n't think it will be much use .
Marian be n't the sort of girl to open up a correspondence in such a fashion .
However , I 'll do the best I can for you . ''
`` Do .
Tell her I 'm a respectable fellow with no violent bad habit and all that .
I 'm in earnest , Peter .
I want to make that girl 's acquaintance , and this seem the only way at present .
I ca n't get off just now for a trip east .
Explain all this , and use your cousinly influence in my behalf if you possess any . ''
Peter grin .
`` It 's not the most graceful job in the world you be put on me , Curtis , '' he say .
`` I do n't mind own up now that I be pretty far go on Marian myself two year ago .
It 's all over now , but it be bad while it last .
Perhaps Marian will consider your request more favourably if I put it in the light of a favour to myself .
She must feel that she owe me something for wreck my life . ''
Peter grin again and look at the one photo he have contrive to rescue from the fire .
It be a pretty , snub-nosed little girl .
She would never have console me for the loss of Marian Lindsay , but every man to his taste .
In due time Peter seek me out to give me his cousin 's answer .
`` Congratulations , Curtis .
You 've out-Caesared Caesar .
You 've conquer without even go and see .
Marian agree to a friendly correspondence with you .
I be amazed , I admit -- even though I do paint you up a a sort of Sir Galahad and Lancelot combine .
I 'm not use to see proud Marian do stunt like that , and it rather take my breath . ''
I write to Marian Lindsay after one farewell dream of the girl under the pine .
When Marian 's letter begin to come regularly I forget the other one altogether .
Such letter -- such witty , sparkling , clever , womanly , delightful letter !
They complete the conquest her picture have begin .
Before we have correspond six month I be besottedly in love with this woman whom I have never see .
Finally , I write and tell her so , and I ask her to be my wife .
A fortnight later her answer come .
She say frankly that she believe she have learn to care for me during our correspondence , but that she think we should meet in person , before come to any definite understanding .
Could I not arrange to visit Croyden in the summer ?
Until then we would better continue on our present footing .
I agree to this , but I consider myself practically engage , with the personal meeting merely to be regard a a sop to the Cerberus of conventionality .
I permit myself to use a decidedly lover-like tone in my letter henceforth , and I hail it a a favourable omen that I be not rebuke for this , although Marian 's own letter still retain their pleasant , simple friendliness .
Peter have at first torment me mercilessly about the affair , but when he saw I do not like his chaff he stop it .
Peter be always a good fellow .
He realize that I regard the matter seriously , and he saw me off when I leave for the east with a grin temper by honest sympathy and understanding .
`` Good luck to you , '' he say .
`` If you win Marian Lindsay you 'll win a pearl among woman .
I have n't be able to grasp her take to you in this fashion , though .
It 's so unlike Marian .
But , since she undoubtedly have , you be a lucky man . ''
I arrive in Croyden at dusk and go to Uncle Tom 's .
There I find them busy with preparation for a party to be give that night in honour of a girl friend who be visit my cousin Edna .
I be secretly annoy , for I want to hasten at once to Marian .
But I could n't decently get away , and on second thought I be console by the reflection that she would probably come to the party .
I know she belong to the same social set a Uncle Tom 's girl .
I should , however , have prefer our meeting to have be under different circumstance .
From my stand behind the palm in a corner I eagerly scan the guest a they arrive .
Suddenly my heart give a bound .
Marian Lindsay have just come in .
I recognize her at once from her photograph .
It have not flatter her in the least ; indeed , it have not do her justice , for her exquisite colouring of hair and complexion be quite lose in it .
She be , moreover , gown with a taste and smartness eminently admirable in the future Mrs. Eric Curtis .
I felt a thrill of proprietary pride a I step out from behind the palm .
She be talk to Aunt Grace ; but her eye fell on me .
I expect a little start of recognition , for I have send her an excellent photograph of myself ; but her gaze be one of blankest unconsciousness .
I felt something like disappointment at her non-recognition , but I console myself by the reflection that people often fail to recognize other people whom they have see only in photograph , no matter how good the likeness may be .
I waylay Edna , who be pass at that time , and say , `` Edna I want you to introduce me to the girl who be talk to your mother . ''
Edna laugh .
`` So you have succumb at first sight to our Croyden beauty ?
Of course I 'll introduce you , but I warn you beforehand that she be the most incorrigible flirt in Croyden or out of it .
So take care . ''
It jar on me to hear Marian call a flirt .
It seem so out of keep with her letter and the womanly delicacy and fineness reveal in them .
But I reflect that woman sometimes find it hard to forgive another woman who absorb more than her share of lover , and generally take their revenge by dub her a flirt , whether she deserve the name or not .
We have cross the room during this reflection .
Marian turn and stand before u , smile at Edna , but evince no recognition whatever of myself .
It be a piquant experience to find yourself await an introduction to a girl to whom you be virtually engage .
`` Dorothy dear , '' say Edna , `` this be my cousin , Mr. Curtis , from Vancouver .
Eric , this be Miss Armstrong . ''
I suppose I bow .
Habit carry u mechanically through many impossible situation .
I do n't know what I look like or what I say , if I say anything .
I do n't suppose I betray my dire confusion , for Edna go off unconcernedly without another glance at me .
Dorothy Armstrong !
Gracious power -- who -- where -- why ?
If this girl be Dorothy Armstrong who be Marian Lindsay ?
To whom be I engage ?
There be some awful mistake somewhere , for it could not be possible that there be two girl in Croyden who look exactly like the photograph reposing in my valise at that very moment .
I stammer like a schoolboy .
`` I -- oh -- I -- your face seem familiar to me , Miss Armstrong .
I -- I -- think I must have see your photograph somewhere . ''
`` Probably in Peter Austin 's collection , '' smile Miss Armstrong .
`` He have one of mine before he be burn out .
How be he ? ''
`` Peter ?
Oh , he 's well , '' I reply vaguely .
I be think a hundred word to the second , but my thought arrive nowhere .
I be star at Miss Armstrong like a man bewitch .
She must have think me a veritable booby .
`` Oh , by the way -- can you tell me -- do you know a Miss Lindsay in Croyden ? ''
Miss Armstrong look surprised and a little bored .
Evidently she be not use to have newly introduce young men inquire about another girl .
`` Marian Lindsay ?
Oh , yes . ''
`` Is she here tonight ? ''
I say .
`` No , Marian be not go to party just now , owe to the recent death of her aunt , who live with them . ''
`` Does she -- oh -- do she look like you at all ? ''
I inquire idiotically .
Amusement glimmer but over Miss Armstrong 's boredom .
She probably conclude that I be some harmless lunatic .
`` Like me ?
Not at all .
There could n't be two people more dissimilar .
Marian be quite dark .
I be fair .
And our feature be altogether unlike .
Why , good evening , Jack .
Yes , I believe I do promise you this dance . ''
She bow to me and skim away with Jack .
I saw Aunt Grace bear down upon me and flee incontinently .
In my own room I fling myself on a chair and try to think the matter out .
Where do the mistake come in ?
How have it happen ?
I shut my eye and conjure up the vision of Peter 's room that day .
I remember vaguely that , when I have pick up Dorothy Armstrong 's picture , I have notice another photograph that have fall face downward beside it .
That must have be Marian Lindsay 's , and Peter have think I mean it .
And now what a position I be in !
I be conscious of bitter disappointment .
I have fall in love with Dorothy Armstrong 's photograph .
As far a external semblance go it be she whom I love .
I be practically engage to another woman -- a woman who , in spite of our correspondence , seem to me now , in the shock of this discovery , a stranger .
It be useless to tell myself that it be the mind and soul reveal in those letter that I love , and that that mind and soul be Marian Lindsay 's .
It be useless to remember that Peter have say she be pretty .
Exteriorly , she be a stranger to me ; hers be not the face which have rise before me for nearly a year a the face of the woman I love .
Was ever unlucky wretch in such a predicament before ?
Well , there be only one thing to do .
I must stand by my word .
Marian Lindsay be the woman I have ask to marry me , whose answer I must shortly go to receive .
If that answer be `` yes '' I must accept the situation and banish all thought of Dorothy Armstrong 's pretty face .
Next evening at sunset I go to `` Glenwood , '' the Lindsay place .
Doubtless , an eager lover might have go early , but an eager lover I certainly be not .
Probably Marian be expect me and have give order concern me , for the maid who come to the door convey me to a little room behind the stair -- a room which , a I felt as soon a I enter it , be a woman 's pet domain .
In it book and picture and flower it speak eloquently of dainty femininity .
Somehow , it suit the letter .
I do not feel quite so much the stranger a I have felt .
Nevertheless , when I hear a light footfall on the stair my heart beat painfully .
I stand up and turn to the door , but I could not look up .
The footstep come nearer ; I know that a white hand sweep aside the portière at the entrance ; I know that she have enter the room and be stand before me .
With an effort I raise my eye and look at her .
She stand , tall and gracious , in a ruby splendour of sunset fall through the window beside her .
The light quiver like live radiance over a dark proud head , a white throat , and a face before whose perfect loveliness the memory of Dorothy Armstrong 's laugh prettiness fade like a star in the sunrise , nevermore in the fullness of the day to be remember .
Yet it be not of her beauty I think a I stand spellbound before her .
I seem to see a dim little valley full of whisper pine , and a girl stand under their shadow , look at me with the same great , greyish-blue eye which gaze upon me now from Marian Lindsay 's face -- the same face , mature into gracious womanhood , that I have see ten year ago ; and love -- aye , love -- ever since .
I take an unsteady step forward .
`` Marian ? ''
I say .
* * * * * When I get home that night I burn Dorothy Armstrong 's photograph .
The next day I go to my cousin Tom , who own the fashionable studio of Croyden and , bind him over to secrecy , seek one of Marian 's late photograph from him .
It be the only secret I have ever keep from my wife .
Before we be marry Marian tell me something .
`` I always remember you a you look that day under the pine , '' she say .
`` I be only a child , but I think I love you then and ever afterwards .
When I dream my girl 's dream of love your face rise up before me .
I have the advantage of you that I know your name -- I have hear of you .
When Peter write about you I know who you be .
That be why I agree to correspond with you .
I be afraid it be a forward -- an unwomanly thing to do .
But it seem my chance for happiness and I take it .
I be glad I do . ''
I do not answer in word , but lover will know how I do answer .
The Gossip of Valley View It be the first of April , and Julius Barrett , age fourteen , perch on his father 's gatepost , watch ruefully the low descending sun , and count that day lose .
He have not succeed in `` fooling '' a single person , although he have try repeatedly .
One and all , old and young , of his intended victim have be too wary for Julius .
Hence , Julius be disgust and ready for anything in the way of a stratagem or a spoil .
The Barrett gatepost top the high hill in Valley View .
Julius could see the entire settlement , from `` Young '' Thomas Everett 's farm , a mile to the west , to Adelia Williams 's weather-grey little house on a moonrise slope to the east .
He be gaze moodily down the muddy road when Dan Chester , homeward bound from the post office , come rid sloppily along on his grey mare and pull up by the Barrett gate to hand a paper to Julius .
Dan be a young man who take life and himself very seriously .
He seldom smile , never joke , and have a Washingtonian reputation for veracity .
Dan have never tell a conscious falsehood in his life ; he never even exaggerate .
Julius , behold Dan 's solemn face , be seize with a perfectly irresistible desire to `` fool '' him .
At the same moment his eye catch the dazzling reflection of the set sun on the window of Adelia Williams 's house , and he have an inspiration little short of diabolical .
`` Have you hear the news , Dan ? ''
he ask .
`` No , what be it ? ''
ask Dan .
`` I dunno 's I ought to tell it , '' say Julius reflectively .
`` It 's kind of a family affair , but then Adelia do n't say not to , and anyway it 'll be all over the place soon .
So I 'll tell you , Dan , if you 'll promise never to tell who tell you .
Adelia Williams and Young Thomas Everett be go to be marry . ''
Julius deliver himself of this tremendous lie with a transparently earnest countenance .
Yet Dan , credulous a he be , could not believe it all at once .
`` Git out , '' he say .
`` It 's true , ` pon my word , '' protest Julius .
`` Adelia be up last night and tell Ma all about it .
Ma 's her cousin , you know .
The wedding be to be in June , and Adelia ask Ma to help her get her quilt and thing ready . ''
Julius reel all this off so glibly that Dan finally believe the story , despite the fact that the people thus couple together in prospective matrimony be the very last people in Valley View who could have be expect to marry each other .
Young Thomas be a confirmed bachelor of fifty , and Adelia Williams be forty ; they be not suppose to be even well acquaint , a the Everetts and the Williamses have never be very friendly , although no open feud exist between them .
Nevertheless , in view of Julius 's circumstantial statement , the amazing news must be true , and Dan be instantly agog to carry it far .
Julius watch Dan and the grey mare out of sight , fairly writhe with ecstasy .
Oh , but Dan have be easy !
The story would be all over Valley View in twenty-four hour .
Julius laugh until he come near to fall off the gatepost .
At this point Julius and Danny drop out of our story , and Young Thomas enters .
It be two day later when Young Thomas hear that he be to be marry to Adelia Williams in June .
Eben Clark , the blacksmith , tell him when he go to the forge to get his horse shod .
Young Thomas laugh his big jolly laugh .
Valley View gossip have be marry him off for the last thirty year , although never before to Adelia Williams .
`` It 's news to me , '' he say tolerantly .
Eben grin broadly .
`` Ah , you ca n't bluff it off like that , Tom , '' he say .
`` The news come too straight this time .
Well , I be glad to hear it , although I be mighty surprised .
I never think of you and Adelia .
But she 's a fine little woman and will make you a capital wife . ''
Young Thomas grunt and drive away .
He have a good deal of business to do that day , involve call at various place -- the store for molasses , the mill for flour , Jim Bentley 's for seed grain , the doctor 's for toothache drop for his housekeeper , the post office for mail -- and at each and every place he be joke about his approaching marriage .
In the end it rather annoy Young Thomas , He drive home at last in what be for him something of a temper .
How on earth have that fool story start ?
With such detailed circumstantiality of rug and quilt , too ?
Adelia Williams must be go to marry somebody , and the Valley View gossip , unable to locate the man , have guess Young Thomas .
When he reach home , tire , mud-bespattered , and hungry , his housekeeper , who be also his hire man 's wife , ask him if it be true that he be go to be marry .
Young Thomas , take in at a glance the ill-prepared , half-cold supper on the table , felt more annoyed than ever , and say it be n't , with a strong expression -- not quite an oath -- for Young Thomas never swore , unless swear be as much a matter of intonation a of word .
Mrs. Dunn sigh , pat her swell face , and say she be sorry ; she have hop it be true , for her man have decide to go west .
They be to go in a month 's time .
Young Thomas sit down to his supper with the prospect of have to look up another housekeeper and hire man before plant to destroy his appetite .
Next day , three people who come to see Young Thomas on business congratulate him on his approach marriage .
Young Thomas , who have recover his usual good humour , merely laugh .
There be no use in be too earnest in denial , he think .
He know that his unusual fit of petulance with his housekeeper have only convinced her that the story be true .
It would die away in time , a other similar story have die , he think .
Valley View gossip be imaginative .
Young Thomas look rather serious , however , when the minister and his wife call that evening and refer to the report .
Young Thomas gravely say that it be unfounded .
The minister look graver still and say he be sorry -- he have hop it be true .
His wife glance significantly about Young Thomas 's big , untidy sitting-room , where there be cobweb on the ceiling and fluff in the corner and dust on the mop-board , and say nothing , but look volume .
`` Dang it all , '' say Young Thomas , a they drive away , `` they 'll marry me yet in spite of myself . ''
The gossip make him think about Adelia Williams .
He have never think about her before ; he be barely acquaint with her .
Now he remember that she be a plump , jolly-looking little woman , note for be a good housekeeper .
Then Young Thomas groan , remember that he must start out look for a housekeeper soon ; and housekeeper be not easily find , a Young Thomas have discover several time since his mother 's death ten year before .
Next Sunday in church Young Thomas look at Adelia Williams .
He catch Adelia look at him .
Adelia blush and look guiltily away .
`` Dang it all , '' reflect Young Thomas , forget that he be in church .
`` I suppose she have hear that fool story too .
I 'd like to know the person who start it ; man or woman , I 'd punch their head . ''
Nevertheless , Young Thomas go on look at Adelia by fit and start , although he do not again catch Adelia look at him .
He notice that she have round rosy cheek and twinkle brown eye .
She do not look like an old maid , and Young Thomas wonder that she have be allow to become one .
Sarah Barnett , now , to whom report have marry him a year ago , look like a dried sour apple .
* * * * * For the next four week the story haunt Young Thomas like a spectre .
Down it would not .
Everywhere he go he be joke about it .
It gather fresh detail every week .
Adelia be get her clothes ready ; she be to be marry in seal-brown cashmere ; Vinnie Lawrence at Valley Centre be make it for her ; she have get a new hat with a long ostrich plume ; some say white , some say grey .
Young Thomas keep wonder who the man could be , for he be convince that Adelia be go to marry somebody .
More than that , once he catch himself wonder enviously .
Adelia be a nice-looking woman , and he have not so far heard of any probable housekeeper .
`` Dang it all , '' say Young Thomas to himself in desperation .
`` I would n't care if it be true . ''
His married sister from Carlisle hear the story and come over to investigate .
Young Thomas deny it shortly , and his sister scold .
She have devoutly hop it be true , she say , and it would have be a great weight off her mind .
`` This house be in a disgraceful condition , Thomas , '' she say severely .
`` It would break Mother 's heart if she could rise out of her grave to see it .
And Adelia Williams be a perfect housekeeper . ''
`` You do n't use to think so much of the Williams crowd , '' say Young Thomas drily .
`` Oh , some of them do n't amount to much , '' admit Maria , `` but Adelia be all right . ''
Catching sight of an odd look on Young Thomas 's face , she add hastily , `` Thomas Everett , I believe it 's true after all .
Now , be it ?
For mercy 's sake do n't be so sly .
You might tell me , your own and only sister , if it be . ''
`` Oh , shut up , '' be Young Thomas 's unfeeling reply to his own and only sister .
Young Thomas tell himself that night that Valley View gossip would drive him into an asylum yet if it do n't let up .
He also wonder if Adelia be as much persecute a himself .
No doubt she be .
He never could catch her eye in church now , but he would have be surprise have he realize how many time he try to .
The climax come the third week in May , when Young Thomas , who have be keep house for himself for three week , receive a letter and an express box from his cousin , Charles Everett , out in Manitoba .
Charles and he have be chum in their boyhood .
They correspond occasionally still , although it be twenty year since Charles have go west .
The letter be to congratulate Young Thomas on his approach marriage .
Charles have hear of it through some Valley View correspondent of his wife .
He be much pleased ; he have always like Adelia , he say -- have be an old beau of hers , in fact .
Thomas might give her a kiss for him if he like .
He forward a wedding present by express and hop they would be very happy , etc . .
The present be an elaborate hatrack of polished buffalo horn , mount on red plush , with an inset mirror .
Young Thomas set it up on the kitchen table and scowl moodily at his reflection in the mirror .
If wedding present be begin to come , it be high time something be do .
The matter be past be a joke .
This affair of the present would certainly get out -- thing always get out in Valley View , dang it all -- and he would never hear the last of it .
`` I 'll marry , '' say Young Thomas decisively .
`` If Adelia Williams wo n't have me , I 'll marry the first woman who will , if it 's Sarah Barnett herself . ''
Young Thomas shave and put on his Sunday suit .
As soon a it be safely dark , he hie him away to Adelia Williams .
He felt very doubtful about his reception , but the remembrance of the twinkle in Adelia 's brown eye comfort him .
She look like a woman who have a sense of humour ; she might not take him , but she would not feel offend or insulted because he ask her .
`` Dang it all , though , I hope she will take me , '' say Young Thomas .
`` I 'm in for get marry now and no mistake .
And I ca n't get Adelia out of my head .
I 've be think of her steady ever since that confound gossip begin . ''
When he knock at Adelia 's door he discover that his face be wet with perspiration .
Adelia open the door and start when she saw him ; then she turn very red and stiffly ask him in .
Young Thomas go in and sit down , wonder if all men felt so horribly uncomfortable when they go court .
Adelia stoop low over the woodbox to put a stick of wood in the stove , for the May evening be chilly .
Her shoulder be shake ; the shaking grow bad ; suddenly Adelia laugh hysterically and , sit down on the woodbox , continue to laugh .
Young Thomas eye her with a friendly grin .
`` Oh , do excuse me , '' gasp poor Adelia , wipe tear from her eye .
`` This be -- dreadful -- I do n't mean to laugh -- I do n't know why I 'm laugh -- but -- I -- ca n't help it . ''
She laugh helplessly again .
Young Thomas laugh too .
His embarrassment vanish in the mellowness of that laughter .
Presently Adelia compose herself and remove from the woodbox to a chair , but there be still a suspicious twitch about the corner of her mouth .
`` I suppose , '' say Young Thomas , determine to have it over with before the ice could form again , `` I suppose , Adelia , you 've hear the story that 's be go about you and me of late ? ''
Adelia nod .
`` I 've be persecute to the verge of insanity with it , '' she say .
`` Every soul I 've see have torment me about it , and people have write me about it .
I 've deny it till I be black in the face , but nobody believe me .
I ca n't find out how it start .
I hope you believe , Mr. Everett , that it could n't possibly have arise from anything I say .
I 've felt dreadfully worry for fear you might think it do .
I hear that my cousin , Lucilla Barrett , say I tell her , but Lucilla vow to me that she never say such a thing or even dream of it .
I 've felt dreadful bad over the whole affair .
I even give up the idea of make a quilt after a lovely new pattern I 've get because they make such a talk about my brown dress . ''
`` I 've be kind of suppose that you must be go to marry somebody , and folk just guess it be me , '' say Young Thomas -- he say it anxiously .
`` No , I 'm not go to be marry to anybody , '' say Adelia with a laugh , take up her knitting .
`` I 'm glad of that , '' say Young Thomas gravely .
`` I mean , '' he hasten to add , see the look of astonishment on Adelia 's face , `` that I 'm glad there be n't any other man because -- because I want you myself , Adelia . ''
Adelia lay down her knitting and blush crimson .
But she look at Young Thomas squarely and reproachfully .
`` You need n't think you be bind to say that because of the gossip , Mr. Everett , '' she say quietly .
`` Oh , I do n't , '' say Young Thomas earnestly .
`` But the truth be , the story set me to think about you , and from that I get to wish it be true -- honest , I do -- I could n't get you out of my head , and at last I do n't want to .
It just seem to me that you be the very woman for me if you 'd only take me .
Will you , Adelia ?
I 've get a good farm and house , and I 'll try to make you happy . ''
It be not a very romantic wooing , perhaps .
But Adelia be forty and have never be a romantic little body even in the heyday of youth .
She be a practical woman , and Young Thomas be a fine look man of his age with abundance of worldly good .
Besides , she like him , and the gossip have make her think a good deal about him of late .
Indeed , in a moment of candour she have own to herself the very last Sunday in church that she would n't mind if the story be true .
`` I 'll -- I 'll think of it , '' she say .
This be practically an acceptance , and Young Thomas so understand it .
Without loss of time he cross the kitchen , sit down beside Adelia , and put his arm about her plump waist .
`` Here 's a kiss Charlie send me to give you , '' he say , give it .
The Letters Just before the letter be bring to me that even I be watch the red November sunset from the library window .
It be a stormy , unrestful sunset , gleam angrily through the dark fir bough that be now and again toss suddenly and distressfully in a fitful gust of wind .
Below , in the garden , it be quite dark , and I could only see dimly the dead leaf that be whirl and dance uncannily over the roseless path .
The poor dead leaf -- yet not quite dead !
There be still enough unquiet life leave in them to make them restless and forlorn .
They hearken yet to every call of the wind , who care for them no longer but only play freakishly with them and break their rest .
I felt sorry for the leaf a I watch them in that dull , weird twilight , and angry -- in a petulant fashion that almost make me laugh -- with the wind that would not leave them in peace .
Why should they -- and I -- be vex with these transient breath of desire for a life that have pass u by ?
I be in the grip of a bitter loneliness that evening -- so bitter and so insistent that I felt I could not face the future at all , even with such poor fragment of courage a I have gather about me after Father 's death , hop that they would , at least , suffice for my endurance , if not for my content .
But now they fell away from me at sight of the emptiness of life .
The emptiness !
Ah , it be from that I shrink .
I could have face pain and anxiety and heartbreak undauntedly , but I could not face that terrible , yawning , barren emptiness .
I put my hand over my eye to shut it out , but it press in upon my consciousness insistently , and would not be ignore longer .
The moment when a woman realize that she have nothing to live for -- neither love nor purpose nor duty -- hold for her the bitterness of death .
She be a brave woman indeed who can look upon such a prospect unquailingly , and I be not brave .
I be weak and timid .
Had not Father often laugh mockingly at me because of it ?
It be three week since Father have die -- my proud , handsome , unrelenting old father , whom I have love so intensely and who have never love me .
I have always accept this fact unresentfully and unquestioningly , but it have steep my whole life in it tincture of bitterness .
Father have never forgive me for two thing .
I have cost my mother 's life and I be not a son to perpetuate the old name and carry on the family feud with the Frasers .
I be a very lonely child , with no playmate or companion of any sort , and my girlhood be lonely still .
The only passion in my life be my love for my father .
I would have do and suffer anything to win his affection in return .
But all I ever do win be an amused tolerance -- and I be grateful for that -- almost content .
It be much to have something to love and be permit to love it .
If I have be a beautiful and spirited girl I think Father might have love me , but I be neither .
At first I do not think or care about my lack of beauty ; then one day I be alone in the beech wood ; I be try to disentangle my skirt which have catch on some thorny underbrush .
A young man come around the curve of the path and , see my predicament , bent with murmured apology to help me .
He have to kneel to do it , and I saw a ray of sunshine fall through the beech above u strike like a lance of light athwart the thick brown hair that push out from under his cap .
Before I think I put out my hand and touch it softly , then I blush crimson with shame over what I have do .
But he do not know -- he never know .
When he have release my dress he rise and our eye meet for a moment a I timidly thank him .
I saw that he be good to look upon -- tall and straight , with broad , stalwart shoulder and a dark , clean-cut face .
He have a firm , sensitive mouth and kindly , pleasant , dark blue eye .
I never quite forget the look in those eye .
It make my heart beat strangely , but it be only for a moment , and the next he have lift his cap and pass on .
As I go homeward I wonder who he might be .
He must be a stranger , I think -- probably a visitor in some of our few neighbouring family .
I wonder too if I should meet him again , and find the thought very pleasant .
I know few men and they be all old , like Father , or at least elderly .
They be the only people who ever come to our house , and they either tease me or overlook me .
None of them be at all like this young man I have meet in the beech wood , nor ever could have be , I think .
When I reach home I stop before the big mirror that hung in the hall and do what I have never do before in my life -- look at myself very scrutinizingly and wonder if I have any beauty .
I could only sorrowfully conclude that I have not -- I be so slight and pale , and the thick black hair and dark eye that might have be pretty in another woman seem only to accentuate the lack of spirit and regularity in my feature .
I be still stand there , gaze wistfully at my mirrored face with a strange sinking of spirit , when Father come through the hall , his rid whip in his hand .
Seeing me , he laugh .
`` Do n't waste your time gaze into mirror , Isobel , '' he say carelessly .
`` That might have be excusable in former lady of Shirley whose beauty might pardon and even adorn vanity , but with you it be only absurd .
The needle and the cookbook be all that you need concern yourself with . ''
I be accustom to such speech from him , but they have never hurt me so cruelly before .
At that moment I would have give all the world only to be beautiful .
The next Sunday I look across the church , and in the Fraser pew I saw the young man I have meet in the wood .
He be look at me with his arm fold over his breast and on his brow a little frown that seem somehow indicative of pain and surprise .
I felt a miserable sense of disappointment .
If he be the Frasers ' guest I could not expect to meet him again .
Father hat the Frasers , all the Shirleys hat them ; it be an old feud , bitter and lasting , that have be as much our inheritance for generation a land and money .
The only thing Father have ever take pain to teach me be detestation of the Frasers and all their work .
I accept this a I accept all the other tradition of my race .
I think it do not matter much .
The Frasers be not likely to come my way , and hatred be a good satisfying passion in the lack of all else .
I think I rather take a pride in hat them a become my blood .
I do not look at the Fraser pew again , but outside , under the elm , we meet him , stand in the dappling light and shadow .
He look very handsome and a little sad .
I could not help glance back over my shoulder a Father and I walk to the gate , and I saw him look after u with that little frown which again make me think something have hurt him .
I like well the smile he have wear in the beech wood , but I have an odd liking for the frown too , and I think I have a foolish longing to go back to him , put up my finger and smooth it away .
`` So Alan Fraser have come home , '' say my father .
`` Alan Fraser ? ''
I repeat , with a strange , horrible feeling of coldness and chill come over me like a shadow on a bright day .
Alan Fraser , the son of old Malcolm Fraser of Glenellyn !
The son of our enemy !
He have be live since childhood with his dead mother 's people , so much I know .
And this be he !
Something stung and smart in my eye .
I think the sting and smart might have turn to tear if Father have not be look down at me .
`` Yes .
Did n't you see him in his father 's pew ?
But I forget .
You be too demure to be look at the young men in preaching -- or out of it , Isobel .
You be a model young woman .
Odd that the men never like the model young woman !
Curse old Malcolm Fraser !
What right have he to have a son like that when I have nothing but a puling girl ?
Remember , Isobel , that if you ever meet that young man you be not to speak to or look at him , or even intimate that you be aware of his existence .
He be your enemy and the enemy of your race .
You will show him that you realize this . ''
Of course that end it all -- though just what there have be to end would have be hard to say .
Not long afterwards I meet Alan Fraser again , when I be out for a canter on my mare .
He be stroll through the beech wood with a couple of big collie , and he stop short a I draw near .
I have to do it -- Father have decree -- my Shirley pride demand -- that I should do it .
I look him unseeingly in the face , strike my mare a blow with my whip , and dash past him .
I even felt angry , I think , that a Fraser should have the power to make me feel so badly in do my duty .
After that I have forget .
There be nothing to make me remember , for I never meet Alan Fraser again .
The year slip by , one by one , so like each other in their colourlessness that I forget to take account of them .
I only know that I grow old and that it do not matter since there be nobody to care .
One day they bring Father in , white-lipped and groaning .
His mare have throw him , and he be never to walk again , although he live for five year .
Those five year have be the happiest of my life .
For the first time I be necessary to someone -- there be something for me to do which nobody else could do so well .
I be Father 's nurse and companion ; and I find my pleasure in tend him and amuse him , soothe his hour of pain and brighten his hour of ease .
People say I `` do my duty '' toward him .
I have never like that word `` duty , '' since the day I have ride past Alan Fraser in the beech wood .
I could not connect it with what I do for Father .
It be my delight because I love him .
I do not mind the mood and the irritable outburst that drive others from him .
But now he be dead , and I sit in the sullen dusk , wish that I need not go on with life either .
The loneliness of the big echoing house weigh on my spirit .
I be solitary , without companionship .
I look out on the outside world where the only sign of human habitation visible to my eye be the light twinkle out from the library window of Glenellyn on the dark fir hill two mile away .
By that light I know Alan Fraser must have return from his long sojourn abroad , for it only shine when he be at Glenellyn .
He still live there , something of a hermit , people say ; he have never marry , and he care nothing for society .
His companion be book and dog and horse ; he be give to scientific research and write much for the review ; he travel a great deal .
So much I know in a vague way .
I even saw him occasionally in church , and never think the year have change him much , save that his face be sad and stern than of old and his hair have become iron-grey .
People say that he have inherit and cherish the old hatred of the Shirleys -- that he be very bitter against u .
I believe it .
He have the face of a good hater -- or lover -- a man who could play with no emotion but must take it in all earnestness and intensity .
When it be quite dark the housekeeper bring in the light and hand me a letter which , she say , a man have just bring up from the village post office .
I look at it curiously before I open it , wonder from whom it be .
It be postmark from a city several mile away , and the firm , decide , rather peculiar handwriting be strange to me .
I have no correspondent .
After Father 's death I have receive a few perfunctory note of condolence from distant relative and family friend .
They have hurt me cruelly , for they seem to exhale a subtle spirit of congratulation on my be release from a long and unpleasant martyrdom of attendance on an invalid , that quite override the decorous phrase of conventional sympathy in which they be express .
I hat those letter for their implied injustice .
I be not thankful for my `` release . ''
I miss Father miserably and long passionately for the very tasks and vigil that have evoke their pity .
This letter do not seem like one of those .
I open it and take out some stiff , blackly write sheet .
They be undated and , turn to the last , I saw that they be unsigned .
With a not unpleasant tingling of interest I sit down by my desk to read .
The letter begin abruptly : You will not know by whom this be write .
Do not seek to know -- now or ever .
It be only from behind the veil of your ignorance of my identity that I can ever write to you fully and freely a I wish to write -- can say what I wish to say in word deny to a formal and conventional expression of sympathy .
Dear lady , let me say to you thus what be in my heart .
I know what your sorrow be , and I think I know what your loneliness must be -- the sorrow of a broken tie , the loneliness of a life throw emptily back on itself .
I know how you love your father -- how you must have love him if those eye and brow and mouth speak truth , for they tell of a nature divinely rich and deep , give of it wealth and tenderness ungrudgingly to those who be so happy a to be the object of it affection .
To such a nature bereavement must bring a depth and an agony of grief unknown to shallower soul .
I know what your father 's helplessness and need of you mean to you .
I know that now life must seem to you a broken and embittered thing and , know this , I venture to send this greeting across the gulf of strangerhood between u , tell you that my understanding sympathy be fully and freely yours , and bidding you take heart for the future , which now , it may be , look so heartless and hopeless to you .
Believe me , dear lady , it will be neither .
Courage will come to you with the kind day .
You will find noble task to do , beautiful and gracious duty wait along your path .
The pain and suffering of the world never die , and while it live there will be work for such a you to do , and in the do of it you will find comfort and strength and the high joy of living .
I believe in you .
I believe you will make of your life a beautiful and worthy thing .
I give you Godspeed for the year to come .
Out of my own loneliness I , an unknown friend , who have never clasp your hand , send this message to you .
I understand -- I have always understand -- and I say to you : `` Be of good cheer . ''
To say that this strange letter be a mystery to me seem an inadequate way of state the matter .
I be completely bewilder , nor could I even guess who the writer might be , think and ponder a I might .
The letter itself imply that the writer be a stranger .
The handwriting be evidently that of a man , and I know no man who could or would have send such a letter to me .
The very mystery stung me to interest .
As for the letter itself , it bring me an uplift of hope and inspiration such a I would not have believe possible an hour earlier .
It ring so truly and sincerely , and the mere thought that somewhere I have a friend who care enough to write it , even in such odd fashion , be so sweet that I be half ashamed of the difference it make in my outlook .
Sitting there , I take courage and make a compact with myself that I would justify the writer 's faith in me -- that I would take up my life a something to be worthily live for all good , to the disregard of my own selfish sorrow and shrinking .
I would seek for something to do -- for interest which would bind me to my fellow-creatures -- for task which would lessen the pain and peril of humankind .
An hour before , this would not have seem to me possible ; now it seem the right and natural thing to do .
A week later another letter come .
I welcome it with an eagerness which I fear be almost childish .
It be a much longer letter than the first and be write in quite a different strain .
There be no apology for or explanation of the motive for writing .
It be a if the letter be merely one of a permitted and establish correspondence between old friend .
It begin with a witty , sparkle review of a new book the writer have just read , and pass from this to crisp comment on the great event , political , scientific , artistic , of the day .
The whole letter be pungent , interesting , delightful -- an impersonal essay on a dozen vital topic of life and thought .
Only at the end be a personal note struck .
`` Are you interested in these thing ? ''
run the last paragraph .
`` In what be be do and suffer and attain in the great busy world ?
I think you must be -- for I have see you and read what be write in your face .
I believe you care for these thing a I do -- that your be thrill to the ` still , sad music of humanity ' -- that the song of the poet I love find an echo in your spirit and the aspiration of all struggle soul a sympathy in your heart .
Believing this , I have write freely to you , take a keen pleasure in thus reveal my thought and vision to one who will understand .
For I too be friendless , in the sense of one stand alone , shut out from the sweet , intimate communion of feeling and opinion that may be hold with the heart 's friend .
Shall you have read this a a friend , I wonder -- a candid , uncritical , understand friend ?
Let me hope it , dear lady . ''
I be expect the third letter when it come -- but not until it do come do I realize what my disappointment would have be if it have not .
After that every week bring me a letter ; soon those letter be the great interest in my life .
I have give up all attempt to solve the mystery of their coming and be content to enjoy them for themselves alone .
From week to week I look forward to them with an eagerness that I would hardly confess , even to myself .
And such letter a they be , grow longer and fuller and freer a time go on -- such wise , witty , brilliant , pungent letter , stimulate all my torpid life into tingle zest !
I have begin to look abroad in my small world for worthy work and find plenty to do .
My unknown friend evidently keep track of my expand effort , for he comment and criticize , encourage and advise freely .
There be a humour in his letter that I like ; it leaven them with it sanity and react on me most wholesomely , counteract many of the morbid tendency and influence of my life .
I find myself strive to live up to the writer 's ideal of philosophy and ambition , a picture , often unconsciously , in his letter .
They be an intellectual stimulant a well .
To understand them fully I find it necessary to acquaint myself thoroughly with the literature and art , the science and the politics they touch upon .
After every letter there be something new for me to hunt out and learn and assimilate , until my old narrow mental attitude have so broaden and deepen , sweep out into circle of thought I have never know or imagine , that I hardly know myself .
They have be come for a year before I begin to reply to them .
I have often wish to do so -- there be so many thing I want to say and discuss , but it seem foolish to write letter that could not be send .
One day a letter come that kindle my imagination and stir my heart and soul so deeply that they insistently demand answer expression .
I sit down at my desk and write a full reply to it .
Safe in the belief that the mysterious friend to whom it be write would never see it , I write with a perfect freedom and a total lack of self-consciousness that I could never have attain otherwise .
The writing of that letter give me a pleasure second only to that which the reading of his brought .
For the first time I discover the delight of reveal my thought unhindered by the convention .
Also , I understand well why the writer of those letter have write them .
Doubtless he have enjoy do so and be not impelled thereto simply by a purely philanthropic wish to help me .
When my letter be finish I seal it up and lock it away in my desk with a smile at my middle-aged folly .
What , I wonder , would all my sedate , serious friend , my associate of mission and hospital committee think if they know .
Well , everybody have , or should have , a pet nonsense in her life .
I do not think mine be any silly than some others I know , and to myself I admit that it be very sweet .
I know if those letter cease to come all savour would go out of my life .
After that I write a reply to every letter I receive and keep them all lock up together .
It be delightful .
I write out all my doings and perplexity and hope and plan and wish -- yes , and my dream .
The secret romance of it all make me look on existence with joyous , contented eye .
Gradually a change crept over the letter I receive .
Without ever afford the slight clue to the identity of their writer they grow more intimate and personal .
A subtle , caress note of tenderness breathe from them and thrill my heart curiously .
I felt a if I be be draw into the writer 's life , admit into the most sacred recess of his thought and feeling .
Yet it be all do so subtly , so delicately , that I be unconscious of the change until I discover it in read over the old letter and compare them with the late one .
Finally a letter come -- my first love letter , and surely never be a love letter receive under stranger circumstance .
It begin abruptly a all the letter have begin , plunge into the middle of the writer 's strain of thought without any preface .
The first word drive the blood to my heart and then send it fly hotly all over my face .
I love you .
I must say it at last .
Have you not guess it before ?
It have tremble on my pen in every line I have write to you -- yet I have never dare to shape it into word before .
I know not how I dare now .
I only know that I must .
What a delight to write it out and know that you will read it .
Tonight the mood be on me to tell it to you recklessly and lavishly , never pause to stint or weigh word .
Sweetheart , I love you -- love you -- love you -- dear true , faithful woman soul , I love you with all the heart of a man .
Ever since I first saw you I have love you .
I can never come to tell you so in spoken word ; I can only love you from afar and tell my love under the guise of impersonal friendship .
It matter not to you , but it matter more than all else in life to me .
I be glad that I love you , dear -- glad , glad , glad .
There be much more , for it be a long letter .
When I have read it I bury my burn face in my hand , tremble with happiness .
This strange confession of love meant so much to me ; my heart leap forth to meet it with answer love .
What matter it that we could never meet -- that I could not even guess who my lover be ?
Somewhere in the world be a love that be mine alone and mine wholly and mine forever .
What matter his name or his station , or the mysterious barrier between u ?
Spirit leap to spirit unhindered over the fettering bound of matter and time .
I love and be beloved .
Nothing else matter .
I write my answer to his letter .
I write it fearlessly and unstintedly .
Perhaps I could not have write so freely if the letter be to have be read by him ; a it be , I pour out the rich of my love as fully a he have do .
I keep nothing back , and across the gulf between u I vow a faithful and endure love in response to his .
The next day I go to town on business with my lawyer .
Neither of the member of the firm be in when I call , but I be an old client , and one of the clerk show me into the private office to wait .
As I sit down my eye fell on a folded letter lie on the table beside me .
With a shock of surprise I recognize the writing .
I could not be mistake -- I should have recognize it anywhere .
The letter be lie by it envelope , so fold that only the middle third of the page be visible .
An irresistible impulse swept over me .
Before I could reflect that I have no business to touch the letter , that perhaps it be unfair to my unknown friend to seek to discover his identity when he wish to hide it , I have turn the letter over and see the signature .
I lay it down again and stand up , dizzy , breathless , unseeing .
Like a woman in a dream I walk through the outer office and into the street .
I must have walk on for block before I become conscious of my surroundings .
The name I have see sign to that letter be Alan Fraser !
No doubt the reader have long ago guess it -- have wonder why I have not .
The fact remain that I have not .
Out of the whole world Alan Fraser be the last man whom I should have suspect to be the writer of those letter -- Alan Fraser , my hereditary enemy , who , I have be tell , cherish the old feud so faithfully and bitterly , and hat our very name .
And yet I now wonder at my long blindness .
No one else could have write those letter -- no one but him .
I read them over one by one when I reach home and , now that I possess the key , he reveal himself in every line , expression , think .
And he love me !
I think of the old feud and hatred ; I think of my pride and tradition .
They seem like the dust and ash of outworn thing -- thing to be smile at and cast aside .
I take out all the letter I have write -- all except the last one -- seal them up in a parcel and direct it to Alan Fraser .
Then , summon my groom , I bid him ride to Glenellyn with it .
His look of amazement almost make me laugh , but after he be go I felt dizzy and frighten at my own daring .
When the autumn darkness come down I go to my room and dress a the woman dress who await the one man of all the world .
I hardly know what I hop or expect , but I be all athrill with a nameless , inexplicable happiness .
I admit I look very eagerly into the mirror when I be do , and I think that the result be not unpleasing .
Beauty have never be mine , but a faint reflection of it come over me in the tremulous flush and excitement of the moment .
Then the maid come up to tell me that Alan Fraser be in the library .
I go down with my cold hand tightly clasp behind me .
He be stand by the library table , a tall , broad-shouldered man , with the light strike upward on his dark , sensitive face and iron-grey hair .
When he saw me he come quickly forward .
`` So you know -- and you be not angry -- your letter tell me so much .
I have love you since that day in the beech wood , Isobel -- Isobel . ''
His eye be kindle into mine .
He hold my hand in a close , impetuous clasp .
His voice be infinitely caress a he pronounce my name .
I have never hear it since Father die -- I have never hear it at all so musically and tenderly uttered .
My ancestor might have turn in their graf just then -- but it matter not .
Living love have drive out dead hatred .
`` Isobel , '' he go on , `` there be one letter unanswered -- the last . ''
I go to my desk , take out the last letter I have write and give it to him in silence .
While he read it I stand in a shadowy corner and watch him , wonder if life could always be as sweet a this .
When he have finish he turn to me and hold out his arm .
I go to them a a bird to her nest , and with his lip against mine the old feud be blot out forever .
The Life-Book of Uncle Jesse Uncle Jesse !
The name call up the vision of him a I saw him so often in those two enchant summer at Golden Gate ; a I saw him the first time , when he stand in the open doorway of the little low-eaved cottage on the harbour shore , welcome u to our new domicile with the gentle , unconscious courtesy that become him so well .
A tall , ungainly figure , somewhat stoop , yet suggestive of great strength and endurance ; a clean-shaven old face deeply line and bronze ; a thick mane of iron-grey hair fall quite to his shoulder ; and a pair of remarkably blue , deep-set eye , which sometimes twinkle and sometimes dream , but oftener look out seaward with a wistful question in them , a of one seek something precious and lose .
I be to learn one day what it be for which Uncle Jesse look .
It can not be deny that Uncle Jesse be a homely man .
His spare jaw , rugged mouth , and square brow be not fashion on the line of beauty , but though at first sight you think him plain you never think anything more about it -- the spirit shin through that rugged tenement beautify it so wholly .
Uncle Jesse be quite keenly aware of his lack of outward comeliness and lament it , for he be a passionate worshipper of beauty in everything .
He tell Mother once that he 'd rather like to be make over again and make handsome .
`` Folks say I 'm good , '' he remark whimsically , `` but I sometimes wish the Lord have make me only half a good and put the rest of it into look .
But I reckon He know what He be about , a a good Captain should .
Some of u have to be homely or the purty one -- like Miss Mary there -- would n't show up so well . ''
I be not in the least pretty but Uncle Jesse be always tell me I be -- and I love him for it .
He tell the fib so prettily and sincerely that he almost make me believe it for the time be , and I really think he believe it himself .
All woman be lovely and of good report in his eye , because of one he have love .
The only time I ever saw Uncle Jesse really anger be when someone in his hearing cast an aspersion on the character of a shore girl .
The wretched man who do it fairly cringe when Uncle Jesse turn on him with lightning of eye and thundercloud of brow .
At that moment I no longer find it hard to reconcile Uncle Jesse 's simple , kindly personality with the wild , adventurous life he have live .
We go to Golden Gate in the spring .
Mother 's health have not be good and her doctor recommend sea air and quiet .
Uncle James , when he hear it , propose that we take possession of a small cottage at Golden Gate , to which he have recently fall heir by the death of an old aunt who have live in it .
`` I have n't be up to see it , '' he say , `` but it be just a Aunt Elizabeth leave it and she be the pink of neatness .
The key be in the possession of an old sailor living nearby -- Jesse Boyd be the name , I think .
I imagine you can be very comfortable in it .
It be build right on the harbour shore , inside the bar , and it be within five minute ' walk of the outside shore . ''
Uncle James 's offer fit in very opportunely with our limp family purse , and we straightway betook ourselves to Golden Gate .
We telegraph to Jesse Boyd to have the house open for u and , one crisp spring day , when a rollicking wind be scud over the harbour and the dune , whip the water into white cap and wash the sandshore with long line of silvery breaker , we alight at the little station and walk the half mile to our new home , leave our good and chattel to be cart over in the evening by an oblige station agent 's boy .
* * * * * Our first glimpse of Aunt Elizabeth 's cottage be a delight to soul and sense ; it look so like a big grey seashell strand on the shore .
Between it and the harbour be only a narrow strip of shingle , and behind it be a gnarled and batter fir wood where the wind be in the habit of harp all sort of weird and haunting music .
Inside , it be to prove even yet more quaint and delightful , with it low , dark-beamed ceiling and square , deep-set window by which , whether open or shut , sea breeze enter at their own sweet will .
The view from our door be magnificent , take in the big harbour and sweep of purple hill beyond .
The entrance of the harbour give it it name -- a deep , narrow channel between the bar of sand dune on the one side and a steep , high , frown red sandstone cliff on the other .
We appreciate it significance the first time we saw a splendid golden sunrise flood it , come out of the wonderful sea and sky beyond and billow through that narrow passage in wave of light .
Truly , it be a golden gate through which one might sail to `` faerie land forlorn . ''
As we go along the path to our little house we be agreeably surprise to see a blue spiral of smoke curl up from it big , square chimney , and the next moment Uncle Jesse -LRB- we be call him Uncle Jesse half an hour after we meet him , so it seem scarcely worthwhile to begin with anything else -RRB- come to the door .
`` Welcome , lady , '' he say , hold out a big , hard , but scrupulously clean hand .
`` I think you 'd be feel a bit tired and hungry , maybe , so when I come over to open up I put on a fire and brew you up a cup of tea .
I just delight in be neighbourly and ` tai n't often I have the chance . ''
We find that Uncle Jesse 's `` cup of tea '' mean a veritable spread .
He have air the little dining room , set out the table daintily with Aunt Elizabeth 's china and linen -- `` know jest where to put my hand on 'em -- often and often help old Miss Kennedy wash 'em .
We be crony , her and me .
I miss her terrible '' -- and adorn it with mayflower which , a we afterwards discover , he have tramp several mile to gather .
There be good bread and butter , `` store '' biscuit , a dish of tea fit for the god on high Olympus , and a platter of the most delicious sea trout , do to a turn .
`` Thought they 'd be tasty after travel , '' say Uncle Jesse .
`` They 're fresh a trout can be , ma'am .
Two hour ago they be swim in Johnson 's pond yander .
I catch 'em -- yes , ma'am .
It 's about all I 'm good for now , catch trout and cod occasional .
But ` twere n't always so -- not by no manner of mean .
I use to do other thing , a you 'd admit if you saw my life-book . ''
I be so hungry and tire that I do not then `` rise to the bait '' of Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book . ''
I simply want to begin on those trout .
Mother insist that Uncle Jesse sit down and help u eat the repast he have prepare , and he assent without undue coaxing .
`` Thank ye kindly .
` Twill be a real treat .
I mostly have to eat my meal alone , with the reflection of my ugly old phiz in a look glass opposite for company .
'T be n't often I have the chance to sit down with two such sweet purty lady . ''
Uncle Jesse 's compliment look bald enough on paper , but he pay them with such gracious , gentle deference of tone and look that the woman who receive them felt that she be be offer a queen 's gift in kingly fashion .
He break bread with u and from that moment we be all friend together and forever .
After we have eat all we could , we sit at our table for an hour and listen to Uncle Jesse tell u story of his life .
`` If I talk too much you must jest check me , '' he say seriously , but with a twinkle in his eye .
`` When I do get a chance to talk to anyone I 'm apt to run on terrible . ''
He have be a sailor from the time he be ten year old , and some of his adventure have such a marvellous edge that I secretly wonder if Uncle Jesse be not draw a rather long bow at our credulous expense .
But in this , a I find later , I do him injustice .
His tale be all literally true , and Uncle Jesse have the gift of the born story-teller , whereby `` unhappy , far-off thing '' can be bring vividly before the hearer and make to live again in all their pristine poignancy .
Mother and I laugh and shiver over Uncle Jesse 's tale , and once we find ourselves cry .
Uncle Jesse survey our tear with pleasure shin out through his face like an illuminating lamp .
`` I like to make folk cry that way , '' he remark .
`` It 's a compliment .
But I ca n't do justice to the thing I 've see and help do .
I 've get 'em all jot down in my life-book but I have n't get the knack of write them out properly .
If I have , I could make a great book , if I have the knack of hit on just the right word and string everything together proper on paper .
But I ca n't .
It 's in this poor human critter , '' Uncle Jesse pat his breast sorrowfully , `` but he ca n't get it out . ''
When Uncle Jesse go home that even Mother ask him to come often to see u .
`` I wonder if you 'd give that invitation if you know how likely I 'd be to accept it , '' he remark whimsically .
`` Which be another way of say you wonder if I mean it , '' smile Mother .
`` I do , most heartily and sincerely . ''
`` Then I 'll come .
You 'll likely be pester with me at any hour .
And I 'd be proud to have you drop over to visit me now and then too .
I live on that point yander .
Neither me nor my house be worth come to see .
It 's only get one room and a loft and a stovepipe stick out of the roof for a chimney .
But I 've get a few little thing lie around that I pick up in the queer corner I use to be poke my nose into .
Mebbe they 'd interest you . ''
Uncle Jesse 's `` few little thing '' turn out to be the most interesting collection of curio I have ever see .
His one neat little living room be full of them -- beautiful , hideous or quaint a the case might be , and almost all have some weird or excite story attach .
Mother and I have a beautiful summer at Golden Gate .
We live the life of two child with Uncle Jesse a a playmate .
Our housekeeping be of the simple description and we spend our hour ramble along the shore , read on the rock or sailing over the harbour in Uncle Jesse 's trim little boat .
Every day we love the simple-souled , true , manly old sailor more and more .
He be as refreshing a a sea breeze , as interesting a some ancient chronicle .
We never tire of listen to his story , and his quaint remark and comment be a continual delight to u .
Uncle Jesse be one of those interesting and rare people who , in the picturesque phraseology of the shore folk , `` never speak but they say something . ''
The milk of human kindness and the wisdom of the serpent be mingle in Uncle Jesse 's composition in delightful proportion .
One day he be absent all day and return at nightfall .
`` Took a tramp back yander . ''
`` Back yander '' with Uncle Jesse might mean the station hamlet or the city a hundred mile away or any place between -- `` to carry Mr. Kimball a mess of trout .
He like one occasional and it 's all I can do for a kindness he do me once .
I stay all day to talk to him .
He like to talk to me , though he 's an eddicated man , because he 's one of the folk that 's get to talk or they 're miserable , and he find listener scarce ` round here .
The folk fight shy of him because they think he 's an infidel .
He ai n't that far go exactly -- few men be , I reckon -- but he 's what you might call a heretic .
Heretics be wicked but they 're mighty interesting .
It 's just that they 've get sorter lose look for God , be under the impression that He 's hard to find -- which He ai n't , never .
Most of 'em blunder to Him after a while I guess .
I do n't think listen to Mr. Kimball 's argument be likely to do me much harm .
Mind you , I believe what I be bring up to believe .
It save a vast of trouble -- and back of it all , God be good .
The trouble with Mr. Kimball be , he 's a leetle too clever .
He think he 's bind to live up to his cleverness and that it 's smart to thrash out some new way of get to heaven than to go by the old track the common , ignorant folk be travel .
But he 'll get there sometime all right and then he 'll laugh at himself . ''
* * * * * Nothing ever seem to put Uncle Jesse out or depress him in any way .
`` I 've kind of contract a habit of enjoy thing , '' he remark once , when Mother have comment on his invariable cheerfulness .
`` It 's get so chronic that I believe I even enjoy the disagreeable thing .
It 's great fun think they ca n't last .
` Old rheumatiz , ' I say , when it grip me hard , ` you 've get to stop aching sometime .
The bad you be the sooner you 'll stop , perhaps .
I 'm bind to get the good of you in the long run , whether in the body or out of the body . ' ''
Uncle Jesse seldom come to our house without bring u something , even if it be only a bunch of sweet grass .
`` I favour the smell of sweet grass , '' he say .
`` It always make me think of my mother . ''
`` She be fond of it ? ''
`` Not that I know on .
Dunno 's she ever saw any sweet grass .
No , it 's because it have a kind of motherly perfume -- not too young , you understand -- something kind of seasoned and wholesome and dependable -- just like a mother . ''
Uncle Jesse be a very early riser .
He seldom miss a sunrise .
`` I 've see all kind of sunrise come in through that there Gate , '' he say dreamily one morning when I myself have make a heroic effort at early rising and join him on the rock halfway between his house and ours .
`` I 've be all over the world and , take it all in all , I 've never see a finer sight than a summer sunrise out there beyant the Gate .
A man ca n't pick his time for die , Mary -- jest get to go when the Captain give his sailing order .
But if I could I 'd go out when the morning come in there at the Gate .
I 've watch it a many time and think what a thing it would be to pass out through that great white glory to whatever be wait beyant , on a sea that ai n't map out on any airthly chart .
I think , Mary , I 'd find lost Margaret there . ''
He have already tell me the story of `` lose Margaret , '' a he always call her .
He rarely speak of her , but when he do his love for her tremble in every tone -- a love that have never grow faint or forgetful .
Uncle Jesse be seventy ; it be fifty year since lose Margaret have fall asleep one day in her father 's dory and drift -- a be suppose , for nothing be ever know certainly of her fate -- across the harbour and out of the Gate , to perish in the black thunder squall that have come up suddenly that long-ago afternoon .
But to Uncle Jesse those fifty year be but a yesterday when it be past .
`` I walk the shore for month after that , '' he say sadly , `` look to find her dear , sweet little body , but the sea never give her back to me .
But I 'll find her sometime .
I wisht I could tell you just how she look but I ca n't .
I 've see a fine silvery mist hang over the Gate at sunrise that seem like her -- and then again I 've see a white birch in the wood back yander that make me think of her .
She have pale brown hair and a little white face , and long slender finger like yours , Mary , only browner , for she be a shore girl .
Sometimes I wake up in the night and hear the sea call to me in the old way and it seem a if lose Margaret call in it .
And when there 's a storm and the wave be sob and moan I hear her lamenting among them .
And when they laugh on a gay day it 's her laugh -- lose Margaret 's sweet little laugh .
The sea take her from me but some day I 'll find her , Mary .
It ca n't keep u apart forever . ''
I have not be long at Golden Gate before I saw Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book , '' a he quaintly call it .
He need no coax to show it and he proudly give it to me to read .
It be an old leather-bound book fill with the record of his voyage and adventure .
I think what a veritable treasure trove it would be to a writer .
Every sentence be a nugget .
In itself the book have no literary merit ; Uncle Jesse 's charm of story-telling fail him when he come to pen and ink ; he could only jot down roughly the outline of his famous tale , and both spelling and grammar be sadly askew .
But I felt that if anyone possess the gift could take that simple record of a brave , adventurous life , read between the bald line the tale of danger staunchly face and duty manfully do , a wonderful story might be make from it .
Pure comedy and thrill tragedy be both lie hidden in Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book , '' wait for the touch of the magician 's hand to waken the laughter and grief and horror of thousand .
I think of my cousin , Robert Kennedy , who juggle with word in a masterly fashion , but complain that he find it hard to create incident or character .
Here be both ready to his hand , but Robert be in Japan in the interest of his paper .
In the fall , when the harbour lay black and sullen under November sky , Mother and I go back to town , part with Uncle Jesse regretfully .
We want him to visit u in town during the winter but he shake his head .
`` It 's too far away , Mary .
If lose Margaret call me I might n't hear her there .
I must be here when my time come .
It ca n't be very far off now . ''
I write often to Uncle Jesse through the winter and send him book and magazine .
He enjoy them but he think -- and truly enough -- that none of them come up to his life-book for real interest .
`` If my life-book could be take and writ by someone that know how , it would beat them holler , '' he write in one of his few letter to me .
In the spring we return joyfully to Golden Gate .
It be as golden a ever and the harbour a blue ; the wind still rollick a gaily and sweetly and the breaker boom outside the bar a of yore .
All be unchanged save Uncle Jesse .
He have age greatly and seem frail and bent .
After he have go home from his first call on u , Mother cry .
`` Uncle Jesse will soon be go to seek lost Margaret , '' she say .
In June Robert come .
I take him promptly over to see Uncle Jesse , who be very much excite when he find that Robert be a `` real writing man . ''
`` Robert want to hear some of your story , Uncle Jesse , '' I say .
`` Tell him the one about the captain who go crazy and imagine he be the Flying Dutchman . ''
This be Uncle Jesse 's best story .
It be a compound of humour and horror , and though I have hear it several time , I laugh a heartily and shiver a fearsomely over it a Robert do .
Other tale follow ; Uncle Jesse tell how his vessel have be run down by a steamer , how he have be board by Malay pirate , how his ship have catch fire , how he have help a political prisoner escape from a South American republic .
He never say a boastful word , but it be impossible to help see what a hero the man have be -- brave , true , resourceful , unselfish , skilful .
He sit there in his poor little room and make those thing live again for u .
By a lift of the eyebrow , a twist of the lip , a gesture , a word , he paint some whole scene or character so that we saw it a it be .
Finally , he lend Robert his life-book .
Robert sit up all night read it and come to the breakfast table in great excitement .
`` Mary , this be a wonderful book .
If I could take it and garb it properly -- work it up into a systematic whole and string it on the thread of Uncle Jesse 's romance of lose Margaret , it would be the novel of the year .
Do you suppose he would let me do it ? ''
`` Let you !
I think he would be delight , '' I answer .
And he be .
He be as excite a a schoolboy over it .
At last his cherished dream be to be realize and his life-book give to the world .
`` We 'll collaborate , '' say Robert .
`` You will give the soul and I the body .
Oh , we 'll write a famous book between u , Uncle Jesse .
And we 'll get right to work . ''
Uncle Jesse be a happy man that summer .
He look upon the little back room we give up to Robert for a study a a sacred shrine .
Robert talk everything over with Uncle Jesse but would not let him see the manuscript .
`` You must wait till it be publish , '' he say .
`` Then you 'll get it all at once in it best shape . ''
Robert delve into the treasure of the life-book and use them freely .
He dream and brood over lose Margaret until she become a vivid reality to him and live in his page .
As the book progress it take possession of him and he work at it with feverish eagerness .
He let me read the manuscript and criticize it ; and the conclude chapter of the book , which the critic later on be please to call idyllic , be model after my suggestion , so that I felt a if I have a share in it too .
It be autumn when the book be finish .
Robert go back to town , but Mother and I decide to stay at Golden Gate all winter .
We love the spot and , besides , I wish to remain for Uncle Jesse 's sake .
He be fail all the time , and after Robert go and the excitement of the book-making be past , he fail still more rapidly .
His tramp expedition be over and he seldom go out in his boat .
Neither do he talk a great deal .
He like to come over and sit silently for hour at our seaward window , look out wistfully toward the Gate with his swiftly whiten head lean on his hand .
The only keen interest he still have be in Robert 's book .
He wait and watch impatiently for it publication .
`` I want to live till I see it , '' he say , `` just that long -- then I 'll be ready to go .
He say it would be out in the spring -- I must hang on till it come , Mary . ''
There be time when I doubt sadly if he would `` hang on . ''
As the winter wear away he grow frailer and frailer .
But ever he look forward to the come of spring and `` the book , '' his book , transform and glorify .
One day in young April the book come at last .
Uncle Jesse have go to the post office faithfully every day for a month , expect it , but this day he be too feeble to go and I go for him .
The book be there .
It be call simply , The Life-Book of Jesse Boyd , and on the title page the name of Robert Kennedy and Jesse Boyd be print a collaborator .
I shall never forget Uncle Jesse 's face a I hand it to him .
I come away and leave him read it , oblivious to all else .
All night the light burn in his window , and I look out across the sand to it and picture the delight of the old man poring over the printed page whereon his own life be portray .
I wonder how he would like the end -- the end I have suggest .
I be never to know .
After breakfast I go over to Uncle Jesse 's house , take some little delicacy Mother have cook for him .
It be an exquisite morning , full of delicate spring tint and sound .
The harbour be sparkle and dimple like a girl , the wind be play hide and seek roguishly among the stunted fir , and the silver-flashing gull be soar over the bar .
Beyond the Gate be a shining , wonderful sea .
When I reach the little house on the point I saw the lamp still burn wanly in the window .
A quick alarm struck at my heart .
Without wait to knock , I lift the latch , and enter .
Uncle Jesse be lie on the old sofa by the window , with the book clasp to his heart .
His eye be close and on his face be a look of the most perfect peace and happiness -- the look of one who have long seek and find at last .
We could not know at what hour he have die , but somehow I think he have his wish and go out when the morning come in through the Golden Gate .
Out on that shin tide his spirit drift , over the sunrise sea of pearl and silver , to the haven where lose Margaret wait beyond the storm and calm .
The Little Black Doll Everybody in the Marshall household be excite on the evening of the concert at the Harbour Light Hotel -- everybody , even to Little Joyce , who could n't go to the concert because there be n't anybody else to stay with Denise .
Perhaps Denise be the most excited of them all -- Denise , who be slowly die of consumption in the Marshall kitchen chamber because there be no other place in the world for her to die in , or anybody to trouble about her .
Mrs. Roderick Marshall think it very good of herself to do so much for Denise .
To be sure , Denise be not much bother , and Little Joyce do most of the wait on her .
At the tea table nothing be talk of but the concert ; for be not Madame Laurin , the great French Canadian prima donna , at the hotel , and be she not go to sing ?
It be the opportunity of a lifetime -- the Marshalls would not have miss it for anything .
Stately , handsome old Grandmother Marshall be go , and Uncle Roderick and Aunt Isabella , and of course Chrissie , who be always take everywhere because she be pretty and graceful , and everything that Little Joyce be not .
Little Joyce would have like to go to the concert , for she be very fond of music ; and , besides , she want to be able to tell Denise all about it .
But when you be shy and homely and thin and awkward , your grandmother never take you anywhere .
At least , such be Little Joyce 's belief .
Little Joyce know quite well that Grandmother Marshall do not like her .
She think it be because she be so plain and awkward -- and in part it be .
Grandmother Marshall care very little for granddaughter who do not do her credit .
But Little Joyce 's mother have marry a poor man in the face of her family 's disapproval , and then both she and her husband have be inconsiderate enough to die and leave a small orphan without a penny to support her .
Grandmother Marshall fed and clothe the child , but who could make anything of such a shy creature with no gift or grace whatever ?
Grandmother Marshall have no intention of try .
Chrissie , the golden-haired and pink-cheeked , be Grandmother Marshall 's pet .
Little Joyce know this .
She do not envy Chrissie but , oh , how she wish Grandmother Marshall would love her a little , too !
Nobody love her but Denise and the little black doll .
And Little Joyce be begin to understand that Denise would not be in the kitchen chamber very much long , and the little black doll could n't tell you she love you -- although she do , of course .
Little Joyce have no doubt at all on this point .
Little Joyce sigh so deeply over this thought that Uncle Roderick smile at her .
Uncle Roderick do smile at her sometimes .
`` What be the matter , Little Joyce ? ''
he ask .
`` I be think about my black doll , '' say Little Joyce timidly .
`` Ah , your black doll .
If Madame Laurin be to see it , she 'd likely want it .
She make a hobby of collect doll all over the world , but I doubt if she have in her collection a doll that serve to amuse a little girl four thousand year ago in the court of the Pharaohs . ''
`` I think Joyce 's black doll be very ugly , '' say Chrissie .
`` My wax doll with the yellow hair be ever so much prettier . ''
`` My black doll be n't ugly , '' cry Little Joyce indignantly .
She could endure to be call ugly herself , but she could not bear to have her darling black doll call ugly .
In her excitement she upset her cup of tea over the tablecloth .
Aunt Isabella look angry , and Grandmother Marshall say sharply : `` Joyce , leave the table .
You grow more awkward and careless every day . ''
Little Joyce , on the verge of tear , creep away and go up the kitchen stairs to Denise to be comfort .
But Denise herself have be cry .
She lay on her little bed by the low window , where the glow of the sunset be come in ; her hollow cheek be scarlet with fever .
`` Oh !
I want so much to hear Madame Laurin sing , '' she sob .
`` I feel lak I could die easy if I hear her sing just one leetle song .
She be Frenchwoman , too , and she sing all de ole French song -- de ole song my mudder sing long ` go .
Oh !
I so want to hear Madame Laurin sing . ''
`` But you ca n't , dear Denise , '' say Little Joyce very softly , stroke Denise 's hot forehead with her cool , slender hand .
Little Joyce have very pretty hand , only nobody have ever notice them .
`` You be not strong enough to go to the concert .
I 'll sing for you , if you like .
Of course , I ca n't sing very well , but I 'll do my best . ''
`` You sing lak a sweet bird , but you be not Madame Laurin , '' say Denise restlessly .
`` It be de great Madame I want to hear .
I haf not long to live .
Oh , I know , Leetle Joyce -- I know what de doctor look lak -- and I want to hear Madame Laurin sing ` fore I die .
I know it be impossible -- but I long for it so -- just one leetle song . ''
Denise put her thin hand over her face and sob again .
Little Joyce go and sit down by the window , look out into the white birch .
Her heart ache bitterly .
Dear Denise be go to die soon -- oh , very soon !
Little Joyce , wise and know beyond her year , saw that .
And Denise want to hear Madame Laurin sing .
It seem a foolish thing to think of , but Little Joyce think hard about it ; and when she have finish thinking , she get her little black doll and take it to bed with her , and there she cry herself to sleep .
At the breakfast table next morning the Marshalls talk about the concert and the wonderful Madame Laurin .
Little Joyce listen in her usual silence ; her cry the night before have not improve her look any .
Never , think handsome Grandmother Marshall , have she appear so sallow and homely .
Really , Grandmother Marshall could not have the patience to look at her .
She decide that she would not take Joyce drive with her and Chrissie that afternoon , a she have think of , after all .
In the forenoon it be discover that Denise be much bad , and the doctor be send for .
He come , and shake his head , that be really all he could do under the circumstance .
When he go away , he be waylay at the back door by a small gypsy with big , black , serious eye and long black hair .
`` Is Denise go to die ? ''
Little Joyce ask in the blunt , straightforward fashion Grandmother Marshall find so try .
The doctor look at her from under his shaggy brow and decide that here be one of the people to whom you might as well tell the truth first a last , because they be bind to have it .
`` Yes , '' he say .
`` Soon ? ''
`` Very soon , I 'm afraid .
In a few day at most . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Little Joyce gravely .
She go to her room and do something with the black doll .
She do not cry , but if you could have see her face you would have wish she would cry .
After dinner Grandmother Marshall and Chrissie drive away , and Uncle Roderick and Aunt Isabella go away , too .
Little Joyce creep up to the kitchen chamber .
Denise be lie in an uneasy sleep , with tear stain on her face .
Then Little Joyce tiptoe down and speed away to the hotel .
She do not know just what she would say or do when she get there , but she think hard all the way to the end of the shore road .
When she come out to the shore , a lady be sit alone on a big rock -- a lady with a dark , beautiful face and wonderful eye .
Little Joyce stop before her and look at her meditatively .
Perhaps it would be well to ask advice of this lady .
`` If you please , '' say Little Joyce , who be never shy with stranger , for whose opinion she do n't care at all , `` I want to see Madame Laurin at the hotel and ask her to do me a very great favour .
Will you tell me the best way to go about see her ?
I shall be much oblige to you . ''
`` What be the favour you want to ask of Madame Laurin ? ''
inquire the lady , smile .
`` I want to ask her if she will come and sing for Denise before she die -- before Denise die , I mean .
Denise be our French girl , and the doctor say she can not live very long , and she wish with all her heart to hear Madame Laurin sing .
It be very bitter , you know , to be die and want something very much and not be able to get it . ''
`` Do you think Madame Laurin will go ? ''
ask the lady .
`` I do n't know .
I be go to offer her my little black doll .
If she will not come for that , there be nothing else I can do . ''
A flash of interest light up the lady 's brown eye .
She bend forward .
`` Is it your doll you have in that box ?
Will you let me see it ? ''
Little Joyce nod .
Mutely she open the box and take out the black doll .
The lady give an exclamation of amazed delight and almost snatch it from Little Joyce .
It be a very peculiar little doll indeed , carve out of some black polished wood .
`` Child , where in the world do you get this ? ''
she cry .
`` Father get it out of a grave in Egypt , '' say Little Joyce .
`` It be bury with the mummy of a little girl who live four thousand year ago , Uncle Roderick say .
She must have love her doll very much to have have it buried with her , must n't she ?
But she could not have love it any more than I do . ''
`` And yet you be go to give it away ? ''
say the lady , look at her keenly .
`` For Denise 's sake , '' explain Little Joyce .
`` I would do anything for Denise because I love her and she love me .
When the only person in the world who love you be go to die , there be nothing you would not do for her if you could .
Denise be so good to me before she take sick .
She use to kiss me and play with me and make little cake for me and tell me beautiful story . ''
The lady put the little black doll back in the box .
Then she stand up and hold out her hand .
`` Come , '' she say .
`` I be Madame Laurin , and I shall go and sing for Denise . ''
Little Joyce pilot Madame Laurin home and into the kitchen and up the back stair to the kitchen chamber -- a proceeding which would have fill Aunt Isabella with horror if she have know .
But Madame Laurin do not seem to mind , and Little Joyce never think about it at all .
It be Little Joyce 's awkward , unMarshall-like fashion to go to a place by the short way there , even if it be up the kitchen stair .
Madame Laurin stand in the bare little room and look pityingly at the wasted , wistful face on the pillow .
`` This be Madame Laurin , and she be go to sing for you , Denise , '' whisper Little Joyce .
Denise 's face light up , and she clasp her hand .
`` If you please , '' she say faintly .
`` A French song , Madame -- de ole French song dey sing long ` go . ''
Then do Madame Laurin sing .
Never have that kitchen chamber be so fill with glorious melody .
Song after song she sing -- the old folklore song of the habitant , the song perhaps that Evangeline listen to in her childhood .
Little Joyce knelt by the bed , her eye on the singer like one entranced .
Denise lay with her face full of joy and rapture -- such joy and rapture !
Little Joyce do not regret the sacrifice of her black doll -- never could regret it , as long a she remember Denise 's look .
`` T'ank you , Madame , '' say Denise brokenly , when Madame cease .
`` Dat be so beautiful -- de angel , dey can not sing more sweet .
I love music so much , Madame .
Leetle Joyce , she sing to me often and often -- she sing sweet , but not lak you -- oh , not lak you . ''
`` Little Joyce must sing for me , '' say Madame , smile , a she sit down by the window .
`` I always like to hear fresh , childish voice .
Will you , Little Joyce ? ''
`` Oh , yes . ''
Little Joyce be quite unembarrassed and perfectly willing to do anything she could for this wonderful woman who have bring that look to Denise 's face .
`` I will sing as well a I can for you .
Of course , I ca n't sing very well and I do n't know anything but hymn .
I always sing hymn for Denise , although she be a Catholic and the hymn be Protestant .
But her priest tell her it be all right , because all music be of God .
Denise 's priest be a very nice man , and I like him .
He think my little black doll -- your little black doll -- be splendid .
I 'll sing ` Lead , Kindly Light . '
That be Denise 's favourite hymn . ''
Then Little Joyce , slip her hand into Denise 's , begin to sing .
At the first note Madame Laurin , who have be gaze out of the window with a rather listless smile , turn quickly and look at Little Joyce with amazed eye .
Delight follow amazement , and when Little Joyce have finish , the great Madame rise impulsively , her face and eye glow , step swiftly to Little Joyce and take the thin dark face between her gemmed hand .
`` Child , do you know what a wonderful voice you have -- what a marvellous voice ?
It be -- it be -- I never hear such a voice in a child of your age .
Mine be nothing to it -- nothing at all .
You will be a great singer some day -- far great than I -- yes .
But you must have the training .
Where be your parent ?
I must see them . ''
`` I have no parent , '' say the bewildered Little Joyce .
`` I belong to Grandmother Marshall , and she be out drive . ''
`` Then I shall wait until your Grandmother Marshall come home from her drive , '' say Madame Laurin decidedly .
Half an hour later a very much surprise old lady be listen to Madame Laurin 's enthusiastic statement .
`` How be it I have never hear you sing , if you can sing so well ? ''
ask Grandmother Marshall , look at Little Joyce with something in her eye that have never be in them before -- a Little Joyce instantly felt to the core of her sensitive soul .
But Little Joyce hang her head .
It have never occur to her to sing in Grandmother Marshall 's presence .
`` This child must be train by-and-by , '' say Madame Laurin .
`` If you can not afford it , Mrs. Marshall , I will see to it .
Such a voice must not be waste . ''
`` Thank you , Madame Laurin , '' say Grandmother Marshall with a gracious dignity , `` but I be quite able to give my granddaughter all the necessary advantage for the development of her gift .
And I thank you very much for tell me of it . ''
Madame Laurin bent and kiss Little Joyce 's brown cheek .
`` Little gypsy , good-by .
But come every day to this hotel to see me .
And next summer I shall be back .
I like you -- because some day you will be a great singer and because today you be a loving , unselfish baby . ''
`` You have forget the little black doll , Madame , '' say Little Joyce gravely .
Madame throw up her hand , laugh .
`` No , no , I shall not take your little black doll of the four thousand year .
Keep it for a mascot .
A great singer always need a mascot .
But do not , I command you , take it out of the box till I be go , for if I be to see it again , I might not be able to resist the temptation .
Some day I shall show you my doll , but there be not such a gem among them . ''
When Madame Laurin have go , Grandmother Marshall look at Little Joyce .
`` Come to my room , Joyce .
I want to see if we can not find a more become way of arrange your hair .
It have grow so thick and long .
I have no idea how thick and long .
Yes , we must certainly find a good way than that stiff braid .
Come ! ''
Little Joyce , take Grandmother Marshall 's extended hand , felt very happy .
She realize that this strange , stately old lady , who never like little girl unless they be pretty or graceful or clever , be begin to love her at last .
The Man on the Train When the telegram come from William George , Grandma Sheldon be all alone with Cyrus and Louise .
And Cyrus and Louise , age respectively twelve and eleven , be not very much good , Grandma think , when it come to advise what be to be do .
Grandma be `` all in a flutter , dear , oh dear , '' a she say .
The telegram say that Delia , William George 's wife , be seriously ill down at Green Village , and William George want Samuel to bring Grandma down immediately .
Delia have always think there be nobody like Grandma when it come to nurse sick folk .
But Samuel and his wife be both away -- have be away for two day and intend to be away for five more .
They have drive to Sinclair , twenty mile away , to visit with Mrs. Samuel 's folk for a week .
`` Dear , oh dear , what shall I do ? ''
say Grandma .
`` Go right to Green Village on the evening train , '' say Cyrus briskly .
`` Dear , oh dear , and leave you two alone ! ''
cry Grandma .
`` Louise and I will do very well until tomorrow , '' say Cyrus sturdily .
`` We will send word to Sinclair by today 's mail , and Father and Mother will be home by tomorrow night . ''
`` But I never be on the car in my life , '' protest Grandma nervously .
`` I 'm -- I 'm so frighten to start alone .
And you never know what kind of people you may meet on the train . ''
`` You 'll be all right , Grandma .
I 'll drive you to the station , get you your ticket , and put you on the train .
Then you 'll have nothing to do until the train get to Green Village .
I 'll send a telegram to Uncle William George to meet you . ''
`` I shall fall and break my neck get off the train , '' say Grandma pessimistically .
But she be wonder at the same time whether she have well take the black valise or the yellow , and whether William George would be likely to have plenty of flaxseed in the house .
It be six mile to the station , and Cyrus drive Grandma over in time to catch a train that reach Green Village at nine o'clock .
`` Dear , oh dear , '' say Grandma , `` what if William George 's folk ai n't there to meet me ?
It 's all very well , Cyrus , to say that they will be there , but you do n't know .
And it 's all very well to say not to be nervous because everything will be all right .
If you be seventy-five year old and have never set foot on the car in your life you 'd be nervous too , and you ca n't be sure that everything will be all right .
You never know what sort of people you 'll meet on the train .
I may get on the wrong train or lose my ticket or get carry past Green Village or get my pocket pick .
Well , no , I wo n't do that , for not one cent will I carry with me .
You shall take back home all the money you do n't need to get my ticket .
Then I shall be easy in my mind .
Dear , oh dear , if it be n't that Delia be so seriously ill I would n't go one step . ''
`` Oh , you 'll be all right , Grandma , '' assure Cyrus .
He get Grandma 's ticket for her and Grandma tie it up in the corner of her handkerchief .
Then the train come in and Grandma , cling closely to Cyrus , be put on it .
Cyrus find a comfortable seat for her and shake hand cheerily .
`` Good-bye , Grandma .
Do n't be frighten .
Here 's the Weekly Argus .
I get it at the store .
You may like to look over it . ''
Then Cyrus be go , and in a minute the station house and platform begin to glide away .
Dear , oh dear , what have happen to it ?
think Grandma in dismay .
The next moment she exclaim aloud , `` Why , it 's u that 's move , not it ! ''
Some of the passenger smile pleasantly at Grandma .
She be the variety of old lady at which people do smile pleasantly ; a grandma with round , pink cheek , soft , brown eye , and lovely snow-white curl be a nice person to look at wherever she be find .
After a while Grandma , to her amazement , discover that she like rid on the car .
It be not at all the disagreeable experience she have expect it to be .
Why , she be just as comfortable a if she be in her own rocking chair at home !
And there be such a lot of people to look at , and many of the lady have such beautiful dress and hat .
After all , the people you meet on a train , think Grandma , be surprisingly like the people you meet off it .
If it have not be for wonder how she would get off at Green Village , Grandma would have enjoy herself thoroughly .
Four or five station far on the train halt at a lonely-looking place consisting of the station house and a barn , surround by scrub wood and blueberry barren .
One passenger get on and , find only one vacant seat in the crowded car , sit right down beside Grandma Sheldon .
Grandma Sheldon hold her breath while she look him over .
Was he a pickpocket ?
He do n't appear like one , but you can never be sure of the people you meet on the train .
Grandma remember with a sigh of thankfulness that she have no money .
Besides , he seem really very respectable and harmless .
He be quietly dress in a suit of dark-blue serge with a black overcoat .
He wear his hat well down on his forehead and be clean shaven .
His hair be very black , but his eye be blue -- nice eye , Grandma think .
She always felt great confidence in a man who have bright , open , blue eye .
Grandpa Sheldon , who have die so long ago , four year after their marriage , have have bright blue eye .
To be sure , he have fair hair , reflect Grandma .
It 's real odd to see such black hair with such light blue eye .
Well , he 's real nice look , and I do n't believe there 's a mite of harm in him .
The early autumn night have now fall and Grandma could not amuse herself by watch the scenery .
She bethink herself of the paper Cyrus have give her and take it out of her basket .
It be an old weekly a fortnight back .
On the first page be a long account of a murder case with scare head , and into this Grandma plunge eagerly .
Sweet old Grandma Sheldon , who would not have harm a fly and hat to see even a mousetrap set , simply revel in the newspaper account of murder .
And the more shocking and cold-blooded they be , the more eagerly do Grandma read of them .
This murder story be particularly good from Grandma 's point of view ; it be full of `` thrill . ''
A man have be shoot down , apparently in cold blood , and his supposed murderer be still at large and have elude all the effort of justice to capture him .
His name be Mark Hartwell , and he be describe a a tall , fair man , with full auburn beard and curly , light hair .
`` What a shocking thing ! ''
say Grandma aloud .
Her companion look at her with a kindly , amuse smile .
`` What be it ? ''
he ask .
`` Why , this murder at Charlotteville , '' answer Grandma , forgetting , in her excitement , that it be not safe to talk to people you meet on the train .
`` It just make my blood run cold to read about it .
And to think that the man who do it be still around the country somewhere -- plot other murder , I have n't a doubt .
What be the good of the police ? ''
`` They 're dull fellow , '' agree the dark man .
`` But I do n't envy that man his conscience , '' say Grandma solemnly -- and somewhat inconsistently , in view of her statement about the other murder that be be plot .
`` What must a man feel like who have the blood of a fellow creature on his hand ?
Depend upon it , his punishment have begin already , catch or not . ''
`` That be true , '' say the dark man quietly .
`` Such a good-looking man too , '' say Grandma , look wistfully at the murderer 's picture .
`` It do n't seem possible that he can have kill anybody .
But the paper say there be n't a doubt . ''
`` He be probably guilty , '' say the dark man , `` but nothing be know of his provocation .
The affair may not have be so cold-blooded a the account state .
Those newspaper fellows never err on the side of undercolouring . ''
`` I really think , '' say Grandma slowly , `` that I would like to see a murderer -- just one .
Whenever I say anything like that , Adelaide -- Adelaide be Samuel 's wife -- look at me a if she think there be something wrong about me .
And perhaps there be , but I do , all the same .
When I be a little girl , there be a man in our settlement who be suspect of poison his wife .
She die very suddenly .
I use to look at him with such interest .
But it be n't satisfactory , because you could never be sure whether he be really guilty or not .
I never could believe that he be , because he be such a nice man in some way and so good and kind to child .
I do n't believe a man who be bad enough to poison his wife could have any good in him . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' agree the dark man .
He have absent-mindedly fold up Grandma 's old copy of the Argus and put it in his pocket .
Grandma do not like to ask him for it , although she would have like to see if there be any more murder story in it .
Besides , just at that moment the conductor come around for ticket .
Grandma look in the basket for her handkerchief .
It be not there .
She look on the floor and on the seat and under the seat .
It be not there .
She stand up and shake herself -- still no handkerchief .
`` Dear , oh dear , '' exclaim Grandma wildly , `` I 've lose my ticket -- I always know I would -- I tell Cyrus I would !
Oh , where can it be ? ''
The conductor scowl unsympathetically .
The dark man get up and help Grandma search , but no ticket be to be find .
`` You 'll have to pay the money then , and something extra , '' say the conductor gruffly .
`` I ca n't -- I have n't a cent of money , '' wail Grandma .
`` I give it all to Cyrus because I be afraid my pocket would be pick .
Oh , what shall I do ? ''
`` Do n't worry .
I 'll make it all right , '' say the dark man .
He take out his pocketbook and hand the conductor a bill .
That functionary grumblingly make the change and march onward , while Grandma , pale with excitement and relief , sink back into her seat .
`` I ca n't tell you how much I be oblige to you , sir , '' she say tremulously .
`` I do n't know what I should have do .
Would he have put me off right here in the snow ? ''
`` I hardly think he would have go to such length , '' say the dark man with a smile .
`` But he 's a cranky , disoblige fellow enough -- I know him of old .
And you must not feel overly grateful to me .
I be glad of the opportunity to help you .
I have an old grandmother myself once , '' he add with a sigh .
`` You must give me your name and address , of course , '' say Grandma , `` and my son -- Samuel Sheldon of Midverne -- will see that the money be return to you .
Well , this be a lesson to me !
I 'll never trust myself on a train again , and all I wish be that I be safely off this one .
This fuss have work my nerve all up again . ''
`` Do n't worry , Grandma .
I 'll see you safely off the train when we get to Green Village . ''
`` Will you , though ?
Will you , now ? ''
say Grandma eagerly .
`` I 'll be real easy in my mind , then , '' she add with a return smile .
`` I feel a if I could trust you for anything -- and I 'm a real suspicious person too . ''
They have a long talk after that -- or , rather , Grandma talk and the dark man listen and smile .
She tell him all about William George and Delia and their baby and about Samuel and Adelaide and Cyrus and Louise and the three cat and the parrot .
He seem to enjoy her account of them too .
When they reach Green Village station he gather up Grandma 's parcel and help her tenderly off the train .
`` Anybody here to meet Mrs. Sheldon ? ''
he ask of the station master .
The latter shook his head .
`` Do n't think so .
Have n't see anybody here to meet anybody tonight . ''
`` Dear , oh dear , '' say poor Grandma .
`` This be just what I expect .
They 've never get Cyrus 's telegram .
Well , I might have know it .
What shall I do ? ''
`` How far be it to your son 's ? ''
ask the dark man .
`` Only half a mile -- just over the hill there .
But I 'll never get there alone this dark night . ''
`` Of course not .
But I 'll go with you .
The road be good -- we 'll do finely . ''
`` But that train wo n't wait for you , '' gasp Grandma , half in protest .
`` It do n't matter .
The Starmont freight pass here in half an hour and I 'll go on her .
Come along , Grandma . ''
`` Oh , but you 're good , '' say Grandma .
`` Some woman be proud to have you for a son . ''
The man do not answer .
He have not answer any of the personal remark Grandma have make to him in her conversation .
They be not long in reach William George Sheldon 's house , for the village road be good and Grandma be smart on her foot .
She be welcome with eagerness and surprise .
`` To think that there be no one to meet you ! ''
exclaim William George .
`` But I never dream of your come by train , know how you be set against it .
Telegram ?
No , I get no telegram .
S'pose Cyrus forget to send it .
I 'm most heartily oblige to you , sir , for look after my mother so kindly . ''
`` It be a pleasure , '' say the dark man courteously .
He have take off his hat , and they saw a curious scar , shape like a large , red butterfly , high up on his forehead under his hair .
`` I be delight to have be of any assistance to her . ''
He would not wait for supper -- the next train would be in and he must not miss it .
`` There be people look for me , '' he say with his curious smile .
`` They will be much disappoint if they do not find me . ''
He have go , and the whistle of the Starmont freight have blow before Grandma remember that he have not give her his name and address .
`` Dear , oh dear , how be we ever go to send that money to him ? ''
she exclaim .
`` And he so nice and goodhearted ! ''
Grandma worry over this for a week in the interval of look after Delia .
One day William George come in with a large city daily in his hand .
He look curiously at Grandma and then show her the front-page picture of a man , clean-shaven , with an oddly shaped scar high up on his forehead .
`` Did you ever see that man , Mother ? ''
he ask .
`` Of course I do , '' say Grandma excitedly .
`` Why , it 's the man I meet on the train .
Who be he ?
What be his name ?
Now , we 'll know where to send -- '' `` That be Mark Hartwell , who shoot Amos Gray at Charlotteville three week ago , '' say William George quietly .
Grandma look at him blankly for a moment .
`` It could n't be , '' she gasp at last .
`` That man a murderer !
I 'll never believe it ! ''
`` It 's true enough , Mother .
The whole story be here .
He have shave his beard and dye his hair and come near get clear out of the country .
They be on his trail the day he come down in the train with you and lose it because of his get off to bring you here .
His disguise be so perfect that there be little fear of his be recognize so long a he hide that scar .
But it be see in Montreal and he be run to earth there .
He have make a full confession . ''
`` I do n't care , '' cry Grandma valiantly .
`` I 'll never believe he be all bad -- a man who would do what he do for a poor old woman like me , when he be fly for his life too .
No , no , there be good in him even if he do kill that man .
And I 'm sure he must feel terrible over it . ''
In this view Grandma persist .
She never would say or listen to a word against Mark Hartwell , and she have only pity for him whom everyone else condemn .
With her own trembling hand she write him a letter to accompany the money Samuel send before Hartwell be take to the penitentiary for life .
She thank him again for his kindness to her and assure him that she know he be sorry for what he have do and that she would pray for him every night of her life .
Mark Hartwell have be hard and defiant enough , but the prison official tell that he cry like a child over Grandma Sheldon 's little letter .
`` There 's nobody all bad , '' say Grandma when she relate the story .
`` I use to believe a murderer must be , but I know well now .
I think of that poor man often and often .
He be so kind and gentle to me -- he must have be a good boy once .
I write him a letter every Christmas and I send him tract and paper .
He 's my own little charity .
But I 've never be on the car since and I never will be again .
You never can tell what will happen to you or what sort of people you 'll meet if you trust yourself on a train . ''
The Romance of Jedediah Jedediah be not a name that savour of romance .
His last name be Crane , which be little well .
And it would be no use to call this story `` Mattie Adams 's Romance '' because Mattie Adams be not a romantic name either .
But name have really nothing to do with romance .
The most exciting and tragic affair I ever know be between a man name Silas Putdammer and a woman name Kezia Cullen -- which have nothing to do with the present story .
Jedediah , to all outward seeming , do not appear to be any more romantic than his name .
He look distinctly commonplace a he ride comfortably along the winding country road that be dream in the haze and sunshine of a midsummer afternoon .
He be perch on the seat of a bright red pedlar 's wagon , above and behind a dusty , amble , red pony of that peculiar gait and appearance pertaining to the pony of country pedlar -- a certain placid , unhasting leanness , a of a nag that have encounter trouble of his own and have live them down by sheer patience and stay power .
From the bright red wagon proceed a certain metallic rumbling and clinking a it bowl along , and two or three nest of tin pan on it flat rope-encircled top flash back the light so dazzlingly that Jedediah seem the beam sun of a little planetary system all his own .
A new broom stick up aggressively at each of the four corner give the wagon a resemblance to a triumphal chariot .
Jedediah himself have not be in the tin-peddling business long enough to acquire the apologetic , out-at-elbows appearance which distinguish a tin pedlar from other kind of pedlar .
In fact , this be his maiden venture in this line ; hence he still look plump and self-respecting .
He have a round red face under his plug hat , twinkle blue eye , and a little pursed-up mouth , the shape of which be partly due to nature and partly to much whistling .
Jedediah 's pudgy body be clothe in a suit of large , light check , and he wear a bright pink necktie and an amethyst pin .
Will I still be believe when I assert that , in spite of all this , Jedediah be full of , and bubble over with , romance ?
Romance care not for appearance and apparently delight in contradiction .
The homely shamble man you pass unnoticed on the street may have , tuck away in his past , a story more exciting and thrill than anything you have ever read in fiction .
So it be , in a measure , with Jedediah ; poor , unknown to fame , afflict with a double chin and bald spot , reduce to drive a tin-wagon for a living , he yet have his romance and he be still romantic .
As Jedediah ride through Amberley he look about him with interest .
He know it well , although it be fifteen year since he have see it .
He have be bear and bring up in Amberley ; he have leave it at the age of twenty-five to make his fortune .
But Amberley be Amberley still .
Jedediah find it hard to believe that it or himself be fifteen year older .
`` There 's the Stanton place , '' he say .
`` Charlie have paint the house yellow -- it use to be white ; and Bob Hollman have cut the tree down behind the blacksmith forge .
Bob never have any poetry in his soul -- no romance , a you might say .
He be what you might call a plodder -- you might call him that .
Get up , my nag , get up .
There 's the old Harkness place -- seem to be spruce up considerable .
Folks use to say if ye want to see how the world look the morning after the flood just go into George Harkness 's barn-yard on a rainy day .
The pond and the old hill ai n't change any .
Get up , my nag , get up .
There 's the Adams homestead .
Do I really behold it again ? ''
Jedediah think the moment deliciously romantic .
He revel in it and , to match his exhilarated mood , he touch the pony with his whip and go clink and glitter down the hill under the poplar at a dash rate .
He have not intend to offer his ware in Amberley that day .
He mean to break the ice in Occidental , the village beyond .
But he could not pass the Adams place .
When he come to the open gate he turn in under the willow and drive down the wide , shady lane , girt on both side with a trim white paling smother in lavish sweetbriar bush that be gay with bloom .
Jedediah 's heart be beat furiously under his check .
`` What a fool you be , Jed Crane , '' he tell himself .
`` You use to be a young fool , and now you 're an old one .
Sad , that !
Get up , my nag , get up .
It 's a poor lookout for a man of your year , Jed .
Do n't get excite .
It ai n't the least likely that Mattie Adams be here yet .
She 's married and go year ago , no doubt .
It 's probable there 's no Adamses here at all now .
But it 's romantic , yes , it 's romantic .
It 's splendid .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
The Adams place itself be not unromantic .
The house be a large , old-fashioned white one , with green shutter and a front porch with Grecian column .
These be think very elegant in Amberley .
Mrs. Carmody say they give a house such a classical air .
In this instance the classical effect be somewhat smother in honeysuckle , which riot over the whole porch and hung in pale yellow , fragrant festoon over the row of potted scarlet geranium that flank the green step .
Beyond the house a low-boughed orchard cover the slope between it and the main road , and behind it there be a revel of colour betoken a flower garden .
Jedediah climb down from his lofty seat and walk dubiously to a side door that look more friendly , despite it prim screen , than the classical front porch .
As he draw near he saw a woman sit behind the screen -- a woman who rise a he approach and open the door .
Jedediah 's heart have be beat a wild tattoo a he cross the yard .
It now stop altogether -- at least he declare in late year it do .
The woman be Mattie Adams -- Mattie Adams fifteen year old than when he have see her last , plump , rosy , somewhat broader-faced , but still unmistakably Mattie Adams .
Jedediah felt that the situation be delicious .
`` Mattie , '' he say , hold out his hand .
`` Why , Jed , how be you ? ''
say Mattie , a if they have part the week before .
It have always take a great deal to disturb Mattie .
Whatever happen she be calm .
Even an old lover , and the only one she have ever possess at that , dropping , so to speak , from the sky , after fifteen year ' disappearance , do not ruffle her placidity .
`` I do n't suppose you 'd know me , Mattie , '' say Jedediah , still hold her hand foolishly .
`` I know you the minute I set eye on you , '' return Mattie .
`` You 're some fatter and old -- like myself -- but you 're Jed still .
Where have you be all these year ? ''
`` Pretty near everywhere , Mattie -- pretty near everywhere .
And ye see what it 's come to -- here I be drive a tin-wagon for Boone Brothers .
Business be business -- do n't you want to buy some new tinware ? ''
To himself , Jed think it be romantic , ask a woman whom he have love all his life to buy tin on the occasion of their first meeting after fifteen year ' separation .
`` I do n't know but I do want a quart measure , '' say Mattie , in her sweet , unchanged voice , `` but all in good time .
You must stay and have tea with me , Jed .
I 'm all alone now -- Mother and Father have go .
Unhitch your horse and put him in the third stall in the stable . ''
Jed hesitate .
`` I ought to be get on , I s ` pose , '' he say wistfully .
`` I hai n't do much today -- '' `` You must stay to tea , '' interrupt Mattie .
`` Why , Jed , there 's ever so much to tell and ask .
And we ca n't stand here in the yard and talk .
Look at Selena .
There she be , watch u from the kitchen window .
She 'll watch as long a we stand here . ''
Jed swing himself around .
Over the little valley below the Adams homestead be a steep , treeless hill , and on it crest be perch a bare farmhouse with window stick lavishly all over it .
At one of them a long , pale face be visible .
`` Has Selena be paste up at that window ever since the last time we stand here and talk , Mattie ? ''
ask Jed , half resentfully , half amusedly .
It be characteristic of Mattie to laugh first at the question , and then blush over the memory it revive .
`` Most of the time , I guess , '' she say shortly .
`` But come -- come in .
I never could talk under Selena 's eye , even if they be four hundred yard away . ''
Jed go in and stay to tea .
The old Adams pantry have not fail , nor apparently the Adams skill in cooking .
After tea Jed hung around till sunset and drive away with a warm invitation from Mattie to call every time his round take him through Amberley .
As he go , Selena 's face appear at the window of the house over the valley .
When he have go Mattie go around to the classical porch and sit herself down under the honeysuckle festoon that dangle above her smooth braid of fawn-coloured hair .
She know Selena would be down posthaste presently , agog with curiosity to find out who the pedlar be whom Mattie have delight to honour with an invitation to tea .
Mattie prefer to meet Selena out of door .
It be easy to thrust and parry there .
Meanwhile , she want to think over thing .
Fifteen year before Jedediah Crane have be Mattie Adams 's beau .
Jedediah be romantic even then , but , a he be a slim young fellow at the time , with an abundance of fair , curly hair and innocent blue eye , his romance be rather an attraction than not .
At least the then young and pretty Mattie have find it so .
The Adamses look with no favour on the match .
They be a thrifty , well-to-do folk .
As for the Cranes -- well , they be lazy and shiftless , for the most part .
It would be a mésalliance for an Adams to marry a Crane .
Still , it would doubtless have happen -- for Mattie , though a meek-looking damsel , have a mind of her own -- have it not be for Selena Ford , Mattie 's old sister .
Selena , people say , have marry James Ford for no other reason than that his house command a view of nearly every dooryard in Amberley .
This may or may not have be sheer malice .
Certainly nothing that go on in the Adams yard escape Selena .
She watch Mattie and Jed in the moonlight one night .
She saw Jed kiss Mattie .
It be the first time he have ever do so -- and the last , poor fellow .
For Selena swoop down on her parent the next day .
Such a storm do she brew up that Mattie be forbid to speak to Jed again .
Selena herself give Jed a piece of her mind .
Jed usually be not afflict with undue sensitiveness .
But he have some slumbering pride at the basis of his character and it be very stubborn when rouse .
Selena rouse it .
Jed vow he would never creep and crawl at the foot of the Adamses , and he go west forthwith , determine , a aforesaid , to make his fortune and hurl Selena 's scorn back in her face .
And now he have come home , drive a tin-wagon .
Mattie smile to think of it .
She bore Jed no ill will for his failure .
She felt sorry for him and incline to think that fate have use him hardly -- fate and Selena together .
Mattie have never have another beau .
People think she be engage to Jed Crane until her time for beau go by .
Mattie do not mind ; she have never like anybody so well a Jed .
To be sure , she have not think of him for year .
It be strange he should come back like this -- `` romantic , '' a he say himself .
Mattie 's reverie be interrupt by Selena .
Angular , pale-eyed Mrs. Ford be a unlike the plump , rosy Mattie a a sister could be .
Perhaps her chronic curiosity , which would not let her rest , be accountable for her excessive leanness .
`` Who be that pedlar that be here this afternoon , Mattie ? ''
she demand as soon a she arrive .
Mattie smile .
`` Jed Crane , '' she say .
`` He 's home from the West and drive a tin-wagon for the Boones . ''
Selena give a little gasp .
She sit down on the low step and untie her bonnet string .
`` Mattie Adams !
And you keep him hang about the whole afternoon . ''
`` Why not ? ''
say Mattie wickedly .
She like to alarm Selena .
`` Jed and I be always beaus , you know . ''
`` Mattie Adams !
You do n't mean to say you 're go to make a fool of yourself over Jed Crane again ?
A woman of your age ! ''
`` Do n't get excite , Selena , '' implore Mattie .
In the old day Selena could cow her , but that time be past .
`` I never saw the like of you for get stir up over nothing . ''
`` I 'm not excite .
I 'm perfectly calm .
But I might well be excite over your folly , Mattie Adams .
The idea of your take up again with old Jed Crane ! ''
`` He 's fifteen year young than Jim , '' say Mattie , give thrust for thrust .
When Selena have come over Mattie have not the slight idea of resume her former relationship with the romantic Jedediah .
She have merely show him kindness for old friendship 's sake .
But so well do the unconscious Selena work in Jed 's behalf that when she flounce off home in a pet Mattie be resolve that she would take Jed back if he want to come .
She be n't go to put up with Selena 's everlasting interference .
She would show her that she be independent .
When a week have pass Jed come again .
He sell Mattie a stew-pan and he would not go in to tea this time , but they stand and talk in the yard for the best part of an hour , while Selena glare at them from her kitchen window .
Their conversation be most innocent and harmless , be mainly gossip about what have come and go during Jed 's exile .
But Mattie know that Selena think that she and Jed be make love to each other in this shameless , public fashion .
When Jed go , Mattie , more for Selena 's benefit than his , break off some spray of honeysuckle and pin them on his coat .
The fragrance go with Jedediah a he drive through Amberley , and pleasant thought be bear of it .
`` It 's romantic , '' he tell the pony .
`` Blessed if it ai n't romantic !
Not that Mattie care anything about me now .
I know she do n't .
But it 's just her kind way .
She want to cheer me up and let me know I 've a friend still .
Get up , my nag , get up .
I ai n't one to persoom on her kindness neither ; I know my place .
But still , say what you will , it 's romantic -- this sitooation .
This be it .
Here I be , love the ground she walk on , a I 've always do , and I ca n't let on that I do because I 'm a poor ne'er - do-well a ai n't fit to look at her , an independent woman with property .
And she 's a-showing kindness to me for old time ' sake , and pierce my heart all the time , not know .
Why , it 's romance with a vengeance , that 's what it be .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
Thereafter Jed call at the Adams place every week .
Generally he stay to tea .
Mattie always buy something of him to colour an excuse .
Her kitchen fairly glitter with new tinware .
She give Selena the overflow by way of heap coal of fire .
After every visit Jedediah hold stern counsel with himself and decide that he must not call to see Mattie again -- at least , not for a long time ; then he must not stay to tea .
He would struggle with himself all the way down the poplar hill -- not without a comfort sense of the romance of the struggle -- but it always end the same way .
He turn in under the willow and clink musically into Mattie 's yard .
At least , the rattle of the tin-wagon sound musically to Mattie .
Meanwhile , Selena watch from her window and rag .
Amberley people shrug their shoulder when gossip noise the matter abroad .
But , be good-humoured in the main , they forebore to do more than say that Mattie Adams be free to make a goose of herself if it please her , and that Jed Crane be n't such a fool a he look .
The Adams farm be one of the best in Amberley , and it have not grow any poor under Mattie 's management .
`` If Jed walk in there and hang up his hat he 'll have do well for himself after all . ''
This be Selena 's view of it also , bar the good nature .
She be furious at the whole affair , and she do her best to make Mattie 's life a burden to her with slur and thrust .
But they all misjudge Jed .
He have no intention of `` walk in and hang up his hat '' -- or try to .
Romantic a he be , it never occur to him that Mattie might be as romantic a himself .
She do not care for him , and anyhow he , Jed , have a little too much pride to ask her , a rich woman , to marry him , a poor man who have lose all caste he ever possess by take up tin-peddling .
Jed be determine not to `` persoom . ''
And , oh , how deliciously romantic it all be !
He hug himself with sorrowful delight over it .
As the summer wan and the long yellow leaf begin to fall thickly from the willow in the Adams lane Jed begin to talk of go out west again .
Tin-peddling be not possible in winter , and he do n't think he would try it another summer .
Mattie listen with dismay in her heart .
All summer she have make much of Jed , by way of torment Selena .
But now she realize what he really mean to her .
The old love have waken to life in her heart ; she could not let Jed go out of her life again , leave her to the old loneliness .
If Jed go away everything would be flat , stale , and unprofitable .
She know him to be at heart the kind , most gentle of human being , and the mere fact of his have be unsuccessful , even what some of his old neighbour might call stupid , do not change her feeling toward him in the least .
He be Jed -- that be sufficient for her , and she have business capability enough for both , when it come to that .
Mattie begin to drop hint .
But Jed would not take them .
True , once or twice he think that perhaps Mattie do care a little for him yet .
But it would not do for him to take advantage of that .
`` No , I just could n't do that , '' he tell the pony .
`` I worship the ground that woman tread on , but it ai n't for the like of me to tell her so , not now .
Get up , my nag , get up .
This have be a mighty pleasant summer with that visit to look forward to every week .
But it 's about over now and you must tramp , Jed . ''
Jed sigh .
He remember that it be more romantic than ever , but all at once this fail to comfort him .
Romance up to a certain point be food ; beyond that it pal , so to speak .
Jed 's romance fail him just when he need it most .
Mattie , meanwhile , be force to the dismal conclusion that her hint be throw away .
Jed be plainly determine not to speak .
Mattie felt half angry with him .
She do not choose to make a martyr of herself to romance , and surely the man do n't expect her to ask him to marry her .
`` I 'm sure and certain he 's a fond of me a ever he be , '' she muse .
`` I suppose he 's get some ridiculous notion about be too poor to aspire to me .
Jed always have more pride than a Crane could carry .
Well , I 've do all I can -- all I 'm go to do .
If Jed 's determine to go , he must go , I s ` pose . ''
Mattie would not let herself cry , although she felt like it .
She go out and pick apple instead .
Mattie might have remain so and Jedediah 's romance might never have reach a well end , if it have not be for Selena , who come over just then to help Mattie pick the golden russet .
Fate have evidently destine her a Jed 's best helper .
All summer she have be fairly goad Mattie into love with Jedediah and now she be move to add the last spur .
`` Jed Crane 's go away , I hear , '' she say maliciously .
`` Seems to me you 're bind to be jilt again , Mattie . ''
Mattie have no answer ready .
Selena go on undauntedly .
`` You 've make a nice fool of yourself all summer , I vow .
Throwing yourself at Jed 's head -- and he do n't want you , even with all your property . ''
`` He do want me , '' say Mattie calmly .
Her lip be very firm and her cheeks scarlet .
`` He be not go away .
We be to be marry about Christmas , and Jed will take charge of the farm for me . ''
`` Matilda Adams ! ''
say Selena .
It be all she be capable of say .
The rest of the golden russet be pick in a dead silence , Mattie work with an unusually high colour in her cheek , while Selena 's thin lip be press so closely together a to be little else than a hair line .
After Selena have go home , sulk , Mattie pick on with a very determined face .
The die be cast ; she could not bear Selena 's slur and she would not .
And she have not tell a lie either .
Her word be true ; she would make them true .
All the Adams determination -- and that be not a little -- be rouse in her .
`` If Jed jilt me , he 'll do it to my face , clean and clever , '' she say viciously .
When Jed come again he be very solemn .
He think it would be his last visit , but Mattie felt differently .
She have dress herself with unusual care and crimp her hair .
Her cheek be scarlet and her eye bright .
Jed think she look young and pretty than ever .
The thought that this be the last time he would see her for many a long day to come grow more and more unbearable , yet he firmly determine he would let no presuming word pas his lip .
Mattie have be so kind to him .
It be only honourable of him in return not to let her throw herself away on a poor failure like himself .
`` I suppose this be your last round with the wagon , '' she say .
She have take him out into the garden to say it .
The garden be out of view from the Ford place .
Propose she must , but she draw the line at propose under Selena 's eye .
Jed nod dully .
`` Yes , and then I must toddle off and look for something else to do .
You see , I have n't much of a gift so to speak for business , Mattie , and it take me so long to get work into an understanding of a business or trade that I 'm generally ask to quit before you might say I 've really commence .
It 's be a mighty happy summer for me , though I ca n't say I 've do much in the selling line except to you , Mattie .
What with your kindness and these little visit you 've be good enough to let me make every week , I feel I may say it 's be the happy summer of my life , and I 'm never go to forget it , but a I say , it 's time for me to be move on elsewhere and find something else to do . ''
`` There be something for you to do right here -- if you will do it , '' say Mattie faintly .
For a moment she felt a if she could not go on ; Jed and the garden and the scarf of late aster whirl around her dizzily .
She hold by the sweet-pea trellis to steady herself .
`` I -- I say a terrible thing to Selena the other day .
I -- I do n't know what I 'll do about it if -- if -- you do n't help me out , Jed . ''
`` I 'll do anything I can , '' say Jed , with hearty sympathy .
`` You know that , Mattie .
What be the trouble ? ''
His kindly voice and the good will and affection beaming in his honest blue eye give Mattie renew courage to go on with her self-imposed and most embarrassing task , although before she end her voice shook and dwindle away to such a low whisper that Jed have to bend his head close to hers to hear what she be say .
`` I -- I say -- she goad me into say it , Jed -- slighting and slurring -- jeering at me because you be go away .
I just get mad , Jed -- and I tell her you be n't go -- that you and I -- that we be to be -- married . ''
`` Mattie , do you mean that ? ''
he cry .
`` If you do , I 'm the happiest man alive .
I do n't dare persoom -- I do n't s ` pose you thought anything of me .
But if you do -- and if you want me -- here 's all there be of me , heart and soul and body , forever and ever , a I 've be all my life . ''
Thinking over this speech afterwards Jed be dissatisfy with it .
He think he might have make it much more eloquent and romantic than it be .
But it serve the purpose very well .
It be convince -- it come straight from his honest , stupid heart , and Mattie know it .
She hold out her hand and Jed gather her into his arm .
It be certainly a most fortunate circumstance that the garden be well out of the range of Selena 's vision , or the sight of her sister and the remain member of the despised Crane family repeat their foolish performance , which many year previous have result in Jed 's long banishment , might have cause her to commit almost any unheard-of act of spite a an outlet for her jealous anger .
But only the few remain garden flower be witness to the lover ' indiscretion , and they keep their own counsel after the manner of flower , so Selena 's feeling be mercifully spar this further outrage .
That even Jed drive slowly away through the twilight , mount for the last time on the tin-wagon .
He be so happy that he bore no grudge against even Selena Ford .
As the pony climb the poplar hill Jed draw a long breath and free his mind to the surround landscape and to his faithful and slow-plodding steed that have be one of the main factor in this love affair , have patiently carry him to and from the abode of his lady-love throughout the summer just pass .
Jedediah be a brimful of happiness a mortal man could be , and his rosy thought flow forth in a kind of triumphant chant which would have drive Selena stark distract have she be within hear distance .
What he say too be but a poor expression of what he think , but to the tree and field and pony he chant , `` Well , this be romance .
What else would you call it now ?
Me , poor , scar to speak -- and Mattie ups and do it for me , bless her .
Yes , I 've be long for romance all my life , and I 've get it at last .
None of your commonplace courtship for me , I always say .
Them be my very word .
And I guess this have be a little uncommon -- I guess it have .
Anyhow , I 'm uncommon happy .
I never felt so romantic before .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
The Tryst of the White Lady `` I wisht ye 'd git married , Roger , '' say Catherine Ames .
`` I 'm gitting too old to work -- seventy last April -- and who 's go to look after ye when I 'm go .
Git marry , b ` y -- git married . ''
Roger Temple wince .
His aunt 's harsh , disagreeable voice always jar horribly on his sensitive nerve .
He be fond of her after a fashion , but always that voice make him wonder if there could be anything hard to endure .
Then he give a bitter little laugh .
`` Who 'd have me , Aunt Catherine ? ''
he ask .
Catherine Ames look at him critically across the supper table .
She love him in her way , with all her heart , but she be not in the least blind to his defect .
She do not mince matter with herself or with other people .
Roger be a sallow , plain-featured fellow , small and insignificant look .
And , a if this be not bad enough , he walk with a slight limp and have one thin shoulder a little high than the other -- `` Jarback '' Temple he have be call in school , and the name still cling to him .
To be sure , he have very fine grey eye , but their dreamy brilliance give his dull face an uncanny look which girl do not like , and so make matter rather bad than good .
Of course look do n't matter so much in the case of a man ; Steve Millar be homely enough , and all mark up with smallpox to boot , yet he have get for wife the prettiest and smart girl in South Bay .
But Steve be rich .
Roger be poor and always would be .
He work his stony little farm , from which his father and grandfather have wrest a fair living , after a fashion , but Nature have not cut him out for a successful farmer .
He have n't the strength for it and his heart be n't in it .
He 'd rather be hang over a book .
Catherine secretly think Roger 's matrimonial chance very poor , but it would not do to discourage the b ` y .
What he need be spur on .
`` Ye 'll git someone if ye do n't fly too high , '' she announce loudly and cheerfully .
`` Thar 's always a gal or two here and thar that 's glad to marry for a home .
` Tai n't no use for you to be settin ' your thought on anyone young and pretty .
Ye would n't git her and ye 'd be bad off if ye do .
Your grandfather marry for look , and a nice useless wife he get -- sick half her time .
Git a good strong girl that ai n't afraid of work , that 'll hold thing together when ye 're read po ` try -- that 's as much a you kin expect .
And the sooner the good .
I 'm do -- last winter 's rheumatiz have about finish me .
An ' we ca n't afford hire help . ''
Roger felt a if his raw , quiver soul be be sear .
He look at his aunt curiously -- at her broad , flat face with the mole on the end of her dumpy nose , the bristle hair on her chin , the wrinkled yellow neck , the pale , protrude eye , the coarse , good-humoured mouth .
She be so extremely ugly -- and he have see her across the table all his life .
For twenty-five year he have look at her so .
Must he continue to go on look at ugliness in the shape of a wife all the rest of his life -- he , who worship beauty in everything ?
`` Did my mother look like you , Aunt Catherine ? ''
he ask abruptly .
His aunt star -- and snort .
Her snort be mean to express kindly amusement , but it sound like derision and contempt .
`` Yer ma be n't so humly a me , '' she say cheerfully , `` but she wa n't no beauty either .
None of the Temples be ever good lookin ' than be necessary .
We be worker .
Yer pa wa 'n ' t bad look .
You 're humlier than either of 'em .
Some way ye take after yer grandma -- though she be count pretty at one time .
She be yaller and spindlin ' like you , and you 've get her eye .
What yer so int ` rest in yer ma 's look all at once fer ? ''
`` I be wonder , '' say Roger coolly , `` if Father ever look at her across the table and wish she be prettier . ''
Catherine giggle .
Her giggle be ugly and disagreeable like everything else about her -- everything except a certain odd , loving , loyal old heart bury deep in her bosom , for the sake of which Roger endure the giggle and all the rest .
`` Dessay he do -- dessay he do .
Men al ` ays have a hankerin ' for good look .
But ye 've get to cut yer coat ` cord to yer cloth .
As for yer poor ma , she do n't live long enough to git as ugly a me .
When I come here to keep house for yer pa , folk say a it would n't be long ` fore he marry me .
I would n't a-minded .
But yer pa never hint it .
S'pose he 'd have enough of ugly woman likely . ''
Catherine snort amiably again .
Roger get up -- he could n't endure any more just then .
He must escape .
`` Now you think over what I 've say , '' his aunt call after him .
`` Ye 've gotter git a wife soon , however ye manage it .
` Two n't be so hard if ye 're reasonable .
Do n't stay out as late a ye do last night .
Ye cough all night .
Where be ye -- down at the shore ? ''
`` No , '' say Roger , who always answer her question even when he hat to .
`` I be down at Aunt Isabel 's grave . ''
`` Till eleven o'clock !
Ye ai n't wise !
I dunno what hanker ye have after that unchancy place .
I ai n't be near it for twenty year .
I wonder ye ai n't scairt .
What 'd ye think ye 'd do if ye saw her ghost ? ''
Catherine look curiously at Roger .
She be very superstitious and she believe firmly in ghost , and saw no absurdity in her question .
`` I wish I could see it , '' say Roger , his great eye flash .
He believe in ghost too , at least in Isabel Temple 's ghost .
His uncle have see it ; his grandfather have see it ; he believe he would see it -- the beautiful , bewitching , mocking , lure ghost of lovely Isabel Temple .
`` Do n't wish such stuff , '' say Catherine .
`` Nobody ai n't never the same after they 've see her . ''
`` Was Uncle different ? ''
Roger have come back into the kitchen and be look curiously at his aunt .
`` Diff ` rent ?
He be another man .
He do n't even look the same .
Sich eye !
Al ` ays look past ye at something behind ye .
They 'd give anyone creep .
He never have any notion of flesh-and-blood woman after that -- say a man would n't , after see Isabel .
His life be plumb ruin .
Lucky he die young .
I hat to be in the same room with him -- he wa 'n ' t canny , that be all there be to it .
You keep away from that grave -- you do n't want to look odd than ye be by nature .
And when ye git marry , ye 'll have to give up roamin ' about half the night in graveyard .
A wife would n't put up with it , a I 've do . ''
`` I 'll never get as good a wife a you , Aunt Catherine , '' say Roger with a little whimsical smile that give him the look of an amused gnome .
`` Dessay you wo n't .
But someone ye have to have .
Why 'n ' t ye try ` Liza Adams .
She might have ye -- she 's gittin ' on . '' ''
` Liza ... Adams ! ''
`` That 's what I say .
Ye need n't repeat it -- ` Liza ... Adams -- 's if I 'd mention a hippopotamus .
I git out of patience with ye .
I b ` lieve in my heart ye think ye ought to git a wife that 'd look like a picter . ''
`` I do , Aunt Catherine .
That 's just the kind of wife I want -- grace and beauty and charm .
Nothing less than that will ever content me . ''
* * * * * Roger laugh bitterly again and go out .
It be sunset .
There be no work to do that night except to milk the cow , and his little home boy could do that .
He felt a glad freedom .
He put his hand in his pocket to see if his beloved Wordsworth be there and then he take his way across the field , under a sky of purple and amber , walk quickly despite his limp .
He want to get to some solitary place where he could forget Aunt Catherine and her abominable suggestion and escape into the world of dream where he habitually live and where he find the loveliness he have not find nor could hope to find in his real world .
Roger 's mother have die when he be three and his father when he be eight .
His little , old , bedridden grandmother have live until he be twelve .
He have love her passionately .
She have not be pretty in his remembrance -- a tiny , shrunken , wrinkled thing -- but she have beautiful grey eye that never grow old and a soft , gentle voice -- the only woman 's voice he have ever hear with pleasure .
He be very critical a regard woman 's voice and very sensitive to them .
Nothing hurt him quite so much a an unlovely voice -- not even unloveliness of face .
Her death have leave him desolate .
She be the only human be who have ever understood him .
He could never , he think , have get through his tortured school day without her .
After she die he would not go to school .
He be not in any sense educate .
His father and grandfather have be illiterate men and he have inherit their underdeveloped brain cell .
But he love poetry and read all he could get of it .
It overlay his primitive nature with a curious iridescence of fancy and furnish him with ideal and hunger his environment could never satisfy .
He love beauty in everything .
Moonrises hurt him with their loveliness and he could sit for hour gaze at a white narcissus -- much to his aunt 's exasperation .
He be solitary by nature .
He felt horribly alone in a crowded building but never in the wood or in the wild place along the shore .
It be because of this that his aunt could not get him to go to church -- which be a horror to her orthodox soul .
He tell her he would like to go to church if it be empty but he could not bear it when it be full -- full of smug , ugly people .
Most people , he think , be ugly -- though not so ugly a he be -- and ugliness make him sick with repulsion .
Now and then he saw a pretty girl at whom he like to look but he never saw one that wholly please him .
To him , the homely , cripple , poverty-stricken Roger Temple whom they all would have scorn , there be always a certain subtle something wanting , and the lack of it keep him heartwhole .
He know that this probably save him from much suffering , but for all that he regret it .
He want to love , even vainly ; he want to experience this passion of which the poet sing so much .
Without it he felt he lack the key to a world of wonder .
He even try to fall in love ; he go to church for several Sundays and sit where he could see beautiful Elsa Carey .
She be lovely -- it give him pleasure to look at her ; the gold of her hair be so bright and living ; the pink of her cheek so pure , the curve of her neck so flawless , the lash of her eye so dark and silken .
But he look at her as at a picture .
When he try to think and dream of her , it bore him .
Besides , he know she have a rather nasal voice .
He use to laugh sarcastically to himself over Elsa 's feeling if she have know how desperately he be try to fall in love with her and failing -- Elsa the queen of heart , who believe she have only to look to reign .
He give up try at last , but he still long to love .
He know he would never marry ; he could not marry plainness , and beauty would have long to love .
He know he would never marry ; he could not marry plainness , and beauty would have none of him ; but he do not want to miss everything and he have moment when he be very bitter and rebellious because he felt he must miss it forever .
He go straight to Isabel Temple 's grave in the remote shore field of his farm .
Isabel Temple have live and die eighty year ago .
She have be very lovely , very wilful , very fond of play with the heart of men .
She have marry William Temple , the brother of his great-grandfather , and a she stand in her white dress beside her bridegroom , at the conclusion of the wedding ceremony , a jilted lover , craze by despair , have enter the house and shot her dead .
She have be bury in the shore field , where a square space have be dyke off in the centre for a burial lot because the church be then so far away .
With the passage of year the lot have grow up so thickly with fir and birch and wild cherry that it look like a compact grove .
A wind path lead through it to it heart where Isabel Temple 's grave be , thickly overgrown with long , silken , pale green grass .
Roger hurry along the path and sit down on the big grey boulder by the grave , look about him with a long breath of delight .
How lovely -- and witching -- and unearthly it be here .
Little fern be grow in the hollow and crack of the big boulder where clay have lodge .
Over Isabel Temple 's crooked , lichened gravestone hung a young wild cherry in it delicate bloom .
Above it , in a little space of sky leave by the slender tree top , be a young moon .
It be too dark here after all to read Wordsworth , but that do not matter .
The place , with it moist air , it tang of fir balsam , be like a perfumed room where a man might dream dream and see vision .
There be a soft murmur of wind in the bough over him , and the faraway moan of the sea on the bar crept in .
Roger surrender himself utterly to the charm of the place .
When he enter that grove , he have leave behind the realm of daylight and thing know and come into the realm of shadow and mystery and enchantment .
Anything might happen -- anything might be true .
Eighty long year have come and go , but Isabel Temple , thus cruelly tear from life at the moment when it have promise her most , do not even yet rest calmly in her grave ; such at least be the story , and Roger believe it .
It be in his blood to believe it .
The Temples be a superstitious family , and there be nothing in Roger 's upbringing to correct the tendency .
His be not a sceptical or scientific mind .
He be ignorant and poetical and credulous .
He have always accept unquestioningly the tale that Isabel Temple have be see on earth long after the red clay be heap over her murder body .
Her bridegroom have see her , when he go to visit her on the eve of his second and unhappy marriage ; his grandfather have see her .
His grandmother , who have tell him Isabel 's story , have tell him this too , and believe it .
She have add , with a bitterness foreign to his idea of her , that her husband have never be the same to her afterwards ; his uncle have see her -- and have live and die a haunt man .
It be only to men the lovely , restless ghost appear , and her appearance bode no good to him who saw .
Roger know this , but he have a curious longing to see her .
He have never avoid her grave a others of his tribe do .
He love the spot , and he believe that some time he would see Isabel Temple there .
She come , so the story go , to one in each generation of the family .
He gaze down at her sunken grave ; a little wind , that come steal along the floor of the grove , raise and sway the long , hair-like grass on it , give the curious suggestion of something prisoned under it try to draw a long breath and float upward .
Then , when he lift his eye again , he saw her !
She be stand behind the gravestone , under the cherry tree , whose long white branch touch her head ; stand there , with her head droop a little , but look steadily at him .
It be just between dusk and dark now , but he saw her very plainly .
She be dress in white , with some filmy scarf over her head , and her hair hung in a dark heavy braid over her shoulder .
Her face be small and ivory-white , and her eye be very large and dark .
Roger look straight into them and they do something to him -- draw something out of him that be never to be his again -- his heart ?
his soul ?
He do not know .
He only know that lovely Isabel Temple have now come to him and that he be hers forever .
For a few moment that seem year he look at her -- look till the lure of her eye draw him to his foot a a man rise in sleep-walking .
As he slowly stand up , the low-hanging bough of a fir tree push his cap down over his face and blind him .
When he snatch it off , she be go .
* * * * * Roger Temple do not go home that night till the spring dawn be in the sky .
Catherine be sleepless with anxiety about him .
When she hear him come up the stair , she open her door and peep out .
Roger go along the hall without see her .
His brilliant eye star straight before him , and there be something in his face that make Catherine steal back to her bed with a little shiver of fear .
He look like his uncle .
She do not ask him , when they meet at breakfast , where or how he have spend the night .
He have be dread the question and be relieve beyond measure when it be not ask .
But , apart from that , he be hardly conscious of her presence .
He eat and drink mechanically and voicelessly .
When he have go out , Catherine wag her uncomely grey head ominously .
`` He 's bewitch , '' she mutter .
`` I know the sign .
He 's see her -- drat her !
It 's time she give up that kind of work .
Well , I dunno what to do -- thar ai n't anything I can do , I reckon .
He 'll never marry now -- I 'm a sure of that a of any mortal thing .
He 's in love with a ghost . ''
It have not yet occur to Roger that he be in love .
He think of nothing but Isabel Temple -- her lovely , lovely face , sweet than any picture he have ever see or any ideal he have dream , her long dark hair , her slim form and , more than all , her compelling eye .
He saw them wherever he look -- they draw him -- he would have follow them to the end of the world , heedless of all else .
He long for night , that he might again steal to the grave in the haunt grove .
She might come again -- who know ?
He felt no fear , nothing but a terrible hunger to see her again .
But she do not come that night -- nor the next -- nor the next .
Two week go by and he have not see her .
Perhaps he would never see her again -- the thought fill him with anguish not to be borne .
He know now that he love her -- Isabel Temple , dead for eighty year .
This be love -- this searing , torture , intolerably sweet thing -- this possession of body and soul and spirit .
The poet have sing but weakly of it .
He could tell them well if he could find word .
Could other men have love at all -- could any man love those blowzy , common girl of earth ?
It seem impossible -- absurd .
There be only one thing that could be love -- that white spirit .
No wonder his uncle have die .
He , Roger Temple , would soon die too .
That would be well .
Only the dead could woo Isabel .
Meanwhile he revel in his torment and his happiness -- so madly commingle that he never know whether he be in heaven or hell .
It be beautiful -- and dreadful -- and wonderful -- and exquisite -- oh , so exquisite .
Mortal love could never be so exquisite .
He have never live before -- now he live in every fibre of his be .
He be glad Aunt Catherine do not worry him with question .
He have fear she would .
But she never ask any question now and she be afraid of Roger , a she have be afraid of his uncle .
She dare not ask question .
It be a thing that must not be tamper with .
Who know what she might hear if she ask him question ?
She be very unhappy .
Something dreadful have happen to her poor boy -- he have be bewitch by that hussy -- he would die a his uncle have die .
`` Mebbe it 's best , '' she mutter .
`` He 's the last of the Temples , so mebbe she 'll rest in her grave when she 's kill 'em all .
I dunno what she 's sich a spite at them for -- there 'd be more sense if she 'd haunt the Mortons , seein ' a a Morton kill her .
Well , I 'm mighty old and tired and wear out .
It do n't seem that it 's be much use , the way I 've slave and fuss to bring that b ' y up and keep thing together for him -- and now the ghost 's get him .
I might as well have let him die when he be a sickly baby . ''
If this have be say to Roger he would have retort that it be worthwhile to have live long enough to feel what he be feel now .
He would not have miss it for a score of other men 's life .
He have drunk of some immortal wine and be a a god .
Even if she never come again , he have see her once , and she have teach him life 's great secret in that one unforgettable exchange of eye .
She be his -- his in spite of his ugliness and his crooked shoulder .
No man could ever take her from him .
But she do come again .
One evening , when the darkening grove be full of magic in the light of the rise yellow moon shin across the level field , Roger sit on the big boulder by the grave .
The evening be very still ; there be no sound save the echo of noisy laughter that seem to come up from the bay shore -- drunken fisherman , likely a not .
Roger resent the intrusion of such a sound in such a place -- it be a sacrilege .
When he come here to dream of her , only the lovely of muted sound should be hear -- the faint whisper of tree , the half-heard , half-felt moan of surf , the airy sigh of wind .
He never read Wordsworth now or any other book .
He only sit there and thought of her , his great eye alight , his pale face flush with the wonder of his love .
She slip through the dark bough like a moonbeam and stood by the stone .
Again he saw her quite plainly -- saw and drink her in with his eye .
He do not feel surprise -- something in him have know she would come again .
He would not move a muscle lest he lose her a he have lose her before .
They look at each other -- for how long ?
He do not know ; and then -- a horrible thing happen .
Into that place of wonder and revelation and mystery reel a hiccoughing , laugh creature , a drunken sailor from a harbour ship , with a leering face and desecrate breath .
`` Oh , you 're here , my dear -- I think I 'd catch you yet , '' he say .
He catch hold of her .
She scream .
Roger spring forward and strike him in the face .
In his fury of sudden rage the strength of ten seem to animate his slender body and pas into his blow .
The sailor reel back and put up his hand .
He be a coward -- and even a brave man might have be daunt by that terrible white face and those blazing eye .
He back down the path .
`` Shorry -- shorry , '' he mutter .
`` Did n't know she be your girl -- shorry I butt in .
Shentlemans never butt in -- shorry -- shir -- shorry . ''
He keep repeat his ridiculous `` shorry '' until he be out of the grove .
Then he turn and run stumblingly across the field .
Roger do not follow ; he go back to Isabel Temple 's grave .
The girl be lie across it ; he think she be unconscious .
He stoop and pick her up -- she be light and small , but she be warm flesh and blood ; she cling uncertainly to him for a moment and he felt her breath on his face .
He do not speak -- he be too sick at heart .
She do not speak either .
He do not think this strange until afterwards .
He be incapable of think just then ; he be daze , wretched , lose .
Presently he become aware that she be timidly pull his arm .
It seem that she want him to go with her -- she be evidently frighten of that brute -- he must take her to safety .
And then -- She move on down the little path and he follow .
Out in the moonlit field he saw her clearly .
With her droop head , her flow dark hair , her great brown eye , she look like the nymph of a wood-brook , a haunter of shadow , a creature sprung from the wild .
But she be mortal maid , and he -- what a fool he have be !
Presently he would laugh at himself , when this daze agony should clear away from his brain .
He follow her down the long field to the bay shore .
Now and then she pause and look back to see if he be come , but she never speak .
When she reach the shore road she turn and go along it until they come to an old grey house front the calm grey harbour .
At it gate she pause .
Roger know now who she be .
Catherine have tell him about her a month ago .
She be Lilith Barr , a girl of eighteen , who have come to live with her uncle and aunt .
Her father have die some month before .
She be absolutely deaf a the result of some accident in childhood , and she be , a his own eye tell him , exquisitely lovely in her white , haunting style .
But she be not Isabel Temple ; he have trick himself -- he have live in a fool 's paradise -- oh , he must get away and laugh at himself .
He leave her at her gate , disregard the little hand she put timidly out -- but he do not laugh at himself .
He go back to Isabel Temple 's grave and flung himself down on it and cry like a boy .
He weep his stormy , anguish soul out on it ; and when he rise and go away , he believe it be forever .
He think he could never , never go there again .
* * * * * Catherine look at him curiously the next morning .
He look wretched -- haggard and hollow-eyed .
She know he have not come in till the summer dawn .
But he have lose the rapt , uncanny look she hat ; suddenly she no longer felt afraid of him .
With this , she begin to ask question again .
`` What keep ye out so late again last night , b ` y ? ''
she say reproachfully .
Roger look at her in her morning ugliness .
He have not really see her for week .
Now she smite on his tortured sens , so long drug with beauty , like a physical blow .
He suddenly burst into a laughter that frighten her .
`` Preserve 's , b ` y , have ye go mad ?
Or , '' she add , `` have ye see Isabel Temple 's ghost ? ''
`` No , '' say Roger loudly and explosively .
`` Do n't talk any more about that damn ghost .
Nobody ever saw it .
The whole story be balderdash . ''
He get up and go violently out , leave Catherine aghast .
Was it possible Roger have swear ?
What on earth have come over the b ` y ?
But come what have or come what would , he no longer look fey -- there be that much to be thankful for .
Even an occasional oath be good than that .
Catherine go stiffly about her dish-washing , resolve to have ` Liza Adams to supper some night .
For a week Roger live in agony -- an agony of shame and humiliation and self-contempt .
Then , when the edge of his bitter disappointment wear away , he make another dreadful discovery .
He still love her and long for her just as keenly a before .
He want madly to see her -- her flower-like face , her great , ask eye , the sleek , braid flow of her hair .
Ghost or woman -- spirit or flesh -- it matter not .
He could not live without her .
At last his hunger for her drew him to the old grey house on the bay shore .
He know he be a fool -- she would never look at him ; he be only feed the flame that must consume him .
But go he must and do , seek for his lose paradise .
He do not see her when he go in , but Mrs. Barr receive him kindly and talk about her in a pleasant garrulous fashion which jar on Roger , yet he listen greedily .
Lilith , her aunt tell him , have be make deaf by the accidental explosion of a gun when she be eight year old .
She could not hear a sound but she could talk .
`` A little , that be -- not much , but enough to get along with .
But she do n't like talk somehow -- dunno why .
She 's shy -- and we think maybe she do n't like to talk much because she ca n't hear her own voice .
She do n't ever speak except just when she have to .
But she 's be train to lip-reading something wonderful -- she can understand anything that 's say when she can see the person that 's talk .
Still , it 's a terrible drawback for the poor child -- she 's never have any real girl-life and she 's dreadful sensitive and retire .
We ca n't get her to go out anywhere , only for lonely walk along shore by herself .
We 're much oblige for what you do the other night .
It ai n't safe for her to wander about alone a she do , but it ai n't often anybody from the harbour get up this far .
She be dreadful upset about it -- have n't get over her scare yet . ''
When Lilith come in , her ivory-white face go scarlet all over at the sight of Roger .
She sit down in a shadowy corner .
Mrs. Barr get up and go out .
Roger be mute ; he could find nothing to say .
He could have talk glibly enough to Isabel Temple 's ghost in some unearthly tryst by her grave , but he could not find a word to say to this slip of flesh and blood .
He felt very foolish and absurd , and very conscious of his twisted shoulder .
What a fool he have be to come !
Then Lilith look up at him -- and smile .
A little shy , friendly smile .
Roger suddenly saw her not a the tantalizing , unreal , mystic thing of the twilit grove , but a a little human creature , exquisitely pretty in her young-moon beauty , long for companionship .
He get up , forget his ugliness , and go across the room to her .
`` Will you come for a walk , '' he say eagerly .
He hold out his hand like a child ; a a child she stand up and take it ; like two child they go out and down the sunset shore .
Roger be again incredibly happy .
It be not the same happiness a have be his in that vanish fortnight ; it be a homely happiness with it foot on the earth .
The amazing thing be that he felt she be happy too -- happy because she be walk with him , `` Jarback '' Temple , whom no girl have even think about .
A certain secret well-spring of fancy that have seem dry well up in him sparklingly again .
Through the summer week the odd courtship go on .
Roger talk to her a he have never talk to anyone .
He do not find it in the least hard to talk to her , though her necessity of watch his face so closely while he talk bother him occasionally .
He felt that her intent gaze be read his soul as well a his lip .
She never talk much herself ; what she do say she speak so low that it be hardly above a whisper , but she have a voice as lovely a her face -- sweet , cadenced , haunt .
Roger be quite mad about her , and he be horribly afraid that he could never get up enough courage to ask her to marry him .
And he be afraid that if he do , she would never consent .
In spite of her shy , eager welcome he could not believe she could care for him -- for him .
She like him , she be sorry for him , but it be unthinkable that she , white , exquisite Lilith , could marry him and sit at his table and his hearth .
He be a fool to dream of it .
To the existence of romance and glamour in which he live , no gossip of the countryside penetrate .
Yet much gossip there be , and at last it come blunder in on Roger to destroy his fairy world a second time .
He come downstairs one night in the twilight , ready to go to Lilith .
His aunt and an old crony be talk in the kitchen ; the crony be old , and Catherine , suppose Roger be out of the house , be talk loudly in that horrible voice of hers with still more horrible zest and satisfaction .
`` Yes , I 'm guess it 'll be a match a ye say .
Oh the b ` y 's do well .
He ai n't for every market , a I 'm bound to admit .
Ef she wa n't deaf she would n't look at him , no doubt .
But she have scad of money -- they wo n't need to do a tap of work unless they like -- and she 's a good housekeeper too her aunt tell me .
She 's pretty enough to suit him -- he 's as particular a never be -- and he wa n't crook and she wa n't deaf when they be bear , so it 's likely their child will be all right .
I 'm that proud when I think of the match . ''
Roger flee out of the house , white of face and sick of heart .
He go , not to the bay shore , but to Isabel Temple 's grave .
He have never be there since the night when he have rescue Lilith , but now he rush to it in his new agony .
His aunt 's horrible practicality have fill him with disgust -- they drag his love in the dust of sordid thing .
And Lilith be rich ; he have never know that -- never suspect it .
He could never ask her to marry him now ; he must never see her again .
For the second time he have lose her , and this second losing could not be borne .
He sit down on the big boulder by the grave and drop his poor grey face in his hand , moan in anguish .
Nothing be leave him , not even dream .
He hop he could soon die .
He do not know how long he sit there -- he do not know when she come .
But when he lift his miserable eye , he saw her , sit just a little way from him on the big stone and look at him with something in her face that make his heart beat madly .
He forget Aunt Catherine 's sacrilege -- he forget that he be a presumptuous fool .
He bend forward and kiss her lip for the first time .
The wonder of it loose his bound tongue .
`` Lilith , '' he gasp , `` I love you . ''
She put her hand into his and nestle close to him .
`` I think you would have tell me that long ago , '' she say .
Uncle Richard 's New Year 's Dinner Prissy Baker be in Oscar Miller 's store New Year 's morning , buying match -- for New Year 's be not keep a a business holiday in Quincy -- when her uncle , Richard Baker , come in .
He do not look at Prissy , nor do she wish him a happy New Year ; she would not have dare .
Uncle Richard have not be on speaking term with her or her father , his only brother , for eight year .
He be a big , ruddy , prosperous-looking man -- an uncle to be proud of , Prissy think wistfully , if only he be like other people 's uncle , or , indeed , like what he use to be himself .
He be the only uncle Prissy have , and when she have be a little girl they have be great friend ; but that be before the quarrel , in which Prissy have have no share , to be sure , although Uncle Richard seem to include her in his rancour .
Richard Baker , so he inform Mr. Miller , be on his way to Navarre with a load of pork .
`` I do n't intend go over until the afternoon , '' he say , `` but Joe Hemming send word yesterday he would n't be buy pork after twelve today .
So I have to tote my hog over at once .
I do n't care about do business New Year 's morning . ''
`` Should think New Year 's would be pretty much the same a any other day to you , '' say Mr. Miller , for Richard Baker be a bachelor , with only old Mrs. Janeway to keep house for him .
`` Well , I always like a good dinner on New Year 's , '' say Richard Baker .
`` It 's about the only way I can celebrate .
Mrs. Janeway want to spend the day with her son 's family over at Oriental , so I be lay out to cook my own dinner .
I get everything ready in the pantry last night , ` fore I get word about the pork .
I wo n't get back from Navarre before one o'clock , so I reckon I 'll have to put up with a cold bite . ''
After her Uncle Richard have drive away , Prissy walk thoughtfully home .
She have plan to spend a nice , lazy holiday with the new book her father have give her at Christmas and a box of candy .
She do not even mean to cook a dinner , for her father have have to go to town that morning to meet a friend and would be go the whole day .
There be nobody else to cook dinner for .
Prissy 's mother have die when Prissy be a baby .
She be her father 's housekeeper , and they have jolly time together .
But a she walk home , she could not help think about Uncle Richard .
He would certainly have cold New Year cheer , enough to chill the whole come year .
She felt sorry for him , picture him return from Navarre , cold and hungry , to find a fireless house and an uncooked dinner in the pantry .
Suddenly an idea pop into Prissy 's head .
Dared she ?
Oh , she never could !
But he would never know -- there would be plenty of time -- she would !
Prissy hurry home , put her match away , take a regretful peep at her unopened book , then lock the door and start up the road to Uncle Richard 's house half a mile away .
She mean to go and cook Uncle Richard 's dinner for him , get it all beautifully ready , then slip away before he come home .
He would never suspect her of it .
Prissy would not have him suspect for the world ; she think he would be more likely to throw a dinner of her cook out of door than to eat it .
Eight year before this , when Prissy have be nine year old , Richard and Irving Baker have quarrel over the division of a piece of property .
The fault have be mainly on Richard 's side , and that very fact make him all the more unrelenting and stubborn .
He have never speak to his brother since , and he declare he never would .
Prissy and her father felt very badly over it , but Uncle Richard do not seem to feel badly at all .
To all appearance he have completely forget that there be such people in the world a his brother Irving and his niece Prissy .
Prissy have no trouble in break into Uncle Richard 's house , for the woodshed door be unfasten .
She trip into the hostile kitchen with rosy cheek and mischief sparkling in her eye .
This be an adventure -- this be fun !
She would tell her father all about it when he come home at night and what a laugh they would have !
There be still a good fire in the stove , and in the pantry Prissy find the dinner in it raw state -- a fine roast of fresh pork , potato , cabbage , turnip and the ingredient of a raisin pudding , for Richard Baker be fond of raisin pudding , and could make them as well a Mrs. Janeway could , if that be anything to boast of .
In a short time the kitchen be full of bubble and hissing and appetizing odour .
Prissy enjoy herself hugely , and the raisin pudding , which she rather doubtfully mixed up , behave itself beautifully .
`` Uncle Richard say he 'd be home by one , '' say Prissy to herself , a the clock strike twelve , `` so I 'll set the table now , dish up the dinner , and leave it where it will keep warm until he get here .
Then I 'll slip away home .
I 'd like to see his face when he step in .
I suppose he 'll think one of the Jenner girl across the street have cook his dinner . ''
Prissy soon have the table set , and she be just pepper the turnip when a gruff voice behind her say : `` Well , well , what do this mean ? ''
Prissy whirl around a if she have be shoot , and there stood Uncle Richard in the woodshed door !
Poor Prissy !
She could not have look or felt more guilty if Uncle Richard have catch her rob his desk .
She do not drop the turnip for a wonder ; but she be too confused to set them down , so she stand there hold them , her face crimson , her heart thumping , and a horrible choking in her throat .
`` I -- I -- come up to cook your dinner for you , Uncle Richard , '' she stammer .
`` I hear you say -- in the store -- that Mrs. Janeway have go home and that you have nobody to cook your New Year 's dinner for you .
So I think I 'd come and do it , but I mean to slip away before you come home . ''
Poor Prissy felt that she would never get to the end of her explanation .
Would Uncle Richard be angry ?
Would he order her from the house ?
`` It be very kind of you , '' say Uncle Richard drily .
`` It 's a wonder your father let you come . ''
`` Father be not home , but I be sure he would not have prevent me if he have be .
Father have no hard feeling against you , Uncle Richard . ''
`` Humph ! ''
say Uncle Richard .
`` Well , since you 've cook the dinner you must stop and help me eat it .
It smell good , I must say .
Mrs. Janeway always burn pork when she roast it .
Sit down , Prissy .
I 'm hungry . ''
They sit down .
Prissy felt quite giddy and breathless , and could hardly eat for excitement ; but Uncle Richard have evidently bring home a good appetite from Navarre , and he do full justice to his New Year 's dinner .
He talk to Prissy too , quite kindly and politely , and when the meal be over he say slowly : `` I 'm much oblige to you , Prissy , and I do n't mind own to you that I 'm sorry for my share in the quarrel , and have want for a long time to be friend with your father again , but I be too ashamed and proud to make the first advance .
You can tell him so for me , if you like .
And if he 's willing to let bygone be bygone , tell him I 'd like him to come up here with you tonight when he get home and spend the evening with me . ''
`` Oh , he will come , I know ! ''
cry Prissy joyfully .
`` He have felt so badly about not be friendly with you , Uncle Richard .
I 'm as glad a can be . ''
Prissy run impulsively around the table and kiss Uncle Richard .
He look up at his tall , girlish niece with a smile of pleasure .
`` You 're a good girl , Prissy , and a kind-hearted one too , or you 'd never have come up here to cook a dinner for a crabbed old uncle who deserve to eat cold dinner for his stubbornness .
It make me cross today when folk wish me a happy New Year .
It seem like mockery when I have n't a soul belonging to me to make it happy .
But it have bring me happiness already , and I believe it will be a happy year all the way through . ''
`` Indeed it will ! ''
laugh Prissy .
`` I 'm so happy now I could sing .
I believe it be an inspiration -- my idea of come up here to cook your dinner for you . ''
`` You must promise to come and cook my New Year 's dinner for me every New Year we live near enough together , '' say Uncle Richard .
And Prissy promise .
White Magic One September afternoon in the year of grace 1840 Avery and Janet Sparhallow be pick apple in their Uncle Daniel Sparhallow 's big orchard .
It be an afternoon of mellow sunshine ; about them , beyond the orchard , be old harvest field , mellowly bright and serene , and beyond the field the sapphire curve of the St. Lawrence Gulf be visible through the grove of spruce and birch .
There be a soft whisper of wind in the tree , and the pale purple aster that feather the orchard grass sway gently towards each other .
Janet Sparhallow , who love the outdoor world and it beauty , be , for the time be at least , very happy , a her little brown face , with it fine , satiny skin , plainly show .
Avery Sparhallow do not seem so happy .
She work rather abstractedly and frown oftener than she smile .
Avery Sparhallow be concede to be a beauty , and have no rival in Burnley Beach .
She be very pretty , with the obvious , indisputable prettiness of rich black hair , vivid , certain colour , and laughing , brilliant eye .
Nobody ever call Janet a beauty , or even think her pretty .
She be only seventeen -- five year young than Avery -- and be rather lanky and weedy , with a rope of straight dark-brown hair , long , narrow , shin brown eye and very black lash , and a crooked , clever little mouth .
She have visitation of beauty when excite , because then she flush deeply , and colour make all the difference in the world to her ; but she have never happen to look in the glass when excite , so that she have never see herself beautiful ; and hardly anybody else have ever see her so , because she be always too shy and awkward and tongue-tied in company to feel excite over anything .
Yet very little could bring that transform flush to her face : a wind off the gulf , a sudden glimpse of blue upland , a flame-red poppy , a baby 's laugh , a certain footstep .
As for Avery Sparhallow , she never get excite over anything -- not even her wedding dress , which have come from Charlottetown that day , and be incomparably beyond anything that have ever be see in Burnley Beach before .
For it be make of an apple-green silk , spray over with tiny rosebud , which have be specially send for to England , where Aunt Matilda Sparhallow have a brother in the silk trade .
Avery Sparhallow 's wedding dress be make far more of a sensation in Burnley Beach than her wed itself be make .
For Randall Burnley have be dangle after her for three year , and everybody know that there be nobody for a Sparhallow to marry except a Burnley and nobody for a Burnley to marry except a Sparhallow .
`` Only one silk dress -- and I want a dozen , '' Avery have say scornfully .
`` What would you do with a dozen silk dress on a farm ? ''
Janet ask wonderingly .
`` Oh -- what indeed ? ''
agree Avery , with an impatient laugh .
`` Randall will think just as much of you in drugget a in silk , '' say Janet , mean to comfort .
Again Avery laugh .
`` That be true .
Randall never notice what a woman have on .
I like a man who do notice -- and tell me about it .
I like a man who like me good in silk than in drugget .
I will wear this rosebud silk when I 'm married , and it will be suppose to last me the rest of my life and be wear on all state occasion , and in time become an heirloom like Aunt Matilda 's hideous blue satin .
I want a new silk dress every month . ''
Janet pay little attention to this kind of raving .
Avery have always be more or less discontent .
She would be content enough after she be marry .
Nobody could be discontent who be Randall Burnley 's wife .
Janet be sure of that .
Janet like picking apple ; Avery do not like it ; but Aunt Matilda have decree that the red apple should be pick that afternoon , and Aunt Matilda 's word be law at the Sparhallow farm , even for wilful Avery .
So they work and talk a they work -- of Avery 's wedding , which be to be as soon a Bruce Gordon should arrive from Scotland .
`` I wonder what Bruce will be like , '' say Avery .
`` It be eight year since he go home to Scotland .
He be sixteen then -- he will be twenty-four now .
He go away a boy -- he will come back a man . ''
`` I do n't remember much about him , '' say Janet .
`` I be only nine when he go away .
He use to tease me -- I do remember that . ''
There be a little resentment in her voice .
Janet have never like be tease .
Avery laugh .
`` You be so touchy , Janet .
Touchy people always get tease .
Bruce be very handsome -- and as nice a he be handsome .
Those two year he be here be the nice , gay time I ever have .
I wish he have stay in Canada .
But of course he would n't do that .
His father be a rich man and Bruce be ambitious .
Oh , Janet , I wish I could live in the old land .
That would be life . ''
Janet have hear all this before and could not understand it .
She have no hankering for either Scotland or England .
She love the new land and it wild , virgin beauty .
She yearn to the future , never to the past .
`` I 'm tired of Burnley Beach , '' Avery go on passionately , shake apple wildly off a laden bough by way of emphasis .
`` I know all the people -- what they be -- what they can be .
It 's like read a book for the twentieth time .
I know where I be bear and who I 'll marry -- and where I 'll be bury .
That 's know too much .
All my day will be alike when I marry Randall .
There will never be anything unexpected or surprising about them .
I tell you Janet , '' Avery seize another bough and shake it with a vengeance , `` I hate the very thought of it . ''
`` The thought of -- what ? ''
say Janet in bewilderment .
`` Of marry Randall Burnley -- or marry anybody down here -- and settle down on a farm for life . ''
Then Avery sit down on the rung of her ladder and laugh at Janet 's face .
`` You look stun , Janet .
Did you really think I want to marry Randall ? ''
Janet be stun , and she do think that .
How could any girl not want to marry Randall Burnley if she have the chance ?
`` Do n't you love him ? ''
she ask stupidly .
Avery bit into a nut-sweet apple .
`` No , '' she say frankly .
`` Oh , I do n't hate him , of course .
I like him well enough .
I like him very well .
But we 'll quarrel all our life . ''
`` Then what be you marry him for ? ''
ask Janet .
`` Why , I 'm get on -- twenty-two -- all the girl of my age be marry already .
I wo n't be an old maid , and there 's nobody but Randall .
Nobody good enough for a Sparhallow , that be .
You would n't want me to marry Ned Adams or John Buchanan , would you ? ''
`` No , '' say Janet , who have her full share of the Sparhallow pride .
`` Well , then , of course I must marry Randall .
That 's settle and there 's no use make face over the notion .
I 'm not make face , but I 'm tired of hear you talk a if you think I adore him and must be in the seventh heaven because I be go to marry him , you romantic child . ''
`` Does Randall know you feel like this ? ''
ask Janet in a low tone .
`` No .
Randall be like all men -- vain and self-satisfied -- and believe I 'm crazy about him .
It 's just as well to let him think so , until we 're safely married anyhow .
Randall have some romantic notion too , and I 'm not sure that he 'd marry me if he know , in spite of his three year ' devotion .
And I have no intention of be jilt three week before my wedding day . ''
Avery laugh again , and toss away the core of her apple .
Janet , who have be very pale , go crimson and lovely .
She could not endure hear Randall criticize .
`` Vain and self-satisfied '' -- when there be never a man less so !
She be horrify to feel that she almost hat Avery -- Avery who do not love Randall .
`` What a pity Randall do n't take a fancy to you instead of me , Janet , '' say Avery teasingly .
`` Would n't you like to marry him , Janet ?
Would n't you now ? ''
`` No , '' cry Janet angrily .
`` I just like Randall , I 've like him ever since that day when I be a little thing and he come here and save me from be shut up all day in that dreadful dark closet because I break Aunt Matilda 's blue cup -- when I have n't mean to break it .
He would n't let her shut me up !
He be like that -- he understand !
I want you to marry him because he want you , and it be n't fair that you -- that you -- '' `` Nothing be fair in this world , child .
Is it fair that I , who be so pretty -- you know I be pretty , Janet -- and who love life and excitement , should have to be bury on a P.E . Island farm all my day ?
Or else be an old maid because a Sparhallow must n't marry beneath her ?
Come , Janet , do n't look so woebegone .
I would n't have tell you if I 'd think you 'd take it so much to heart .
I 'll be a good wife to Randall , never fear , and I 'll keep him up to the notch of prosperity much well than if I think him a little low than the angel .
It do n't do to think a man perfection , Janet , because he think so too , and when he find someone who agree with him he be incline to rest on his oar . ''
`` At any rate , you do n't care for anyone else , '' say Janet hopefully .
`` Not I. I like Randall as well a I like anybody . ''
`` Randall wo n't be satisfy with that , '' mutter Janet .
But Avery do not hear her , have pick up her basket of apple and go .
Janet sit down on the low rung of the ladder and give herself up to an unpleasant reverie .
Oh , how the world have change in half an hour !
She have never be so worried in her life .
She be so fond of Randall -- she have always be fond of him -- why , he be just like a brother to her !
She could n't possibly love a brother more .
And Avery be go to hurt him ; it would hurt him horribly when he find out she do not love him .
Janet could not bear the thought of Randall be hurt ; it make her fairly savage .
He must not be hurt -- Avery must love him .
Janet could not understand why she do not .
Surely everyone must love Randall .
It have never occur to Janet to ask herself , a Avery have ask , if she would like to marry Randall .
Randall could never fancy her -- a little plain , brown thing , only half grown .
Nobody could think of her beside beautiful , rose-faced Avery .
Janet accept this fact unquestioningly .
She have never be jealous .
She only felt that she want Randall to have everything he want -- to be perfectly happy .
Why , it would be dreadful if he do not marry Avery -- if he go and marry some other girl .
She would never see him then , never have any more delightful talk with him about all the thing they both love so much -- wind and delicate dawn , mysterious wood in moonlight and starry midnight , silver-white sail go out of the harbour in the magic of morning , and the grey of gulf storm .
There would be nothing in life ; it would just be one great , unbearable emptiness ; for she , herself , would never marry .
There be nobody for her to marry -- and she do n't care .
If she could have Randall for a real brother , she would not mind a bit be an old maid .
And there be that beautiful new frame house Randall have build for his bride , which she , Janet , have help him build , because Avery would not condescend to detail of pantry and linen closet and cupboard .
Janet and Randall have have such fun over the cupboard .
No stranger must ever come to be mistress of that house .
Randall must marry Avery , and she must love him .
Could anything be do to make her love him ?
`` I believe I 'll go and see Granny Thomas , '' say Janet desperately .
She think this be a silly idea , but it still haunt her and would not be shake off .
Granny Thomas be a very old woman who live at Burnley Cove and be repute to be something of a witch .
That be , people who be not Sparhallows or Burnleys give her that name .
Sparhallows or Burnleys , of course , be above believe in such nonsense .
Janet be above believe it ; but still -- the sailor along shore be careful to `` keep on the good side '' of Granny Thomas , l she brew an unfavourable wind for them , and there be much talk of love potion .
Janet know that people say Peggy Buchanan would never have get Jack McLeod if Granny have not give her a love potion .
Jack have never look at Peggy , though she be after him for year ; and then , all at once , he be quite mad about her -- and marry her -- and wear her life out with jealousy .
And Peggy , the homely of all the Buchanan girl !
There must be something in it .
Janet make a sudden desperate resolve .
She would go to Granny and ask her for a love potion to make Avery love Randall .
If Granny could n't do any good , she could n't do any harm .
Janet be a little afraid of her , and have never be near her house , but what would n't she do for Randall ?
* * * * * Janet never lose much time in carry out any resolution she make .
The next afternoon she slip away to visit Granny Thomas .
She put on her long dress and do her hair up for the first time .
Granny must not think her a child .
She row herself down the long pond to the row of golden-brown sand dune that part it from the gulf .
It be a wonderful autumn day .
There be wild growth and colour and scent in sweet procession all around the pond .
Every curve in it reveal some little whim of loveliness .
On the left bank , in a grove of birch , be Randall 's new house , wait to be sanctify by love and joy and birth .
Janet love to be alone thus with the delightful day .
She be sorry when she have walk over the stretch of windy weedy sea field and reach Granny 's little tumbledown house at the Cove -- sorry and a little frightened a well .
But only a little ; there be good stuff in Janet ; she lift the latch boldly and walk in when Granny bade .
Granny be curl up on a stool by her fireplace , and if ever anybody do look like a witch , she do .
She wave her pipe at another stool , and Janet sit down , gaze a little curiously at Granny , whom she have never see at such close quarter before .
Will I look like that when I be very old ?
she think , behold Granny 's wizened , marvellously wrinkle face .
I wonder if anybody will be sorry when you die .
`` Staring be n't think good manner in my time , '' say Granny .
Then , a Janet blush crimson under the rebuke , she add , `` Keep red like that instead o ' white , and you wo n't need no love ointment . ''
Janet felt a little cold thrill .
How do Granny know what she have come for ?
Was she a real witch after all ?
For a moment she wish she have n't come .
Perhaps it be not right to tamper with the power of darkness .
Peggy Buchanan be notoriously unhappy .
If Janet have know how to get herself away , she would have go without ask for anything .
Then a sound come from the lean-to behind the house .
`` S-s-h .
I hear the devil grunting like a pig , '' mutter Granny , look very impish .
But Janet smile a little contemptuously .
She know it be a pig and no devil .
Granny Thomas be only an old fraud .
Her awe pass away and leave her cool Sparhallow .
`` Can you , '' she say with her own directness , `` make a -- a person care for another person -- care -- very much ? ''
Granny remove her pipe and chuckle .
`` What you want be toad ointment , '' she say .
Toad ointment !
Janet shudder .
That do not sound very nice .
Granny notice the shudder .
`` Nothing like it , '' she say , nod her crone-like old grey head .
`` There 's other thing , but noan so sure .
Put a li'l bit -- oh , such a li'l bit -- on his eyelid , and he 's yourn for life .
You need something powerful -- you 're noan so pretty -- only when you 're blush . ''
Janet be blush again .
So Granny think she want the charm for herself !
Well , what do it matter ?
Randall be the only one to be consider .
`` Is it very -- expensive ? ''
she falter .
She have not much money .
Money be no plentiful thing on a P.E.I . farm in 1840 .
`` Oh , noa -- oh , noa , '' Granny leer .
`` I do n't sell it .
I give it .
I like to see young folk happy .
You do n't need much , a I 've say -- just a li'l smootch and you 'll have your man , and send old Granny a bite o ' the wedding cake and fig o ' baccy for luck , and a bid to the fir-r-st christening !
Doa n't forget that , dearie . ''
Janet be cold again with anger .
She hat old Granny Thomas .
She would never come near her again .
`` I 'd rather pay you it worth , '' she say coldly .
`` You could n't , dearie .
What money could be eno ' for such a treasure ?
But that 's the Sparhallow pride .
Well , go , see if the Sparhallow pride and the Sparhallow money will buy you your lad 's love . ''
Granny look so angry that Janet hasten to appease her .
`` Oh , please forgive me -- I mean no offence .
Only -- it must have cost you much trouble to make it . ''
Granny chuckle again .
She be vastly pleased to see a Sparhallow suing to her -- a Sparhallow !
`` Toads be cheap , '' she say .
`` It 's all in the knowing how and the time o ' the moon .
Here , take this li'l pill box -- there 's eno ' in it -- and put a li'l bit on his eyelid when you 've getten the chance -- and when he look at you , he 'll love you .
Mind you , though , that he look at no other first -- it 's the first one he see that he 'll love .
That 's the way it work . ''
`` Thank you . ''
Janet take the little box .
She wish she dare to go at once .
But perhaps this would anger Granny .
Granny look at her with a twinkle in her little , incredibly old eye .
`` Be off , '' she say .
`` You 're in a hurry to go -- you 're as proud a any of the proud Sparhallows .
But I bear you no grudge .
I like proud people -- when they have to come to me to get help . ''
Janet find herself outside with a relieved heart in her bosom and her little box in her hand .
For a moment she be tempt to throw it away .
But no -- Randall would be so unhappy if he find out Avery do n't love him !
She would try the ointment at least -- she would try to forget about the toad and not let herself think how it be make -- something might come of it .
* * * * * Janet hurry home along the shore , where a silvery wave break in a little lovely silvery curve on the sand .
She be so happy that her cheek burn , and Randall Burnley , who be sit on the edge of her flat when she reach the pond , look at her with admiration .
Janet drop her box into her pocket stealthily when she saw him .
What with her guilty secret , she hardly know whether she be glad or not when he say he be go to row her up the pond .
`` I saw you go down an hour ago and I 've be wait ever since , '' he say .
`` Where have you be ? ''
`` Oh -- I just -- want a walk -- this lovely day , '' say Janet miserably .
She felt that she be tell an untruth and this hurt her horribly -- especially when it be to Randall .
This be what come of truck with witch -- you be lead into falsehood and deception straightaway .
Again Janet be tempt to drop Granny 's pill box into the depth of Burnley Pond -- and again she decide not to because she saw Randall Burnley 's deep-set , blue-grey eye , that could look tender or sorrowful or passionate or whimsical a he will , and think how they would look when he find Avery do not love him .
So Janet drown the voice of conscience and be brazenly happy -- happy because Randall Burnley row her up the pond -- happy because he walk halfway home with her over the autumnal field -- happy because he talk of the day and the sea and the golden weather , a only Randall could talk .
But she think she be happy because she have in her pocket what might make Avery love him .
Randall go as far a the stile in the birch wood between the Burnley and the Sparhallow land -- and he keep her there talk for another half-hour -- and though he talk only of a book he have read and a new puppy he be train , Janet listen with her soul in her ear .
She talk too -- quite freely ; she be never in the least shy or tongue-tied or awkward in Randall 's company .
There she be always at her best , with a delightful feeling of be understood .
She wonder if he notice she have her hair do up .
Her eye shone and her brown face be full of rosy , kissable hue .
When he finally turn away homeward , life go flat .
Janet decide she be very tired after her long walk and her try interview .
But it do not matter , since she have her love potion .
That be so much nicer a name than toad ointment .
That night Janet rub mutton tallow on her hand .
She have never do that before -- she have think it vain and foolish -- though Avery do it every night .
But that afternoon on the pond Randall have say something about the beautiful shape of her pretty slender hand .
He have never pay her a compliment before .
Her hand be brown and a little hard -- not soft and white like Avery 's .
So Janet resort to the mutton tallow .
If one have a scrap of beauty , if only in one 's hand , one might as well take care of it .
Having get her ointment , the next thing be to make use of it .
This be not so easy -- because , in the first place , it must not be do when there be any danger of Avery 's see some other than Randall first -- and it must be do without Avery 's know it .
The two problem combine be almost too much for Janet .
She bid her chance like a watchful cat -- but it do not come .
Two week go by and it have not come .
Janet be get very desperate .
The wedding day be only a week away .
The bride 's cake be make and the turkey fatten .
The invitation be send out .
Janet 's own bridesmaid dress be ready .
And still the little pill box in the till of Janet 's blue chest be unopened .
She have never even open it , l virtue escape .
Then her chance come at last , unexpectedly .
One evening at dusk , when Janet be cross the little dark upstairs hall , Aunt Matilda call up to her .
`` Janet , send Avery down .
There be a young man want to see her . ''
Aunt Matilda be laugh a little -- a she always do when Randall come .
It be a habit with her , hang over from the early day of Randall 's courtship .
Janet go on into their room to tell Avery .
And lo , Avery be lie asleep on her bed , tire out from her busy day .
Janet , after one glance , fly to her chest .
She take out her pill box and open it , a little fearfully .
The toad ointment be there , dark and unpleasant enough to view .
Janet tiptoe breathlessly to the bed and gingerly scrap the tip of her finger in the ointment .
She say so little would be enough -- oh , I hope I 'm not do wrong .
Trembling with excitement , she brush lightly the white lid of Avery 's eye .
Avery stir and open them .
Janet guiltily thrust her pill box behind her .
`` Randall be downstairs ask for you , Avery . ''
Avery sit up , look annoy .
She have not expect Randall that evening and would greatly have prefer a continuance of her nap .
She go down crossly enough , but look very lovely , flush from sleep .
Janet stand in their room , clasp her cold hand nervously over her breast .
Would the charm work ?
Oh , she must know -- she must know .
She could not wait .
After a few moment that seem like year she creep down the stair and out into the dusk of the June-warm September night .
Like a shadow she slip up to the open parlour window and look cautiously in between the white muslin curtain .
The next minute she have fall on her knee in the mint bed .
She wish she could die then and there .
The young man in the parlour be not Randall Burnley .
He be dark and smart and handsome ; he be sit on the sofa by Avery 's side , hold her hand in his , smile into her rosy , delighted , excited face .
And he be Bruce Gordon -- no doubt of that .
Bruce Gordon , the expect cousin from Scotland !
`` Oh , what have I do ?
What have I do ? ''
moan poor Janet , wring her hand .
She have see Avery 's face quite plainly -- have see the look in her eye .
Avery have never look at Randall Burnley like that .
Granny Thomas ' abominable ointment have work all right -- and Avery have fall in love with the wrong man .
Janet , cold with horror and remorse , drag herself up to the window again and listen .
She must know -- she must be sure .
She could hear only a word here and there , but that word be enough .
`` I think you promise to wait for me , Avery , '' Bruce say reproachfully .
`` You be so long in come back -- I think you have forget me , '' cry Avery .
`` I think I do forget a little , Avery .
I be such a boy .
But now -- well , thank Heaven , I have n't come too late . ''
There be a silence , and shameless Janet , peer above the window sill , saw what she saw .
It be enough .
She creep away upstairs to her room .
She be lie there across the bed when Avery sweep in -- a splendid , transfigure Avery , flush triumphant .
Janet sit up , pallid , tear-stained , and look at her .
`` Janet , '' say Avery , `` I be go to marry Bruce Gordon next Wednesday night instead of Randall Burnley . ''
Janet sprang forward and catch Avery 's hand .
`` You must not , '' she cry wildly .
`` It 's all my fault -- oh , if I could only die -- I get the love ointment from Granny Thomas to rub on your eye to make you love the first man you would see .
I mean it to be Randall -- I think it be Randall -- oh , Avery ! ''
Avery have be listen , between amazement and anger .
Now anger master amazement .
`` Janet Sparhallow , '' she cry , `` be you crazy ?
Or do you mean that you go to Granny Thomas -- you , a Sparhallow !
-- and ask her for a love philtre to make me love Randall Burnley ? ''
`` I do n't tell her it be for you -- she think I want it for myself , '' moan Janet .
`` Oh , we must undo it -- I 'll go to her again -- no doubt she know of some way to undo the spell -- '' Avery , whose rage never last long , throw back her dark head and laugh ringingly .
`` Janet Sparhallow , you talk a if you live in the dark age !
The idea of suppose that horrid old woman could give you love philtre !
Why , girl , I 've always love Bruce -- always .
But I think he 'd forget me .
And tonight when he come I find he have n't .
There 's the whole thing in a nutshell .
I 'm go to marry him and go home with him to Scotland . ''
`` And what about Randall ? ''
say Janet , corpse-white .
`` Oh , Randall -- pooh !
Do you suppose I 'm worry about Randall ?
But you must go to him tomorrow and tell him for me , Janet . ''
`` I will not -- I will not . ''
`` Then I 'll tell him myself -- and I 'll tell him about you go to Granny , '' say Avery cruelly .
`` Janet , do n't stand there look like that .
I 've no patience with you .
I shall be perfectly happy with Bruce -- I would have be miserable with Randall .
I know I sha n't sleep a wink tonight -- I 'm so excited .
Why , Janet , I 'll be Mrs. Gordon of Gordon Brae -- and I 'll have everything heart can desire and the man of my heart to boot .
What have lanky Randall Burnley with his little six-roomed house to set against that ? ''
If Avery do not sleep , neither do Janet .
She lay awake till dawn , suffer such misery a she have never endure in her life before .
She know she must go to Randall Burnley tomorrow and break his heart .
If she do not , Avery would tell him -- tell him what Janet have do .
And he must not know that -- he must not .
Janet could not bear that thought .
* * * * * It be a pallid , dull-eyed Janet who go through the birch wood to the Burnley farm next afternoon , leave behind her an excited household where the sudden change of bridegroom , a announce by Avery , have rather upset everybody .
Janet find Randall work in the garden of his new house -- set out rosebush for Avery -- Avery , who be to jilt him at the very altar , so to speak .
He come over to open the gate for Janet , smile his dear smile .
It be a dear smile -- Janet catch her breath over the dearness of it -- and she be go to blot it off his face .
She speak out , with plainness and directness .
When you have to deal a mortal blow , why try to lighten it ?
`` Avery send me to tell you that she be go to marry Bruce Gordon instead of you .
He come last night -- and she say that she have always like him best . ''
A very curious change come over Randall 's face -- but not the change Janet have expect to see .
Instead of turn pale Randall flush ; and instead of a sharp cry of pain and incredulity , Randall say in no uncertain tone , `` Thank God ! ''
Janet wonder if she be dream .
Granny Thomas ' love potion seem to have turn the world upside down .
For Randall 's arm be about her and Randall be press his lean bronze cheek to hers and Randall be say : `` Now I can tell you , Janet , how much I love you . ''
`` Me ?
Me ! ''
choked Janet .
`` You .
Why , you 're in the very core of my heart , girl .
Do n't tell me you ca n't love me -- you can -- you must -- why , Janet , '' for his eye have catch and lock with hers for a minute , `` you do ! ''
There be five minute about which nobody can tell anything , for even Randall and Janet never know clearly just what happen in those five minute .
Then Janet , feel somehow a if she have die and then come back to life , find her tongue .
`` Three year ago you come court Avery , '' she say reproachfully .
`` Three year ago you be a child .
I do not think about you .
I want a wife -- and Avery be pretty .
I think I be in love with her .
Then you grow up all at once -- and we be such good friend -- I never could talk to Avery -- she be n't interested in anything I say -- and you have eye that catch a man -- I 've always think of your eye .
But I be honour-bound to Avery -- I do n't dream you care .
You must marry me next Wednesday , Janet -- we 'll have a double wedding .
You wo n't mind -- be marry -- so soon ? ''
`` Oh , no -- I wo n't -- mind , '' say Janet dazedly .
`` Only -- oh , Randall -- I must tell you -- I do n't mean to tell you -- I 'd have rather die -- but now -- I must tell you about it now -- because I ca n't bear anything hidden between u .
I go to old Granny Thomas -- and get a love ointment from her -- to make Avery love you , because I know she do n't -- and I want you to be happy -- Randall , do n't -- I ca n't talk when you do that !
Do you think Granny 's ointment could have make her care for Bruce ? ''
Randall laugh -- the little , low laugh of the triumphant lover .
`` If it do , I 'm glad of it .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Rainbow_Valley.txt.out
CHAPTER I . HOME AGAIN It be a clear , apple-green evening in May , and Four Winds Harbour be mirror back the cloud of the golden west between it softly dark shore .
The sea moan eerily on the sand-bar , sorrowful even in spring , but a sly , jovial wind come pip down the red harbour road along which Miss Cornelia 's comfortable , matronly figure be make it way towards the village of Glen St. Mary .
Miss Cornelia be rightfully Mrs. Marshall Elliott , and have be Mrs. Marshall Elliott for thirteen year , but even yet more people refer to her a Miss Cornelia than a Mrs. Elliott .
The old name be dear to her old friend , only one of them contemptuously drop it .
Susan Baker , the gray and grim and faithful handmaiden of the Blythe family at Ingleside , never lose an opportunity of call her `` Mrs. Marshall Elliott , '' with the most killing and pointed emphasis , a if to say `` You want to be Mrs. and Mrs. you shall be with a vengeance as far a I be concerned . ''
Miss Cornelia be go up to Ingleside to see Dr. and Mrs. Blythe , who be just home from Europe .
They have be away for three month , have leave in February to attend a famous medical congress in London ; and certain thing , which Miss Cornelia be anxious to discuss , have take place in the Glen during their absence .
For one thing , there be a new family in the manse .
And such a family !
Miss Cornelia shake her head over them several time a she walk briskly along .
Susan Baker and the Anne Shirley of other day saw her come , a they sit on the big veranda at Ingleside , enjoy the charm of the cat 's light , the sweetness of sleepy robin whistle among the twilit maple , and the dance of a gusty group of daffodil blow against the old , mellow , red brick wall of the lawn .
Anne be sit on the step , her hand clasp over her knee , look , in the kind dusk , as girlish a a mother of many have any right to be ; and the beautiful gray-green eye , gaze down the harbour road , be a full of unquenchable sparkle and dream a ever .
Behind her , in the hammock , Rilla Blythe be curl up , a fat , roly-poly little creature of six year , the young of the Ingleside child .
She have curly red hair and hazel eye that be now button up after the funny , wrinkled fashion in which Rilla always go to sleep .
Shirley , `` the little brown boy , '' a he be know in the family `` Who 's Who , '' be asleep in Susan 's arm .
He be brown-haired , brown-eyed and brown-skinned , with very rosy cheek , and he be Susan 's especial love .
After his birth Anne have be very ill for a long time , and Susan `` mother '' the baby with a passionate tenderness which none of the other child , dear a they be to her , have ever call out .
Dr. Blythe have say that but for her he would never have live .
`` I give him life just as much a you do , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan be wont to say .
`` He be just as much my baby a he be yours . ''
And , indeed , it be always to Susan that Shirley run , to be kiss for bump , and rock to sleep , and protect from well-deserved spanking .
Susan have conscientiously spank all the other Blythe child when she think they need it for their soul ' good , but she would not spank Shirley nor allow his mother to do it .
Once , Dr. Blythe have spank him and Susan have be stormily indignant .
`` That man would spank an angel , Mrs. Dr. dear , that he would , '' she have declare bitterly ; and she would not make the poor doctor a pie for week .
She have take Shirley with her to her brother 's home during his parent ' absence , while all the other child have go to Avonlea , and she have three bless month of him all to herself .
Nevertheless , Susan be very glad to find herself back at Ingleside , with all her darling around her again .
Ingleside be her world and in it she reign supreme .
Even Anne seldom question her decision , much to the disgust of Mrs. Rachel Lynde of Green Gables , who gloomily tell Anne , whenever she visit Four Winds , that she be let Susan get to be entirely too much of a bos and would live to rue it .
`` Here be Cornelia Bryant come up the harbour road , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` She will be come up to unload three month ' gossip on u . ''
`` I hope so , '' say Anne , hug her knee .
`` I 'm starve for Glen St. Mary gossip , Susan .
I hope Miss Cornelia can tell me everything that have happen while we 've be away -- EVERYTHING -- who have get bear , or marry , or drunk ; who have die , or go away , or come , or fought , or lose a cow , or find a beau .
It 's so delightful to be home again with all the dear Glen folk , and I want to know all about them .
Why , I remember wonder , a I walk through Westminster Abbey which of her two especial beaux Millicent Drew would finally marry .
Do you know , Susan , I have a dreadful suspicion that I love gossip . ''
`` Well , of course , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' admit Susan , `` every proper woman like to hear the news .
I be rather interested in Millicent Drew 's case myself .
I never have a beau , much less two , and I do not mind now , for be an old maid do not hurt when you get use to it .
Millicent 's hair always look to me a if she have sweep it up with a broom .
But the men do not seem to mind that . ''
`` They see only her pretty , piquant , mock , little face , Susan . ''
`` That may very well be , Mrs. Dr. dear .
The Good Book say that favour be deceitful and beauty be vain , but I should not have mind finding that out for myself , if it have be so ordained .
I have no doubt we will all be beautiful when we be angels , but what good will it do u then ?
Speaking of gossip , however , they do say that poor Mrs. Harrison Miller over harbour try to hang herself last week . ''
`` Oh , Susan ! ''
`` Calm yourself , Mrs. Dr. dear .
She do not succeed .
But I really do not blame her for try , for her husband be a terrible man .
But she be very foolish to think of hang herself and leave the way clear for him to marry some other woman .
If I have be in her shoe , Mrs. Dr. dear , I would have go to work to worry him so that he would try to hang himself instead of me .
Not that I hold with people hang themselves under any circumstance , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` What be the matter with Harrison Miller , anyway ? ''
say Anne impatiently .
`` He be always drive some one to extremes . ''
`` Well , some people call it religion and some call it cussedness , beg your pardon , Mrs. Dr. dear , for use such a word .
It seem they can not make out which it be in Harrison 's case .
There be day when he growl at everybody because he think he be fore-ordained to eternal punishment .
And then there be day when he say he do not care and go and get drunk .
My own opinion be that he be not sound in his intellect , for none of that branch of the Millers be .
His grandfather go out of his mind .
He think he be surround by big black spider .
They crawl over him and float in the air about him .
I hope I shall never go insane , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I do not think I will , because it be not a habit of the Bakers .
But , if an all-wise Providence should decree it , I hope it will not take the form of big black spider , for I loathe the animal .
As for Mrs. Miller , I do not know whether she really deserve pity or not .
There be some who say she just marry Harrison to spite Richard Taylor , which seem to me a very peculiar reason for get marry .
But then , of course , I be no judge of thing matrimonial , Mrs. Dr. dear .
And there be Cornelia Bryant at the gate , so I will put this bless brown baby on his bed and get my knitting . ''
CHAPTER II .
SHEER GOSSIP `` Where be the other child ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia , when the first greeting -- cordial on her side , rapturous on Anne 's , and dignify on Susan 's -- be over .
`` Shirley be in bed and Jem and Walter and the twin be down in their beloved Rainbow Valley , '' say Anne .
`` They just come home this afternoon , you know , and they could hardly wait until supper be over before rush down to the valley .
They love it above every spot on earth .
Even the maple grove do n't rival it in their affection . ''
`` I be afraid they love it too well , '' say Susan gloomily .
`` Little Jem say once he would rather go to Rainbow Valley than to heaven when he die , and that be not a proper remark . ''
`` I suppose they have a great time in Avonlea ? ''
say Miss Cornelia .
`` Enormous .
Marilla do spoil them terribly .
Jem , in particular , can do no wrong in her eye . ''
`` Miss Cuthbert must be an old lady now , '' say Miss Cornelia , get out her knitting , so that she could hold her own with Susan .
Miss Cornelia hold that the woman whose hand be employ always have the advantage over the woman whose hand be not .
`` Marilla be eighty-five , '' say Anne with a sigh .
`` Her hair be snow-white .
But , strange to say , her eyesight be good than it be when she be sixty . ''
`` Well , dearie , I 'm real glad you 're all back .
I 've be dreadful lonesome .
But we have n't be dull in the Glen , believe ME .
There have n't be such an exciting spring in my time , as far a church matter go .
We 've get settle with a minister at last , Anne dearie . ''
`` The Reverend John Knox Meredith , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , resolve not to let Miss Cornelia tell all the news .
`` Is he nice ? ''
ask Anne interestedly .
Miss Cornelia sigh and Susan groan .
`` Yes , he 's nice enough if that be all , '' say the former .
`` He be VERY nice -- and very learned -- and very spiritual .
But , oh Anne dearie , he have no common sense !
`` How be it you call him , then ? ''
`` Well , there 's no doubt he be by far the best preacher we ever have in Glen St. Mary church , '' say Miss Cornelia , veer a tack or two .
`` I suppose it be because he be so moony and absent-minded that he never get a town call .
His trial sermon be simply wonderful , believe ME .
Every one go mad about it -- and his look . ''
`` He be VERY comely , Mrs. Dr. dear , and when all be say and do , I DO like to see a well-looking man in the pulpit , '' break in Susan , think it be time she assert herself again .
`` Besides , '' say Miss Cornelia , `` we be anxious to get settle .
And Mr. Meredith be the first candidate we be all agree on .
Somebody have some objection to all the others .
There be some talk of call Mr. Folsom .
He be a good preacher , too , but somehow people do n't care for his appearance .
He be too dark and sleek . ''
`` He look exactly like a great black tomcat , that he do , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` I never could abide such a man in the pulpit every Sunday . ''
`` Then Mr. Rogers come and he be like a chip in porridge -- neither harm nor good , '' resume Miss Cornelia .
`` But if he have preach like Peter and Paul it would have profit him nothing , for that be the day old Caleb Ramsay 's sheep stray into church and give a loud ` ba-a-a ' just a he announce his text .
Everybody laugh , and poor Rogers have no chance after that .
Some think we ought to call Mr. Stewart , because he be so well educate .
He could read the New Testament in five language . ''
`` But I do not think he be any sure than other men of get to heaven because of that , '' interject Susan .
`` Most of u do n't like his delivery , '' say Miss Cornelia , ignore Susan .
`` He talk in grunt , so to speak .
And Mr. Arnett could n't preach AT ALL .
And he pick about the bad candidating text there be in the Bible -- ` Curse ye Meroz . ' ''
`` Whenever he get stick for an idea , he would bang the Bible and shout very bitterly , ` Curse ye Meroz . '
Poor Meroz get thoroughly curse that day , whoever he be , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` The minister who be candidating ca n't be too careful what text he choose , '' say Miss Cornelia solemnly .
`` I believe Mr. Pierson would have get the call if he have pick a different text .
But when he announce ' I will lift my eye to the hill ' HE be do for .
Every one grin , for every one knew that those two Hill girl from the Harbour Head have be set their cap for every single minister who come to the Glen for the last fifteen year .
And Mr. Newman have too large a family . ''
`` He stay with my brother-in-law , James Clow , '' say Susan . ''
` How many child have you get ? '
I ask him .
` Nine boy and a sister for each of them , ' he say .
` Eighteen ! '
say I . ` Dear me , what a family ! '
And then he laugh and laugh .
But I do not know why , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I be certain that eighteen child would be too many for any manse . ''
`` He have only ten child , Susan , '' explain Miss Cornelia , with contemptuous patience .
`` And ten good child would not be much bad for the manse and congregation than the four who be there now .
Though I would n't say , Anne dearie , that they be so bad , either .
I like them -- everybody like them .
It 's impossible to help like them .
They would be real nice little souls if there be anyone to look after their manner and teach them what be right and proper .
For instance , at school the teacher say they be model child .
But at home they simply run wild . ''
`` What about Mrs. Meredith ? ''
ask Anne .
`` There 's NO Mrs. Meredith .
That be just the trouble .
Mr. Meredith be a widower .
His wife die four year ago .
If we have know that I do n't suppose we would have call him , for a widower be even bad in a congregation than a single man .
But he be hear to speak of his child and we all suppose there be a mother , too .
And when they come there be nobody but old Aunt Martha , a they call her .
She 's a cousin of Mr. Meredith 's mother , I believe , and he take her in to save her from the poorhouse .
She be seventy-five year old , half blind , and very deaf and very cranky . ''
`` And a very poor cook , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` The bad possible manager for a manse , '' say Miss Cornelia bitterly .
`` Mr. Meredith wo n't get any other housekeeper because he say it would hurt Aunt Martha 's feeling .
Anne dearie , believe me , the state of that manse be something terrible .
Everything be thick with dust and nothing be ever in it place .
And we have paint and paper it all so nice before they come . ''
`` There be four child , you say ? ''
ask Anne , begin to mother them already in her heart .
`` Yes .
They run up just like the step of a stair .
Gerald 's the old .
He 's twelve and they call him Jerry .
He 's a clever boy .
Faith be eleven .
She be a regular tomboy but pretty a a picture , I must say . ''
`` She look like an angel but she be a holy terror for mischief , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan solemnly .
`` I be at the manse one night last week and Mrs. James Millison be there , too .
She have bring them up a dozen egg and a little pail of milk -- a VERY little pail , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Faith take them and whisk down the cellar with them .
Near the bottom of the stair she catch her toe and fell the rest of the way , milk and egg and all .
You can imagine the result , Mrs. Dr. dear .
But that child come up laugh . '
I do n't know whether I 'm myself or a custard pie , ' she say .
And Mrs. James Millison be very angry .
She say she would never take another thing to the manse if it be to be waste and destroy in that fashion . ''
`` Maria Millison never hurt herself take thing to the manse , '' sniff Miss Cornelia .
`` She just take them that night a an excuse for curiosity .
But poor Faith be always get into scrape .
She be so heedless and impulsive . ''
`` Just like me .
I 'm go to like your Faith , '' say Anne decidedly .
`` She be full of spunk -- and I do like spunk , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' admit Susan .
`` There 's something take about her , '' concede Miss Cornelia .
`` You never see her but she 's laughing , and somehow it always make you want to laugh too .
She ca n't even keep a straight face in church .
Una be ten -- she 's a sweet little thing -- not pretty , but sweet .
And Thomas Carlyle be nine .
They call him Carl , and he have a regular mania for collect toad and bug and frog and bring them into the house . ''
`` I suppose he be responsible for the dead rat that be lie on a chair in the parlour the afternoon Mrs. Grant call .
It give her a turn , '' say Susan , `` and I do not wonder , for manse parlour be no place for dead rat .
To be sure it may have be the cat who leave it , there .
HE be a full of the old Nick a he can be stuff , Mrs. Dr. dear .
A manse cat should at least LOOK respectable , in my opinion , whatever he really be .
But I never saw such a rakish-looking beast .
And he walk along the ridgepole of the manse almost every evening at sunset , Mrs. Dr. dear , and wave his tail , and that be not become . ''
`` The bad of it be , they be NEVER decently dress , '' sigh Miss Cornelia .
`` And since the snow go they go to school barefooted .
Now , you know Anne dearie , that be n't the right thing for manse child -- especially when the Methodist minister 's little girl always wear such nice button boot .
And I DO wish they would n't play in the old Methodist graveyard . ''
`` It 's very tempting , when it 's right beside the manse , '' say Anne .
`` I 've always think graveyard must be delightful place to play in . ''
`` Oh , no , you do not , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say loyal Susan , determine to protect Anne from herself .
`` You have too much good sense and decorum . ''
`` Why do they ever build that manse beside the graveyard in the first place ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Their lawn be so small there be no place for them to play except in the graveyard . ''
`` It WAS a mistake , '' admit Miss Cornelia .
`` But they get the lot cheap .
And no other manse child ever think of play there .
Mr. Meredith should n't allow it .
But he have always get his nose bury in a book , when he be home .
He read and read , or walk about in his study in a day-dream .
So far he have n't forget to be in church on Sundays , but twice he have forget about the prayer-meeting and one of the elder have to go over to the manse and remind him .
And he forget about Fanny Cooper 's wedding .
They ring him up on the ` phone and then he rush right over , just a he be , carpet slipper and all .
One would n't mind if the Methodists do n't laugh so about it .
But there 's one comfort -- they ca n't criticize his sermon .
He wake up when he 's in the pulpit , believe ME .
And the Methodist minister ca n't preach at all -- so they tell me .
I have never hear him , thank goodness . ''
Miss Cornelia 's scorn of men have abate somewhat since her marriage , but her scorn of Methodists remain untinged of charity .
Susan smile slyly .
`` They do say , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , that the Methodists and Presbyterians be talk of uniting , '' she say .
`` Well , all I hope be that I 'll be under the sod if that ever come to pass , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` I shall never have truck or trade with Methodists , and Mr. Meredith will find that he 'd better steer clear of them , too .
He be entirely too sociable with them , believe ME .
Why , he go to the Jacob Drews ' silver-wedding supper and get into a nice scrape a a result . ''
`` What be it ? ''
`` Mrs. Drew ask him to carve the roast goose -- for Jacob Drew never do or could carve .
Well , Mr. Meredith tackle it , and in the process he knock it clean off the platter into Mrs. Reese 's lap , who be sit next him .
And he just say dreamily .
` Mrs. Reese , will you kindly return me that goose ? '
Mrs. Reese ` return ' it , as meek a Moses , but she must have be furious , for she have on her new silk dress .
The bad of it be , she be a Methodist . ''
`` But I think that be good than if she be a Presbyterian , '' interject Susan .
`` If she have be a Presbyterian she would mostly likely have leave the church and we can not afford to lose our member .
And Mrs. Reese be not like in her own church , because she give herself such great air , so that the Methodists would be rather pleased that Mr. Meredith spoil her dress . ''
`` The point be , he make himself ridiculous , and I , for one , do not like to see my minister make ridiculous in the eye of the Methodists , '' say Miss Cornelia stiffly .
`` If he have have a wife it would not have happen . ''
`` I do not see if he have a dozen wive how they could have prevent Mrs. Drew from use up her tough old gander for the wedding-feast , '' say Susan stubbornly .
`` They say that be her husband 's do , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Jacob Drew be a conceited , stingy , domineering creature . ''
`` And they do say he and his wife detest each other -- which do not seem to me the proper way for married folk to get along .
But then , of course , I have have no experience along that line , '' say Susan , toss her head .
`` And I be not one to blame everything on the men .
Mrs. Drew be mean enough herself .
They say that the only thing she be ever know to give away be a crock of butter make out of cream a rat have fell into .
She contribute it to a church social .
Nobody find out about the rat until afterwards . ''
`` Fortunately , all the people the Merediths have offend so far be Methodists , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` That Jerry go to the Methodist prayer-meeting one night about a fortnight ago and sit beside old William Marsh who get up as usual and testified with fearful groan .
` Do you feel any good now ? ''
whisper Jerry when William sit down .
Poor Jerry mean to be sympathetic , but Mr. Marsh think he be impertinent and be furious at him .
Of course , Jerry have no business to be in a Methodist prayer-meeting at all .
But they go where they like . ''
`` I hope they will not offend Mrs. Alec Davis of the Harbour Head , '' say Susan .
`` She be a very touchy woman , I understand , but she be very well off and pay the most of any one to the salary .
I have hear that she say the Merediths be the bad bring up child she ever saw . ''
`` Every word you say convinces me more and more that the Merediths belong to the race that know Joseph , '' say Mistress Anne decidedly .
`` When all be say and do , they DO , '' admit Miss Cornelia .
`` And that balance everything .
Anyway , we 've get them now and we must just do the best we can by them and stick up for them to the Methodists .
Well , I suppose I must be get down harbour .
Marshall will soon be home -- he go over-harbour to-day -- and want his super , man-like .
I 'm sorry I have n't see the other child .
And where 's the doctor ? ''
`` Up at the Harbour Head .
We 've only be home three day and in that time he have spend three hour in his own bed and eat two meal in his own house . ''
`` Well , everybody who have be sick for the last six week have be wait for him to come home -- and I do n't blame them .
When that over-harbour doctor marry the undertaker 's daughter at Lowbridge people felt suspicious of him .
It do n't look well .
You and the doctor must come down soon and tell u all about your trip .
I suppose you 've have a splendid time . ''
`` We have , '' agree Anne .
`` It be the fulfilment of year of dream .
The old world be very lovely and very wonderful .
But we have come back very well satisfy with our own land .
Canada be the fine country in the world , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Nobody ever doubt that , '' say Miss Cornelia , complacently .
`` And old P.E.I . be the lovely province in it and Four Winds the lovely spot in P.E.I . , '' laugh Anne , look adoringly out over the sunset splendour of glen and harbour and gulf .
She wave her hand at it .
`` I saw nothing more beautiful than that in Europe , Miss Cornelia .
Must you go ?
The child will be sorry to have miss you . ''
`` They must come and see me soon .
Tell them the doughnut jar be always full . ''
`` Oh , at supper they be plan a descent on you .
They 'll go soon ; but they must settle down to school again now .
And the twin be go to take music lesson . ''
`` Not from the Methodist minister 's wife , I hope ? ''
say Miss Cornelia anxiously .
`` No -- from Rosemary West .
I be up last evening to arrange it with her .
What a pretty girl she be ! ''
`` Rosemary hold her own well .
She be n't as young a she once be . ''
`` I think her very charm .
I 've never have any real acquaintance with her , you know .
Their house be so out of the way , and I 've seldom ever see her except at church . ''
`` People always have like Rosemary West , though they do n't understand her , '' say Miss Cornelia , quite unconscious of the high tribute she be pay to Rosemary 's charm .
`` Ellen have always keep her down , so to speak .
She have tyrannize over her , and yet she have always indulge her in a good many way .
Rosemary be engage once , you know -- to young Martin Crawford .
His ship be wreck on the Magdalens and all the crew be drown .
Rosemary be just a child -- only seventeen .
But she be never the same afterwards .
She and Ellen have stay very close at home since their mother 's death .
They do n't often get to their own church at Lowbridge and I understand Ellen do n't approve of go too often to a Presbyterian church .
To the Methodist she NEVER go , I 'll say that much for her .
That family of Wests have always be strong Episcopalians .
Rosemary and Ellen be pretty well off .
Rosemary do n't really need to give music lesson .
She do it because she like to .
They be distantly relate to Leslie , you know .
Are the Fords come to the harbour this summer ? ''
`` No .
They be go on a trip to Japan and will probably be away for a year .
Owen 's new novel be to have a Japanese setting .
This will be the first summer that the dear old House of Dreams will be empty since we leave it . ''
`` I should think Owen Ford might find enough to write about in Canada without drag his wife and his innocent child off to a heathen country like Japan , '' grumble Miss Cornelia . ''
The Life Book be the best book he 's ever write and he get the material for that right here in Four Winds . ''
`` Captain Jim give him the most of that , you know .
And he collect it all over the world .
But Owen 's book be all delightful , I think . ''
`` Oh , they 're well enough as far a they go .
I make it a point to read every one he write , though I 've always hold , Anne dearie , that read novel be a sinful waste of time .
I shall write and tell him my opinion of this Japanese business , believe ME .
Does he want Kenneth and Persis to be convert into pagan ? ''
With which unanswerable conundrum Miss Cornelia take her departure .
Susan proceed to put Rilla in bed and Anne sit on the veranda step under the early star and dream her incorrigible dream and learn all over again for the hundredth happy time what a moonrise splendour and sheen could be on Four Winds Harbour .
CHAPTER III .
THE INGLESIDE CHILDREN In daytime the Blythe child like very well to play in the rich , soft green and gloom of the big maple grove between Ingleside and the Glen St. Mary pond ; but for even revel there be no place like the little valley behind the maple grove .
It be a fairy realm of romance to them .
Once , look from the attic window of Ingleside , through the mist and aftermath of a summer thunderstorm , they have see the beloved spot arch by a glorious rainbow , one end of which seem to dip straight down to where a corner of the pond run up into the low end of the valley .
`` Let u call it Rainbow Valley , '' say Walter delightedly , and Rainbow Valley thenceforth it be .
Outside of Rainbow Valley the wind might be rollick and boisterous .
Here it always go gently .
Little , wind , fairy path run here and there over spruce root cushion with moss .
Wild cherry tree , that in blossom time would be misty white , be scatter all over the valley , mingle with the dark spruce .
A little brook with amber water run through it from the Glen village .
The house of the village be comfortably far away ; only at the upper end of the valley be a little tumble-down , deserted cottage , refer to a `` the old Bailey house . ''
It have not be occupy for many year , but a grass-grown dyke surround it and inside be an ancient garden where the Ingleside child could find violet and daisy and June lily still bloom in season .
For the rest , the garden be overgrow with caraway that sway and foam in the moonshine of summer eve like sea of silver .
To the seek lay the pond and beyond it the ripen distance lose itself in purple wood , save where , on a high hill , a solitary old gray homestead look down on glen and harbour .
There be a certain wild woodsiness and solitude about Rainbow Valley , in spite of it nearness to the village , which endear it to the child of Ingleside .
The valley be full of dear , friendly hollow and the large of these be their favourite stamping ground .
Here they be assemble on this particular evening .
There be a grove of young spruce in this hollow , with a tiny , grassy glade in it heart , open on the bank of the brook .
By the brook grow a silver birch-tree , a young , incredibly straight thing which Walter have name the `` White Lady . ''
In this glade , too , be the `` Tree Lovers , '' a Walter call a spruce and maple which grow so closely together that their bough be inextricably intertwine .
Jem have hang an old string of sleigh-bells , give him by the Glen blacksmith , on the Tree Lovers , and every visitant breeze call out sudden fairy tinkle from it .
`` How nice it be to be back ! ''
say Nan .
`` After all , none of the Avonlea place be quite as nice a Rainbow Valley . ''
But they be very fond of the Avonlea place for all that .
A visit to Green Gables be always consider a great treat .
Aunt Marilla be very good to them , and so be Mrs. Rachel Lynde , who be spend the leisure of her old age in knit cotton-warp quilt against the day when Anne 's daughter should need a `` setting-out . ''
There be jolly playmates there , too -- `` Uncle '' Davy 's child and `` Aunt '' Diana 's child .
They know all the spot their mother have love so well in her girlhood at old Green Gables -- the long Lover 's Lane , that be pink-hedged in wild-rose time , the always neat yard , with it willow and poplar , the Dryad 's Bubble , lucent and lovely a of yore , the Lake of Shining Waters , and Willowmere .
The twin have their mother 's old porch-gable room , and Aunt Marilla use to come in at night , when she think they be asleep , to gloat over them .
But they all know she love Jem the best .
Jem be at present busily occupy in fry a mess of small trout which he have just catch in the pond .
His stove consist of a circle of red stone , with a fire kindle in it , and his culinary utensil be an old tin can , hammer out flat , and a fork with only one tine left .
Nevertheless , rip good meal have before now be thus prepared .
Jem be the child of the House of Dreams .
All the others have be bear at Ingleside .
He have curly red hair , like his mother 's , and frank hazel eye , like his father 's ; he have his mother 's fine nose and his father 's steady , humorous mouth .
And he be the only one of the family who have ear nice enough to please Susan .
But he have a stand feud with Susan because she would not give up call him Little Jem .
It be outrageous , thought thirteen-year-old Jem .
Mother have more sense .
`` I 'm NOT little any more , Mother , '' he have cry indignantly , on his eighth birthday .
`` I 'm AWFUL big . ''
Mother have sigh and laugh and sigh again ; and she never call him Little Jem again -- in his hearing at least .
He be and always have be a sturdy , reliable little chap .
He never break a promise .
He be not a great talker .
His teacher do not think him brilliant , but he be a good , all-round student .
He never take thing on faith ; he always like to investigate the truth of a statement for himself .
Once Susan have tell him that if he touch his tongue to a frosty latch all the skin would tear off it .
Jem have promptly do it , `` just to see if it be so . ''
He find it be `` so , '' at the cost of a very sore tongue for several day .
But Jem do not grudge suffer in the interest of science .
By constant experiment and observation he learn a great deal and his brother and sister think his extensive knowledge of their little world quite wonderful .
Jem always know where the first and ripe berry grow , where the first pale violet shyly waken from their winter 's sleep , and how many blue egg be in a give robin 's nest in the maple grove .
He could tell fortune from daisy petal and suck honey from red clover , and grub up all sort of edible root on the bank of the pond , while Susan go in daily fear that they would all be poison .
He know where the fine spruce-gum be to be find , in pale amber knot on the lichened bark , he know where the nut grow thick in the beechwood around the Harbour Head , and where the best trouting place up the brook be .
He could mimic the call of any wild bird or beast in Four Winds and he know the haunt of every wild flower from spring to autumn .
Walter Blythe be sit under the White Lady , with a volume of poem lie beside him , but he be not read .
He be gaze now at the emerald-misted willow by the pond , and now at a flock of cloud , like little silver sheep , herd by the wind , that be drift over Rainbow Valley , with rapture in his wide splendid eye .
Walter 's eye be very wonderful .
All the joy and sorrow and laughter and loyalty and aspiration of many generation lie under the sod look out of their dark gray depth .
Walter be a `` hop out of kin , '' as far a looks go .
He do not resemble any known relative .
He be quite the handsomest of the Ingleside child , with straight black hair and finely model feature .
But he have all his mother 's vivid imagination and passionate love of beauty .
Frost of winter , invitation of spring , dream of summer and glamour of autumn , all mean much to Walter .
In school , where Jem be a chieftain , Walter be not think highly of .
He be suppose to be `` girly '' and milk-soppish , because he never fight and seldom join in the school sport , prefer to herd by himself in out of the way corner and read book -- especially `` po ` try book . ''
Walter love the poet and pore over their page from the time he could first read .
Their music be weave into his grow soul -- the music of the immortal .
Walter cherish the ambition to be a poet himself some day .
The thing could be do .
A certain Uncle Paul -- so call out of courtesy -- who live now in that mysterious realm call `` the States , '' be Walter 's model .
Uncle Paul have once be a little school boy in Avonlea and now his poetry be read everywhere .
But the Glen schoolboy do not know of Walter 's dream and would not have be greatly impressed if they have .
In spite of his lack of physical prowess , however , he command a certain unwilling respect because of his power of `` talk book talk . ''
Nobody in Glen St. Mary school could talk like him .
He `` sound like a preacher , '' one boy say ; and for this reason he be generally leave alone and not persecute , a most boy be who be suspect of dislike or fear fisticuffs .
The ten year old Ingleside twin violate twin tradition by not look in the least alike .
Anne , who be always call Nan , be very pretty , with velvety nut-brown eye and silky nut-brown hair .
She be a very blithe and dainty little maiden -- Blythe by name and blithe by nature , one of her teacher have say .
Her complexion be quite faultless , much to her mother 's satisfaction .
`` I 'm so glad I have one daughter who can wear pink , '' Mrs. Blythe be wont to say jubilantly .
Diana Blythe , know a Di , be very like her mother , with gray-green eye that always shine with a peculiar lustre and brilliancy in the dusk , and red hair .
Perhaps this be why she be her father 's favourite .
She and Walter be especial chum ; Di be the only one to whom he would ever read the verse he write himself -- the only one who know that he be secretly hard at work on an epic , strikingly resemble `` Marmion '' in some thing , if not in others .
She keep all his secret , even from Nan , and tell him all hers .
`` Wo n't you soon have those fish ready , Jem ? ''
say Nan , sniff with her dainty nose .
`` The smell make me awfully hungry . ''
`` They 're nearly ready , '' say Jem , give one a dexterous turn .
`` Get out the bread and the plate , girl .
Walter , wake up . ''
`` How the air shin to-night , '' say Walter dreamily .
Not that he despise fry trout either , by any mean ; but with Walter food for the soul always take first place .
`` The flower angel have be walk over the world to-day , call to the flower .
I can see his blue wing on that hill by the wood . ''
`` Any angel ' wing I ever saw be white , '' say Nan .
`` The flower angel 's be n't .
They be a pale misty blue , just like the haze in the valley .
Oh , how I wish I could fly .
It must be glorious . ''
`` One do fly in dream sometimes , '' say Di .
`` I never dream that I 'm fly exactly , '' say Walter .
`` But I often dream that I just rise up from the ground and float over the fence and the tree .
It 's delightful -- and I always think , ` This IS N'T a dream like it 's always be before .
THIS be real ' -- and then I wake up after all , and it 's heart-breaking . ''
`` Hurry up , Nan , '' order Jem .
Nan have produce the banquet-board -- a board literally as well a figuratively -- from which many a feast , season a no viand be elsewhere , have be eat in Rainbow Valley .
It be convert into a table by prop it on two large , mossy stone .
Newspapers serve a tablecloth , and break plate and handleless cup from Susan 's discard furnish the dish .
From a tin box secrete at the root of a spruce tree Nan bring forth bread and salt .
The brook give Adam 's ale of unsurpassed crystal .
For the rest , there be a certain sauce , compound of fresh air and appetite of youth , which give to everything a divine flavour .
To sit in Rainbow Valley , steep in a twilight half gold , half amethyst , rife with the odour of balsam-fir and woodsy grow thing in their springtime prime , with the pale star of wild strawberry blossom all around you , and with the sough of the wind and tinkle of bell in the shaking tree top , and eat fry trout and dry bread , be something which the mighty of earth might have envy them .
`` Sit in , '' invite Nan , a Jem place his sizzle tin platter of trout on the table .
`` It 's your turn to say grace , Jem . ''
`` I 've do my part fry the trout , '' protest Jem , who hat say grace .
`` Let Walter say it .
He LIKES say grace .
And cut it short , too , Walt .
I 'm starve . ''
But Walter say no grace , short or long , just then .
An interruption occur .
`` Who 's come down from the manse hill ? ''
say Di .
CHAPTER IV .
THE MANSE CHILDREN Aunt Martha might be , and be , a very poor housekeeper ; the Rev . John Knox Meredith might be , and be , a very absent-minded , indulgent man .
But it could not be deny that there be something very homelike and lovable about the Glen St. Mary manse in spite of it untidiness .
Even the critical housewife of the Glen felt it , and be unconsciously mellow in judgment because of it .
Perhaps it charm be in part due to accidental circumstance -- the luxuriant vine cluster over it gray , clap-boarded wall , the friendly acacia and balm-of-gileads that crowd about it with the freedom of old acquaintance , and the beautiful view of harbour and sand-dunes from it front window .
But these thing have be there in the reign of Mr. Meredith 's predecessor , when the manse have be the primmest , neat , and dreary house in the Glen .
So much of the credit must be give to the personality of it new inmate .
There be an atmosphere of laughter and comradeship about it ; the door be always open ; and inner and out world join hand .
Love be the only law in Glen St. Mary manse .
The people of his congregation say that Mr. Meredith spoil his child .
Very likely he do .
It be certain that he could not bear to scold them .
`` They have no mother , '' he use to say to himself , with a sigh , when some unusually glaring peccadillo force itself upon his notice .
But he do not know the half of their goings-on .
He belong to the sect of dreamer .
The window of his study look out on the graveyard but , a he pace up and down the room , reflect deeply on the immortality of the soul , he be quite unaware that Jerry and Carl be play leap-frog hilariously over the flat stone in that abode of dead Methodists .
Mr. Meredith have occasional acute realization that his child be not so well looked after , physically or morally , a they have be before his wife die , and he have always a dim sub-consciousness that house and meal be very different under Aunt Martha 's management from what they have be under Cecilia 's .
For the rest , he live in a world of book and abstraction ; and , therefore , although his clothes be seldom brush , and although the Glen housewife conclude , from the ivory-like pallor of his clear-cut feature and slender hand , that he never get enough to eat , he be not an unhappy man .
If ever a graveyard could be call a cheerful place , the old Methodist graveyard at Glen St. Mary might be so call .
The new graveyard , at the other side of the Methodist church , be a neat and proper and doleful spot ; but the old one have be leave so long to Nature 's kindly and gracious ministry that it have become very pleasant .
It be surround on three side by a dyke of stone and sod , top by a gray and uncertain paling .
Outside the dyke grow a row of tall fir tree with thick , balsamic bough .
The dyke , which have be build by the first settler of the Glen , be old enough to be beautiful , with moss and green thing grow out of it crevice , violet purple at it base in the early spring day , and aster and golden-rod make an autumnal glory in it corner .
Little fern cluster companionably between it stone , and here and there a big bracken grow .
On the eastern side there be neither fence nor dyke .
The graveyard there straggle off into a young fir plantation , ever push nearer to the graf and deepen eastward into a thick wood .
The air be always full of the harp-like voice of the sea , and the music of gray old tree , and in the spring mornings the chorus of bird in the elm around the two church sang of life and not of death .
The Meredith child love the old graveyard .
Blue-eyed ivy , `` garden-spruce , '' and mint ran riot over the sunken graf .
Blueberry bush grow lavishly in the sandy corner next to the fir wood .
The vary fashion of tombstone for three generation be to be find there , from the flat , oblong , red sandstone slab of old settler , down through the day of weep willow and clasp hand , to the late monstrosity of tall `` monument '' and drape urn .
One of the latter , the big and ugly in the graveyard , be sacred to the memory of a certain Alec Davis who have be bear a Methodist but have take to himself a Presbyterian bride of the Douglas clan .
She have make him turn Presbyterian and keep him toe the Presbyterian mark all his life .
But when he die she do not dare to doom him to a lonely grave in the Presbyterian graveyard over-harbour .
His people be all bury in the Methodist cemetery ; so Alec Davis go back to his own in death and his widow console herself by erect a monument which cost more than any of the Methodists could afford .
The Meredith child hat it , without just know why , but they love the old , flat , bench-like stone with the tall grass grow rankly about them .
They make jolly seat for one thing .
They be all sit on one now .
Jerry , tire of leap frog , be play on a jew 's - harp .
Carl be lovingly pore over a strange beetle he have find ; Una be try to make a doll 's dress , and Faith , lean back on her slender brown wrist , be swing her bare foot in lively time to the jew 's - harp .
Jerry have his father 's black hair and large black eye , but in him the latter be flash instead of dreamy .
Faith , who come next to him , wear her beauty like a rise , careless and glowing .
She have golden-brown eye , golden-brown curl and crimson cheek .
She laugh too much to please her father 's congregation and have shock old Mrs. Taylor , the disconsolate spouse of several departed husband , by saucily declare -- in the church-porch at that -- `` The world IS N'T a vale of tear , Mrs. Taylor .
It 's a world of laughter . ''
Little dreamy Una be not give to laughter .
Her braid of straight , dead-black hair betray no lawless kink , and her almond-shaped , dark-blue eye have something wistful and sorrowful in them .
Her mouth have a trick of fall open over her tiny white teeth , and a shy , meditative smile occasionally creep over her small face .
She be much more sensitive to public opinion than Faith , and have an uneasy consciousness that there be something askew in their way of living .
She long to put it right , but do not know how .
Now and then she dust the furniture -- but it be so seldom she could find the duster because it be never in the same place twice .
And when the clothes-brush be to be find she try to brush her father 's best suit on Saturdays , and once sew on a miss button with coarse white thread .
When Mr. Meredith go to church next day every female eye saw that button and the peace of the Ladies ' Aid be upset for week .
Carl have the clear , bright , dark-blue eye , fearless and direct , of his dead mother , and her brown hair with it glint of gold .
He know the secret of bug and have a sort of freemasonry with bee and beetle .
Una never like to sit near him because she never know what uncanny creature might be secrete about him .
Jerry refuse to sleep with him because Carl have once take a young garter snake to bed with him ; so Carl slept in his old cot , which be so short that he could never stretch out , and have strange bed-fellows .
Perhaps it be just as well that Aunt Martha be half blind when she make that bed .
Altogether they be a jolly , lovable little crew , and Cecilia Meredith 's heart must have ache bitterly when she face the knowledge that she must leave them .
`` Where would you like to be bury if you be a Methodist ? ''
ask Faith cheerfully .
This open up an interesting field of speculation .
`` There be n't much choice .
The place be full , '' say Jerry .
`` I 'D like that corner near the road , I guess .
I could hear the team go past and the people talk . ''
`` I 'd like that little hollow under the weeping birch , '' say Una .
`` That birch be such a place for bird and they sing like mad in the morning . ''
`` I 'd take the Porter lot where there 's so many child bury .
I like lot of company , '' say Faith .
`` Carl , where 'd you ? ''
`` I 'd rather not be bury at all , '' say Carl , `` but if I have to be I 'd like the ant-bed .
Ants be AWF ` LY int ` resting . ''
`` How very good all the people who be bury here must have be , '' say Una , who have be read the laudatory old epitaph .
`` There do n't seem to be a single bad person in the whole graveyard .
Methodists must be good than Presbyterians after all . ''
`` Maybe the Methodists bury their bad people just like they do cat , '' suggest Carl .
`` Maybe they do n't bother bring them to the graveyard at all . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Faith .
`` The people that be bury here be n't any good than other folk , Una .
But when anyone be dead you must n't say anything of him but good or he 'll come back and ha ` nt you .
Aunt Martha tell me that .
I ask father if it be true and he just look through me and mutter , ` True ?
True ?
What be truth ?
What IS truth , O jest Pilate ? '
I conclude from that it must be true . ''
`` I wonder if Mr. Alec Davis would come back and ha ` nt me if I throw a stone at the urn on top of his tombstone , '' say Jerry .
`` Mrs. Davis would , '' giggle Faith .
`` She just watch u in church like a cat watch mouse .
Last Sunday I make a face at her nephew and he make one back at me and you should have see her glare .
I 'll bet she box HIS ear when they get out .
Mrs. Marshall Elliott tell me we must n't offend her on any account or I 'd have make a face at her , too ! ''
`` They say Jem Blythe stick out his tongue at her once and she would never have his father again , even when her husband be die , '' say Jerry .
`` I wonder what the Blythe gang will be like . ''
`` I like their look , '' say Faith .
The manse child have be at the station that afternoon when the Blythe small fry have arrive .
`` I like Jem 's look ESPECIALLY . ''
`` They say in school that Walter 's a sissy , '' say Jerry .
`` I do n't believe it , '' say Una , who have think Walter very handsome .
`` Well , he write poetry , anyhow .
He win the prize the teacher offer last year for write a poem , Bertie Shakespeare Drew tell me .
Bertie 's mother think HE should have get the prize because of his name , but Bertie say he could n't write poetry to save his soul , name or no name . ''
`` I suppose we 'll get acquaint with them as soon a they begin go to school , '' muse Faith .
`` I hope the girl be nice .
I do n't like most of the girl round here .
Even the nice one be poky .
But the Blythe twin look jolly .
I think twin always look alike , but they do n't .
I think the red-haired one be the nice . ''
`` I like their mother 's look , '' say Una with a little sigh .
Una envy all child their mother .
She have be only six when her mother die , but she have some very precious memory , treasure in her soul like jewel , of twilight cuddling and morning frolic , of love eye , a tender voice , and the sweet , gay laugh .
`` They say she be n't like other people , '' say Jerry .
`` Mrs. Elliot say that be because she never really grow up , '' say Faith .
`` She 's tall than Mrs. Elliott . ''
`` Yes , yes , but it be inside -- Mrs. Elliot say Mrs. Blythe just stay a little girl inside . ''
`` What do I smell ? ''
interrupt Carl , sniff .
They all smell it now .
A most delectable odour come float up on the still even air from the direction of the little woodsy dell below the manse hill .
`` That make me hungry , '' say Jerry .
`` We have only bread and molasses for supper and cold ditto for dinner , '' say Una plaintively .
Aunt Martha 's habit be to boil a large slab of mutton early in the week and serve it up every day , cold and greasy , as long a it last .
To this Faith , in a moment of inspiration , have give the name of `` ditto '' , and by this it be invariably know at the manse .
`` Let 's go and see where that smell be come from , '' say Jerry .
They all spring up , frolic over the lawn with the abandon of young puppy , climb a fence , and tore down the mossy slope , guide by the savory lure that ever grow strong .
A few minute later they arrive breathlessly in the sanctum sanctorum of Rainbow Valley where the Blythe child be just about to give thanks and eat .
They halt shyly .
Una wish they have not be so precipitate : but Di Blythe be equal to that and any occasion .
She step forward , with a comrade 's smile .
`` I guess I know who you be , '' she say .
`` You belong to the manse , do n't you ? ''
Faith nod , her face crease by dimple .
`` We smell your trout cooking and wonder what it be . ''
`` You must sit down and help u eat them , '' say Di .
`` Maybe you have n't more than you want yourselves , '' say Jerry , look hungrily at the tin platter .
`` We 've heap -- three apiece , '' say Jem .
`` Sit down . ''
No more ceremony be necessary .
Down they all sit on mossy stone .
Merry be that feast and long .
Nan and Di would probably have die of horror have they know what Faith and Una know perfectly well -- that Carl have two young mouse in his jacket pocket .
But they never know it , so it never hurt them .
Where can folks get well acquaint than over a meal table ?
When the last trout have vanish , the manse child and the Ingleside child be swear friend and ally .
They have always know each other and always would .
The race of Joseph recognize it own .
They pour out the history of their little past .
The manse child heard of Avonlea and Green Gables , of Rainbow Valley tradition , and of the little house by the harbour shore where Jem have be bear .
The Ingleside child heard of Maywater , where the Merediths have live before come to the Glen , of Una 's beloved , one-eyed doll and Faith 's pet rooster .
Faith be incline to resent the fact that people laugh at her for pet a rooster .
She like the Blythes because they accept it without question .
`` A handsome rooster like Adam be just a nice a pet a a dog or cat , I think , '' she say .
`` If he be a canary nobody would wonder .
And I bring him up from a little , wee , yellow chicken .
Mrs. Johnson at Maywater give him to me .
A weasel have kill all his brother and sister .
I call him after her husband .
I never like doll or cat .
Cats be too sneaky and doll be DEAD . ''
`` Who live in that house away up there ? ''
ask Jerry .
`` The Miss Wests -- Rosemary and Ellen , '' answer Nan .
`` Di and I be go to take music lesson from Miss Rosemary this summer . ''
Una gaze at the lucky twin with eye whose longing be too gentle for envy .
Oh , if she could only have music lesson !
It be one of the dream of her little hidden life .
But nobody ever think of such a thing .
`` Miss Rosemary be so sweet and she always dress so pretty , '' say Di .
`` Her hair be just the colour of new molasses taffy , '' she add wistfully -- for Di , like her mother before her , be not resign to her own ruddy tress .
`` I like Miss Ellen , too , '' say Nan .
`` She always use to give me candy when she come to church .
But Di be afraid of her . ''
`` Her brow be so black and she have such a great deep voice , '' say Di .
`` Oh , how scared of her Kenneth Ford use to be when he be little !
Mother say the first Sunday Mrs. Ford bring him to church Miss Ellen happen to be there , sit right behind them .
And the minute Kenneth saw her he just scream and scream until Mrs. Ford have to carry him out . ''
`` Who be Mrs. Ford ? ''
ask Una wonderingly .
`` Oh , the Fords do n't live here .
They only come here in the summer .
And they 're not come this summer .
They live in that little house ` way , ` way down on the harbour shore where father and mother use to lie .
I wish you could see Persis Ford .
She be just like a picture . ''
`` I 've hear of Mrs. Ford , '' break in Faith .
`` Bertie Shakespeare Drew tell me about her .
She be marry fourteen year to a dead man and then he come to life . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Nan .
`` That be n't the way it go at all .
Bertie Shakespeare can never get anything straight .
I know the whole story and I 'll tell it to you some time , but not now , for it 's too long and it 's time for u to go home .
Mother do n't like u to be out late these damp evening . ''
Nobody care whether the manse child be out in the damp or not .
Aunt Martha be already in bed and the minister be still too deeply lose in speculation concern the immortality of the soul to remember the mortality of the body .
But they go home , too , with vision of good time come in their head .
`` I think Rainbow Valley be even nice than the graveyard , '' say Una .
`` And I just love those dear Blythes .
It 's SO nice when you can love people because so often you CA N'T .
Father say in his sermon last Sunday that we should love everybody .
But how can we ?
How could we love Mrs. Alec Davis ? ''
`` Oh , father only say that in the pulpit , '' say Faith airily .
`` He have more sense than to really think it outside . ''
The Blythe child go up to Ingleside , except Jem , who slip away for a few moment on a solitary expedition to a remote corner of Rainbow Valley .
Mayflowers grow there and Jem never forget to take his mother a bouquet as long a they last .
CHAPTER V .
THE ADVENT OF MARY VANCE `` This be just the sort of day you feel a if thing might happen , '' say Faith , responsive to the lure of crystal air and blue hill .
She hug herself with delight and dance a hornpipe on old Hezekiah Pollock 's bench tombstone , much to the horror of two ancient maiden who happen to be drive past just a Faith hop on one foot around the stone , wave the other and her arm in the air .
`` And that , '' groan one ancient maiden , `` be our minister 's daughter . ''
`` What else could you expect of a widower 's family ? ''
groan the other ancient maiden .
And then they both shake their head .
It be early on Saturday morning and the Merediths be out in the dew-drenched world with a delightful consciousness of the holiday .
They have never have anything to do on a holiday .
Even Nan and Di Blythe have certain household task for Saturday morning , but the daughter of the manse be free to roam from blush morn to dewy eve if so it please them .
It DID please Faith , but Una felt a secret , bitter humiliation because they never learn to do anything .
The other girl in her class at school could cook and sew and knit ; she only be a little ignoramus .
Jerry suggest that they go explore ; so they go lingeringly through the fir grove , pick up Carl on the way , who be on his knee in the drip grass study his darling ant .
Beyond the grove they come out in Mr. Taylor 's pasture field , sprinkle over with the white ghost of dandelion ; in a remote corner be an old tumbledown barn , where Mr. Taylor sometimes store his surplus hay crop but which be never use for any other purpose .
Thither the Meredith child troop , and prowl about the ground floor for several minute .
`` What be that ? ''
whisper Una suddenly .
They all listen .
There be a faint but distinct rustle in the hayloft above .
The Merediths look at each other .
`` There 's something up there , '' breathe Faith .
`` I 'm go up to see what it be , '' say Jerry resolutely .
`` Oh , do n't , '' beg Una , catch his arm .
`` I 'm go . ''
`` We 'll all go , too , then , '' say Faith .
The whole four climb the shaky ladder , Jerry and Faith quite dauntless , Una pale from fright , and Carl rather absent-mindedly speculate on the possibility of find a bat up in the loft .
He long to see a bat in daylight .
When they step off the ladder they saw what have make the rustle and the sight strike them dumb for a few moment .
In a little nest in the hay a girl be curl up , look a if she have just waken from sleep .
When she saw them she stand up , rather shakily , a it seem , and in the bright sunlight that stream through the cobwebbed window behind her , they saw that her thin , sunburn face be very pale under it tan .
She have two braid of lank , thick , tow-coloured hair and very odd eye -- `` white eye , '' the manse child think , a she star at them half defiantly , half piteously .
They be really of so pale a blue that they do seem almost white , especially when contrast with the narrow black ring that circle the iris .
She be barefooted and bareheaded , and be clothe in a faded , rag , old plaid dress , much too short and tight for her .
As for year , she might have be almost any age , judge from her wizened little face , but her height seem to be somewhere in the neighbourhood of twelve .
`` Who be you ? ''
ask Jerry .
The girl look about her a if seek a way of escape .
Then she seem to give in with a little shiver of despair .
`` I 'm Mary Vance , '' she say .
`` Where 'd you come from ? ''
pursue Jerry .
Mary , instead of reply , suddenly sit , or fell , down on the hay and begin to cry .
Instantly Faith have fling herself down beside her and put her arm around the thin , shake shoulder .
`` You stop bother her , '' she command Jerry .
Then she hug the waif .
`` Do n't cry , dear .
Just tell u what 's the matter .
WE 'RE friend . ''
`` I 'm so -- so -- hungry , '' wail Mary .
`` I -- I hai n't have a thing to eat since Thursday morning , ` cept a little water from the brook out there . ''
The manse child gaze at each other in horror .
Faith spring up .
`` You come right up to the manse and get something to eat before you say another word . ''
Mary shrank .
`` Oh -- I ca n't .
What will your pa and ma say ?
Besides , they 'd send me back . ''
`` We 've no mother , and father wo n't bother about you .
Neither will Aunt Martha .
Come , I say . ''
Faith stamp her foot impatiently .
Was this queer girl go to insist on starve to death almost at their very door ?
Mary yield .
She be so weak that she could hardly climb down the ladder , but somehow they get her down and over the field and into the manse kitchen .
Aunt Martha , muddle through her Saturday cooking , take no notice of her .
Faith and Una fly to the pantry and ransack it for such eatable a it contain -- some `` ditto , '' bread , butter , milk and a doubtful pie .
Mary Vance attack the food ravenously and uncritically , while the manse child stand around and watch her .
Jerry notice that she have a pretty mouth and very nice , even , white teeth .
Faith decide , with secret horror , that Mary have not one stitch on her except that rag , fade dress .
Una be full of pure pity , Carl of amused wonder , and all of them of curiosity .
`` Now come out to the graveyard and tell u about yourself , '' order Faith , when Mary 's appetite show sign of fail her .
Mary be now nothing loath .
Food have restore her natural vivacity and unloose her by no mean reluctant tongue .
`` You wo n't tell your pa or anybody if I tell you ? ''
she stipulate , when she be enthrone on Mr. Pollock 's tombstone .
Opposite her the manse child line up on another .
Here be spice and mystery and adventure .
Something HAD happen .
`` No , we wo n't . ''
`` Cross your heart ? ''
`` Cross our heart . ''
`` Well , I 've run away .
I be live with Mrs. Wiley over-harbour .
Do you know Mrs. Wiley ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , you do n't want to know her .
She 's an awful woman .
My , how I hate her !
She work me to death and would n't give me half enough to eat , and she use to larrup me ` most every day .
Look a-here . ''
Mary roll up her ragged sleeve , and hold up her scrawny arm and thin hand , chap almost to rawness .
They be black with bruise .
The manse child shiver .
Faith flush crimson with indignation .
Una 's blue eye fill with tear .
`` She lick me Wednesday night with a stick , '' say Mary , indifferently .
`` It be 'cause I let the cow kick over a pail of milk .
How 'd I know the darn old cow be go to kick ? ''
A not unpleasant thrill run over her listener .
They would never dream of use such dubious word , but it be rather titivate to hear someone else use them -- and a girl , at that .
Certainly this Mary Vance be an interesting creature .
`` I do n't blame you for run away , '' say Faith .
`` Oh , I do n't run away 'cause she lick me .
A licking be all in the day 's work with me .
I be darn well use to it .
Nope , I 'd mean to run away for a week 'cause I 'd find out that Mrs. Wiley be go to rent her farm and go to Lowbridge to live and give me to a cousin of hers up Charlottetown way .
I be n't go to stand for THAT .
She be a bad sort than Mrs. Wiley even .
Mrs. Wiley lend me to her for a month last summer and I 'd rather live with the devil himself . ''
Sensation number two .
But Una look doubtful .
`` So I make up my mind I 'd beat it .
I have seventy cent save up that Mrs. John Crawford give me in the spring for plant potato for her .
Mrs. Wiley do n't know about it .
She be away visit her cousin when I plant them .
I think I 'd sneak up here to the Glen and buy a ticket to Charlottetown and try to get work there .
I 'm a hustler , let me tell you .
There ai n't a lazy bone in MY body .
So I light out Thursday morning ` fore Mrs. Wiley be up and walk to the Glen -- six mile .
And when I get to the station I find I 'd lose my money .
Dunno how -- dunno where .
Anyhow , it be go .
I do n't know what to do .
If I go back to old Lady Wiley she 'd take the hide off me .
So I go and hid in that old barn . ''
`` And what will you do now ? ''
ask Jerry .
`` Dunno .
I s ` pose I 'll have to go back and take my medicine .
Now that I 've get some grub in my stomach I guess I can stand it . ''
But there be fear behind the bravado in Mary 's eye .
Una suddenly slip from the one tombstone to the other and put her arm about Mary .
`` Do n't go back .
Just stay here with u . ''
`` Oh , Mrs. Wiley 'll hunt me up , '' say Mary .
`` It 's likely she 's on my trail before this .
I might stay here till she find me , I s ` pose , if your folk do n't mind .
I be a darn fool ever to think of skip out .
She 'd run a weasel to earth .
But I be so misrebul . ''
Mary 's voice quiver , but she be ashamed of show her weakness .
`` I hai n't have the life of a dog for these four year , '' she explain defiantly .
`` You 've be four year with Mrs. Wiley ? ''
`` Yip .
She take me out of the asylum over in Hopetown when I be eight . ''
`` That 's the same place Mrs. Blythe come from , '' exclaim Faith .
`` I be two year in the asylum .
I be put there when I be six .
My ma have hang herself and my pa have cut his throat . ''
`` Holy cat !
Why ? ''
say Jerry .
`` Booze , '' say Mary laconically .
`` And you 've no relation ? ''
`` Not a darn one that I know of .
Must have have some once , though .
I be call after half a dozen of them .
My full name be Mary Martha Lucilla Moore Ball Vance .
Can you beat that ?
My grandfather be a rich man .
I 'll bet he be rich than YOUR grandfather .
But pa drink it all up and ma , she do her part .
THEY use to beat me , too .
Laws , I 've be lick so much I kind of like it . ''
Mary toss her head .
She divine that the manse child be pity her for her many stripe and she do not want pity .
She want to be envy .
She look gaily about her .
Her strange eye , now that the dullness of famine be remove from them , be brilliant .
She would show these youngster what a personage she be .
`` I 've be sick an awful lot , '' she say proudly .
`` There 's not many kid could have come through what I have .
I 've have scarlet fever and measles and ersipelas and mumps and whooping cough and pewmonia . ''
`` Were you ever fatally sick ? ''
ask Una .
`` I do n't know , '' say Mary doubtfully .
`` Of course she be n't , '' scoff Jerry .
`` If you 're fatally sick you die . ''
`` Oh , well , I never die exactly , '' say Mary , `` but I come blame near it once .
They think I be dead and they be get ready to lay me out when I up and come to . ''
`` What be it like to be half dead ? ''
ask Jerry curiously .
`` Like nothing .
I do n't know it for day afterwards .
It be when I have the pewmonia .
Mrs. Wiley would n't have the doctor -- say she be n't go to no such expense for a home girl .
Old Aunt Christina MacAllister nurse me with poultice .
She brung me round .
But sometimes I wish I 'd just die the other half and do with it .
I 'd be well off . ''
`` If you go to heaven I s ` pose you would , '' say Faith , rather doubtfully .
`` Well , what other place be there to go to ? ''
demand Mary in a puzzled voice .
`` There 's hell , you know , '' say Una , drop her voice and hug Mary to lessen the awfulness of the suggestion .
`` Hell ?
What 's that ? ''
`` Why , it 's where the devil live , '' say Jerry .
`` You 've hear of him -- you speak about him . ''
`` Oh , yes , but I do n't know he live anywhere .
I think he just roam round .
Mr. Wiley use to mention hell when he be alive .
He be always tell folk to go there .
I think it be some place over in New Brunswick where he come from . ''
`` Hell be an awful place , '' say Faith , with the dramatic enjoyment that be bear of tell dreadful thing .
`` Bad people go there when they die and burn in fire for ever and ever and ever . ''
`` Who tell you that ? ''
demand Mary incredulously .
`` It 's in the Bible .
And Mr. Isaac Crothers at Maywater tell u , too , in Sunday School .
He be an elder and a pillar in the church and know all about it .
But you need n't worry .
If you 're good you 'll go to heaven and if you 're bad I guess you 'd rather go to hell . ''
`` I would n't , '' say Mary positively .
`` No matter how bad I be I would n't want to be burn and burn .
I know what it 's like .
I pick up a red hot poker once by accident .
What must you do to be good ? ''
`` You must go to church and Sunday School and read your Bible and pray every night and give to mission , '' say Una .
`` It sound like a large order , '' say Mary .
`` Anything else ? ''
`` You must ask God to forgive the sin you 've commit .
`` But I 've never com -- committed any , '' say Mary .
`` What 's a sin any way ? ''
`` Oh , Mary , you must have .
Everybody do .
Did you never tell a lie ? ''
`` Heaps of 'em , '' say Mary .
`` That 's a dreadful sin , '' say Una solemnly .
`` Do you mean to tell me , '' demand Mary , `` that I 'd be send to hell for tell a lie now and then ?
Why , I HAD to .
Mr. Wiley would have break every bone in my body one time if I have n't tell him a lie .
Lies have save me many a whack , I can tell you . ''
Una sigh .
Here be too many difficulty for her to solve .
She shudder a she think of be cruelly whip .
Very likely she would have lie too .
She squeeze Mary 's little calloused hand .
`` Is that the only dress you 've get ? ''
ask Faith , whose joyous nature refuse to dwell on disagreeable subject .
`` I just put on this dress because it be no good , '' cry Mary flushing .
`` Mrs. Wiley 'd buy my clothes and I be n't go to be beholden to her for anything .
And I 'm honest .
If I be go to run away I be n't go to take what belong to HER that be worth anything .
When I grow up I 'm go to have a blue sating dress .
Your own clothes do n't look so stylish .
I think minister ' child be always dress up . ''
It be plain that Mary have a temper and be sensitive on some point .
But there be a queer , wild charm about her which captivate them all .
She be take to Rainbow Valley that afternoon and introduce to the Blythes a `` a friend of ours from over-harbour who be visit u . ''
The Blythes accept her unquestioningly , perhaps because she be fairly respectable now .
After dinner -- through which Aunt Martha have mumble and Mr. Meredith have be in a state of semi-unconsciousness while brood his Sunday sermon -- Faith have prevail on Mary to put on one of her dress , as well a certain other article of clothing .
With her hair neatly braid Mary pass muster tolerably well .
She be an acceptable playmate , for she know several new and exciting game , and her conversation lack not spice .
In fact , some of her expression make Nan and Di look at her rather askance .
They be not quite sure what their mother would have think of her , but they know quite well what Susan would .
However , she be a visitor at the manse , so she must be all right .
When bedtime come there be the problem of where Mary should sleep .
`` We ca n't put her in the spare room , you know , '' say Faith perplexedly to Una .
`` I have n't get anything in my head , '' cry Mary in an injured tone .
`` Oh , I do n't mean THAT , '' protest Faith .
`` The spare room be all tear up .
The mouse have gnaw a big hole in the feather tick and make a nest in it .
We never find it out till Aunt Martha put the Rev . Mr. Fisher from Charlottetown there to sleep last week .
HE soon find it out .
Then father have to give him his bed and sleep on the study lounge .
Aunt Martha have n't have time to fix the spare room bed up yet , so she say ; so NOBODY can sleep there , no matter how clean their head be .
And our room be so small , and the bed so small you ca n't sleep with u . ''
`` I can go back to the hay in the old barn for the night if you 'll lend me a quilt , '' say Mary philosophically .
`` It be kind of chilly last night , but ` cept for that I 've have bad bed . ''
`` Oh , no , no , you must n't do that , '' say Una .
`` I 've think of a plan , Faith .
You know that little trestle bed in the garret room , with the old mattress on it , that the last minister leave there ?
Let 's take up the spare room bedclothes and make Mary a bed there .
You wo n't mind sleep in the garret , will you , Mary ?
It 's just above our room . ''
`` Any place 'll do me .
Laws , I never have a decent place to sleep in my life .
I sleep in the loft over the kitchen at Mrs. Wiley 's .
The roof leak rain in the summer and the snow druv in in winter .
My bed be a straw tick on the floor .
You wo n't find me a mite huffy about where I sleep . ''
The manse garret be a long , low , shadowy place , with one gable end partition off .
Here a bed be make up for Mary of the dainty hemstitch sheet and embroider spread which Cecilia Meredith have once so proudly make for her spare-room , and which still survive Aunt Martha 's uncertain washing .
The good night be say and silence fell over the manse .
Una be just fall asleep when she hear a sound in the room just above that make her sit up suddenly .
`` Listen , Faith -- Mary 's cry , '' she whisper .
Faith reply not , be already asleep .
Una slip out of bed , and make her way in her little white gown down the hall and up the garret stair .
The creak floor give ample notice of her coming , and when she reach the corner room all be moonlit silence and the trestle bed show only a hump in the middle .
`` Mary , '' whisper Una .
There be no response .
Una creep close to the bed and pull at the spread .
`` Mary , I know you be cry .
I hear you .
Are you lonesome ? ''
Mary suddenly appear to view but say nothing .
`` Let me in beside you .
I 'm cold , '' say Una shivering in the chilly air , for the little garret window be open and the keen breath of the north shore at night blew in .
Mary move over and Una snuggle down beside her .
`` NOW you wo n't be lonesome .
We should n't have leave you here alone the first night . ''
`` I be n't lonesome , '' sniff Mary .
`` What be you cry for then ? ''
`` Oh , I just get to think of thing when I be here alone .
I think of have to go back to Mrs. Wiley -- and of be lick for run away -- and -- and -- and of go to hell for tell lie .
It all worry me something scandalous . ''
`` Oh , Mary , '' say poor Una in distress .
`` I do n't believe God will send you to hell for tell lie when you do n't know it be wrong .
He COULD N'T .
Why , He 's kind and good .
Of course , you must n't tell any more now that you know it 's wrong . ''
`` If I ca n't tell lie what 's to become of me ? ''
say Mary with a sob .
`` YOU do n't understand .
You do n't know anything about it .
You 've get a home and a kind father -- though it do seem to me that he be n't more 'n about half there .
But anyway he do n't lick you , and you get enough to eat such a it be -- though that old aunt of yours do n't know ANYTHING about cooking .
Why , this be the first day I ever remember of feel ` sif I 'd enough to eat .
I 've be knock about all of my life , ` cept for the two year I be at the asylum .
They do n't lick me there and it be n't too bad , though the matron be cross .
She always look ready to bite my head off a nail .
But Mrs. Wiley be a holy terror , that 's what SHE be , and I 'm just scar stiff when I think of go back to her . ''
`` Perhaps you wo n't have to .
Perhaps we 'll be able to think of a way out .
Let 's both ask God to keep you from have to go back to Mrs. Wiley .
You say your prayer , do n't you Mary ? ''
`` Oh , yes , I always go over an old rhyme ` fore I get into bed , '' say Mary indifferently .
`` I never think of ask for anything in particular though .
Nobody in this world ever bother themselves about me so I do n't s ` pose God would .
He MIGHT take more trouble for you , see you 're a minister 's daughter . ''
`` He 'd take every bit a much trouble for you , Mary , I 'm sure , '' say Una .
`` It do n't matter whose child you be .
You just ask Him -- and I will , too . ''
`` All right , '' agree Mary .
`` It wo n't do any harm if it do n't do much good .
If you know Mrs. Wiley as well a I do you would n't think God would want to meddle with her .
Anyhow , I wo n't cry any more about it .
This be a big sight well 'n last night down in that old barn , with the mouse run about .
Look at the Four Winds light .
Ai n't it pretty ? ''
`` This be the only window we can see it from , '' say Una .
`` I love to watch it . ''
`` Do you ?
So do I. I could see it from the Wiley loft and it be the only comfort I have .
When I be all sore from be lick I 'd watch it and forget about the place that hurt .
I 'd think of the ship sail away and away from it and wish I be on one of them sail far away too -- away from everything .
On winter night when it do n't shine , I just felt real lonesome .
Say , Una , what make all you folks so kind to me when I 'm just a stranger ? ''
`` Because it 's right to be .
The bible tell u to be kind to everybody . ''
`` Does it ?
Well , I guess most folk do n't mind it much then .
I never remember of any one be kind to me before -- true 's you live I do n't .
Say , Una , ai n't them shadow on the wall pretty ?
They look just like a flock of little dancing bird .
And say , Una , I like all you folk and them Blythe boy and Di , but I do n't like that Nan .
She 's a proud one . ''
`` Oh , no , Mary , she be n't a bit proud , '' say Una eagerly .
`` Not a single bit . ''
`` Do n't tell me .
Any one that hold her head like that IS proud .
I do n't like her . ''
`` WE all like her very much . ''
`` Oh , I s ` pose you like her good 'n me ? ''
say Mary jealously .
`` Do you ? ''
`` Why , Mary -- we 've know her for week and we 've only know you a few hour , '' stammer Una .
`` So you do like her good then ? ''
say Mary in a rage .
`` All right !
Like her all you want to .
I do n't care .
I can get along without you . ''
She fling herself over against the wall of the garret with a slam .
`` Oh , Mary , '' say Una , push a tender arm over Mary 's uncompromising back , `` do n't talk like that .
I DO like you ever so much .
And you make me feel so bad . ''
No answer .
Presently Una give a sob .
Instantly Mary squirm around again and engulf Una in a bear 's hug .
`` Hush up , '' she order .
`` Do n't go cry over what I say .
I be as mean a the devil to talk that way .
I orter to be skin alive -- and you all so good to me .
I should think you WOULD like any one good 'n me .
I deserve every licking I ever get .
Hush , now .
If you cry any more I 'll go and walk right down to the harbour in this night-dress and drown myself . ''
This terrible threat make Una choke back her sob .
Her tear be wipe away by Mary with the lace frill of the spare-room pillow and forgiver and forgiven cuddle down together again , harmony restore , to watch the shadow of the vine leave on the moonlit wall until they fell asleep .
And in the study below Rev . John Meredith walk the floor with rapt face and shin eye , think out his message of the morrow , and know not that under his own roof there be a little forlorn soul , stumble in darkness and ignorance , beset by terror and compass about with difficulty too great for it to grapple in it unequal struggle with a big indifferent world .
CHAPTER VI .
MARY STAYS AT THE MANSE The manse child take Mary Vance to church with them the next day .
At first Mary object to the idea .
`` Did n't you go to church over-harbour ? ''
ask Una .
`` You bet .
Mrs. Wiley never trouble church much , but I go every Sunday I could get off .
I be mighty thankful to go to some place where I could sit down for a spell .
But I ca n't go to church in this old ragged dress . ''
This difficulty be remove by Faith offer the loan of her second best dress .
`` It 's fade a little and two of the button be off , but I guess it 'll do . ''
`` I 'll sew the button on in a jiffy , '' say Mary .
`` Not on Sunday , '' say Una , shock .
`` Sure .
The good the day the good the deed .
You just gim me a needle and thread and look the other way if you 're squeamish . ''
Faith 's school boot , and an old black velvet cap that have once be Cecilia Meredith 's , complete Mary 's costume , and to church she go .
Her behaviour be quite conventional , and though some wonder who the shabby little girl with the manse child be she do not attract much attention .
She listen to the sermon with outward decorum and join lustily in the singing .
She have , it appear , a clear , strong voice and a good ear .
`` His blood can make the VIOLETS clean , '' carol Mary blithely .
Mrs. Jimmy Milgrave , whose pew be just in front of the manse pew , turn suddenly and look the child over from top to toe .
Mary , in a mere superfluity of naughtiness , stick out her tongue at Mrs. Milgrave , much to Una 's horror .
`` I could n't help it , '' she declare after church .
`` What 'd she want to stare at me like that for ?
Such manner !
I 'm GLAD stuck my tongue out at her .
I wish I 'd stick it farther out .
Say , I saw Rob MacAllister from over-harbour there .
Wonder if he 'll tell Mrs. Wiley on me . ''
No Mrs. Wiley appear , however , and in a few day the child forget to look for her .
Mary be apparently a fixture at the manse .
But she refuse to go to school with the others .
`` Nope .
I 've finish my education , '' she say , when Faith urge her to go .
`` I go to school four winter since I come to Mrs. Wiley 's and I 've have all I want of THAT .
I 'm sick and tired of be everlastingly jaw at 'cause I do n't get my home-lessons do .
I 'D no time to do home-lessons . ''
`` Our teacher wo n't jaw you .
He be awfully nice , '' say Faith .
`` Well , I ai n't go .
I can read and write and cipher up to fraction .
That 's all I want .
You fellows go and I 'll stay home .
You need n't be scar I 'll steal anything .
I swear I 'm honest . ''
Mary employ herself while the others be at school in clean up the manse .
In a few day it be a different place .
Floors be sweep , furniture dust , everything straighten out .
She mend the spare-room bed-tick , she sew on miss button , she patch clothes neatly , she even invade the study with broom and dustpan and order Mr. Meredith out while she put it to right .
But there be one department with which Aunt Martha refuse to let her interfere .
Aunt Martha might be deaf and half blind and very childish , but she be resolve to keep the commissariat in her own hand , in spite of all Mary 's wile and stratagem .
`` I can tell you if old Martha 'd let ME cook you 'd have some decent meal , '' she tell the manse child indignantly .
`` There 'd be no more ` ditto ' -- and no more lumpy porridge and blue milk either .
What DOES she do with all the cream ? ''
`` She give it to the cat .
He 's hers , you know , '' say Faith .
`` I 'd like to CAT her , `` exclaim Mary bitterly .
`` I 've no use for cat anyhow .
They belong to the old Nick .
You can tell that by their eye .
Well , if old Martha wo n't , she wo n't , I s ` pose .
But it gits on my nerve to see good vittles spoil . ''
When school come out they always go to Rainbow Valley .
Mary refuse to play in the graveyard .
She declare she be afraid of ghost .
`` There 's no such thing a ghost , '' declare Jem Blythe .
`` Oh , ai n't there ? ''
`` Did you ever see any ? ''
`` Hundreds of 'em , '' say Mary promptly .
`` What be they like ? ''
say Carl .
`` Awful-looking .
Dressed all in white with skellington hand and head , '' say Mary .
`` What do you do ? ''
ask Una .
`` Run like the devil , '' say Mary .
Then she catch Walter 's eye and blush .
Mary be a good deal in awe of Walter .
She declare to the manse girl that his eye make her nervous .
`` I think of all the lie I 've ever tell when I look into them , '' she say , `` and I wish I have n't . ''
Jem be Mary 's favourite .
When he take her to the attic at Ingleside and show her the museum of curio that Captain Jim Boyd have bequeath to him she be immensely pleased and flatter .
She also win Carl 's heart entirely by her interest in his beetle and ant .
It could not be deny that Mary get on rather well with the boy than with the girl .
She quarrel bitterly with Nan Blythe the second day .
`` Your mother be a witch , '' she tell Nan scornfully .
`` Red-haired woman be always witch . ''
Then she and Faith fell out about the rooster .
Mary say it tail be too short .
Faith angrily retort that she guess God know what length to make a rooster 's tail .
They do not `` speak '' for a day over this .
Mary treat Una 's hairless , one-eyed doll with consideration ; but when Una show her other prized treasure -- a picture of an angel carry a baby , presumably to heaven , Mary declare that it look too much like a ghost for her .
Una creep away to her room and cry over this , but Mary hunt her out , hug her repentantly and implored forgiveness .
No one could keep up a quarrel long with Mary -- not even Nan , who be rather prone to hold grudge and never quite forgive the insult to her mother .
Mary be jolly .
She could and do tell the most thrilling ghost story .
Rainbow Valley seance be undeniably more exciting after Mary come .
She learn to play on the jew 's - harp and soon eclipse Jerry .
`` Never strike anything yet I could n't do if I put my mind to it , '' she declare .
Mary seldom lose a chance of toot her own horn .
She teach them how to make `` blow-bags '' out of the thick leaf of the `` live-forever '' that flourish in the old Bailey garden , she initiate them into the toothsome quality of the `` sour '' that grow in the niche of the graveyard dyke , and she could make the most wonderful shadow picture on the wall with her long , flexible finger .
And when they all go pick gum in Rainbow Valley Mary always get `` the big chew '' and brag about it .
There be time when they hat her and time when they love her .
But at all time they find her interesting .
So they submit quite meekly to her bossing , and by the end of a fortnight have come to feel that she must always have be with them .
`` It 's the queer thing that Mrs. Wiley hai n't be after me , '' say Mary .
`` I ca n't understand it . ''
`` Maybe she be n't go to bother about you at all , '' say Una .
`` Then you can just go on stay here . ''
`` This house ai n't hardly big enough for me and old Martha , '' say Mary darkly .
`` It 's a very fine thing to have enough to eat -- I 've often wonder what it would be like -- but I 'm p ` ticler about my cooking .
And Mrs. Wiley 'll be here yet .
SHE 'S get a rod in pickle for me all right .
I do n't think about it so much in daytime but say , girl , up there in that garret at night I git to think and thinking of it , till I just almost wish she 'd come and have it over with .
I dunno 's one real good whipping would be much bad 'n all the dozen I 've live through in my mind ever since I run away .
Were any of you ever lick ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' say Faith indignantly .
`` Father would never do such a thing . ''
`` You do n't know you 're alive , '' say Mary with a sigh half of envy , half of superiority .
`` You do n't know what I 've come through .
And I s ` pose the Blythes be never lick either ? ''
`` No-o-o , I guess not .
But I THINK they be sometimes spank when they be small . ''
`` A spanking do n't amount to anything , '' say Mary contemptuously .
`` If my folk have just spank me I 'd have think they be pet me .
Well , it ai n't a fair world .
I would n't mind take my share of walloping but I 've have a darn sight too many . ''
`` It be n't right to say that word , Mary , '' say Una reproachfully .
`` You promise me you would n't say it . ''
`` G'way , '' respond Mary .
`` If you know some of the word I COULD say if I like you would n't make such a fuss over darn .
And you know very well I hai n't ever tell any lie since I come here . ''
`` What about all those ghost you say you saw ? ''
ask Faith .
Mary blush .
`` That be diff ` runt , '' she say defiantly .
`` I know you would n't believe them yarn and I do n't intend you to .
And I really do see something queer one night when I be pass the over-harbour graveyard , true 's you live .
I dunno whether 't be a ghost or Sandy Crawford 's old white nag , but it look blame queer and I tell you I scoot at the rate of no man 's business . ''
CHAPTER VII .
A FISHY EPISODE Rilla Blythe walk proudly , and perhaps a little primly , through the main `` street '' of the Glen and up the manse hill , carefully carry a small basketful of early strawberry , which Susan have coax into lusciousness in one of the sunny nook of Ingleside .
Susan have charge Rilla to give the basket to nobody except Aunt Martha or Mr. Meredith , and Rilla , very proud of be entrust with such an errand , be resolve to carry out her instruction to the letter .
Susan have dress her daintily in a white , starch , and embroider dress , with sash of blue and bead slipper .
Her long ruddy curl be sleek and round , and Susan have let her put on her best hat , out of compliment to the manse .
It be a somewhat elaborate affair , wherein Susan 's taste have have more to say than Anne 's , and Rilla 's small soul glory in it splendour of silk and lace and flower .
She be very conscious of her hat , and I be afraid she strut up the manse hill .
The strut , or the hat , or both , get on the nerve of Mary Vance , who be swing on the lawn gate .
Mary 's temper be somewhat ruffled just then , into the bargain .
Aunt Martha have refuse to let her peel the potato and have order her out of the kitchen .
`` Yah !
You 'll bring the potato to the table with strip of skin hanging to them and half boil a usual !
My , but it 'll be nice to go to your funeral , '' shriek Mary .
She go out of the kitchen , give the door such a bang that even Aunt Martha hear it , and Mr. Meredith in his study felt the vibration and think absently that there must have be a slight earthquake shock .
Then he go on with his sermon .
Mary slip from the gate and confront the spick-and-span damsel of Ingleside .
`` What you get there ? ''
she demand , try to take the basket .
Rilla resist .
`` It ` th for Mithter Meredith , '' she lisp .
`` Give it to me .
I 'LL give it to him , '' say Mary .
`` No .
Thuthan thaid that I wath n't to give it to anybody but Mithter Mer ` dith or Aunt Martha , '' insist Rilla .
Mary eye her sourly .
`` You think you 're something , do n't you , all dress up like a doll !
Look at me .
My dress be all rag and I do n't care !
I 'd rather be rag than a doll baby .
Go home and tell them to put you in a glass case .
Look at me -- look at me -- look at me ! ''
Mary execute a wild dance around the dismayed and bewilder Rilla , flirt her ragged skirt and vociferate `` Look at me -- look at me '' until poor Rilla be dizzy .
But a the latter try to edge away towards the gate Mary pounce on her again .
`` You give me that basket , '' she order with a grimace .
Mary be past mistress in the art of `` make face . ''
She could give her countenance a most grotesque and unearthly appearance out of which her strange , brilliant , white eye gleam with weird effect .
`` I wo n't , '' gasp Rilla , frighten but staunch .
`` You let me go , Mary Vanth . ''
Mary let go for a minute and look around here .
Just inside the gate be a small `` flake , '' on which a half a dozen large codfish be dry .
One of Mr. Meredith 's parishioner have present him with them one day , perhaps in lieu of the subscription he be suppose to pay to the stipend and never do .
Mr. Meredith have thank him and then forget all about the fish , which would have promptly spoil have not the indefatigable Mary prepare them for dry and rig up the `` flake '' herself on which to dry them .
Mary have a diabolical inspiration .
She fly to the `` flake '' and seize the large fish there -- a huge , flat thing , nearly as big a herself .
With a whoop she swoop down on the terrified Rilla , brandish her weird missile .
Rilla 's courage give way .
To be lambast with a dried codfish be such an unheard-of thing that Rilla could not face it .
With a shriek she drop her basket and flee .
The beautiful berry , which Susan have so tenderly select for the minister , roll in a rosy torrent over the dusty road and be tread on by the fly foot of pursuer and pursue .
The basket and content be no longer in Mary 's mind .
She think only of the delight of give Rilla Blythe the scare of her life .
She would teach HER to come give herself airs because of her fine clothes .
Rilla fly down the hill and along the street .
Terror lent wing to her foot , and she just manage to keep ahead of Mary , who be somewhat hampered by her own laughter , but who have breath enough to give occasional blood-curdling whoop a she run , flourish her codfish in the air .
Through the Glen street they sweep , while everybody run to the window and gate to see them .
Mary felt she be make a tremendous sensation and enjoy it .
Rilla , blind with terror and spent of breath , felt that she could run no longer .
In another instant that terrible girl would be on her with the codfish .
At this point the poor mite stumble and fell into the mud-puddle at the end of the street just a Miss Cornelia come out of Carter Flagg 's store .
Miss Cornelia take the whole situation in at a glance .
So do Mary .
The latter stop short in her mad career and before Miss Cornelia could speak she have whirl around and be run up as fast a she have run down .
Miss Cornelia 's lip tighten ominously , but she know it be no use to think of chase her .
So she pick up poor , sob , dishevel Rilla instead and take her home .
Rilla be heart-broken .
Her dress and slipper and hat be ruin and her six year old pride have receive terrible bruise .
Susan , white with indignation , hear Miss Cornelia 's story of Mary Vance 's exploit .
`` Oh , the hussy -- oh , the littly hussy ! ''
she say , a she carry Rilla away for purification and comfort .
`` This thing have go far enough , Anne dearie , '' say Miss Cornelia resolutely .
`` Something must be do .
WHO be this creature who be stay at the manse and where do she come from ? ''
`` I understand she be a little girl from over-harbour who be visit at the manse , '' answer Anne , who saw the comical side of the codfish chase and secretly think Rilla be rather vain and need a lesson or two .
`` I know all the over-harbour family who come to our church and that imp do n't belong to any of them , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` She be almost in rag and when she go to church she wear Faith Meredith 's old clothes .
There 's some mystery here , and I 'm go to investigate it , since it seem nobody else will .
I believe she be at the bottom of their goings-on in Warren Mead 's spruce bush the other day .
Did you hear of their frighten his mother into a fit ? ''
`` No .
I know Gilbert have be call to see her , but I do not hear what the trouble be . ''
`` Well , you know she have a weak heart .
And one day last week , when she be all alone on the veranda , she hear the most awful shriek of ` murder ' and ` help ' come from the bush -- positively frightful sound , Anne dearie .
Her heart give out at once .
Warren hear them himself at the barn , and go straight to the bush to investigate , and there he find all the manse child sit on a fall tree and scream ` murder ' at the top of their lung .
They tell him they be only in fun and do n't think anyone would hear them .
They be just play Indian ambush .
Warren go back to the house and find his poor mother unconscious on the veranda . ''
Susan , who have return , sniff contemptuously .
`` I think she be very far from be unconscious , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , and that you may tie to .
I have be hear of Amelia Warren 's weak heart for forty year .
She have it when she be twenty .
She enjoy make a fuss and have the doctor , and any excuse will do . ''
`` I do n't think Gilbert think her attack very serious , '' say Anne .
`` Oh , that may very well be , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` But the matter have make an awful lot of talk and the Meads be Methodists make it that much bad .
What be go to become of those child ?
Sometimes I ca n't sleep at night for think about them , Anne dearie .
I really do question if they get enough to eat , even , for their father be so lose in dream that he do n't often remember he have a stomach , and that lazy old woman do n't bother cook what she ought .
They be just run wild and now that school be close they 'll be bad than ever . ''
`` They do have jolly time , '' say Anne , laugh over the recollection of some Rainbow Valley happening that have come to her ear .
`` And they be all brave and frank and loyal and truthful . ''
`` That 's a true word , Anne dearie , and when you come to think of all the trouble in the church those two tattling , deceitful youngster of the last minister 's make , I 'm inclined to overlook a good deal in the Merediths . ''
`` When all be say and do , Mrs. Dr. dear , they be very nice child , '' say Susan .
`` They have get plenty of original sin in them and that I will admit , but maybe it be just as well , for if they have not they might spoil from over-sweetness .
Only I do think it be not proper for them to play in a graveyard and that I will maintain . ''
`` But they really play quite quietly there , '' excuse Anne .
`` They do n't run and yell a they do elsewhere .
Such howl a drift up here from Rainbow Valley sometimes !
Though I fancy my own small fry bear a valiant part in them .
They have a sham battle there last night and have to ` roar ' themselves , because they have no artillery to do it , so Jem say .
Jem be pass through the stage where all boys hanker to be soldier . ''
`` Well , thank goodness , he 'll never be a soldier , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` I never approve of our boy go to that South African fracas .
But it 's over , and not likely anything of the kind will ever happen again .
I think the world be get more sensible .
As for the Merediths , I 've say many a time and I say it again , if Mr. Meredith have a wife all would be well . ''
`` He call twice at the Kirks ' last week , so I be told , '' say Susan .
`` Well , '' say Miss Cornelia thoughtfully , `` a a rule , I do n't approve of a minister marrying in his congregation .
It generally spoil him .
But in this case it would do no harm , for every one like Elizabeth Kirk and nobody else be hanker for the job of stepmothering those youngster .
Even the Hill girl balk at that .
They have n't be find lay trap for Mr. Meredith .
Elizabeth would make him a good wife if he only think so .
But the trouble be , she really be homely and , Anne dearie , Mr. Meredith , abstract a he be , have an eye for a good-looking woman , man-like .
He be n't SO other-worldly when it come to that , believe ME . ''
`` Elizabeth Kirk be a very nice person , but they do say that people have nearly freeze to death in her mother 's spare-room bed before now , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan darkly .
`` If I felt I have any right to express an opinion concern such a solemn matter a a minister 's marriage I would say that I think Elizabeth 's cousin Sarah , over-harbour , would make Mr. Meredith a good wife . ''
`` Why , Sarah Kirk be a Methodist , '' say Miss Cornelia , much a if Susan have suggest a Hottentot a a manse bride .
`` She would likely turn Presbyterian if she marry Mr. Meredith , '' retort Susan .
Miss Cornelia shake her head .
Evidently with her it be , once a Methodist , always a Methodist .
`` Sarah Kirk be entirely out of the question , '' she say positively .
`` And so be Emmeline Drew -- though the Drews be all try to make the match .
They be literally throw poor Emmeline at his head , and he have n't the least idea of it . ''
`` Emmeline Drew have no gumption , I must allow , '' say Susan .
`` She be the kind of woman , Mrs. Dr. dear , who would put a hot-water bottle in your bed on a dog-night and then have her feeling hurt because you be not grateful .
And her mother be a very poor housekeeper .
Did you ever hear the story of her dishcloth ?
She lose her dishcloth one day .
But the next day she find it .
Oh , yes , Mrs. Dr. dear , she find it , in the goose at the dinner-table , mix up with the stuffing .
Do you think a woman like that would do for a minister 's mother-in-law ?
I do not .
But no doubt I would be good employ in mend little Jem 's trouser than in talk gossip about my neighbour .
He tear them something scandalous last night in Rainbow Valley . ''
`` Where be Walter ? ''
ask Anne .
`` He be up to no good , I fear , Mrs. Dr. dear .
He be in the attic writing something in an exercise book .
And he have not do as well in arithmetic this term a he should , so the teacher tell me .
Too well I know the reason why .
He have be write silly rhyme when he should have be do his sum .
I be afraid that boy be go to be a poet , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` He be a poet now , Susan . ''
`` Well , you take it real calm , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I suppose it be the best way , when a person have the strength .
I have an uncle who begin by be a poet and end up by be a tramp .
Our family be dreadfully ashamed of him . ''
`` You do n't seem to think very highly of poet , Susan , '' say Anne , laugh .
`` Who do , Mrs. Dr. dear ? ''
ask Susan in genuine astonishment .
`` What about Milton and Shakespeare ?
And the poet of the Bible ? ''
`` They tell me Milton could not get along with his wife , and Shakespeare be no more than respectable by time .
As for the Bible , of course thing be different in those sacred day -- although I never have a high opinion of King David , say what you will .
I never know any good to come of write poetry , and I hope and pray that bless boy will outgrow the tendency .
If he do not -- we must see what emulsion of cod-liver oil will do . ''
CHAPTER VIII .
MISS CORNELIA INTERVENES Miss Cornelia descend upon the manse the next day and cross-questioned Mary , who , be a young person of considerable discernment and astuteness , tell her story simple and truthfully , with an entire absence of complaint or bravado .
Miss Cornelia be more favourably impressed than she have expect to be , but deem it her duty to be severe .
`` Do you think , '' she say sternly , `` that you show your gratitude to this family , who have be far too kind to you , by insult and chase one of their little friend a you do yesterday ? ''
`` Say , it be rotten mean of me , '' admit Mary easily .
`` I dunno what possess me .
That old codfish seem to come in so blamed handy .
But I be awful sorry -- I cry last night after I go to bed about it , honest I do .
You ask Una if I do n't .
I would n't tell her what for 'cause I be ashamed of it , and then she cry , too , because she be afraid someone have hurt my feeling .
Laws , I ai n't get any feeling to hurt worth speaking of .
What worry me be why Mrs. Wiley hai n't be hunt for me .
It ai n't like her . ''
Miss Cornelia herself think it rather peculiar , but she merely admonish Mary sharply not to take any further liberty with the minister 's codfish , and go to report progress at Ingleside .
`` If the child 's story be true the matter ought to be look into , '' she say .
`` I know something about that Wiley woman , believe ME .
Marshall use to be well acquaint with her when he live over-harbour .
I hear him say something last summer about her and a home child she have -- likely this very Mary-creature .
He say some one tell him she be work the child to death and not half feeding and clothing it .
You know , Anne dearie , it have always be my habit neither to make nor meddle with those over-harbour folk .
But I shall send Marshall over to-morrow to find out the right of this if he can .
And THEN I 'll speak to the minister .
Mind you , Anne dearie , the Merediths find this girl literally starve in James Taylor 's old hay barn .
She have be there all night , cold and hungry and alone .
And u sleep warm in our bed after good supper . ''
`` The poor little thing , '' say Anne , picture one of her own dear baby , cold and hungry and alone in such circumstance .
`` If she have be ill-used , Miss Cornelia , she must n't be take back to such a place .
I be an orphan once in a very similar situation . ''
`` We 'll have to consult the Hopetown asylum folk , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Anyway , she ca n't be leave at the manse .
Dear know what those poor child might learn from her .
I understand that she have be know to swear .
But just think of her be there two whole week and Mr Meredith never wake up to it !
What business have a man like that to have a family ?
Why , Anne dearie , he ought to be a monk . ''
Two evening later Miss Cornelia be back at Ingleside .
`` It 's the most amazing thing ! ''
she say .
`` Mrs. Wiley be find dead in her bed the very morning after this Mary-creature ran away .
She have have a bad heart for year and the doctor have warn her it might happen at any time .
She have send away her hired man and there be nobody in the house .
Some neighbour find her the next day .
They miss the child , it seem , but suppose Mrs. Wiley have send her to her cousin near Charlottetown a she have say she be go to do .
The cousin do n't come to the funeral and so nobody ever know that Mary be n't with her .
The people Marshall talk to tell him some thing about the way Mrs. Wiley use this Mary that make his blood boil , so he declare .
You know , it put Marshall in a regular fury to hear of a child be ill-used .
They say she whip her mercilessly for every little fault or mistake .
Some folk talk of write to the asylum authority but everybody 's business be nobody 's business and it be never do . ''
`` I be sorry that Wiley person be dead , '' say Susan fiercely .
`` I should like to go over-harbour and give her a piece of my mind .
Starving and beat a child , Mrs. Dr. dear !
As you know , I hold with lawful spanking , but I go no far .
And what be to become of this poor child now , Mrs. Marshall Elliott ? ''
`` I suppose she must be send back to Hopetown , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` I think every one hereabouts who want a home child have one .
I 'll see Mr. Meredith to-morrow and tell him my opinion of the whole affair . ''
`` And no doubt she will , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , after Miss Cornelia have go .
`` She would stick at nothing , not even at shingle the church spire if she take it into her head .
But I can not understand how even Cornelia Bryant can talk to a minister a she do .
You would think he be just any common person . ''
When Miss Cornelia have go , Nan Blythe uncurl herself from the hammock where she have be study her lesson and slip away to Rainbow Valley .
The others be already there .
Jem and Jerry be play quoit with old horseshoe borrow from the Glen blacksmith .
Carl be stalk ant on a sunny hillock .
Walter , lie on his stomach among the fern , be read aloud to Mary and Di and Faith and Una from a wonderful book of myth wherein be fascinate account of Prester John and the Wandering Jew , divine rod and tail men , of Schamir , the worm that split rock and open the way to golden treasure , of Fortunate Isles and swan-maidens .
It be a great shock to Walter to learn that William Tell and Gelert be myth also ; and the story of Bishop Hatto be to keep him awake all that night ; but best of all he love the story of the Pied Piper and the San Greal .
He read them thrillingly , while the bell on the Tree Lovers tinkle in the summer wind and the coolness of the evening shadow creep across the valley .
`` Say , ai n't them in ` rest lie ? ''
say Mary admiringly when Walter have close the book .
`` They be n't lie , '' say Di indignantly .
`` You do n't mean they 're true ? ''
ask Mary incredulously .
`` No -- not exactly .
They 're like those ghost-stories of yours .
They be n't true -- but you do n't expect u to believe them , so they be n't lie . ''
`` That yarn about the divining rod be no lie , anyhow , '' say Mary .
`` Old Jake Crawford over-harbour can work it .
They send for him from everywhere when they want to dig a well .
And I believe I know the Wandering Jew . ''
`` Oh , Mary , '' say Una , awe-struck .
`` I do -- true 's you 're alive .
There be an old man at Mrs. Wiley 's one day last fall .
He look old enough to be ANYTHING .
She be ask him about cedar post , if he think they 'd last well .
And he say , ` Last well ?
They 'll last a thousand year .
I know , for I 've try them twice . '
Now , if he be two thousand year old who be he but your Wandering Jew ? ''
`` I do n't believe the Wandering Jew would associate with a person like Mrs. Wiley , '' say Faith decidedly .
`` I love the Pied Piper story , '' say Di , `` and so do mother .
I always feel so sorry for the poor little lame boy who could n't keep up with the others and get shut out of the mountain .
He must have be so disappointed .
I think all the rest of his life he 'd be wonder what wonderful thing he have miss and wish he could have get in with the others . ''
`` But how glad his mother must have be , '' say Una softly .
`` I think she have be sorry all her life that he be lame .
Perhaps she even use to cry about it .
But she would never be sorry again -- never .
She would be glad he be lame because that be why she have n't lose him . ''
`` Some day , '' say Walter dreamily , look afar into the sky , `` the Pied Piper will come over the hill up there and down Rainbow Valley , pip merrily and sweetly .
And I will follow him -- follow him down to the shore -- down to the sea -- away from you all .
I do n't think I 'll want to go -- Jem will want to go -- it will be such an adventure -- but I wo n't .
Only I 'll HAVE to -- the music will call and call and call me until I MUST follow . ''
`` We 'll all go , '' cry Di , catch fire at the flame of Walter 's fancy , and half-believing she could see the mocking , retreat figure of the mystic piper in the far , dim end of the valley .
`` No .
You 'll sit here and wait , '' say Walter , his great , splendid eye full of strange glamour .
`` You 'll wait for u to come back .
And we may not come -- for we can not come as long a the Piper play .
He may pipe u round the world .
And still you 'll sit here and wait -- and WAIT . ''
`` Oh , dry up , '' say Mary , shiver .
`` Do n't look like that , Walter Blythe .
You give me the creep .
Do you want to set me bawl ?
I could just see that horrid old Piper go away on , and you boys follow him , and u girl sit here wait all alone .
I dunno why it be -- I never be one of the blubbering kind -- but as soon a you start your spieling I always want to cry . ''
Walter smile in triumph .
He like to exercise this power of his over his companion -- to play on their feeling , waken their fear , thrill their soul .
It satisfy some dramatic instinct in him .
But under his triumph be a queer little chill of some mysterious dread .
The Pied Piper have seem very real to him -- a if the fluttering veil that hide the future have for a moment be blow aside in the starlit dusk of Rainbow Valley and some dim glimpse of come year grant to him .
Carl , come up to their group with a report of the doings in ant-land , bring them all back to the realm of fact .
`` Ants ARE darn in ` resting , '' exclaim Mary , glad to escape the shadowy Piper 's thrall .
`` Carl and me watch that bed in the graveyard all Saturday afternoon .
I never think there be so much in bug .
Say , but they 're quarrelsome little cuss -- some of 'em like to start a fight ` thout any reason , far 's we could see .
And some of 'em be coward .
They get so scared they just double theirselves up into a ball and let the other fellow bang 'em .
They would n't put up a fight at all .
Some of 'em be lazy and wo n't work .
We watch 'em shirk .
And there be one ant die of grief 'cause another ant get kill -- would n't work -- would n't eat -- just die -- it do , honest to Go -- oodness . ''
A shocked silence prevail .
Every one knew that Mary have not start out to say `` goodness . ''
Faith and Di exchange glance that would have do credit to Miss Cornelia herself .
Walter and Carl look uncomfortable and Una 's lip tremble .
Mary squirm uncomfortably .
`` That slip out ` fore I think -- it do , honest to -- I mean , true 's you live , and I swallow half of it .
You folks over here be mighty squeamish seem to me .
Wish you could have hear the Wileys when they have a fight . ''
`` Ladies do n't say such thing , '' say Faith , very primly for her .
`` It be n't right , '' whisper Una .
`` I ai n't a lady , '' say Mary .
`` What chance 've I ever have of be a lady ?
But I wo n't say that again if I can help it .
I promise you . ''
`` Besides , '' say Una , `` you ca n't expect God to answer your prayer if you take His name in vain , Mary . ''
`` I do n't expect Him to answer 'em anyhow , '' say Mary of little faith .
`` I 've be ask Him for a week to clear up this Wiley affair and He have n't do a thing .
I 'm go to give up . ''
At this juncture Nan arrive breathless .
`` Oh , Mary , I 've news for you .
Mrs. Elliott have be over-harbour and what do you think she find out ?
Mrs. Wiley be dead -- she be find dead in bed the morning after you run away .
So you 'll never have to go back to her . ''
`` Dead ! ''
say Mary stupefy .
Then she shiver .
`` Do you s ` pose my praying have anything to do with that ? ''
she cry imploringly to Una .
`` If it have I 'll never pray again as long a I live .
Why , she may come back and ha ` nt me . ''
`` No , no , Mary , '' say Una comfortingly , `` it have n't .
Why , Mrs. Wiley die long before you ever begin to pray about it at all . ''
`` That 's so , '' say Mary recover from her panic .
`` But I tell you it give me a start .
I would n't like to think I 'd pray anybody to death .
I never think of such a thing a her die when I be pray .
She do n't seem much like the die kind .
Did Mrs. Elliott say anything about me ? ''
`` She say you would likely have to go back to the asylum . ''
`` I think as much , '' say Mary drearily .
`` And then they 'll give me out again -- likely to some one just like Mrs. Wiley .
Well , I s ` pose I can stand it .
I 'm tough . ''
`` I 'm go to pray that you wo n't have to go back , '' whisper Una , a she and Mary walk home to the manse .
`` You can do a you like , '' say Mary decidedly , `` but I vow I wo n't .
I 'm good and scared of this praying business .
See what 's come of it .
If Mrs. Wiley HAD die after I start pray it would have be my doings . ''
`` Oh , no , it would n't , '' say Una .
`` I wish I could explain thing good -- father could , I know , if you 'd talk to him , Mary . ''
`` Catch me !
I do n't know what to make of your father , that 's the long and short of it .
He go by me and never see me in broad daylight .
I ai n't proud -- but I ai n't a door-mat , neither ! ''
`` Oh , Mary , it 's just father 's way .
Most of the time he never see u , either .
He be think deeply , that be all .
And I AM go to pray that God will keep you in Four Winds -- because I like you , Mary . ''
`` All right .
Only do n't let me hear of any more people die on account of it , '' say Mary .
`` I 'd like to stay in Four Winds fine .
I like it and I like the harbour and the light house -- and you and the Blythes .
You 're the only friend I ever have and I 'd hate to leave you . ''
CHAPTER IX .
UNA INTERVENES Miss Cornelia have an interview with Mr. Meredith which prove something of a shock to that abstracted gentleman .
She point out to him , none too respectfully , his dereliction of duty in allow a waif like Mary Vance to come into his family and associate with his child without know or learn anything about her .
`` I do n't say there be much harm do , of course , '' she conclude .
`` This Mary-creature be n't what you might call bad , when all be say and do .
I 've be question your child and the Blythes , and from what I can make out there 's nothing much to be say against the child except that she 's slangy and do n't use very refined language .
But think what might have happen if she 'd be like some of those home child we know of .
You know yourself what that poor little creature the Jim Flaggs ' have , taught and tell the Flagg child . ''
Mr. Meredith do know and be honestly shock over his own carelessness in the matter .
`` But what be to be do , Mrs. Elliott ? ''
he ask helplessly .
`` We ca n't turn the poor child out .
She must be care for . ''
`` Of course .
We 'd well write to the Hopetown authority at once .
Meanwhile , I suppose she might as well stay here for a few more day till we hear from them .
But keep your eye and ear open , Mr. Meredith . ''
Susan would have die of horror on the spot if she have hear Miss Cornelia so admonish a minister .
But Miss Cornelia depart in a warm glow of satisfaction over duty do , and that night Mr. Meredith ask Mary to come into his study with him .
Mary obey , look literally ghastly with fright .
But she get the surprise of her poor , batter little life .
This man , of whom she have stand so terribly in awe , be the kind , gentle soul she have ever meet .
Before she know what happen Mary find herself pour all her trouble into his ear and receiving in return such sympathy and tender understanding a it have never occur to her to imagine .
Mary leave the study with her face and eye so soften that Una hardly know her .
`` Your father 's all right , when he do wake up , '' she say with a sniff that just escape be a sob .
`` It 's a pity he do n't wake up oftener .
He say I be n't to blame for Mrs. Wiley dying , but that I must try to think of her good point and not of her bad one .
I dunno what good point she have , unless it be keep her house clean and make first-class butter .
I know I ` most wear my arm out scrub her old kitchen floor with the knot in it .
But anything your father say go with me after this . ''
Mary prove a rather dull companion in the following day , however .
She confide to Una that the more she think of go back to the asylum the more she hat it .
Una rack her small brain for some way of avert it , but it be Nan Blythe who come to the rescue with a somewhat startling suggestion .
`` Mrs. Elliott might take Mary herself .
She have a great big house and Mr. Elliott be always want her to have help .
It would be just a splendid place for Mary .
Only she 'd have to behave herself . ''
`` Oh , Nan , do you think Mrs. Elliott would take her ? ''
`` It would n't do any harm if you ask her , '' say Nan .
At first Una do not think she could .
She be so shy that to ask a favour of anybody be agony to her .
And she be very much in awe of the bustling , energetic Mrs. Elliott .
She like her very much and always enjoy a visit to her house ; but to go and ask her to adopt Mary Vance seem such a height of presumption that Una 's timid spirit quail .
When the Hopetown authority write to Mr. Meredith to send Mary to them without delay Mary cry herself to sleep in the manse attic that night and Una find a desperate courage .
The next evening she slip away from the manse to the harbour road .
Far down in Rainbow Valley she hear joyous laughter but her way lay not there .
She be terribly pale and terribly in earnest -- so much so that she take no notice of the people she meet -- and old Mrs. Stanley Flagg be quite huffed and say Una Meredith would be as absentminded a her father when she grow up .
Miss Cornelia live half way between the Glen and Four Winds Point , in a house whose original glaring green hue have mellow down to an agreeable greenish gray .
Marshall Elliott have plant tree about it and set out a rise garden and a spruce hedge .
It be quite a different place from what it have be in year agone .
The manse child and the Ingleside child like to go there .
It be a beautiful walk down the old harbour road , and there be always a well-filled cooky jar at the end .
The misty sea be lap softly far down on the sand .
Three big boat be skim down the harbour like great white sea-birds .
A schooner be come up the channel .
The world of Four Winds be steep in glow colour , and subtle music , and strange glamour , and everybody should have be happy in it .
But when Una turn in at Miss Cornelia 's gate her very legs have almost refuse to carry her .
Miss Cornelia be alone on the veranda .
Una have hop Mr. Elliott would be there .
He be so big and hearty and twinkly that there would be encouragement in his presence .
She sit on the little stool Miss Cornelia bring out and try to eat the doughnut Miss Cornelia give her .
It stick in her throat , but she swallow desperately l Miss Cornelia be offend .
She could not talk ; she be still pale ; and her big , dark-blue eye look so piteous that Miss Cornelia conclude the child be in some trouble .
`` What 's on your mind , dearie ? ''
she ask .
`` There 's something , that 's plain to be see . ''
Una swallow the last twist of doughnut with a desperate gulp .
`` Mrs. Elliott , wo n't you take Mary Vance ? ''
she say beseechingly .
Miss Cornelia star blankly .
`` Me !
Take Mary Vance !
Do you mean keep her ? ''
`` Yes -- keep her -- adopt her , '' say Una eagerly , gain courage now that the ice be break .
`` Oh , Mrs. Elliott , PLEASE do .
She do n't want to go back to the asylum -- she cry every night about it .
She 's so afraid of be send to another hard place .
And she 's SO smart -- there be n't anything she ca n't do .
I know you would n't be sorry if you take her . ''
`` I never think of such a thing , '' say Miss Cornelia rather helplessly .
`` WO N'T you think of it ? ''
implored Una .
`` But , dearie , I do n't want help .
I 'm quite able to do all the work here .
And I never think I 'd like to have a home girl if I do need help . ''
The light go out of Una 's eye .
Her lip tremble .
She sit down on her stool again , a pathetic little figure of disappointment , and begin to cry .
`` Do n't -- dearie -- do n't , '' exclaim Miss Cornelia in distress .
She could never bear to hurt a child .
`` I do n't say I WO N'T take her -- but the idea be so new it have just kerflummuxed me .
I must think it over . ''
`` Mary be SO smart , '' say Una again .
`` Humph !
So I 've hear .
I 've hear she swears , too .
Is that true ? ''
`` I 've never hear her swear EXACTLY , '' falter Una uncomfortably .
`` But I 'm afraid she COULD . ''
`` I believe you !
Does she always tell the truth ? ''
`` I think she do , except when she 's afraid of a whipping . ''
`` And yet you want me to take her ! ''
`` SOME ONE have to take her , '' sob Una .
`` SOME ONE have to look after her , Mrs. Elliott . ''
`` That 's true .
Perhaps it IS my duty to do it , '' say Miss Cornelia with a sigh .
`` Well , I 'll have to talk it over with Mr. Elliott .
So do n't say anything about it just yet .
Take another doughnut , dearie . ''
Una take it and eat it with a good appetite .
`` I 'm very fond of doughnut , '' she confess `` Aunt Martha never make any .
But Miss Susan at Ingleside do , and sometimes she let u have a plateful in Rainbow Valley .
Do you know what I do when I 'm hungry for doughnut and ca n't get any , Mrs. Elliott ? ''
`` No , dearie .
What ? ''
`` I get out mother 's old cook book and read the doughnut recipe -- and the other recipe .
They sound SO nice .
I always do that when I 'm hungry -- especially after we 've have ditto for dinner .
THEN I read the fried chicken and the roast goose recipe .
Mother could make all those nice thing . ''
`` Those manse child will starve to death yet if Mr. Meredith do n't get married , '' Miss Cornelia tell her husband indignantly after Una have go .
`` And he wo n't -- and what 's to be do ?
And SHALL we take this Mary-creature , Marshall ? ''
`` Yes , take her , '' say Marshall laconically .
`` Just like a man , '' say his wife , despairingly . ''
` Take her ' -- a if that be all .
There be a hundred thing to be consider , believe ME . ''
`` Take her -- and we 'll consider them afterwards , Cornelia , '' say her husband .
In the end Miss Cornelia do take her and go up to announce her decision to the Ingleside people first .
`` Splendid ! ''
say Anne delightedly .
`` I 've be hop you would do that very thing , Miss Cornelia .
I want that poor child to get a good home .
I be a homeless little orphan just like her once . ''
`` I do n't think this Mary-creature be or ever will be much like you , '' retort Miss Cornelia gloomily .
`` She 's a cat of another colour .
But she 's also a human be with an immortal soul to save .
I 've get a short catechism and a small tooth comb and I 'm go to do my duty by her , now that I 've set my hand to the plough , believe me . ''
Mary receive the news with chastened satisfaction .
`` It 's good luck than I expect , '' she say .
`` You 'll have to mind your p 's and q 's with Mrs. Elliott , '' say Nan .
`` Well , I can do that , '' flash Mary .
`` I know how to behave when I want to just as well a you , Nan Blythe . ''
`` You must n't use bad word , you know , Mary , '' say Una anxiously .
`` I s ` pose she 'd die of horror if I do , '' grin Mary , her white eye shin with unholy glee over the idea .
`` But you need n't worry , Una .
Butter wo n't melt in my mouth after this .
I 'll be all prune and prism . ''
`` Nor tell lie , '' add Faith .
`` Not even to get off from a whipping ? ''
plead Mary .
`` Mrs. Elliott will NEVER whip you -- NEVER , '' exclaim Di .
`` Wo n't she ? ''
say Mary skeptically .
`` If I ever find myself in a place where I ai n't lick I 'll think it 's heaven all right .
No fear of me tell lie then .
I ai n't fond of tell 'em -- I 'd ruther not , if it come to that . ''
The day before Mary 's departure from the manse they have a picnic in her honour in Rainbow Valley , and that even all the manse child give her something from their scanty store of treasured thing for a keepsake .
Carl give her his Noah 's ark and Jerry his second best jew 's - harp .
Faith give her a little hairbrush with a mirror in the back of it , which Mary have always consider very wonderful .
Una hesitate between an old beaded purse and a gay picture of Daniel in the lion 's den , and finally offer Mary her choice .
Mary really hanker after the beaded purse , but she know Una love it , so she say , `` Give me Daniel .
I 'd rusher have it 'cause I 'm partial to lion .
Only I wish they 'd et Daniel up .
It would have be more exciting . ''
At bedtime Mary coax Una to sleep with her .
`` It 's for the last time , '' she say , `` and it 's rain tonight , and I hate sleep up there alone when it 's rain on account of that graveyard .
I do n't mind it on fine night , but a night like this I ca n't see anything but the rain pour down on them old white stone , and the wind round the window sound a if them dead people be try to get in and cry 'cause they could n't . ''
`` I like rainy night , '' say Una , when they be cuddle down together in the little attic room , `` and so do the Blythe girl . ''
`` I do n't mind 'em when I 'm not handy to graveyard , '' say Mary .
`` If I be alone here I 'd cry my eye out I 'd be so lonesome .
I feel awful bad to be leave you all . ''
`` Mrs. Elliott will let you come up and play in Rainbow Valley quite often I 'm sure , '' say Una .
`` And you WILL be a good girl , wo n't you , Mary ? ''
`` Oh , I 'll try , '' sigh Mary .
`` But it wo n't be a easy for me to be good -- inside , I mean , as well a outside -- a it be for you .
You have n't such scalawag of relation a I have . ''
`` But your people must have have some good quality as well a bad one , '' argue Una .
`` You must live up to them and never mind their bad one . ''
`` I do n't believe they have any good quality , '' say Mary gloomily .
`` I never heard of any .
My grandfather have money , but they say he be a rascal .
No , I 'll just have to start out on my own hook and do the best I can . ''
`` And God will help you , you know , Mary , if you ask Him . ''
`` I do n't know about that . ''
`` Oh , Mary .
You know we ask God to get a home for you and He do . ''
`` I do n't see what He have to do with it , '' retort Mary .
`` It be you put it into Mrs. Elliott 's head . ''
`` But God put it into her HEART to take you .
All my put it into her HEAD would n't have do any good if He have n't . ''
`` Well , there may be something in that , '' admit Mary .
`` Mind you , I have n't get anything against God , Una .
I 'm willing to give Him a chance .
But , honest , I think He 's an awful lot like your father -- just absent-minded and never take any notice of a body most of the time , but sometimes wake up all of a suddent and be awful good and kind and sensible . ''
`` Oh , Mary , no ! ''
exclaim horrified Una .
`` God be n't a bit like father -- I mean He 's a thousand time well and kinder . ''
`` If He 's as good a your father He 'll do for me , '' say Mary .
`` When your father be talk to me I felt a if I never could be bad any more . ''
`` I wish you 'd talk to father about Him , '' sigh Una .
`` He can explain it all so much good than I can . ''
`` Why , so I will , next time he wake up , '' promise Mary .
`` That night he talk to me in the study he show me real clear that my praying do n't kill Mrs. Wiley .
My mind 's be easy since , but I 'm real cautious about pray .
I guess the old rhyme be the safest .
Say , Una , it seem to me if one have to pray to anybody it 'd be good to pray to the devil than to God .
God 's good , anyhow so you say , so He wo n't do you any harm , but from all I can make out the devil need to be pacify .
I think the sensible way would be to say to HIM , ` Good devil , please do n't tempt me .
Just leave me alone , please . '
Now , do n't you ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , Mary .
I 'm sure it could n't be right to pray to the devil .
And it would n't do any good because he 's bad .
It might aggravate him and he 'd be bad than ever . ''
`` Well , a to this God-matter , '' say Mary stubbornly , `` since you and I ca n't settle it , there ai n't no use in talk more about it until we 've a chanct to find out the right of it .
I 'll do the best I can alone till then . ''
`` If mother be alive she could tell u everything , '' say Una with a sigh .
`` I wisht she be alive , '' say Mary .
`` I do n't know what 's go to become of you youngster when I 'm go .
Anyhow , DO try and keep the house a little tidy .
The way people talk about it be scandalous .
And the first thing you know your father will be get marry again and then your nose will be out of joint . ''
Una be startle .
The idea of her father marrying again have never present itself to her before .
She do not like it and she lay silent under the chill of it .
`` Stepmothers be AWFUL creature , '' Mary go on .
`` I could make your blood run cold if I be to tell you all I know about 'em .
The Wilson kid across the road from Wiley 's have a stepmother .
She be just as bad to 'em a Mrs. Wiley be to me .
It 'll be awful if you get a stepmother . ''
`` I 'm sure we wo n't , '' say Una tremulously .
`` Father wo n't marry anybody else . ''
`` He 'll be hound into it , I expect , '' say Mary darkly .
`` All the old maid in the settlement be after him .
There 's no be up to them .
And the bad of stepmother be , they always set your father against you .
He 'd never care anything about you again .
He 'd always take her part and her child 's part .
You see , she 'd make him believe you be all bad . ''
`` I wish you have n't tell me this , Mary , '' cry Una .
`` It make me feel so unhappy . ''
`` I only want to warn you , '' say Mary , rather repentantly .
`` Of course , your father 's so absent-minded he might n't happen to think of get marry again .
But it 's good to be prepare . ''
Long after Mary sleep serenely little Una lay awake , her eye smart with tear .
On , how dreadful it would be if her father should marry somebody who would make him hate her and Jerry and Faith and Carl !
She could n't bear it -- she could n't !
Mary have not instill any poison of the kind Miss Cornelia have fear into the manse child 's mind .
Yet she have certainly contrive to do a little mischief with the best of intention .
But she sleep dreamlessly , while Una lay awake and the rain fell and the wind wail around the old gray manse .
And the Rev . John Meredith forget to go to bed at all because he be absorb in read a life of St. Augustine .
It be gray dawn when he finish it and go upstairs , wrestle with the problem of two thousand year ago .
The door of the girl ' room be open and he saw Faith lie asleep , rosy and beautiful .
He wonder where Una be .
Perhaps she have go over to `` stay all night '' with the Blythe girl .
She do this occasionally , deem it a great treat .
John Meredith sigh .
He felt that Una 's whereabouts ought not to be a mystery to him .
Cecelia would have look after her good than that .
If only Cecelia be still with him !
How pretty and gay she have be !
How the old manse up at Maywater have echo to her song !
And she have go away so suddenly , take her laughter and music and leave silence -- so suddenly that he have never quite get over his feeling of amazement .
How could SHE , the beautiful and vivid , have die ?
The idea of a second marriage have never present itself seriously to John Meredith .
He have love his wife so deeply that he believe he could never care for any woman again .
He have a vague idea that before very long Faith would be old enough to take her mother 's place .
Until then , he must do the best he could alone .
He sigh and go to his room , where the bed be still unmade .
Aunt Martha have forget it , and Mary have not dare to make it because Aunt Martha have forbid her to meddle with anything in the minister 's room .
But Mr. Meredith do not notice that it be unmade .
His last thought be of St. Augustine .
CHAPTER X .
THE MANSE GIRLS CLEAN HOUSE `` Ugh , '' say Faith , sit up in bed with a shiver .
`` It 's rain .
I do hate a rainy Sunday .
Sunday be dull enough even when it 's fine . ''
`` We ought n't to find Sunday dull , '' say Una sleepily , try to pull her drowsy wits together with an uneasy conviction that they have oversleep .
`` But we DO , you know , '' say Faith candidly .
`` Mary Vance say most Sundays be so dull she could hang herself . ''
`` We ought to like Sunday good than Mary Vance , '' say Una remorsefully .
`` We 're the minister 's child . ''
`` I wish we be a blacksmith 's child , '' protest Faith angrily , hunt for her stocking .
`` THEN people would n't expect u to be good than other child .
JUST look at the hole in my heel .
Mary darn them all up before she go away , but they 're as bad a ever now .
Una , get up .
I ca n't get the breakfast alone .
Oh , dear .
I wish father and Jerry be home .
You would n't think we 'd miss father much -- we do n't see much of him when he be home .
And yet EVERYTHING seem go .
I must run in and see how Aunt Martha be . ''
`` Is she any good ? ''
ask Una , when Faith return .
`` No , she be n't .
She 's groan with the misery still .
Maybe we ought to tell Dr. Blythe .
But she say not -- she never have a doctor in her life and she be n't go to begin now .
She say doctor just live by poison people .
Do you suppose they do ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' say Una indignantly .
`` I 'm sure Dr. Blythe would n't poison anybody . ''
`` Well , we 'll have to rub Aunt Martha 's back again after breakfast .
We 'd well not make the flannel as hot a we do yesterday . ''
Faith giggle over the remembrance .
They have nearly scald the skin off poor Aunt Martha 's back .
Una sigh .
Mary Vance would have know just what the precise temperature of flannel for a misery back should be .
Mary know everything .
They know nothing .
And how could they learn , save by bitter experience for which , in this instance , unfortunate Aunt Martha have pay ?
The precede Monday Mr. Meredith have leave for Nova Scotia to spend his short vacation , take Jerry with him .
On Wednesday Aunt Martha be suddenly seize with a recurring and mysterious ailment which she always call `` the misery , '' and which be tolerably certain to attack her at the most inconvenient time .
She could not rise from her bed , any movement causing agony .
A doctor she flatly refuse to have .
