In all his life he have never disobey her .
Besides , with it all , he love her more deeply and understandingly than most son love their mother .
He realize that , since she would have it so , his choice be already make -- or , rather that he have no choice .
`` Have your way , '' he say sullenly .
She run to him and catch him to her heart .
In the reaction of her feeling she be half laughing , half cry .
All be well again -- all would be well ; she never doubt this , for she know he would keep his ungracious promise sacredly .
`` Oh , my son , my son , '' she murmur , `` you 'd have send me to my death if you have choose otherwise .
But now you be mine again ! ''
She do not heed that he be sullen -- that he resent her unjustice with all her own intensity .
She do not heed his silence a they go into the house together .
Strangely enough , she sleep well and soundly that night .
Not until many day have pass do she understand that , though Chester might keep his promise in the letter , it be beyond his power to keep it in the spirit .
She have take him from Damaris Garland ; but she have not win him back to herself .
He could never be wholly her son again .
There be a barrier between them which not all her passionate love could break down .
Chester be gravely kind to her , for it be not in his nature to remain sullen long , or visit his own unhappiness upon another 's head ; besides , he understand her exact affection , even in it injustice , and it have be well-said that to understand be to forgive .
But he avoid her , and she know it .
The flame of her anger burn bitterly towards Damaris .
`` He think of her all the time , '' she moan to herself .
`` He 'll come to hate me yet , I fear , because it 's I who make him give her up .
But I 'd rather even that than share him with another woman .
Oh , my son , my son ! ''
She know that Damaris be suffer , too .
The girl 's wan face tell that when she meet her .
But this pleased Thyra .
It ease the ache in her bitter heart to know that pain be gnaw at Damaris ' also .
Chester be absent from home very often now .
He spend much of his spare time at the harbor , consort with Joe Raymond and others of that ilk , who be but sorry associate for him , Avonlea people think .
In late November he and Joe start for a trip down the coast in the latter 's boat .
Thyra protest against it , but Chester laugh at her alarm .
Thyra saw him go with a heart sick from fear .
She hat the sea , and be afraid of it at any time ; but , most of all , in this treacherous month , with it sudden , wild gale .
Chester have be fond of the sea from boyhood .
She have always try to stifle this fondness and break off his association with the harbor fisherman , who like to lure the high-spirited boy out with them on fish expedition .
But her power over him be go now .
After Chester 's departure she be restless and miserable , wander from window to window to scan the dour , unsmiling sky .
Carl White , drop in to pay a call , be alarm when he hear that Chester have go with Joe , and have not tact enough to conceal his alarm from Thyra . '' '
T be n't safe this time of year , '' he say .
`` Folks expect no good from that reckless , harum-scarum Joe Raymond .
He 'll drown himself some day , there 's nothing surer .
This mad freak of start off down the shore in November be just of a piece with his usual performance .
But you should n't have let Chester go , Thyra . ''
`` I could n't prevent him .
Say what I could , he would go .
He laugh when I speak of danger .
Oh , he 's change from what he be !
I know who have work the change , and I hate her for it ! ''
Carl shrug his fat shoulder .
He know quite well that Thyra be at the bottom of the sudden coldness between Chester Carewe and Damaris Garland , about which Avonlea gossip be busy itself .
He pity Thyra , too .
She have age rapidly the past month .
`` You 're too hard on Chester , Thyra .
He 's out of leading-strings now , or should be .
You must just let me take an old friend 's privilege , and tell you that you 're take the wrong way with him .
You 're too jealous and exact , Thyra . ''
`` You do n't know anything about it .
You have never have a son , '' say Thyra , cruelly enough , for she know that Carl 's sonlessness be a rankle thorn in his mind .
`` You do n't know what it be to pour out your love on one human be , and have it fling back in your face ! ''
Carl could not cope with Thyra 's mood .
He have never understand her , even in his youth .
Now he go home , still shrug his shoulder , and think that it be a good thing Thyra have not look on him with favor in the old day .
Cynthia be much easy to get along with .
More than Thyra look anxiously to sea and sky that night in Avonlea .
Damaris Garland listen to the smothered roar of the Atlantic in the murky northeast with a prescience of coming disaster .
Friendly longshoreman shake their head and say that Ches and Joe would well have keep to good , dry land .
`` It 's sorry work joke with a November gale , '' say Abel Blair .
He be an old man and , in his life , have see some sad thing along the shore .
Thyra could not sleep that night .
When the gale come shriek up the river , and strike the house , she get out of bed and dress herself .
The wind scream like a ravening beast at her window .
All night she wander to and fro in the house , go from room to room , now wring her hand with loud outcry , now pray below her breath with white lip , now listen in dumb misery to the fury of the storm .
The wind rag all the next day ; but spend itself in the following night , and the second morning be calm and fair .
The eastern sky be a great arc of crystal , smite through with auroral crimsonings .
Thyra , look from her kitchen window , saw a group of men on the bridge .
They be talk to Carl White , with look and gesture direct towards the Carewe house .
She go out and down to them .
None of these who saw her white , rigid face that day ever forget the sight .
`` You have news for me , '' she say .
They look at each other , each man mutely implore his neighbor to speak .
`` You need not fear to tell me , '' say Thyra calmly .
`` I know what you have come to say .
My son be drown . ''
`` We do n't know THAT , Mrs. Carewe , '' say Abel Blair quickly .
`` We have n't get the bad to tell you -- there 's hope yet .
But Joe Raymond 's boat be find last night , strand bottom up , on the Blue Point sand shore , forty mile down the coast . ''
`` Do n't look like that , Thyra , '' say Carl White pityingly .
`` They may have escape -- they may have be pick up . ''
Thyra look at him with dull eye .
`` You know they have not .
Not one of you have any hope .
I have no son .
The sea have take him from me -- my bonny baby ! ''
She turn and go back to her desolate home .
None dare to follow her .
Carl White go home and send his wife over to her .
Cynthia find Thyra sit in her accustomed chair .
Her hand lay , palm upward , on her lap .
Her eye be dry and burning .
She meet Cynthia 's compassionate look with a fearful smile .
`` Long ago , Cynthia White , '' she say slowly , `` you be vex with me one day , and you tell me that God would punish me yet , because I make an idol of my son , and set it up in His place .
Do you remember ?
Your word be a true one .
God saw that I love Chester too much , and He mean to take him from me .
I thwart one way when I make him give up Damaris .
But one ca n't fight against the Almighty .
It be decree that I must lose him -- if not in one way , then in another .
He have be take from me utterly .
I shall not even have his grave to tend , Cynthia . ''
`` As near to a mad woman a anything you ever saw , with her awful eye , '' Cynthia tell Carl , afterwards .
But she do not say so there .
Although she be a shallow , commonplace soul , she have her share of womanly sympathy , and her own life have not be free from suffer .
It teach her the right thing to do now .
She sit down by the stricken creature and put her arm about her , while she gather the cold hand in her own warm clasp .
The tear fill her big , blue eye and her voice tremble a she say : `` Thyra , I 'm sorry for you .
I -- I -- lose a child once -- my little first-born .
And Chester be a dear , good lad . ''
For a moment Thyra strain her small , tense body away from Cynthia 's embrace .
Then she shudder and cry out .
The tear come , and she weep her agony out on the other woman 's breast .
As the ill news spread , other Avonlea woman keep drop in all through the day to condole with Thyra .
Many of them come in real sympathy , but some out of mere curiosity to see how she take it .
Thyra know this , but she do not resent it , a she would once have do .
She listen very quietly to all the halting effort at consolation , and the little platitude with which they strive to cover the nakedness of bereavement .
When darkness come Cynthia say she must go home , but would send one of her girl over for the night .
`` You wo n't feel like stay alone , '' she say .
Thyra look up steadily .
`` No .
But I want you to send for Damaris Garland . ''
`` Damaris Garland ! ''
Cynthia repeat the name a if disbelieve her own ear .
There be never any know what whim Thyra might take , but Cynthia have not expect this .
`` Yes .
Tell her I want her -- tell her she must come .
She must hate me bitterly ; but I be punish enough to satisfy even her hate .
Tell her to come to me for Chester 's sake . ''
Cynthia do a she be bid , she send her daughter , Jeanette , for Damaris .
Then she wait .
No matter what duties be call for her at home she must see the interview between Thyra and Damaris .
Her curiosity would be the last thing to fail Cynthia White .
She have do very well all day ; but it would be ask too much of her to expect that she would consider the meeting of these two woman sacred from her eye .
She half believe that Damaris would refuse to come .
But Damaris come .
Jeanette bring her in amid the fiery glow of a November sunset .
Thyra stand up , and for a moment they look at each other .
The insolence of Damaris ' beauty be go .
Her eye be dull and heavy with weep , her lip be pale , and her face have lose it laughter and dimple .
Only her hair , escape from the shawl she have cast around it , gush forth in warm splendor in the sunset light , and frame her wan face like the aureole of a Madonna .
Thyra look upon her with a shock of remorse .
This be not the radiant creature she have meet on the bridge that summer afternoon .
This -- this -- be HER work .
She hold out her arm .
`` Oh , Damaris , forgive me .
We both love him -- that must be a bond between u for life . ''
Damaris come forward and throw her arm about the old woman , lift her face .
As their lip meet even Cynthia White realize that she have no business there .
She vent the irritation of her embarrassment on the innocent Jeanette .
`` Come away , '' she whisper crossly .
`` Ca n't you see we 're not want here ? ''
She draw Jeanette out , leave Thyra rock Damaris in her arm , and croon over her like a mother over her child .
When December have grow old Damaris be still with Thyra .
It be understood that she be to remain there for the winter , at least .
Thyra could not bear her to be out of her sight .
They talk constantly about Chester ; Thyra confess all her anger and hatred .
Damaris have forgive her ; but Thyra could never forgive herself .
She be greatly change , and have grow very gentle and tender .
She even send for August Vorst and beg him to pardon her for the way she have speak to him .
Winter come late that year , and the season be a very open one .
There be no snow on the ground and , a month after Joe Raymond 's boat have be cast up on the Blue Point sand shore , Thyra , wander about in her garden , find some pansy bloom under their tangled leaf .
She be pick them for Damaris when she hear a buggy rumble over the bridge and drive up the White lane , hidden from her sight by the alder and fir .
A few minute later Carl and Cynthia come hastily across their yard under the huge balm-of-gileads .
Carl 's face be flush , and his big body quiver with excitement .
Cynthia run behind him , with tear roll down her face .
Thyra felt herself grow sick with fear .
Had anything happen to Damaris ?
A glimpse of the girl , sew by an upper window of the house , reassure her .
`` Oh , Thyra , Thyra ! ''
gasp Cynthia .
`` Can you stand some good news , Thyra ? ''
ask Carl , in a trembling voice .
`` Very , very good news ! ''
Thyra look wildly from one to the other .
`` There 's but one thing you would dare to call good news to me , '' she cry .
`` Is it about -- about -- '' `` Chester !
Yes , it 's about Chester !
Thyra , he be alive -- he 's safe -- he and Joe , both of them , thank God !
Cynthia , catch her ! ''
`` No , I be not go to faint , '' say Thyra , steady herself by Cynthia 's shoulder .
`` My son alive !
How do you hear ?
How do it happen ?
Where have he be ? ''
`` I hear it down at the harbor , Thyra .
Mike McCready 's vessel , the Nora Lee , be just in from the Magdalens .
Ches and Joe get capsize the night of the storm , but they hang on to their boat somehow , and at daybreak they be pick up by the Nora Lee , bound for Quebec .
But she be damage by the storm and blow clear out of her course .
Had to put into the Magdalens for repair , and have be there ever since .
The cable to the island be out of order , and no vessel call there this time of year for mail .
If it have n't be an extra open season the Nora Lee would n't have get away , but would have have to stay there till spring .
You never saw such rejoicing a there be this morning at the harbor , when the Nora Lee come in , fly flag at the mast head . ''
`` And Chester -- where be he ? ''
demand Thyra .
Carl and Cynthia look at each other .
`` Well , Thyra , '' say the latter , `` the fact be , he 's over there in our yard this bless minute .
Carl bring him home from the harbor , but I would n't let him come over until we have prepare you for it .
He 's wait for you there . ''
Thyra make a quick step in the direction of the gate .
Then she turn , with a little of the glow die out of her face .
`` No , there 's one have a good right to go to him first .
I can atone to him -- thank God , I can atone to him ! ''
She go into the house and call Damaris .
As the girl come down the stair Thyra hold out her hand with a wonderful light of joy and renunciation on her face .
`` Damaris , '' she say , `` Chester have come back to u -- the sea have give him back to u .
He be over at Carl White 's house .
Go to him , my daughter , and bring him to me ! ''
XI .
THE EDUCATION OF BETTY When Sara Currie marry Jack Churchill I be broken-hearted ... or believe myself to be so , which , in a boy of twenty-two , amount to pretty much the same thing .
Not that I take the world into my confidence ; that be never the Douglas way , and I hold myself in honor bound to live up to the family tradition .
I think , then , that nobody but Sara know ; but I dare say , now , that Jack know it also , for I do n't think Sara could have help tell him .
If he do know , however , he do not let me see that he do , and never insult me by any implied sympathy ; on the contrary , he ask me to be his best man .
Jack be always a thoroughbred .
I be best man .
Jack and I have always be bosom friend , and , although I have lose my sweetheart , I do not intend to lose my friend into the bargain .
Sara have make a wise choice , for Jack be twice the man I be ; he have have to work for his living , which perhaps account for it .
So I dance at Sara 's wedding a if my heart be as light a my heel ; but , after she and Jack have settle down at Glenby I close The Maples and go abroad ... be , a I have hint , one of those unfortunate mortal who need consult nothing but their own whim in the matter of time and money .
I stay away for ten year , during which The Maples be give over to moth and rust , while I enjoy life elsewhere .
I do enjoy it hugely , but always under protest , for I felt that a broken-hearted man ought not to enjoy himself a I do .
It jar on my sense of fitness , and I try to moderate my zest , and think more of the past than I do .
It be no use ; the present insist on be intrusive and pleasant ; a for the future ... well , there be no future .
Then Jack Churchill , poor fellow , die .
A year after his death , I go home and again ask Sara to marry me , a in duty bound .
Sara again decline , allege that her heart be bury in Jack 's grave , or word to that effect .
I find that it do not much matter ... of course , at thirty-two one do not take these thing to heart a at twenty-two .
I have enough to occupy me in get The Maples into work order , and begin to educate Betty .
Betty be Sara 's ten year-old daughter , and she have be thoroughly spoil .
That be to say , she have be allow her own way in everything and , have inherit her father 's outdoor taste , have simply run wild .
She be a thorough tomboy , a thin , scrawny little thing with a trace of Sara 's beauty .
Betty take after her father 's dark , tall race and , on the occasion of my first introduction to her , seem to be all leg and neck .
There be point about her , though , which I consider promising .
She have fine , almond-shaped , hazel eye , the small and most shapely hand and foot I ever saw , and two enormous braid of thick , nut-brown hair .
For Jack 's sake I decide to bring his daughter up properly .
Sara could n't do it , and do n't try .
I saw that , if somebody do n't take Betty in hand , wisely and firmly , she would certainly be ruin .
There seem to be nobody except myself at all interested in the matter , so I determine to see what an old bachelor could do a regard bring up a girl in the way she should go .
I might have be her father ; a it be , her father have be my best friend .
Who have a good right to watch over his daughter ?
I determine to be a father to Betty , and do all for her that the most devoted parent could do .
It be , self-evidently , my duty .
I tell Sara I be go to take Betty in hand .
Sara sigh one of the plaintive little sigh which I have once think so charming , but now , to my surprise , find faintly irritate , and say that she would be very much obliged if I would .
`` I feel that I be not able to cope with the problem of Betty 's education , Stephen , '' she admit , `` Betty be a strange child ... all Churchill .
Her poor father indulge her in everything , and she have a will of her own , I assure you .
I have really no control over her , whatever .
She do a she please , and be ruin her complexion by run and gallop out of door the whole time .
Not that she have much complexion to start with .
The Churchills never have , you know . ''
... Sara cast a complacent glance at her delicately tinted reflection in the mirror ... `` I try to make Betty wear a sunbonnet this summer , but I might as well have talk to the wind . ''
A vision of Betty in a sunbonnet present itself to my mind , and afford me so much amusement that I be grateful to Sara for have furnish it .
I reward her with a compliment .
`` It be to be regret that Betty have not inherit her mother 's charming color , '' I say , `` but we must do the best we can for her under her limitation .
She may have improve vastly by the time she have grow up .
And , at least , we must make a lady of her ; she be a most alarming tomboy at present , but there be good material to work upon ... there must be , in the Churchill and Currie blend .
But even the best material may be spoil by unwise handling .
I think I can promise you that I will not spoil it .
I feel that Betty be my vocation ; and I shall set myself up a a rival of Wordsworth 's ` nature , ' of whose method I have always have a decided distrust , in spite of his insidious verse . ''
Sara do not understand me in the least ; but , then , she do not pretend to .
`` I confide Betty 's education entirely to you , Stephen , '' she say , with another plaintive sigh .
`` I feel sure I could not put it into good hand .
You have always be a person who could be thoroughly depend on . ''
Well , that be something by way of reward for a life-long devotion .
I felt that I be satisfy with my position a unofficial advisor-in-chief to Sara and self-appointed guardian of Betty .
I also felt that , for the furtherance of the cause I have take to heart , it be a good thing that Sara have again refuse to marry me .
I have a sixth sense which inform me that a staid old family friend might succeed with Betty where a stepfather would have signally fail .
Betty 's loyalty to her father 's memory be passionate , and vehement ; she would view his supplanter with resentment and distrust ; but his old familiar comrade be a person to be take to her heart .
Fortunately for the success of my enterprise , Betty like me .
She tell me this with the same engaging candor she would have use in inform me that she hat me , if she have happen to take a bias in that direction , say frankly : `` You be one of the very nice old folk I know , Stephen .
Yes , you be a rip good fellow ! ''
This make my task a comparatively easy one ; I sometimes shudder to think what it might have be if Betty have not think I be a `` ripping good fellow . ''
I should have stick to it , because that be my way ; but Betty would have make my life a misery to me .
She have startle capacity for torment people when she choose to exert them ; I certainly should not have like to be number among Betty 's foe .
I ride over to Glenby the next morning after my paternal interview with Sara , intend to have a frank talk with Betty and lay the foundation of a good understanding on both side .
Betty be a sharp child , with a disconcert knack of see straight through grindstone ; she would certainly perceive and probably resent any underhanded management .
I think it best to tell her plainly that I be go to look after her .
When , however , I encounter Betty , tear madly down the beech avenue with a couple of dog , her loosened hair stream behind her like a banner of independence , and have lift her , hatless and breathless , up before me on my mare , I find that Sara have save me the trouble of an explanation .
`` Mother say you be go to take charge of my education , Stephen , '' say Betty , as soon a she could speak .
`` I 'm glad , because I think that , for an old person , you have a good deal of sense .
I suppose my education have to be see to , some time or other , and I 'd rather you 'd do it than anybody else I know . ''
`` Thank you , Betty , '' I say gravely .
`` I hope I shall deserve your good opinion of my sense .
I shall expect you to do a I tell you , and be guide by my advice in everything . ''
`` Yes , I will , '' say Betty , `` because I 'm sure you wo n't tell me to do anything I 'd really hate to do .
You wo n't shut me up in a room and make me sew , will you ?
Because I wo n't do it . ''
I assure her I would not .
`` Nor send me to a boarding-school , '' pursue Betty .
`` Mother 's always threaten to send me to one .
I suppose she would have do it before this , only she know I 'd run away .
You wo n't send me to a boarding-school , will you , Stephen ?
Because I wo n't go . ''
`` No , '' I say obligingly .
`` I wo n't .
I should never dream of cooping a wild little thing , like you , up in a boarding-school .
You 'd fret your heart out like a caged skylark . ''
`` I know you and I be go to get along together splendidly , Stephen , '' say Betty , rub her brown cheek chummily against my shoulder .
`` You be so good at understand .
Very few people be .
Even dad darling do n't understand .
He let me do just a I want to , just because I want to , not because he really understand that I could n't be tame and play with doll .
I hate doll !
Real live baby be jolly ; but dog and horse be ever so much nicer than doll . ''
`` But you must have lesson , Betty .
I shall select your teacher and superintend your study , and I shall expect you to do me credit along that line , as well a along all others . ''
`` I 'll try , honest and true , Stephen , '' declare Betty .
And she keep her word .
At first I look upon Betty 's education a a duty ; in a very short time it have become a pleasure ... the deep and most abiding interest of my life .
As I have premise , Betty be good material , and respond to my training with gratify plasticity .
Day by day , week by week , month by month , her character and temperament unfold naturally under my watchful eye .
It be like behold the gradual development of some rare flower in one 's garden .
A little checking and pruning here , a careful training of shoot and tendril there , and , lo , the reward of grace and symmetry !
Betty grow up a I would have wish Jack Churchill 's girl to grow -- spirited and proud , with the fine spirit and gracious pride of pure womanhood , loyal and loving , with the loyalty and love of a frank and unspoiled nature ; true to her heart 's core , hat falsehood and sham -- a crystal-clear a mirror of maidenhood a ever man look into and saw himself reflect back in such a halo a make him ashamed of not be more worthy of it .
Betty be kind enough to say that I have teach her everything she know .
But what have she not teach me ?
If there be a debt between u , it be on my side .
Sara be fairly well satisfied .
It be not my fault that Betty be not well look , she say .
I have certainly do everything for her mind and character that could be do .
Sara 's manner imply that these unimportant detail do not count for much , balance against the lack of a pink-and-white skin and dimpled elbow ; but she be generous enough not to blame me .
`` When Betty be twenty-five , '' I say patiently -- I have grow use to speak patiently to Sara -- `` she will be a magnificent woman -- far handsome than you ever be , Sara , in your pinkest and white prime .
Where be your eye , my dear lady , that you ca n't see the promise of loveliness in Betty ? ''
`` Betty be seventeen , and she be a lanky and brown a ever she be , '' sigh Sara .
`` When I be seventeen I be the belle of the county and have have five proposal .
I do n't believe the thought of a lover have ever enter Betty 's head . ''
`` I hope not , '' I say shortly .
Somehow , I do not like the suggestion .
`` Betty be a child yet .
For pity 's sake , Sara , do n't go put nonsensical idea into her head . ''
`` I 'm afraid I ca n't , '' mourn Sara , a if it be something to be regret .
`` You have fill it too full of book and thing like that .
I 've every confidence in your judgment , Stephen -- and really you 've do wonder with Betty .
But do n't you think you 've make her rather too clever ?
Men do n't like woman who be too clever .
Her poor father , now -- he always say that a woman who like book well than beau be an unnatural creature . ''
I do n't believe Jack have ever say anything so foolish .
Sara imagine thing .
But I resent the aspersion of blue-stockingness cast on Betty .
`` When the time come for Betty to be interested in beau , '' I say severely , `` she will probably give them all due attention .
Just at present her head be a great deal well fill with book than with silly premature fancy and sentimentality .
I 'm a critical old fellow -- but I 'm satisfied with Betty , Sara -- perfectly satisfy . ''
Sara sigh .
`` Oh , I dare say she be all right , Stephen .
And I 'm really grateful to you .
I 'm sure I could have do nothing at all with her .
It 's not your fault , of course , -- but I ca n't help wish she be a little more like other girl . ''
I gallop away from Glenby in a rage .
What a blessing Sara have not marry me in my absurd youth !
She would have drive me wild with her sigh and her obtuseness and her everlasting pink-and-whiteness .
But there -- there -- there -- gently !
She be a sweet , good-hearted little woman ; she have make Jack happy ; and she have contrive , heaven only know how , to bring a rare creature like Betty into the world .
For that , much might be forgive her .
By the time I reach The Maples and have fling myself down in an old , kinky , comfortable chair in my library I have forgive her and be even pay her the compliment of think seriously over what she have say .
Was Betty really unlike other girl ?
That be to say , unlike them in any respect wherein she should resemble them ?
I do not wish this ; although I be a crusty old bachelor I approve of girl , hold them the sweet thing the good God have make .
I want Betty to have her full complement of girlhood in all it best and high manifestation .
Was there anything lacking ?
I observe Betty very closely during the next week or so , rid over to Glenby every day and rid back at night , meditate upon my observation .
Eventually I conclude to do what I have never think myself in the least likely to do .
I would send Betty to a boarding-school for a year .
It be necessary that she should learn how to live with other girl .
I go over to Glenby the next day and find Betty under the beech on the lawn , just back from a canter .
She be sit on the dappled mare I have give her on her last birthday , and be laugh at the antic of her rejoice dog around her .
I look at her with much pleasure ; it gladden me to see how much , nay , how totally a child she still be , despite her Churchill height .
Her hair , under her velvet cap , still hang over her shoulder in the same thick plait ; her face have the firm leanness of early youth , but it curve be very fine and delicate .
The brown skin , that worry Sara so , be flush through with dusky color from her gallop ; her long , dark eye be fill with the beautiful unconsciousness of childhood .
More than all , the soul in her be still the soul of a child .
I find myself wish that it could always remain so .
But I know it could not ; the woman must blossom out some day ; it be my duty to see that the flower fulfil the promise of the bud .
When I tell Betty that she must go away to a school for a year , she shrug , frown and consent .
Betty have learn that she must consent to what I decree , even when my decree be oppose to her liking , a she have once fondly believe they never would be .
But Betty have acquire confidence in me to the beautiful extent of acquiesce in everything I command .
`` I 'll go , of course , since you wish it , Stephen , '' she say .
`` But why do you want me to go ?
You must have a reason -- you always have a reason for anything you do .
What be it ? ''
`` That be for you to find out , Betty , '' I say .
`` By the time you come back you will have discover it , I think .
If not , it will not have prove itself a good reason and shall be forget . ''
When Betty go away I bid her good-by without burden her with any useless word of advice .
`` Write to me every week , and remember that you be Betty Churchill , '' I say .
Betty be stand on the step above , among her dog .
She come down a step and put her arm about my neck .
`` I 'll remember that you be my friend and that I must live up to you , '' she say .
`` Good-by , Stephen . ''
She kiss me two or three time -- good , hearty smack !
do I not say she be still a child ?
-- and stand wave her hand to me a I ride away .
I look back at the end of the avenue and saw her standing there , short-skirted and hatless , front the lower sun with those fearless eye of hers .
So I look my last on the child Betty .
That be a lonely year .
My occupation be go and I begin to fear that I have outlive my usefulness .
Life seem flat , stale , and unprofitable .
Betty 's weekly letter be all that lend it any savor .
They be spicy and piquant enough .
Betty be discover to have unsuspected talent in the epistolary line .
At first she be dolefully homesick , and beg me to let her come home .
When I refuse -- it be amazingly hard to refuse -- she sulk through three letter , then cheer up and begin to enjoy herself .
But it be nearly the end of the year when she write : `` I 've find out why you send me here , Stephen -- and I 'm glad you do . ''
I have to be away from home on unavoidable business the day Betty return to Glenby .
But the next afternoon I go over .
I find Betty out and Sara in .
The latter be beam .
Betty be so much improve , she declare delightedly .
I would hardly know `` the dear child . ''
This alarm me terribly .
What on earth have they do to Betty ?
I find that she have go up to the pineland for a walk , and thither I betook myself speedily .
When I saw her come down a long , golden-brown alley I step behind a tree to watch her -- I wish to see her , myself unseen .
As she draw near I gaze at her with pride , and admiration and amazement -- and , under it all , a strange , dreadful , heart-sinking , which I could not understand and which I have never in all my life experience before -- no , not even when Sara have refuse me .
Betty be a woman !
Not by virtue of the simple white dress that clung to her tall , slender figure , reveal line of exquisite grace and litheness ; not by virtue of the glossy mass of dark brown hair heap high on her head and hold there in wonderful shining coil ; not by virtue of added softness of curve and daintiness of outline ; not because of all these , but because of the dream and wonder and seek in her eye .
She be a woman , look , all unconscious of her quest , for love .
The understanding of the change in her come home to me with a shock that must have leave me , I think , something white about the lip .
I be glad .
She be what I have wish her to become .
But I want the child Betty back ; this womanly Betty seem far away from me .
I step out into the path and she saw me , with a brightening of her whole face .
She do not rush forward and fling herself into my arm a she would have do a year ago ; but she come towards me swiftly , hold out her hand .
I have think her slightly pale when I have first see her ; but now I conclude I have be mistake , for there be a wonderful sunrise of color in her face .
I take her hand -- there be no kiss this time .
`` Welcome home , Betty , '' I say .
`` Oh , Stephen , it be so good to be back , '' she breathe , her eye shin .
She do not say it be good to see me again , a I have hop she would do .
Indeed , after the first minute of greeting , she seem a trifle cool and distant .
We walk for an hour in the pine wood and talk .
Betty be brilliant , witty , self-possessed , altogether charm .
I think her perfect and yet my heart ache .
What a glorious young thing she be , in that splendid youth of hers !
What a prize for some lucky man -- confound the obtrusive thought !
No doubt we should soon be overrun at Glenby with lover .
I should stumble over some forlorn youth at every step !
Well , what of it ?
Betty would marry , of course .
It would be my duty to see that she get a good husband , worthy of her a men go .
I think I prefer the old duty of superintend her study .
But there , it be all the same thing -- merely a post-graduate course in applied knowledge .
When she begin to learn life 's great lesson of love , I , the tried and true old family friend and mentor , must be on hand to see that the teacher be what I would have him be , even a I have formerly select her instructor in French and botany .
Then , and not until then , would Betty 's education be complete .
I ride home very soberly .
When I reach The Maples I do what I have not do for year ... look critically at myself in the mirror .
The realization that I have grow older come home to me with a new and unpleasant force .
There be mark line on my lean face , and silver glint in the dark hair over my temple .
When Betty be ten she have think me `` an old person . ''
Now , at eighteen , she probably think me a veritable ancient of day .
Pshaw , what do it matter ?
And yet ... I think of her a I have see her , stand under the pine , and something cold and painful laid it hand on my heart .
My premonition a to lover prove correct .
Glenby be soon infest with them .
Heaven know where they all come from .
I have not suppose there be a quarter a many young men in the whole county ; but there they be .
Sara be in the seventh heaven of delight .
Was not Betty at last a belle ?
As for the proposal ... well , Betty never count her scalp in public ; but every once in a while a visit youth drop out and be see no more at Glenby .
One could guess what that meant .
Betty apparently enjoy all this .
I grieve to say that she be a bit of a coquette .
I try to cure her of this serious defect , but for once I find that I have undertake something I could not accomplish .
In vain I lecture , Betty only laugh ; in vain I gravely rebuke , Betty only flirt more vivaciously than before .
Men might come and men might go , but Betty go on forever .
I endure this sort of thing for a year and then I decide that it be time to interfere seriously .
I must find a husband for Betty ... my fatherly duty would not be fulfil until I have ... nor , indeed , my duty to society .
She be not a safe person to have run at large .
None of the men who haunt Glenby be good enough for her .
I decide that my nephew , Frank , would do very well .
He be a capital young fellow , handsome , clean-souled , and whole-hearted .
From a worldly point of view he be what Sara would have term an excellent match ; he have money , social standing and a rise reputation a a clever young lawyer .
Yes , he should have Betty , confound him !
They have never meet .
I set the wheel go at once .
The sooner all the fuss be over the good .
I hat fuss and there be bound to be a good deal of it .
But I go about the business like an accomplished matchmaker .
I invite Frank to visit The Maples and , before he come , I talk much ... but not too much ... of him to Betty , mingle judicious praise and still more judicious blame together .
Women never like a paragon .
Betty hear me with more gravity than she usually accord to my dissertation on young men .
She even condescend to ask several question about him .
This I think a good sign .
To Frank I have say not a word about Betty ; when he come to The Maples I take him over to Glenby and , come upon Betty wander about among the beech in the sunset , I introduce him without any warning .
He would have be more than mortal if he have not fall in love with her upon the spot .
It be not in the heart of man to resist her ... that dainty , allure bit of womanhood .
She be all in white , with flower in her hair , and , for a moment , I could have murder Frank or any other man who dare to commit the sacrilege of love her .
Then I pull myself together and leave them alone .
I might have go in and talk to Sara ... two old folk gently review their youth while the young folk court outside ... but I do not .
I prowl about the pine wood , and try to forget how blithe and handsome that curly-headed boy , Frank , be , and what a flash have spring into his eye when he have see Betty .
Well , what of it ?
Was not that what I have bring him there for ?
And be I not please at the success of my scheme ?
Certainly I be !
Delighted !
Next day Frank go to Glenby without even make the poor pretense of ask me to accompany him .
I spend the time of his absence oversee the construction of a new greenhouse I be have build .
I be conscientious in my supervision ; but I felt no interest in it .
The place be intend for rose , and rose make me think of the pale yellow one Betty have wear at her breast one even the week before , when , all lover be unaccountably absent , we have wander together under the pine and talk a in the old day before her young womanhood and my gray hair have rise up to divide u .
She have drop a rise on the brown floor , and I have sneak back , after I have leave her the house , to get it , before I go home .
I have it now in my pocket-book .
Confound it , might n't a future uncle cherish a family affection for his prospective niece ?
Frank 's wooing seem to prosper .
The other young spark , who have haunt Glenby , fade away after his advent .
Betty treat him with most encouraging sweetness ; Sara smile on him ; I stand in the background , like a benevolent god of the machine , and flatter myself that I pull the string .
At the end of a month something go wrong .
Frank come home from Glenby one day in the dump , and mop for two whole day .
I ride down myself on the third .
I have not go much to Glenby that month ; but , if there be trouble Bettyward , it be my duty to make smooth the rough place .
As usual , I find Betty in the pineland .
I think she look rather pale and dull ... fret about Frank no doubt .
She brighten up when she saw me , evidently expect that I have come to straighten matter out ; but she pretend to be haughty and indifferent .
`` I be glad you have n't forget u altogether , Stephen , '' she say coolly .
`` You have n't be down for a week . ''
`` I 'm flattered that you notice it , '' I say , sit down on a fall tree and look up at her a she stand , tall and lithe , against an old pine , with her eye avert .
`` I should n't have suppose you 'd want an old fogy like myself poke about and spoil the idyllic moment of love 's young dream . ''
`` Why do you always speak of yourself a old ? ''
say Betty , crossly , ignore my reference to Frank .
`` Because I be old , my dear .
Witness these gray hair . ''
I push up my hat to show them the more recklessly .
Betty barely glance at them .
`` You have just enough to give you a distinguish look , '' she say , `` and you be only forty .
A man be in his prime at forty .
He never have any sense until he be forty -- and sometimes he do n't seem to have any even then , '' she conclude impertinently .
My heart beat .
Did Betty suspect ?
Was that last sentence mean to inform me that she be aware of my secret folly , and laugh at it ?
`` I come over to see what have go wrong between you and Frank , '' I say gravely .
Betty bite her lip .
`` Nothing , '' she say .
`` Betty , '' I say reproachfully , `` I bring you up ... or endeavor to bring you up ... to speak the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth .
Do n't tell me I have fail .
I 'll give you another chance .
Have you quarrel with Frank ? ''
`` No , '' say the maddening Betty , `` HE quarrel with me .
He go away in a temper and I do not care if he never come back ! ''
I shake my head .
`` This wo n't do , Betty .
As your old family friend I still claim the right to scold you until you have a husband to do the scolding .
You must n't torment Frank .
He be too fine a fellow .
You must marry him , Betty . ''
`` Must I ? ''
say Betty , a dusky red flame out on her cheek .
She turn her eye on me in a most disconcerting fashion .
`` Do YOU wish me to marry Frank , Stephen ? ''
Betty have a wretched habit of emphasize pronoun in a fashion calculate to rattle anybody .
`` Yes , I do wish it , because I think it will be best for you , '' I reply , without look at her .
`` You must marry some time , Betty , and Frank be the only man I know to whom I could trust you .
As your guardian , I have an interest in see you well and wisely settle for life .
You have always take my advice and obeyed my wish ; and you 've always find my way the best , in the long run , have n't you , Betty ?
You wo n't prove rebellious now , I 'm sure .
You know quite well that I be advise you for your own good .
Frank be a splendid young fellow , who love you with all his heart .
Marry him , Betty .
Mind , I do n't COMMAND .
I have no right to do that , and you be too old to be order about , if I have .
But I wish and advise it .
Is n't that enough , Betty ? ''
I have be look away from her all the time I be talk , gaze determinedly down a sunlit vista of pine .
Every word I say seem to tear my heart , and come from my lip stain with life-blood .
Yes , Betty should marry Frank !
But , good God , what would become of me !
Betty leave her station under the pine tree , and walk around me until she get right in front of my face .
I could n't help look at her , for if I move my eye she move too .
There be nothing meek or submissive about her ; her head be hold high , her eye be blaze , and her cheek be crimson .
But her word be meek enough .
`` I will marry Frank if you wish it , Stephen , '' she say .
`` You be my friend .
I have never cross your wish , and , a you say , I have never regret be guide by them .
I will do exactly a you wish in this case also , I promise you that .
But , in so solemn a question , I must be very certain what you DO wish .
There must be no doubt in my mind or heart .
Look me squarely in the eye , Stephen -- a you have n't do once to-day , no , nor once since I come home from school -- and , so look , tell me that you wish me to marry Frank Douglas and I will do it !
DO you , Stephen ? ''
I have to look her in the eye , since nothing else would do her ; and , a I do so , all the might of manhood in me rise up in hot revolt against the lie I would have tell her .
That unfaltering , impel gaze of hers draw the truth from my lip in spite of myself .
`` No , I do n't wish you to marry Frank Douglas , a thousand time no ! ''
I say passionately .
`` I do n't wish you to marry any man on earth but myself .
I love you -- I love you , Betty .
You be dearer to me than life -- dearer to me than my own happiness .
It be your happiness I think of -- and so I ask you to marry Frank because I believe he would make you a happy woman .
That be all ! ''
Betty 's defiance go from her like a flame blow out .
She turn away and droop her proud head .
`` It could not have make me a happy woman to marry one man , love another , '' she say , in a whisper .
I get up and go over to her .
`` Betty , whom do you love ? ''
I ask , also in a whisper .
`` You , '' she murmur meekly -- oh , so meekly , my proud little girl !
`` Betty , '' I say brokenly , `` I 'm old -- too old for you -- I 'm more than twenty year your senior -- I 'm -- '' `` Oh ! ''
Betty wheel around on me and stamp her foot .
`` Do n't mention your age to me again .
I do n't care if you 're as old a Methuselah .
But I 'm not go to coax you to marry me , sir !
If you wo n't , I 'll never marry anybody -- I 'll live and die an old maid .
You can please yourself , of course ! ''
She turn away , half-laughing , half-crying ; but I catch her in my arm and crush her sweet lip against mine .
`` Betty , I 'm the happiest man in the world -- and I be the most miserable when I come here . ''
`` You deserve to be , '' say Betty cruelly .
`` I 'm glad you be .
Any man as stupid a you deserve to be unhappy .
What do you think I felt like , love you with all my heart , and see you simply throw me at another man 's head .
Why , I 've always love you , Stephen ; but I do n't know it until I go to that detestable school .
Then I find out -- and I think that be why you have send me .
But , when I come home , you almost break my heart .
That be why I flirt so with all those poor , nice boy -- I want to hurt you but I never think I succeed .
You just go on be FATHERLY .
Then , when you bring Frank here , I almost give up hope ; and I try to make up my mind to marry him ; I should have do it if you have insist .
But I have to have one more try for happiness first .
I have just one little hope to inspire me with sufficient boldness .
I saw you , that night , when you come back here and pick up my rise !
I have come back , myself , to be alone and unhappy . ''
`` It be the most wonderful thing that ever happen -- that you should love me , '' I say .
`` It 's not -- I could n't help it , '' say Betty , nestle her brown head on my shoulder .
`` You teach me everything else , Stephen , so nobody but you could teach me how to love .
You 've make a thorough thing of educate me . ''
`` When will you marry me , Betty ? ''
I ask .
`` As soon a I can fully forgive you for try to make me marry somebody else , '' say Betty .
It be rather hard line on Frank , when you come to think of it .
But , such be the selfishness of human nature that we do n't think much about Frank .
The young fellow behave like the Douglas he be .
Went a little white about the lip when I tell him , wish me all happiness , and go quietly away , `` gentleman unafraid . ''
He have since marry and be , I understand , very happy .
Not as happy a I be , of course ; that be impossible , because there be only one Betty in the world , and she be my wife .
XII .
IN HER SELFLESS MOOD The raw wind of an early May evening be puff in and out the curtain of the room where Naomi Holland lay die .
The air be moist and chill , but the sick woman would not have the window close .
`` I ca n't get my breath if you shut everything up so tight , '' she say .
`` Whatever come , I ai n't go to be smother to death , Car ` line Holland . ''
Outside of the window grow a cherry tree , powder with moist bud with the promise of blossom she would not live to see .
Between it bough she saw a crystal cup of sky over hill that be grow dim and purple .
The outside air be full of sweet , wholesome springtime sound that drift in fitfully .
There be voice and whistle in the barnyard , and now and then faint laughter .
A bird alight for a moment on a cherry bough , and twitter restlessly .
Naomi know that white mist be hover in the silent hollow , that the maple at the gate wear a misty blossom red , and that violet star be shin bluely on the brooklands .
The room be a small , plain one .
The floor be bare , save for a couple of braided rug , the plaster discolor , the wall dingy and glaring .
There have never be much beauty in Naomi Holland 's environment , and , now that she be die , there be even less .
At the open window a boy of about ten year be lean out over the sill and whistling .
He be tall for his age , and beautiful -- the hair a rich auburn with a glisten curl in it , skin very white and warm-tinted , eye small and of a greenish blue , with dilate pupil and long lash .
He have a weak chin , and a full , sullen mouth .
The bed be in the corner farthest from the window ; on it the sick woman , in spite of the pain that be her portion continually , be lie a quiet and motionless a she have do ever since she have lie down upon it for the last time .
Naomi Holland never complain ; when the agony be at it bad , she shut her teeth more firmly over her bloodless lip , and her great black eye glare at the blank wall before in a way that give her attendant what they call `` the creep , '' but no word or moan escape her .
Between the paroxysm she keep up her keen interest in the life that go on about her .
Nothing escape her sharp , alert eye and ear .
This evening she lay spend on the crumpled pillow ; she have have a bad spell in the afternoon and it have leave her very weak .
In the dim light her extremely long face look corpse-like already .
Her black hair lay in a heavy braid over the pillow and down the counterpane .
It be all that be leave of her beauty , and she take a fierce joy in it .
Those long , glistening , sinuous tress must be comb and braid every day , no matter what come .
A girl of fourteen be curl up on a chair at the head of the bed , with her head rest on the pillow .
The boy at the window be her half-brother ; but , between Christopher Holland and Eunice Carr , not the slight resemblance exist .
Presently the sibilant silence be break by a low , half-strangled sob .
The sick woman , who have be watch a white evening star through the cherry bough , turn impatiently at the sound .
`` I wish you 'd get over that , Eunice , '' she say sharply .
`` I do n't want any one cry over me until I 'm dead ; and then you 'll have plenty else to do , most likely .
If it be n't for Christopher I would n't be anyways unwilling to die .
When one have have such a life a I 've have , there be n't much in death to be afraid of .
Only , a body would like to go right off , and not die by inch , like this .
` Tai n't fair ! ''
She snap out the last sentence a if address some unseen , tyrannical presence ; her voice , at least , have not weaken , but be a clear and incisive a ever .
The boy at the window stop whistle , and the girl silently wipe her eye on her fade gingham apron .
Naomi draw her own hair over her lip , and kiss it .
`` You 'll never have hair like that , Eunice , '' she say .
`` It do seem most too pretty to bury , do n't it ?
Mind you see that it be fix nice when I 'm lay out .
Comb it right up on my head and braid it there . ''
A sound , such a might be wring from a suffering animal , come from the girl , but at the same moment the door open and a woman enter .
`` Chris , '' she say sharply , `` you get right off for the cow , you lazy little scamp !
You know right well you have to go for them , and here you 've be idle , and me look high and low for you .
Make haste now ; it 's ridiculous late . ''
The boy pull in his head and scowl at his aunt , but he dare not disobey , and go out slowly with a sulky mutter .
His aunt subdue a movement , that might have develop into a sound box on his ear , with a rather frightened glance at the bed .
Naomi Holland be spend and die , but her temper be still a thing to hold in dread , and her sister-in-law do not choose to rouse it by slap Christopher .
To her and her co-nurse the spasm of rage , which the sick woman sometimes have , seem to partake of the nature of devil possession .
The last one , only three day before , have be provoke by Christopher 's complaint of some real or fancy ill-treatment from his aunt , and the latter have no mind to bring on another .
She go over to the bed , and straighten the clothes .
`` Sarah and I be go out to milk , Naomi , Eunice will stay with you .
She can run for u if you feel another spell come on . ''
Naomi Holland look up at her sister-in-law with something like malicious enjoyment .
`` I ai n't go to have any more spell , Car ` line Anne .
I 'm go to die to-night .
But you need n't hurry milk for that , at all .
I 'll take my time . ''
She like to see the alarm that come over the other woman 's face .
It be richly worth while to scare Caroline Holland like that .
`` Are you feeling bad , Naomi ? ''
ask the latter shakily .
`` If you be I 'll send for Charles to go for the doctor . ''
`` No , you wo n't .
What good can the doctor do me ?
I do n't want either his or Charles ' permission to die .
You can go and milk at your ease .
I wo n't die till you 're do -- I wo n't deprive you of the pleasure of see me . ''
Mrs. Holland shut her lip and go out of the room with a martyr-like expression .
In some way Naomi Holland be not an exact patient , but she take her satisfaction out in the biting , malicious speech she never fail to make .
Even on her death-bed her hostility to her sister-in-law have to find vent .
Outside , at the step , Sarah Spencer be wait , with the milk pails over her arm .
Sarah Spencer have no fix abide place , but be always to be find where there be illness .
Her experience , and an utter lack of nerve , make her a good nurse .
She be a tall , homely woman with iron gray hair and a lined face .
Beside her , the trim little Caroline Anne , with her light step and round , apple-red face , look almost girlish .
The two woman walk to the barnyard , discuss Naomi in undertone a they go .
The house they have leave behind grow very still .
In Naomi Holland 's room the shadow be gather .
Eunice timidly bend over her mother .
`` Ma , do you want the light lit ? ''
`` No , I 'm watch that star just below the big cherry bough .
I 'll see it set behind the hill .
I 've see it there , off and on , for twelve year , and now I 'm take a good-by look at it .
I want you to keep still , too .
I 've get a few thing to think over , and I do n't want to be disturb . ''
The girl lift herself about noiselessly and lock her hand over the bed-post .
Then she lay her face down on them , bite at them silently until the mark of her teeth show white against their red roughness .
Naomi Holland do not notice her .
She be look steadfastly at the great , pearl-like sparkle in the faint-hued sky .
When it finally disappear from her vision she strike her long , thin hand together twice , and a terrible expression come over her face for a moment .
But , when she speak , her voice be quite calm .
`` You can light the candle now , Eunice .
Put it up on the shelf here , where it wo n't shine in my eye .
And then sit down on the foot of the bed where I can see you .
I 've get something to say to you . ''
Eunice obey her noiselessly .
As the pallid light shot up , it reveal the child plainly .
She be thin and ill-formed -- one shoulder be slightly high than the other .
She be dark , like her mother , but her feature be irregular , and her hair fell in straggling , dim lock about her face .
Her eye be a dark brown , and over one be the slanting red scar of a birth mark .
Naomi Holland look at her with the contempt she have never make any pretense of concealing .
The girl be bone of her bone and flesh of her flesh , but she have never love her ; all the mother love in her have be lavish on her son .
When Eunice have place the candle on the shelf and draw down the ugly blue paper blind , shut out the strip of violet sky where a score of glimmer point be now visible , she sit down on the foot of the bed , face her mother .
`` The door be shut , be it , Eunice ? ''
Eunice nod .
`` Because I do n't want Car ` line or any one else peeking and hark to what I 've get to say .
She 's out milk now , and I must make the most of the chance .
Eunice , I 'm go to die , and ... '' `` Ma ! ''
`` There now , no take on !
You know it have to come sometime soon .
I have n't the strength to talk much , so I want you just to be quiet and listen .
I ai n't feel any pain now , so I can think and talk pretty clear .
Are you listen , Eunice ? ''
`` Yes , ma . ''
`` Mind you be .
It 's about Christopher .
It have n't be out of my mind since I lay down here .
I 've fight for a year to live , on his account , and it ai n't any use .
I must just die and leave him , and I do n't know what he 'll do .
It 's dreadful to think of . ''
She pause , and strike her shrunken hand sharply against the table .
`` If he be big and could look out for himself it would n't be so bad .
But he be only a little fellow , and Car ` line hat him .
You 'll both have to live with her until you 're grow up .
She 'll put on him and abuse him .
He 's like his father in some way ; he 's get a temper and he be stubborn .
He 'll never get on with Car ` line .
Now , Eunice , I 'm go to get you to promise to take my place with Christopher when I 'm dead , as far a you can .
You 've get to ; it 's your duty .
But I want you to promise . ''
`` I will , ma , '' whisper the girl solemnly .
`` You have n't much force -- you never have .
If you be smart , you could do a lot for him .
But you 'll have to do your best .
I want you to promise me faithfully that you 'll stand by him and protect him -- that you wo n't let people impose on him ; that you 'll never desert him as long a he need you , no matter what come .
Eunice , promise me this ! ''
In her excitement the sick woman raise herself up in the bed , and clutch the girl 's thin arm .
Her eye be blaze and two scarlet spot glow in her thin cheek .
Eunice 's face be white and tense .
She clasp her hand a one in prayer .
`` Mother , I promise it ! ''
Naomi relax her grip on the girl 's arm and sink back exhaust on the pillow .
A death-like look come over her face a the excitement fade .
`` My mind be easy now .
But if I could only have live another year or two !
And I hate Car ` line -- hate her !
Eunice , do n't you ever let her abuse my boy !
If she do , or if you neglect him , I 'd come back from my grave to you !
As for the property , thing will be pretty straight .
I 've see to that .
There 'll be no squabbling and do Christopher out of his right .
He 's to have the farm as soon a he 's old enough to work it , and he 's to provide for you .
And , Eunice , remember what you 've promise ! ''
Outside , in the thickly gathering dusk , Caroline Holland and Sarah Spencer be at the dairy , strain the milk into creamer , for which Christopher be sullenly pumping water .
The house be far from the road , up to which a long red lane lead ; across the field be the old Holland homestead where Caroline live ; her unmarried sister-in-law , Electa Holland , keep house for her while she wait on Naomi .
It be her night to go home and sleep , but Naomi 's word haunt her , although she believe they be bear of pure `` cantankerousness . ''
`` You 'd better go in and look at her , Sarah , '' she say , a she rinse out the pail .
`` If you think I 'd better stay here to-night , I will .
If the woman be like anybody else a body would know what to do ; but , if she think she could scare u by say she be go to die , she 'd say it . ''
When Sarah go in , the sick room be very quiet .
In her opinion , Naomi be no bad than usual , and she tell Caroline so ; but the latter felt vaguely uneasy and conclude to stay .
Naomi be a cool and defiant a customary .
She make them bring Christopher in to say good-night and have him lift up on the bed to kiss her .
Then she hold him back and look at him admiringly -- at the bright curl and rosy cheek and round , firm limb .
The boy be uncomfortable under her gaze and squirm hastily down .
Her eye follow him greedily , a he go out .
When the door close behind him , she groan .
Sarah Spencer be startle .
She have never hear Naomi Holland groan since she have come to wait on her .
`` Are you feel any bad , Naomi ?
Is the pain come back ? ''
`` No .
Go and tell Car ` line to give Christopher some of that grape jelly on his bread before he go to bed .
She 'll find it in the cupboard under the stair . ''
Presently the house grow very still .
Caroline have drop asleep on the sitting-room lounge , across the hall .
Sarah Spencer nod over her knitting by the table in the sick room .
She have tell Eunice to go to bed , but the child refuse .
She still sit huddle up on the foot of the bed , watch her mother 's face intently .
Naomi appear to sleep .
The candle burn long , and the wick be crown by a little cap of fiery red that seem to watch Eunice like some impish goblin .
The waver light cast grotesque shadow of Sarah Spencer 's head on the wall .
The thin curtain at the window waver to and fro , a if shake by ghostly hand .
At midnight Naomi Holland open her eye .
The child she have never love be the only one to go with her to the brink of the Unseen .
`` Eunice -- remember ! ''
It be the faint whisper .
The soul , pass over the threshold of another life , strain back to it only earthly tie .
A quiver pass over the long , pallid face .
A horrible scream rang through the silent house .
Sarah Spencer spring out of her doze in consternation , and gaze blankly at the shriek child .
Caroline come hurry in with distended eye .
On the bed Naomi Holland lay dead .
In the room where she have die Naomi Holland lay in her coffin .
It be dim and hush ; but , in the rest of the house , the preparation for the funeral be be hurry on .
Through it all Eunice move , calm and silent .
Since her one wild spasm of screaming by her mother 's death-bed she have shed no tear , give no sign of grief .
Perhaps , a her mother have say , she have no time .
There be Christopher to be look after .
The boy 's grief be stormy and uncontrolled .
He have cry until he be utterly exhaust .
It be Eunice who soothe him , coax him to eat , keep him constantly by her .
At night she take him to her own room and watch over him while he sleep .
When the funeral be over the household furniture be pack away or sell .
The house be lock up and the farm rent .
There be nowhere for the child to go , save to their uncle 's .
Caroline Holland do not want them , but , have to take them , she grimly make up her mind to do what she consider her duty by them .
She have five child of her own and between them and Christopher a standing feud have exist from the time he could walk .
She have never like Naomi .
Few people do .
Benjamin Holland have not marry until late in life , and his wife have declare war on his family at sight .
She be a stranger in Avonlea , -- a widow , with a three year-old child .
She make few friend , a some people always assert that she be not in her right mind .
Within a year of her second marriage Christopher be bear , and from the hour of his birth his mother have worship him blindly .
He be her only solace .
For him she toil and pinch and save .
Benjamin Holland have not be `` fore-handed '' when she marry him ; but , when he die , six year after his marriage , he be a well-to-do man .
Naomi make no pretense of mourn for him .
It be an open secret that they have quarrel like the proverbial cat and dog .
Charles Holland and his wife have naturally side with Benjamin , and Naomi fight her battle single-handed .
After her husband 's death , she manage to farm alone , and make it pay .
When the mysterious malady which be to end her life first seize on her she fight against it with all the strength and stubbornness of her strong and stubborn nature .
Her will win for her an added year of life , and then she have to yield .
She taste all the bitterness of death the day on which she lay down on her bed , and saw her enemy come in to rule her house .
But Caroline Holland be not a bad or unkind woman .
True , she do not love Naomi or her child ; but the woman be die and must be look after for the sake of common humanity .
Caroline think she have do well by her sister-in-law .
When the red clay be heap over Naomi 's grave in the Avonlea burying ground , Caroline take Eunice and Christopher home with her .
Christopher do not want to go ; it be Eunice who reconcile him .
He cling to her with an exact affection born of loneliness and grief .
In the day that follow Caroline Holland be oblige to confess to herself that there would have be no do anything with Christopher have it not be for Eunice .
The boy be sullen and obstinate , but his sister have an unfailing influence over him .
In Charles Holland 's household no one be allow to eat the bread of idleness .
His own child be all girl , and Christopher come in handy a a chore boy .
He be make to work -- perhaps too hard .
But Eunice help him , and do half his work for him when nobody know .
When he quarrel with his cousin , she take his part ; whenever possible she take on herself the blame and punishment of his misdeed .
Electa Holland be Charles ' unmarried sister .
She have keep house for Benjamin until he marry ; then Naomi have bundle her out .
Electa have never forgive her for it .
Her hatred pass on to Naomi 's child .
In a hundred petty way she revenge herself on them .
For herself , Eunice bore it patiently ; but it be a different matter when it touch Christopher .
Once Electa box Christopher 's ear .
Eunice , who be knit by the table , stand up .
A resemblance to her mother , never before visible , come out in her face like a brand .
She lift her hand and slap Electa 's cheek deliberately twice , leave a dull red mark where she strike .
`` If you ever strike my brother again , '' she say , slowly and vindictively , `` I will slap your face every time you do .
You have no right to touch him . ''
`` My patience , what a fury ! ''
say Electa .
`` Naomi Holland 'll never be dead as long a you 're alive ! ''
She tell Charles of the affair and Eunice be severely punish .
But Electa never interfere with Christopher again .
All the discordant element in the Holland household could not prevent the child from grow up .
It be a consummation which the harrassed Caroline devoutly wish .
When Christopher Holland be seventeen he be a man grow -- a big , strap fellow .
His childish beauty have coarsen , but he be think handsome by many .
He take charge of his mother 's farm then , and the brother and sister begin their new life together in the long-unoccupied house .
There be few regret on either side when they leave Charles Holland 's roof .
In her secret heart Eunice felt an unspeakable relief .
Christopher have be `` hard to manage , '' a his uncle say , in the last year .
He be get into the habit of keep late hour and doubtful company .
This always provoke an explosion of wrath from Charles Holland , and the conflict between him and his nephew be frequent and bitter .
For four year after their return home Eunice have a hard and anxious life .
Christopher be idle and dissipate .
Most people regard him a a worthless fellow , and his uncle wash his hand of him utterly .
Only Eunice never fail him ; she never reproach or rail ; she work like a slave to keep thing together .
Eventually her patience prevail .
Christopher , to a great extent , reform and work harder .
He be never unkind to Eunice , even in his rage .
It be not in him to appreciate or return her devotion ; but his tolerant acceptance of it be her solace .
When Eunice be twenty-eight , Edward Bell want to marry her .
He be a plain , middle-aged widower with four child ; but , a Caroline do not fail to remind her , Eunice herself be not for every market , and the former do her best to make the match .
She might have succeed have it not be for Christopher .
When he , in spite of Caroline 's skillful management , get an inkling of what be go on , he fly into a true Holland rage .
If Eunice marry and leave him -- he would sell the farm and go to the Devil by way of the Klondike .
He could not , and would not , do without her .
No arrangement suggest by Caroline avail to pacify him , and , in the end , Eunice refuse to marry Edward Bell .
She could not leave Christopher , she say simply , and in this she stand rock-firm .
Caroline could not budge her an inch .
`` You 're a fool , Eunice , '' she say , when she be oblige to give up in despair .
`` It 's not likely you 'll ever have another chance .
As for Chris , in a year or two he 'll be marry himself , and where will you be then ?
You 'll find your nose nicely out of joint when he bring a wife in here . ''
The shaft go home .
Eunice 's lip turn white .
But she say , faintly , `` The house be big enough for u both , if he do . ''
Caroline sniffed .
`` Maybe so .
You 'll find out .
However , there 's no use talk .
You 're as set a your mother be , and nothing would ever budge her an inch .
I only hope you wo n't be sorry for it . ''
When three more year have pass Christopher begin to court Victoria Pye .
The affair go on for some time before either Eunice or the Hollands go wind of it .
When they do there be an explosion .
Between the Hollands and the Pyes , root and branch , exist a feud that date back for three generation .
That the original cause of the quarrel be totally forget do not matter ; it be matter of family pride that a Holland should have no dealing with a Pye .
When Christopher fly so openly in the face of this cherish hatred , there could be nothing less than consternation .
Charles Holland break through his determination to have nothing to do with Christopher , to remonstrate .
Caroline go to Eunice in as much of a splutter a if Christopher have be her own brother .
Eunice do not care a row of pin for the Holland-Pye feud .
Victoria be to her what any other girl , upon whom Christopher cast eye of love , would have be -- a supplanter .
For the first time in her life she be tear with passionate jealousy ; existence become a nightmare to her .
Urged on by Caroline , and her own pain , she venture to remonstrate with Christopher , also .
She have expect a burst of rage , but he be surprisingly good-natured .
He seem even amuse .
`` What have you get against Victoria ? ''
he ask , tolerantly .
Eunice have no answer ready .
It be true that nothing could be say against the girl .
She felt helpless and baffle .
Christopher laugh at her silence .
`` I guess you 're a little jealous , '' he say .
`` You must have expect I would get married some time .
This house be big enough for u all .
You 'd better look at the matter sensibly , Eunice .
Do n't let Charles and Caroline put nonsense into your head .
A man must marry to please himself . ''
Christopher be out late that night .
Eunice wait up for him , a she always do .
It be a chilly spring evening , remind her of the night her mother have die .
The kitchen be in spotless order , and she sit down on a stiff-backed chair by the window to wait for her brother .
She do not want a light .
The moonlight fell in with faint illumination .
Outside , the wind be blow over a bed of new-sprung mint in the garden , and be suggestively fragrant .
It be a very old-fashioned garden , full of perennial Naomi Holland have plant long ago .
Eunice always keep it primly neat .
She have be work in it that day , and felt tire .
She be all alone in the house and the loneliness fill her with a faint dread .
She have try all that day to reconcile herself to Christopher 's marriage , and have partially succeed .
She tell herself that she could still watch over him and care for his comfort .
She would even try to love Victoria ; after all , it might be pleasant to have another woman in the house .
So , sit there , she feed her hungry soul with these husk of comfort .
When she hear Christopher 's step she move about quickly to get a light .
He frown when he saw her ; he have always resent her sit up for him .
He sit down by the stove and take off his boot , while Eunice get a lunch for him .
After he have eat it in silence he make no move to go to bed .
A chill , premonitory fear crept over Eunice .
It do not surprise her at all when Christopher finally say , abruptly , `` Eunice , I 've a notion to get marry this spring . ''
Eunice clasp her hand together under the table .
It be what she have be expect .
She say so , in a monotonous voice .
`` We must make some arrangement for -- for you , Eunice , '' Christopher go on , in a hurried , hesitant way , keep his eye rivet doggedly on his plate .
`` Victoria do n't exactly like -- well , she think it 's good for young marry folk to begin life by themselves , and I guess she 's about right .
You would n't find it comfortable , anyhow , have to step back to second place after be mistress here so long . ''
Eunice try to speak , but only an indistinct murmur come from her bloodless lip .
The sound make Christopher look up .
Something in her face irritate him .
He push back his chair impatiently .
`` Now , Eunice , do n't go take on .
It wo n't be any use .
Look at this business in a sensible way .
I 'm fond of you , and all that , but a man be bind to consider his wife first .
I 'll provide for you comfortably . ''
`` Do you mean to say that your wife be go to turn me out ? ''
Eunice gasp , rather than speak , the word .
Christopher draw his reddish brow together .
`` I just mean that Victoria say she wo n't marry me if she have to live with you .
She 's afraid of you .
I tell her you would n't interfere with her , but she be n't satisfy .
It 's your own fault , Eunice .
You 've always be so queer and close that people think you 're an awful crank .
Victoria 's young and lively , and you and she would n't get on at all .
There be n't any question of turn you out .
I 'll build a little house for you somewhere , and you 'll be a great deal good off there than you would be here .
So do n't make a fuss . ''
Eunice do not look a if she be go to make a fuss .
She sit a if turn to stone , her hand lie palm upward in her lap .
Christopher get up , hugely relieve that the dreaded explanation be over .
`` Guess I 'll go to bed .
You 'd better have go long ago .
It 's all nonsense , this wait up for me . ''
When he have go Eunice draw a long , sob breath and look about her like a dazed soul .
All the sorrow of her life be a nothing to the desolation that assail her now .
She rise and , with uncertain footstep , pass out through the hall and into the room where her mother die .
She have always keep it lock and undisturbed ; it be arrange just a Naomi Holland have leave it .
Eunice totter to the bed and sit down on it .
She recall the promise she have make to her mother in that very room .
Was the power to keep it to be wrest from her ?
Was she to be drive from her home and part from the only creature she have on earth to love ?
And would Christopher allow it , after all her sacrifice for him ?
Aye , that he would !
He care more for that black-eyed , waxen-faced girl at the old Pye place than for his own kin .
Eunice put her hand over her dry , burn eye and groan aloud .
Caroline Holland have her hour of triumph over Eunice when she hear it all .
To one of her nature there be no pleasure so sweet a that of say , `` I tell you so . ''
Having say it , however , she offer Eunice a home .
Electa Holland be dead , and Eunice might fill her place very acceptably , if she would .
`` You ca n't go off and live by yourself , '' Caroline tell her .
`` It 's all nonsense to talk of such a thing .
We will give you a home , if Christopher be go to turn you out .
You be always a fool , Eunice , to pet and pamper him a you 've do .
This be the thanks you get for it -- turn out like a dog for his fine wife 's whim !
I only wish your mother be alive ! ''
It be probably the first time Caroline have ever wish this .
She have fly at Christopher like a fury about the matter , and have be rudely insulted for her pain .
Christopher have tell her to mind her own business .
When Caroline cool down she make some arrangement with him , to all of which Eunice listlessly assent .
She do not care what become of her .
When Christopher Holland bring Victoria a mistress to the house where his mother have toil , and suffer , and rule with her rod of iron , Eunice be go .
In Charles Holland 's household she take Electa 's place -- an unpaid upper servant .
Charles and Caroline be kind enough to her , and there be plenty to do .
For five year her dull , colorless life go on , during which time she never cross the threshold of the house where Victoria Holland rule with a sway as absolute a Naomi 's have be .
Caroline 's curiosity lead her , after her first anger have cool , to make occasional call , the observation of which she faithfully report to Eunice .
The latter never betray any interest in them , save once .
This be when Caroline come home full of the news that Victoria have have the room where Naomi die open up , and showily furnish a a parlor .
Then Eunice 's sallow face crimson , and her eye flash , over the desecration .
But no word of comment or complaint ever cross her lip .
She know , a every one else know , that the glamor soon go from Christopher Holland 's married life .
The marriage prove an unhappy one .
Not unnaturally , although unjustly , Eunice blame Victoria for this , and hat her more than ever for it .
Christopher seldom come to Charles ' house .
Possibly he felt ashamed .
He have grow into a morose , silent man , at home and abroad .
It be say he have go back to his old drinking habit .
One fall Victoria Holland go to town to visit her married sister .
She take their only child with her .
In her absence Christopher keep house for himself .
It be a fall long remember in Avonlea .
With the dropping of the leaf , and the shortening of the dreary day , the shadow of a fear fell over the land .
Charles Holland bring the fateful news home one night .
`` There 's smallpox in Charlottetown -- five or six case .
Came in one of the vessel .
There be a concert , and a sailor from one of the ship be there , and take sick the next day . ''
This be alarm enough .
Charlottetown be not so very far away and considerable traffic go on between it and the north shore district .
When Caroline recount the concert story to Christopher the next morning his ruddy face turn quite pale .
He open his lip a if to speak , then close them again .
They be sit in the kitchen ; Caroline have run over to return some tea she have borrow , and , incidentally , to see what she could of Victoria 's housekeeping in her absence .
Her eye have be busy while her tongue ran on , so she do not notice the man 's pallor and silence .
`` How long do it take for smallpox to develop after one have be expose to it ? ''
he ask abruptly , when Caroline rise to go .
`` Ten to fourteen day , I calc ` late , '' be her answer .
`` I must see about have the girl vaccinate right off .
It 'll likely spread .
When do you expect Victoria home ? ''
`` When she 's ready to come , whenever that will be , '' be the gruff response .
A week later Caroline say to Eunice , `` Whatever 's get Christopher ?
He have n't be out anywhere for age -- just hang round home the whole time .
It 's something new for him .
I s ` pose the place be so quiet , now Madam Victoria 's away , that he can find some rest for his soul .
I believe I 'll run over after milk and see how he 's get on .
You might as well come , too , Eunice . ''
Eunice shake her head .
She have all her mother 's obstinacy , and darken Victoria 's door she would not .
She go on patiently darn sock , sit at the west window , which be her favorite position -- perhaps because she could look from it across the sloping field and past the crescent curve of maple grove to her lose home .
After milk , Caroline throw a shawl over her head and ran across the field .
The house look lonely and desert .
As she fumble at the latch of the gate the kitchen door open , and Christopher Holland appear on the threshold .
`` Do n't come any farther , '' he call .
Caroline fell back in blank astonishment .
Was this some more of Victoria 's work ?
`` I ai n't an agent for the smallpox , '' she call back viciously .
Christopher do not heed her .
`` Will you go home and ask uncle if he 'll go , or send for Doctor Spencer ?
He 's the smallpox doctor .
I 'm sick . ''
Caroline felt a thrill of dismay and fear .
She falter a few step backward .
`` Sick ?
What 's the matter with you ? ''
`` I be in Charlottetown that night , and go to the concert .
That sailor sit right beside me .
I think at the time he look sick .
It be just twelve day ago .
I 've felt bad all day yesterday and to-day .
Send for the doctor .
Do n't come near the house , or let any one else come near . ''
He go in and shut the door .
Caroline stand for a few moment in an almost ludicrous panic .
Then she turn and run , a if for her life , across the field .
Eunice saw her coming and meet her at the door .
`` Mercy on u ! ''
gasped Caroline .
`` Christopher 's sick and he think he 's get the smallpox .
Where 's Charles ? ''
Eunice totter back against the door .
Her hand go up to her side in a way that have be get very common with her of late .
Even in the midst of her excitement Caroline notice it .
`` Eunice , what make you do that every time anything startle you ? ''
she ask sharply .
`` Is it anything about your heart ? ''
`` I do n't -- know .
A little pain -- it 's go now .
Did you say that Christopher have -- the smallpox ? ''
`` Well , he say so himself , and it 's more than likely , consider the circumstance .
I declare , I never get such a turn in my life .
It 's a dreadful thing .
I must find Charles at once -- there 'll be a hundred thing to do . ''
Eunice hardly hear her .
Her mind be center upon one idea .
Christopher be ill -- alone -- she must go to him .
It do not matter what his disease be .
When Caroline come in from her breathless expedition to the barn , she find Eunice stand by the table , with her hat and shawl on , tie up a parcel .
`` Eunice !
Where on earth be you go ? ''
`` Over home , '' say Eunice .
`` If Christopher be go to be ill he must be nurse , and I 'm the one to do it .
He ought to be see to right away . ''
`` Eunice Carr !
Have you go clean out of your sens ?
It 's the smallpox -- the smallpox !
If he 's get it he 'll have to be take to the smallpox hospital in town .
You sha n't stir a step to go to that house ! ''
`` I will . ''
Eunice face her excited aunt quietly .
The odd resemblance to her mother , which only come out in moment of great tension , be plainly visible .
`` He sha n't go to the hospital -- they never get proper attention there .
You need n't try to stop me .
It wo n't put you or your family in any danger . ''
Caroline fell helplessly into a chair .
She felt that it would be of no use to argue with a woman so determine .
She wish Charles be there .
But Charles have already go , post-haste , for the doctor .
With a firm step , Eunice go across the field foot-path she have not tread for so long .
She felt no fear -- rather a sort of elation .
Christopher need her once more ; the interloper who have come between them be not there .
As she walk through the frosty twilight she think of the promise make to Naomi Holland , year ago .
Christopher saw her coming and wave her back .
`` Do n't come any nearer , Eunice .
Did n't Caroline tell you ?
I 'm take smallpox . ''
Eunice do not pause .
She go boldly through the yard and up the porch step .
He retreat before her and hold the door .
`` Eunice , you 're crazy , girl !
Go home , before it 's too late . ''
Eunice push open the door resolutely and go in .
`` It 's too late now .
I 'm here , and I mean to stay and nurse you , if it 's the smallpox you 've get .
Maybe it 's not .
Just now , when a person have a finger-ache , he think it 's smallpox .
Anyhow , whatever it be , you ought to be in bed and look after .
You 'll catch cold .
Let me get a light and have a look at you . ''
Christopher have sink into a chair .
His natural selfishness reassert itself , and he make no further effort to dissuade Eunice .
She get a lamp and set it on the table by him , while she scrutinize his face closely .
`` You look feverish .
What do you feel like ?
When do you take sick ? ''
`` Yesterday afternoon .
I have chill and hot spell and pain in my back .
Eunice , do you think it 's really smallpox ?
And will I die ? ''
He catch her hand , and look imploringly up at her , a a child might have do .
Eunice felt a wave of love and tenderness sweep warmly over her starved heart .
`` Do n't worry .
Lots of people recover from smallpox if they 're properly nurse , and you 'll be that , for I 'll see to it .
Charles have go for the doctor , and we 'll know when he come .
You must go straight to bed . ''
She take off her hat and shawl , and hang them up .
She felt as much at home a if she have never be away .
She have get back to her kingdom , and there be none to dispute it with her .
When Dr. Spencer and old Giles Blewett , who have have smallpox in his youth , come , two hour later , they find Eunice in serene charge .
the house be in order and reeking of disinfectant .
Victoria 's fine furniture and fixing be be bundle out of the parlor .
There be no bedroom downstairs , and , if Christopher be go to be ill , he must be instal there .
The doctor look grave .
`` I do n't like it , '' he say , `` but I 'm not quite sure yet .
If it be smallpox the eruption will probably by out by morning .
I must admit he have most of the symptom .
Will you have him take to the hospital ? ''
`` No , '' say Eunice , decisively .
`` I 'll nurse him myself .
I 'm not afraid and I 'm well and strong . ''
`` Very well .
You 've be vaccinate lately ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Well , nothing more can be do at present .
You may as well lie down for a while and save your strength . ''
But Eunice could not do that .
There be too much to attend to .
She go out to the hall and throw up the window .
Down below , at a safe distance , Charles Holland be wait .
The cold wind blow up to Eunice the odor of the disinfectant with which he have steep himself .
`` What do the doctor say ? ''
he shout .
`` He think it 's the smallpox .
Have you send word to Victoria ? ''
`` Yes , Jim Blewett drive into town and tell her .
She 'll stay with her sister till it be over .
Of course it 's the best thing for her to do .
She 's terribly frighten . ''
Eunice 's lip curl contemptuously .
To her , a wife who could desert her husband , no matter what disease he have , be an incomprehensible creature .
But it be well so ; she would have Christopher all to herself .
The night be long and wearisome , but the morning come all too soon for the dread certainty it bring .
The doctor pronounce the case smallpox .
Eunice have hop against hope , but now , know the bad , she be very calm and resolute .
By noon the fateful yellow flag be fly over the house , and all arrangement have be make .
Caroline be to do the necessary cooking , and Charles be to bring the food and leave it in the yard .
Old Giles Blewett be to come every day and attend to the stock , as well a help Eunice with the sick man ; and the long , hard fight with death begin .
It be a hard fight , indeed .
Christopher Holland , in the clutch of the loathsome disease , be an object from which his near and dear might have be pardon for shrink .
But Eunice never falter ; she never leave her post .
Sometimes she doze in a chair by the bed , but she never lay down .
Her endurance be something wonderful , her patience and tenderness almost superhuman .
To and fro she go , in noiseless ministry , a the long , dreadful day wore away , with a quiet smile on her lip , and in her dark , sorrowful eye the rapt look of a pictured saint in some dim cathedral niche .
For her there be no world outside the bare room where lay the repulsive object she love .
One day the doctor look very grave .
He have grow well-hardened to pitiful scene in his life-time ; but he shrink from tell Eunice that her brother could not live .
He have never see such devotion a hers .
It seem brutal to tell her that it have be in vain .
But Eunice have see it for herself .
She take it very calmly , the doctor thought .
And she have her reward at last -- such a it be .
She think it amply sufficient .
One night Christopher Holland open his swollen eye a she bend over him .
They be alone in the old house .
It be rain outside , and the drop rattle noisily on the pane .
Christopher smile at his sister with parched lip , and put out a feeble hand toward her .
`` Eunice , '' he say faintly , `` you 've be the best sister ever a man have .
I have n't treat you right ; but you 've stand by me to the last .
Tell Victoria -- tell her -- to be good to you -- '' His voice die away into an inarticulate murmur .
Eunice Carr be alone with her dead .
They bury Christopher Holland in haste and privacy the next day .
The doctor disinfect the house , and Eunice be to stay there alone until it might be safe to make other arrangement .
She have not shed a tear ; the doctor think she be a rather odd person , but he have a great admiration for her .
He tell her she be the best nurse he have ever see .
To Eunice , praise or blame mattered nothing .
Something in her life have snap -- some vital interest have depart .
She wonder how she could live through the dreary , come year .
Late that night she go into the room where her mother and brother have die .
The window be open and the cold , pure air be grateful to her after the drug-laden atmosphere she have breathe so long .
She kneel down by the stripped bed .
`` Mother , '' she say aloud , `` I have keep my promise . ''
When she try to rise , long after , she stagger and fell across the bed , with her hand press on her heart .
Old Giles Blewett find her there in the morning .
There be a smile on her face .
XIII .
THE CONSCIENCE CASE OF DAVID BELL Eben Bell come in with an armful of wood and bang it cheerfully down in the box behind the glow Waterloo stove , which be color the heart of the little kitchen 's gloom with tremulous , rose-red whirl of light .
`` There , si , that 's the last chore on my list .
Bob 's milking .
Nothing more for me to do but put on my white collar for meeting .
Avonlea be more than lively since the evangelist come , ai n't it , though ! ''
Mollie Bell nod .
She be curl her hair before the tiny mirror that hung on the whitewash wall and distort her round , pink-and-white face into a grotesque caricature .
`` Wonder who 'll stand up to-night , '' say Eben reflectively , sit down on the edge of the wood-box .
`` There ai n't many sinner leave in Avonlea -- only a few hardened chap like myself . ''
`` You should n't talk like that , '' say Mollie rebukingly .
`` What if father heard you ? ''
`` Father would n't hear me if I shout it in his ear , '' return Eben .
`` He go around , these day , like a man in a dream and a mighty bad dream at that .
Father have always be a good man .
What 's the matter with him ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' say Mollie , drop her voice .
`` Mother be dreadfully worry over him .
And everybody be talk , Eb .
It just make me squirm .
Flora Jane Fletcher ask me last night why father never testify , and him one of the elder .
She say the minister be perplex about it .
I felt my face get red . ''
`` Why do n't you tell her it be no business of hers ? ''
say Eben angrily .
`` Old Flora Jane have well mind her own business . ''
`` But all the folk be talk about it , Eb .
And mother be fret her heart out over it .
Father have never act like himself since these meeting begin .
He just go there night after night , and sits like a mummy , with his head down .
And almost everybody else in Avonlea have testify . ''
`` Oh , no , there 's lot have n't , '' say Eben .
`` Matthew Cuthbert never have , nor Uncle Elisha , nor any of the Whites . ''
`` But everybody know they do n't believe in get up and testifying , so nobody wonder when they do n't .
Besides , '' Mollie laugh -- `` Matthew could never get a word out in public , if he do believe in it .
He 'd be too shy .
But , '' she add with a sigh , `` it be n't that way with father .
He believe in testimony , so people wonder why he do n't get up .
Why , even old Josiah Sloane get up every night . ''
`` With his whisker stick out every which way , and his hair ditto , '' interject the graceless Eben .
`` When the minister call for testimonial and all the folk look at our pew , I feel ready to sink through the floor for shame , '' sigh Mollie .
`` If father would get up just once ! ''
Miriam Bell enter the kitchen .
She be ready for the meeting , to which Major Spencer be to take her .
She be a tall , pale girl , with a serious face , and dark , thoughtful eye , totally unlike Mollie .
She have `` come under conviction '' during the meeting , and have stand up for prayer and testimony several time .
The evangelist think her very spiritual .
She hear Mollie 's conclude sentence and speak reprovingly .
`` You should n't criticize your father , Mollie .
It be n't for you to judge him . ''
Eben have hastily slip out .
He be afraid Miriam would begin talk religion to him if he stay .
He have with difficulty escape from an exhortation by Robert in the cow-stable .
There be no peace in Avonlea for the unregenerate , he reflect .
Robert and Miriam have both `` come out , '' and Mollie be hover on the brink .
`` Dad and I be the black sheep of the family , '' he say , with a laugh , for which he at once felt guilty .
Eben have be bring up with a strict reverence for all religious matter .
On the surface he might sometimes laugh at them , but the deep trouble him whenever he do so .
Indoors , Miriam touch her young sister 's shoulder and look at her affectionately .
`` Wo n't you decide to-night , Mollie ? ''
she ask , in a voice tremulous with emotion .
Mollie crimson and turn her face away uncomfortably .
She do not know what answer to make , and be glad that a jingle of bell outside save her the necessity of replying .
`` There 's your beau , Miriam , '' she say , a she dart into the sit room .
Soon after , Eben bring the family pung and his chubby red mare to the door for Mollie .
He have not a yet attain to the dignity of a cutter of his own .
That be for his elder brother , Robert , who presently come out in his new fur coat and drive dashingly away with bell and glitter .
`` Thinks he 's the people , '' remark Eben , with a fraternal grin .
The rich winter twilight be purple over the white world a they drive down the lane under the over-arching wild cherry tree that glitter with gemmy hoar-frost .
The snow creak and crisp under the runner .
A shrill wind be keen in the leafless dogwood .
Over the tree the sky be a dome of silver , with a lucent star or two on the slope of the west .
Earth-stars gleam warmly out here and there , where homestead be tuck snugly away in their orchard or grove of birch .
`` The church will be jam to-night , '' say Eben .
`` It 's so fine that folk will come from near and far .
Guess it 'll be excite . ''
`` If only father would testify ! ''
sigh Mollie , from the bottom of the pung , where she be snuggle amid fur and straw .
`` Miriam can say what she like , but I do feel a if we be all disgrace .
It send a creep all over me to hear Mr. Bentley say , ` Now , be n't there one more to say a word for Jesus ? '
and look right over at father . ''
Eben flick his mare with his whip , and she break into a trot .
The silence be fill with a faint , fairy-like melody from afar down the road where a pungful of young folk from White Sands be sing hymn on their way to meeting .
`` Look here , Mollie , '' say Eben awkwardly at last , `` be you go to stand up for prayer to-night ? ''
`` I -- I ca n't as long a father act this way , '' answer Mollie , in a choked voice .
`` I -- I want to , Eb , and Mirry and Bob want me to , but I ca n't .
I do hope that the evangelist wo n't come and talk to me special to-night .
I always feel a if I be be pull two different way , when he do . ''
Back in the kitchen at home Mrs. Bell be wait for her husband to bring the horse to the door .
She be a slight , dark-eyed little woman , with thin , vivid-red cheek .
From out of the swathing in which she have wrap her bonnet , her face gleam sad and troubled .
Now and then she sigh heavily .
The cat come to her from under the stove , languidly stretch himself , and yawn until all the red cavern of his mouth and throat be reveal .
At the moment he have an uncanny resemblance to Elder Joseph Blewett of White Sands -- Roaring Joe , the irreverent boys call him -- when he grow excited and shout .
Mrs. Bell saw it -- and then reproach herself for the sacrilege .
`` But it 's no wonder I 've wicked thought , '' she say , wearily .
`` I 'm that worry I ai n't rightly myself .
If he would only tell me what the trouble be , maybe I could help him .
At any rate , I 'd KNOW .
It hurt me so to see him go about , day after day , with his head hanging and that look on his face , a if he have something fearful on his conscience -- him that never harm a living soul .
And then the way he groan and mutter in his sleep !
He have always live a just , upright life .
He have n't no right to go on like this , disgrace his family . ''
Mrs. Bell 's angry sob be cut short by the sleigh at the door .
Her husband poke in his busy , iron-gray head and say , `` Now , mother . ''
He help her into the sleigh , tuck the rug warmly around her , and put a hot brick at her foot .
His solicitude hurt her .
It be all for her material comfort .
It do not matter to him what mental agony she might suffer over his strange attitude .
For the first time in their married life Mary Bell felt resentment against her husband .
They drive along in silence , past the snow-powdered hedge of spruce , and under the arch of the forest roadway .
They be late , and a great stillness be over all the land .
David Bell never speak .
All his usual cheerful talkativeness have disappear since the revival meeting have begin in Avonlea .
From the first he have go about a a man over whom some strange doom be impend , seemingly oblivious to all that might be say or think of him in his own family or in the church .
Mary Bell think she would go out of her mind if her husband continue to act in this way .
Her reflection be bitter and rebellious a they speed along through the glitter night of the winter 's prime .
`` I do n't get one bit of good out of the meeting , '' she think resentfully .
`` There ai n't any peace or joy for me , not even in testify myself , when David sit there like a stick or stone .
If he 'd be oppose to the revivalist come here , like old Uncle Jerry , or if he do n't believe in public testimony , I would n't mind .
I 'd understand .
But , a it be , I feel dreadful humiliate . ''
Revival meeting have never be hold in Avonlea before .
`` Uncle '' Jerry MacPherson , who be the supreme local authority in church matter , take precedence of even the minister , have be uncompromisingly oppose to them .
He be a stern , deeply religious Scotchman , with a horror of the emotional form of religion .
As long a Uncle Jerry 's spare , ascetic form and deeply-graved square-jawed face fill his accustomed corner by the northwest window of Avonlea church no revivalist might venture therein , although the majority of the congregation , include the minister , would have welcome one warmly .
But now Uncle Jerry be sleep peacefully under the tangled grass and white snow of the burying ground , and , if dead people ever do turn in their graf , Uncle Jerry might well have turn in his when the revivalist come to Avonlea church , and there follow the emotional service , public testimony , and religious excitement which the old man 's sturdy soul have always abhor .
Avonlea be a good field for an evangelist .
The Rev . Geoffrey Mountain , who come to assist the Avonlea minister in revivify the dry bone thereof , know this and revel in the knowledge .
It be not often that such a virgin parish could be find nowadays , with score of impressionable , unspoiled soul on which fervid oratory could play skillfully , a a master on a mighty organ , until every note in them thrill to life and utterance .
The Rev . Geoffrey Mountain be a good man ; of the earth , earthy , to be sure , but with an unquestionable sincerity of belief and purpose which go far to counterbalance the sensationalism of some of his method .
He be large and handsome , with a marvelously sweet and winning voice -- a voice that could melt into irresistible tenderness , or swell into sonorous appeal and condemnation , or ring like a trumpet call to battle .
His frequent grammatical error , and lapse into vulgarity , count for nothing against it charm , and the most commonplace word in the world would have borrow much of the power of real oratory from it magic .
He know it value and use it effectively -- perhaps even ostentatiously .
Geoffrey Mountain 's religion and method , like the man himself , be showy , but , of their kind , sincere , and , though the good he accomplish might not be unmixed , it be a quantity to be reckon with .
So the Rev . Geoffrey Mountain come to Avonlea , conquer and to conquer .
Night after night the church be crowd with eager listener , who hang breathlessly on his word and wept and thrill and exult a he will .
Into many young soul his appeal and warning burn their way , and each night they rise for prayer in response to his invitation .
Older Christians , too , take on a new lease of intensity , and even the unregenerate and the scoffer find a certain fascination in the meeting .
Threading through it all , for old and young , converted and unconverted , be an unacknowledged feeling for religious dissipation .
Avonlea be a quiet place , -- and the revival meeting be lively .
When David and Mary Bell reach the church the service have begin , and they hear the refrain of a hallelujah hymn a they be cross Harmon Andrews ' field .
David Bell leave his wife at the platform and drive to the horse-shed .
Mrs. Bell unwound the scarf from her bonnet and shake the frost crystal from it .
In the porch Flora Jane Fletcher and her sister , Mrs. Harmon Andrews , be talk in low whisper .
Presently Flora Jane put out her lank , cashmere-gloved hand and pluck Mrs. Bell 's shawl .
`` Mary , be the elder go to testify to-night ? ''
she ask , in a shrill whisper .
Mrs. Bell wince .
She would have give much to be able to answer `` Yes , '' but she have to say stiffly , `` I do n't know . ''
Flora Jane lift her chin .
`` Well , Mrs. Bell , I only ask because every one think it be strange he do n't -- and an elder , of all people .
It look a if he do n't think himself a Christian , you know .
Of course , we all know good , but it LOOKS that way .
If I be you , I 'd tell him folk be talk about it .
Mr. Bentley say it be hinder the full success of the meeting . ''
Mrs. Bell turn on her tormentor in swift anger .
She might resent her husband 's strange behavior herself , but nobody else should dare to criticize him to her .
`` I do n't think you need to worry yourself about the elder , Flora Jane , '' she say bitingly .
`` Maybe 't be n't the best Christians that do the most talk about it always .
I guess , as far a live up to his profession go , the elder will compare pretty favorably with Levi Boulter , who get up and testifies every night , and cheat the very eye-teeth out of people in the daytime . ''
Levi Boulter be a middle-aged widower , with a large family , who be suppose to have cast a matrimonial eye Flora Janeward .
The use of his name be an effective thrust on Mrs. Bell 's part , and silence Flora Jane .
Too angry for speech she seize her sister 's arm and hurry her into church .
But her victory could not remove from Mary Bell 's soul the sting implant there by Flora Jane 's word .
When her husband come up to the platform she put her hand on his snowy arm appealingly .
`` Oh , David , wo n't you get up to-night ?
I do feel so dreadful bad -- folk be talk so -- I just feel humiliated . ''
David Bell hang his head like a shamed schoolboy .
`` I ca n't , Mary , '' he say huskily . ''
` Tai n't no use to pester me . ''
`` You do n't care for my feeling , '' say his wife bitterly .
`` And Mollie wo n't come out because you 're act so .
You 're keep her back from salvation .
And you 're hinder the success of the revival -- Mr. Bentley say so . ''
David Bell groan .
This sign of suffer wrung his wife 's heart .
With quick contrition she whisper , `` There , never mind , David .
I ought n't to have speak to you so .
You know your duty best .
Let 's go in . ''
`` Wait . ''
His voice be implore .
`` Mary , be it true that Mollie wo n't come out because of me ?
Am I stand in my child 's light ? ''
`` I -- do n't -- know .
I guess not .
Mollie 's just a foolish young girl yet .
Never mind -- come in . ''
He follow her dejectedly in , and up the aisle to their pew in the center of the church .
The building be warm and crowd .
The pastor be read the Bible lesson for the evening .
In the choir , behind him , David Bell saw Mollie 's girlish face , ting with a troubled seriousness .
His own wind-ruddy face and bushy gray eyebrow work convulsively with his inward throe .
A sigh that be almost a groan burst from him .
`` I 'll have to do it , '' he say to himself in agony .
When several more hymn have be sing , and late arrival begin to pack the aisle , the evangelist arose .
His style for the evening be the tender , the pleading , the solemn .
He modulate his tone to marvelous sweetness , and send them thrillingly over the breathless pew , entangle the heart and soul of his listener in a mesh of subtle emotion .
Many of the woman begin to cry softly .
Fervent amen break from some of the member .
When the evangelist sit down , after a closing appeal which , in it way , be a masterpiece , an audible sigh of relieved tension pass like a wave over the audience .
After prayer the pastor make the usual request that , if any of those present wish to come out on the side of Christ , they would signify the wish by rise for a moment in their place .
After a brief interval , a pale boy under the gallery rise , follow by an old man at the top of the church .
A frightened , sweet-faced child of twelve get tremblingly upon her foot , and a dramatic thrill pass over the congregation when her mother suddenly stand up beside her .
The evangelist 's `` Thank God '' be hearty and insistent .
David Bell look almost imploringly at Mollie ; but she keep her seat , with downcast eye .
Over in the big square `` stone pew '' he saw Eben bend forward , with his elbow on his knee , gaze frowningly at the floor .
`` I 'm a stumbling block to them both , '' he think bitterly .
A hymn be sung and prayer offer for those under conviction .
Then testimony be call for .
The evangelist ask for them in tone which make it seem a personal request to every one in that building .
Many testimony follow , each infuse with the personality of the giver .
Most of them be brief and stereotype .
Finally a pause ensue .
The evangelist sweep the pew with his kindle eye and exclaim , appealingly , `` Has EVERY Christian in this church to-night spoken a word for his Master ? ''
There be many who have not testify , but every eye in the building follow the pastor 's accuse glance to the Bell pew .
Mollie crimson with shame .
Mrs. Bell cower visibly .
Although everybody look thus at David Bell , nobody now expect him to testify .
When he rise to his foot , a murmur of surprise pass over the audience , follow by a silence so complete a to be terrible .
To David Bell it seem to possess the awe of final judgment .
Twice he open his lip , and try vainly to speak .
The third time he succeed ; but his voice sound strangely in his own ear .
He grip the back of the pew before him with his knotty hand , and fix his eye unseeingly on the Christian Endeavor pledge that hung over the head of the choir .
`` Brethren and sister , '' he say hoarsely , `` before I can say a word of Christian testimony here to-night I 've get something to confess .
It 's be lie hard and heavy on my conscience ever since these meeting begin .
As long a I keep silence about it I could n't get up and bear witness for Christ .
Many of you have expect me to do it .
Maybe I 've be a stumble block to some of you .
This season of revival have bring no bless to me because of my sin , which I repent of , but try to conceal .
There have be a spiritual darkness over me .
`` Friends and neighbor , I have always be hold by you a an honest man .
It be the shame of have you know I be not which have keep me back from open confession and testimony .
Just afore these meeting commence I come home from town one night and find that somebody have pass a counterfeit ten-dollar bill on me .
Then Satan enter into me and possess me .
When Mrs. Rachel Lynde come next day , collect for foreign mission , I give her that ten dollar bill .
She never know the difference , and send it away with the rest .
But I know I 'd do a mean and sinful thing .
I could n't drive it out of my thought .
A few day afterwards I go down to Mrs. Rachel 's and give her ten good dollar for the fund .
I tell her I have come to the conclusion I ought to give more than ten dollar , out of my abundance , to the Lord .
That be a lie .
Mrs. Lynde think I be a generous man , and I felt ashamed to look her in the face .
But I 'd do what I could to right the wrong , and I think it would be all right .
But it be n't .
I 've never know a minute 's peace of mind or conscience since .
I try to cheat the Lord , and then try to patch it up by do something that redound to my worldly credit .
When these meeting begin , and everybody expect me to testify , I could n't do it .
It would have seem like blasphemy .
And I could n't endure the thought of tell what I 'd do , either .
I argue it all out a thousand time that I have n't do any real harm after all , but it be no use .
I 've be so wrap up in my own brooding and misery that I do n't realize I be inflict suffer on those dear to me by my conduct , and , maybe , hold some of them back from the path of salvation .
But my eye have be open to this to-night , and the Lord have give me strength to confess my sin and glorify His holy name . ''
The broken tone cease , and David Bell sit down , wipe the great drop of perspiration from his brow .
To a man of his training , and cast of thought , no ordeal could be more terrible than that through which he have just pass .
But underneath the turmoil of his emotion he felt a great calm and peace , thread with the exultation of a hard-won spiritual victory .
Over the church be a solemn hush .
The evangelist 's `` amen '' be not speak with his usual unctuous fervor , but very gently and reverently .
In spite of his coarse fiber , he could appreciate the nobility behind such a confession a this , and the deep of stern suffer it sound .
Before the last prayer the pastor pause and look around .
`` Is there yet one , '' he ask gently , `` who wish to be especially remember in our conclude prayer ? ''
For a moment nobody move .
Then Mollie Bell stand up in the choir seat , and , down by the stove , Eben , his flush , boyish face hold high , rise sturdily to his foot in the midst of his companion .
`` Thank God , '' whisper Mary Bell .
`` Amen , '' say her husband huskily .
`` Let u pray , '' say Mr. Bentley .
XIV .
ONLY A COMMON FELLOW On my dearie 's wedding morning I waken early and go to her room .
Long and long ago she have make me promise that I would be the one to wake her on the morning of her wedding day .
`` You be the first to take me in your arm when I come into the world , Aunt Rachel , '' she have say , `` and I want you to be the first to greet me on that wonderful day . ''
But that be long ago , and now my heart forebode that there would be no need of waken her .
And there be not .
She be lie there awake , very quiet , with her hand under her cheek , and her big blue eye fix on the window , through which a pale , dull light be creep in -- a joyless light it be , and enough to make a body shiver .
I felt more like weep than rejoice , and my heart take to ache when I saw her there so white and patient , more like a girl who be wait for a winding-sheet than for a bridal veil .
But she smile brave-like , when I sit down on her bed and take her hand .
`` You look a if you have n't sleep all night , dearie , '' I say .
`` I do n't -- not a great deal , '' she answer me .
`` But the night do n't seem long ; no , it seem too short .
I be think of a great many thing .
What time be it , Aunt Rachel ? ''
`` Five o'clock . ''
`` Then in six hour more -- '' She suddenly sit up in her bed , her great , thick rope of brown hair fall over her white shoulder , and fling her arm about me , and burst into tear on my old breast .
I pet and soothe her , and say not a word ; and , after a while , she stop cry ; but she still sit with her head so that I could n't see her face .
`` We do n't think it would be like this once , do we , Aunt Rachel ? ''
she say , very softly .
`` It should n't be like this , now , '' I say .
I have to say it .
I never could hide the thought of that marriage , and I could n't pretend to .
It be all her stepmother 's doings -- right well I know that .
My dearie would never have take Mark Foster else .
`` Do n't let u talk of that , '' she say , soft and beseeching , just the same way she use to speak when she be a baby-child and want to coax me into something .
`` Let u talk about the old day -- and HIM . ''
`` I do n't see much use in talk of HIM , when you 're go to marry Mark Foster to-day , '' I say .
But she put her hand on my mouth .
`` It 's for the last time , Aunt Rachel .
After to-day I can never talk of him , or even think of him .
It 's four year since he go away .
Do you remember how he look , Aunt Rachel ? ''
`` I mind well enough , I reckon , '' I say , kind of curt-like .
And I do .
Owen Blair have n't a face a body could forget -- that long face of his with it clean color and it eye make to look love into a woman 's .
When I think of Mark Foster 's sallow skin and lank jaw I felt sick-like .
Not that Mark be ugly -- he be just a common-looking fellow .
`` He be so handsome , be n't he , Aunt Rachel ? ''
my dearie go on , in that patient voice of hers .
`` So tall and strong and handsome .
I wish we have n't part in anger .
It be so foolish of u to quarrel .
But it would have be all right if he have live to come back .
I know it would have be all right .
I know he do n't carry any bitterness against me to his death .
I think once , Aunt Rachel , that I would go through life true to him , and then , over on the other side , I 'd meet him just a before , all his and his only .
But it be n't to be . ''
`` Thanks to your stepma 's wheedling and Mark Foster 's scheming , '' say I . `` No , Mark do n't scheme , '' she say patiently .
`` Do n't be unjust to Mark , Aunt Rachel .
He have be very good and kind . ''
`` He 's as stupid a an owlet and as stubborn a Solomon 's mule , '' I say , for I WOULD say it .
`` He 's just a common fellow , and yet he think he 's good enough for my beauty . ''
`` Do n't talk about Mark , '' she plead again .
`` I mean to be a good , faithful wife to him .
But I 'm my own woman yet -- YET -- for just a few more sweet hour , and I want to give them to HIM .
The last hour of my maidenhood -- they must belong to HIM . ''
So she talk of him , me sit there and hold her , with her lovely hair hang down over my arm , and my heart ache so for her that it hurt bitter .
She do n't feel as bad a I do , because she 'd make up her mind what to do and be resign .
She be go to marry Mark Foster , but her heart be in France , in that grave nobody knew of , where the Huns have bury Owen Blair -- if they have bury him at all .
And she go over all they have be to each other , since they be mite of baby , go to school together and meaning , even then , to be marry when they grow up ; and the first word of love he 'd say to her , and what she 'd dream and hop for .
The only thing she do n't bring up be the time he thrash Mark Foster for bring her apple .
She never mention Mark 's name ; it be all Owen -- Owen -- and how he look , and what might have be , if he have n't go off to the awful war and get shot .
And there be me , hold her and listen to it all , and her stepma sleep sound and triumphant in the next room .
When she have talk it all out she lay down on her pillow again .
I get up and go downstairs to light the fire .
I felt terrible old and tired .
My foot seem to drag , and the tear keep come to my eye , though I try to keep them away , for well I know it be a bad omen to be weep on a wedding day .
Before long Isabella Clark come down ; bright and pleased-looking enough , SHE be .
I 'd never like Isabella , from the day Phillippa 's father bring her here ; and I like her less than ever this morning .
She be one of your sly , deep woman , always smile smooth , and scheme underneath it .
I 'll say it for her , though , she have be good to Phillippa ; but it be her doings that my dearie be to marry Mark Foster that day .
`` Up betimes , Rachel , '' she say , smile and speak me fair , a she always do , and hat me in her heart , a I well knew .
`` That be right , for we 'll have plenty to do to-day .
A wedding make lot of work . ''
`` Not this sort of a wedding , '' I say , sour-like .
`` I do n't call it a wed when two people get marry and sneak off a if they be ashamed of it -- as well they might be in this case . ''
`` It be Phillippa 's own wish that all should be very quiet , '' say Isabella , as smooth a cream .
`` You know I 'd have give her a big wedding , if she 'd want it . ''
`` Oh , it 's good quiet , '' I say .
`` The few to see Phillippa marry a man like Mark Foster the good . ''
`` Mark Foster be a good man , Rachel . ''
`` No good man would be content to buy a girl a he 's bought Phillippa , '' I say , determine to give it in to her .
`` He 's a common fellow , not fit for my dearie to wipe her foot on .
It 's well that her mother do n't live to see this day ; but this day would never have come , if she 'd live . ''
`` I dare say Phillippa 's mother would have remember that Mark Foster be very well off , quite as readily a bad people , '' say Isabella , a little spitefully .
I like her good when she be spiteful than when she be smooth .
I do n't feel so scared of her then .
The marriage be to be at eleven o'clock , and , at nine , I go up to help Phillippa dress .
She be no fussy bride , care much what she look like .
If Owen have be the bridegroom it would have be different .
Nothing would have please her then ; but now it be only just `` That will do very well , Aunt Rachel , '' without even glance at it .
Still , nothing could prevent her from look lovely when she be dress .
My dearie would have be a beauty in a beggarmaid 's rag .
In her white dress and veil she be as fair a a queen .
And she be as good a she be pretty .
It be the right sort of goodness , too , with just enough spice of original sin in it to keep it from spoil by reason of over-sweetness .
Then she send me out .
`` I want to be alone my last hour , '' she say .
`` Kiss me , Aunt Rachel -- MOTHER Rachel . ''
When I 'd go down , cry like the old fool I be , I hear a rap at the door .
My first thought be to go out and send Isabella to it , for I suppose it be Mark Foster , come ahead of time , and small stomach I have for see him .
I fall tremble , even yet , when I think , `` What if I have send Isabella to that door ? ''
But go I do , and open it , defiant-like , kind of hop it be Mark Foster to see the tear on my face .
I open it -- and stagger back like I 'd get a blow .
`` Owen !
Lord ha ' mercy on u !
Owen ! ''
I say , just like that , go cold all over , for it 's the truth that I think it be his spirit come back to forbid that unholy marriage .
But he spring right in , and catch my wrinkled old hand in a grasp that be of flesh and blood .
`` Aunt Rachel , I 'm not too late ? ''
he say , savage-like .
`` Tell me I 'm in time . ''
I look up at him , stand over me there , tall and handsome , no change in him except he be so brown and have a little white scar on his forehead ; and , though I could n't understand at all , be all bewildered-like , I felt a great deep thankfulness .
`` No , you 're not too late , '' I say .
`` Thank God , '' say he , under his breath .
And then he pull me into the parlor and shut the door .
`` They tell me at the station that Phillippa be to be marry to Mark Foster to-day .
I could n't believe it , but I come here as fast a horse-flesh could bring me .
Aunt Rachel , it ca n't be true !
She ca n't care for Mark Foster , even if she have forget me ! ''
`` It 's true enough that she be to marry Mark , '' I say , half-laughing , half-crying , `` but she do n't care for him .
Every beat of her heart be for you .
It 's all her stepma 's doings .
Mark have get a mortgage on the place , and he tell Isabella Clark that , if Phillippa would marry him , he 'd burn the mortgage , and , if she would n't , he 'd foreclose .
Phillippa be sacrifice herself to save her stepma for her dead father 's sake .
It 's all your fault , '' I cry , get over my bewilderment .
`` We think you be dead .
Why do n't you come home when you be alive ?
Why do n't you write ? ''
`` I DID write , after I get out of the hospital , several time , '' he say , `` and never a word in answer , Aunt Rachel .
What be I to think when Phillippa would n't answer my letter ? ''
`` She never get one , '' I cry .
`` She weep her sweet eye out over you .
SOMEBODY must have get those letter . ''
And I know then , and I know now , though never a shadow of proof have I , that Isabella Clark have get them -- and keep them .
That woman would stick at nothing .
`` Well , we 'll sift that matter some other time , '' say Owen impatiently .
`` There be other thing to think of now .
I must see Phillippa . ''
`` I 'll manage it for you , '' I say eagerly ; but , just a I speak , the door open and Isabella and Mark come in .
Never shall I forget the look on Isabella 's face .
I almost felt sorry for her .
She turn sickly yellow and her eye go wild ; they be look at the downfall of all her scheme and hope .
I do n't look at Mark Foster , at first , and , when I do , there be n't anything to see .
His face be just a sallow and wooden a ever ; he look undersized and common beside Owen .
Nobody 'd ever have pick him out for a bridegroom .
Owen speak first .
`` I want to see Phillippa , '' he say , a if it be but yesterday that he have go away .
All Isabella 's smoothness and policy have drop away from her , and the real woman stand there , plot and unscrupulous , a I 'd always know her .
`` You ca n't see her , '' she say desperate-like .
`` She do n't want to see you .
You go and leave her and never write , and she know you be n't worth fret over , and she have learn to care for a good man . ''
`` I DID write and I think you know that good than most folk , '' say Owen , try hard to speak quiet .
`` As for the rest , I 'm not go to discuss it with you .
When I hear from Phillippa 's own lip that she care for another man I 'll believe it -- and not before . ''
`` You 'll never hear it from her lip , '' say I. Isabella give me a venomous look .
`` You 'll not see Phillippa until she be a good man 's wife , '' she say stubbornly , `` and I order you to leave my house , Owen Blair ! ''
`` No ! ''
It be Mark Foster who speak .
He have n't say a word ; but he come forward now , and stand before Owen .
Such a difference a there be between them !
But he look Owen right in the face , quiet-like , and Owen glare back in fury .
`` Will it satisfy you , Owen , if Phillippa come down here and choose between u ? ''
`` Yes , it will , '' say Owen .
Mark Foster turn to me .
`` Go and bring her down , '' say he .
Isabella , judge Phillippa by herself , give a little moan of despair , and Owen , blind by love and hope , think his cause be win .
But I know my dearie too well to be glad , and Mark Foster do , too , and I hat him for it .
I go up to my dearie 's room , all pale and shaking .
When I go in she come to meet me , like a girl go to meet death .
`` Is -- it -- time ? ''
she say , with her hand lock tight together .
I say not a word , hop that the unlooked-for sight of Owen would break down her resolution .
I just hold out my hand to her , and lead her downstairs .
She cling to me and her hand be as cold a snow .
When I open the parlor door I stand back , and push her in before me .
She just cry , `` Owen ! ''
and shake so that I put my arm about her to steady her .
Owen make a step towards her , his face and eye all aflame with his love and longing , but Mark bar his way .
`` Wait till she have make her choice , '' he say , and then he turn to Phillippa .
I could n't see my dearie 's face , but I could see Mark 's , and there be n't a spark of feeling in it .
Behind it be Isabella 's , all pinch and gray .
`` Phillippa , '' say Mark , `` Owen Blair have come back .
He say he have never forget you , and that he write to you several time .
I have tell him that you have promise me , but I leave you freedom of choice .
Which of u will you marry , Phillippa ? ''
My dearie stand straight up and the trembling leave her .
She step back , and I could see her face , white a the dead , but calm and resolve .
`` I have promise to marry you , Mark , and I will keep my word , '' she say .
The color come back to Isabella Clark 's face ; but Mark 's do not change .
`` Phillippa , '' say Owen , and the pain in his voice make my old heart ache bitter than ever , `` have you cease to love me ? ''
My dearie would have be more than human , if she could have resist the pleading in his tone .
She say no word , but just look at him for a moment .
We all saw the look ; her whole soul , full of love for Owen , show out in it .
Then she turn and stood by Mark .
Owen never say a word .
He go as white a death , and start for the door .
But again Mark Foster put himself in the way .
`` Wait , '' he say .
`` She have make her choice , a I know she would ; but I have yet to make mine .
And I choose to marry no woman whose love belong to another living man .
Phillippa , I think Owen Blair be dead , and I believe that , when you be my wife , I could win your love .
But I love you too well to make you miserable .
Go to the man you love -- you be free ! ''
`` And what be to become of me ? ''
wail Isabella .
`` Oh , you !
-- I have forget about you , '' say Mark , kind of weary-like .
He take a paper from his pocket , and drop it in the grate .
`` There be the mortgage .
That be all you care about , I think .
Good-morning . ''
He go out .
He be only a common fellow , but , somehow , just then he look every inch the gentleman .
I would have go after him and say something but -- the look on his face -- no , it be no time for my foolish old word !
Phillippa be cry , with her head on Owen 's shoulder .
Isabella Clark wait to see the mortgage burn up , and then she come to me in the hall , all smooth and smile again .
`` Really , it 's all very romantic , be n't it ?
I suppose it 's good a it be , all thing consider .
Mark behave splendidly , do n't he ?
Not many men would have do a he do . ''
For once in my life I agree with Isabella .
But I felt like have a good cry over it all -- and I have it .
I be glad for my dearie 's sake and Owen 's ; but Mark Foster have pay the price of their joy , and I know it have beggar him of happiness for life .
XV .
TANNIS OF THE FLATS Few people in Avonlea could understand why Elinor Blair have never marry .
She have be one of the most beautiful girl in our part of the Island and , a a woman of fifty , she be still very attractive .
In her youth she have have ever so many beau , a we of our generation well remember ; but , after her return from visit her brother Tom in the Canadian Northwest , more than twenty-five year ago , she have seem to withdraw within herself , keep all men at a safe , though friendly , distance .
She have be a gay , laugh girl when she go West ; she come back quiet and serious , with a shadowed look in her eye which time could not quite succeed in blot out .
Elinor have never talk much about her visit , except to describe the scenery and the life , which in that day be rough indeed .
Not even to me , who have grow up next door to her and who have always seem more a sister than a friend , do she speak of other than the mere commonplace .
But when Tom Blair make a fly trip back home , some ten year later , there be one or two of u to whom he relate the story of Jerome Carey , -- a story reveal only too well the reason for Elinor 's sad eye and utter indifference to masculine attention .
I can recall almost his exact word and the inflection of his voice , and I remember , too , that it seem to me a far cry from the tranquil , pleasant scene before u , on that lovely summer day , to the elemental life of the Flats .
The Flats be a forlorn little trading station fifteen mile up the river from Prince Albert , with a scanty population of half-breed and three white men .
When Jerome Carey be send to take charge of the telegraph office there , he curse his fate in the picturesque language permissible in the far Northwest .
Not that Carey be a profane man , even a men go in the West .
He be an English gentleman , and he keep both his life and his vocabulary pretty clean .
But -- the Flats !
Outside of the ragged cluster of log shack , which comprise the settlement , there be always a shifting fringe of teepee where the Indians , who drift down from the Reservation , camp with their dog and squaw and papoose .
There be standpoint from which Indians be interesting , but they can not be say to offer congenial social attraction .
For three week after Carey go to the Flats he be lonely than he have ever imagine it possible to be , even in the Great Lone Land .
If it have not be for teach Paul Dumont the telegraphic code , Carey believe he would have be drive to suicide in self-defense .
The telegraphic importance of the Flats consist in the fact that it be the starting point of three telegraph line to remote trading post up North .
Not many message come therefrom , but the few that do come generally amount to something worth while .
Days and even week would pass without a single one be click to the Flats .
Carey be debar from talk over the wire to the Prince Albert man for the reason that they be on officially bad term .
He blame the latter for his transfer to the Flats .
Carey sleep in a loft over the office , and get his meal a Joe Esquint 's , across the `` street . ''
Joe Esquint 's wife be a good cook , a cook go among the breed , and Carey soon become a great pet of hers .
Carey have a habit of become a pet with woman .
He have the `` way '' that have to be bear in a man and can never be acquire .
Besides , he be as handsome a clean-cut feature , deep-set , dark-blue eye , fair curl and six foot of muscle could make him .
Mrs. Joe Esquint think that his mustache be the most wonderfully beautiful thing , in it line , that she have ever see .
Fortunately , Mrs. Joe be so old and fat and ugly that even the malicious and inveterate gossip of skulk breed and Indians , squat over teepee fire , could not hint at anything questionable in the relation between her and Carey .
But it be a different matter with Tannis Dumont .
Tannis come home from the academy at Prince Albert early in July , when Carey have be at the Flats a month and have exhaust all the few novelty of his position .
Paul Dumont have already become so expert at the code that his mistake no longer afford Carey any fun , and the latter be get desperate .
He have serious intention of throw up the business altogether , and betaking himself to an Alberta ranch , where at least one would have the excitement of rope horse .
When he saw Tannis Dumont he think he would hang on awhile longer , anyway .
Tannis be the daughter of old Auguste Dumont , who keep the one small store at the Flats , live in the one frame house that the place boast , and be repute to be worth an amount of money which , in half-breed eye , be a colossal fortune .
Old Auguste be black and ugly and notoriously bad-tempered .
But Tannis be a beauty .
Tannis ' great-grandmother have be a Cree squaw who marry a French trapper .
The son of this union become in due time the father of Auguste Dumont .
Auguste marry a woman whose mother be a French half-breed and whose father be a pure-bred Highland Scotchman .
The result of this atrocious mixture be it justification -- Tannis of the Flats -- who look a if all the blood of all the Howards might be run in her vein .
But , after all , the dominant current in those same vein be from the race of plain and prairie .
The practiced eye detect it in the slender stateliness of carriage , in the graceful , yet voluptuous , curve of the lithe body , in the smallness and delicacy of hand and foot , in the purple sheen on straight-falling mass of blue-black hair , and , more than all else , in the long , dark eye , full and soft , yet alight with a slumbering fire .
France , too , be responsible for somewhat in Tannis .
It give her a light step in place of the stealthy half-breed shuffle , it arch her red upper lip into a more tremulous bow , it lend a note of laughter to her voice and a sprightly wit to her tongue .
As for her red-headed Scotch grandfather , he have bequeath her a somewhat white skin and ruddy bloom than be usually find in the breed .
Old Auguste be mightily proud of Tannis .
He send her to school for four year in Prince Albert , bound that his girl should have the best .
A High School course and considerable mingling in the social life of the town -- for old Auguste be a man to be conciliate by astute politician , since he control some two or three hundred half-breed vote -- send Tannis home to the Flats with a very thin , but very deceptive , veneer of culture and civilization overlie the primitive passion and idea of her nature .
Carey saw only the beauty and the veneer .
He make the mistake of think that Tannis be what she seem to be -- a fairly well-educated , up-to-date young woman with whom a friendly flirtation be just what it be with white womankind -- the pleasant amusement of an hour or season .
It be a mistake -- a very big mistake .
Tannis understand something of piano playing , something less of grammar and Latin , and something less still of social prevarication .
But she understand absolutely nothing of flirtation .
You can never get an Indian to see the sense of Platonics .
Carey find the Flats quite tolerable after the homecoming of Tannis .
He soon fell into the habit of drop into the Dumont house to spend the evening , talk with Tannis in the parlor -- which apartment be amazingly well do for a place like the Flats -- Tannis have not study Prince Albert parlor four year for nothing -- or play violin and piano duet with her .
When music and conversation pal , they go for long gallop over the prairie together .
Tannis rode to perfection , and manage her bad-tempered brute of a pony with a skill and grace that make Carey applaud her .
She be glorious on horseback .
Sometimes he grow tire of the prairie and then he and Tannis paddle themselves over the river in Nitchie Joe 's dug-out , and land on the old trail that strike straight into the wooded belt of the Saskatchewan valley , lead north to trading post on the frontier of civilization .
There they ramble under huge pine , hoary with the age of century , and Carey talk to Tannis about England and quote poetry to her .
Tannis like poetry ; she have study it at school , and understand it fairly well .
But once she tell Carey that she think it a long , round-about way of say what you could say just as well in about a dozen plain word .
Carey laugh .
He like to evoke those little speech of hers .
They sound very clever , drop from such arch , ripely-tinted lip .
If you have tell Carey that he be play with fire he would have laugh at you .
In the first place he be not in the slight degree in love with Tannis -- he merely admire and like her .
In the second place , it never occur to him that Tannis might be in love with him .
Why , he have never attempt any love-making with her !
And , above all , he be obsess with that aforesaid fatal idea that Tannis be like the woman he have associate with all his life , in reality as well a in appearance .
He do not know enough of the racial characteristic to understand .
But , if Carey think his relationship with Tannis be that of friendship merely , he be the only one at the Flats who do think so .
All the half-breed and quarter-breeds and any-fractional breed there believe that he mean to marry Tannis .
There would have be nothing surprise to them in that .
They do not know that Carey 's second cousin be a baronet , and they would not have understood that it need make any difference , if they have .
They think that rich old Auguste 's heiress , who have be to school for four year in Prince Albert , be a catch for anybody .
Old Auguste himself shrug his shoulder over it and be well-pleased enough .
An Englishman be a prize by way of a husband for a half-breed girl , even if he be only a telegraph operator .
Young Paul Dumont worship Carey , and the half-Scotch mother , who might have understood , be dead .
In all the Flats there be but two people who disapprove of the match they think an assured thing .
One of these be the little priest , Father Gabriel .
He like Tannis , and he like Carey ; but he shake his head dubiously when he hear the gossip of the shack and teepee .
Religions might mingle , but the different blood -- ah , it be not the right thing !
Tannis be a good girl , and a beautiful one ; but she be no fit mate for the fair , thorough-bred Englishman .
Father Gabriel wish fervently that Jerome Carey might soon be transfer elsewhere .
He even go to Prince Albert and do a little wire-pulling on his own account , but nothing come of it .
He be on the wrong side of politics .
The other malcontent be Lazarre M & eacute ; rim & eacute ; e , a lazy , besotted French half-breed , who be , after his fashion , in love with Tannis .
He could never have get her , and he know it -- old Auguste and young Paul would have incontinently riddle him with bullet have he venture near the house a a suitor , -- but he hat Carey none the less , and watch for a chance to do him an ill-turn .
There be no bad enemy in all the world than a half-breed .
Your true Indian be bad enough , but his diluted descendant be ten time worse .
As for Tannis , she love Carey with all her heart , and that be all there be about it .
If Elinor Blair have never go to Prince Albert there be no know what might have happen , after all .
Carey , so powerful in propinquity , might even have end by learn to love Tannis and marry her , to his own worldly undoing .
But Elinor do go to Prince Albert , and her go end all thing for Tannis of the Flats .
Carey meet her one evening in September , when he have ride into town to attend a dance , leave Paul Dumont in charge of the telegraph office .
Elinor have just arrive in Prince Albert on a visit to Tom , to which she have be look forward during the five year since he have marry and move out West from Avonlea .
As I have already say , she be very beautiful at that time , and Carey fell in love with her at the first moment of their meeting .
During the next three week he go to town nine time and call at the Dumonts ' only once .
There be no more ride and walk with Tannis .
This be not intentional neglect on his part .
He have simply forget all about her .
The breed surmise a lover 's quarrel , but Tannis understood .
There be another woman back there in town .
It would be quite impossible to put on paper any adequate idea of her emotion at this stage .
One night , she follow Carey when he go to Prince Albert , rid out of earshot , behind him on her plain pony , but keep him in sight .
Lazarre , in a fit of jealousy , have follow Tannis , spy on her until she start back to the Flats .
After that he watch both Carey and Tannis incessantly , and month later have tell Tom all he have learn through his low sneaking .
Tannis trail Carey to the Blair house , on the bluff above the town , and saw him tie his horse at the gate and enter .
She , too , tie her pony to a poplar , low down , and then creep stealthily through the willow at the side of the house until she be close to the window .
Through one of them she could see Carey and Elinor .
The half-breed girl crouch down in the shadow and glare at her rival .
She saw the pretty , fair-tinted face , the fluffy coronal of golden hair , the blue , laugh eye of the woman whom Jerome Carey love , and she realize very plainly that there be nothing leave to hope for .
She , Tannis of the Flats , could never compete with that other .
It be well to know so much , at least .
After a time , she creep softly away , loose her pony , and lash him mercilessly with her whip through the street of the town and out the long , dusty river trail .
A man turn and look after her a she tear past a brightly light store on Water Street .
`` That be Tannis of the Flats , '' he say to a companion .
`` She be in town last winter , go to school -- a beauty and a bit of the devil , like all those breed girl .
What in thunder be she rid like that for ? ''
One day , a fortnight later , Carey go over the river alone for a ramble up the northern trail , and an undisturbed dream of Elinor .
When he come back Tannis be stand at the canoe landing , under a pine tree , in a rain of finely sift sunlight .
She be wait for him and she say , with any preface : `` Mr. Carey , why do you never come to see me , now ? ''
Carey flush like any girl .
Her tone and look make him feel very uncomfortable .
He remember , self-reproachfully , that he must have seem very neglectful , and he stammer something about have be busy .
`` Not very busy , '' say Tannis , with her terrible directness .
`` It be not that .
It be because you be go to Prince Albert to see a white woman ! ''
Even in his embarrassment Carey note that this be the first time he have ever hear Tannis use the expression , `` a white woman , '' or any other that would indicate her sense of a difference between herself and the dominant race .
He understand , at the same moment , that this girl be not to be trifle with -- that she would have the truth out of him , first or last .
But he felt indescribably foolish .
`` I suppose so , '' he answer lamely .
`` And what about me ? ''
ask Tannis .
When you come to think of it , this be an embarrassing question , especially for Carey , who have believe that Tannis understand the game , and play it for it own sake , a he do .
`` I do n't understand you , Tannis , '' he say hurriedly .
`` You have make me love you , '' say Tannis .
The word sound flat enough on paper .
They do not sound flat to Tom , a repeat by Lazarre , and they sound anything but flat to Carey , hurl at him a they be by a woman tremble with all the passion of her savage ancestry .
Tannis have justify her criticism of poetry .
She have say her half-dozen word , instinct with all the despair and pain and wild appeal that all the poetry in the world have ever express .
They make Carey feel like a scoundrel .
All at once he realize how impossible it would be to explain matter to Tannis , and that he would make a still big fool of himself , if he try .
`` I be very sorry , '' he stammer , like a whipped schoolboy .
`` It be no matter , '' interrupt Tannis violently .
`` What difference do it make about me -- a half-breed girl ?
We breed girl be only bear to amuse the white men .
That be so -- be it not ?
Then , when they be tire of u , they push u aside and go back to their own kind .
Oh , it be very well .
But I will not forget -- my father and brother will not forget .
They will make you sorry to some purpose ! ''
She turn , and stalk away to her canoe .
He wait under the pine until she cross the river ; then he , too , go miserably home .
What a mess he have contrive to make of thing !
Poor Tannis !
How handsome she have look in her fury -- and how much like a squaw !
The racial mark always come out plainly under the stress of emotion , a Tom note later .
Her threat do not disturb him .
If young Paul and old Auguste make thing unpleasant for him , he think himself more than a match for them .
It be the thought of the suffering he have bring upon Tannis that worry him .
He have not , to be sure , be a villain ; but he have be a fool , and that be almost a bad , under some circumstance .
The Dumonts , however , do not trouble him .
After all , Tannis ' four year in Prince Albert have not be altogether waste .
She know that white girl do not mix their male relatives up in a vendetta when a man cease call on them -- and she have nothing else to complain of that could be put in word .
After some reflection she conclude to hold her tongue .
She even laugh when old Auguste ask her what be up between her and her fellow , and say she have grow tire of him .
Old Auguste shrug his shoulder resignedly .
It be just as well , maybe .
Those English son-in-law sometimes give themselves too many air .
So Carey rode often to town and Tannis bid her time , and plot futile scheme of revenge , and Lazarre Merimee scowl and get drunk -- and life go on at the Flats a usual , until the last week in October , when a big wind and rainstorm swept over the northland .
It be a bad night .
The wire be down between the Flats and Prince Albert and all communication with the outside world be cut off .
Over at Joe Esquint 's the breed be have a carouse in honor of Joe 's birthday .
Paul Dumont have go over , and Carey be alone in the office , smoke lazily and dream of Elinor .
Suddenly , above the plash of rain and whistle of wind , he hear outcry in the street .
Running to the door he be meet by Mrs. Joe Esquint , who grasp him breathlessly .
`` Meestair Carey -- come quick !
Lazarre , he kill Paul -- they fight ! ''
Carey , with a smothered oath , rush across the street .
He have be afraid of something of the sort , and have advise Paul not to go , for those half-breed carouse almost always end in a free fight .
He burst into the kitchen at Joe Esquint 's , to find a circle of mute spectator range around the room and Paul and Lazarre in a clinch in the center .
Carey be relieve to find it be only an affair of fist .
He promptly hurl himself at the combatant and drag Paul away , while Mrs. Joe Esquint -- Joe himself be dead-drunk in a corner -- fling her fat arm about Lazarre and hold him back .
`` Stop this , '' say Carey sternly .
`` Let me get at him , '' foam Paul .
`` He insult my sister .
He say that you -- let me get at him ! ''
He could not writhe free from Carey 's iron grip .
Lazarre , with a snarl like a wolf , send Mrs. Joe spinning , and rush at Paul .
Carey strike out a best he could , and Lazarre go reel back against the table .
It go over with a crash and the light go out !
Mrs. Joe 's shriek might have bring the roof down .
In the confusion that ensue , two pistol shot ring out sharply .
There be a cry , a groan , a fall -- then a rush for the door .
When Mrs. Joe Esquint 's sister-in-law , Marie , dash in with another lamp , Mrs. Joe be still shriek , Paul Dumont be lean sickly against the wall with a dangling arm , and Carey lay face downward on the floor , with blood trickle from under him .
Marie Esquint be a woman of nerve .
She tell Mrs. Joe to shut up , and she turn Carey over .
He be conscious , but seem dazed and could not help himself .
Marie put a coat under his head , tell Paul to lie down on the bench , order Mrs. Joe to get a bed ready , and go for the doctor .
It happen that there be a doctor at the Flats that night -- a Prince Albert man who have be up at the Reservation , fix up some sick Indians , and have be stormstaid at old Auguste 's on his way back .
Marie soon return with the doctor , old Auguste , and Tannis .
Carey be carry in and lay on Mrs. Esquint 's bed .
The doctor make a brief examination , while Mrs. Joe sit on the floor and howl at the top of her lung .
Then he shake his head .
`` Shot in the back , '' he say briefly .
`` How long ? ''
ask Carey , understanding .
`` Perhaps till morning , '' answer the doctor .
Mrs. Joe give a louder howl than ever at this , and Tannis come and stood by the bed .
The doctor , know that he could do nothing for Carey , hurry into the kitchen to attend to Paul , who have a badly shattered arm , and Marie go with him .
Carey look stupidly at Tannis .
`` Send for her , '' he say .
Tannis smile cruelly .
`` There be no way .
The wire be down , and there be no man at the Flats who will go to town to-night , '' she answer .
`` My God , I MUST see her before I die , '' burst out Carey pleadingly .
`` Where be Father Gabriel ?
HE will go . ''
`` The priest go to town last night and have not come back , '' say Tannis .
Carey groan and shut his eye .
If Father Gabriel be away , there be indeed no one to go .
Old Auguste and the doctor could not leave Paul and he know well that no breed of them all at the Flats would turn out on such a night , even if they be not , one and all , mortally scar of be mix up in the law and justice that would be sure to follow the affair .
He must die without see Elinor .
Tannis look inscrutably down on the pale face on Mrs. Joe Esquint 's dirty pillow .
Her immobile feature give no sign of the conflict rag within her .
After a short space she turn and go out , shut the door softly on the wounded man and Mrs. Joe , whose howl have now simmer down to whine .
In the next room , Paul be cry out with pain a the doctor work on his arm , but Tannis do not go to him .
Instead , she slip out and hurry down the stormy street to old Auguste 's stable .
Five minute later she be gallop down the black , wind-lashed river trail , on her way to town , to bring Elinor Blair to her lover 's deathbed .
I hold that no woman ever do anything more unselfish than this deed of Tannis !
For the sake of love she put under her foot the jealousy and hatred that have clamor at her heart .
She hold , not only revenge , but the dearer joy of watch by Carey to the last , in the hollow of her hand , and she cast both away that the man she love might draw his die breath somewhat easy .
In a white woman the deed would have be merely commendable .
In Tannis of the Flats , with her ancestry and tradition , it be lofty self-sacrifice .
It be eight o'clock when Tannis leave the Flats ; it be ten when she draw bridle before the house on the bluff .
Elinor be regale Tom and his wife with Avonlea gossip when the maid come to the door .
`` Pleas 'm , there 's a breed girl out on the verandah and she 's ask for Miss Blair . ''
Elinor go out wonderingly , follow by Tom .
Tannis , whip in hand , stood by the open door , with the stormy night behind her , and the warm ruby light of the hall lamp showering over her white face and the long rope of drenched hair that fell from her bare head .
She look wild enough .
`` Jerome Carey be shoot in a quarrel at Joe Esquint 's to-night , '' she say .
`` He be die -- he want you -- I have come for you . ''
Elinor give a little cry , and steady herself on Tom 's shoulder .
Tom say he know he make some exclamation of horror .
He have never approve of Carey 's attention to Elinor , but such news be enough to shock anybody .
He be determine , however , that Elinor should not go out in such a night and to such a scene , and tell Tannis so in no uncertain term .
`` I come through the storm , '' say Tannis , contemptuously .
`` Can not she do as much for him a I can ? ''
The good , old Island blood in Elinor 's vein show to some purpose .
`` Yes , '' she answer firmly .
`` No , Tom , do n't object -- I must go .
Get my horse -- and your own . ''
Ten minute later three rider gallop down the bluff road and take the river trail .
Fortunately the wind be at their back and the bad of the storm be over .
Still , it be a wild , black ride enough .
Tom rode , curse softly under his breath .
He do not like the whole thing -- Carey do to death in some low half-breed shack , this handsome , sullen girl come a his messenger , this nightmare ride , through wind and rain .
It all savor too much of melodrama , even for the Northland , where people still do thing in a primitive way .
He heartily wish Elinor have never leave Avonlea .
It be past twelve when they reach the Flats .
Tannis be the only one who seem to be able to think coherently .
It be she who tell Tom where to take the horse and then lead Elinor to the room where Carey be die .
The doctor be sit by the bedside and Mrs. Joe be curl up in a corner , sniffle to herself .
Tannis take her by the shoulder and turn her , none too gently , out of the room .
The doctor , understanding , leave at once .
As Tannis shut the door she saw Elinor sink on her knee by the bed , and Carey 's trembling hand go out to her head .
Tannis sit down on the floor outside of the door and wrap herself up in a shawl Marie Esquint have drop .
In that attitude she look exactly like a squaw , and all comer and goer , even old Auguste , who be hunt for her , think she be one , and leave her undisturbed .
She watch there until dawn come whitely up over the prairie and Jerome Carey die .
She know when it happen by Elinor 's cry .
Tannis spring up and rush in .
She be too late for even a parting look .
The girl take Carey 's hand in hers , and turn to the weep Elinor with a cold dignity .
`` Now go , '' she say .
`` You have him in life to the very last .
He be mine now . ''
`` There must be some arrangement make , '' falter Elinor .
`` My father and brother will make all arrangement , a you call them , '' say Tannis steadily .
`` He have no near relative in the world -- none at all in Canada -- he tell me so .
You may send out a Protestant minister from town , if you like ; but he will be bury here at the Flats and his grave with be mine -- all mine !
Go ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Kilmeny_of_the_Orchard.txt.out
KILMENY OF THE ORCHARD CHAPTER I .
THE THOUGHTS OF YOUTH The sunshine of a day in early spring , honey pale and honey sweet , be shower over the red brick building of Queenslea College and the ground about them , throw through the bare , bud maple and elm , delicate , evasive etching of gold and brown on the path , and coax into life the daffodil that be peer greenly and perkily up under the window of the co-ed ' dressing-room .
A young April wind , a fresh and sweet a if it have be blow over the field of memory instead of through dingy street , be purr in the tree-tops and whip the loose tendril of the ivy network which cover the front of the main building .
It be a wind that sing of many thing , but what it sing to each listener be only what be in that listener 's heart .
To the college student who have just be cap and diplomad by `` Old Charlie , '' the grave president of Queenslea , in the presence of an admire throng of parent and sister , sweetheart and friend , it sing , perchance , of glad hope and shin success and high achievement .
It sang of the dream of youth that may never be quite fulfilled , but be well worth the dreaming for all that .
God help the man who have never know such dream -- who , a he leave his alma mater , be not already rich in aerial castle , the proprietor of many a spacious estate in Spain .
He have miss his birthright .
The crowd stream out of the entrance hall and scatter over the campus , fray off into the many street beyond .
Eric Marshall and David Baker walk away together .
The former have graduate in Arts that day at the head of his class ; the latter have come to see the graduation , nearly burst with pride in Eric 's success .
Between these two be an old and tried and endure friendship , although David be ten year old than Eric , a the mere tale of year go , and a hundred year older in knowledge of the struggle and difficulty of life which age a man far more quickly and effectually than the passing of time .
Physically the two men bore no resemblance to one another , although they be second cousin .
Eric Marshall , tall , broad-shouldered , sinewy , walk with a free , easy stride , which be somehow suggestive of reserve strength and power , be one of those men regard whom less-favoured mortal be tempt seriously to wonder why all the gift of fortune should be shower on one individual .
He be not only clever and good to look upon , but he possess that indefinable charm of personality which be quite independent of physical beauty or mental ability .
He have steady , grayish-blue eye , dark chestnut hair with a glint of gold in it wave when the sunlight struck it , and a chin that give the world assurance of a chin .
He be a rich man 's son , with a clean young manhood behind him and splendid prospect before him .
He be consider a practical sort of fellow , utterly guiltless of romantic dream and vision of any sort .
`` I be afraid Eric Marshall will never do one quixotic thing , '' say a Queenslea professor , who have a habit of utter rather mysterious epigram , `` but if he ever do it will supply the one thing lacking in him . ''
David Baker be a short , stocky fellow with an ugly , irregular , charm face ; his eye be brown and keen and secretive ; his mouth have a comical twist which become sarcastic , or tease , or win , a he will .
His voice be generally a soft and musical a a woman 's ; but some few who have see David Baker righteously angry and hear the tone which then issue from his lip be in no hurry to have the experience repeat .
He be a doctor -- a specialist in trouble of the throat and voice -- and he be begin to have a national reputation .
He be on the staff of the Queenslea Medical College and it be whisper that before long he would be call to fill an important vacancy at McGill .
He have win his way to success through difficulty and drawback which would have daunt most men .
In the year Eric be bear David Baker be an errand boy in the big department store of Marshall & Company .
Thirteen year later he graduate with high honor from Queenslea Medical College .
Mr. Marshall have give him all the help which David 's sturdy pride could be induce to accept , and now he insist on send the young man abroad for a post-graduate course in London and Germany .
David Baker have eventually repay every cent Mr. Marshall have expend on him ; but he never cease to cherish a passionate gratitude to the kind and generous man ; and he love that man 's son with a love surpass that of brother .
He have follow Eric 's college course with keen , watchful interest .
It be his wish that Eric should take up the study of law or medicine now that he be through Arts ; and he be greatly disappointed that Eric should have finally make up his mind to go into business with his father .
`` It 's a clean waste of your talent , '' he grumble , a they walk home from the college .
`` You 'd win fame and distinction in law -- that glib tongue of yours be mean for a lawyer and it be sheer fly in the face of Providence to devote it to commercial us -- a flat crossing of the purpose of destiny .
Where be your ambition , man ? ''
`` In the right place , '' answer Eric , with his ready laugh .
`` It be not your kind , perhaps , but there be room and need for all kind in this lusty young country of ours .
Yes , I be go into the business .
In the first place , it have be father 's cherish desire ever since I be bear , and it would hurt him pretty badly if I back out now .
He wish me to take an Arts course because he believe that every man should have a liberal an education a he can afford to get , but now that I have have it he want me in the firm . ''
`` He would n't oppose you if he think you really want to go in for something else . ''
`` Not he .
But I do n't really want to -- that 's the point , David , man .
You hate a business life so much yourself that you ca n't get it into your bless noddle that another man might like it .
There be many lawyer in the world -- too many , perhaps -- but there be never too many good honest men of business , ready to do clean big thing for the betterment of humanity and the upbuilding of their country , to plan great enterprise and carry them through with brain and courage , to manage and control , to aim high and strike one 's aim .
There , I 'm wax eloquent , so I 'd better stop .
But ambition , man !
Why , I 'm full of it -- it 's bubble in every pore of me .
I mean to make the department store of Marshall & Company famous from ocean to ocean .
Father start in life a a poor boy from a Nova Scotian farm .
He have build up a business that have a provincial reputation .
I mean to carry it on .
In five year it shall have a maritime reputation , in ten , a Canadian .
I want to make the firm of Marshall & Company stand for something big in the commercial interest of Canada .
Is n't that a honourable an ambition a try to make black seem white in a court of law , or discover some new disease with a harrowing name to torment poor creature who might otherwise die peacefully in blissful ignorance of what ail them ? ''
`` When you begin to make poor joke it be time to stop argue with you , '' say David , with a shrug of his fat shoulder .
`` Go your own gait and dree your own weird .
I 'd as soon expect success in try to storm the citadel single-handed a in try to turn you from any course about which you have once make up your mind .
Whew , this street take it out of a fellow !
What could have possess our ancestor to run a town up the side of a hill ?
I 'm not so slim and active a I be on MY graduation day ten year ago .
By the way , what a lot of co-ed be in your class -- twenty , if I count right .
When I graduate there be only two lady in our class and they be the pioneer of their sex at Queenslea .
They be well past their first youth , very grim and angular and serious ; and they could never have be on speaking term with a mirror in their best day .
But mark you , they be excellent female -- oh , very excellent .
Times have change with a vengeance , judge from the line-up of co-eds to-day .
There be one girl there who ca n't be a day over eighteen -- and she look a if she be make out of gold and roseleaves and dewdrop . ''
`` The oracle speak in poetry , '' laugh Eric .
`` That be Florence Percival , who lead the class in mathematics , a I 'm a living man .
By many she be consider the beauty of her class .
I ca n't say that such be my opinion .
I do n't greatly care for that blonde , babyish style of loveliness -- I prefer Agnes Campion .
Did you notice her -- the tall , dark girl with the rope of hair and a sort of crimson , velvety bloom on her face , who take honour in philosophy ? ''
`` I DID notice her , '' say David emphatically , dart a keen side glance at his friend .
`` I notice her most particularly and critically -- for someone whisper her name behind me and couple it with the exceedingly interesting information that Miss Campion be suppose to be the future Mrs. Eric Marshall .
Whereupon I star at her with all my eye . ''
`` There be no truth in that report , '' say Eric in a tone of annoyance .
`` Agnes and I be the best of friend and nothing more .
I like and admire her more than any woman I know ; but if the future Mrs. Eric Marshall exist in the flesh I have n't meet her yet .
I have n't even start out to look for her -- and do n't intend to for some year to come .
I have something else to think of , '' he conclude , in a tone of contempt , for which anyone might have know he would be punish sometime if Cupid be not deaf as well a blind .
`` You 'll meet the lady of the future some day , '' say David dryly .
`` And in spite of your scorn I venture to predict that if fate do n't bring her before long you 'll very soon start out to look for her .
A word of advice , oh , son of your mother .
When you go court take your common sense with you . ''
`` Do you think I shall be likely to leave it behind ? ''
ask Eric amusedly .
`` Well , I mistrust you , '' say David , sagely wag his head .
`` The Lowland Scotch part of you be all right , but there 's a Celtic streak in you , from that little Highland grandmother of yours , and when a man have that there 's never any knowing where it will break out , or what dance it will lead him , especially when it come to this love-making business .
You be just as likely a not to lose your head over some little fool or shrew for the sake of her outward favour and make yourself miserable for life .
When you pick you a wife please remember that I shall reserve the right to pass a candid opinion on her . ''
`` Pass all the opinion you like , but it be MY opinion , and mine only , which will matter in the long run , '' retort Eric .
`` Confound you , yes , you stubborn offshoot of a stubborn breed , '' growl David , look at him affectionately .
`` I know that , and that be why I 'll never feel at ease about you until I see you marry to the right sort of a girl .
She 's not hard to find .
Nine out of ten girl in this country of ours be fit for king ' palace .
But the tenth always have to be reckon with . ''
`` You be as bad a Clever Alice in the fairy tale who worry over the future of her unborn child , '' protest Eric . ''
Clever Alice have be very unjustly laugh at , '' say David gravely .
`` We doctor know that .
Perhaps she overdo the worrying business a little , but she be perfectly right in principle .
If people worry a little more about their unborn child -- at least , to the extent of provide a proper heritage , physically , mentally , and morally , for them -- and then stop worry about them after they ARE bear , this world would be a very much pleasanter place to live in , and the human race would make more progress in a generation than it have do in recorded history . ''
`` Oh , if you be go to mount your dearly beloved hobby of heredity I be not go to argue with you , David , man .
But a for the matter of urge me to hasten and marry me a wife , why do n't you '' -- It be on Eric 's lip to say , `` Why do n't you get marry to a girl of the right sort yourself and set me a good example ? ''
But he check himself .
He know that there be an old sorrow in David Baker 's life which be not to be unduly jar by the jest even of privileged friendship .
He change his question to , `` Why do n't you leave this on the knee of the god where it properly belong ?
I think you be a firm believer in predestination , David . ''
`` Well , so I be , to a certain extent , '' say David cautiously .
`` I believe , a an excellent old aunt of mine use to say , that what be to be will be and what be n't to be happen sometimes .
And it be precisely such unchancy happening that make the scheme of thing go wrong .
I dare say you think me an old fogy , Eric ; but I know something more of the world than you do , and I believe , with Tennyson 's Arthur , that ` there 's no more subtle master under heaven than be the maiden passion for a maid . '
I want to see you safely anchor to the love of some good woman as soon a may be , that 's all .
I 'm rather sorry Miss Campion be n't your lady of the future .
I like her look , that I do .
She be good and strong and true -- and have the eye of a woman who could love in a way that would be worth while .
Moreover , she 's well-born , well-bred , and well-educated -- three very indispensable thing when it come to choose a woman to fill your mother 's place , friend of mine ! ''
`` I agree with you , '' say Eric carelessly .
`` I could not marry any woman who do not fulfill those condition .
But , a I have say , I be not in love with Agnes Campion -- and it would n't be of any use if I be .
She be as good a engage to Larry West .
You remember West ? ''
`` That thin , leggy fellow you chummed with so much your first two year in Queenslea ?
Yes , what have become of him ? ''
`` He have to drop out after his second year for financial reason .
He be work his own way through college , you know .
For the past two year he have be teach school in some out-of-the-way place over in Prince Edward Island .
He be n't any too well , poor fellow -- never be very strong and have study remorselessly .
I have n't hear from him since February .
He say then that he be afraid he be n't go to be able to stick it out till the end of the school year .
I hope Larry wo n't break down .
He be a fine fellow and worthy even of Agnes Campion .
Well , here we be .
Coming in , David ? ''
`` Not this afternoon -- have n't get time .
I must mosey up to the North End to see a man who have get a lovely throat .
Nobody can find out what be the matter .
He have puzzle all the doctor .
He have puzzle me , but I 'll find out what be wrong with him if he 'll only live long enough . ''
CHAPTER II .
A LETTER OF DESTINY Eric , find that his father have not yet return from the college , go into the library and sit down to read a letter he have pick up from the hall table .
It be from Larry West , and after the first few line Eric 's face lose the absent look it have wear and assume an expression of interest .
`` I be write to ask a favour of you , Marshall , '' write West .
`` The fact be , I 've fall into the hand of the Philistines -- that be to say , the doctor .
I 've not be feel very fit all winter but I 've hold on , hop to finish out the year .
`` Last week my landlady -- who be a saint in spectacle and calico -- look at me one morning at the breakfast table and say , VERY gently , ` You must go to town to-morrow , Master , and see a doctor about yourself . '
`` I go and do not stand upon the order of my go .
Mrs. Williamson be She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed .
She have an inconvenient habit of make you realize that she be exactly right , and that you would be all kind of a fool if you do n't take her advice .
You feel that what she think to-day you will think to-morrow .
`` In Charlottetown I consult a doctor .
He punch and pound me , and poke thing at me and listen at the other end of them ; and finally he say I must stop work ` immejutly and to onct ' and hie me straightway to a climate not afflict with the north-east wind of Prince Edward Island in the spring .
I be not to be allow to do any work until the fall .
Such be his dictum and Mrs. Williamson enforce it .
`` I shall teach this week out and then the spring vacation of three week begin .
I want you to come over and take my place a pedagogue in the Lindsay school for the last week in May and the month of June .
The school year end then and there will be plenty of teacher look for the place , but just now I can not get a suitable substitute .
I have a couple of pupil who be prepare to try the Queen 's Academy entrance examination , and I do n't like to leave them in the lurch or hand them over to the tender mercy of some third-class teacher who know little Latin and less Greek .
Come over and take the school till the end of the term , you pet son of luxury .
It will do you a world of good to learn how rich a man feel when he be earn twenty-five dollar a month by his own unaided effort !
`` Seriously , Marshall , I hope you can come , for I do n't know any other fellow I can ask .
The work be n't hard , though you 'll likely find it monotonous .
Of course , this little north-shore farming settlement be n't a very lively place .
The rising and setting of the sun be the most exciting event of the average day .
But the people be very kind and hospitable ; and Prince Edward Island in the month of June be such a thing a you do n't often see except in happy dream .
There be some trout in the pond and you 'll always find an old salt at the harbour ready and willing to take you out cod-fishing or lobstering .
`` I 'll bequeath you my board house .
You 'll find it comfortable and not far from the school than a good constitutional .
Mrs. Williamson be the dear soul alive ; and she be one of those old-fashioned cook who fee you on feast of fat thing and whose price be above ruby .
`` Her husband , Robert , or Bob , a he be commonly call despite his sixty year , be quite a character in his way .
He be an amuse old gossip , with a turn for racy comment and a finger in everybody 's pie .
He know everything about everybody in Lindsay for three generation back .
`` They have no living child , but Old Bob have a black cat which be his especial pride and darling .
The name of this animal be Timothy and a such he must always be call and refer to .
Never , a you value Robert 's good opinion , let him hear you speak of his pet a ` the cat , ' or even a ` Tim . '
You will never be forgiven and he will not consider you a fit person to have charge of the school .
`` You shall have my room , a little place over the kitchen , with a ceiling that follow the slant of the roof down one side , against which you will bump your head time innumerable until you learn to remember that it be there , and a look glass which will make one of your eye as small a a pea and the other as big a an orange .
`` But to compensate for these disadvantage the supply of towel be generous and unexceptionable ; and there be a window whence you will daily behold an occidental view over Lindsay Harbour and the gulf beyond which be an unspeakable miracle of beauty .
The sun be set over it a I write and I see such a sea of glass mingle with fire a might have figure in the vision of the Patmian seer .
A vessel be sail away into the gold and crimson and pearl of the horizon ; the big revolving light on the tip of the headland beyond the harbour have just be light and be wink and flash like a beacon , '' ` O'er the foam Of perilous sea in faerie land forlorn . ' ''
`` Wire me if you can come ; and if you can , report for duty on the twenty-third of May . ''
Mr. Marshall , Senior , come in , just a Eric be thoughtfully fold up his letter .
The former look more like a benevolent old clergyman or philanthropist than the keen , shrewd , somewhat hard , although just and honest , man of business that he really be .
He have a round , rosy face , fringe with white whisker , a fine head of long white hair , and a pursed-up mouth .
Only in his blue eye be a twinkle that would have make any man who design get the good of him in a bargain think twice before he make the attempt .
It be easily see that Eric must have inherit his personal beauty and distinction of form from his mother , whose picture hung on the dark wall between the window .
She have die while still young , when Eric be a boy of ten .
During her lifetime she have be the object of the passionate devotion of both her husband and son ; and the fine , strong , sweet face of the picture be a testimony that she have be worthy of their love and reverence .
The same face , cast in a masculine mold , be repeat in Eric ; the chestnut hair grow off his forehead in the same way ; his eye be like hers , and in his grave mood they hold a similar expression , half brooding , half tender , in their depth .
Mr. Marshall be very proud of his son 's success in college , but he have no intention of let him see it .
He love this boy of his , with the dead mother 's eye , good than anything on earth , and all his hope and ambition be bind up in him .
`` Well , that fuss be over , thank goodness , '' he say testily , a he drop into his favourite chair .
`` Did n't you find the programme interesting ? ''
ask Eric absently .
`` Most of it be tommyrot , '' say his father .
`` The only thing I like be Charlie 's Latin prayer and those pretty little girl trot up to get their diploma .
Latin IS the language for pray in , I do believe , -- at least , when a man have a voice like Old Charlie 's .
There be such a sonorous roll to the word that the mere sound of them make me feel like get down on my marrow bone .
And then those girl be as pretty a pink , now be n't they ?
Agnes be the finest-looking of the lot in my opinion .
I hope it 's true that you 're court her , Eric ? ''
`` Confound it , father , '' say Eric , half irritably , half laughingly , `` have you and David Baker enter into a conspiracy to hound me into matrimony whether I will or no ? ''
`` I 've never say a word to David Baker on such a subject , '' protest Mr. Marshall .
`` Well , you be just as bad a he be .
He hector me all the way home from the college on the subject .
But why be you in such a hurry to have me marry , dad ? ''
`` Because I want a homemaker in this house as soon a may be .
There have never be one since your mother die .
I be tire of housekeeper .
And I want to see your child at my knee before I die , Eric , and I 'm an old man now . ''
`` Well , your wish be natural , father , '' say Eric gently , with a glance at his mother 's picture .
`` But I ca n't rush out and marry somebody off-hand , can I ?
And I fear it would n't exactly do to advertise for a wife , even in these day of commercial enterprise . ''
`` Is n't there ANYBODY you 're fond of ? ''
queried Mr. Marshall , with the patient air of a man who overlook the frivolous jest of youth .
`` No .
I never yet saw the woman who could make my heart beat any faster . ''
`` I do n't know what you young men be make of nowadays , '' growl his father .
`` I be in love half a dozen time before I be your age . ''
`` You might have be ` in love . '
But you never LOVED any woman until you meet my mother .
I know that , father .
And it do n't happen till you be pretty well on in life either . ''
`` You 're too hard to please .
That 's what 's the matter , that 's what 's the matter ! ''
`` Perhaps I be .
When a man have have a mother like mine his standard of womanly sweetness be apt to be pitch pretty high .
Let 's drop the subject , father .
Here , I want you to read this letter -- it 's from Larry . ''
`` Humph ! ''
grunt Mr. Marshall , when he have finish with it .
`` So Larry 's knock out at last -- always think he would be -- always expect it .
Sorry , too .
He be a decent fellow .
Well , be you go ? ''
`` Yes , I think so , if you do n't object . ''
`` You 'll have a pretty monotonous time of it , judge from his account of Lindsay . ''
`` Probably .
But I be not go over in search of excitement .
I 'm go to oblige Larry and have a look at the Island . ''
`` Well , it 's worth look at , some part of the year , '' concede Mr. Marshall .
`` When I 'm on Prince Edward Island in the summer I always understand an old Scotch Islander I meet once in Winnipeg .
He be always talk of ` the Island . '
Somebody once ask him , ` What island do you mean ? '
He simply LOOKED at that ignorant man .
Then he say , ` Why , Prince Edward Island , mon . .
WHAT OTHER ISLAND IS THERE ? '
Go if you 'd like to .
You need a rest after the grind of examination before settle down to business .
And mind you do n't get into any mischief , young sir . ''
`` Not much likelihood of that in a place like Lindsay , I fancy , '' laugh Eric .
`` Probably the devil find as much mischief for idle hand in Lindsay a anywhere else .
The bad tragedy I ever hear of happen on a backwoods farm , fifteen mile from a railroad and five from a store .
However , I expect your mother 's son to behave himself in the fear of God and man .
In all likelihood the bad thing that will happen to you over there will be that some misguided woman will put you to sleep in a spare room bed .
And if that do happen may the Lord have mercy on your soul ! ''
CHAPTER III .
THE MASTER OF LINDSAY SCHOOL One evening , a month later , Eric Marshall come out of the old , white-washed schoolhouse at Lindsay , and lock the door -- which be carve over with initial innumerable , and built of double plank in order that it might withstand all the assault and battery to which it might be subject .
Eric 's pupil have go home an hour before , but he have stay to solve some algebra problem , and correct some Latin exercise for his advanced student .
The sun be slant in warm yellow line through the thick grove of maple to the west of the building , and the dim green air beneath them burst into golden bloom .
A couple of sheep be nibble the lush grass in a far corner of the play-ground ; a cow-bell , somewhere in the maple wood , tinkle faintly and musically , on the still crystal air , which , in spite of it blandness , still retain a touch of the wholesome austerity and poignancy of a Canadian spring .
The whole world seem to have fall , for the time be , into a pleasant untroubled dream .
The scene be very peaceful and pastoral -- almost too much so , the young man think , with a shrug of his shoulder , a he stand in the worn step and gaze about him .
How be he go to put in a whole month here , he wonder , with a little smile at his own expense .
`` Father would chuckle if he know I be sick of it already , '' he think , a he walk across the play-ground to the long red road that run past the school .
`` Well , one week be end , at any rate .
I 've earn my own living for five whole day , and that be something I could never say before in all my twenty-four year of existence .
It be an exhilarate thought .
But teach the Lindsay district school be distinctly NOT exhilarate -- at least in such a well-behaved school a this , where the pupil be so painfully good that I have n't even the traditional excitement of thrash obstreperous bad boy .
Everything seem to go by clock work in Lindsay educational institution .
Larry must certainly have possess a marked gift for organize and drilling .
I feel a if I be merely a big cog in an orderly machine that run itself .
However , I understand that there be some pupil who have n't show up yet , and who , accord to all report , have not yet have the old Adam totally drill out of them .
They may make thing more interesting .
Also a few more composition , such a John Reid 's , would furnish some spice to professional life . ''
Eric 's laughter waken the echo a he swing into the road down the long sloping hill .
He have give his fourth grade pupil their own choice of subject in the composition class that morning , and John Reid , a sober , matter-of-fact little urchin , with not the slight embryonic development of a sense of humour , have , act upon the whispered suggestion of a roguish desk-mate , elect to write upon `` Courting . ''
His open sentence make Eric 's face twitch mutinously whenever he recall it during the day .
`` Courting be a very pleasant thing which a great many people go too far with . ''
The distant hill and wooded upland be tremulous and aerial in delicate spring-time gauze of pearl and purple .
The young , green-leafed maple crowd thickly to the very edge of the road on either side , but beyond them be emerald field bask in sunshine , over which cloud shadow roll , broaden , and vanish .
Far below the field a calm ocean sleep bluely , and sigh in it sleep , with the murmur that ring for ever in the ear of those whose good fortune it be to have be bear within the sound of it .
Now and then Eric meet some callow , check-shirted , bare-legged lad on horseback , or a shrewd-faced farmer in a cart , who nod and call out cheerily , `` Howdy , Master ? ''
A young girl , with a rosy , oval face , dimple cheek , and pretty dark eye fill with shy coquetry , pass him , look a if she would not be at all averse to a good acquaintance with the new teacher .
Half way down the hill Eric meet a shambling , old gray horse draw an express wagon which have see well day .
The driver be a woman : she appear to be one of those drab-tinted individual who can never have felt a rosy emotion in all their life .
She stop her horse , and beckon Eric over to her with the knobby handle of a faded and bony umbrella .
`` Reckon you 're the new Master , ai n't you ? ''
she ask .
Eric admit that he be .
`` Well , I 'm glad to see you , '' she say , offer him a hand in a much darn cotton glove that have once be black .
`` I be right sorry to see Mr. West go , for he be a right good teacher , and a harmless , inoffensive a creetur a ever live .
But I always tell him every time I lay eye on him that he be in consumption , if ever a man be .
YOU look real healthy -- though you ca n't aways tell by look , either .
I have a brother complect like you , but he be kill in a railroad accident out west when he be real young .
`` I 've get a boy I 'll be send to school to you next week .
He 'd oughter go this week , but I have to keep him home to help me put the pertaters in ; for his father wo n't work and do n't work and ca n't be make to work .
`` Sandy -- his full name be Edward Alexander -- call after both his grandfather -- hat the idee of go to school bad 'n pisen -- always do .
But go he shall , for I 'm determined he 's get to have more larning hammer into his head yet .
I reckon you 'll have trouble with him , Master , for he 's as stupid a an owl , and as stubborn a Solomon 's mule .
But mind this , Master , I 'll back you up .
You just lick Sandy good and plenty when he need it , and send me a scrape of the pen home with him , and I 'll give him another dose .
`` There 's people that always side in with their young one when there 's any rumpus kick up in the school , but I do n't hold to that , and never do .
You can depend on Rebecca Reid every time , Master . ''
`` Thank you .
I be sure I can , '' say Eric , in his most winning tone .
He keep his face straight until it be safe to relax , and Mrs. Reid drive on with a soft feeling in her leathery old heart , which have be so toughen by long endurance of poverty and toil , and a husband who would n't work and could n't be make to work , that it be no long a very susceptible organ where member of the opposite sex be concern .
Mrs. Reid reflect that this young man have a way with him .
Eric already know most of the Lindsay folk by sight ; but at the foot of the hill he meet two people , a man and a boy , whom he do not know .
They be sit in a shabby , old-fashioned wagon , and be water their horse at the brook , which gurgle limpidly under the little plank bridge in the hollow .
Eric survey them with some curiosity .
They do not look in the least like the ordinary run of Lindsay people .
The boy , in particular , have a distinctly foreign appearance , in spite of the gingham shirt and homespun trouser , which seem to be the regulation , work-a-day outfit for the Lindsay farmer lad .
He have a lithe , supple body , with slop shoulder , and a lean , satiny brown throat above his open shirt collar .
His head be cover with thick , silky , black curl , and the hand that hang down by the side of the wagon be unusually long and slender .
His face be richly , though somewhat heavily feature , olive tint , save for the cheek , which have a dusky crimson bloom .
His mouth be a red and beguile a a girl 's , and his eye be large , bold and black .
All in all , he be a strikingly handsome fellow ; but the expression of his face be sullen , and he somehow give Eric the impression of a sinuous , feline creature bask in lazy grace , but ever ready for an unexpected spring .
The other occupant of the wagon be a man between sixty-five and seventy , with iron-gray hair , a long , full , gray beard , a harsh-featured face , and deep-set hazel eye under bushy , bristle brow .
He be evidently tall , with a spare , ungainly figure , and stoop shoulder .
His mouth be close-lipped and relentless , and do not look a if it have ever smile .
Indeed , the idea of smile could not be connect with this man -- it be utterly incongruous .
Yet there be nothing repellent about his face ; and there be something in it that compel Eric 's attention .
He rather pride himself on be a student of physiognomy , and he felt quite sure that this man be no ordinary Lindsay farmer of the genial , garrulous type with which he be familiar .
Long after the old wagon , with it oddly assorted pair , have go lumber up the hill , Eric find himself thinking of the stern , heavy browed man and the black-eyed , red-lipped boy .
CHAPTER IV .
A TEA TABLE CONVERSATION The Williamson place , where Eric board , be on the crest of the succeeding hill .
He like it as well a Larry West have prophesy that he would .
The Williamsons , as well a the rest of the Lindsay people , take it for grant that he be a poor college student work his way through a Larry West have be do .
Eric do not disturb this belief , although he say nothing to contribute to it .
The Williamsons be at tea in the kitchen when Eric go in .
Mrs. Williamson be the `` saint in spectacle and calico '' which Larry West have term her .
Eric like her greatly .
She be a slight , gray-haired woman , with a thin , sweet , high-bred face , deeply line with the record of outlived pain .
She talk little a a rule ; but , in the pungent country phrase she never speak but she say something .
The one thing that constantly puzzle Eric be how such a woman ever come to marry Robert Williamson .
She smile in a motherly fashion at Eric , a he hang his hat on the white-washed wall and take his place at the table .
Outside of the window behind him be a birch grove which , in the westering sun , be a tremulous splendour , with a sea of undergrowth waver into golden billow by every passing wind .
Old Robert Williamson sit opposite him , on a bench .
He be a small , lean old man , half lose in loose clothes that seem far too large for him .
When he speak his voice be a thin and squeaky a he appear to be himself .
The other end of the bench be occupy by Timothy , sleek and complacent , with a snowy breast and white paw .
After old Robert have take a mouthful of anything he give a piece to Timothy , who eat it daintily and purr resonant gratitude .
`` You see we 're busy wait for you , Master , '' say old Robert .
`` You 're late this evening .
Keep any of the youngster in ?
That 's a foolish way of punish them , as hard on yourself a on them .
One teacher we have four year ago use to lock them in and go home .
Then he 'd go back in an hour and let them out -- if they be there .
They be n't always .
Tom Ferguson kick the panel out of the old door once and get out that way .
We put a new door of double plank in that they could n't kick out . ''
`` I stay in the schoolroom to do some work , '' say Eric briefly .
`` Well , you 've miss Alexander Tracy .
He be here to find out if you could play checker , and , when I tell him you could , he leave word for you to go up and have a game some evening soon .
Do n't beat him too often , even if you can .
You 'll need to stand in with him , I tell you , Master , for he 's get a son that may brew trouble for you when he start in to go to school .
Seth Tracy 's a young imp , and he 'd far sooner be in mischief than eat .
He try to run on every new teacher and he 's run two clean out of the school .
But he meet his match in Mr. West .
William Tracy 's boy now -- you wo n't have a scrap of bother with THEM .
They 're always good because their mother tell them every Sunday that they 'll go straight to hell if they do n't behave in school .
It 's effective .
Take some preserve , Master .
You know we do n't help thing here the way Mrs. Adam Scott do when she have boarder , ' I s ` pose you do n't want any of this -- nor you -- nor you ? '
Mother , Aleck say old George Wright be have the time of his life .
His wife have go to Charlottetown to visit her sister and he be his own bos for the first time since he be marry , forty year ago .
He 's on a regular orgy , Aleck say .
He smoke in the parlour and sit up till eleven o'clock reading dime novel . ''
`` Perhaps I meet Mr. Tracy , '' say Eric .
`` Is he a tall man , with gray hair and a dark , stern face ? ''
`` No , he 's a round , jolly fellow , be Aleck , and he stop grow pretty much before he 'd ever begin .
I reckon the man you mean be Thomas Gordon .
I see him drive down the road too .
HE wo n't be trouble you with invitation up , small fear of it .
The Gordons ai n't sociable , to say the least of it .
No , sir !
Mother , pass the biscuit to the Master . ''
`` Who be the young fellow he have with him ? ''
ask Eric curiously .
`` Neil -- Neil Gordon . ''
`` That be a Scotchy name for such a face and eye .
I should rather have expect Guiseppe or Angelo .
The boy look like an Italian . ''
`` Well , now , you know , Master , I reckon it 's likely he do , see that that 's exactly what he be .
You 've hit the nail square on the head .
Italyun , yes , sir !
Rather too much so , I 'm think , for decent folk ' taste . ''
`` How have it happen that an Italian boy with a Scotch name be live in a place like Lindsay ? ''
`` Well , Master , it be this way .
About twenty-two year ago -- WAS it twenty-two , Mother or twenty-four ?
Yes , it be twenty-two -- 't be the same year our Jim be bear and he 'd have be twenty-two if he 'd live , poor little fellow .
Well , Master , twenty-two year ago a couple of Italian pack peddler come along and call at the Gordon place .
The country be swarm with them then .
I useter set the dog on one every day on an average .
`` Well , these peddler be man and wife , and the woman take sick up there at the Gordon place , and Janet Gordon take her in and nurse her .
A baby be bear the next day , and the woman die .
Then the first thing anybody know the father skip clean out , pack and all , and be never see or hear tell of afterwards .
The Gordons be leave with the fine youngster to their hand .
Folks advise them to send him to the Orphan Asylum , and ` twould have be the wise plan , but the Gordons be never fond of take advice .
Old James Gordon be live then , Thomas and Janet 's father , and he say he would never turn a child out of his door .
He be a masterful old man and like to be bos .
Folks use to say he have a grudge against the sun 'cause it rise and set without his say so .
Anyhow , they keep the baby .
They call him Neil and have him baptized same a any Christian child .
He 's always live there .
They do well enough by him .
He be send to school and take to church and treat like one of themselves .
Some folk think they make too much of him .
It do n't always do with that kind , for ` what 's breed in bone be mighty apt to come out in flesh , ' if ` taint keep down pretty well .
Neil 's smart and a great worker , they tell me .
But folk hereabouts do n't like him .
They say he ai n't to be trust further 'n you can see him , if a far .
It 's certain he 's awful hot temper , and one time when he be go to school he near about kill a boy he 'd take a spite to -- choke him till he be black in the face and Neil have to be drag off . ''
`` Well now , father , you know they tease him terrible , '' protest Mrs. Williamson .
`` The poor boy have a real hard time when he go to school , Master .
The other child be always cast thing up to him and call him names . ''
`` Oh , I daresay they torment him a lot , '' admit her husband .
`` He 's a great hand at the fiddle and like company .
He go to the harbour a good deal .
But they say he take sulky spell when he have n't a word to throw to a dog .
` Twould n't be any wonder , live with the Gordons .
They 're all as queer a Dick 's hat-band . ''
`` Father , you should n't talk so about your neighbour , '' say his wife rebukingly .
`` Well now , Mother , you know they be , if you 'd only speak up honest .
But you 're like old Aunt Nancy Scott , you never say anything uncharitable except in the way of business .
You know the Gordons ai n't like other people and never be and never will be .
They 're about the only queer folk we have in Lindsay , Master , except old Peter Cook , who keep twenty-five cat .
Lord , Master , think of it !
What chanct would a poor mouse have ?
None of the rest of u be queer , leastwise , we hai n't find it out if we be .
But , then , we 're mighty uninteresting , I 'm bound to admit that . ''
`` Where do the Gordons live ? ''
ask Eric , who have grow use to hold fast to a give point of inquiry through all the bewilder maze of old Robert 's conversation .
`` Away up yander , half a mile in from Radnor road , with a thick spruce wood atween them and all the rest of the world .
They never go away anywheres , except to church -- they never miss that -- and nobody go there .
There 's just old Thomas , and his sister Janet , and a niece of theirs , and this here Neil we 've be talk about .
They 're a queer , dour , cranky lot , and I WILL say it , Mother .
There , give your old man a cup of tea and never mind the way his tongue run on .
Speaking of tea , do you know Mrs. Adam Palmer and Mrs. Jim Martin take tea together at Foster Reid 's last Wednesday afternoon ? ''
`` No , why , I think they be on bad term , '' say Mrs. Williamson , betray a little feminine curiosity .
`` So they be , so they be .
But they both happen to visit Mrs. Foster the same afternoon and neither would leave because that would be knuckle down to the other .
So they stick it out , on opposite side of the parlour .
Mrs. Foster say she never spend such an uncomfortable afternoon in all her life before .
She would talk a spell to one and then t ` other .
And they keep talk TO Mrs. Foster and AT each other .
Mrs. Foster say she really think she 'd have to keep them all night , for neither would start to go home afore the other .
Finally Jim Martin come in to look for his wife , 'cause he think she must have get stick in the marsh , and that solve the problem .
Master , you ai n't eat anything .
Do n't mind my stopping ; I be at it half an hour afore you come , and anyway I 'm in a hurry .
My hired boy go home to-day .
He hear the rooster crow at twelve last night and he 's go home to see which of his family be dead .
He know one of 'em be .
He hear a rooster crow in the middle of the night onct afore and the next day he get word that his second cousin down at Souris be dead .
Mother , if the Master do n't want any more tea , ai n't there some cream for Timothy ? ''
CHAPTER V .
A PHANTOM OF DELIGHT Shortly before sunset that even Eric go for a walk .
When he do not go to the shore he like to indulge in long tramp through the Lindsay field and wood , in the mellowness of `` the sweet ' o the year . ''
Most of the Lindsay house be build along the main road , which run parallel to the shore , or about the store at `` The Corner . ''
The farm run back from them into solitude of wood and pasture land .
Eric strike southwest from the Williamson homestead , in a direction he have not hitherto explore , and walk briskly along , enjoy the witchery of the season all about him in earth and air and sky .
He felt it and love it and yield to it , a anyone of clean life and sane pulse must do .
The spruce wood in which he presently find himself be smite through with arrow of ruby light from the set sun .
He go through it , walk up a long , purple aisle where the wood-floor be brown and elastic under his foot , and come out beyond it on a scene which surprise him .
No house be in sight , but he find himself look into an orchard ; an old orchard , evidently long neglected and forsaken .
But an orchard die hard ; and this one , which must have be a very delightful spot once , be delightful still , none the less so for the air of gentle melancholy which seem to pervade it , the melancholy which invest all place that have once be the scene of joy and pleasure and young life , and be so no longer , place where heart have throb , and pulse thrill , and eye brighten , and merry voice echoed .
The ghost of these thing seem to linger in their old haunt through many empty year .
The orchard be large and long , enclose in a tumbledown old fence of longer bleach to a silvery gray in the sun of many lose summer .
At regular interval along the fence be tall , gnarled fir tree , and an evening wind , sweet than that which blow over the bed of spice from Lebanon , be sing in their top , an earth-old song with power to carry the soul back to the dawn of time .
Eastward , a thick fir wood grow , begin with tiny treelet just feather from the grass , and grade up therefrom to the tall veteran of the mid-grove , unbrokenly and evenly , give the effect of a solid , slop green wall , so beautifully compact that it look a if it have be clip into it velvet surface by art .
Most of the orchard be grow over lushly with grass ; but at the end where Eric stand there be a square , treeless place which have evidently once serve a a homestead garden .
Old path be still visible , border by stone and large pebble .
There be two clump of lilac tree ; one blossoming in royal purple , the other in white .
Between them be a bed ablow with the starry spike of June lily .
Their penetrating , haunt fragrance distil on the dewy air in every soft puff of wind .
Along the fence rosebush grow , but it be a yet too early in the season for rose .
Beyond be the orchard proper , three long row of tree with green avenue between , each tree stand in a wonderful blow of pink and white .
The charm of the place take sudden possession of Eric a nothing have ever do before .
He be not give to romantic fancy ; but the orchard lay hold of him subtly and draw him to itself , and he be never to be quite his own man again .
He go into it over one of the broken panel of fence , and so , unknowing , go forward to meet all that life hold for him .
He walk the length of the orchard 's middle avenue between long , sinuous bough pick out with delicate , rose-hearted bloom .
When he reach it southern boundary he fling himself down in a grassy corner of the fence where another lilac bush grow , with fern and wild blue violet at it root .
From where he now be he get a glimpse of a house about a quarter of a mile away , it gray gable peer out from a dark spruce wood .
It seem a dull , gloomy , remote place , and he do not know who live there .
He have a wide outlook to the west , over far hazy field and misty blue intervales .
The sun have just set , and the whole world of green meadow beyond swam in golden light .
Across a long valley brim with shadow be upland of sunset , and great sky lake of saffron and rise where a soul might lose itself in colour .
The air be very fragrant with the baptism of the dew , and the odour of a bed of wild mint upon which he have trample .
Robins be whistle , clear and sweet and sudden , in the wood all about him .
`` This be a veritable ` haunt of ancient peace , ' '' quote Eric , look around with delighted eye .
`` I could fall asleep here , dream dream and see vision .
What a sky !
Could anything be divine than that fine crystal eastern blue , and those frail white cloud that look like woven lace ?
What a dizzying , intoxicate fragrance lilac have !
I wonder if perfume could set a man drunk .
Those apple tree now -- why , what be that ? ''
Eric start up and listen .
Across the mellow stillness , mingle with the croon of the wind in the tree and the flute-like call of the robin , come a strain of delicious music , so beautiful and fantastic that Eric hold his breath in astonishment and delight .
Was he dream ?
No , it be real music , the music of a violin play by some hand inspire with the very spirit of harmony .
He have never hear anything like it ; and , somehow , he felt quite sure that nothing exactly like it ever have be hear before ; he believe that that wonderful music be come straight from the soul of the unseen violinist , and translate itself into those most airy and delicate and exquisite sound for the first time ; the very soul of music , with all sense and earthliness refine away .
It be an elusive , haunt melody , strangely suit to the time and place ; it have in it the sigh of the wind in the wood , the eerie whispering of the grass at dewfall , the white thought of the June lily , the rejoicing of the apple blossom ; all the soul of all the old laughter and song and tear and gladness and sob the orchard have ever know in the lost year ; and besides all this , there be in it a pitiful , plaintive cry a of some imprisoned thing call for freedom and utterance .
At first Eric listen a a man spellbound , mutely and motionlessly , lose in wonderment .
Then a very natural curiosity overcame him .
Who in Lindsay could play a violin like that ?
And who be play so here , in this deserted old orchard , of all place in the world ?
He rise and walk up the long white avenue , go a slowly and silently a possible , for he do not wish to interrupt the player .
When he reach the open space of the garden he stop short in new amazement and be again tempt into think he must certainly be dream .
Under the big branching white lilac tree be an old , sagging , wooden bench ; and on this bench a girl be sit , play on an old brown violin .
Her eye be on the faraway horizon and she do not see Eric .
For a few moment he stand there and look at her .
The picture she make photograph itself on his vision to the fine detail , never to be blot from his book of remembrance .
To his late day Eric Marshall will be able to recall vividly that scene a he saw it then -- the velvet darkness of the spruce wood , the overarch sky of soft brilliance , the sway lilac blossom , and amid it all the girl on the old bench with the violin under her chin .
He have , in his twenty-four year of life , meet hundred of pretty woman , score of handsome woman , a scant half dozen of really beautiful woman .
But he know at once , beyond all possibility of question or doubt , that he have never see or imagine anything so exquisite a this girl of the orchard .
Her loveliness be so perfect that his breath almost go from him in his first delight of it .
Her face be oval , mark in every cameo-like line and feature with that expression of absolute , flawless purity , find in the angel and Madonnas of old painting , a purity that hold in it no faint strain of earthliness .
Her head be bare , and her thick , jet-black hair be part above her forehead and hung in two heavy lustrous braid over her shoulder .
Her eye be of such a blue a Eric have never see in eye before , the tint of the sea in the still , calm light that follow after a fine sunset ; they be as luminous a the star that come out over Lindsay Harbour in the afterglow , and be fringe about with very long , soot-black lash , and arch over by most delicately pencilled dark eyebrow .
Her skin be a fine and purely tint a the heart of a white rise .
The collarless dress of pale blue print she wear reveal her smooth , slender throat ; her sleeve be roll up above her elbow and the hand which guide the bow of her violin be perhaps the most beautiful thing about her , perfect in shape and texture , firm and white , with rosy-nailed taper finger .
One long , droop plume of lilac blossom lightly touch her hair and cast a wavering shadow over the flower-like face beneath it .
There be something very child-like about her , and yet at least eighteen sweet year must have go to the making of her .
She seem to be play half unconsciously , a if her thought be far away in some fair dreamland of the sky .
But presently she look away from `` the bourne of sunset , '' and her lovely eye fell on Eric , stand motionless before her in the shadow of the apple tree .
The sudden change that sweep over her be startle .
She spring to her foot , the music breaking in mid-strain and the bow slip from her hand to the grass .
Every hint of colour flee from her face and she tremble like one of the wind-stirred June lily .
`` I beg your pardon , '' say Eric hastily .
`` I be sorry that I have alarm you .
But your music be so beautiful that I do not remember you be not aware of my presence here .
Please forgive me . ''
He stop in dismay , for he suddenly realize that the expression on the girl 's face be one of terror -- not merely the startled alarm of a shy , childlike creature who have think herself alone , but absolute terror .
It be betray in her blanched and quiver lip and in the widely distend blue eye that star back into his with the expression of some trap wild thing .
It hurt him that any woman should look at him in such a fashion , at him who have always hold womanhood in such reverence .
`` Do n't look so frightened , '' he say gently , think only of calm her fear , and speaking a he would to a child .
`` I will not hurt you .
You be safe , quite safe . ''
In his eagerness to reassure her he take an unconscious step forward .
Instantly she turn , and , without a sound , flee across the orchard , through a gap in the northern fence and along what seem to be a lane border the fir wood beyond and arch over with wild cherry tree misty white in the gathering gloom .
Before Eric could recover his wit she have vanish from his sight among the fir .
He stoop and pick up the violin bow , feel slightly foolish and very much annoyed .
`` Well , this be a most mysterious thing , '' he say , somewhat impatiently .
`` Am I bewitch ?
Who be she ?
WHAT be she ?
Can it be possible that she be a Lindsay girl ?
And why in the name of all that 's provoking should she be so frighten at the mere sight of me ?
I have never think I be a particularly hideous person , but certainly this adventure have not increase my vanity to any perceptible extent .
Perhaps I have wander into an enchanted orchard , and be outwardly transform into an ogre .
Now that I have come to think of it , there be something quite uncanny about the place .
Anything might happen here .
It be no common orchard for the production of marketable apple , that be plain to be see .
No , it 's a most unwholesome locality ; and the sooner I make my escape from it the well . ''
He glance about it with a whimsical smile .
The light be fade rapidly and the orchard be full of soft , creep shadow and silence .
It seem to wink sleepy eye of impish enjoyment at his perplexity .
He lay the violin bow down on the old bench .
`` Well , there be no use in my follow her , and I have no right to do so even if it be of use .
But I certainly wish she have n't flee in such evident terror .
Eyes like hers be never mean to express anything but tenderness and trust .
Why -- why -- WHY be she so frighten ?
And who -- who -- WHO -- can she be ? ''
All the way home , over field and pasture that be begin to be moonlight silver he ponder the mystery .
`` Let me see , '' he reflect .
`` Mr. Williamson be describe the Lindsay girl for my benefit the other evening .
If I remember rightly he say that there be four handsome one in the district .
What be their name ?
Florrie Woods , Melissa Foster -- no , Melissa Palmer -- Emma Scott , and Jennie May Ferguson .
Can she be one of them ?
No , it be a flagrant waste of time and gray matter suppose it .
That girl could n't be a Florrie or a Melissa or an Emma , while Jennie May be completely out of the question .
Well , there be some bewitchment in the affair .
Of that I 'm convinced .
So I 'd better forget all about it . ''
But Eric find that it be impossible to forget all about it .
The more he try to forget , the more keenly and insistently he remember .
The girl 's exquisite face haunt him and the mystery of her tantalized him .
True , he know that , in all likelihood , he might easily solve the problem by ask the Williamsons about her .
But somehow , to his own surprise , he find that he shrink from do this .
He felt that it be impossible to ask Robert Williamson and probably have the girl 's name overflow in a stream of petty gossip concern her and all her antecedent and collateral to the third and fourth generation .
If he have to ask any one it should be Mrs. Williamson ; but he mean to find out the secret for himself if it be at all possible .
He have plan to go to the harbour the next evening .
One of the lobsterman have promise to take him out cod-fishing .
But instead he wander southwest over the field again .
He find the orchard easily -- he have half expect NOT to find it .
It be still the same fragrant , grassy , wind-haunted spot .
But it have no occupant and the violin bow be go from the old bench .
`` Perhaps she tiptoe back here for it by the light o ' the moon , '' think Eric , please his fancy by the vision of a lithe , girlish figure steal with a beating heart through mingle shadow and moonshine .
`` I wonder if she will possibly come this evening , or if I have frighten her away for ever .
I 'll hide me behind this spruce copse and wait . ''
Eric wait until dark , but no music sound through the orchard and no one come to it .
The keenness of his disappointment surprise him , nay more , it vex him .
What nonsense to be so work up because a little girl he have see for five minute fail to appear !
Where be his common sense , his `` gumption , '' a old Robert Williamson would have say ?
Naturally a man like to look at a pretty face .
But be that any reason why he should feel a if life be flat , stale , and unprofitable simply because he could not look at it ?
He call himself a fool and go home in a petulant mood .
Arriving there , he plunge fiercely into solve algebraical equation and work out geometry exercise , determine to put out of his head forthwith all vain imaginings of an enchanted orchard , white in the moonshine , with lilt of elfin music echo down it long arcade .
The next day be Sunday and Eric go to church twice .
The Williamson pew be one of the side one at the top of the church and it occupant practically face the congregation .
Eric look at every girl and woman in the audience , but he saw nothing of the face which , set will power and common sense flatly at defiance , haunt his memory like a star .
Thomas Gordon be there , sit alone in his long , empty pew near the top of the building ; and Neil Gordon sang in the choir which occupy the front pew of the gallery .
He have a powerful and melodious , though untrained voice , which dominate the singing and take the colour out of the weak , more commonplace tone of the other singer .
He be well-dressed in a suit of dark blue serge , with a white collar and tie .
But Eric idly think it do not become him so well a the work clothes in which he have first see him .
He be too obviously dress up , and he look coarser and more out of harmony with his surroundings .
For two day Eric refuse to let himself think of the orchard .
Monday evening he go cod-fishing , and Tuesday evening he go up to play checker with Alexander Tracy .
Alexander win all the game so easily that he never have any respect for Eric Marshall again .
`` Played like a feller whose thought be wool gathering , '' he complain to his wife .
`` He 'll never make a checker player -- never in this world . ''
CHAPTER VI .
THE STORY OF KILMENY Wednesday even Eric go to the orchard again ; and again he be disappoint .
He go home , determine to solve the mystery by open inquiry .
Fortune favour him , for he find Mrs. Williamson alone , sit by the west window of her kitchen and knitting at a long gray sock .
She hum softly to herself a she knit , and Timothy sleep blackly at her foot .
She look at Eric with quiet affection in her large , candid eye .
She have like Mr. West .
But Eric have find his way into the inner chamber of her heart , by reason that his eye be so like those of the little son she have bury in the Lindsay churchyard many year before .
`` Mrs. Williamson , '' say Eric , with an affectation of carelessness , `` I chance on an old desert orchard back behind the wood over there last week , a charming bit of wilderness .
Do you know whose it be ? ''
`` I suppose it must be the old Connors orchard , '' answer Mrs. Williamson after a moment 's reflection .
`` I have forget all about it .
It must be all of thirty year since Mr. and Mrs. Connors move away .
Their house and barn be burn down and they sell the land to Thomas Gordon and go to live in town .
They 're both dead now .
Mr. Connors use to be very proud of his orchard .
There be n't many orchard in Lindsay then , though almost everybody have one now . ''
`` There be a young girl in it , play on a violin , '' say Eric , annoy to find that it cost him an effort to speak of her , and that the blood mount to his face a he do so .
`` She run away in great alarm as soon a she saw me , although I do not think I do or say anything to frighten or vex her .
I have no idea who she be .
Do you know ? ''
Mrs. Williamson do not make an immediate reply .
She lay down her knitting and gaze out of the window a if pondering seriously some question in her own mind .
Finally she say , with an intonation of keen interest in her voice , `` I suppose it must have be Kilmeny Gordon , Master . ''
`` Kilmeny Gordon ?
Do you mean the niece of Thomas Gordon of whom your husband speak ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I can hardly believe that the girl I saw can be a member of Thomas Gordon 's family . ''
`` Well , if it be n't Kilmeny Gordon I do n't know who it could have be .
There be no other house near that orchard and I 've hear she play the violin .
If it be Kilmeny you 've see what very few people in Lindsay have ever see , Master .
And those few have never see her close by .
I have never lay eye on her myself .
It 's no wonder she run away , poor girl .
She be n't use to see stranger . ''
`` I 'm rather glad if that be the sole reason of her flight , '' say Eric .
`` I admit I do n't like to see any girl so frighten of me a she appear to be .
She be as white a paper , and so terrify that she never utter a word , but flee like a deer to cover . ''
`` Well , she could n't have speak a word in any case , '' say Mrs. Williamson quietly .
`` Kilmeny Gordon be dumb . ''
Eric sit in dismayed silence for a moment .
That beautiful creature afflict in such a fashion -- why , it be horrible !
Mingled with his dismay be a strange pang of personal regret and disappointment .
`` It could n't have be Kilmeny Gordon , then , '' he protest at last , remember .
`` The girl I saw play on the violin exquisitely .
I never hear anything like it .
It be impossible that a deaf mute could play like that . ''
`` Oh , she be n't deaf , Master , '' respond Mrs. Williamson , look at Eric keenly through her spectacle .
She pick up her knitting and fell to work again .
`` That be the strange part of it , if anything about her can be strange than another .
She can hear as well a anybody and understand everything that be say to her .
But she ca n't speak a word and never could , at least , so they say .
The truth be , nobody know much about her .
Janet and Thomas never speak of her , and Neil wo n't either .
He have be well questioned , too , you can depend on that ; but he wo n't ever say a word about Kilmeny and he get mad if folk persist . ''
`` Why be n't she to be speak of ? ''
query Eric impatiently .
`` What be the mystery about her ? ''
`` It 's a sad story , Master .
I suppose the Gordons look on her existence a a sort of disgrace .
For my own part , I think it 's terrible , the way she 's be bring up .
But the Gordons be very strange people , Mr. Marshall .
I kind of reproved father for say so , you remember , but it be true .
They have very strange way .
And you 've really see Kilmeny ?
What do she look like ?
I 've hear that she be handsome .
Is it true ? ''
`` I think her very beautiful , '' say Eric rather curtly .
`` But HOW have she be bring up , Mrs. Williamson ?
And why ? ''
`` Well , I might as well tell you the whole story , Master .
Kilmeny be the niece of Thomas and Janet Gordon .
Her mother be Margaret Gordon , their young sister .
Old James Gordon come out from Scotland .
Janet and Thomas be bear in the Old Country and be small child when they come here .
They be never very sociable folk , but still they use to visit out some then , and people use to go there .
They be kind and honest people , even if they be a little peculiar .
`` Mrs. Gordon die a few year after they come out , and four year later James Gordon go home to Scotland and bring a new wife back with him .
She be a great deal young than he be and a very pretty woman , a my mother often tell me .
She be friendly and gay and like social life .
The Gordon place be a very different sort of place after she come there , and even Janet and Thomas get thaw out and soften down a good bit .
They be real fond of their stepmother , I 've hear .
Then , six year after she be marry , the second Mrs. Gordon die too .
She die when Margaret be bear .
They say James Gordon almost break his heart over it .
`` Janet bring Margaret up .
She and Thomas just worship the child and so do their father .
I know Margaret Gordon well once .
We be just the same age and we set together in school .
We be always good friend until she turn against all the world .
`` She be a strange girl in some way even then , but I always like her , though a great many people do n't .
She have some bitter enemy , but she have some devoted friend too .
That be her way .
She make folk either hate or love her .
Those who do love her would have go through fire and water for her .
`` When she grow up she be very pretty -- tall and splendid , like a queen , with great thick braid of black hair and red , red cheek and lip .
Everybody who saw her look at her a second time .
She be a little vain of her beauty , I think , Master .
And she be proud , oh , she be very proud .
She like to be first in everything , and she could n't bear not to show to good advantage .
She be dreadful determined , too .
You could n't budge her an inch , Master , when she once have make up her mind on any point .
But she be warm-hearted and generous .
She could sing like an angel and she be very clever .
She could learn anything with just one look at it and she be terrible fond of reading .
`` When I 'm talk about her like this it all come back to me , just what she be like and how she look and speak and act , and little way she have of move her hand and head .
I declare it almost seem a if she be right here in this room instead of be over there in the churchyard .
I wish you 'd light the lamp , Master .
I feel kind of nervous . ''
Eric rise and light the lamp , rather wonder at Mrs. Williamson 's unusual exhibition of nerve .
She be generally so calm and compose .
`` Thank you , Master .
That 's good .
I wo n't be fancy now that Margaret Gordon 's here listen to what I 'm say .
I have the feeling so strong a moment ago .
`` I suppose you think I 'm a long while get to Kilmeny , but I 'm come to that .
I do n't mean to talk so much about Margaret , but somehow my thought get take up with her .
`` Well , Margaret pass the Board and go to Queen 's Academy and get a teacher 's license .
She pass pretty well up when she come out , but Janet tell me she cry all night after the pas list come out because there be some ahead of her .
`` She go to teach school over at Radnor .
It be there she meet a man name Ronald Fraser .
Margaret have never have a beau before .
She could have have any young man in Lindsay if she have want him , but she would n't look at one of them .
They say it be because she think nobody be good enough for her , but that be n't the way of it at all , Master .
I know , because Margaret and I use to talk of those matter , a girl do .
She do n't believe in go with anybody unless it be somebody she think everything of .
And there be nobody in Lindsay she care that much for .
`` This Ronald Fraser be a stranger from Nova Scotia and nobody know much about him .
He be a widower , although he be only a young man .
He have set up store-keeping in Radnor and be do well .
He be real handsome and have take way woman like .
It be say that all the Radnor girl be in love with him , but I do n't think his bad enemy could have say he flirt with them .
He never take any notice of them ; but the very first time he saw Margaret Gordon he fell in love with her and she with him .
`` They come over to church in Lindsay together the next Sunday and everybody say it would be a match .
Margaret look lovely that day , so gentle and womanly .
She have be use to hold her head pretty high , but that day she hold it droop a little and her black eye cast down .
Ronald Fraser be very tall and fair , with blue eye .
They make a handsome a couple a I ever saw .
`` But old James Gordon and Thomas and Janet do n't much approve of him .
I saw that plain enough one time I be there and he bring Margaret home from Radnor Friday night .
I guess they would n't have like anybody , though , who come after Margaret .
They think nobody be good enough for her .
`` But Margaret coax them all round in time .
She could do pretty near anything with them , they be so fond and proud of her .
Her father hold out the long , but finally he give in and consent for her to marry Ronald Fraser .
`` They have a big wedding , too -- all the neighbour be ask .
Margaret always like to make a display .
I be her bridesmaid , Master .
I help her dress and nothing would please her ; she want to look that nice for Ronald 's sake .
She be a handsome bride ; dress in white , with red rose in her hair and at her breast .
She would n't wear white flower ; she say they look too much like funeral flower .
She look like a picture .
I can see her this minute , as plain a plain , just a she be that night , blushing and turn pale by turn , and look at Ronald with her eye of love .
If ever a girl love a man with all her heart Margaret Gordon do .
It almost make me feel frighten .
She give him the worship it be n't right to give anybody but God , Master , and I think that be always punish .
`` They go to live at Radnor and for a little while everything go well .
Margaret have a nice house , and be gay and happy .
She dress beautiful and entertain a good deal .
Then -- well , Ronald Fraser 's first wife turn up look for him !
She be n't dead after all .
`` Oh , there be terrible scandal , Master .
The talk and gossip be something dreadful .
Every one you meet have a different story , and it be hard to get at the truth .
Some say Ronald Fraser have know all the time that his wife be n't dead , and have deceive Margaret .
But I do n't think he do .
He swear he do n't .
They have n't be very happy together , it seem .
Her mother make trouble between them .
Then she go to visit her mother in Montreal , and die in the hospital there , so the word come to Ronald .
Perhaps he believe it a little too readily , but that he DID believe it I never have a doubt .
Her story be that it be another woman of the same name .
When she find out Ronald think her dead she and her mother agree to let him think so .
But when she hear he have get marry again she think she 'd better let him know the truth .
`` It all sound like a queer story and I suppose you could n't blame people for not believe it too readily .
But I 've always felt it be true .
Margaret do n't think so , though .
She believe that Ronald Fraser have deceive her , know all the time that he could n't make her his lawful wife .
She turn against him and hat him just as much a she have love him before .
`` Ronald Fraser go away with his real wife , and in less than a year word come of his death .
They say he just die of a broken heart , nothing more nor less .
`` Margaret come home to her father 's house .
From the day that she go over it threshold , she never come out until she be carry out in her coffin three year ago .
Not a soul outside of her own family ever saw her again .
I go to see her , but Janet tell me she would n't see me .
It be foolish of Margaret to act so .
She have n't do anything real wrong ; and everybody be sorry for her and would have help her all they could .
But I reckon pity cut her as deep a blame could have do , and deep , because you see , Master , she be so proud she could n't bear it .
`` They say her father be hard on her , too ; and that be unjust if it be true .
Janet and Thomas felt the disgrace , too .
The people that have be in the habit of go to the Gordon place soon stop go , for they could see they be not welcome .
`` Old James Gordon die that winter .
He never hold his head up again after the scandal .
He have be an elder in the church , but he hand in his resignation right away and nobody could persuade him to withdraw it .
`` Kilmeny be bear in the spring , but nobody ever saw her , except the minister who baptize her .
She be never take to church or send to school .
Of course , I suppose there would n't have be any use in her go to school when she could n't speak , and it 's likely Margaret teach her all she could be teach herself .
But it be dreadful that she be never take to church , or let go among the child and young folk .
And it be a real shame that nothing be ever do to find out why she could n't talk , or if she could be cure .
`` Margaret Gordon die three year ago , and everybody in Lindsay go to the funeral .
But they do n't see her .
The coffin lid be screw down .
And they do n't see Kilmeny either .
I would have love to see HER for Margaret 's sake , but I do n't want to see poor Margaret .
I have never see her since the night she be a bride , for I have leave Lindsay on a visit just after that , and what I come home the scandal have just break out .
I remember Margaret in all her pride and beauty , and I could n't have bear to look at her dead face and see the awful change I know must be there .
`` It be think perhaps Janet and Thomas would take Kilmeny out after her mother be go , but they never do , so I suppose they must have agree with Margaret about the way she have be bring up .
I 've often felt sorry for the poor girl , and I do n't think her people do right by her , even if she be mysteriously afflict .
She must have have a very sad , lonely life .
`` That be the story , Master , and I 've be a long time tell it , a I dare say you think .
But the past just seem to be live again for me a I talk .
If you do n't want to be pester with question about Kilmeny Gordon , Master , you 'd better not let on you 've see her . ''
Eric be not likely to .
He have hear all he want to know and more .
`` So this girl be at to core of a tragedy , '' he reflect , a he go to his room .
`` And she be dumb !
The pity of it !
Kilmeny !
The name suit her .
She be a lovely and innocent a the heroine of the old ballad .
` And oh , Kilmeny be fair to see . '
But the next line be certainly not so appropriate , for her eye be anything but ` still and steadfast ' -- after she have see me , at all event . ''
He try to put her out of his thought , but he could not .
The memory of her beautiful face draw him with a power he could not resist .
The next evening he go again to the orchard .
CHAPTER VII .
A ROSE OF WOMANHOOD When he emerge from the spruce wood and enter the orchard his heart give a sudden leap , and he felt that the blood rush madly to his face .
She be there , bend over the bed of June lily in the centre of the garden plot .
He could only see her profile , virginal and white .
He stop , not wish to startle her again .
When she lift her head he expect to see her shrink and flee , but she do not do so ; she only grow a little paler and stand motionless , watch him intently .
Seeing this , he walk slowly towards her , and when he be so close to her that he could hear the nervous flutter of her breath over her parted , tremble lip , he say very gently , `` Do not be afraid of me .
I be a friend , and I do not wish to disturb or annoy you in any way . ''
She seem to hesitate a moment .
Then she lift a little slate that hung at her belt , write something on it rapidly , and hold it out to him .
He read , in a small distinctive handwriting , `` I be not afraid of you now .
Mother tell me that all strange men be very wicked and dangerous , but I do not think you can be .
I have think a great deal about you , and I be sorry I run away the other night . ''
He realize her entire innocence and simplicity .
Looking earnestly into her still troubled eye he say , `` I would not do you any harm for the world .
All men be not wicked , although it be too true that some be so .
My name be Eric Marshall and I be teach in the Lindsay school .
You , I think , be Kilmeny Gordon .
I think your music so very lovely the other evening that I have be wish ever since that I might hear it again .
Wo n't you play for me ? ''
The vague fear have all go from her eye by this time , and suddenly she smile -- a merry , girlish , wholly irresistible smile , which break through the calm of her face like a gleam of sunlight rippling over a placid sea .
Then she write , `` I be very sorry that I can not play this evening .
I do not bring my violin with me .
But I will bring it to-morrow evening and play for you if you would like to hear me .
I should like to please you . ''
Again that note of innocent frankness !
What a child she be -- what a beautiful , ignorant child , utterly unskilled in the art of hide her feeling !
But why should she hide them ?
They be a pure and beautiful a herself .
Eric smile back at her with equal frankness .
`` I should like it more than I can say , and I shall be sure to come to-morrow evening if it be fine .
But if it be at all damp or unpleasant you must not come .
In that case another evening will do .
And now wo n't you give me some flower ? ''
She nod , with another little smile , and begin to pick some of the June lily , carefully select the most perfect among them .
He watch her lithe , graceful motion with delight ; every movement seem poetry itself .
She look like a very incarnation of Spring -- a if all the shimmer of young leaf and glow of young morning and evanescent sweetness of young blossom in a thousand spring have be embody in her .
When she come to him , radiant , her hand full of the lily , a couplet from a favourite poem dart into his head -- `` A blossom vermeil white That lightly break a faded flower sheath , Here , by God 's rood , be the one maid for me . ''
The next moment he be angry with himself for his folly .
She be , after all , nothing but a child -- and a child set apart from her fellow creature by her sad defect .
He must not let himself think nonsense .
`` Thank you .
These June lily be the sweet flower the spring bring u .
Do you know that their real name be the white narcissus ? ''
She look pleased and interested .
`` No , I do not know , '' she write .
`` I have often read of the white narcissus and wonder what it be like .
I never think of it be the same a my dear June lily .
I be glad you tell me .
I love flower very much .
They be my very good friend . ''
`` You could n't help be friend with the lily .
Like always take to like , '' say Eric .
`` Come and sit down on the old bench -- here , where you be sit that night I frighten you so badly .
I could not imagine who or what you be .
Sometimes I think I have dream you -- only , '' he add under his breath and unheard by her , `` I could never have dream anything half so lovely . ''
She sit down beside him on the old bench and look unshrinkingly in his face .
There be no boldness in her glance -- nothing but the most perfect , childlike trust and confidence .
If there have be any evil in his heart -- any skulking thought , he be afraid to acknowledge -- those eye must have search it out and sham it .
But he could meet them unafraid .
Then she write , `` I be very much frighten .
You must have think me very silly , but I have never see any man except Uncle Thomas and Neil and the egg peddler .
And you be different from them -- oh , very , very different .
I be afraid to come back here the next evening .
And yet , somehow , I want to come .
I do not want you to think I do not know how to behave .
I send Neil back for my bow in the morning .
I could not do without it .
I can not speak , you know .
Are you sorry ? ''
`` I be very sorry for your sake . ''
`` Yes , but what I mean be , would you like me good if I could speak like other people ? ''
`` No , it do not make any difference in that way , Kilmeny .
By the way , do you mind my call you Kilmeny ? ''
She look puzzled and write , `` What else should you call me ?
That be my name .
Everybody call me that . ''
`` But I be such a stranger to you that perhaps you would wish me to call you Miss Gordon . ''
`` Oh , no , I would not like that , '' she write quickly , with a distressed look on her face .
`` Nobody ever call me that .
It would make me feel a if I be not myself but somebody else .
And you do not seem like a stranger to me .
Is there any reason why you should not call me Kilmeny ? ''
`` No reason whatever , if you will allow me the privilege .
You have a very lovely name -- the very name you ought to have . ''
`` I be glad you like it .
Do you know that I be call after my grandmother and she be call after a girl in a poem ?
Aunt Janet have never like my name , although she like my grandmother .
But I be glad you like both my name and me .
I be afraid you would not like me because I can not speak . ''
`` You can speak through your music , Kilmeny . ''
She look pleased .
`` How well you understand , '' she write .
`` Yes , I can not speak or sing a other people can , but I can make my violin say thing for me . ''
`` Do you compose your own music ? ''
he ask .
But he saw she do not understand him .
`` I mean , do any one ever teach you the music you play here that even ? ''
`` Oh , no .
It just come a I think .
It have always be that way .
When I be very little Neil teach me to hold the violin and the bow , and the rest all come of itself .
My violin once belong to Neil , but he give it to me .
Neil be very good and kind to me , but I like you good .
Tell me about yourself . ''
The wonder of her grow upon him with every passing moment .
How lovely she be !
What dear little way and gesture she have -- way and gesture a artless and unstudied a they be effective .
And how strangely little her dumbness seem to matter after all !
She write so quickly and easily , her eye and smile give such expression to her mobile face , that voice be hardly miss .
They linger in the orchard until the long , languid shadow of the tree creep to their foot .
It be just after sunset and the distant hill be purple against the melt saffron of the sky in the west and the crystalline blue of the sky in the south .
Eastward , just over the fir wood , be cloud , white and high heaped like snow mountain , and the westernmost of them shine with a rosy glow a of sunset on an Alpine height .
The high world of air be still full of light -- perfect , stainless light , unmarred of earth shadow ; but down in the orchard and under the spruce the light have almost go , give place to a green , dewy dusk , make passionately sweet with the breath of the apple blossom and mint , and the balsamic odour that rain down upon them from the fir .
Eric tell her of his life , and the life in the great outer world , in which she be girlishly and eagerly interested .
She ask him many question about it -- direct and incisive question which show that she have already form decided opinion and view about it .
Yet it be plain to be see that she do not regard it a anything she might ever share herself .
Hers be the dispassionate interest with which she might have listen to a tale of the land of fairy or of some great empire long pass away from earth .
Eric discover that she have read a great deal of poetry and history , and a few book of biography and travel .
She do not know what a novel meant and have never hear of one .
Curiously enough , she be well inform regard politics and current event , from the weekly paper for which her uncle subscribed .
`` I never read the newspaper while mother be alive , '' she write , `` nor any poetry either .
She teach me to read and write and I read the Bible all through many time and some of the history .
After mother die Aunt Janet give me all her book .
She have a great many .
Most of them have be give to her a prize when she be a girl at school , and some of them have be give to her by my father .
Do you know the story of my father and mother ? ''
Eric nod .
`` Yes , Mrs. Williamson tell me all about it .
She be a friend of your mother . ''
`` I be glad you have hear it .
It be so sad that I would not like to tell it , but you will understand everything well because you know .
I never hear it until just before mother die .
Then she tell me all .
I think she have think father be to blame for the trouble ; but before she die she tell me she believe that she have be unjust to him and that he have not know .
She say that when people be die they saw thing more clearly and she saw she have make a mistake about father .
She say she have many more thing she want to tell me , but she do not have time to tell them because she die that night .
It be a long while before I have the heart to read her book .
But when I do I think them so beautiful .
They be poetry and it be like music put into word . ''
`` I will bring you some book to read , if you would like them , '' say Eric .
Her great blue eye gleam with interest and delight .
`` Oh , thank you , I would like it very much .
I have read mine over so often that I know them nearly all by heart .
One can not get tire of really beautiful thing , but sometimes I feel that I would like some new book . ''
`` Are you never lonely , Kilmeny ? ''
`` Oh , no , how could I be ?
There be always plenty for me to do , help Aunt Janet about the house .
I can do a great many thing '' -- she glance up at him with a pretty pride a her fly pencil trace the word .
`` I can cook and sew .
Aunt Janet say I be a very good housekeeper , and she do not praise people very often or very much .
And then , when I be not help her , I have my dear , dear violin .
That be all the company I want .
But I like to read and hear of the big world so far away and the people who live there and the thing that be do .
It must be a very wonderful place . ''
`` Would n't you like to go out into it and see it wonder and meet those people yourself ? ''
he ask , smile at her .
At once he saw that , in some way he could not understand , he have hurt her .
She snatch her pencil and write , with such swiftness of motion and energy of expression that it almost seem a if she have passionately exclaim the word aloud , `` No , no , no .
I do not want to go anywhere away from home .
I do not want ever to see stranger or have them see me .
I could not bear it . ''
He think that possibly the consciousness of her defect account for this .
Yet she do not seem sensitive about her dumbness and make frequent casual reference to it in her write remark .
Or perhaps it be the shadow on her birth .
Yet she be so innocent that it seem unlikely she could realize or understand the existence of such a shadow .
Eric finally decide that it be merely the rather morbid shrinking of a sensitive child who have be bring up in an unwholesome and unnatural way .
At last the lengthening shadow warn him that it be time to go .
`` You wo n't forget to come to-morrow evening and play for me , '' he say , rise reluctantly .
She answer by a quick little shake of her sleek , dark head , and a smile that be eloquent .
He watch her a she walk across the orchard , `` With the moon 's beauty and the moon 's soft pace , '' and along the wild cherry lane .
At the corner of the fir she pause and wave her hand to him before turn it .
When Eric reach home old Robert Williamson be have a lunch of bread and milk in the kitchen .
He look up , with a friendly grin , a Eric strode in , whistle .
`` Been have a walk , Master ? ''
he query .
`` Yes , '' say Eric .
Unconsciously and involuntarily he infuse so much triumph into the simple monosyllable that even old Robert felt it .
Mrs. Williamson , who be cut bread at the end of the table , lay down her knife and loaf , and look at the young man with a softly troubled expression in her eye .
She wonder if he have be back to the Connors orchard -- and if he could have see Kilmeny Gordon again .
`` You do n't discover a gold mine , I s ` pose ? ''
say old Robert dryly .
`` You look a if you might have . ''
CHAPTER VIII .
AT THE GATE OF EDEN When Eric go to the old Connors orchard the next evening he find Kilmeny wait for him on the bench under the white lilac tree , with the violin in her lap .
As soon a she saw him she catch it up and begin to play an airy delicate little melody that sound like the laughter of daisy .
When it be finish she drop her bow , and look up at him with flush cheek and question eye .
`` What do that say to you ? ''
she write .
`` It say something like this , '' answer Eric , fall into her humour smilingly .
`` Welcome , my friend .
It be a very beautiful evening .
The sky be so blue and the apple blossom so sweet .
The wind and I have be here alone together and the wind be a good companion , but still I be glad to see you .
It be an evening on which it be good to be alive and to wander in an orchard that be fine and white .
Welcome , my friend . ''
She clap her hand , look like a pleased child .
`` You be very quick to understand , '' she write .
`` That be just what I mean .
Of course I do not think it in just those word , but that be the FEELING of it .
I felt that I be so glad I be alive , and that the apple blossom and the white lilac and the tree and I be all pleased together to see you come .
You be quick than Neil .
He be almost always puzzle to understand my music , and I be puzzle to understand his .
Sometimes it frighten me .
It seem a if there be something in it try to take hold of me -- something I do not like and want to run away from . ''
Somehow Eric do not like her reference to Neil .
The idea of that handsome , low-born boy see Kilmeny every day , talk to her , sit at the same table with her , dwell under the same roof , meet her in the hundred intimacy of daily life , be distasteful to him .
He put the think away from him , and flung himself down on the long grass at her foot .
`` Now play for me , please , '' he say .
`` I want to lie here and listen to you . ''
`` And look at you , '' he might have add .
He could not tell which be the great pleasure .
Her beauty , more wonderful than any pictured loveliness he have ever see , delight him .
Every tint and curve and outline of her face be flawless .
Her music enthral him .
This child , he tell himself a he listen , have genius .
But it be be wholly waste .
He find himself think resentfully of the people who be her guardian , and who be responsible for her strange life .
They have do her a great and irremediable wrong .
How dare they doom her to such an existence ?
If her defect of utterance have be attend to in time , who know but that it might have be cure ?
Now it be probably too late .
Nature have give her a royal birthright of beauty and talent , but their selfish and unpardonable neglect have make it of no account .
What divine music she lure out of the old violin -- merry and sad , gay and sorrowful by turn , music such a the star of morning might have make sing together , music that the fairy might have dance to in their revel among the green hill or on yellow sand , music that might have mourn over the grave of a dead hope .
Then she drift into a still sweeter strain .
As he listen to it he realize that the whole soul and nature of the girl be reveal themselves to him through her music -- the beauty and purity of her thought , her childhood dream and her maiden revery .
There be no thought of concealment about her ; she could not help the revelation she be unconscious of make .
At last she lay her violin aside and write , `` I have do my best to give you pleasure .
It be your turn now .
Do you remember a promise you make me last night ?
Have you keep it ? ''
He give her the two book he have bring for her -- a modern novel and a volume of poetry unknown to her .
He have hesitate a little over the former ; but the book be so fine and full of beauty that he think it could not bruise the bloom of her innocence ever so slightly .
He have no doubt about the poetry .
It be the utterance of one of those great inspired soul whose pass tread have make the kingdom of their birth and labour a veritable Holy Land .
He read her some of the poem .
Then he talk to her of his college day and friend .
The minute pass very swiftly .
There be just then no world for him outside of that old orchard with it fall blossom and it shadow and it crooning wind .
Once , when he tell her the story of some college prank wherein the endless feud of freshman and sophomore figure , she clap her hand together accord to her habit , and laugh aloud -- a clear , musical , silvery peal .
It fell on Eric 's ear with a shock of surprise .
He think it strange that she could laugh like that when she could not speak .
Wherein lay the defect that close for her the gate of speech ?
Was it possible that it could be remove ?
`` Kilmeny , '' he say gravely after a moment 's reflection , during which he have look up a she sit with the ruddy sunlight fall through the lilac branch on her bare , silky head like a shower of red jewel , `` do you mind if I ask you something about your inability to speak ?
Will it hurt you to talk of the matter with me ? ''
She shake her head .
`` Oh , no , '' she write , `` I do not mind at all .
Of course I be sorry I can not speak , but I be quite use to the thought and it never hurt me at all . ''
`` Then , Kilmeny , tell me this .
Do you know why it be that you be unable to speak , when all your other faculty be so perfect ? ''
`` No , I do not know at all why I can not speak .
I ask mother once and she tell me it be a judgment on her for a great sin she have commit , and she look so strangely that I be frighten , and I never speak of it to her or anyone else again . ''
`` Were you ever take to a doctor to have your tongue and organ of speech examine ? ''
`` No .
I remember when I be a very little girl that Uncle Thomas want to take me to a doctor in Charlottetown and see if anything could be do for me , but mother would not let him .
She say it would be no use .
And I do not think Uncle Thomas think it would be , either . ''
`` You can laugh very naturally .
Can you make any other sound ? ''
`` Yes , sometimes .
When I be pleased or frighten I have make little cry .
But it be only when I be not think of it at all that I can do that .
If I TRY to make a sound I can not do it at all . ''
This seem to Eric more mysterious than ever .
`` Do you ever try to speak -- to utter word ? ''
he persist .
`` Oh yes , very often .
All the time I be say the word in my head , just a I hear other people say them , but I never can make my tongue say them .
Do not look so sorry , my friend .
I be very happy and I do not mind so very much not be able to speak -- only sometimes when I have so many thought and it seem so slow to write them out , some of them get away from me .
I must play to you again .
You look too sober . ''
She laugh again , pick up her violin , and play a tinkling , roguish little melody a if she be try to tease him , look at Eric over her violin with luminous eye that dare him to be merry .
Eric smile ; but the puzzled look return to his face many time that evening .
He walk home in a brown study .
Kilmeny 's case certainly seem a strange one , and the more he think of it the stranger it seem .
`` It strike me a something very peculiar that she should be able to make sound only when she be not think about it , '' he reflect .
`` I wish David Baker could examine her .
But I suppose that be out of the question .
That grim pair who have charge of her would never consent . ''
CHAPTER IX .
THE STRAIGHT SIMPLICITY OF EVE For the next three week Eric Marshall seem to himself to be live two life , a distinct from each other a if he possess a double personality .
In one , he teach the Lindsay district school diligently and painstakingly ; solve problem ; argue on theology with Robert Williamson ; call at the home of his pupil and take tea in state with their parent ; go to a rustic dance or two and play havoc , all unwittingly , with the heart of the Lindsay maiden .
But this life be a dream of workaday .
He only LIVED in the other , which be spend in an old orchard , grassy and overgrown , where the minute seem to lag for sheer love of the spot and the June wind make wild harping in the old spruce .
Here every evening he meet Kilmeny ; in that old orchard they garner hour of quiet happiness together ; together they go wander in the fair field of old romance ; together they read many book and talk of many thing ; and , when they be tire of all else , Kilmeny play to him and the old orchard echoed with her lovely , fantastic melody .
At every meeting her beauty come home afresh to him with the old thrill of glad surprise .
In the interval of absence it seem to him that she could not possibly be as beautiful a he remember her ; and then when they meet she seem even more so .
He learn to watch for the undisguised light of welcome that always leap into her eye at the sound of his footstep .
She be nearly always there before him and she always show that she be glad to see him with the frank delight of a child watch for a dear comrade .
She be never in the same mood twice .
Now she be grave , now gay , now stately , now pensive .
But she be always charm .
Thrawn and twist the old Gordon stock might be , but it have at least this one offshoot of perfect grace and symmetry .
Her mind and heart , utterly unspoiled of the world , be as beautiful a her face .
All the ugliness of existence have pass her by , shrine in her double solitude of upbringing and muteness .
She be naturally quick and clever .
Delightful little flash of wit and humour sparkle out occasionally .
She could be whimsical -- even charmingly capricious .
Sometimes innocent mischief glimmer out in the unfathomable deep of her blue eye .
Sarcasm , even , be not unknown to her .
Now and then she puncture some harmless bubble of a young man 's conceit or masculine superiority with a bite little line of daintily write script .
She assimilate the idea in the book they read , speedily , eagerly , and thoroughly , always seize on the best and truest , and reject the false and spurious and weak with an unfailing intuition at which Eric marvel .
Hers be the spear of Ithuriel , try out the dross of everything and leave only the pure gold .
In manner and outlook she be still a child .
Yet now and again she be as old a Eve .
An expression would leap into her laughing face , a subtle meaning reveal itself in her smile , that hold all the lore of womanhood and all the wisdom of the age .
Her way of smile enchant him .
The smile always begin far down in her eye and flow outward to her face like a sparkling brook steal out of shadow into sunshine .
He know everything about her life .
She tell him her simple history freely .
She often mention her uncle and aunt and seem to regard them with deep affection .
She rarely speak of her mother .
Eric come somehow to understand , less from what she say than from what she do not say , that Kilmeny , though she have love her mother , have always be rather afraid of her .
There have not be between them the natural beautiful confidence of mother and child .
Of Neil , she write frequently at first , and seem very fond of him .
Later she cease to mention him .
Perhaps -- for she be marvellously quick to catch and interpret every fleeting change of expression in his voice and face -- she discern what Eric do not know himself -- that his eye cloud and grow moody at the mention of Neil 's name .
Once she ask him naively , `` Are there many people like you out in the world ? ''
`` Thousands of them , '' say Eric , laugh .
She look gravely at him .
Then she give her head a quick decide little shake .
`` I do not think so , '' she write .
`` I do not know much of the world , but I do not think there be many people like you in it . ''
One evening , when the far-away hill and field be scarf in gauzy purple , and the intervales be brim with golden mist , Eric carry to the old orchard a little limp , worn volume that hold a love story .
It be the first thing of the kind he have ever read to her , for in the first novel he have lent her the love interest have be very slight and subordinate .
This be a beautiful , passionate idyl exquisitely tell .
He read it to her , lie in the grass at her foot ; she listen with her hand clasp over her knee and her eye cast down .
It be not a long story ; and when he have finish it he shut the book and look up at her questioningly .
`` Do you like it , Kilmeny ? ''
he ask .
Very slowly she take her slate and write , `` Yes , I like it .
But it hurt me , too .
I do not know that a person could like anything that hurt her .
I do not know why it hurt me .
I felt a if I have lose something that I never have .
That be a very silly feeling , be it not ?
But I do not understand the book very well , you see .
It be about love and I do not know anything about love .
Mother tell me once that love be a curse , and that I must pray that it would never enter into my life .
She say it very earnestly , and so I believe her .
But your book teach that it be a blessing .
It say that it be the most splendid and wonderful thing in life .
Which be I to believe ? ''
`` Love -- real love -- be never a curse , Kilmeny , '' say Eric gravely .
`` There be a false love which IS a curse .
Perhaps your mother believe it be that which have enter her life and ruin it ; and so she make the mistake .
There be nothing in the world -- or in heaven either , a I believe -- so truly beautiful and wonderful and bless a love . ''
`` Have you ever love ? ''
ask Kilmeny , with the directness of phrase necessitate by her mode of communication which be sometimes a little terrible .
She ask the question simply and without embarrassment .
She know of no reason why love might not be discuss with Eric a other matter -- music and book and travel -- might be .
`` No , '' say Eric -- honestly , a he think , `` but every one have an ideal of love whom he hop to meet some day -- ` the ideal woman of a young man 's dream . '
I suppose I have mine , in some seal , secret chamber of my heart . ''
`` I suppose your ideal woman would be beautiful , like the woman in your book ? ''
`` Oh , yes , I be sure I could never care for an ugly woman , '' say Eric , laugh a little a he sit up .
`` Our ideal be always beautiful , whether they so translate themselves into reality or not .
But the sun be go down .
Time do certainly fly in this enchanted orchard .
I believe you bewitch the moment away , Kilmeny .
Your namesake of the poem be a somewhat uncanny maid , if I recollect aright , and think as little of seven year in elfland a ordinary folk do of half an hour on upper earth .
Some day I shall waken from a suppose hour 's lingering here and find myself an old man with white hair and rag coat , a in that fairy tale we read the other night .
Will you let me give you this book ?
I should never commit the sacrilege of read it in any other place than this .
It be an old book , Kilmeny .
A new book , savouring of the shop and market-place , however beautiful it might be , would not do for you .
This be one of my mother 's book .
She read it and love it .
See -- the faded rise leaf she place in it one day be there still .
I 'll write your name in it -- that quaint , pretty name of yours which always sound a if it have be specially invent for you -- ` Kilmeny of the Orchard ' -- and the date of this perfect June day on which we read it together .
Then when you look at it you will always remember me , and the white bud open on that rosebush beside you , and the rush and murmur of the wind in the top of those old spruce . ''
He hold out the book to her , but , to his surprise , she shake her head , with a deep flush on her face .
`` Wo n't you take the book , Kilmeny ?
Why not ? ''
She take her pencil and write slowly , unlike her usual quick movement .
`` Do not be offend with me .
I shall not need anything to make me remember you because I can never forget you .
But I would rather not take the book .
I do not want to read it again .
It be about love , and there be no use in my learning about love , even if it be all you say .
Nobody will ever love me .
I be too ugly . ''
`` You !
Ugly ! ''
exclaim Eric .
He be on the point of go off into a peal of laughter at the idea when a glimpse of her half averted face sober him .
On it be a hurt , bitter look , such a he remember see once before , when he have ask her if she would not like to see the world for herself .
`` Kilmeny , '' he say in astonishment , `` you do n't really think yourself ugly , do you ? ''
She nod , without look at him , and then write , `` Oh , yes , I know that I be .
I have know it for a long time .
Mother tell me that I be very ugly and that nobody would ever like to look at me .
I be sorry .
It hurt me much bad to know I be ugly than it do to know I can not speak .
I suppose you will think that be very foolish of me , but it be true .
That be why I do not come back to the orchard for such a long time , even after I have get over my fright .
I hat to think that YOU would think me ugly .
And that be why I do not want to go out into the world and meet people .
They would look at me a the egg peddler do one day when I go out with Aunt Janet to his wagon the spring after mother die .
He star at me so .
I know it be because he think me so ugly , and I have always hide when he come ever since . ''
Eric 's lip twitch .
In spite of his pity for the real suffering displayed in her eye , he could not help feeling amuse over the absurd idea of this beautiful girl believe herself in all seriousness to be ugly .
`` But , Kilmeny , do you think yourself ugly when you look in a mirror ? ''
he ask smile .
`` I have never look in a mirror , '' she write .
`` I never know there be such a thing until after mother die , and I read about it in a book .
Then I ask Aunt Janet and she say mother have break all the look glass in the house when I be a baby .
But I have see my face reflect in the spoon , and in a little silver sugar bowl Aunt Janet have .
And it IS ugly -- very ugly . ''
Eric 's face go down into the grass .
For his life he could not help laughing ; and for his life he would not let Kilmeny see him laugh .
A certain little whimsical wish take possession of him and he do not hasten to tell her the truth , a have be his first impulse .
Instead , when he dare to look up he say slowly , `` I do n't think you be ugly , Kilmeny . ''
`` Oh , but I be sure you must , '' she write protestingly .
`` Even Neil do .
He tell me I be kind and nice , but one day I ask him if he think me very ugly , and he look away and would not speak , so I know what he think about it , too .
Do not let u speak of this again .
It make me feel sorry and spoil everything .
I forget it at other time .
Let me play you some good-bye music , and do not feel vexed because I would not take your book .
It would only make me unhappy to read it . ''
`` I be not vexed , '' say Eric , `` and I think you will take it some day yet -- after I have show you something I want you to see .
Never mind about your look , Kilmeny .
Beauty be n't everything . ''
`` Oh , it be a great deal , '' she write naively .
`` But you do like me , even though I be so ugly , do n't you ?
You like me because of my beautiful music , do n't you ? ''
`` I like you very much , Kilmeny , '' answer Eric , laugh a little ; but there be in his voice a tender note of which he be unconscious .
Kilmeny be aware of it , however , and she pick up her violin with a pleased smile .
He leave her play there , and all the way through the dim resinous spruce wood her music follow him like an invisible guardian spirit .
`` Kilmeny the Beautiful ! ''
he murmur , `` and yet , good heaven , the child think she be ugly -- she with a face more lovely than ever an artist dreamed of !
A girl of eighteen who have never look in a mirror !
I wonder if there be another such in any civilized country in the world .
What could have possess her mother to tell her such a falsehood ?
I wonder if Margaret Gordon could have be quite sane .
It be strange that Neil have never tell her the truth .
Perhaps he do n't want her to find out . ''
Eric have meet Neil Gordon a few evening before this , at a country dance where Neil have play the violin for the dancer .
Influenced by curiosity he have seek the lad 's acquaintance .
Neil be friendly and talkative at first ; but at the first hint concern the Gordons which Eric throw out skilfully his face and manner change .
He look secretive and suspicious , almost sinister .
A sullen look creep into his big black eye and he draw his bow across the violin string with a discordant screech , a if to terminate the conversation .
Plainly nothing be to be find out from him about Kilmeny and her grim guardian .
CHAPTER X .
A TROUBLING OF THE WATERS One evening in late June Mrs. Williamson be sit by her kitchen window .
Her knitting lay unheeded in her lap , and Timothy , though he nestle ingratiatingly against her foot a he lay on the rug and purr his loud , be unregarded .
She rest her face on her hand and look out of the window , across the distant harbour , with troubled eye .
`` I guess I must speak , '' she think wistfully .
`` I hate to do it .
I always do hate meddling .
My mother always use to say that ninety-nine time out of a hundred the last state of a meddler and them she meddle with be bad than the first .
But I guess it 's my duty .
I be Margaret 's friend , and it be my duty to protect her child any way I can .
If the Master do go back across there to meet her I must tell him what I think about it . ''
Overhead in his room , Eric be walk about whistle .
Presently he come downstairs , think of the orchard , and the girl who would be wait for him there .
As he cross the little front entry he hear Mrs. Williamson 's voice call to him .
`` Mr. Marshall , will you please come here a moment ? ''
He go out to the kitchen .
Mrs. Williamson look at him deprecatingly .
There be a flush on her faded cheek and her voice tremble .
`` Mr. Marshall , I want to ask you a question .
Perhaps you will think it be n't any of my business .
But it be n't because I want to meddle .
No , no .
It be only because I think I ought to speak .
I have think it over for a long time , and it seem to me that I ought to speak .
I hope you wo n't be angry , but even if you be I must say what I have to say .
Are you go back to the old Connors orchard to meet Kilmeny Gordon ? ''
For a moment an angry flush burn in Eric 's face .
It be more Mrs. Williamson 's tone than her word which startle and annoy him .
`` Yes , I be , Mrs. Williamson , '' he say coldly .
`` What of it ? ''
`` Then , sir , '' say Mrs. Williamson with more firmness , `` I have get to tell you that I do n't think you be do right .
I have be suspect all along that that be where you go every evening , but I have n't say a word to any one about it .
Even my husband do n't know .
But tell me this , Master .
Do Kilmeny 's uncle and aunt know that you be meet her there ? ''
`` Why , '' say Eric , in some confusion , `` I -- I do not know whether they do or not .
But Mrs. Williamson , surely you do not suspect me of mean any harm or wrong to Kilmeny Gordon ? ''
`` No , I do n't , Master .
I might think it of some men , but never of you .
I do n't for a minute think that you would do her or any woman any wilful wrong .
But you may do her great harm for all that .
I want you to stop and think about it .
I guess you have n't think .
Kilmeny ca n't know anything about the world or about men , and she may get to think too much of you .
That might break her heart , because you could n't ever marry a dumb girl like her .
So I do n't think you ought to be meet her so often in this fashion .
It be n't right , Master .
Do n't go to the orchard again . ''
Without a word Eric turn away , and go upstairs to his room .
Mrs. Williamson pick up her knitting with a sigh .
`` That 's do , Timothy , and I 'm real thankful , '' she say .
`` I guess there 'll be no need of say anything more .
Mr. Marshall be a fine young man , only a little thoughtless .
Now that he 's get his eye open I 'm sure he 'll do what be right .
I do n't want Margaret 's child make unhappy . ''
Her husband come to the kitchen door and sit down on the step to enjoy his even smoke , talk between whiff to his wife of Elder Tracy 's church row , and Mary Alice Martin 's beau , the price Jake Crosby be give for egg , the quantity of hay yield by the hill meadow , the trouble he be have with old Molly 's calf , and the respective merit of Plymouth Rock and Brahma rooster .
Mrs. Williamson answer at random , and hear not one word in ten .
`` What 's get the Master , Mother ? ''
inquire old Robert , presently .
`` I hear him stride up and down in his room ` sif he be cage .
Sure you do n't lock him in by mistake ? ''
`` Maybe he 's worry over the way Seth Tracy 's acting in school , '' suggest Mrs. Williamson , who do not choose that her gossipy husband should suspect the truth about Eric and Kilmeny Gordon .
`` Shucks , he need n't worry a morsel over that .
Seth 'll quiet down as soon a he find he ca n't run the Master .
He 's a rare good teacher -- well 'n Mr. West be even , and that 's say something .
The trustee be hop he 'll stay for another term .
They 're go to ask him at the school meeting to-morrow , and offer him a raise of supplement . ''
Upstairs , in his little room under the eaves , Eric Marshall be in the grip of the most intense and overwhelming emotion he have ever experience .
Up and down , to and fro , he walk , with set lip and clench hand .
When he be weary out he fling himself on a chair by the window and wrestle with the flood of feeling .
Mrs. Williamson 's word have tear away the delusive veil with which he have bind his eye .
He be face to face with the knowledge that he love Kilmeny Gordon with the love that come but once , and be for all time .
He wonder how he could have be so long blind to it .
He know that he must have love her ever since their first meeting that May evening in the old orchard .
And he know that he must choose between two alternative -- either he must never go to the orchard again , or he must go a an avowed lover to woo him a wife .
Worldly prudence , his inheritance from a long line of thrifty , cool-headed ancestor , be strong in Eric , and he do not yield easily or speedily to the dictate of his passion .
All night he struggle against the new emotion that threaten to sweep away the `` common sense '' which David Baker have bid him take with him when he go a-wooing .
Would not a marriage with Kilmeny Gordon be an unwise thing from any standpoint ?
Then something strong and great and more vital than wisdom or unwisdom rise up in him and master him .
Kilmeny , beautiful , dumb Kilmeny be , a he have once involuntarily think , `` the one maid '' for him .
Nothing should part them .
The mere idea of never see her again be so unbearable that he laugh at himself for have count it a possible alternative .
`` If I can win Kilmeny 's love I shall ask her to be my wife , '' he say , look out of the window to the dark , southwestern hill beyond which lay his orchard .
The velvet sky over it be still starry ; but the water of the harbour be begin to grow silvery in the reflection of the dawn that be break in the east .
`` Her misfortune will only make her dearer to me .
I can not realize that a month ago I do not know her .
It seem to me that she have be a part of my life for ever .
I wonder if she be grieve that I do not go to the orchard last night -- if she wait for me .
If she do , she do not know it herself yet .
It will be my sweet task to teach her what love mean , and no man have ever have a lovelier , purer , pupil . ''
At the annual school meeting , the next afternoon , the trustee ask Eric to take the Lindsay school for the following year .
He consent unhesitatingly .
That evening he go to Mrs. Williamson , a she wash her tea dish in the kitchen .
`` Mrs. Williamson , I be go back to the old Connors orchard to see Kilmeny again to-night . ''
She look at him reproachfully .
`` Well , Master , I have no more to say .
I suppose it would n't be of any use if I have .
But you know what I think of it . ''
`` I intend to marry Kilmeny Gordon if I can win her . ''
An expression of amazement come into the good woman 's face .
She look scrutinizingly at the firm mouth and steady gray eye for a moment .
Then she say in a troubled voice , `` Do you think that be wise , Master ?
I suppose Kilmeny be pretty ; the egg peddler tell me she be ; and no doubt she be a good , nice girl .
But she would n't be a suitable wife for you -- a girl that ca n't speak . ''
`` That do n't make any difference to me . ''
`` But what will your people say ? ''
`` I have no ` people ' except my father .
When he see Kilmeny he will understand .
She be all the world to me , Mrs. Williamson . ''
`` As long a you believe that there be nothing more to be say , '' be the quiet answer , `` I 'd be a little bit afraid if I be you , though .
But young people never think of those thing . ''
`` My only fear be that she wo n't care for me , '' say Eric soberly .
Mrs. Williamson survey the handsome , broad-shouldered young man shrewdly .
`` I do n't think there be many woman would say you ` no ' , Master .
I wish you well in your wooing , though I ca n't help think you 're do a daft-like thing .
I hope you wo n't have any trouble with Thomas and Janet .
They be so different from other folk there be no knowing .
But take my advice , Master , and go and see them about it right off .
Do n't go on meeting Kilmeny unbeknownst to them . ''
`` I shall certainly take your advice , '' say Eric , gravely .
`` I should have go to them before .
It be merely thoughtlessness on my part .
Possibly they do know already .
Kilmeny may have tell them . ''
Mrs. Williamson shake her head decidedly .
`` No , no , Master , she have n't .
They 'd never have let her go on meeting you there if they have know .
I know them too well to think of that for a moment .
Go you straight to them and say to them just what you have say to me .
That be your best plan , Master .
And take care of Neil .
People say he have a notion of Kilmeny himself .
He 'll do you a bad turn if he can , I 've no doubt .
Them foreigner ca n't be trust -- and he 's just as much a foreigner a his parent before him -- though he HAS be bring up on oatmeal and the short catechism , a the old saying have it .
I feel that somehow -- I always feel it when I look at him sing in the choir . ''
`` Oh , I be not afraid of Neil , '' say Eric carelessly .
`` He could n't help love Kilmeny -- nobody could . ''
`` I suppose every young man think that about his girl -- if he 's the right sort of young man , '' say Mrs. Williamson with a little sigh .
She watch Eric out of sight anxiously .
`` I hope it 'll all come out right , '' she think .
`` I hope he ai n't make an awful mistake -- but -- I 'm afraid .
Kilmeny must be very pretty to have bewitch him so .
Well , I suppose there be no use in my worrying over it .
But I do wish he have never go back to that old orchard and see her . ''
CHAPTER XI .
A LOVER AND HIS LASS Kilmeny be in the orchard when Eric reach it , and he linger for a moment in the shadow of the spruce wood to dream over her beauty .
The orchard have lately overflow in wave of old-fashioned caraway , and she be stand in the midst of it sea of bloom , with the lace-like blossom sway around her in the wind .
She wear the simple dress of pale blue print in which he have first see her ; silk attire could not well have become her loveliness .
She have weave herself a chaplet of half open white rosebud and place it on her dark hair , where the delicate blossom seem less wonderful than her face .
When Eric step through the gap she run to meet him with outstretched hand , smile .
He take her hand and look into her eye with an expression before which hers for the first time falter .
She look down , and a warm blush strain the ivory curve of her cheek and throat .
His heart bound , for in that blush he recognize the banner of love 's vanguard .
`` Are you glad to see me , Kilmeny ? ''
he ask , in a low significant tone .
She nod , and write in a somewhat embarrassed fashion , `` Yes .
Why do you ask ?
You know I be always glad to see you .
I be afraid you would not come .
You do not come last night and I be so sorry .
Nothing in the orchard seem nice any longer .
I could n't even play .
I try to , and my violin only cry .
I wait until it be dark and then I go home . ''
`` I be sorry you be disappoint , Kilmeny .
I could n't come last night .
Some day I shall tell you why .
I stay home to learn a new lesson .
I be sorry you miss me -- no , I be glad .
Can you understand how a person may be glad and sorry for the same thing ? ''
She nod again , with a return of her usual sweet composure .
`` Yes , I could not have understood once , but I can now .
Did you learn your new lesson ? ''
`` Yes , very thoroughly .
It be a delightful lesson when I once understand it .
I must try to teach it to you some day .
Come over to the old bench , Kilmeny .
There be something I want to say to you .
But first , will you give me a rise ? ''
She run to the bush , and , after careful deliberation , select a perfect half-open bud and bring it to him -- a white bud with a faint , sunrise flush about it golden heart .
`` Thank you .
It be as beautiful as -- a a woman I know , '' Eric say .
A wistful look come into her face at his word , and she walk with a droop head across the orchard to the bench .
`` Kilmeny , '' he say , seriously , `` I be go to ask you to do something for me .
I want you to take me home with you and introduce me to your uncle and aunt . ''
She lift her head and star at him incredulously , a if he have ask her to do something wildly impossible .
Understanding from his grave face that he mean what he say , a look of dismay dawn in her eye .
She shake her head almost violently and seem to be make a passionate , instinctive effort to speak .
Then she catch up her pencil and write with feverish haste : `` I can not do that .
Do not ask me to .
You do not understand .
They would be very angry .
They do not want to see any one come to the house .
And they would never let me come here again .
Oh , you do not mean it ? ''
He pity her for the pain and bewilderment in her eye ; but he take her slender hand in his and say firmly , `` Yes , Kilmeny , I do mean it .
It be not quite right for u to be meet each other here a we have be do , without the knowledge and consent of your friend .
You can not now understand this , but -- believe me -- it be so . ''
She look questioningly , pityingly into his eye .
What she read there seem to convince her , for she turn very pale and an expression of hopelessness come into her face .
Releasing her hand , she write slowly , `` If you say it be wrong I must believe it .
I do not know anything so pleasant could be wrong .
But if it be wrong we must not meet here any more .
Mother tell me I must never do anything that be wrong .
But I do not know this be wrong . ''
`` It be not wrong for you , Kilmeny .
But it be a little wrong for me , because I know well -- or rather , should have know well .
I do n't stop to think , a the child say .
Some day you will understand fully .
Now , you will take me to your uncle and aunt , and after I have say to them what I want to say it will be all right for u to meet here or anywhere . ''
She shake her head .
`` No , '' she write , `` Uncle Thomas and Aunt Janet will tell you to go away and never come back .
And they will never let me come here any more .
Since it be not right to meet you I will not come , but it be no use to think of go to them .
I do not tell them about you because I know that they would forbid me to see you , but I be sorry , since it be so wrong . ''
`` You must take me to them , '' say Eric firmly .
`` I be quite sure that thing will not be a you fear when they hear what I have to say . ''
Uncomforted , she write forlornly , `` I must do it , since you insist , but I be sure it will be no use .
I can not take you to-night because they be away .
They go to the store at Radnor .
But I will take you to-morrow night ; and after that I shall not see you any more . ''
Two great tear brim over in her big blue eye and splash down on her slate .
Her lip quiver like a hurt child 's .
Eric put his arm impulsively about her and draw her head down upon his shoulder .
As she cry there , softly , miserably , he press his lip to the silky black hair with it coronal of rosebud .
He do not see two burn eye which be look at him over the old fence behind him with hatred and mad passion blaze in their depth .
Neil Gordon be crouch there , with clenched hand and heave breast , watch them .
`` Kilmeny , dear , do n't cry , '' say Eric tenderly .
`` You shall see me again .
I promise you that , whatever happen .
I do not think your uncle and aunt will be as unreasonable a you fear , but even if they be they shall not prevent me from meet you somehow . ''
Kilmeny lift her head , and wipe the tear from her eye .
`` You do not know what they be like , '' she write .
`` They will lock me into my room .
That be the way they always punish me when I be a little girl .
And once , not so very long ago , when I be a big girl , they do it . ''
`` If they do I 'll get you out somehow , '' say Eric , laugh a little .
She allow herself to smile , but it be a rather forlorn little effort .
She do not cry any more , but her spirit do not come back to her .
Eric talk gaily , but she only listen in a pensive , absent way , a if she scarcely hear him .
When he ask her to play she shake her head .
`` I can not think any music to-night , '' she write , `` I must go home , for my head ache and I feel very stupid . ''
`` Very well , Kilmeny .
Now , do n't worry , little girl .
It will all come out all right . ''
Evidently she do not share his confidence , for her head droop again a they walk together across the orchard .
At the entrance of the wild cherry lane she pause and look at him half reproachfully , her eyes fill again .
She seem to be bid him a mute farewell .
With an impulse of tenderness which he could not control , Eric put his arm about her and kiss her red , tremble mouth .
She start back with a little cry .
A burn colour swept over her face , and the next moment she flee swiftly up the darkening lane .
The sweetness of that involuntary kiss clung to Eric 's lip a he go homeward , half-intoxicating him .
He know that it have open the gate of womanhood to Kilmeny .
Never again , he felt , would her eye meet his with their old unclouded frankness .
When next he look into them he know that he should see there the consciousness of his kiss .
Behind her in the orchard that night Kilmeny have leave her childhood .
CHAPTER XII .
A PRISONER OF LOVE When Eric betook himself to the orchard the next evening he have to admit that he felt rather nervous .
He do not know how the Gordons would receive him and certainly the report he have hear of them be not encouraging , to say the least of it .
Even Mrs. Williamson , when he have tell her where he be go , seem to look upon him a one bent on beard a lion in his den .
`` I do hope they wo n't be very uncivil to you , Master , '' be the best she could say .
He expect Kilmeny to be in the orchard before him , for he have be delay by a call from one of the trustee ; but she be nowhere to be see .
He walk across it to the wild cherry lane ; but at it entrance he stop short in sudden dismay .
Neil Gordon have step from behind the tree and stand confront him , with blaze eye , and lip which writhe in emotion so great that at first it prevent him from speaking .
With a thrill of dismay Eric instantly understand what must have take place .
Neil have discover that he and Kilmeny have be meet in the orchard , and beyond doubt have carry that tale to Janet and Thomas Gordon .
He realize how unfortunate it be that this should have happen before he have have time to make his own explanation .
It would probably prejudice Kilmeny 's guardian still far against him .
At this point in his thought Neil 's pent up passion suddenly find vent in a burst of wild word .
`` So you 've come to meet her again .
But she be n't here -- you 'll never see her again !
I hate you -- I hate you -- I hate you ! ''
His voice rise to a shrill scream .
He take a furious step nearer Eric a if he would attack him .
Eric look steadily in his eye with a calm defiance , before which his wild passion break like foam on a rock .
`` So you have be make trouble for Kilmeny , Neil , have you ? ''
say Eric contemptuously .
`` I suppose you have be play the spy .
And I suppose that you have tell her uncle and aunt that she have be meet me here .
Well , you have save me the trouble of do it , that be all .
I be go to tell them myself , tonight .
I do n't know what your motive in do this have be .
Was it jealousy of me ?
Or have you do it out of malice to Kilmeny ? ''
His contempt cow Neil more effectually than any display of anger could have do .
`` Never you mind why I do it , '' he mutter sullenly .
`` What I do or why I do it be no business of yours .
And you have no business to come sneak around here either .
Kilmeny wo n't meet you here again . ''
`` She will meet me in her own home then , '' say Eric sternly .
`` Neil , in behave a you have do you have show yourself to be a very foolish , undisciplined boy .
I be go straightway to Kilmeny 's uncle and aunt to explain everything . ''
Neil spring forward in his path .
`` No -- no -- go away , '' he implore wildly .
`` Oh , sir -- oh , Mr. Marshall , please go away .
I 'll do anything for you if you will .
I love Kilmeny .
I 've love her all my life .
I 'd give my life for her .
I ca n't have you come here to steal her from me .
If you do -- I 'll kill you !
I want to kill you last night when I saw you kiss her .
Oh , yes , I saw you .
I be watch -- spying , if you like .
I do n't care what you call it .
I have follow her -- I suspect something .
She be so different -- so change .
She never would wear the flower I pick for her any more .
She seem to forget I be there .
I know something have come between u .
And it be you , curse you !
Oh , I 'll make you sorry for it . ''
He be work himself up into a fury again -- the untamed fury of the Italian peasant thwart in his heart 's desire .
It override all the restraint of his training and environment .
Eric , amid all his anger and annoyance , felt a thrill of pity for him .
Neil Gordon be only a boy still ; and he be miserable and beside himself .
`` Neil , listen to me , '' he say quietly .
`` You be talk very foolishly .
It be not for you to say who shall or shall not be Kilmeny 's friend .
Now , you may just as well control yourself and go home like a decent fellow .
I be not at all frighten by your threat , and I shall know how to deal with you if you persist in interfere with me or persecute Kilmeny .
I be not the sort of person to put up with that , my lad . ''
The restrained power in his tone and look cow Neil .
The latter turn sullenly away , with another muttered curse , and plunge into the shadow of the fir .
Eric , not a little ruffled under all his external composure by this most unexpected and unpleasant encounter , pursue his way along the lane which wound on by the belt of woodland in twist and curve to the Gordon homestead .
His heart beat a he think of Kilmeny .
What might she not be suffer ?
Doubtless Neil have give a very exaggerated and distorted account of what he have see , and probably her dour relation be very angry with her , poor child .
Anxious to avert their wrath as soon a might be , he hurry on , almost forget his meeting with Neil .
The threat of the latter do not trouble him at all .
He think the angry outburst of a jealous boy matter but little .
What do matter be that Kilmeny be in trouble which his heedlessness have bring upon her .
Presently he find himself before the Gordon house .
It be an old building with sharp eaves and dormer window , it shingle stain a dark gray by long exposure to wind and weather .
Faded green shutter hang on the window of the low story .
Behind it grow a thick wood of spruce .
The little yard in front of it be grassy and prim and flowerless ; but over the low front door a luxuriant early-flowering rise vine clamber , in a riot of blood-red blossom which contrast strangely with the general bareness of it surroundings .
It seem to fling itself over the grim old house a if intent on bombard it with an alien life and joyousness .
Eric knock at the door , wonder if it might be possible that Kilmeny should come to it .
But a moment later it be open by an elderly woman -- a woman of rigid line from the hem of her lank , dark print dress to the crown of her head , cover with black hair which , despite it few gray thread , be still thick and luxuriant .
She have a long , pale face somewhat worn and wrinkled , but possess a certain harsh comeliness of feature which neither age nor wrinkle have quite destroy ; and her deep-set , light gray eye be not devoid of suggested kindliness , although they now survey Eric with an unconcealed hostility .
Her figure , in it merciless dress , be very angular ; yet there be about her a dignity of carriage and manner which Eric like .
In any case , he prefer her unsmiling dourness to vulgar garrulity .
He lift his hat .
`` Have I the honour of speak to Miss Gordon ? ''
he ask .
`` I be Janet Gordon , '' say the woman stiffly .
`` Then I wish to talk with you and your brother . ''
`` Come in . ''
She step aside and motion him to a low brown door open on the right .
`` Go in and sit down .
I 'll call Thomas , '' she say coldly , a she walk out through the hall .
Eric walk into the parlour and sit down as bidden .
He find himself in the most old-fashioned room he have ever see .
The solidly make chair and table , of some wood grow dark and polish with age , make even Mrs. Williamson 's `` parlour set '' of horsehair seem extravagantly modern by contrast .
The painted floor be cover with round braid rug .
On the centre table be a lamp , a Bible and some theological volume contemporary with the square-runged furniture .
The wall , wainscoted half way up in wood and cover for the rest with a dark , diamond - patterned paper , be hang with faded engraving , mostly of clerical-looking , bewigged personage in gown and band .
But over the high , undecorated black mantel-piece , in a ruddy glow of sunset light strike through the window , hung one which caught and hold Eric 's attention to the exclusion of everything else .
It be the enlarged `` crayon '' photograph of a young girl , and , in spite of the crudity of execution , it be easily the center of interest in the room .
Eric at once guess that this must be the picture of Margaret Gordon , for , although quite unlike Kilmeny 's sensitive , spirited face in general , there be a subtle , unmistakable resemblance about brow and chin .
The pictured face be a very handsome one , suggestive of velvety dark eye and vivid colouring ; but it be it expression rather than it beauty which fascinate Eric .
Never have he see a countenance indicative of more intense and stubborn will power .
Margaret Gordon be dead and bury ; the picture be a cheap and inartistic production in an impossible frame of gilt and plush ; yet the vitality in that face dominate it surroundings still .
What then must have be the power of such a personality in life ?
Eric realize that this woman could and would have do whatsoever she will , unflinchingly and unrelentingly .
She could stamp her desire on everything and everybody about her , mould them to her wish and will , in their own despite and in defiance of all the resistance they might make .
Many thing in Kilmeny 's upbringing and temperament become clear to him .
`` If that woman have tell me I be ugly I should have believe her , '' he think .
`` Ay , even though I have a mirror to contradict her .
I should never have dream of dispute or question anything she might have say .
The strange power in her face be almost uncanny , peer out a it do from a mask of beauty and youthful curve .
Pride and stubbornness be it salient characteristic .
Well , Kilmeny do not at all resemble her mother in expression and only very slightly in feature . ''
His reflection be interrupt by the entrance of Thomas and Janet Gordon .
The latter have evidently be call from his work .
He nod without speaking , and the two sit gravely down before Eric .
`` I have come to see you with regard to your niece , Mr. Gordon , '' he say abruptly , realize that there would be small use in beat about the bush with this grim pair .
`` I meet your -- I meet Neil Gordon in the Connors orchard , and I find that he have tell you that I have be meet Kilmeny there . ''
He pause .
Thomas Gordon nod again ; but he do not speak , and he do not remove his steady , pierce eye from the young man 's flushed countenance .
Janet still sit in a sort of expectant immovability .
`` I fear that you have form an unfavourable opinion of me on this account , Mr. Gordon , '' Eric go on .
`` But I hardly think I deserve it .
I can explain the matter if you will allow me .
I meet your niece accidentally in the orchard three week ago and hear her play .
I think her music very wonderful and I fell into the habit of come to the orchard in the evening to hear it .
I have no thought of harm her in any way , Mr. Gordon .
I think of her a a mere child , and a child who be doubly sacred because of her affliction .
But recently I -- I -- it occur to me that I be not behave quite honourably in encourage her to meet me thus .
Yesterday even I ask her to bring me here and introduce me to you and her aunt .
We would have come then if you have be at home .
As you be not we arrange to come tonight . ''
`` I hope you will not refuse me the privilege of see your niece , Mr. Gordon , '' say Eric eagerly .
`` I ask you to allow me to visit her here .
But I do not ask you to receive me a a friend on my own recommendation only .
I will give you reference -- men of stand in Charlottetown and Queenslea .
If you refer to them -- '' `` I do n't need to do that , '' say Thomas Gordon , quietly .
`` I know more of you than you think , Master .
I know your father well by reputation and I have see him .
I know you be a rich man 's son , whatever your whim in teach a country school may be .
Since you have keep your own counsel about your affair I suppose you do n't want your true position generally know , and so I have hold my tongue about you .
I know no ill of you , Master , and I think none , now that I believe you be not beguile Kilmeny to meet you unknown to her friend of set purpose .
But all this do n't make you a suitable friend for her , sir -- it make you all the more unsuitable .
The less she see of you the good . ''
Eric almost start to his foot in an indignant protest ; but he swiftly remember that his only hope of win Kilmeny lay in bring Thomas Gordon to another way of thinking .
He have get on good than he have expect so far ; he must not now jeopardize what he have gain by rashness or impatience .
`` Why do you think so , Mr. Gordon ? ''
he ask , regain his self-control with an effort .
`` Well , plain speaking be best , Master .
If you be to come here and see Kilmeny often she 'd most likely come to think too much of you .
I mistrust there 's some mischief do in that direction already .
Then when you go away she might break her heart -- for she be one of those who feel thing deeply .
She have be happy enough .
I know folk condemn u for the way she have be bring up , but they do n't know everything .
It be the best way for her , all thing consider .
And we do n't want her make unhappy , Master . ''
`` But I love your niece and I want to marry her if I can win her love , '' say Eric steadily .
He surprise them out of their self possession at last .
Both start , and look at him a if they could not believe the evidence of their ear .
`` Marry her !
Marry Kilmeny ! ''
exclaim Thomas Gordon incredulously .
`` You ca n't mean it , sir .
Why , she be dumb -- Kilmeny be dumb . ''
`` That make no difference in my love for her , although I deeply regret it for her own sake , '' answer Eric .
`` I can only repeat what I have already say , Mr. Gordon .
I want Kilmeny for my wife . ''
The old man lean forward and look at the floor in a troubled fashion , draw his bushy eyebrows down and tap the calloused tip of his finger together uneasily .
He be evidently puzzle by this unexpected turn of the conversation , and in grave doubt what to say .
`` What would your father say to all this , Master ? ''
he query at last .
`` I have often hear my father say that a man must marry to please himself , '' say Eric , with a smile .
`` If he felt tempt to go back on that opinion I think the sight of Kilmeny would convert him .
But , after all , it be what I say that matter in this case , be n't it , Mr. Gordon ?
I be well educate and not afraid of work .
I can make a home for Kilmeny in a few year even if I have to depend entirely on my own resource .
Only give me the chance to win her -- that be all I ask . ''
`` I do n't think it would do , Master , '' say Thomas Gordon , shake his head .
`` Of course , I dare say you -- you '' -- he try to say `` love , '' but Scotch reserve balk stubbornly at the terrible word -- `` you think you like Kilmeny now , but you be only a lad -- and lad ' fancy change . ''
`` Mine will not , '' Eric break in vehemently .
`` It be not a fancy , Mr. Gordon .
It be the love that come once in a lifetime and once only .
I may be but a lad , but I know that Kilmeny be the one woman in the world for me .
There can never be any other .
Oh , I 'm not speak rashly or inconsiderately .
I have weigh the matter well and look at it from every aspect .
And it all come to this -- I love Kilmeny and I want what any decent man who love a woman truly have the right to have -- the chance to win her love in return . ''
`` Well ! ''
Thomas Gordon draw a long breath that be almost a sigh .
`` Maybe -- if you feel like that , Master -- I do n't know -- there be some thing it be n't right to cross .
Perhaps we ought n't -- Janet , woman , what shall we say to him ? ''
Janet Gordon have hitherto speak no word .
She have sit rigidly upright on one of the old chair under Margaret Gordon 's insistent picture , with her knot , toil-worn hand grasp the carved arm tightly , and her eye fasten on Eric 's face .
At first their expression have be guard and hostile , but a the conversation proceed they lose this gradually and become almost kindly .
Now , when her brother appeal to her , she lean forward and say eagerly , `` Do you know that there be a stain on Kilmeny 's birth , Master ? ''
`` I know that her mother be the innocent victim of a very sad mistake , Miss Gordon .
I admit no real stain where there be no conscious wrong do .
Though , for that matter , even if there be , it would be no fault of Kilmeny 's and would make no difference to me as far a she be concern . ''
A sudden change sweep over Janet Gordon 's face , quite marvelous in the transformation it work .
Her grim mouth soften and a flood of repressed tenderness glorify her cold gray eye .
`` Well , then . ''
she say almost triumphantly , `` since neither that nor her dumbness seem to be any drawback in your eye I do n't see why you should not have the chance you want .
Perhaps your world will say she be not good enough for you , but she be -- she be '' -- this half defiantly .
`` She be a sweet and innocent and true-hearted lassie .
She be bright and clever and she be not ill look .
Thomas , I say let the young man have his will . ''
Thomas Gordon stand up , a if he consider the responsibility off his shoulder and the interview at an end .
`` Very well , Janet , woman , since you think it be wise .
And may God deal with him a he deal with her .
Good evening , Master .
I 'll see you again , and you be free to come and go a suit you .
But I must go to my work now .
I leave my horse stand in the field . ''
`` I will go up and send Kilmeny down , '' say Janet quietly .
She light the lamp on the table and leave the room .
A few minute later Kilmeny come down .
Eric rise and go to meet her eagerly , but she only put out her right hand with a pretty dignity and , while she look into his face , she do not look into his eye .
`` You see I be right after all , Kilmeny , '' he say , smile .
`` Your uncle and aunt have n't drive me away .
On the contrary they have be very kind to me , and they say I may see you whenever and wherever I like . ''
She smile , and go over to the table to write on her slate .
`` But they be very angry last night , and say dreadful thing to me .
I felt very frightened and unhappy .
They seem to think I have do something terribly wrong .
Uncle Thomas say he would never trust me out of his sight again .
I could hardly believe it when Aunt Janet come up and tell me you be here and that I might come down .
She look at me very strangely a she speak , but I could see that all the anger have go out of her face .
She seem pleased and yet sad .
But I be glad they have forgive u . ''
She do not tell him how glad she be , and how unhappy she have be over the thought that she be never to see him again .
Yesterday she would have tell him all frankly and fully ; but for her yesterday be a lifetime away -- a lifetime in which she have come into her heritage of womanly dignity and reserve .
The kiss which Eric have leave on her lip , the word her uncle and aunt have say to her , the tear she have shed for the first time on a sleepless pillow -- all have conspire to reveal her to herself .
She do not yet dream that she love Eric Marshall , or that he love her .
But she be no long the child to be make a dear comrade of .
She be , though quite unconsciously , the woman to be woo and win , exact , with sweet , innate pride , her due of allegiance .
CHAPTER XIII .
A SWEETER WOMAN NE'ER DREW BREATH Thenceforward Eric Marshall be a constant visitor at the Gordon homestead .
He soon become a favourite with Thomas and Janet , especially the latter .
He like them both , discover under all their outward peculiarity sterling worth and fitness of character .
Thomas Gordon be surprisingly well read and could floor Eric any time in argument , once he become sufficiently warm up to attain fluency of word .
Eric hardly recognize him the first time he saw him thus animate .
His bent form straighten , his sunken eye flash , his face flush , his voice rang like a trumpet , and he pour out a flood of eloquence which sweep Eric 's smart , up-to-date argument away like straw in the rush of a mountain torrent .
Eric enjoy his own defeat enormously , but Thomas Gordon be ashamed of be thus draw out of himself , and for a week afterwards confine his remark to `` Yes '' and `` No , '' or , at the outside , to a brief statement that a change in the weather be brew .
Janet never talk on matter of church and state ; such she plainly consider to be far beyond a woman 's province .
But she listen with lurk interest in her eye while Thomas and Eric pelt on each other with fact and statistic and opinion , and on the rare occasion when Eric score a point she permit herself a sly little smile at her brother 's expense .
Of Neil , Eric saw but little .
The Italian boy avoid him , or if they chance to meet passed him by with sullen , downcast eye .
Eric do not trouble himself greatly about Neil ; but Thomas Gordon , understand the motive which have lead Neil to betray his discovery of the orchard tryst , bluntly tell Kilmeny that she must not make such an equal of Neil a she have do .
`` You have be too kind to the lad , lassie , and he 's get presumptuous .
He must be teach his place .
I mistrust we have all make more of him than we should . ''
But most of the idyllic hour of Eric 's woo be spend in the old orchard ; the garden end of it be now a wilderness of rose -- roses red a the heart of a sunset , roses pink a the early flush of dawn , roses white a the snow on mountain peak , roses full blown , and rose in bud that be sweet than anything on earth except Kilmeny 's face .
Their petal fell in silken heap along the old path or clung to the lush grass among which Eric lay and dream , while Kilmeny play to him on her violin .
Eric promise himself that when she be his wife her wonderful gift for music should be cultivate to the utmost .
Her power of expression seem to deepen and develop every day , grow a her soul grow , take on new colour and richness from her ripen heart .
To Eric , the day be all page in an inspired idyl .
He have never dream that love could be so mighty or the world so beautiful .
He wonder if the universe be big enough to hold his joy or eternity long enough to live it out .
His whole existence be , for the time be , bound by that orchard where he woo his sweetheart .
All other ambition and plan and hope be set aside in the pursuit of this one aim , the attainment of which would enhance all others a thousand-fold , the loss of which would rob all others of their reason for existence .
His own world seem very far away and the thing of that world forgotten .
His father , on hearing that he have take the Lindsay school for a year , have write him a testy , amazed letter , ask him if he be demented .
`` Or be there a girl in the case ? ''
he write .
`` There must be , to tie you down to a place like Lindsay for a year .
Take care , master Eric ; you 've be too sensible all your life .
A man be bind to make a fool of himself at least once , and when you do n't get through with that in your teen it may be attack you now . ''
David also write , expostulate more gravely ; but he do not express the suspicion Eric know he must entertain .
`` Good old David !
He be quake with fear that I be up to something he ca n't approve of , but he wo n't say a word by way of attempt to force my confidence . ''
It could not long remain a secret in Lindsay that `` the Master '' be go to the Gordon place on court thought intent .
Mrs. Williamson keep her own and Eric 's counsel ; the Gordons say nothing ; but the secret leak out and great be the surprise and gossip and wonder .
One or two incautious people venture to express their opinion of the Master 's wisdom to the Master himself ; but they never repeat the experiment .
Curiosity be rife .
A hundred story be circulate about Kilmeny , all greatly exaggerate in the circulation .
Wise head be shake and the majority opine that it be a great pity .
The Master be a likely young fellow ; he could have his pick of almost anybody , you might think ; it be too bad that he should go and take up with that queer , dumb niece of the Gordons who have be bring up in such a heathenish way .
But then you never could guess what way a man 's fancy would jump when he set out to pick him a wife .
They guess Neil Gordon do n't like it much .
He seem to have get dreadful moody and sulky of late and would n't sing in the choir any more .
Thus the buzz of comment and gossip ran .
To those two in the old orchard it matter not a whit .
Kilmeny know nothing of gossip .
To her , Lindsay be a much of an unknown world a the city of Eric 's home .
Her thought stray far and wide in the realm of her fancy , but they never wander out to the little reality that hedge her strange life around .
In that life she have blossom out , a fair , unique thing .
There be time when Eric almost regret that one day he must take her out of her white solitude to a world that , in the last analysis , be only Lindsay on a large scale , with just the same pettiness of thought and feeling and opinion at the bottom of it .
He wish he might keep her to himself for ever , in that old , spruce-hidden orchard where the rose fell .
One day he indulge himself in the fulfillment of the whim he have form when Kilmeny have tell him she think herself ugly .
He go to Janet and ask her permission to bring a mirror to the house that he might have the privilege of be the first to reveal Kilmeny to herself exteriorly .
Janet be somewhat dubious at first .
`` There have n't be such a thing in the house for sixteen year , Master .
There never be but three -- one in the spare room , and a little one in the kitchen , and Margaret 's own .
She break them all the day it first strike her that Kilmeny be go to be bonny .
I might have get one after she die maybe .
But I do n't think of it ; and there 's no need of lass to be always prink at their look glass . ''
But Eric plead and argue skilfully , and finally Janet say , `` Well , well , have your own way .
You 'd have it anyway I think , lad .
You be one of those men who always get their own way .
But that be different from the men who TAKE their own way -- and that 's a mercy , '' she add under her breath .
Eric go to town the next Saturday and pick out a mirror that please him .
He have it ship to Radnor and Thomas Gordon bring it home , not know what it be , for Janet have think it just as well he should not know .
`` It 's a present the Master be make Kilmeny , '' she tell him .
She send Kilmeny off to the orchard after tea , and Eric slip around to the house by way of the main road and lane .
He and Janet together unpack the mirror and hung it on the parlour wall .
`` I never saw such a big one , Master , '' say Janet rather doubtfully , a if , after all , she distrust it gleaming , pearly depth and richly ornament frame .
`` I hope it wo n't make her vain .
She be very bonny , but it may not do her any good to know it . ''
`` It wo n't harm her , '' say Eric confidently .
`` When a belief in her ugliness have n't spoil a girl a belief in her beauty wo n't . ''
But Janet do not understand epigram .
She carefully remove a little dust from the polished surface , and frown meditatively at the by no mean beautiful reflection she saw therein .
`` I can not think what make Kilmeny suppose she be ugly , Master . ''
`` Her mother tell her she be , '' say Eric , rather bitterly .
`` Ah ! ''
Janet shoot a quick glance at the picture of her sister .
`` Was that it ?
Margaret be a strange woman , Master .
I suppose she think her own beauty have be a snare to her .
She WAS bonny .
That picture do n't do her justice .
I never like it .
It be take before she be -- before she meet Ronald Fraser .
We none of u think it very like her at the time .
But , Master , three year later it be like her -- oh , it be like her then !
That very look come in her face . ''
`` Kilmeny do n't resemble her mother , '' remark Eric , glance at the picture with the same feeling of mingled fascination and distaste with which he always regard it .
`` Does she look like her father ? ''
`` No , not a great deal , though some of her way be very like his .
She look like her grandmother -- Margaret 's mother , Master .
Her name be Kilmeny too , and she be a handsome , sweet woman .
I be very fond of my stepmother , Master .
When she die she give her baby to me , and ask me to be a mother to it .
Ah well , I try ; but I could n't fence the sorrow out of Margaret 's life , and it sometimes come to my mind that maybe I 'll not be able to fence it out of Kilmeny 's either . ''
`` That will be my task , '' say Eric .
`` You 'll do your best , I do not doubt .
But maybe it will be through you that sorrow will come to her after all . ''
`` Not through any fault of mine , Aunt Janet . ''
`` No , no , I 'm not say it will be your fault .
But my heart misgive me at time .
Oh , I dare say I be only a foolish old woman , Master .
Go your way and bring your lass here to look at your plaything when you like .
I 'll not make or meddle with it . ''
Janet betook herself to the kitchen and Eric go to look for Kilmeny .
She be not in the orchard and it be not until he have search for some time that he find her .
She be stand under a beech tree in a field beyond the orchard , lean on the long fence , with her hand clasp against her cheek .
In them she hold a white Mary-lily from the orchard .
She do not run to meet him while he be cross the pasture , a she would once have do .
She wait motionless until he be close to her .
Eric begin , half laughingly , half tenderly , to quote some line from her namesake ballad : '' ` Kilmeny , Kilmeny , where have you be ?
Long hae we seek baith holt and den , -- By linn , by ford , and greenwood tree !
Yet you be halesome and fair to see .
Where get you that joup o ' the lily sheen ?
That bonny snood o ' the birk sae green , And those rose , the fair that ever be see ?
Kilmeny , Kilmeny , where have you be ? '
`` Only it 's a lily and not a rise you be carry .
I might go on and quote the next couplet too -- '' ` Kilmeny look up with a lovely grace , But there be nae smile on Kilmeny 's face . '
`` Why be you look so sober ? ''
Kilmeny do not have her slate with her and could not answer ; but Eric guess from something in her eye that she be bitterly contrast the beauty of the ballad 's heroine with her own supposed ugliness .
`` Come down to the house , Kilmeny .
I have something there to show you -- something lovely than you have ever see before , '' he say , with boyish pleasure shin in his eye .
`` I want you to go and put on that muslin dress you wear last Sunday evening , and pin up your hair the same way you do then .
Run along -- do n't wait for me .
But you be not to go into the parlour until I come .
I want to pick some of those Mary-lilies up in the orchard . ''
When Eric return to the house with an armful of the long stem , white Madonna lily that bloom in the orchard Kilmeny be just come down the steep , narrow staircase with it striped carpeting of homespun drugget .
Her marvelous loveliness be bring out into brilliant relief by the dark wood work and shadow of the dim old hall .
She wear a trailing , cling dress of some creamy tint fabric that have be her mother 's .
It have not be alter in any respect , for fashion hold no sway at the Gordon homestead , and Kilmeny think that the dress leave nothing to be desire .
Its quaint style suit her admirably ; the neck be slightly cut away to show the round white throat , and the sleeve be long , full `` bishop , '' out of which her beautiful , slender hand slip like flower from their sheath .
She have cross her long braid at the back and pin them about her head like a coronet ; a late white rise be fasten low down on the left side . '' '
A man have give all other bliss And all his worldly wealth for this -- To waste his whole heart in one kiss Upon her perfect lip , ' '' quote Eric in a whisper a he watch her descend .
Aloud he say , `` Take these lily on your arm , let their bloom fall against your shoulder -- so .
Now , give me your hand and shut your eye .
Do n't open them until I say you may . ''
He lead her into the parlour and up to the mirror .
`` Look , '' he cry , gaily .
Kilmeny open her eye and look straight into the mirror where , like a lovely picture in a golden frame , she saw herself reflect .
For a moment she be bewilder .
Then she realize what it mean .
The lily fell from her arm to the floor and she turn pale .
With a little low , involuntary cry she put her hand over her face .
Eric pull them boyishly away .
`` Kilmeny , do you think you be ugly now ?
This be a truer mirror than Aunt Janet 's silver sugar bowl !
Look -- look -- look !
Did you ever imagine anything fair than yourself , dainty Kilmeny ? ''
She be blush now , and steal shy radiant glance at the mirror .
With a smile she take her slate and write naively , `` I think I be pleasant to look upon .
I can not tell you how glad I be .
It be so dreadful to believe one be ugly .
You can get use to everything else , but you never get use to that .
It hurt just the same every time you remember it .
But why do mother tell me I be ugly ?
Could she really have think so ?
Perhaps I have become well look since I grow up . ''
`` I think perhaps your mother have find that beauty be not always a blessing , Kilmeny , and think it wiser not to let you know you possess it .
Come , let u go back to the orchard now .
We must n't waste this rare evening in the house .
There be go to be a sunset that we shall remember all our life .
The mirror will hang here .
It be yours .
Do n't look into it too often , though , or Aunt Janet will disapprove .
She be afraid it will make you vain . ''
Kilmeny give one of her rare , musical laugh , which Eric never hear without a recurrence of the old wonder that she could laugh so when she could not speak .
She blow an airy little kiss at her mirrored face and turn from it , smile happily .
On their way to the orchard they meet Neil .
He go by them with an averted face , but Kilmeny shiver and involuntarily draw near to Eric .
`` I do n't understand Neil at all now , '' she write nervously .
`` He be not nice , a he use to be , and sometimes he will not answer when I speak to him .
And he look so strangely at me , too .
Besides , he be surly and impertinent to Uncle and Aunt . ''
`` Do n't mind Neil , '' say Eric lightly .
`` He be probably sulky because of some thing I say to him when I find he have spy on u . ''
That night before she go up stairs Kilmeny stole into the parlour for another glimpse of herself in that wonderful mirror by the light of a dim little candle she carry .
She be still linger there dreamily when Aunt Janet 's grim face appear in the shadow of the doorway .
`` Are you think about your own good look , lassie ?
Ay , but remember that handsome be a handsome do , '' she say , with grudging admiration -- for the girl with her flushed cheek and shin eye be something that even dour Janet Gordon could not look upon unmoved .
Kilmeny smile softly .
`` I 'll try to remember , '' she write , `` but oh , Aunt Janet , I be so glad I be not ugly .
It be not wrong to be glad of that , be it ? ''
The old woman 's face soften .
`` No , I do n't suppose it be , lassie , '' she concede .
`` A comely face be something to be thankful for -- a none know good than those who have never possess it .
I remember well when I be a girl -- but that be neither here nor there .
The Master think you be wonderful bonny , Kilmeny , '' she add , look keenly at the girl .
Kilmeny start and a scarlet blush scorch her face .
That , and the expression that flash into her eye , tell Janet Gordon all she wish to know .
With a stifled sigh she bid her niece good night and go away .
Kilmeny run fleetly up the stair to her dim little room , that look out into the spruce , and fling herself on her bed , bury her burn face in the pillow .
Her aunt 's word have reveal to her the hidden secret of her heart .
She know that she love Eric Marshall -- and the knowledge bring with it a strange anguish .
For be she not dumb ?
All night she lay star wide-eyed through the darkness till the dawn .
CHAPTER XIV .
IN HER SELFLESS MOOD Eric notice a change in Kilmeny at their next meeting -- a change that trouble him .
She seem aloof , abstract , almost ill at ease .
When he propose an excursion to the orchard he think she be reluctant to go .
The day that follow convince him of the change .
Something have come between them .
Kilmeny seem a far away from him a if she have in truth , like her namesake of the ballad , sojourn for seven year in the land `` where the rain never fell and the wind never blow , '' and have come back washed clean from all the affection of earth .
Eric have a bad week of it ; but he determine to put an end to it by plain speaking .
One evening in the orchard he tell her of his love .
It be an evening in August , with wheat field ripen to their harvestry -- a soft violet night make for love , with the distant murmur of an unquiet sea on a rocky shore sound through it .
Kilmeny be sit on the old bench where he have first see her .
She have be play for him , but her music do not please her and she lay aside the violin with a little frown .
It might be that she be afraid to play -- afraid that her new emotion might escape her and reveal themselves in music .
It be difficult to prevent this , so long have she be accustom to pour out all her feeling in harmony .
The necessity for restraint irk her and made of her bow a clumsy thing which no longer obey her wish .
More than ever at that instant do she long for speech -- speech that would conceal and protect where dangerous silence might betray .
In a low voice that tremble with earnestness Eric tell her that he love her -- that he have love her from the first time he have see her in that old orchard .
He speak humbly but not fearfully , for he believe that she love him , and he have little expectation of any rebuff .
`` Kilmeny , will you be my wife ? ''
he ask finally , take her hand in his .
Kilmeny have listen with averted face .
At first she have blush painfully but now she have grow very pale .
When he have finish speaking and be wait for her answer , she suddenly pull her hand away , and , put them over her face , burst into tear and noiseless sob .
`` Kilmeny , dear , have I alarm you ?
Surely you know before that I love you .
Do n't you care for me ? ''
Eric say , put his arm about her and try to draw her to him .
But she shake her head sorrowfully , and write with compressed lip , `` Yes , I do love you , but I will never marry you , because I can not speak . ''
`` Oh , Kilmeny , '' say Eric smiling , for he believe his victory win , `` that do n't make any difference to me -- you know it do n't , sweet .
If you love me that be enough . ''
But Kilmeny only shake her head again .
There be a very determined look on her pale face .
She write , `` No , it be not enough .
It would be do you a great wrong to marry you when I can not speak , and I will not do it because I love you too much to do anything that would harm you .
Your world would think you have do a very foolish thing and it would be right .
I have think it all over many time since something Aunt Janet say make me understand , and I know I be do right .
I be sorry I do not understand sooner , before you have learn to care so much . ''
`` Kilmeny , darling , you have take a very absurd fancy into that dear black head of yours .
Do n't you know that you will make me miserably unhappy all my life if you will not be my wife ? ''
`` No , you think so now ; and I know you will feel very badly for a time .
Then you will go away and after awhile you will forget me ; and then you will see that I be right .
I shall be very unhappy , too , but that be good than spoil your life .
Do not plead or coax because I shall not change my mind . ''
Eric do plead and coax , however -- at first patiently and smilingly , a one might argue with a dear foolish child ; then with vehement and distract earnestness , a he begin to realize that Kilmeny mean what she say .
It be all in vain .
Kilmeny grow paler and paler , and her eye reveal how keenly she be suffer .
She do not even try to argue with him , but only listen patiently and sadly , and shake her head .
Say what he would , entreat and implore a he might , he could not move her resolution a hairs-breadth .
Yet he do not despair ; he could not believe that she would adhere to such a resolution ; he felt sure that her love for him would eventually conquer , and he go home not unhappily after all .
He do not understand that it be the very intensity of her love which give her the strength to resist his pleading , where a more shallow affection might have yield .
It hold her back unflinchingly from do him what she believe to be a wrong .
CHAPTER XV .
AN OLD , UNHAPPY , FAR-OFF THING The next day Eric seek Kilmeny again and renew his pleading , but again in vain .
Nothing he could say , no argument which he could advance , be of any avail against her sad determination .
When he be finally compel to realize that her resolution be not to be shake , he go in his despair to Janet Gordon .
Janet listen to his story with concern and disappointment plainly visible on her face .
When he have finish she shake her head .
`` I 'm sorry , Master .
I ca n't tell you how sorry I be .
I have hop for something very different .
HOPED !
I have PRAYED for it .
Thomas and I be get old and it have weigh on my mind for year -- what be to become of Kilmeny when we would be go .
Since you come I have hop she would have a protector in you .
But if Kilmeny say she will not marry you I be afraid she 'll stick to it . ''
`` But she love me , '' cry the young man , `` and if you and her uncle speak to her -- urge her -- perhaps you can influence her -- '' `` No , Master , it would n't be any use .
Oh , we will , of course , but it will not be any use .
Kilmeny be as determined a her mother when once she make up her mind .
She have always be good and obedient for the most part , but once or twice we have find out that there be no move her if she do resolve upon anything .
When her mother die Thomas and I want to take her to church .
We could not prevail on her to go .
We do not know why then , but now I suppose it be because she believe she be so very ugly .
It be because she think so much of you that she will not marry you .
She be afraid you would come to repent have marry a dumb girl .
Maybe she be right -- maybe she be right . ''
`` I can not give her up , '' say Eric stubbornly .
`` Something must be do .
Perhaps her defect can be remedied even yet .
Have you ever think of that ?
You have never have her examine by a doctor qualify to pronounce on her case , have you ? ''
`` No , Master , we never take her to anyone .
When we first begin to fear that she be never go to talk Thomas want to take her to Charlottetown and have her look to .
He think so much of the child and he felt terrible about it .
But her mother would n't hear of it be do .
There be no use try to argue with her .
She say that it would be no use -- that it be her sin that be visit on her child and it could never be take away . ''
`` And do you give in meekly to a morbid whim like that ? ''
ask Eric impatiently .
`` Master , you do n't know my sister .
We HAD to give in -- nobody could hold out against her .
She be a strange woman -- and a terrible woman in many way -- after her trouble .
We be afraid to cross her for fear she would go out of her mind . ''
`` But , could you not have take Kilmeny to a doctor unknown to her mother ? ''
`` No , that be not possible .
Margaret never let her out of her sight , not even when she be grow up .
Besides , to tell you the whole truth , Master , we do n't think ourselves that it would be much use to try to cure Kilmeny .
It WAS a sin that make her a she be . ''
`` Aunt Janet , how can you talk such nonsense ?
Where be there any sin ?
Your sister think herself a lawful wife .
If Ronald Fraser think otherwise -- and there be no proof that he do -- HE commit a sin , but you surely do not believe that it be visit in this fashion on his innocent child ! ''
`` No , I be not mean that , Master .
That be n't where Margaret do wrong ; and though I never like Ronald Fraser over much , I must say this in his defence -- I believe he think himself a free man when he marry Margaret .
No , it 's something else -- something far bad .
It give me a shiver whenever I think of it .
Oh , Master , the Good Book be right when it say the sin of the parent be visit on the child .
There be n't a truer word in it than that from cover to cover . ''
`` What , in heaven 's name , be the meaning of all this ? ''
exclaim Eric .
`` Tell me what it be .
I must know the whole truth about Kilmeny .
Do not torment me . ''
`` I be go to tell you the story , Master , though it will be like open an old wound .
No live person know it but Thomas and me .
When you hear it you will understand why Kilmeny ca n't speak , and why it be n't likely that there can ever be anything do for her .
She do n't know the truth and you must never tell her .
It be n't a fit story for her ear , especially when it be about her mother .
Promise me that you will never tell her , no matter what may happen . ''
`` I promise .
Go on -- go on , '' say the young man feverishly .
Janet Gordon lock her hand together in her lap , like a woman who nerve herself to some hateful task .
She look very old ; the line on her face seem doubly deep and harsh .
`` My sister Margaret be a very proud , high-spirited girl , Master .
But I would not have you think she be unlovable .
No , no , that would be do a great injustice to her memory .
She have her fault a we all have ; but she be bright and merry and warm-hearted .
We all love her .
She be the light and life of this house .
Yes , Master , before the trouble that come on her Margaret be a winsome lass , sing like a lark from morning till night .
Maybe we spoil her a little -- maybe we give her too much of her own way .
`` Well , Master , you have hear the story of her marriage to Ronald Fraser and what come after , so I need not go into that .
I know , or use to know Elizabeth Williamson well , and I know that whatever she tell you would be the truth and nothing more or less than the truth .
`` Our father be a very proud man .
Oh , Master , if Margaret be too proud she get it from no stranger .
And her misfortune cut him to the heart .
He never speak a word to u here for more than three day after he hear of it .
He sit in the corner there with bow head and would not touch bite or sup .
He have not be very willing for her to marry Ronald Fraser ; and when she come home in disgrace she have not set foot over the threshold before he break out rail at her .
Oh , I can see her there at the door this very minute , Master , pale and trembling , cling to Thomas 's arm , her great eye change from sorrow and shame to wrath .
It be just at sunset and a red ray come in at the window and fell right across her breast like a stain of blood .
`` Father call her a hard name , Master .
Oh , he be too hard -- even though he be my father I must say he be too hard on her , broken-hearted a she be , and guilty of nothing more after all than a little willfulness in the matter of her marriage .
`` And father be sorry for it -- Oh , Master , the word be n't out of his mouth before he be sorry for it .
But the mischief be do .
Oh , I 'll never forget Margaret 's face , Master !
It haunt me yet in the black of the night .
It be full of anger and rebellion and defiance .
But she never answer him back .
She clench her hand and go up to her old room without say a word , all those mad feeling surge in her soul , and be hold back from speech by her sheer , stubborn will .
And , Master , never a word do Margaret say from that day until after Kilmeny be bear -- not one word , Master .
Nothing we could do for her softened her .
And we be kind to her , Master , and gentle with her , and never reproach her by so much a a look .
But she would not speak to anyone .
She just sit in her room most of the time and star at the wall with such awful eye .
Father implore her to speak and forgive him , but she never give any sign that she hear him .
`` I have n't come to the bad yet , Master .
Father sicken and take to his bed .
Margaret would not go in to see him .
Then one night Thomas and I be watch by him ; it be about eleven o'clock .
All at once he say , '' ` Janet , go up and tell the lass ' -- he always call Margaret that -- it be a kind of pet name he have for her -- ` that I 'm deein ' and ask her to come down and speak to me afore I 'm go . '
`` Master , I go .
Margaret be sit in her room all alone in the cold and dark , star at the wall .
I tell her what our father have say .
She never let on she hear me .
I plead and weep , Master .
I do what I have never do to any human creature -- I kneel to her and beg her , a she hop for mercy herself , to come down and see our die father .
Master , she would n't !
She never move or look at me .
I have to get up and go downstairs and tell that old man she would not come . ''
Janet Gordon lift her hand and strike them together in her agony of remembrance .
`` When I tell father he only say , oh , so gently , '' ` Poor lass , I be too hard on her .
She isna to blame .
But I canna go to meet her mother till our little lass have forgie 'n me for the name I call her .
Thomas , help me up .
Since she winna come to me I must e ` en go to her . '
`` There be no cross him -- we saw that .
He get up from his deathbed and Thomas help him out into the hall and up the stair .
I walk behind with the candle .
Oh , Master , I 'll never forget it -- the awful shadow and the storm wind wail outside , and father 's gasping breath .
But we get him to Margaret 's room and he stand before her , tremble , with his white hair fall about his sunken face .
And he pray Margaret to forgive him -- to forgive him and speak just one word to him before he go to meet her mother .
Master '' -- Janet 's voice rise almost to a shriek -- `` she would not -- she would not !
And yet she WANTED to speak -- afterwards she confess to me that she want to speak .
But her stubbornness would n't let her .
It be like some evil power that have grip hold of her and would n't let go .
Father might as well have plead with a graven image .
Oh , it be hard and dreadful !
She saw her father die and she never speak the word he pray for to him .
THAT be her sin , Master , -- and for that sin the curse fell on her unborn child .
When father understood that she would not speak he close his eye and be like to have fall if Thomas have not catch him . ''
` Oh , lass , you 're a hard woman , ' be all he say .
And they be his last word .
Thomas and I carry him back to his room , but the breath be go from him before we ever get him there .
`` Well , Master , Kilmeny be bear a month afterwards , and when Margaret felt her baby at her breast the evil thing that have hold her soul in it bondage lose it power .
She speak and weep and be herself again .
Oh , how she weep !
She implore u to forgive her and we do freely and fully .
But the one against whom she have sin most grievously be go , and no word of forgiveness could come to her from the grave .
My poor sister never know peace of conscience again , Master .
But she be gentle and kind and humble until -- until she begin to fear that Kilmeny be never go to speak .
We think then that she would go out of her mind .
Indeed , Master , she never be quite right again .
`` But that be the story and it 's a thankful woman I be that the telling of it be do .
Kilmeny ca n't speak because her mother would n't . ''
Eric have listen with a gray horror on his face to the gruesome tale .
The black tragedy of it appal him -- the tragedy of that merciless law , the most cruel and mysterious thing in God 's universe , which ordain that the sin of the guilty shall be visit on the innocent .
Fight against it a he would , the miserable conviction stole into his heart that Kilmeny 's case be indeed beyond the reach of any human skill .
`` It be a dreadful tale , '' he say moodily , get up and walk restlessly to and fro in the dim spruce-shadowed old kitchen where they be .
`` And if it be true that her mother 's willful silence cause Kilmeny 's dumbness , I fear , a you say , that we can not help her .
But you may be mistake .
It may have be nothing more than a strange coincidence .
Possibly something may be do for her .
At all event , we must try .
I have a friend in Queenslea who be a physician .
His name be David Baker , and he be a very skilful specialist in regard to the throat and voice .
I shall have him come here and see Kilmeny . ''
`` Have your way , '' assent Janet in the hopeless tone which she might have use in give him permission to attempt any impossible thing .
`` It will be necessary to tell Dr. Baker why Kilmeny can not speak -- or why you think she can not . ''
Janet 's face twitch .
`` Must that be , Master ?
Oh , it 's a bitter tale to tell a stranger . ''
`` Do n't be afraid .
I shall tell him nothing that be not strictly necessary to his proper understanding of the case .
It will be quite enough to say that Kilmeny may be dumb because for several month before her birth her mother 's mind be in a very morbid condition , and she preserve a stubborn and unbroken silence because of a certain bitter personal resentment . ''
`` Well , do a you think best , Master . ''
Janet plainly have no faith in the possibility of anything be do for Kilmeny .
But a rosy glow of hope flash over Kilmeny 's face when Eric tell her what he mean to do .
`` Oh , do you think he can make me speak ? ''
she write eagerly .
`` I do n't know , Kilmeny .
I hope that he can , and I know he will do all that mortal skill can do .
If he can remove your defect will you promise to marry me , dearest ? ''
She nod .
The grave little motion have the solemnity of a sacred promise .
`` Yes , '' she write , `` when I can speak like other woman I will marry you . ''
CHAPTER XVI .
DAVID BAKER 'S OPINION The next week David Baker come to Lindsay .
He arrive in the afternoon when Eric be in school .
When the latter come home he find that David have , in the space of an hour , capture Mrs. Williamson 's heart , worm himself into the good grace of Timothy , and become hail-fellow-well-met with old Robert .
But he look curiously at Eric when the two young men find themselves alone in the upstairs room .
`` Now , Eric , I want to know what all this be about .
What scrape have you get into ?
You write me a letter , entreat me in the name of friendship to come to you at once .
Accordingly I come post haste .
You seem to be in excellent health yourself .
Explain why you have inveigle me hither . ''
`` I want you to do me a service which only you can do , David , '' say Eric quietly .
`` I do n't care to go into the detail by letter .
I have meet in Lindsay a young girl whom I have learn to love .
I have ask her to marry me , but , although she care for me , she refuse to do so because she be dumb .
I wish you to examine her and find out the cause of her defect , and if it can be cure .
She can hear perfectly and all her other faculty be entirely normal .
In order that you may better understand the case I must tell you the main fact of her history . ''
This Eric proceed to do .
David Baker listen with grave attention , his eye fasten on his friend 's face .
He do not betray the surprise and dismay he felt at learn that Eric have fall in love with a dumb girl of doubtful antecedent ; and the strange case enlist his professional interest .
When he have hear the whole story he thrust his hand into his pocket and stride up and down the room several time in silence .
Finally he halt before Eric .
`` So you have do what I forebode all along you would do -- leave your common sense behind you when you go court . ''
`` If I do , '' say Eric quietly , `` I take with me something well and noble than common sense . ''
David shrug his shoulder .
`` You 'll have hard work to convince me of that , Eric . ''
`` No , it will not be difficult at all .
I have one argument that will convince you speedily -- and that be Kilmeny Gordon herself .
But we will not discuss the matter of my wisdom or lack of it just now .
What I want to know be this -- what do you think of the case a I have state it to you ? ''
David frown thoughtfully .
`` I hardly know what to think .
It be very curious and unusual , but it be not totally unprecedented .
There have be case on record where pre-natal influence have produce a like result .
I can not just now remember whether any be ever cure .
Well , I 'll see if anything can be do for this girl .
I can not express any further opinion until I have examine her . ''
The next morning Eric take David up to the Gordon homestead .
As they approach the old orchard a strain of music come float through the resinous morning arcade of the spruce wood -- a wild , sorrowful , appeal cry , full of indescribable pathos , yet marvelously sweet .
`` What be that ? ''
exclaim David , start .
`` That be Kilmeny play on her violin , '' answer Eric .
`` She have great talent in that respect and improvises wonderful melody . ''
When they reach the orchard Kilmeny rise from the old bench to meet them , her lovely luminous eye distend , her face flush with the excitement of mingle hope and fear .
`` Oh , ye god ! ''
mutter David helplessly .
He could not hide his amazement and Eric smile to see it .
The latter have not fail to perceive that his friend have until now consider him as little good than a lunatic .
`` Kilmeny , this be my friend , Dr. Baker , '' he say .
Kilmeny hold out her hand with a smile .
Her beauty , a she stand there in the fresh morning sunshine beside a clump of her sister lily , be something to take away a man 's breath .
David , who be by no mean lack in confidence and generally have a ready tongue where woman be concerned , find himself a mute and awkward a a school boy , a he bow over her hand .
But Kilmeny be charmingly at ease .
There be not a trace of embarrassment in her manner , though there be a pretty shyness .
Eric smile a he recall HIS first meeting with her .
He suddenly realize how far Kilmeny have come since then and how much she have develop .
With a little gesture of invitation Kilmeny lead the way through the orchard to the wild cherry lane , and the two men follow .
`` Eric , she be simply unutterable ! ''
say David in an undertone .
`` Last night , to tell you the truth , I have a rather poor opinion of your sanity .
But now I be consume with a fierce envy .
She be the lovely creature I ever saw . ''
Eric introduce David to the Gordons and then hurry away to his school .
On his way down the Gordon lane he meet Neil and be half startle by the glare of hatred in the Italian boy 's eye .
Pity succeed the momentary alarm .
Neil 's face have grow thin and haggard ; his eye be sink and feverishly bright ; he look year old than on the day when Eric have first see him in the brook hollow .
Prompted by sudden compassionate impulse Eric stop and hold out his hand .
`` Neil , ca n't we be friends ? ''
he say .
`` I be sorry if I have be the cause of inflict pain on you . ''
`` Friends !
Never ! ''
say Neil passionately .
`` You have take Kilmeny from me .
I shall hate you always .
And I 'll be even with you yet . ''
He stride fiercely up the lane , and Eric , with a shrug of his shoulder , go on his way , dismiss the meeting from his mind .
The day seem interminably long to him .
David have not return when he go home to dinner ; but when he go to his room in the evening he find his friend there , star out of the window .
`` Well , '' he say , impatiently , a David wheel around but still keep silence , `` What have you to say to me ?
Do n't keep me in suspense any long , David .
I have endure all I can .
To-day have seem like a thousand year .
Have you discover what be the matter with Kilmeny ? ''
`` There be nothing the matter with her , '' answer David slowly , fling himself into a chair by the window .
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` Just exactly what I say .
Her vocal organ be all perfect .
As far a they be concern , there be absolutely no reason why she should not speak . ''
`` Then why ca n't she speak ?
Do you think -- do you think -- '' `` I think that I can not express my conclusion in any good word than Janet Gordon use when she say that Kilmeny can not speak because her mother would n't .
That be all there be to it .
The trouble be psychological , not physical .
Medical skill be helpless before it .
There be great men than I in my profession ; but it be my honest belief , Eric , that if you be to consult them they would tell you just what I have tell you , neither more nor less . ''
`` Then there be no hope , '' say Eric in a tone of despair .
`` You can do nothing for her ? ''
David take from the back of his chair a crochet antimacassar with a lion rampant in the center and spread it over his knee .
`` I can do nothing for her , '' he say , scowl at that work of art .
`` I do not believe any living man can do anything for her .
But I do not say -- exactly -- that there be no hope . ''
`` Come , David , I be in no mood for guess riddle .
Speak plainly , man , and do n't torment me . ''
David frown dubiously and poke his finger through the hole which represent the eye of the king of beast .
`` I do n't know that I can make it plain to you .
It be n't very plain to myself .
And it be only a vague theory of mine , of course .
I can not substantiate it by any fact .
In short , Eric , I think it be possible that Kilmeny may speak sometime -- if she ever want it badly enough . ''
`` Wants to !
Why , man , she want to as badly a it be possible for any one to want anything .
She love me with all her heart and she wo n't marry me because she ca n't speak .
Do n't you suppose that a girl under such circumstance would ` want ' to speak as much a any one could ? ''
`` Yes , but I do not mean that sort of wanting , no matter how strong the wish may be .
What I do mean be -- a sudden , vehement , passionate inrush of desire , physical , psychical , mental , all in one , mighty enough to rend asunder the invisible fetter that hold her speech in bondage .
If any occasion should arise to evoke such a desire I believe that Kilmeny would speak -- and have once speak would thenceforth be normal in that respect -- ay , if she speak but the one word . ''
`` All this sound like great nonsense to me , '' say Eric restlessly .
`` I suppose you have an idea what you be talk about , but I have n't .
And , in any case , it practically mean that there be no hope for her -- or me .
Even if your theory be correct it be not likely such an occasion a you speak of will ever arise .
And Kilmeny will never marry me . ''
`` Do n't give up so easily , old fellow .
There HAVE be case on record where woman have change their mind . ''
`` Not woman like Kilmeny , '' say Eric miserably .
`` I tell you she have all her mother 's unfaltering will and tenacity of purpose , although she be free from any taint of pride or selfishness .
I thank you for your sympathy and interest , David .
You have do all you could -- but , heaven , what it would have mean to me if you could have help her ! ''
With a groan Eric flung himself on a chair and bury his face in his hand .
It be a moment which hold for him all the bitterness of death .
He have think that he be prepare for disappointment ; he have not know how strong his hope have really be until that hope be utterly take from him .
David , with a sigh , return the crochet antimacassar carefully to it place on the chair back .
`` Eric , last night , to be honest , I think that , if I find I could not help this girl , it would be the best thing that could happen , as far a you be concern .
But since I have see her -- well , I would give my right hand if I could do anything for her .
She be the wife for you , if we could make her speak ; yes , and by the memory of your mother '' -- David bring his fist down on the window sill with a force that shake the casement , -- `` she be the wife for you , speech or no speech , if we could only convince her of it . ''
`` She can not be convince of that .
No , David , I have lose her .
Did you tell her what you have tell me ? ''
`` I tell her I could not help her .
I do not say anything to her of my theory -- that would have do no good . ''
`` How do she take it ? ''
`` Very bravely and quietly -- ` like a winsome lady ' .
But the look in her eye -- Eric , I felt a if I have murder something .
She bid me good-bye with a pitiful smile and go upstairs .
I do not see her again , although I stay to dinner a her uncle 's request .
Those old Gordons be a queer pair .
I like them , though .
They be strong and staunch -- good friend , bitter enemy .
They be sorry that I could not help Kilmeny , but I saw plainly that old Thomas Gordon think that I have be meddle with predestination in attempt it . ''
Eric smile mechanically .
`` I must go up and see Kilmeny .
You 'll excuse me , wo n't you , David ?
My book be there -- help yourself . ''
But when Eric reach the Gordon house he saw only old Janet , who tell him that Kilmeny be in her room and refuse to see him .
`` She think you would come up , and she leave this with me to give you , Master . ''
Janet hand him a little note .
It be very brief and blot with tear .
`` Do not come any more , Eric , '' it run .
`` I must not see you , because it would only make it hard for u both .
You must go away and forget me .
You will be thankful for this some day .
I shall always love and pray for you . ''
`` KILMENY . ''
`` I MUST see her , '' say Eric desperately .
`` Aunt Janet , be my friend .
Tell her she must see me for a little while at least . ''
Janet shake her head but go upstairs .
She soon return .
`` She say she can not come down .
You know she mean it , Master , and it be of no use to coax her .
And I must say I think she be right .
Since she will not marry you it be well for her not to see you . ''
Eric be compel to go home with no good comfort than this .
In the morning , a it be Sunday , he drive David Baker to the station .
He have not slept and he look so miserable and reckless that David felt anxious about him .
David would have stay in Lindsay for a few day , but a certain critical case in Queenslea demand his speedy return .
He shake hand with Eric on the station platform .
`` Eric , give up that school and come home at once .
You can do no good in Lindsay now , and you 'll only eat your heart out here . ''
`` I must see Kilmeny once more before I leave , '' be all Eric 's answer .
That afternoon he go again to the Gordon homestead .
But the result be the same ; Kilmeny refuse to see him , and Thomas Gordon say gravely , `` Master , you know I like you and I be sorry Kilmeny think a she do , though maybe she be right .
I would be glad to see you often for your own sake and I 'll miss you much ; but a thing be I tell you plainly you 'd better not come here any more .
It will do no good , and the sooner you and she get over think about each other the good for you both .
Go now , lad , and God bless you . ''
`` Do you know what it be you be ask of me ? ''
say Eric hoarsely .
`` I know I be ask a hard thing for your own good , Master .
It be not a if Kilmeny would ever change her mind .
We have have some experience with a woman 's will ere this .
Tush , Janet , woman , do n't be weep .
You woman be foolish creature .
Do you think tear can wash such thing away ?
No , they can not blot out sin , or the consequence of sin .
It 's awful how one sin can spread out and broaden , till it eat into innocent life , sometimes long after the sinner have go to his own accounting .
Master , if you take my advice , you 'll give up the Lindsay school and go back to your own world as soon a may be . ''
CHAPTER XVII .
A BROKEN FETTER Eric go home with a white , haggard face .
He have never think it be possible for a man to suffer a he suffer then .
What be he to do ?
It seem impossible to go on with life -- there be NO life apart from Kilmeny .
Anguish wring his soul until his strength go from him and youth and hope turn to gall and bitterness in his heart .
He never afterwards could tell how he live through the following Sunday or how he teach school a usual on Monday .
He find out how much a man may suffer and yet go on living and working .
His body seem to him an automaton that move and speak mechanically , while his tortured spirit , pent-up within , endure pain that leave it impress on him for ever .
Out of that fiery furnace of agony Eric Marshall be to go forth a man who have put boyhood behind him for ever and look out on life with eye that saw into it and beyond .
On Tuesday afternoon there be a funeral in the district and , accord to custom , the school be close .
Eric go again to the old orchard .
He have no expectation of see Kilmeny there , for he think she would avoid the spot l she might meet him .
But he could not keep away from it , although the thought of it be an added torment , and he vibrate between a wild wish that he might never see it again , and a sick wonder how he could possibly go away and leave it -- that strange old orchard where he have meet and woo his sweetheart , watch her develop and blossom under his eye , like some rare flower , until in the space of three short month she have pass from exquisite childhood into still more exquisite womanhood .
As he cross the pasture field before the spruce wood he come upon Neil Gordon , build a long fence .
Neil do not look up a Eric pass , but sullenly go on driving pole .
Before this Eric have pity Neil ; now he be conscious of feel sympathy with him .
Had Neil suffer a he be suffer ?
Eric have enter into a new fellowship whereof the passport be pain .
The orchard be very silent and dreamy in the thick , deep tinted sunshine of the September afternoon , a sunshine which seem to possess the power of extract the very essence of all the odour which summer have store up in wood and field .
There be few flower now ; most of the lily , which have queen it so bravely along the central path a few day before , be wither .
The grass have become ragged and sere and unkempt .
But in the corner the torch of the goldenrod be kindle and a few misty purple aster nod here and there .
The orchard keep it own strange attractiveness , a some woman with youth long pass still preserve an atmosphere of remembered beauty and innate , indestructible charm .
Eric walk drearily and carelessly about it , and finally sit down on a half fall fence panel in the shadow of the overhang spruce bough .
There he give himself up to a reverie , poignant and bitter sweet , in which he live over again everything that have pass in the orchard since his first meeting there with Kilmeny .
So deep be his abstraction that he be conscious of nothing around him .
He do not hear stealthy footstep behind him in the dim spruce wood .
He do not even see Kilmeny a she come slowly around the curve of the wild cherry lane .
Kilmeny have seek the old orchard for the healing of her heartbreak , if heal be possible for her .
She have no fear of encounter Eric there at that time of day , for she do not know that it be the district custom to close the school for a funeral .
She would never have go to it in the evening , but she long for it continually ; it , and her memory , be all that be leave her now .
Years seem to have pass over the girl in those few day .
She have drunk of pain and break bread with sorrow .
Her face be pale and strain , with bluish , transparent shadow under her large wistful eye , out of which the dream and laughter of girlhood have go , but into which have come the potent charm of grief and patience .
Thomas Gordon have shake his head bodingly when he have look at her that morning at the breakfast table .
`` She wo n't stand it , '' he think .
`` She be n't long for this world .
Maybe it be all for the best , poor lass .
But I wish that young Master have never set foot in the Connors orchard , or in this house .
Margaret , Margaret , it 's hard that your child should have to be pay the reckoning of a sin that be sin before her birth . ''
Kilmeny walk through the lane slowly and absently like a woman in a dream .
When she come to the gap in the fence where the lane run into the orchard she lift her wan , droop face and saw Eric , sit in the shadow of the wood at the other side of the orchard with his bow head in his hand .
She stop quickly and the blood rush wildly over her face .
The next moment it ebb , leave her white a marble .
Horror fill her eye , -- blank , deadly horror , a the livid shadow of a cloud might fill two blue pool .
Behind Eric Neil Gordon be stand tense , crouch , murderous .
Even at that distance Kilmeny saw the look on his face , saw what he hold in his hand , and realize in one agonized flash of comprehension what it mean .
All this photograph itself in her brain in an instant .
She know that by the time she could run across the orchard to warn Eric by a touch it would be too late .
Yet she must warn him -- she MUST -- she MUST !
A mighty surge of desire seem to rise up within her and overwhelm her like a wave of the sea , -- a surge that sweep everything before it in an irresistible flood .
As Neil Gordon swiftly and vindictively , with the face of a demon , lift the axe he hold in his hand , Kilmeny spring forward through the gap .
`` ERIC , ERIC , LOOK BEHIND YOU -- LOOK BEHIND YOU ! ''
Eric start up , confuse , bewilder , a the voice come shriek across the orchard .
He do not in the least realize that it be Kilmeny who have call to him , but he instinctively obey the command .
He wheel around and saw Neil Gordon , who be look , not at him , but past him at Kilmeny .
The Italian boy 's face be ashen and his eye be fill with terror and incredulity , a if he have be check in his murderous purpose by some supernatural interposition .
The axe , lie at his foot where he have drop it in his unutterable consternation on hear Kilmeny 's cry tell the whole tale .
But before Eric could utter a word Neil turn , with a cry more like that of an animal than a human be , and flee like a hunted creature into the shadow of the spruce wood .
A moment later Kilmeny , her lovely face dewed with tear and sun over with smile , fling herself on Eric 's breast .
`` Oh , Eric , I can speak , -- I can speak !
Oh , it be so wonderful !
Eric , I love you -- I love you ! ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
NEIL GORDON SOLVES HIS OWN PROBLEM `` It be a miracle ! ''
say Thomas Gordon in an awed tone .
It be the first time he have speak since Eric and Kilmeny have rush in , hand in hand , like two child intoxicate with joy and wonder , and gasp out their story together to him and Janet .
`` Oh , no , it be very wonderful , but it be not a miracle , '' say Eric .
`` David tell me it might happen .
I have no hope that it would .
He could explain it all to you if he be here . ''
Thomas Gordon shake his head .
`` I doubt if he could , Master -- he , or any one else .
It be near enough to a miracle for me .
Let u thank God reverently and humbly that he have see fit to remove his curse from the innocent .
Your doctor may explain it a they like , lad , but I 'm think they wo n't get much near to it than that .
It be awesome , that be what it be .
Janet , woman , I feel a if I be in a dream .
Can Kilmeny really speak ? ''
`` Indeed I can , Uncle , '' say Kilmeny , with a rapturous glance at Eric .
`` Oh , I do n't know how it come to me -- I felt that I MUST speak -- and I do .
And it be so easy now -- it seem to me a if I could always have do it . ''
She speak naturally and easily .
The only difficulty which she seem to experience be in the proper modulation of her voice .
Occasionally she pitch it too high -- again , too low .
But it be evident that she would soon acquire perfect control of it .
It be a beautiful voice -- very clear and soft and musical .
`` Oh , I be so glad that the first word I say be your name , dearest , '' she murmur to Eric .
`` What about Neil ? ''
ask Thomas Gordon gravely , rouse himself with an effort from his abstraction of wonder .
`` What be we to do with him when he return ?
In one way this be a sad business . ''
Eric have almost forget about Neil in his overwhelming amazement and joy .
The realization of his escape from sudden and violent death have not yet have any opportunity to take possession of his thought .
`` We must forgive him , Mr. Gordon .
I know how I should feel towards a man who take Kilmeny from me .
It be an evil impulse to which he give way in his suffering -- and think of the good which have result from it . ''
`` That be true , Master , but it do not alter the terrible fact that the boy have murder in his heart , -- that he would have kill you .
An over-ruling Providence have save him from the actual commission of the crime and bring good out of evil ; but he be guilty in thought and purpose .
And we have care for him and instruct him a our own -- with all his fault we have love him !
It be a hard thing , and I do not see what we be to do .
We can not act a if nothing have happen .
We can never trust him again . ''
But Neil Gordon solve the problem himself .
When Eric return that night he find old Robert Williamson in the pantry regale himself with a lunch of bread and cheese after a trip to the station .
Timothy sit on the dresser in black velvet state and gravely address himself to the disposal of various tid-bits that come his way .
`` Good night , Master .
Glad to see you 're look more like yourself .
I tell the wife it be only a lover 's quarrel most like .
She 's be worry about you ; but she do n't like to ask you what be the trouble .
She ai n't one of them unfortunate folk who ca n't be happy athout they 're everlasting poke their nose into other people 's business .
But what kind of a rumpus be kick up at the Gordon place , to-night , Master ? ''
Eric look amaze .
What could Robert Williamson have hear so soon ?
`` What do you mean ? ''
he ask .
`` Why , u folks at the station know there must have be a to-do of some kind when Neil Gordon go off on the harvest excursion the way he do . ''
`` Neil go !
On the harvest excursion ! ''
exclaim Eric .
`` Yes , sir .
You know this be the night the excursion train leave .
They cross on the boat to-night -- special trip .
There be a dozen or so fellows from hereabouts go .
We be all stand around chat when Lincoln Frame drive up full speed and Neil jump out of his rig .
Just bolt into the office , get his ticket and out again , and on to the train without a word to any one , and a black look a the Old Scratch himself .
We be all too surprise to speak till he be go .
Lincoln could n't give u much information .
He say Neil have rush up to their place about dark , look a if the constable be after him , and offer to sell that black filly of his to Lincoln for sixty dollar if Lincoln would drive him to the station in time to catch the excursion train .
The filly be Neil 's own , and Lincoln have be want to buy her but Neil would never hear to it afore .
Lincoln jump at the chance .
Neil have bring the filly with him , and Lincoln hitch right up and take him to the station .
Neil have n't no luggage of any kind and would n't open his mouth the whole way up , Lincoln say .
We conclude him and old Thomas must have have a row .
D 'ye know anything about it ?
Or be you so wrap up in sweethearting that you do n't hear or see nothing else ? ''
Eric reflect rapidly .
He be greatly relieve to find that Neil have go .
He would never return and this be best for all concern .
Old Robert must be tell a part of the truth at least , since it would soon become known that Kilmeny could speak .
`` There be some trouble at the Gordon place to-night , Mr. Williamson , '' he say quietly .
`` Neil Gordon behave rather badly and frighten Kilmeny terribly , -- so terribly that a very surprising thing have happen .
She have find herself able to speak , and can speak perfectly . ''
Old Robert lay down the piece of cheese he be convey to his mouth on the point of a knife and star at Eric in blank amazement .
`` God bless my soul , Master , what an extraordinary thing ! ''
he ejaculate .
`` Are you in earnest ?
Or be you try to see how much of a fool you can make of the old man ? ''
`` No , Mr. Williamson , I assure you it be no more than the simple truth .
Dr. Baker tell me that a shock might cure her , -- and it have .
As for Neil , he have go , no doubt for good , and I think it well that he have . ''
Not care to discuss the matter far , Eric leave the kitchen .
But a he mount the stair to his room he hear old Robert muttering , like a man in hopeless bewilderment , `` Well , I never hear anything like this in all my born day -- never -- never .
Timothy , do YOU ever hear the like ?
Them Gordons be an unaccountable lot and no mistake .
They could n't act like other people if they try .
I must wake mother up and tell her about this , or I 'll never be able to sleep . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
VICTOR FROM VANQUISHED ISSUES Now that everything be settle Eric wish to give up teaching and go back to his own place .
True , he have `` sign paper '' to teach the school for a year ; but he know that the trustee would let him off if he procure a suitable substitute .
He resolve to teach until the fall vacation , which come in October , and then go .
Kilmeny have promise that their marriage should take place in the following spring .
Eric have plead for an early date , but Kilmeny be sweetly resolute , and Thomas and Janet agree with her .
`` There be so many thing that I must learn yet before I shall be ready to be marry , '' Kilmeny have say .
`` And I want to get accustom to see people .
I feel a little frightened yet whenever I see any one I do n't know , although I do n't think I show it .
I be go to church with Uncle and Aunt after this , and to the Missionary Society meeting .
And Uncle Thomas say that he will send me to a boarding school in town this winter if you think it advisable . ''
Eric veto this promptly .
The idea of Kilmeny in a boarding school be something that could not be think about without laughter .
`` I ca n't see why she ca n't learn all she need to learn after she be marry to me , just as well a before , '' he grumble to her uncle and aunt .
`` But we want to keep her with u for another winter yet , '' explain Thomas Gordon patiently .
`` We be go to miss her terrible when she do go , Master .
She have never be away from u for a day -- she be all the brightness there be in our life .
It be very kind of you to say that she can come home whenever she like , but there will be a great difference .
She will belong to your world and not to ours .
That be for the best -- and we would n't have it otherwise .
But let u keep her a our own for this one winter yet . ''
Eric yield with the best grace he could muster .
After all , he reflect , Lindsay be not so far from Queenslea , and there be such thing a boat and train .
`` Have you tell your father about all this yet ? ''
ask Janet anxiously .
No , he have not .
But he go home and write a full account of his summer to old Mr. Marshall that night .
Mr. Marshall , Senior , answer the letter in person .
A few day later , Eric , come home from school , find his father sit in Mrs. Williamson 's prim , fleckless parlour .
Nothing be say about Eric 's letter , however , until after tea .
When they find themselves alone , Mr. Marshall say abruptly , `` Eric , what about this girl ?
I hope you have n't go and make a fool of yourself .
It sound remarkably like it .
A girl that have be dumb all her life -- a girl with no right to her father 's name -- a country girl bring up in a place like Lindsay !
Your wife will have to fill your mother 's place , -- and your mother be a pearl among woman .
Do you think this girl be worthy of it ?
It be n't possible !
You 've be lead away by a pretty face and dairy maid freshness .
I expect some trouble out of this freak of yours come over here to teach school . ''
`` Wait until you see Kilmeny , father , '' say Eric , smile .
`` Humph !
That 's just exactly what David Baker say .
I go straight to him when I get your letter , for I know that there be some connection between it and that mysterious visit of his over here , concern which I never could drag a word out of him by hook or crook .
And all HE say be , ` Wait until you see Kilmeny Gordon , sir . '
Well , I WILL wait till I see her , but I shall look at her with the eye of sixty-five , mind you , not the eye of twenty-four .
And if she be n't what your wife ought to be , sir , you give her up or paddle your own canoe .
I shall not aid or abet you in make a fool of yourself and spoil your life . ''
Eric bite his lip , but only say quietly , `` Come with me , father .
We will go to see her now . ''
They go around by way of the main road and the Gordon lane .
Kilmeny be not in when they reach the house .
`` She be up in the old orchard , Master , '' say Janet .
`` She love that place so much she spend all her spare time there .
She like to go there to study . ''
They sit down and talk awhile with Thomas and Janet .
When they leave , Mr. Marshall say , `` I like those people .
If Thomas Gordon have be a man like Robert Williamson I should n't have wait to see your Kilmeny .
But they be all right -- rugged and grim , but of good stock and pith -- native refinement and strong character .
But I must say candidly that I hope your young lady have n't get her aunt 's mouth . ''
`` Kilmeny 's mouth be like a love-song made incarnate in sweet flesh , '' say Eric enthusiastically .
`` Humph ! ''
say Mr. Marshall .
`` Well , '' he add more tolerantly , a moment later , `` I be a poet , too , for six month in my life when I be court your mother . ''
Kilmeny be read on the bench under the lilac tree when they reach the orchard .
She stand up and come shyly forward to meet them , guess who the tall , white-haired old gentleman with Eric must be .
As she approach Eric saw with a thrill of exultation that she have never look lovelier .
She wear a dress of her favourite blue , simply and quaintly make , a all her gown be , reveal the perfect line of her lithe , slender figure .
Her glossy black hair be wound about her head in a braided coronet , against which a spray of wild aster shine like pale purple star .
Her face be flush delicately with excitement .
She look like a young princess , crown with a ruddy splash of sunlight that fell through the old tree .
`` Father , this be Kilmeny , '' say Eric proudly .
Kilmeny hold out her hand with a shyly murmur greeting .
Mr. Marshall take it and hold it in his , look so steadily and piercingly into her face that even her frank gaze waver before the intensity of his keen old eye .
Then he draw her to him and kiss her gravely and gently on her white forehead .
`` My dear , '' he say , `` I be glad and proud that you have consent to be my son 's wife -- and my very dear and honoured daughter . ''
Eric turn abruptly away to hide his emotion and on his face be a light a of one who see a great glory widening and deepen down the vista of his future .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1896_to_1901.txt.out
A Case of Trespass It be the forenoon of a hazy , breathless day , and Dan Phillips be trouting up one of the back creek of the Carleton pond .
It be somewhat cool up the creek than out on the main body of water , for the tall birch and willow , crowd down to the brim , throw cool , green shadow across it and shut out the scorch glare , while a stray breeze now and then ripple down the wooded slope , rustle the beech leave with an airy , pleasant sound .
Out in the pond the glassy water cream and shimmer in the hot sun , unrippled by the faint breath of air .
Across the soft , pearly tint of the horizon blur the smoke of the big factory chimney that be own by Mr. Walters , to whom the pond and adjacent property also belong .
Mr. Walters be a comparative stranger in Carleton , have but recently purchase the factory from the heir of the previous owner ; but he have be in charge long enough to establish a reputation for sternness and inflexibility in all his business dealing .
One or two of his employee , who have be discharge by him on what they deem insufficient ground , help to deepen the impression that he be an unjust and arbitrary man , merciless to all offender , and intolerant of the slight infringement of his cast-iron rule .
Dan Phillips have be on the pond ever since sunrise .
The trout have rise well in the early morning , but a the day wear on , grow hotter and hotter , they refuse to bite , and for half an hour Dan have not catch one .
He have a goodly string of them already , however , and he survey them with satisfaction a he row his leaky little skiff to the shore of the creek .
`` Pretty good catch , '' he soliloquize .
`` Best I 've have this summer , so far .
That big spot one must weigh near a pound .
He 's a beauty .
They 're a good price over at the hotel now , too .
I 'll go home and get my dinner and go straight over with them .
That 'll leave me time for another try at them about sunset .
Whew , how hot it be !
I must take Ella May home a bunch of them blue flag .
They 're real handsome ! ''
He tie his skiff under the crowding alder , gather a big bunch of the purple flag lily with their silky petal , and start homeward , whistle cheerily a he step briskly along the fern-carpeted wood path that wind up the hill under the beech and fir .
He be a freckled , sunburn lad of thirteen year .
His neighbour all say that Danny be `` as smart a a steel trap , '' and immediately add that they wonder where he get his smartness from -- certainly not from his father !
The elder Phillips have be denominate `` shiftless and slack-twisted '' by all who ever have any dealing with him in his unlucky , aimless life -- one of those improvident , easygoing soul who sit contentedly down to breakfast with a very faint idea where their dinner be to come from .
When he have die , no one have miss him , unless it be his patient , sad-eyed wife , who bravely face her hard lot , and toil unremittingly to keep a home for her two child -- Dan and a girl two year young , who be a helpless cripple , suffer from some form of spinal disease .
Dan , who be old and steady for his year , have go manfully to work to assist his mother .
Though he have be disappoint in all his effort to obtain steady employment , he be active and obliging , and earn many a small amount by odd job around the village , and by help the Carleton farmer in planting and harvest .
For the last two year , however , his most profitable source of summer income have be the trout pond .
The former owner have allow anyone who wish to fish in his pond , and Dan make a regular business of it , sell his trout at the big hotel over at Mosquito Lake .
This , in spite of it unattractive name , be a popular summer resort , and Dan always find a ready market for his catch .
When Mr. Walters purchase the property it somehow never occur to Dan that the new owner might not be so complaisant a his predecessor in the matter of the best trouting pond in the country .
To be sure , Dan often wonder why it be the pond be so deserted this summer .
He could not recall have see a single person on it save himself .
Still , it do not cross his mind that there could be any particular reason for this .
He always fish up in the cool , dim creek , which long experience have teach him be best for trout , and come and go by a convenient wood path ; but he have no thought of concealment in so do .
He would not have care have all Carleton see him .
He have do very well with his fish so far , and price for trout at the Lake go up every day .
Dan be an enterprising boy , and a general favourite with the hotel owner .
They know that he could always be depend on .
Mrs. Phillips meet him at the door when he reach home .
`` See , Mother , '' say Dan exultantly , a he hold up his fish .
`` Just look at that fellow , will you ?
A pound if he 's an ounce !
I ought to get a good price for these , I can tell you .
Let me have my dinner now , and I 'll go right over to the Lake with them . ''
`` It 's a long walk for you , Danny , '' reply his mother pityingly , `` and it 's too hot to go so far .
I 'm afraid you 'll get sun-struck or something .
You 'd better wait till the cool of the evening .
You 're look real pale and thin this while back . ''
`` Oh , I 'm all right , Mother , '' assure Dan cheerfully .
`` I do n't mind the heat a bit .
A fellow must put up with some inconvenience .
Wait till I bring home the money for these fish .
And I mean to have another catch tonight .
It 's you that 's look tire .
I wish you do n't have to work so hard , Mother .
If I could only get a good place you could take it easy .
Sam French say that Mr. Walters want a boy up there at the factory , but I know I would n't do .
I ai n't big enough .
Perhaps something will turn up soon though .
When our ship come in , Mother , we 'll have our good time . ''
He pick up his flag and go into the little room where his sister lay .
`` See what I 've bring you , Ella May ! ''
he say , a he thrust the cool , moist cluster into her thin , eager hand .
`` Did you ever see such beauty ? ''
`` Oh , Dan , how lovely they be !
Thank you ever so much !
If you be go over to the Lake this afternoon , will you please call at Mrs. Henny 's and get those nutmeg geranium slip she promise me ?
Just look how nice my others be grow .
The pink one be go to bloom . ''
`` I 'll bring you all the geranium slip at the Lake , if you like .
When I get rich , Ella May , I 'll build you a big conservatory , and I 'll get every flower in the world in it for you .
You shall just live and sleep among posy .
Is dinner ready , Mother ?
Trouting 's hungry work , I tell you .
What paper be this ? ''
He pick up a folded newspaper from the table .
`` Oh , that 's only an old Lake Advertiser , '' answer Mrs. Phillips , a she place the potato on the table and wipe her moist , hot face with the corner of her gingham apron .
`` Letty Mills bring it in around a parcel this morning .
It 's four week old , but I keep it to read if I ever get time .
It 's so seldom we see a paper of any kind nowadays .
But I have n't look at it yet .
Why , Danny , what on earth be the matter ? ''
For Dan , who have open the paper and glance over the first page , suddenly give a choked exclamation and turn pale , star stupidly at the sheet before him .
`` See , Mother , '' he gasp , a she come up in alarm and look over his shoulder .
This be what they read : Notice Anyone find fish on my pond at Carleton after date will be prosecute accord to law , without respect of person .
June First .
H.C. Walters .
`` Oh , Danny , what do it mean ? ''
Dan go and carefully close the door of Ella May 's room before he reply .
His face be pale and his voice shaky .
`` Mean ?
Well , Mother , it just mean that I 've be steal Mr. Walters 's trout all summer -- steal them .
That 's what it mean . ''
`` Oh , Danny !
But you do n't know . ''
`` No , but I ought to have remember that he be the new owner , and have ask him .
I never think .
Mother , what do ` prosecute accord to law ' mean ? ''
`` I do n't know , I 'm sure , Danny .
But if this be so , there 's only one thing to be do .
You must go straight to Mr. Walters and tell him all about it . ''
`` Mother , I do n't dare to .
He be a dreadfully hard man .
Sam French 's father say -- '' `` I would n't believe a word Sam French 's father say about Mr. Walters ! ''
say Mrs. Phillips firmly .
`` He 's get a spite against him because he be dismiss .
Besides , Danny , it 's the only right thing to do .
You know that .
We 're poor , but we have never do anything underhand yet . ''
`` Yes , Mother , I know , '' say Dan , gulp his fear bravely down .
`` I 'll go , of course , right after dinner .
I be only scar at first .
I 'll tell you what I 'll do .
I 'll clean these trout nicely and take them to Mr. Walters , and tell him that , if he 'll only give me time , I 'll pay him back every cent of money I get for all I sell this summer .
Then maybe he 'll let me off , see a I do n't know about the notice . ''
`` I 'll go with you , Danny . ''
`` No , I 'll go alone , Mother .
You need n't go with me , '' say Dan heroically .
To himself he say that his mother have trouble enough .
He would never subject her to the added ordeal of an interview with the stern factory owner .
He would beard the lion in his den himself , if it have to be do .
`` Do n't tell Ella May anything about it .
It would worry her .
And do n't cry , Mother , I guess it 'll be all right .
Let me have my dinner now and I 'll go straight off . ''
Dan eat his dinner rapidly ; then he carefully clean his trout , put them in a long basket , with rhubarb leaf over them , and start with an assumed cheerfulness very far from his real feeling .
He have barely pass the gate when another boy come shuffle along -- a tall , raw-boned lad , with an insinuate smile and shifty , cunning eye .
The newcomer nod familiarly to Dan .
`` Hello , sonny .
Going over to the Lake with your catch , be you ?
You 'll fry up before you get there .
There 'll be nothing left of you but a crisp . ''
`` No , I 'm not go to the Lake .
I 'm go up to the factory to see Mr. Walters . ''
Sam French give a long whistle of surprise .
`` Why , Dan , what 's take you there ?
You surely ai n't think of try for that place , be you ?
Walters would n't look at you .
Why , he would n't take me !
You have n't the ghost of a chance . ''
`` No , I 'm not go for that .
Sam , do you know that Mr. Walters have a notice in the Lake Advertiser that nobody could fish in his pond this summer ? ''
`` Course I do -- the old skinflint !
He 's too mean to live , that 's what .
He never go near the pond himself .
Regular dog in the manger , he be .
Dad say -- '' `` Sam , why do n't you tell me about that notice ? ''
`` Gracious , do n't you know ?
I s ` posed everybody do , and here I 've be take you for the cut chap this side of sunset -- fish away up in that creek where no one could see you , and cut home through the wood on the sly .
You do n't mean to tell me you never saw that notice ? ''
`` No , I do n't .
Do you think I 'd have go near the pond if I have ?
I never saw it till today , and I 'm go straight to Mr. Walters now to tell him about it . ''
Sam French stop short in the dusty road and star at Dan in undisguised amazement .
`` Dan Phillips , '' he ejaculate , `` have you plum go out of your mind ?
Boy alive , you need n't be afraid that I 'd peach on you .
I 'm too blame glad to see anyone get the good of that old Walters , smart a he think himself .
Gee !
To dream of go to him and tell him you 've be fish in his pond !
Why , he 'll put you in jail .
You do n't know what sort of a man he be .
Dad say -- '' `` Never mind what your dad say , Sam .
My mind 's make up . ''
`` Dan , you chump , listen to me .
That notice say ` prosecute accord to law . '
Why , Danny , he 'll put you in prison , or fine you , or something dreadful . ''
`` I ca n't help it if he do , '' say Danny stoutly .
`` You get out of here , Sam French , and do n't be try to scare me .
I mean to be honest , and how can I be if I do n't own up to Mr. Walters that I 've be steal his trout all summer ? ''
`` Stealing , fiddlestick !
Dan , I use to think you be a chap with some sense , but I see I be mistake .
You ai n't do no harm .
Walters will never miss them trout .
If you 're so dreadful squeamish that you wo n't fish no more , why , you need n't .
But just let the matter drop and hold your tongue about it .
That 's my advice . ''
`` Well , it be n't my mother 's , then .
I mean to go by hers .
You need n't argue no more , Sam .
I 'm go . ''
`` Go , then ! ''
say Sam , stop short in disgust .
`` You 're a big fool , Dan , and serve you right if Walters land you off to jail ; but I do n't wish you no ill .
If I can do anything for your family after you 're go , I will , and I 'll try and give your remains Christian burial -- if there be any remains .
So long , Danny !
Give my love to old Walters ! ''
Dan be not greatly encourage by this interview .
He shrink more than ever from the thought of face the stern factory owner .
His courage have almost evaporate when he enter the office at the factory and ask shakily for Mr. Walters .
`` He 's in his office there , '' reply the clerk , `` but he 's very busy .
Better leave your message with me . ''
`` I must see Mr. Walters himself , please , '' say Dan firmly , but with inward trepidation .
The clerk swung himself impatiently from his stool and ushered Dan into Mr. Walters 's private office .
`` Boy to see you , sir , '' he say briefly , a he close the ground-glass door behind him .
Dan , dizzy and trembling , stand in the dreaded presence .
Mr. Walters be write at a table cover with a businesslike litter of paper .
He lay down his pen and look up with a frown a the clerk vanish .
He be a stern-looking man with deep-set grey eye and a square , clean-shaven chin .
There be not an ounce of superfluous flesh on his frame , and his voice and manner be those of the decided , resolute , masterful man of business .
He point to a capacious leather chair and say concisely , `` What be your business with me , boy ? ''
Dan have carefully think out a statement of fact beforehand , but every word have vanish from his memory .
He have only a confused , desperate consciousness that he have a theft to confess and that it must be do as soon a possible .
He do not sit down .
`` Please , Mr. Walters , '' he begin desperately , `` I come to tell you -- your notice -- I never saw it before -- and I 've be fish on your pond all summer -- but I do n't know -- honest -- I 've bring you all I catch today -- and I 'll pay back for them all -- some time . ''
An amused , puzzled expression cross Mr. Walters 's noncommittal face .
He push the leather chair forward .
`` Sit down , my boy , '' he say kindly .
`` I do n't quite understand this somewhat mixed-up statement of yours .
You 've be fish on my pond , you say .
Did n't you see my notice in the Advertiser ? ''
Dan sit down more composedly .
The revelation be over and he be still alive .
`` No , sir .
We hardly ever see an Advertiser , and nobody tell me .
I 'd always be use to fish there , and I never think but what it be all right to keep on .
I know I ought to have remember and ask you , but truly , sir , I do n't mean to steal your fish .
I use to sell them over at the hotel .
We saw the notice today , Mother and me , and I come right up .
I 've bring you the trout I catch this morning , and -- if only you wo n't prosecute me , sir , I 'll pay back every cent I get for the others -- every cent , sir -- if you 'll give me time . ''
Mr. Walters pass his hand across his mouth to conceal something like a smile .
`` Your name be Dan Phillips , be n't it ? ''
he say irrelevantly , `` and you live with your mother , the Widow Phillips , down there at Carleton Corners , I understand . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' say Dan , wonder how Mr. Walters know so much about him , and if these be the preliminary of prosecution .
Mr. Walters take up his pen and draw a blank sheet towards him .
`` Well , Dan , I put that notice in because I find that many people who use to fish on my pond , irrespective of leave or licence , be accustom to lunch or camp on my property , and do not a little damage .
I do n't care for trouting myself ; I 've no time for it .
However , I hardly think you 'll do much damage .
You can keep on fishing there .
I 'll give you a write permission , so that if any of my men see you they wo n't interfere with you .
As for these trout here , I 'll buy them from you at Mosquito Lake price , and will say no more about the matter .
How will that do ? ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' stammer Dan .
He could hardly believe his ear .
He take the slip of paper Mr. Walters hand to him and rise to his foot .
`` Wait a minute , Dan .
How be it you come to tell me this ?
You might have stop your depredation , and I should not have be any the wiser . ''
`` That would n't have be honest , sir , '' say Dan , look squarely at him .
There be a brief silence .
Mr. Walters thrum meditatively on the table .
Dan wait wonderingly .
Finally the factory owner say abruptly , `` There 's a vacant place for a boy down here .
I want it fill as soon a possible .
Will you take it ? ''
`` Mr. Walters !
Me !
'' Dan think the world must be turn upside down .
`` Yes , you .
You be rather young , but the duty be not hard or difficult to learn .
I think you 'll do .
I be resolve not to fill that place until I could find a perfectly honest and trustworthy boy for it .
I believe I have find him .
I discharge the last boy because he lie to me about some trifling offence for which I would have forgive him if he have tell the truth .
I can bear with incompetency , but falsehood and deceit I can not and will not tolerate , '' he say , so sternly that Dan 's face pal .
`` I be convince that you be incapable of either .
Will you take the place , Dan ? ''
`` I will if you think I can fill it , sir .
I will do my best . ''
`` Yes , I believe you will .
Perhaps I know more about you than you think .
Businessmen must keep their eye open .
We 'll regard this matter a settle then .
Come up tomorrow at eight o'clock .
And one word more , Dan .
You have perhaps hear that I be an unjust and hard master .
I be not the former , and you will never have occasion to find me the latter if you be always a truthful and straightforward a you have be today .
You might easily have deceive me in this matter .
That you do not do so be the best and only recommendation I require .
Take those trout up to my house and leave them .
That will do .
Good afternoon . ''
Dan somehow get his dazed self through the glass door and out of the building .
The whole interview have be such a surprise to him that he be hardly sure whether or not he have dream it all .
`` I feel a if I be some person else , '' he say to himself , a he start down the hot white road .
`` But Mother be right .
I 'll stick to her motto .
I wonder what Sam will say to this . ''
A Christmas Inspiration `` Well , I really think Santa Claus have be very good to u all , '' say Jean Lawrence , pull the pin out of her heavy coil of fair hair and let it ripple over her shoulder .
`` So do I , '' say Nellie Preston as well a she could with a mouthful of chocolate .
`` Those bless home folk of mine seem to have divine by instinct the very thing I most want . ''
It be the dusk of Christmas Eve and they be all in Jean Lawrence 's room at No . 16 Chestnut Terrace .
No . 16 be a boarding-house , and boarding-houses be not proverbially cheerful place in which to spend Christmas , but Jean 's room , at least , be a pleasant spot , and all the girl have bring their Christmas present in to show each other .
Christmas come on Sunday that year and the Saturday evening mail at Chestnut Terrace have be an excite one .
Jean have light the pink-globed lamp on her table and the mellow light fell over merry face a the girl chat about their gift .
On the table be a big white box heap with rose that betoken a bit of Christmas extravagance on somebody 's part .
Jean 's brother have send them to her from Montreal , and all the girl be enjoy them in common .
No . 16 Chestnut Terrace be overrun with girl generally .
But just now only five be leave ; all the others have go home for Christmas , but these five could not go and be bend on make the best of it .
Belle and Olive Reynolds , who be sit on the bed -- Jean could never keep them off it -- be High School girl ; they be say to be always laugh , and even the fact that they could not go home for Christmas because a young brother have measles do not dampen their spirit .
Beth Hamilton , who be hover over the rose , and Nellie Preston , who be eat candy , be art student , and their home be too far away to visit .
As for Jean Lawrence , she be an orphan , and have no home of her own .
She work on the staff of one of the big city newspaper and the other girl be a little in awe of her cleverness , but her nature be a `` chummy '' one and her room be a favourite rendezvous .
Everybody like frank , open-handed and hearted Jean .
`` It be so funny to see the postman when he come this evening , '' say Olive .
`` He just bulge with parcel .
They be stick out in every direction . ''
`` We all get our share of them , '' say Jean with a sigh of content .
`` Even the cook get six -- I count . ''
`` Miss Allen do n't get a thing -- not even a letter , '' say Beth quickly .
Beth have a trick of see thing that other girl do n't .
`` I forget Miss Allen .
No , I do n't believe she do , '' answer Jean thoughtfully a she twist up her pretty hair .
`` How dismal it must be to be so forlorn a that on Christmas Eve of all time .
Ugh !
I 'm glad I have friend . ''
`` I saw Miss Allen watch u a we open our parcel and letter , '' Beth go on .
`` I happen to look up once , and such an expression a be on her face , girl !
It be pathetic and sad and envious all at once .
It really make me feel bad -- for five minute , '' she conclude honestly .
`` Has n't Miss Allen any friend at all ? ''
ask Beth .
`` No , I do n't think she have , '' answer Jean .
`` She have live here for fourteen year , so Mrs. Pickrell say .
