`` Even the rough , most neglected little bed have a bit of heart 's - ease or a sprig of mignonette in it .
One have rose , sweet pea , and daisy in it , '' here he pinch the plump cheek of the little girl lean on his arm .
`` Another have all sort of curious plant in it , bright pebble , a vine that go climb up like Jack 's beanstalk , and many good seed just begin to sprout ; for , you see , this bed have be take fine care of by a wise old man , who have work in garden of this sort all his life . ''
At this part of the `` arrygory , '' Demi put his head on one side like an inquisitive bird , and fix his bright eye on his uncle 's face , a if he suspect something and be on the watch .
But Mr. Bhaer look perfectly innocent , and go on glance from one young face to another , with a grave , wistful look , that say much to his wife , who know how earnestly he desire to do his duty in these little garden plot .
`` As I tell you , some of these bed be easy to cultivate , that mean to take care of Daisy , and others be very hard .
There be one particularly sunshiny little bed that might have be full of fruit and vegetable as well a flower , only it would n't take any pain , and when the man sow , well , we 'll say melon in this bed , they come to nothing , because the little bed neglect them .
The man be sorry , and keep on try , though every time the crop fail , all the bed say , be , ' I forget . ' ''
Here a general laugh break out , and every one look at Tommy , who have prick up his ear at the word `` melon , '' and hang down his head at the sound of his favorite excuse .
`` I know he mean u ! ''
cry Demi , clap his hand .
`` You be the man , and we be the little garden ; be n't we , Uncle Fritz ? ''
`` You have guess it .
Now each of you tell me what crop I shall try to sow in you this spring , so that next autumn I may get a good harvest out of my twelve , no , thirteen , plot , '' say Mr. Bhaer , nod at Nat a he correct himself .
`` You ca n't sow corn and bean and pea in u .
Unless you mean we be to eat a great many and get fat , '' say Stuffy , with a sudden brightening of his round , dull face a the pleasing idea occur to him .
`` He do n't mean that kind of seed .
He mean thing to make u good ; and the weed be fault , '' cry Demi , who usually take the lead in these talk , because he be use to this sort of thing , and like it very much .
`` Yes , each of you think what you need most , and tell me , and I will help you to grow it ; only you must do your best , or you will turn out like Tommy 's melon , all leaf and no fruit .
I will begin with the old , and ask the mother what she will have in her plot , for we be all part of the beautiful garden , and may have rich harvest for our Master if we love Him enough , '' say Father Bhaer .
`` I shall devote the whole of my plot to the large crop of patience I can get , for that be what I need most , '' say Mrs. Jo , so soberly that the lad fell to think in good earnest what they should say when their turn come , and some among them felt a twinge of remorse , that they have help to use up Mother Bhaer 's stock of patience so fast .
Franz want perseverance , Tommy steadiness , Ned go in for good temper , Daisy for industry , Demi for `` as much wiseness a Grandpa , '' and Nat timidly say he want so many thing he would let Mr. Bhaer choose for him .
The others choose much the same thing , and patience , good temper , and generosity seem the favorite crop .
One boy wish to like to get up early , but do not know what name to give that sort of seed ; and poor Stuffy sigh out , `` I wish I love my lesson as much a I do my dinner , but I ca n't . ''
`` We will plant self-denial , and hoe it and water it , and make it grow so well that next Christmas no one will get ill by eat too much dinner .
If you exercise your mind , George , it will get hungry just a your body do , and you will love book almost as much a my philosopher here , '' say Mr. Bhaer ; add , a he stroke the hair off Demi 's fine forehead , `` You be greedy also , my son , and you like to stuff your little mind full of fairy tale and fancy , as well a George like to fill his little stomach with cake and candy .
Both be bad , and I want you to try something well .
Arithmetic be not half so pleasant a ` Arabian Nights , ' I know , but it be a very useful thing , and now be the time to learn it , else you will be ashamed and sorry by and by . ''
`` But , ` Harry and Lucy , ' and ` Frank , ' be not fairy book , and they be all full of barometer , and brick , and shoe horse , and useful thing , and I 'm fond of them ; ai n't I , Daisy ? ''
say Demi , anxious to defend himself .
`` So they be ; but I find you read ` Roland and Maybird , ' a great deal oftener than ` Harry and Lucy , ' and I think you be not half so fond of ` Frank ' a you be of ` Sinbad . '
Come , I shall make a little bargain with you both , George shall eat but three time a day , and you shall read but one story-book a week , and I will give you the new cricket-ground ; only , you must promise to play in it , '' say Uncle Fritz , in his persuasive way , for Stuffy hat to run about , and Demi be always read in play hour .
`` But we do n't like cricket , '' say Demi .
`` Perhaps not now , but you will when you know it .
Besides , you do like to be generous , and the other boy want to play , and you can give them the new ground if you choose . ''
This be take them both on the right side , and they agree to the bargain , to the great satisfaction of the rest .
There be a little more talk about the garden , and then they all sing together .
The band delight Nat , for Mrs. Bhaer play the piano , Franz the flute , Mr. Bhaer a bass viol , and he himself the violin .
A very simple little concert , but all seem to enjoy it , and old Asia , sit in the corner , join at time with the sweet voice of any , for in this family , master and servant , old and young , black and white , share in the Sunday song , which go up to the Father of them all .
After this they each shake hand with Father Bhaer ; Mother Bhaer kiss them every one from sixteen-year-old Franz to little Rob , how keep the tip of her nose for his own particular kiss , and then they troop up to bed .
The light of the shaded lamp that burn in the nursery shone softly on a picture hang at the foot of Nat 's bed .
There be several others on the wall , but the boy think there must be something peculiar about this one , for it have a graceful frame of moss and cone about it , and on a little bracket underneath stand a vase of wild flower freshly gather from the spring wood .
It be the most beautiful picture of them all , and Nat lay look at it , dimly feel what it mean , and wish he know all about it .
`` That 's my picture , '' say a little voice in the room .
Nat pop up his head , and there be Demi in his night-gown pausing on his way back from Aunt Jo 's chamber , whither he have go to get a cot for a cut finger .
`` What be he do to the child ? ''
ask Nat .
`` That be Christ , the Good Man , and He be bless the child .
Do n't you know about Him ? ''
say Demi , wonder .
`` Not much , but I 'd like to , He look so kind , '' answer Nat , whose chief knowledge of the Good Man consist in hear His name take in vain .
`` I know all about it , and I like it very much , because it be true , '' say Demi .
`` Who tell you ? ''
`` My Grandpa , he know every thing , and tell the best story in the world .
I use to play with his big book , and make bridge , and railroad , and house , when I be a little boy , '' begin Demi .
`` How old be you now ? ''
ask Nat , respectfully . ''
` Most ten . ''
`` You know a lot of thing , do n't you ? ''
`` Yes ; you see my head be pretty big , and Grandpa say it will take a good deal to fill it , so I keep put piece of wisdom into it as fast a I can , '' return Demi , in his quaint way .
Nat laugh , and then say soberly , `` Tell on , please . ''
And Demi gladly tell on without pause or punctuation .
`` I find a very pretty book one day and want to play with it , but Grandpa say I must n't , and show me the picture , and tell me about them , and I like the story very much , all about Joseph and his bad brother , and the frog that come up out of the sea , and dear little Moses in the water , and ever so many more lovely one , but I like about the Good Man best of all , and Grandpa tell it to me so many time that I learn it by heart , and he give me this picture so I should n't forget , and it be put up here once when I be sick , and I leave it for other sick boy to see . '' '
`` What make Him bless the child ? ''
ask Nat , who find something very attractive in the chief figure of the group .
`` Because He love them . ''
`` Were they poor child ? ''
ask Nat , wistfully .
`` Yes , I think so ; you see some have n't get hardly any clothes on , and the mother do n't look like rich lady .
He like poor people , and be very good to them .
He make them well , and help them , and tell rich people they must not be cross to them , and they love Him dearly , dearly , '' cry Demi , with enthusiasm .
`` Was He rich ? ''
`` Oh no !
He be bear in a barn , and be so poor He have n't any house to live in when He grow up , and nothing to eat sometimes , but what people give Him , and He go round preach to everybody , and try to make them good , till the bad men kill Him . ''
`` What for ? ''
and Nat sit up in his bed to look and listen , so interested be he in this man who care for the poor so much .
`` I 'll tell you all about it ; Aunt Jo wo n't mind ; '' and Demi settle himself on the opposite bed , glad to tell his favorite story to so good a listener .
Nursey peep in to see if Nat be asleep , but when she saw what be go on , she slip away again , and go to Mrs. Bhaer , say with her kind face full of motherly emotion , `` Will the dear lady come and see a pretty sight ?
It 's Nat listen with all his heart to Demi tell the story of the Christ-child , like a little white angel a he be . ''
Mrs. Bhaer have mean to go and talk with Nat a moment before he sleep , for she have find that a serious word speak at this time often do much good .
But when she steal to the nursery door , and saw Nat eagerly drinking in the word of his little friend , while Demi tell the sweet and solemn story a it have be teach him , speak softly a he sit with his beautiful eye fix on the tender face above them , her own fill with tear , and she go silently away , think to herself , `` Demi be unconsciously help the poor boy well than I can ; I will not spoil it by a single word . ''
The murmur of the childish voice go on for a long time , a one innocent heart preach that great sermon to another , and no one hush it .
When it cease at last , and Mrs. Bhaer go to take away the lamp , Demi be go and Nat fast asleep , lie with his face toward the picture , a if he have already learn to love the Good Man who love little child , and be a faithful friend to the poor .
The boy 's face be very placid , and a she look at it she felt that if a single day of care and kindness have do so much , a year of patient cultivation would surely bring a grateful harvest from this neglect garden , which be already sow with the best of all seed by the little missionary in the night-gown .
CHAPTER IV .
STEPPING-STONES When Nat go into school on Monday morning , he quake inwardly , for now he think he should have to display his ignorance before them all .
But Mr. Bhaer give him a seat in the deep window , where he could turn his back on the others , and Franz hear him say his lesson there , so no one could hear his blunder or see how he blot his copybook .
He be truly grateful for this , and toil away so diligently that Mr. Bhaer say , smile , when he saw his hot face and inky finger : `` Do n't work so hard , my boy ; you will tire yourself out , and there be time enough . ''
`` But I must work hard , or I ca n't catch up with the others .
They know heap , and I do n't know anything , '' say Nat , who have be reduce to a state of despair by hear the boy recite their grammar , history , and geography with what he think amaze ease and accuracy .
`` You know a good many thing which they do n't , '' say Mr. Bhaer , sit down beside him , while Franz lead a class of small student through the intricacy of the multiplication table .
`` Do I ? ''
and Nat look utterly incredulous .
`` Yes ; for one thing , you can keep your temper , and Jack , who be quick at number , can not ; that be an excellent lesson , and I think you have learn it well .
Then , you can play the violin , and not one of the lad can , though they want to do it very much .
But , best of all , Nat , you really care to learn something , and that be half the battle .
It seem hard at first , and you will feel discouraged , but plod away , and thing will get easy and easy a you go on . ''
Nat 's face have brighten more and more a he listen , for , small a the list of his learning be , it cheer him immensely to feel that he have anything to fall back upon .
`` Yes , I can keep my temper father 's beating teach me that ; and I can fiddle , though I do n't know where the Bay of Biscay be , '' he think , with a sense of comfort impossible to express .
Then he say aloud , and so earnestly that Demi hear him : `` I do want to learn , and I will try .
I never go to school , but I could n't help it ; and if the fellow do n't laugh at me , I guess I 'll get on first rate you and the lady be so good to me . ''
`` They sha n't laugh at you ; if they do , I 'll I 'll tell them not to , '' cry Demi , quite forget where he be .
The class stop in the middle of 7 time 9 , and everyone look up to see what be go on .
Thinking that a lesson in learn to help one another be good than arithmetic just then , Mr. Bhaer tell them about Nat , make such an interesting and touching little story out of it that the good-hearted lad all promise to lend him a hand , and felt quite honor to be call upon to impart their store of wisdom to the chap who fiddle so capitally .
This appeal establish the right feeling among them , and Nat have few hindrance to struggle against , for every one be glad to give him a `` boost '' up the ladder of learning .
Till he be strong , much study be not good for him , however , and Mrs. Jo find various amusement in the house for him while others be at their book .
But his garden be his best medicine , and he work away like a beaver , prepare his little farm , sow his bean , watch eagerly to see them grow , and rejoice over each green leaf and slender stock that shoot up and flourish in the warm spring weather .
Never be a garden more faithfully hoed ; Mr. Bhaer really fear that nothing would find time to grow , Nat keep up such a stirring of the soil ; so he give him easy job in the flower garden or among the strawberry , where he work and hum as busily a the bee boom all about him .
`` This be the crop I like best , '' Mrs. Bhaer use to say , a she pinch the once thin cheek , now get plump and ruddy , or stroke the bent shoulder that be slowly straighten up with healthful work , good food , and the absence of that heavy burden , poverty .
Demi be his little friend , Tommy his patron , and Daisy the comforter of all his woe ; for , though the child be young than he , his timid spirit find a pleasure in their innocent society , and rather shrunk from the rough sport of the elder lad .
Mr. Laurence do not forget him , but send clothes and book , music and kind message , and now and then come out to see how his boy be get on , or take him into town to a concert ; on which occasion Nat felt himself translate into the seventh heaven of bliss , for he go to Mr. Laurence 's great house , saw his pretty wife and little fairy of a daughter , have a good dinner , and be make so comfortable , that he talk and dream of it for day and night afterward .
It take so little to make a child happy that it be a pity , in a world so full of sunshine and pleasant thing , that there should be any wistful face , empty hand , or lonely little heart .
Feeling this , the Bhaers gather up all the crumb they could find to fee their flock of hungry sparrow , for they be not rich , except in charity .
Many of Mrs. Jo 's friend who have nursery send her they toy of which their child so soon tired , and in mend these Nat find an employment that just suit him .
He be very neat and skillful with those slender finger of his , and pass many a rainy afternoon with his gum-bottle , paint-box , and knife , repair furniture , animal , and game , while Daisy be dressmaker to the dilapidated doll .
As fast a the toy be mend , they be put carefully away in a certain drawer which be to furnish forth a Christmas-tree for all the poor child of the neighborhood , that be the way the Plumfield boy celebrate the birthday of Him who love the poor and bless the little one .
Demi be never tire of reading and explain his favorite book , and many a pleasant hour do they spend in the old willow , revel over `` Robinson Crusoe , '' `` Arabian Nights , '' `` Edgeworth 's Tales , '' and the other dear immortal story that will delight child for century to come .
This open a new world to Nat , and his eagerness to see what come next in the story help him on till he could read as well a anybody , and felt so rich and proud with his new accomplishment , that there be danger of his be a much of a bookworm a Demi .
Another helpful thing happen in a most unexpected and agreeable manner .
Several of the boy be `` in business , '' a they call it , for most of them be poor , and know that they would have their own way to make by and by , the Bhaers encourage any effort at independence .
Tommy sell his egg ; Jack speculate in live stock ; Franz help in the teaching , and be pay for it ; Ned have a taste for carpentry , and a turning-lathe be set up for him in which he turn all sort of useful or pretty thing , and sell them ; while Demi construct water-mills , whirligig , and unknown machine of an intricate and useless nature , and dispose of them to the boy .
`` Let him be a mechanic if he like , '' say Mr. Bhaer .
`` Give a boy a trade , and he be independent .
Work be wholesome , and whatever talent these lad posse , be it for poetry or ploughing , it shall be cultivate and make useful to them if possible . ''
So , when Nat come run to him one day to ask with an excited face : `` Can I go and fiddle for some people who be to have a picnic in our wood ?
They will pay me , and I 'd like to earn some money a the other boy do , and fiddling be the only way I know how to do it . ''
Mr. Bhaer answer readily : `` Go , and welcome .
It be an easy and a pleasant way to work , and I be glad it be offer you . ''
Nat go , and do so well that when he come home he have two dollar in his pocket , which he display with intense satisfaction , a he tell how much he have enjoy the afternoon , how kind the young people be , and how they have praise his dance music , and promise to have him again .
`` It be so much nicer than fiddle in the street , for then I get none of the money , and now I have it all , and a good time besides .
I 'm in business now as well a Tommy and Jack , and I like it ever so much , '' say Nat , proudly pat the old pocketbook , and feel like a millionaire already .
He be in business truly , for picnic be plenty a summer open , and Nat 's skill be in great demand .
He be always at liberty to go if lesson be not neglect , and if the picnicker be respectable young people .
For Mr. Bhaer explain to him that a good plain education be necessary for everyone , and that no amount of money should hire him to go where he might be tempt to do wrong .
Nat quite agree to this , and it be a pleasant sight to see the innocent-hearted lad go drive away in the gay wagon that stop at the gate for him , or to hear him come fiddling home tire but happy , with his well-earned money in one pocket , and some `` goody '' from the feast for Daisy or little Ted , whom he never forget .
`` I 'm go to save up till I get enough to buy a violin for myself , and then I can earn my own living , ca n't I ? ''
he use to say , a he bring his dollar to Mr. Bhaer to keep .
`` I hope so , Nat ; but we must get you strong and hearty first , and put a little more knowledge into this musical head of yours .
Then Mr. Laurie will find you a place somewhere , and in a few year we will all come to hear you play in public . ''
With much congenial work , encouragement , and hope , Nat find life get easy and happy every day , and make such progress in his music lesson that his teacher forgive his slowness in some other thing , know very well that where the heart be the mind work best .
The only punishment the boy ever need for neglect of more important lesson be to hang up the fiddle and the bow for a day .
The fear of lose his bosom friend entirely make him go at his book with a will ; and have prove that he could master the lesson , what be the use of say `` I ca n't ? ''
Daisy have a great love of music , and a great reverence for any one who could make it , and she be often find sit on the stair outside Nat 's door while he be practise .
This please him very much , and he play his best for that one quiet little listener ; for she never would come in , but prefer to sit sew her gay patchwork , or tend one of her many doll , with an expression of dreamy pleasure on her face that make Aunt Jo say , with tear in her eye : `` So like my Beth , '' and go softly by , l even her familiar presence mar the child 's sweet satisfaction .
Nat be very fond of Mrs. Bhaer , but find something even more attractive in the good professor , who take fatherly care of the shy feeble boy , who have barely escape with his life from the rough sea on which his little boat have be toss rudderless for twelve year .
Some good angel must have be watch over him , for , though his body have suffer , his soul seem to have take little harm , and come ashore as innocent a a shipwrecked baby .
Perhaps his love of music keep it sweet in spite of the discord all about him ; Mr. Laurie say so , and he ought to know .
However that might be , Father Bhaer take pleasure in foster poor Nat 's virtue , and in cure his fault , find his new pupil a docile and affectionate a a girl .
He often call Nat his `` daughter '' when speaking of him to Mrs. Jo , and she use to laugh at his fancy , for Madame like manly boy , and think Nat amiable but weak , though you never would have guess it , for she pet him a she do Daisy , and he think her a very delightful woman .
One fault of Nat 's give the Bhaers much anxiety , although they saw how it have be strengthen by fear and ignorance .
I regret to say that Nat sometimes tell lie .
Not very black one , seldom get deep than gray , and often the mild of white fib ; but that do not matter , a lie be a lie , and though we all tell many polite untruth in this queer world of ours , it be not right , and everybody know it .
`` You can not be too careful ; watch your tongue , and eye , and hand , for it be easy to tell , and look , and act untruth , '' say Mr. Bhaer , in one of the talk he have with Nat about his chief temptation .
`` I know it , and I do n't mean to , but it 's so much easy to get along if you ai n't very fussy about be exactly true .
I use to tell 'em because I be afraid of father and Nicolo , and now I do sometimes because the boy laugh at me .
I know it 's bad , but I forget , '' and Nat look much depress by his sin .
`` When I be a little lad I use to tell lie !
Ach !
what fib they be , and my old grandmother cure me of it how , do you think ?
My parent have talk , and cry , and punish , but still do I forget a you .
Then say the dear old grandmother , ' I shall help you to remember , and put a check on this unruly part , ' with that she draw out my tongue and snip the end with her scissors till the blood ran .
That be terrible , you may believe , but it do me much good , because it be sore for day , and every word I say come so slowly that I have time to think .
After that I be more careful , and get on good , for I fear the big scissors .
Yet the dear grandmother be most kind to me in all thing , and when she lay die far away in Nuremberg , she pray that little Fritz might love God and tell the truth . ''
`` I never have any grandmother , but if you think it will cure me , I 'll let you snip my tongue , '' say Nat , heroically , for he dread pain , yet do wish to stop fibbing .
Mr. Bhaer smile , but shake his head .
`` I have a good way than that , I try it once before and it work well .
See now , when you tell a lie I will not punish you , but you shall punish me . ''
`` How ? ''
ask Nat , startle at the idea .
`` You shall ferule me in the good old-fashioned way ; I seldom do it myself , but it may make you remember good to give me pain than to feel it yourself . ''
`` Strike you ?
Oh , I could n't ! ''
cry Nat .
`` Then mind that trip tongue of thine .
I have no wish to be hurt , but I would gladly bear much pain to cure this fault . ''
This suggestion make such an impression on Nat , that for a long time he set a watch upon his lip , and be desperately accurate , for Mr. Bhaer judge rightly , that love of him would be more powerful with Nat that fear for himself .
But ala !
one sad day Nat be off his guard , and when peppery Emil threaten to thrash him , if it be he who have run over his garden and break down his best hill of corn , Nat declare he do n't , and then be ashamed to own up that he do do it , when Jack be chase him the night before .
He think no one would find it out , but Tommy happen to see him , and when Emil spoke of it a day or two later , Tommy give his evidence , and Mr. Bhaer hear it .
School be over , and they be all stand about in the hall , and Mr. Bhaer have just set down on the straw settee to enjoy his frolic with Teddy ; but when he hear Tommy and saw Nat turn scarlet , and look at him with a frightened face , he put the little boy down , say , `` Go to thy mother , bubchen , I will come soon , '' and take Nat by the hand lead him into the school and shut the door .
The boy look at one another in silence for a minute , then Tommy slip out and peep in at the half-closed blind , behold a sight that quite bewilder him .
Mr. Bhaer have just take down the long rule that hung over his desk , so seldom use that it be cover with dust .
`` My eye !
He 's go to come down heavy on Nat this time .
Wish I have n't tell , '' think good-natured Tommy , for to be feruled be the deep disgrace at this school .
`` You remember what I tell you last time ? ''
say Mr. Bhaer , sorrowfully , not angrily .
`` Yes ; but please do n't make me , I ca n't bear it , '' cry Nat , back up against the door with both hand behind him , and a face full of distress .
`` Why do n't he up and take it like a man ?
I would , '' think Tommy , though his heart beat fast at the sight .
`` I shall keep my word , and you must remember to tell the truth .
Obey me , Nat , take this and give me six good stroke . ''
Tommy be so stagger by this last speech that he nearly tumble down the bank , but save himself , and hung onto the window ledge , star in with eye as round a the stuffed owl 's on the chimney-piece .
Nat take the rule , for when Mr. Bhaer speak in that tone everyone obey him , and , look a scared and guilty a if about to stab his master , he give two feeble blow on the broad hand hold out to him .
Then he stop and look up half-blind with tear , but Mr. Bhaer say steadily : `` Go on , and strike harder . ''
As if see that it must be do , and eager to have the hard task soon over , Nat draw his sleeve across his eye and give two more quick hard stroke that redden the hand , yet hurt the giver more .
`` Is n't that enough ? ''
he ask in a breathless sort of tone .
`` Two more , '' be all the answer , and he give them , hardly see where they fell , then throw the rule all across the room , and hug the kind hand in both his own , lay his face down on it sob out in a passion of love , and shame , and penitence : `` I will remember !
Oh !
I will ! ''
Then Mr. Bhaer put an arm about him , and say in a tone as compassionate a it have just now be firm : `` I think you will .
Ask the dear God to help you , and try to spare u both another scene like this . ''
Tommy saw no more , for he creep back to the hall , look so excited and sober that the boy crowd round him to ask what be be do to Nat .
In a most impressive whisper Tommy tell them , and they look a if the sky be about to fall , for this reverse the order of thing almost take their breath away .
`` He make me do the same thing once , '' say Emil , a if confess a crime of the deep dye .
`` And you hit him ?
dear old Father Bhaer ?
By thunder , I 'd just like to see you do it now ! ''
say Ned , collar Emil in a fit of righteous wrath .
`` It be ever so long ago .
I 'd rather have my head cut off than do it now , '' and Emil mildly lay Ned on his back instead of cuff him , a he would have felt it his duty to do on any less solemn occasion .
`` How could you ? ''
say Demi , appal at the idea .
`` I be hop mad at the time , and think I should n't mind a bit , rather like it perhaps .
But when I 'd hit uncle one good crack , everything he have ever do for me come into my head all at once somehow , and I could n't go on .
No sir !
If he 'd lay me down and walk on me , I would n't have mind , I felt so mean , '' and Emil give himself a good thump in the chest to express his sense of remorse for the past .
`` Nat 's cry like anything , and feel no end sorry , so do n't let 's say a word about it ; will we ? ''
say tender-hearted Tommy .
`` Of course we wo n't , but it 's awful to tell lie , '' and Demi look a if he find the awfulness much increase when the punishment fell not upon the sinner , but his best Uncle Fritz .
`` Suppose we all clear out , so Nat can cut upstairs if he want to , '' propose Franz , and lead the way to the barn , their refuge in troublous time .
Nat do not come to dinner , but Mrs. Jo take some up to him , and say a tender word , which do him good , though he could not look at her .
By and by the lad play outside heard the violin , and say among themselves : `` He 's all right now . ''
He be all right , but felt shy about go down , till open his door to slip away into the wood , he find Daisy sit on the stair with neither work nor doll , only her little handkerchief in her hand , a if she have be mourn for her captive friend .
`` I 'm go to walk ; want to come ? ''
ask Nat , try to look a if nothing be the matter , yet feel very grateful for her silent sympathy , because he fancy everyone must look upon him a a wretch .
`` Oh yes ! ''
and Daisy run for her hat , proud to be choose a a companion by one of the big boy .
The others saw them go , but no one follow , for boy have a great deal more delicacy than they get credit for , and the lad instinctively felt that , when in disgrace , gentle little Daisy be their most congenial friend .
The walk do Nat good , and he come home quiet than usual , but look cheerful again , and hung all over with daisy-chains make by his little playmate while he lay on the grass and tell her story .
No one say a word about the scene of the morning , but it effect be all the more lasting for that reason , perhaps .
Nat try his very best , and find much help , not only from the earnest little prayer he pray to his Friend in heaven , but also in the patient care of the earthly friend whose kind hand he never touch without remember that it have willingly borne pain for his sake .
CHAPTER V. PATTYPANS `` What 's the matter , Daisy ? ''
`` The boy wo n't let me play with them . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` They say girl ca n't play football . ''
`` They can , for I 've do it ! ''
and Mrs. Bhaer laugh at the remembrance of certain youthful frolic .
`` I know I can play ; Demi and I use to , and have nice time , but he wo n't let me now because the other boy laugh at him , '' and Daisy look deeply grieve at her brother 's hardness of heart .
`` On the whole , I think he be right , deary .
It 's all very well when you two be alone , but it be too rough a game for you with a dozen boy ; so I 'd find some nice little play for myself . ''
`` I 'm tired of play alone ! ''
and Daisy 's tone be very mournful .
`` I 'll play with you by and by , but just now I must fly about and get thing ready for a trip into town .
You shall go with me and see mamma , and if you like you can stay with her . ''
`` I should like to go and see her and Baby Josy , but I 'd rather come back , please .
Demi would miss me , and I love to be here , Aunty . ''
`` You ca n't get on without your Demi , can you ? ''
and Aunt Jo look a if she quite understand the love of the little girl for her only brother . ''
` Course I ca n't ; we 're twin , and so we love each other more than other people , '' answer Daisy , with a brightening face , for she consider be a twin one of the high honor she could ever receive .
`` Now , what will you do with your little self while I fly around ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer , who be whisk pile of linen into a wardrobe with great rapidity .
`` I do n't know , I 'm tired of doll and thing ; I wish you 'd make up a new play for me , Aunty Jo , '' say Daisy , swing listlessly on the door .
`` I shall have to think of a brand new one , and it will take me some time ; so suppose you go down and see what Asia have get for your lunch , '' suggest Mrs. Bhaer , think that would be a good way in which to dispose of the little hindrance for a time .
`` Yes , I think I 'd like that , if she be n't cross , '' and Daisy slowly depart to the kitchen , where Asia , the black cook , reign undisturbed .
In five minute , Daisy be back again , with a wide-awake face , a bit of dough in her hand and a dab of flour on her little nose .
`` Oh aunty !
Please could I go and make gingersnap and thing ?
Asia be n't cross , and she say I may , and it would be such fun , please do , '' cry Daisy , all in one breath .
`` Just the thing , go and welcome , make what you like , and stay as long a you please , '' answer Mrs. Bhaer , much relieve , for sometimes the one little girl be hard to amuse than the dozen boy .
Daisy run off , and while she work , Aunt Jo rack her brain for a new play .
All of a sudden she seem to have an idea , for she smile to herself , slam the door of the wardrobe , and walk briskly away , say , `` I 'll do it , if it 's a possible thing ! ''
What it be no one find out that day , but Aunt Jo 's eye twinkle so when she tell Daisy she have think of a new play , and be go to buy it , that Daisy be much excite and ask question all the way into town , without get answer that tell her anything .
She be leave at home to play with the new baby , and delight her mother 's eye , while Aunt Jo go off shopping .
When she come back with all sort of queer parcel in corner of the carry-all , Daisy be so full of curiosity that she want to go back to Plumfield at once .
But her aunt would not be hurry , and make a long call in mamma 's room , sit on the floor with baby in her lap , make Mrs. Brooke laugh at the prank of the boy , and all sort of droll nonsense .
How her aunt tell the secret Daisy could not imagine , but her mother evidently know it , for she say , a she tie on the little bonnet and kiss the rosy little face inside , `` Be a good child , my Daisy , and learn the nice new play aunty have get for you .
It 's a most useful and interesting one , and it be very kind of her to play it with you , because she do not like it very well herself . ''
This last speech make the two lady laugh heartily , and increase Daisy 's bewilderment .
As they drive away something rattle in the back of the carriage .
`` What 's that ? ''
ask Daisy , prick up her ear .
`` The new play , '' answer Mrs. Jo , solemnly .
`` What be it make of ? ''
cry Daisy .
`` Iron , tin , wood , brass , sugar , salt , coal , and a hundred other thing . ''
`` How strange !
What color be it ? ''
`` All sort of color . ''
`` Is it large ? ''
`` Part of it be , and a part be n't . ''
`` Did I ever see one ? ''
`` Ever so many , but never one so nice a this . ''
`` Oh !
what can it be ?
I ca n't wait .
When shall I see it ? ''
and Daisy bounce up and down with impatience .
`` To-morrow morning , after lesson . ''
`` Is it for the boy , too ? ''
`` No , all for you and Bess .
The boy will like to see it , and want to play one part of it .
But you can do a you like about let them . ''
`` I 'll let Demi , if he want to . ''
`` No fear that they wo n't all want to , especially Stuffy , '' and Mrs. Bhaer 's eye twinkle more than ever a she pat a queer knobby bundle in her lap .
`` Let me feel just once , '' pray Daisy .
`` Not a feel ; you 'd guess in a minute and spoil the fun . ''
Daisy groan and then smile all over her face , for through a little hole in the paper she catch a glimpse of something bright .
`` How can I wait so long ?
Could n't I see it today ? ''
`` Oh dear , no !
It have get to be arrange , and ever so many part fix in their place .
I promise Uncle Teddy that you should n't see it till it be all in apple-pie order . ''
`` If uncle know about it then it must be splendid ! ''
cry Daisy , clap her hand ; for this kind , rich , jolly uncle of hers be as good a a fairy godmother to the child , and be always plan merry surprise , pretty gift , and droll amusement for them .
`` Yes ; Teddy go and buy it with me , and we have such fun in the shop choose the different part .
He would have everything fine and large , and my little plan get regularly splendid when he take hold .
You must give him your very best kiss when he come , for he be the kind uncle that ever go and buy a charming little coo Bless me !
I nearly tell you what it be ! ''
and Mrs. Bhaer cut that most interesting word short off in the middle , and begin to look over her bill , a if afraid she would let the cat out of the bag if she talk any more .
Daisy fold her hand with an air of resignation , and sit quite still try to think what play have a `` coo '' in it .
When they get home she eye every bundle that be take out , and one large heavy one , which Franz take straight upstairs and hid in the nursery , fill her with amazement and curiosity .
Something very mysterious go on up there that afternoon , for Franz be hammer , and Asia trot up and down , and Aunt Jo fly around like a will-o ' - the-wisp , with all sort of thing under her apron , while little Ted , who be the only child admit , because he could n't talk plain , babble and laugh , and try to tell what the `` sumpin pitty '' be .
All this make Daisy half-wild , and her excitement spread among the boy , who quite overwhelm Mother Bhaer with offer of assistance , which she decline by quote their own word to Daisy : `` Girls ca n't play with boy .
This be for Daisy , and Bess , and me , so we do n't want you . ''
Whereupon the young gentleman meekly retire , and invite Daisy to a game of marble , horse , football , anything she like , with a sudden warmth and politeness which astonish her innocent little soul .
Thanks to these attention , she get through the afternoon , go early to bed , and next morning do her lesson with an energy which make Uncle Fritz wish that a new game could be invent every day .
Quite a thrill pervade the school-room when Daisy be dismiss at eleven o'clock , for everyone know that now she be go to have the new and mysterious play .
Many eye follow her a she run away , and Demi 's mind be so distract by this event that when Franz ask him where the desert of Sahara be , he mournfully reply , `` In the nursery , '' and the whole school laugh at him .
`` Aunt Jo , I 've do all my lesson , and I ca n't wait one single minute more ! ''
cry Daisy , fly into Mrs. Bhaer 's room .
`` It 's all ready , come on ; '' and tuck Ted under one arm , and her workbasket under the other , Aunt Jo promptly lead the way upstairs .
`` I do n't see anything , '' say Daisy , star about her a she get inside the nursery door .
`` Do you hear anything ? ''
ask Aunt Jo , catch Ted back by his little frock a he be make straight for one side of the room .
Daisy do hear an odd crackling , and then a purry little sound a of a kettle singing .
These noise come from behind a curtain drawn before a deep bay window .
Daisy snatch it back , give one joyful , `` Oh ! ''
and then stand gaze with delight at what do you think ?
A wide seat run round the three side of the window ; on one side hung and stand all sort of little pot and pan , gridiron and skillet ; on the other side a small dinner and tea set ; and on the middle part a cooking-stove .
Not a tin one , that be of no use , but a real iron stove , big enough to cook for a large family of very hungry doll .
But the best of it be that a real fire burn in it , real steam come out of the nose of the little tea-kettle , and the lid of the little boiler actually dance a jig , the water inside bubble so hard .
A pane of glass have be take out and replace by a sheet of tin , with a hole for the small funnel , and real smoke go sail away outside so naturally , that it do one 's heart good to see it .
The box of wood with a hod of charcoal stand near by ; just above hung dust-pan , brush and broom ; a little market basket be on the low table at which Daisy use to play , and over the back of her little chair hang a white apron with a bib , and a droll mob cap .
The sun shone in as if he enjoy the fun , the little stove roar beautifully , the kettle steam , the new tin sparkle on the wall , the pretty china stand in tempt row , and it be altogether a cheery and complete a kitchen a any child could desire .
Daisy stand quite still after the first glad `` Oh ! ''
but her eye go quickly from one charm object to another , brighten a they look , till they come to Aunt Jo 's merry face ; there they stop a the happy little girl hug her , say gratefully : `` Oh aunty , it 's a splendid new play !
Can I really cook at the dear stove , and have party and mess , and sweep , and make fire that truly burn ?
I like it so much !
What make you think of it ? ''
`` Your liking to make gingersnap with Asia make me think of it , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , hold Daisy , who frisk a if she would fly .
`` I know Asia would n't let you mess in her kitchen very often , and it would n't be safe at this fire up here , so I think I 'd see if I could find a little stove for you , and teach you to cook ; that would be fun , and useful too .
So I travel round among the toy shop , but everything large cost too much and I be think I should have to give it up , when I meet Uncle Teddy .
As soon a he know what I be about , he say he want to help , and insist on buy the big toy stove we could find .
I scold , but he only laugh , and tease me about my cooking when we be young , and say I must teach Bess as well a you , and go on buy all sort of nice little thing for my ` cook class ' a he call it . ''
`` I 'm so glad you meet him ! ''
say Daisy , a Mrs. Jo stop to laugh at the memory of the funny time she have with Uncle Teddy .
`` You must study hard and learn to make all kind of thing , for he say he shall come out to tea very often , and expect something uncommonly nice . ''
`` It 's the sweetest , dear kitchen in the world , and I 'd rather study with it than do anything else .
Ca n't I learn pie , and cake , and macaroni , and everything ? ''
cry Daisy , dance round the room with a new saucepan in one hand and the tiny poker in the other .
`` All in good time .
This be to be a useful play , I be to help you , and you be to be my cook , so I shall tell you what to do , and show you how .
Then we shall have thing fit to eat , and you will be really learn how to cook on a small scale .
I 'll call you Sally , and say you be a new girl just come , '' add Mrs. Jo , settle down to work , while Teddy sit on the floor suck his thumb , and star at the stove a if it be a live thing , whose appearance deeply interested him .
`` That will be so lovely !
What shall I do first ? ''
ask Sally , with such a happy face and willing air that Aunt Jo wish all new cook be half a pretty and pleasant .
`` First of all , put on this clean cap and apron .
I be rather old-fashioned , and I like my cook to be very tidy . ''
Sally tuck her curly hair into the round cap , and put on the apron without a murmur , though usually she rebel against bib .
`` Now , you can put thing in order , and wash up the new china .
The old set need wash also , for my last girl be apt to leave it in a sad state after a party . ''
Aunt Jo speak quite soberly , but Sally laugh , for she know who the untidy girl be who have leave the cup sticky .
Then she turn up her cuff , and with a sigh of satisfaction begin to stir about her kitchen , have little rapture now and then over the `` sweet roll pin , '' the `` darling dish-tub , '' or the `` cunning pepper-pot . ''
`` Now , Sally , take your basket and go to market ; here be the list of thing I want for dinner , '' say Mrs. Jo , give her a bit of paper when the dish be all in order .
`` Where be the market ? ''
ask Daisy , think that the new play get more and more interesting every minute .
`` Asia be the market . ''
Away go Sally , cause another stir in the schoolroom a she pass the door in her new costume , and whisper to Demi , with a face full of delight , `` It 's a perfectly splendid play ! ''
Old Asia enjoy the joke as much a Daisy , and laugh jollily a the little girl come fly into the room with her cap all on one side , the lid of her basket rattle like castanets and look like a very crazy little cook .
`` Mrs. Aunt Jo want these thing , and I must have them right away , '' say Daisy , importantly .
`` Let 's see , honey ; here 's two pound of steak , potato , squash , apple , bread , and butter .
The meat ai n't come yet ; when it do I 'll send it up .
The other thing be all handy . ''
Then Asia pack one potato , one apple , a bit of squash , a little pat of butter , and a roll , into the basket , tell Sally to be on the watch for the butcher 's boy , because he sometimes play trick .
`` Who be he ? ''
and Daisy hop it would be Demi .
`` You 'll see , '' be all Asia would say ; and Sally go off in great spirit , sing a verse from dear Mary Howitt 's sweet story in rhyme : `` Away go little Mabel , With the wheaten cake so fine , The new-made pot of butter , And the little flask of wine . ''
`` Put everything but the apple into the store-closet for the present , '' say Mrs. Jo , when the cook get home .
There be a cupboard under the middle shelf , and on open the door fresh delight appear .
One half be evidently the cellar , for wood , coal , and kindling be pile there .
The other half be full of little jar , box , and all sort of droll contrivance for hold small quantity of flour , meal , sugar , salt , and other household store .
A pot of jam be there , a little tin box of gingerbread , a cologne bottle full of currant wine , and a tiny canister of tea .
But the crowning charm be two doll 's pan of new milk , with cream actually rise on it , and a wee skimmer all ready to skim it with .
Daisy clasp her hand at this delicious spectacle , and want to skim it immediately .
But Aunt Jo say : `` Not yet ; you will want the cream to eat on your apple pie at dinner , and must not disturb it till then . ''
`` Am I go to have pie ? ''
cry Daisy , hardly believe that such bliss could be in store for her .
`` Yes ; if your oven do well we will have two pie , one apple and one strawberry , '' say Mrs. Jo , who be nearly as much interested in the new play a Daisy herself .
`` Oh , what next ? ''
ask Sally , all impatience to begin .
`` Shut the low draught of the stove , so that the oven may heat .
Then wash your hand and get out the flour , sugar , salt , butter , and cinnamon .
See if the pie-board be clean , and pare your apple ready to put in . ''
Daisy get thing together with as little noise and spilling as could be expect , from so young a cook .
`` I really do n't know how to measure for such tiny pie ; I must guess at it , and if these do n't succeed , we must try again , '' say Mrs. Jo , look rather perplex , and very much amuse with the small concern before her .
`` Take that little pan full of flour , put in a pinch of salt , and then rub in as much butter a will go on that plate .
Always remember to put your dry thing together first , and then the wet .
It mix well so . ''
`` I know how ; I saw Asia do it .
Do n't I butter the pie plat too ?
She do , the first thing , '' say Daisy , whisk the flour about at a great rate .
`` Quite right !
I do believe you have a gift for cooking , you take to it so cleverly , '' say Aunt Jo , approvingly .
`` Now a dash of cold water , just enough to wet it ; then scatter some flour on the board , work in a little , and roll the paste out ; yes , that 's the way .
Now put dab of butter all over it , and roll it out again .
We wo n't have our pastry very rich , or the doll will get dyspeptic . ''
Daisy laugh at the idea , and scatter the dab with a liberal hand .
Then she roll and roll with her delightful little pin , and have get her paste ready proceed to cover the plate with it .
Next the apple be slice in , sugar and cinnamon lavishly sprinkle over it , and then the top crust put on with breathless care .
`` I always want to cut them round , and Asia never would let me .
How nice it be to do it all my ownty donty self ! ''
say Daisy , a the little knife go clip round the doll 's plate poise on her hand .
All cook , even the best , meet with mishap sometimes , and Sally 's first one occur then , for the knife go so fast that the plate slip , turn a somersault in the air , and land the dear little pie upside down on the floor .
Sally scream , Mrs. Jo laugh , Teddy scramble to get it , and for a moment confusion reign in the new kitchen .
`` It do n't spill or break , because I pinch the edge together so hard ; it be n't hurt a bit , so I 'll prick hole in it , and then it will be ready , '' say Sally , pick up the capsized treasure and put it into shape with a child-like disregard of the dust it have gather in it fall .
`` My new cook have a good temper , I see , and that be such a comfort , '' say Mrs. Jo .
`` Now open the jar of strawberry jam , fill the uncovered pie , and put some strip of paste over the top a Asia do . ''
`` I 'll make a D in the middle , and have zigzag all round , that will be so interesting when I come to eat it , '' say Sally , load the pie with quirls and flourish that would have drive a real pastry cook wild .
`` Now I put them in ! ''
she exclaim ; when the last grimy knob have be carefully plant in the red field of jam , and with an air of triumph she shut them into the little oven .
`` Clear up your thing ; a good cook never let her utensils collect .
Then pare your squash and potato . ''
`` There be only one potato , '' giggle Sally .
`` Cut it in four piece , so it will go into the little kettle , and put the bit into cold water till it be time to cook them . ''
`` Do I soak the squash too ? ''
`` No , indeed !
Just pare it and cut it up , and put in into the steamer over the pot .
It be drier so , though it take long to cook . ''
Here a scratching at the door cause Sally to run and open it , when Kit appear with a covered basket in his mouth .
`` Here 's the butcher boy ! ''
cry Daisy , much tickle at the idea , a she relieve him of his load , whereat he lick his lip and begin to beg , evidently think that it be his own dinner , for he often carry it to his master in that way .
Being undeceived , he depart in great wrath and bark all the way downstairs , to ease his wounded feeling .
In the basket be two bit of steak -LRB- doll 's pound -RRB- , a baked pear , a small cake , and paper with them on which Asia have scrawl , `` For Missy 's lunch , if her cookin ' do n't turn out well . ''
`` I do n't want any of her old pear and thing ; my cooking will turn out well , and I 'll have a splendid dinner ; see if I do n't ! ''
cry Daisy , indignantly .
`` We may like them if company should come .
It be always well to have something in the storeroom , '' say Aunt Jo , who have be teach this valuable fact by a series of domestic panic .
`` Me be hundry , '' announce Teddy , who begin to think what with so much cooking go on it be about time for somebody to eat something .
His mother give him her workbasket to rummage , hop to keep him quiet till dinner be ready , and return to her housekeeping .
`` Put on your vegetable , set the table , and then have some coal kindle ready for the steak . ''
What a thing it be to see the potato bob about in the little pot ; to peep at the squash get soft so fast in the tiny steamer ; to whisk open the oven door every five minute to see how the pie get on , and at last when the coal be red and glowing , to put two real steak on a finger-long gridiron and proudly turn them with a fork .
The potato be do first , and no wonder , for they have boil frantically all the while .
The be pound up with a little pestle , have much butter and no salt put in -LRB- cook forget it in the excitement of the moment -RRB- , then it be make into a mound in a gay red dish , smooth over with a knife dip in milk , and put in the oven to brown .
So absorb in these last performance have Sally be , that she forget her pastry till she open the door to put in the potato , then a wail arose , for ala !
ala !
the little pie be burnt black !
`` Oh , my pie !
My darling pie !
They be all spoilt ! ''
cry poor Sally , wring her dirty little hand a she survey the ruin of her work .
The tart be especially pathetic , for the quirls and zigzag stick up in all direction from the blacken jelly , like the wall and chimney of a house after a fire .
`` Dear , dear , I forget to remind you to take them out ; it 's just my luck , '' say Aunt Jo , remorsefully .
`` Do n't cry , darling , it be my fault ; we 'll try again after dinner , '' she add , a a great tear drop from Sally 's eye and sizzle on the hot ruin of the tart .
More would have follow , if the steak have not blaze up just then , and so occupy the attention of cook , that she quickly forget the lost pastry .
`` Put the meat-dish and your own plate down to warm , while you mash the squash with butter , salt , and a little pepper on the top , '' say Mrs. Jo , devoutly hop that the dinner would meet with no further disaster .
The `` cunning pepper-pot '' soothe Sally 's feeling , and she dish up her squash in fine style .
The dinner be safely put upon the table ; the six doll be seat three on a side ; Teddy take the bottom , and Sally the top .
When all be settle , it be a most imposing spectacle , for one doll be in full ball costume , another in her night-gown ; Jerry , the worsted boy , wear his red winter suit , while Annabella , the noseless darling , be airily attire in nothing but her own kid skin .
Teddy , a father of the family , behave with great propriety , for he smilingly devour everything offer him , and do not find a single fault .
Daisy beam upon her company like the weary , warm , but hospitable hostess so often to be see at large table than this , and do the honor with an air of innocent satisfaction , which we do not often see elsewhere .
The steak be so tough that the little carving-knife would not cut it ; the potato do not go round , and the squash be very lumpy ; but the guest appear politely unconscious of these trifle ; and the master and mistress of the house clear the table with appetite that anyone might envy them .
The joy of skim a jug-full of cream mitigate the anguish felt for the loss of the pie , and Asia 's despised cake prove a treasure in the way of dessert .
`` That be the nice lunch I ever have ; ca n't I do it every day ? ''
ask Daisy a she scrap up and eat the leaving all round .
`` You can cook thing every day after lesson , but I prefer that you should eat your dish at your regular meal , and only have a bit of gingerbread for lunch .
To-day , be the first time , I do n't mind , but we must keep our rule .
This afternoon you can make something for tea if you like , '' say Mrs. Jo , who have enjoy the dinner-party very much , though no one have invite her to partake .
`` Do let me make flapjack for Demi , he love them so , and it 's such fun to turn them and put sugar in between , '' cry Daisy , tenderly wipe a yellow stain off Annabella 's broken nose , for Bella have refuse to eat squash when it be press upon her a good for `` lumatism , '' a complaint which it be no wonder she suffer from , consider the lightness of her attire .
`` But if you give Demi goody , all the others will expect some also , and then you will have your hand full . ''
`` Could n't I have Demi come up to tea alone just this one time ?
And after that I could cook thing for the others if they be good , '' propose Daisy , with a sudden inspiration .
`` That be a capital idea , Posy !
We will make your little mess reward for the good boy , and I do n't know one among them who would not like something nice to eat more than almost anything else .
If little men be like big one , good cooking will touch their heart and soothe their temper delightfully , '' add Aunt Jo , with a merry nod toward the door , where stood Papa Bhaer , survey the scene with a face full of amusement .
`` That last hit be for me , sharp woman .
I accept it , for it be true ; but if I have marry thee for thy cooking , heart 's dear , I should have fare badly all these year , '' answer the professor , laugh a he toss Teddy , who become quite apoplectic in his endeavor to describe the feast he have just enjoy .
Daisy proudly show her kitchen , and rashly promised Uncle Fritz a many flapjack a he could eat .
She be just tell about the new reward when the boy , head by Demi , burst into the room snuff the air like a pack of hungry hound , for school be out , dinner be not ready , and the fragrance of Daisy 's steak lead them straight to the spot .
A prouder little damsel be never see than Sally a she display her treasure and tell the lad what be in store for them .
Several rather scoff at the idea of her cook anything fit to eat , but Stuffy 's heart be win at once .
Nat and Demi have firm faith in her skill , and the others say they would wait and see .
All admire the kitchen , however , and examine the stove with deep interest .
Demi offer to buy the boiler on the spot , to be use in a steam-engine which he be construct ; and Ned declare that the best and big saucepan be just the thing to melt his lead in when he run bullet , hatchet , and such trifle .
Daisy look so alarmed at these proposal , that Mrs. Jo then and there make and proclaim a law that no boy should touch , use , or even approach the sacred stove without a special permit from the owner thereof .
This increase it value immensely in the eye of the gentleman , especially a any infringement of the law would be punish by forfeiture of all right to partake of the delicacy promise to the virtuous .
At this point the bell rang , and the entire population go down to dinner , which meal be enliven by each of the boy give Daisy a list of thing he would like to have cook for him as fast a he earn them .
Daisy , whose faith in her stove be unlimited , promise everything , if Aunt Jo would tell her how to make them .
This suggestion rather alarm Mrs. Jo , for some of the dish be quite beyond her skill wedding-cake , for instance , bull 's - eye candy ; and cabbage soup with herring and cherry in it , which Mr. Bhaer propose a his favorite , and immediately reduce his wife to despair , for German cookery be beyond her .
Daisy want to begin again the minute dinner be do , but she be only allow to clear up , fill the kettle ready for tea , and wash out her apron , which look a if she have a Christmas feast .
She be then send out to play till five o'clock , for Uncle Fritz say that too much study , even at cook stove , be bad for little mind and body , and Aunt Jo know by long experience how soon new toy lose their charm if they be not prudently use .
Everyone be very kind to Daisy that afternoon .
Tommy promise her the first fruit of his garden , though the only visible crop just then be pigweed ; Nat offer to supply her with wood , free of charge ; Stuffy quite worship her ; Ned immediately fell to work on a little refrigerator for her kitchen ; and Demi , with a punctuality beautiful to see in one so young , escort her to the nursery just a the clock strike five .
It be not time for the party to begin , but he beg so hard to come in and help that he be allow privilege few visitor enjoy , for he kindle the fire , run errand , and watch the progress of his supper with intense interest .
Mrs. Jo direct the affair a she come and go , be very busy put up clean curtain all over the house .
`` Ask Asia for a cup of sour cream , then your cake will be light without much soda , which I do n't like , '' be the first order .
Demi tore downstairs , and return with the cream , also a puckered-up face , for he have taste it on his way , and find it so sour that he predict the cake would be uneatable .
Mrs. Jo take this occasion to deliver a short lecture from the step-ladder on the chemical property of soda , to which Daisy do not listen , but Demi do , and understand it , a he prove by the brief but comprehensive reply : `` Yes , I see , soda turn sour thing sweet , and the fizzle up make them light .
Let 's see you do it , Daisy . ''
`` Fill that bowl nearly full of flour and add a little salt to it , '' continue Mrs. Jo .
`` Oh dear , everything have to have salt in it , seem to me , '' say Sally , who be tire of open the pill-box in which it be keep .
`` Salt be like good-humor , and nearly every thing be well for a pinch of it , Posy , '' and Uncle Fritz stop a he pass , hammer in hand , to drive up two or three nail for Sally 's little pan to hang on .
`` You be not invite to tea , but I 'll give you some cake , and I wo n't be cross , '' say Daisy , put up her floury little face to thank him with a kiss .
`` Fritz , you must not interrupt my cook class , or I 'll come in and moralize when you be teach Latin .
How would you like that ? ''
say Mrs. Jo , throw a great chintz curtain down on his head .
`` Very much , try it and see , '' and the amiable Father Bhaer go sing and tap about the house like a mammoth woodpecker .
`` Put the soda into the cream , and when it ` fizzle , ' a Demi say , stir it into the flour , and beat it up as hard a ever you can .
Have your griddle hot , butter it well , and then fry away till I come back , '' and Aunt Jo vanish also .
Such a clatter a the little spoon make , and such a beating a the batter get , it quite foam , I assure you ; and when Daisy pour some on to the griddle , it rise like magic into a puffy flapjack that make Demi 's mouth water .
To be sure , the first one stuck and scorch , because she forget the butter , but after that first failure all go well , and six capital little cake be safely land in a dish .
`` I think I like maple-syrup well than sugar , '' say Demi , from his arm-chair where he have settle himself after set the table in a new and peculiar manner .
`` Then go and ask Asia for some , '' answer Daisy , go into the bath-room to wash her hand .
While the nursery be empty something dreadful happen .
You see , Kit have be feel hurt all day because he have carry meat safely and yet get none to pay him .
He be not a bad dog , but he have his little fault like the rest of u , and could not always resist temptation .
Happening to stroll into the nursery at that moment , he smelt the cake , saw them unguarded on the low table , and never stop to think of consequence , swallow all six at one mouthful .
I be glad to say that they be very hot , and burn him so badly that he could not repress a surprised yelp .
Daisy hear it , run in , saw the empty dish , also the end of a yellow tail disappear under the bed .
Without a word she seize that tail , pull out the thief , and shake him till his ear flap wildly , then bundle him down-stairs to the shed , where he spend a lonely evening in the coal-bin .
Cheered by the sympathy which Demi give her , Daisy make another bowlful of batter , and fry a dozen cake , which be even good than the others .
Indeed , Uncle Fritz after eat two send up word that he have never taste any so nice , and every boy at the table below envy Demi at the flapjack party above .
It be a truly delightful supper , for the little teapot lid only fell off three time and the milk jug upset but once ; the cake float in syrup , and the toast have a delicious beef-steak flavor , owe to cook 's use the gridiron to make it on .
Demi forget philosophy , and stuffed like any carnal boy , while Daisy plan sumptuous banquet , and the doll look on smile affably .
`` Well , deary , have you have a good time ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , come up with Teddy on her shoulder .
`` A very good time .
I shall come again soon , '' answer Demi , with emphasis .
`` I 'm afraid you have eat too much , by the look of that table . ''
`` No , I have n't ; I only eat fifteen cake , and they be very little one , '' protest Demi , who have keep his sister busy supply his plate .
`` They wo n't hurt him , they be so nice , '' say Daisy , with such a funny mixture of maternal fondness and housewifely pride that Aunt Jo could only smile and say : `` Well , on the whole , the new game be a success then ? ''
`` I like it , '' say Demi , a if his approval be all that be necessary .
`` It be the dear play ever make ! ''
cry Daisy , hug her little dish-tub a she propose to wash up the cup .
`` I just wish everybody have a sweet cooking stove like mine , '' she add , regard it with affection .
`` This play out to have a name , '' say Demi , gravely remove the syrup from his countenance with his tongue .
`` It have . ''
`` Oh , what ? ''
ask both child eagerly .
`` Well , I think we will call it Pattypans , '' and Aunt Jo retire , satisfy with the success of her last trap to catch a sunbeam .
CHAPTER VI .
A FIRE BRAND `` Please , ma'am , could I speak to you ?
It be something very important , '' say Nat , pop his head in at the door of Mrs. Bhaer 's room .
It be the fifth head which have pop in during the last half-hour ; but Mrs. Jo be use to it , so she look up , and say , briskly , `` What be it , my lad ? ''
Nat come in , shut the door carefully behind him , and say in an eager , anxious tone , `` Dan have come . ''
`` Who be Dan ? ''
`` He 's a boy I use to know when I fiddle round the street .
He sell paper , and he be kind to me , and I saw him the other day in town , and tell him how nice it be here , and he 's come . ''
`` But , my dear boy , that be rather a sudden way to pay a visit . ''
`` Oh , it be n't a visit ; he want to stay if you will let him ! ''
say Nat innocently .
`` Well , I do n't know about that , '' begin Mrs. Bhaer , rather startle by the coolness of the proposition .
`` Why , I think you like to have poor boy come and live with you , and be kind to 'em a you be to me , '' say Nat , look surprised and alarmed .
`` So I do , but I like to know something about them first .
I have to choose them , because there be so many .
I have not room for all .
I wish I have . ''
`` I tell him to come because I think you 'd like it , but if there be n't room he can go away again , '' say Nat , sorrowfully .
The boy 's confidence in her hospitality touch Mrs. Bhaer , and she could not find the heart to disappoint his hope , and spoil his kind little plan , so she say , `` Tell me about this Dan . ''
`` I do n't know any thing , only he have n't get any folk , and he 's poor , and he be good to me , so I 'd like to be good to him if I could . ''
`` Excellent reason every one ; but really , Nat , the house be full , and I do n't know where I could put him , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , more and more inclined to prove herself the haven of refuge he seem to think her .
`` He could have my bed , and I could sleep in the barn .
It be n't cold now , and I do n't mind , I use to sleep anywhere with father , '' say Nat , eagerly .
Something in his speech and face make Mrs. Jo put her hand on his shoulder , and say in her kind tone : `` Bring in your friend , Nat ; I think we must find room for him without give him your place . ''
Nat joyfully run off , and soon return follow by a most unprepossessing boy , who slouch in and stand look about him , with a half bold , half sullen look , which make Mrs. Bhaer say to herself , after one glance , `` A bad specimen , I be afraid . ''
`` This be Dan , '' say Nat , present him a if sure of his welcome .
`` Nat tell me you would like to come and stay with u , '' begin Mrs. Jo , in a friendly tone .
`` Yes , '' be the gruff reply .
`` Have you no friend to take care of you ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Say , ` No , ma'am , ' '' whisper Nat .
`` Sha n't neither , '' mutter Dan .
`` How old be you ? ''
`` About fourteen . ''
`` You look old .
What can you do ? '' ''
` Most anything . ''
`` If you stay here we shall want you to do a the others do , work and study as well a play .
Are you willing to agree to that ? ''
`` Do n't mind try . ''
`` Well , you can stay a few day , and we will see how we get on together .
Take him out , Nat , and amuse him till Mr. Bhaer come home , when we will settle about the matter , '' say Mrs. Jo , find it rather difficult to get on with this cool young person , who fix his big black eye on her with a hard , suspicious expression , sorrowfully unboyish .
`` Come on , Nat , '' he say , and slouch out again .
`` Thank you , ma'am , '' add Nat , a he follow him , feel without quite understand the difference in the welcome give to him and to his ungracious friend .
`` The fellow be have a circus out in the barn ; do n't you want to come and see it ? ''
he ask , a they come down the wide step on to the lawn .
`` Are they big fellow ? ''
say Dan .
`` No ; the big one be go fishing . ''
`` Fire away , then , '' say Dan .
Nat lead him to the great barn and introduce him to his set , who be disport themselves among the half-empty loft .
A large circle be mark out with hay on the wide floor , and in the middle stand Demi with a long whip , while Tommy , mount on the much-enduring Toby , prance about the circle play be a monkey .
`` You must pay a pin apiece , or you ca n't see the show , '' say Stuffy , who stand by the wheelbarrow in which sit the band , consist of a pocket-comb blown upon by Ned , and a toy drum beat spasmodically by Rob .
`` He 's company , so I 'll pay for both , '' say Nat , handsomely , a he stick two crooked pin in the dried mushroom which serve a money-box .
With a nod to the company they seat themselves on a couple of board , and the performance go on .
After the monkey act , Ned give them a fine specimen of his agility by jump over an old chair , and run up and down ladder , sailor fashion .
Then Demi dance a jig with a gravity beautiful to behold .
Nat be call upon to wrestle with Stuffy , and speedily lay that stout youth upon the ground .
After this , Tommy proudly advance to turn a somersault , an accomplishment which he have acquire by painful perseverance , practise in private till every joint of his little frame be black and blue .
His feat be receive with great applause , and he be about to retire , flush with pride and a rush of blood to the head , when a scornful voice in the audience be hear to say , `` Ho !
that ai n't any thing ! ''
`` Say that again , will you ? ''
and Tommy bristle up like an angry turkey-cock .
`` Do you want to fight ? ''
say Dan , promptly descend from the barrel and double up his fist in a business-like manner .
`` No , I do n't ; '' and the candid Thomas retire a step , rather take aback by the proposition .
`` Fighting be n't allow ! ''
cry the others , much excite .
`` You 're a nice lot , '' sneer Dan .
`` Come , if you do n't behave , you sha n't stay , '' say Nat , fire up at that insult to his friend .
`` I 'd like to see him do good than I do , that 's all , '' observe Tommy , with a swagger .
`` Clear the way , then , '' and without the slight preparation Dan turn three somersault one after the other and come up on his foot .
`` You ca n't beat that , Tom ; you always hit your head and tumble flat , '' say Nat , please at his friend 's success .
Before he could say any more the audience be electrify by three more somersault backwards , and a short promenade on the hand , head down , foot up .
This bring down the house , and Tommy join in the admiring cry which greet the accomplished gymnast a he right himself , and look at them with an air of calm superiority .
`` Do you think I could learn to do it without it hurt me very much ? ''
Tom meekly ask , a he rub the elbow which still smart after the last attempt .
`` What will you give me if I 'll teach you ? ''
say Dan .
`` My new jack-knife ; it 's get five blade , and only one be break . ''
`` Give it here , then . ''
Tommy hand it over with an affectionate look at it smooth handle .
Dan examine it carefully , then put it into his pocket , walk off , say with a wink , `` Keep it up till you learn , that 's all . ''
A howl of wrath from Tommy be follow by a general uproar , which do not subside till Dan , find himself in a minority , propose that they should play stick-knife , and whichever win should have the treasure .
Tommy agree , and the game be play in a circle of excited face , which all wear an expression of satisfaction , when Tommy win and secure the knife in the depth of his safe pocket .
`` You come off with me , and I 'll show you round , '' say Nat , feel that he must have a little serious conversation with his friend in private .
What pass between them no one knew , but when they appear again , Dan be more respectful to every one , though still gruff in his speech , and rough in his manner ; and what else could be expect of the poor lad who have be knock about the world all his short life with no one to teach him any good ?
The boy have decide that they do not like him , and so they leave him to Nat , who soon felt rather oppress by the responsibility , but too kind-hearted to desert him .
Tommy , however , felt that in spite of the jack-knife transaction , there be a bond of sympathy between them , and long to return to the interesting subject of somersault .
He soon find an opportunity , for Dan , see how much he admire him , grow more amiable , and by the end of the first week be quite intimate with the lively Tom .
Mr. Bhaer , when he hear the story and saw Dan , shake his head , but only say quietly , `` The experiment may cost u something , but we will try it . ''
If Dan felt any gratitude for his protection , he do not show it , and take without thanks all that be give him .
He be ignorant , but very quick to learn when he choose ; have sharp eye to watch what go on about him ; a saucy tongue , rough manner , and a temper that be fierce and sullen by turn .
He play with all his might , and play well at almost all the game .
He be silent and gruff before grown people , and only now and then be thoroughly sociable among the lad .
Few of them really like him , but few could help admire his courage and strength , for nothing daunt him , and he knock tall Franz flat on one occasion with an ease that cause all the others to keep at a respectful distance from his fist .
Mr. Bhaer watch him silently , and do his best to tame the `` Wild Boy , '' a they call him , but in private the worthy man shake his head , and say soberly , `` I hope the experiment will turn out well , but I be a little afraid it may cost too much . ''
Mrs. Bhaer lose her patience with him half a dozen time a day , yet never give him up , and always insist that there be something good in the lad , after all ; for he be kinder to animal than to people , he like to rove about in the wood , and , best of all , little Ted be fond of him .
What the secret be no one could discover , but Baby take to him at once gabble and crow whenever he saw him prefer his strong back to ride on to any of the others and call him `` My Danny '' out of his own little head .
Teddy be the only creature to whom Dan show an affection , and this be only manifested when he think no one else would see it ; but mother ' eye be quick , and motherly heart instinctively divine who love their baby .
So Mrs. Jo soon saw and felt that there be a soft spot in rough Dan , and bid her time to touch and win him .
But an unexpected and decidedly alarming event upset all their plan , and banish Dan from Plumfield .
Tommy , Nat , and Demi begin by patronize Dan , because the other lad rather slight him ; but soon they each felt there be a certain fascination about the bad boy , and from look down upon him they come to look up , each for a different reason .
Tommy admire his skill and courage ; Nat be grateful for past kindness ; and Demi regard him a a sort of animated story book , for when he choose Dan could tell his adventure in a most interesting way .
It please Dan to have the three favorite like him , and he exert himself to be agreeable , which be the secret of his success .
The Bhaers be surprised , but hop the lad would have a good influence over Dan , and wait with some anxiety , trust that no harm would come of it .
Dan felt they do not quite trust him , and never show them his best side , but take a wilful pleasure in try their patience and thwart their hope as far a he dare .
Mr. Bhaer do not approve of fighting , and do not think it a proof of either manliness or courage for two lad to pommel one another for the amusement of the rest .
All sort of hardy game and exercise be encourage , and the boy be expect to take hard knock and tumble without whine ; but black eye and bloody nose give for the fun of it be forbid a a foolish and a brutal play .
Dan laugh at this rule , and tell such exciting tale of his own valor , and the many fray that he have be in , that some of the lad be fire with a desire to have a regular good `` mill . ''
`` Do n't tell , and I 'll show you how , '' say Dan ; and , get half a dozen of the lad together behind the barn , he give them a lesson in boxing , which quite satisfy the ardor of most of them .
Emil , however , could not submit to be beat by a fellow young than himself , for Emil be past fourteen and a plucky fellow , so he challenge Dan to a fight .
Dan accept at once , and the others look on with intense interest .
What little bird carry the news to head-quarters no one ever know , but , in the very hot of the fray , when Dan and Emil be fight like a pair of young bulldog , and the others with fierce , excited face be cheer them on , Mr. Bhaer walk into the ring , pluck the combatant apart with a strong hand , and say , in the voice they seldom hear , `` I ca n't allow this , boys !
Stop it at once ; and never let me see it again .
I keep a school for boy , not for wild beast .
Look at each other and be ashamed of yourselves . ''
`` You let me go , and I 'll knock him down again , '' shout Dan , spar away in spite of the grip on his collar .
`` Come on , come on , I ai n't thrash yet ! ''
cry Emil , who have be down five time , but do not know when he be beat .
`` They be play be gladdy what-you-call - 'em s , like the Romans , Uncle Fritz , '' call out Demi , whose eye be big than ever with the excitement of this new pastime .
`` They be a fine set of brute ; but we have learn something since then , I hope , and I can not have you make my barn a Colosseum .
Who propose this ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer .
`` Dan , '' answer several voice .
`` Do n't you know that it be forbid ? ''
`` Yes , '' growl Dan , sullenly .
`` Then why break the rule ? ''
`` They 'll all be molly-coddles , if they do n't know how to fight . ''
`` Have you find Emil a molly-coddle ?
He do n't look much like one , '' and Mr. Bhaer bring the two face to face .
Dan have a black eye , and his jacket be tear to rag , but Emil 's face be cover with blood from a cut lip and a bruised nose , while a bump on his forehead be already as purple a a plum .
In spite of his wound however , he still glare upon his foe , and evidently pant to renew the fight .
`` He 'd make a first-rater if he be teach , '' say Dan , unable to withhold the praise from the boy who make it necessary for him to do his best .
`` He 'll be teach to fence and box by and by , and till then I think he will do very well without any lesson in mauling .
Go and wash your face ; and remember , Dan , if you break any more of the rule again , you will be send away .
That be the bargain ; do your part and we will do ours . ''
The lad go off , and after a few more word to the spectator , Mr. Bhaer follow to bind up the wound of the young gladiator .
Emil go to bed sick , and Dan be an unpleasant spectacle for a week .
But the lawless lad have no thought of obey , and soon transgress again .
One Saturday afternoon a a party of the boy go out to play , Tommy say , `` Let 's go down to the river , and cut a lot of new fish-poles . ''
`` Take Toby to drag them back , and one of u can ride him down , '' propose Stuffy , who hat to walk .
`` That mean you , I suppose ; well , hurry up , lazy-bones , '' say Dan .
Away they go , and have get the pole be about to go home , when Demi unluckily say to Tommy , who be on Toby with a long rod in his hand , `` You look like the picture of the man in the bull-fight , only you have n't get a red cloth , or pretty clothes on . ''
`` I 'd like to see one ; there 's old Buttercup in the big meadow , ride at her , Tom , and see her run , '' propose Dan , bent on mischief .
`` No , you must n't , '' begin Demi , who be learn to distrust Dan 's proposition .
`` Why not , little fuss-button ? ''
demand Dan .
`` I do n't think Uncle Fritz would like it . ''
`` Did he ever say we must not have a bull-fight ? ''
`` No , I do n't think he ever do , '' admit Demi .
`` Then hold your tongue .
Drive on , Tom , and here 's a red rag to flap at the old thing .
I 'll help you to stir her up , '' and over the wall go Dan , full of the new game , and the rest follow like a flock of sheep ; even Demi , who sit upon the bar , and watch the fun with interest .
Poor Buttercup be not in a very good mood , for she have be lately bereft of her calf , and mourn for the little thing most dismally .
Just now she regard all mankind a her enemy -LRB- and I do not blame her -RRB- , so when the matadore come prance towards her with the red handkerchief fly at the end of his long lance , she throw up her head , and give a most appropriate `` Moo ! ''
Tommy rode gallantly at her , and Toby recognize an old friend , be quite willing to approach ; but when the lance come down on her back with a loud whack , both cow and donkey be surprised and disgust .
Toby back with a bray of remonstrance , and Buttercup lower her horn angrily .
`` At her again , Tom ; she 's jolly cross , and will do it capitally ! ''
call Dan , come up behind with another rod , while Jack and Ned follow his example .
Seeing herself thus beset , and treat with such disrespect , Buttercup trot round the field , get more and more bewildered and excited every moment , for whichever way she turn , there be a dreadful boy , yell and brandish a new and very disagreeable sort of whip .
It be great fun for them , but real misery for her , till she lose patience and turn the table in the most unexpected manner .
All at once she wheel short round , and charge full at her old friend Toby , whose conduct cut her to the heart .
Poor slow Toby back so precipitately that he trip over a stone , and down go horse , matadore , and all , in one ignominious heap , while distract Buttercup take a surprising leap over the wall , and gallop wildly out of sight down the road .
`` Catch her , stop her , head her off !
run , boys , run ! ''
shout Dan , tear after her at his best pace , for she be Mr. Bhaer 's pet Alderney , and if anything happen to her , Dan fear it would be all over with him .
Such a running and racing and bawling and puffing a there be before she be catch !
The fish-poles be leave behind ; Toby be trot nearly off his leg in the chase ; and every boy be red , breathless , and scar .
They find poor Buttercup at last in a flower garden , where she have take refuge , wear out with the long run .
Borrowing a rope for a halter , Dan lead her home , follow by a party of very sober young gentleman , for the cow be in a sad state , have strain her shoulder jumping , so that she limp , her eye look wild , and her glossy coat be wet and muddy .
`` You 'll catch it this time , Dan , '' say Tommy , a he lead the wheeze donkey beside the maltreated cow .
`` So will you , for you help . ''
`` We all do , but Demi , '' add Jack .
`` He put it into our head , '' say Ned .
`` I tell you not to do it , '' cry Demi , who be most broken-hearted at poor Buttercup 's state .
`` Old Bhaer will send me off , I guess .
Do n't care if he do , '' mutter Dan , look worry in spite of his word .
`` We 'll ask him not to , all of u , '' say Demi , and the others assent with the exception of Stuffy , who cherish the hope that all the punishment might fall on one guilty head .
Dan only say , `` Do n't bother about me ; '' but he never forget it , even though he lead the lad astray again , as soon a the temptation come .
When Mr. Bhaer saw the animal , and hear the story , he say very little , evidently fear that he should say too much in the first moment of impatience .
Buttercup be make comfortable in her stall , and the boy send to their room till supper-time .
This brief respite give them time to think the matter over , to wonder what the penalty would be , and to try to imagine where Dan would be send .
He whistle briskly in his room , so that no one should think he care a bit ; but while he wait to know his fate , the longing to stay grow strong and strong , the more he recall the comfort and kindness he have know here , the hardship and neglect he have felt elsewhere .
He know they try to help him , and at the bottom of his heart he be grateful , but his rough life have make him hard and careless , suspicious and wilful .
He hat restraint of any sort , and fought against it like an untamed creature , even while he know it be kindly meant , and dimly felt that he would be the good for it .
He make up his mind to be turn adrift again , to knock about the city a he have do nearly all his life ; a prospect that make him knit his black brow , and look about the cosy little room with a wistful expression that would have touch a much hard heart than Mr. Bhaer 's if he have see it .
It vanish instantly , however , when the good man come in , and say in his accustomed grave way , `` I have hear all about it , Dan , and though you have break the rule again , I be go to give you one more trial , to please Mother Bhaer . ''
Dan flush up to his forehead at this unexpected reprieve , but he only say in his gruff way , `` I do n't know there be any rule about bull-fighting . ''
`` As I never expect to have any at Plumfield , I never do make such a rule , '' answer Mr. Bhaer , smile in spite of himself at the boy 's excuse .
Then he add gravely , `` But one of the first and most important of our few law be the law of kindness to every dumb creature on the place .
I want everybody and everything to be happy here , to love and trust , and serve u , a we try to love and trust and serve them faithfully and willingly .
I have often say that you be kinder to the animal than any of the other boy , and Mrs. Bhaer like that trait in you very much , because she think it show a good heart .
But you have disappoint u in that , and we be sorry , for we hop to make you quite one of u .
Shall we try again ? ''
Dan 's eye have be on the floor , and his hand nervously pick at the bit of wood he have be whittle a Mr. Bhaer come in , but when he hear the kind voice ask that question , he look up quickly , and say in a more respectful tone than he have ever use before , `` Yes , please . ''
`` Very well , then , we will say no more , only you will stay at home from the walk to-morrow , a the other boy will and all of you must wait on poor Buttercup till she be well again . ''
`` I will . ''
`` Now , go down to supper , and do your best , my boy , more for your own sake than for ours . ''
Then Mr. Bhaer shake hand with him , and Dan go down more tamed by kindness than he would have be by the good whipping which Asia have strongly recommend .
Dan do try for a day or two , but not be use to it , he soon tire and relapse into his old wilful way .
Mr. Bhaer be call from home on business one day , and the boy have no lesson .
They like this , and play hard till bedtime , when most of them turn in and sleep like dormouse .
Dan , however , have a plan in his head , and when he and Nat be alone , he unfold it .
`` Look here ! ''
he say , take from under his bed a bottle , a cigar , and a pack of card , `` I 'm go to have some fun , and do a I use to with the fellow in town .
Here 's some beer , I get if of the old man at the station , and this cigar ; you can pay for 'em or Tommy will , he 's get heap of money and I have n't a cent .
I 'm go to ask him in ; no , you go , they wo n't mind you . ''
`` The folk wo n't like it , '' begin Nat .
`` They wo n't know .
Daddy Bhaer be away , and Mrs. Bhaer 's busy with Ted ; he 's get croup or something , and she ca n't leave him .
We sha n't sit up late or make any noise , so where 's the harm ? ''
`` Asia will know if we burn the lamp long , she always do . ''
`` No , she wo n't , I 've get a dark lantern on purpose ; it do n't give much light , and we can shut it quick if we hear anyone come , '' say Dan .
This idea strike Nat a a fine one , and lend an air of romance to the thing .
He start off to tell Tommy , but put his head in again to say , `` You want Demi , too , do n't you ? ''
`` No , I do n't ; the Deacon will rollup eye and preach if you tell him .
He will be asleep , so just tip the wink to Tom and cut back again . ''
Nat obey , and return in a minute with Tommy half dress , rather tousle about the head and very sleepy , but quite ready for fun a usual .
`` Now , keep quiet , and I 'll show you how to play a first-rate game call ` Poker , ' '' say Dan , a the three reveller gather round the table , on which be set forth the bottle , the cigar , and the card .
`` First we 'll all have a drink , then we 'll take a go at the ` weed , ' and then we 'll play .
That 's the way men do , and it 's jolly fun . ''
The beer circulate in a mug , and all three smack their lip over it , though Nat and Tommy do not like the bitter stuff .
The cigar be bad still , but they dare not say so , and each puffed away till he be dizzy or choke , when he pass the `` weed '' on to his neighbor .
Dan like it , for it seem like old time when he now and then have a chance to imitate the low men who surround him .
He drink , and smoke , and swagger as much like them a he could , and , get into the spirit of the part he assume , he soon begin to swear under his breath for fear some one should hear him .
`` You must n't ; it 's wicked to say ` Damn ! ' ''
cry Tommy , who have follow his leader so far .
`` Oh , hang !
do n't you preach , but play away ; it 's part of the fun to swear . ''
`` I 'd rather say ` thunder turtle , ' '' say Tommy , who have compose this interesting exclamation and be very proud of it .
`` And I 'll say ` The Devil ; ' that sound well , '' add Nat , much impress by Dan 's manly way .
Dan scoff at their `` nonsense , '' and swore stoutly a he try to teach them the new game .
But Tommy be very sleepy , and Nat 's head begin to ache with the beer and the smoke , so neither of them be very quick to learn , and the game drag .
The room be nearly dark , for the lantern burn badly ; they could not laugh loud nor move about much , for Silas sleep next door in the shed-chamber , and altogether the party be dull .
In the middle of a deal Dan stop suddenly , and call out , `` Who 's that ? ''
in a startled tone , and at the same moment draw the slide over the light .
A voice in the darkness say tremulously , `` I ca n't find Tommy , '' and then there be the quick patter of bare foot run away down the entry that lead from the wing to the main house .
`` It 's Demi !
he 's go to call some one ; cut into bed , Tom , and do n't tell ! ''
cried Dan , whisk all sign of the revel out of sight , and begin to tear off his clothes , while Nat do the same .
Tommy fly to his room and dive into bed , where he lay , laugh till something burn his hand , when he discover that he be still clutch the stump of the festive cigar , which he happen to be smoke when the revel break up .
It be nearly out , and he be about to extinguish it carefully when Nursey 's voice be hear , and fear it would betray him if he hide it in the bed , he throw it underneath , after a final pinch which he think finish it .
Nursey come in with Demi , who look much amaze to see the red face of Tommy repose peacefully upon his pillow .
`` He be n't there just now , because I wake up and could not find him anywhere , '' say Demi , pounce on him .
`` What mischief be you at now , bad child ? ''
ask Nursey , with a good-natured shake , which make the sleeper open his eye to say meekly , `` I only run into Nat 's room to see him about something .
Go away , and let me alone ; I 'm awful sleepy . ''
Nursey tuck Demi in , and go off to reconnoitre , but only find two boy slumber peacefully in Dan 's room .
`` Some little frolic , '' she think , and a there be no harm do she say nothing to Mrs. Bhaer , who be busy and worry over little Teddy .
Tommy be sleepy , and tell Demi to mind his own business and not ask question , he be snore in ten minute , little dream what be go on under his bed .
The cigar do not go out , but smoulder away on the straw carpet till it be nicely on fire , and a hungry little flame go creep along till the dimity bedcover caught , then the sheet , and then the bed itself .
The beer make Tommy sleep heavily , and the smoke stupified Demi , so they sleep on till the fire begin to scorch them , and they be in danger of be burn to death .
Franz be sit up to study , and a he leave the school-room he smelt the smoke , dash up-stairs and saw it come in a cloud from the left wing of the house .
Without stop to call any one , he run into the room , drag the boy from the blazing bed , and splash all the water he could find at hand on to the flame .
It check but do not quench the fire , and the child waken on be tumble topsy-turvy into a cold hall , begin to roar at the top of their voice .
Mrs. Bhaer instantly appear , and a minute after Silas burst out of his room shouting , `` Fire ! ''
in a tone that raise the whole house .
A flock of white goblin with scared face crowd into the hall , and for a minute every one be panic-stricken .
Then Mrs. Bhaer find her wit , bade Nursey see to the burnt boys , and send Franz and Silas down-stairs for some tub of wet clothes which she fling on the bed , over the carpet , and up against the curtain , now burn finely , and threaten to kindle the wall .
Most of the boy stand dumbly look on , but Dan and Emil work bravely , run to and fro with water from the bath-room , and help to pull down the dangerous curtain .
The peril be soon over , and order the boys all back to bed , and leave Silas to watch l the fire break out again , Mrs. Bhaer and Franz go to see how the poor boy get on .
Demi have escape with one burn and a grand scare , but Tommy have not only most of his hair scorch off his head , but a great burn on his arm , that make him half crazy with the pain .
Demi be soon make cosy , and Franz take him away to his own bed , where the kind lad soothe his fright and hum him to sleep as cosily a a woman .
Nursey watch over poor Tommy all night , try to ease his misery , and Mrs. Bhaer vibrate between him and little Teddy with oil and cotton , paregoric and squill , say to herself from time to time , a if she find great amusement in the thought , `` I always know Tommy would set the house on fire , and now he have do it ! ''
When Mr. Bhaer get home next morning he find a nice state of thing .
Tommy in bed , Teddy wheeze like a little grampus , Mrs. Jo quite use up , and the whole flock of boy so excite that they all talk at once , and almost drag him by main force to view the ruin .
Under his quiet management thing soon fell into order , for every one felt that he be equal to a dozen conflagration , and work with a will at whatever task he give them .
There be no school that morning , but by afternoon the damage room be put to right , the invalid be good , and there be time to hear and judge the little culprit quietly .
Nat and Tommy tell their part in the mischief , and be honestly sorry for the danger they have bring to the dear old house and all in it .
But Dan put on his devil-may-care look , and would not own that there be much harm do .
Now , of all thing , Mr. Bhaer hat drinking , gambling , and swearing ; smoking he have give up that the lad might not be tempt to try it , and it grieve and anger him deeply to find that the boy , with whom he have try to be most forbearing , should take advantage of his absence to introduce these forbidden vice , and teach his innocent little lad to think it manly and pleasant to indulge in them .
He talk long and earnestly to the assembled boy , and end by say , with an air of mingled firmness and regret , `` I think Tommy be punish enough , and that scar on his arm will remind him for a long time to let these thing alone .
Nat 's fright will do for him , for he be really sorry , and do try to obey me .
But you , Dan , have be many time forgiven , and yet it do no good .
I can not have my boy hurt by your bad example , nor my time waste in talk to deaf ear , so you can say good-bye to them all , and tell Nursey to put up your thing in my little black bag . ''
`` Oh !
sir , where be he go ? ''
cry Nat .
`` To a pleasant place up in the country , where I sometimes send boy when they do n't do well here .
Mr . Page be a kind man , and Dan will be happy there if he choose to do his best . ''
`` Will he ever come back ? ''
ask Demi .
`` That will depend on himself ; I hope so . ''
As he speak , Mr. Bhaer leave the room to write his letter to Mr . Page , and the boy crowd round Dan very much a people do about a man who be go on a long and perilous journey to unknown region .
`` I wonder if you 'll like it , '' begin Jack .
`` Sha n't stay if I do n't , '' say Dan coolly .
`` Where will you go ? ''
ask Nat .
`` I may go to sea , or out west , or take a look at California , '' answer Dan , with a reckless air that quite take away the breath of the little boy .
`` Oh , do n't !
stay with Mr . Page awhile and then come back here ; do , Dan , '' plead Nat , much affect at the whole affair .
`` I do n't care where I go , or how long I stay , and I 'll be hang if I ever come back here , '' with which wrathful speech Dan go away to put up his thing , every one of which Mr. Bhaer have give him .
That be the only good-bye he give the boy , for they be all talk the matter over in the barn when he come down , and he tell Nat not to call them .
The wagon stand at the door , and Mrs. Bhaer come out to speak to Dan , look so sad that his heart smote him , and he say in a low tone , `` May I say good-bye to Teddy ? ''
`` Yes , dear ; go in and kiss him , he will miss his Danny very much . ''
No one saw the look in Dan 's eye a he stoop over the crib , and saw the little face light up at first sight of him , but he hear Mrs. Bhaer say pleadingly , `` Ca n't we give the poor lad one more trial , Fritz ? ''
and Mr. Bhaer answer in his steady way , `` My dear , it be not best , so let him go where he can do no harm to others , while they do good to him , and by and by he shall come back , I promise you . ''
`` He 's the only boy we ever fail with , and I be so grieved , for I think there be the making of a fine man in him , spite of his fault . ''
Dan hear Mrs. Bhaer sigh , and he want to ask for one more trial himself , but his pride would not let him , and he come out with the hard look on his face , shake hand without a word , and drive away with Mr. Bhaer , leave Nat and Mrs. Jo to look after him with tear in their eye .
A few day afterwards they receive a letter from Mr . Page , say that Dan be do well , whereat they all rejoice .
But three week later come another letter , say that Dan have run away , and nothing have be hear of him , whereat they all look sober , and Mr. Bhaer say , `` Perhaps I ought to have give him another chance . ''
Mrs. Bhaer , however , nod wisely and answer , `` Do n't be trouble , Fritz ; the boy will come back to u , I 'm sure of it . ''
But time go on and no Dan come .
CHAPTER VII .
NAUGHTY NAN `` Fritz , I 've get a new idea , '' cry Mrs. Bhaer , a she meet her husband one day after school .
`` Well , my dear , what be it ? ''
and he wait willingly to hear the new plan , for some of Mrs. Jo 's idea be so droll , it be impossible to help laugh at them , though usually they be quite sensible , and he be glad to carry them out .
`` Daisy need a companion , and the boy would be all the good for another girl among them ; you know we believe in bring up little men and woman together , and it be high time we act up to our belief .
They pet and tyrannize over Daisy by turn , and she be get spoil .
Then they must learn gentle way , and improve their manner , and have girl about will do it good than any thing else . ''
`` You be right , a usual .
Now , who shall we have ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , see by the look in her eye that Mrs. Jo have some one all ready to propose .
`` Little Annie Harding . ''
`` What !
Naughty Nan , a the lad call her ? ''
cried Mr. Bhaer , look very much amuse .
`` Yes , she be run wild at home since her mother die , and be too bright a child to be spoil by servant .
I have have my eye on her for some time , and when I meet her father in town the other day I ask him why he do not send her to school .
He say he would gladly if he could find a good a school for girl a ours be for boy .
I know he would rejoice to have her come ; so suppose we drive over this afternoon and see about it . ''
`` Have not you care enough now , my Jo , without this little gypsy to torment you ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , pat the hand that lay on his arm .
`` Oh dear , no , '' say Mother Bhaer , briskly .
`` I like it , and never be happy than since I have my wilderness of boy .
You see , Fritz , I feel a great sympathy for Nan , because I be such a naughty child myself that I know all about it .
She be full of spirit , and only need to be teach what to do with them to be a nice a little girl a Daisy .
Those quick wit of hers would enjoy lesson if they be rightly direct , and what be now a tricksy midget would soon become a busy , happy child .
I know how to manage her , for I remember how my bless mother manage me , and -- '' `` And if you succeed half as well a she do , you will have do a magnificent work , '' interrupt Mr. Bhaer , who labor under the delusion that Mrs. B. be the best and most charming woman alive .
`` Now , if you make fun of my plan I 'll give you bad coffee for a week , and then where be you , sir ? ''
cried Mrs. Jo , tweak him by the ear just a if he be one of the boy .
`` Wo n't Daisy 's hair stand erect with horror at Nan 's wild way ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , presently , when Teddy have swarm up his waistcoat , and Rob up his back , for they always fly at their father the minute school be do .
`` At first , perhaps , but it will do Posy good .
She be get prim and Bettyish , and need stir up a bit .
She always have a good time when Nan come over to play , and the two will help each other without know it .
Dear me , half the science of teaching be know how much child do for one another , and when to mix them . ''
`` I only hope she wo n't turn out another firebrand . ''
`` My poor Dan !
I never can quite forgive myself for let him go , '' sigh Mrs. Bhaer .
At the sound of the name , little Teddy , who have never forget his friend , struggle down from his father 's arm , and trot to the door , look out over the sunny lawn with a wistful face , and then trot back again , say , a he always do when disappointed of the longed-for sight , `` My Danny 's tummin ' soon . ''
`` I really think we ought to have keep him , if only for Teddy 's sake , he be so fond of him , and perhaps baby 's love would have do for him what we fail to do . ''
`` I 've sometimes felt that myself ; but after keep the boy in a ferment , and nearly burn up the whole family , I think it safe to remove the firebrand , for a time at least , '' say Mr. Bhaer .
`` Dinner 's ready , let me ring the bell , '' and Rob begin a solo upon that instrument which make it impossible to hear one 's self speak .
`` Then I may have Nan , may I ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo .
`` A dozen Nans if you want them , my dear , '' answer Mr. Bhaer , who have room in his fatherly heart for all the naughty neglect child in the world .
When Mrs. Bhaer return from her drive that afternoon , before she could unpack the load of little boy , without whom she seldom move , a small girl of ten skip out at the back of the carry-all and run into the house , shout , `` Hi , Daisy !
where be you ? ''
Daisy come , and look pleased to see her guest , but also a trifle alarm , when Nan say , still prance , a if it be impossible to keep still , `` I 'm go to stay here always , papa say I may , and my box be come tomorrow , all my thing have to be wash and mend , and your aunt come and carry me off .
Is n't it great fun ? ''
`` Why , yes .
Did you bring your big doll ? ''
ask Daisy , hop she have , for on the last visit Nan have ravage the baby house , and insist on wash Blanche Matilda 's plaster face , which spoil the poor dear 's complexion for ever .
`` Yes , she 's somewhere round , '' return Nan , with most unmaternal carelessness .
`` I make you a ring come along , and pull the hair out of Dobbin 's tail .
Do n't you want it ? ''
and Nan present a horse-hair ring in token of friendship , a they have both vow they would never speak to one another again when they last part .
Won by the beauty of the offering , Daisy grow more cordial , and propose retire to the nursery , but Nan say , `` No , I want to see the boy , and the barn , '' and run off , swing her hat by one string till it break , when she leave it to it fate on the grass .
`` Hullo !
Nan ! ''
cry the boy a she bounce in among them with the announcement , `` I 'm go to stay . ''
`` Hooray ! ''
bawl Tommy from the wall on which he be perch , for Nan be a kindred spirit , and he foresee `` lark '' in the future .
`` I can bat ; let me play , '' say Nan , who could turn her hand to any thing , and do not mind hard knock .
`` We ai n't play now , and our side beat without you . ''
`` I can beat you in run , any way , '' return Nan , fall back on her strong point .
`` Can she ? ''
ask Nat of Jack .
`` She run very well for a girl , '' answer Jack , who look down upon Nan with condescend approval .
`` Will you try ? ''
say Nan , long to display her power .
`` It 's too hot , '' and Tommy languish against the wall a if quite exhaust .
`` What 's the matter with Stuffy ? ''
ask Nan , whose quick eye be rove from face to face .
`` Ball hurt his hand ; he howl at every thing , '' answer Jack scornfully .
`` I do n't , I never cry , no matter how I 'm hurt ; it 's babyish , '' say Nan , loftily .
`` Pooh !
I could make you cry in two minute , '' return Stuffy , rouse up .
`` See if you can . ''
`` Go and pick that bunch of nettle , then , '' and Stuffy point to a sturdy specimen of that prickly plant grow by the wall .
Nan instantly `` grasp the nettle , '' pull it up , and hold it with a defiant gesture , in spite of the almost unbearable sting .
`` Good for you , '' cry the boy , quick to acknowledge courage even in one of the weak sex .
More nettled than she be , Stuffy determine to get a cry out of her somehow , and he say tauntingly , `` You be use to poke your hand into every thing , so that be n't fair .
Now go and bump your head real hard against the barn , and see if you do n't howl then . ''
`` Do n't do it , '' say Nat , who hat cruelty .
But Nan be off , and run straight at the barn , she give her head a blow that knock her flat , and sound like a battering-ram .
Dizzy , but undaunted , she stagger up , say stoutly , though her face be draw with pain , `` That hurt , but I do n't cry . ''
`` Do it again , '' say Stuffy angrily ; and Nan would have do it , but Nat hold her ; and Tommy , forget the heat , fly at Stuffy like a little game-cock , roar out , `` Stop it , or I 'll throw you over the barn ! ''
and so shook and hustle poor Stuffy that for a minute he do not know whether he be on his head or his heel .
`` She tell me to , '' be all he could say , when Tommy let him alone .
`` Never mind if she do ; it be awfully mean to hurt a little girl , '' say Demi , reproachfully .
`` Ho !
I do n't mind ; I ai n't a little girl , I 'm old than you and Daisy ; so now , '' cry Nan , ungratefully .
`` Do n't preach , Deacon , you bully Posy every day of your life , '' call out the Commodore , who just then heave in sight .
`` I do n't hurt her ; do I , Daisy ? ''
and Demi turn to his sister , who be `` pooring '' Nan 's tingle hand , and recommend water for the purple lump rapidly develop itself on her forehead .
`` You be the best boy in the world , '' promptly answer Daisy ; add , a truth compel her to do , `` You hurt me sometimes , but you do n't mean to . ''
`` Put away the bat and thing , and mind what you be about , my hearties .
No fighting allow aboard this ship , '' say Emil , who rather lord it over the others .
`` How do you do , Madge Wildfire ? ''
say Mr. Bhaer , a Nan come in with the rest to supper .
`` Give the right hand , little daughter , and mind thy manner , '' he add , a Nan offer him her left .
`` The other hurt me . ''
`` The poor little hand !
what have it be do to get those blister ? ''
he ask , draw it from behind her back , where she have put it with a look which make him think she have be in mischief .
Before Nan could think of any excuse , Daisy burst out with the whole story , during which Stuffy try to hide his face in a bowl of bread and milk .
When the tale be finish , Mr. Bhaer look down the long table towards his wife , and say with a laugh in his eye , `` This rather belong to your side of the house , so I wo n't meddle with it , my dear . ''
Mrs. Jo know what he mean , but she like her little black sheep all the good for her pluck , though she only say in her sober way , `` Do you know why I ask Nan to come here ? ''
`` To plague me , '' mutter Stuffy , with his mouth full .
`` To help make little gentleman of you , and I think you have show that some of you need it . ''
Here Stuffy retire into his bowl again , and do not emerge till Demi make them all laugh by say , in his slow wondering way , `` How can she , when she 's such a tomboy ? ''
`` That 's just it , she need help as much a you , and I expect you set her an example of good manner . ''
`` Is she go to be a little gentleman too ? ''
ask Rob .
`` She 'd like it ; would n't you , Nan ? ''
add Tommy .
`` No , I should n't ; I hate boy ! ''
say Nan fiercely , for her hand still smart , and she begin to think that she might have show her courage in some wise way .
`` I be sorry you hate my boy , because they can be well-mannered , and most agreeable when they choose .
Kindness in look and word and way be true politeness , and any one can have it if they only try to treat other people a they like to be treat themselves . ''
Mrs. Bhaer have address herself to Nan , but the boy nudge one another , and appear to take the hint , for that time at least , and pass the butter ; say `` please , '' and `` thank you , '' `` yes , sir , '' and `` no , ma'am , '' with unusual elegance and respect .
Nan say nothing , but keep herself quiet and refrain from tickle Demi , though strongly tempt to do so , because of the dignified air he put on .
She also appear to have forget her hatred of boy , and play `` I spy '' with them till dark .
Stuffy be observe to offer her frequent suck on his candy-ball during the game , which evidently sweeten her temper , for the last thing she say on go to bed be , `` When my battledore and shuttle-cock come , I 'll let you all play with 'em . ''
Her first remark in the morning be `` Has my box come ? ''
and when tell that it would arrive sometime during the day , she fret and fume , and whip her doll , till Daisy be shock .
She manage to exist , however , till five o'clock , when she disappear , and be not miss till supper-time , because those at home thought she have go to the hill with Tommy and Demi .
`` I saw her go down the avenue alone as hard a she could pelt , '' say Mary Ann , come in with the hasty-pudding , and find every one asking , `` Where be Nan ? ''
`` She have run home , little gypsy ! ''
cried Mrs. Bhaer , look anxious .
`` Perhaps she have go to the station to look after her luggage , '' suggest Franz .
`` That be impossible , she do not know the way , and if she find it , she could never carry the box a mile , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , begin to think that her new idea might be rather a hard one to carry out .
`` It would be like her , '' and Mr. Bhaer catch up his hat to go and find the child , when a shout from Jack , who be at the window , make everyone hurry to the door .
There be Miss Nan , to be sure , tug along a very large band-box tie up in linen bag .
Very hot and dusty and tire do she look , but march stoutly along , and come puff up to the step , where she drop her load with a sigh of relief , and sit down upon it , observe a she cross her tire arm , `` I could n't wait any long , so I go and get it . ''
`` But you do not know the way , '' say Tommy , while the rest stand round enjoy the joke .
`` Oh , I find it , I never get lose . ''
`` It 's a mile , how could you go so far ? ''
`` Well , it be pretty far , but I rest a good deal . ''
`` Was n't that thing very heavy ? ''
`` It 's so round , I could n't get hold of it good , and I think my arm would break right off . ''
`` I do n't see how the station-master let you have it , '' say Tommy .
`` I do n't say anything to him .
He be in the little ticket place , and do n't see me , so I just take it off the platform . ''
`` Run down and tell him it be all right , Franz , or old Dodd will think it be steal , '' say Mr. Bhaer , join in the shout of laughter at Nan 's coolness .
`` I tell you we would send for it if it do not come .
Another time you must wait , for you will get into trouble if you run away .
Promise me this , or I shall not dare to trust you out of my sight , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , wipe the dust off Nan 's little hot face .
`` Well , I wo n't , only papa tell me not to put off do thing , so I do n't . ''
`` That be rather a poser ; I think you have well give her some supper now , and a private lecture by and by , '' say Mr. Bhaer , too much amuse to be angry at the young lady 's exploit .
The boy think it `` great fun , '' and Nan entertain them all supper-time with an account of her adventure ; for a big dog have bark at her , a man have laugh at her , a woman have give her a doughnut , and her hat have fall into the brook when she stop to drink , exhaust with her exertion .
`` I fancy you will have your hand full now , my dear ; Tommy and Nan be quite enough for one woman , '' say Mr. Bhaer , half an hour later .
`` I know it will take some time to tame the child , but she be such a generous , warm-hearted little thing , I should love her even if she be twice a naughty , '' answer Mrs. Jo , point to the merry group , in the middle of which stand Nan , give away her thing right and leave , as lavishly a if the big band-box have no bottom .
It be those good trait that soon make little `` Giddygaddy , '' a they call her , a favorite with every one .
Daisy never complain of be dull again , for Nan invent the most delightful play , and her prank rival Tommy 's , to the amusement of the whole school .
She bury her big doll and forget it for a week , and find it well mildew when she drag it up .
Daisy be in despair , but Nan take it to the painter who a at work about the house , get him to paint it brick red , with star black eye , then she dress it up with feather , and scarlet flannel , and one of Ned 's leaden hatchet ; and in the character of an Indian chief , the late Poppydilla tomahawk all the other doll , and cause the nursery to run red with imaginary gore .
She give away her new shoe to a beggar child , hop to be allow to go barefoot , but find it impossible to combine charity and comfort , and be order to ask leave before dispose of her clothes .
She delight the boy by make a fire-ship out of a shingle with two large sail wet with turpentine , which she light , and then send the little vessel float down the brook at dusk .
She harness the old turkey-cock to a straw wagon , and make him trot round the house at a tremendous pace .
She give her coral necklace for four unhappy kitten , which have be torment by some heartless lad , and tend them for day as gently a a mother , dress their wound with cold cream , feed them with a doll 's spoon , and mourn over them when they die , till she be console by one of Demi 's best turtle .
She make Silas tattoo an anchor on her arm like his , and beg hard to have a blue star on each cheek , but he dare not do it , though she coax and scold till the soft-hearted fellow long to give in .
She ride every animal on the place , from the big horse Andy to the cross pig , from whom she be rescue with difficulty .
Whatever the boy dare her to do she instantly attempt , no matter how dangerous it might be , and they be never tire of test her courage .
Mr. Bhaer suggest that they should see who would study best , and Nan find a much pleasure in use her quick wit and fine memory a her active foot and merry tongue , while the lad have to do their best to keep their place , for Nan show them that girl could do most thing as well a boy , and some thing well .
There be no reward in school , but Mr. Bhaer 's `` Well do ! ''
and Mrs. Bhaer 's good report on the conscience book , teach them to love duty for it own sake , and try to do it faithfully , sure sooner or later the recompense would come .
Little Nan be quick to feel the new atmosphere , to enjoy it , to show that it be what she need ; for this little garden be full of sweet flower , half hide by the weed ; and when kind hand gently begin to cultivate it , all sort of green shoot spring up , promise to blossom beautifully in the warmth of love and care , the best climate for young heart and souls all the world over .
CHAPTER VIII .
PRANKS AND PLAYS As there be no particular plan to this story , except to describe a few scene in the life at Plumfield for the amusement of certain little person , we will gently ramble along in this chapter and tell some of the pastime of Mrs. Jo 's boy .
I beg leave to assure my honored reader that most of the incident be take from real life , and that the odd be the truest ; for no person , no matter how vivid an imagination he may have , can invent anything half so droll a the freak and fancy that originate in the lively brain of little people .
Daisy and Demi be full of these whim , and live in a world of their own , people with lovely or grotesque creature , to whom they give the queer name , and with whom they play the queer game .
One of these nursery invention be an invisible sprite call `` The Naughty Kitty-mouse , '' whom the child have believe in , fear , and serve for a long time .
They seldom spoke of it to any one else , keep their rite as private a possible ; and , a they never try to describe it even to themselves , this be have a vague mysterious charm very agreeable to Demi , who delight in elf and goblin .
A most whimsical and tyrannical imp be the Naughty Kitty-mouse , and Daisy find a fearful pleasure in it service , blindly obey it most absurd demand , which be usually proclaim from the lip of Demi , whose power of invention be great .
Rob and Teddy sometimes join in these ceremony , and consider them excellent fun , although they do not understand half that go on .
One day after school Demi whisper to his sister , with an ominous wag of the head , `` The Kitty-mouse want u this afternoon . ''
`` What for ? ''
ask Daisy , anxiously .
`` A sackerryfice , '' answer Demi , solemnly .
`` There must be a fire behind the big rock at two o'clock , and we must all bring the thing we like best , and burn them ! ''
he add , with an awful emphasis on the last word .
`` Oh , dear !
I love the new paper dolly Aunt Amy paint for me best of any thing ; must I burn them up ? ''
cry Daisy , who never think of deny the unseen tyrant any thing it demand .
`` Every one .
I shall burn my boat , my best scrapbook , and all my soldier , '' say Demi firmly .
`` Well , I will ; but it 's too bad of Kitty-mouse to want our very nice thing , '' sigh Daisy .
`` A sackerryfice mean to give up what you be fond of , so we must , '' explain Demi , to whom the new idea have be suggest by hear Uncle Fritz describe the custom of the Greeks to the big boy who be read about them in school .
`` Is Rob come too , '' ask Daisy .
`` Yes , and he be go to bring his toy village ; it be all make of wood , you know , and will burn nicely .
We 'll have a grand bonfire , and see them blaze up , wo n't we ? ''
This brilliant prospect console Daisy , and she eat her dinner with a row of paper doll before her , a a sort of farewell banquet .
At the appoint hour the sacrificial train set forth , each child bear the treasure demand by the insatiable Kitty-mouse .
Teddy insist on go also , and see that all the others have toy , he tuck a squeak lamb under one arm , and old Annabella under the other , little dream what anguish the latter idol be to give him .
`` Where be you go , my chicken ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , a the flock pass her door .
`` To play by the big rock ; ca n't we ? ''
`` Yes , only do n't do near the pond , and take good care of baby . ''
`` I always do , '' say Daisy , lead forth her charge with a capable air .
`` Now , you must all sit round , and not move till I tell you .
This flat stone be an altar , and I be go to make a fire on it . ''
Demi then proceed to kindle up a small blaze , a he have see the boy do at picnic .
When the flame burn well , he order the company to march round it three time and then stand in a circle .
`` I shall begin , and as fast a my thing be burnt , you must bring yours . ''
With that he solemnly lay on a little paper book full of picture , paste in by himself ; this be follow by a dilapidated boat , and then one by one the unhappy leaden soldier march to death .
Not one falter or hang back , from the splendid red and yellow captain to the small drummer who have lose his leg ; all vanish in the flame and mingle in one common pool of melted lead .
`` Now , Daisy ! ''
call the high priest of Kitty-mouse , when his rich offering have be consume , to the great satisfaction of the child .
`` My dear dolly , how can I let them go ? ''
moan Daisy , hug the entire dozen with a face full of maternal woe .
`` You must , '' command Demi ; and with a farewell kiss to each , Daisy lay her blooming doll upon the coal .
`` Let me keep one , the dear blue thing , she be so sweet , '' beseech the poor little mamma , clutch her last in despair .
`` More !
more ! ''
growl an awful voice , and Demi cry , `` that 's the Kitty-mouse !
she must have every one , quick , or she will scratch u . ''
In go the precious blue belle , flounce , rosy hat , and all , and nothing but a few black flake remain of that bright band .
`` Stand the house and tree round , and let them catch themselves ; it will be like a real fire then , '' say Demi , who like variety even in his `` sackerryfices . ''
Charmed by this suggestion , the child arrange the doomed village , lay a line of coal along the main street , and then sit down to watch the conflagration .
It be somewhat slow to kindle owe to the paint , but at last one ambitious little cottage blaze up , fire a tree of the palm specie , which fell on to the roof of a large family mansion , and in a few minute the whole town be burn merrily .
The wooden population stand and star at the destruction like blockhead , a they be , till they also catch and blaze away without a cry .
It take some time to reduce the town to ash , and the lookers-on enjoy the spectacle immensely , cheer a each house fell , dance like wild Indians when the steeple flame aloft , and actually cast one wretched little churn-shaped lady , who have escape to the suburb , into the very heart of the fire .
The superb success of this last offering excite Teddy to such a degree , that he first throw his lamb into the conflagration , and before it have time even to roast , he plant poor Annabella on the funeral pyre .
Of course she do not like it , and express her anguish and resentment in a way that terrify her infant destroyer .
Being cover with kid , she do not blaze , but do what be bad , she squirm .
First one leg curl up , then the other , in a very awful and lifelike manner ; next she fling her arm over her head a if in great agony ; her head itself turn on her shoulder , her glass eye fell out , and with one final writhe of her whole body , she sink down a blackened mass on the ruin of the town .
This unexpected demonstration startle every one and frighten Teddy half out of his little wit .
He look , then scream and flee toward the house , roar `` Marmar '' at the top of his voice .
Mrs. Bhaer hear the outcry and ran to the rescue , but Teddy could only cling to her and pour out in his broken way something about `` poor Bella hurt , '' `` a dreat fire , '' and `` all the dolly dorn . ''
Fearing some dire mishap , his mother catch him up and hurry to the scene of action , where she find the blind worshipper of Kitty-mouse mourning over the charred remains of the lost darling .
`` What have you be at ?
Tell me all about it , '' say Mrs. Jo , compose herself to listen patiently , for the culprit look so penitent , she forgive them beforehand .
With some reluctance Demi explain their play , and Aunt Jo laugh till the tear run down her cheek , the child be so solemn , and the play be so absurd .
`` I think you be too sensible to play such a silly game a this .
If I have any Kitty-mouse I 'd have a good one who like you to play in safe pleasant way , and not destroy and frighten .
Just see what a ruin you have make ; all Daisy 's pretty doll , Demi 's soldier , and Rob 's new village beside poor Teddy 's pet lamb , and dear old Annabella .
I shall have to write up in the nursery the verse that use to come in the box of toy , `` The child of Holland take pleasure in make , What the child of Boston take pleasure in break . ''
`` Only I shall put Plumfield instead of Boston . ''
`` We never will again , truly , truly ! ''
cry the repentant little sinner , much abash at this reproof .
`` Demi tell u to , '' say Rob .
`` Well , I hear Uncle tell about the Greece people , who have altar and thing , and so I want to be like them , only I have n't any live creature to sackerryfice , so we burn up our toy . ''
`` Dear me , that be something like the bean story , '' say Aunt Jo , laugh again .
`` Tell about it , '' suggest Daisy , to change the subject .
`` Once there be a poor woman who have three or four little child , and she use to lock them up in her room when she go out to work , to keep them safe .
On day when she be go away she say , ` Now , my dear , do n't let baby fall out of window , do n't play with the match , and do n't put bean up your nose . '
Now the child have never dream of do that last thing , but she put it into their head , and the minute she be go , they run and stuff their naughty little nose full of bean , just to see how it felt , and she find them all cry when she come home . ''
`` Did it hurt ? ''
ask Rob , with such intense interest that his mother hastily add a warning sequel , lest a new edition of the bean story should appear in her own family .
`` Very much , a I know , for when my mother tell me this story , I be so silly that I go and try it myself .
I have no bean , so I take some little pebble , and poke several into my nose .
I do not like it at all , and want to take them out again very soon , but one would not come , and I be so ashamed to tell what a goose I be that I go for hour with the stone hurt me very much .
At last the pain get so bad I have to tell , and when my mother could not get it out the doctor come .
Then I be put in a chair and hold tight , Rob , while he use his ugly little pincer till the stone hop out .
Dear me !
how my wretched little nose do ache , and how people laugh at me ! ''
and Mrs. Jo shake her head in a dismal way , a if the memory of her suffering be too much for her .
Rob look deeply impressed and I be glad to say take the warning to heart .
Demi propose that they should bury poor Annabella , and in the interest of the funeral Teddy forget his fright .
Daisy be soon console by another batch of doll from Aunt Amy , and the Naughty Kitty-mouse seem to be appease by the last offering , for she torment them no more .
`` Brops '' be the name of a new and absorbing play , invent by Bangs .
As this interesting animal be not to be find in any Zoological Garden , unless Du Chaillu have recently bring one from the wild of Africa , I will mention a few of it peculiar habit and trait , for the benefit of inquire mind .
The Brop be a winged quadruped , with a human face of a youthful and merry aspect .
When it walk the earth it grunt , when it soar it give a shrill hoot , occasionally it go erect , and talk good English .
Its body be usually cover with a substance much resemble a shawl , sometimes red , sometimes blue , often plaid , and , strange to say , they frequently change skin with one another .
On their head they have a horn very like a stiff brown paper lamp-lighter .
Wings of the same substance flap upon their shoulder when they fly ; this be never very far from the ground , a they usually fall with violence if they attempt any lofty flight .
They browse over the earth , but can sit up and eat like the squirrel .
Their favorite nourishment be the seed-cake ; apple also be freely take , and sometimes raw carrot be nibble when food be scarce .
They live in den , where they have a sort of nest , much like a clothes-basket , in which the little Brops play till their wing be grow .
These singular animal quarrel at time , and it be on these occasion that they burst into human speech , call each other name , cry , scold , and sometimes tear off horn and skin , declare fiercely that they `` wo n't play . ''
The few privileged person who have study them be inclined to think them a remarkable mixture of the monkey , the sphinx , the roc , and the queer creature see by the famous Peter Wilkins .
This game be a great favorite , and the young child beguile many a rainy afternoon flapping or creep about the nursery , act like little bedlamite and be as merry a little grigs .
To be sure , it be rather hard upon clothes , particularly trouser-knees , and jacket-elbows ; but Mrs. Bhaer only say , a she patch and darn , `` We do thing just a foolish , and not half so harmless .
If I could get as much happiness out of it a the little dear do , I 'd be a Brop myself . ''
Nat 's favorite amusement be work in his garden , and sit in the willow-tree with his violin , for that green nest be a fairy world to him , and there he love to perch , make music like a happy bird .
The lad call him `` Old Chirper , '' because he be always hum , whistle , or fiddling , and they often stop a minute in their work or play to listen to the soft tone of the violin , which seem to lead a little orchestra of summer sound .
The bird appear to regard him a one of themselves , and fearlessly sit on the fence or lit among the bough to watch him with their quick bright eye .
The robin in the apple-tree near by evidently consider him a friend , for the father bird hunt insect close beside him , and the little mother brood a confidingly over her blue egg a if the boy be only a new sort of blackbird who cheer her patient watch with his song .
The brown brook babble and sparkle below him , the bee haunt the clover field on either side , friendly face peep at him a they pass , the old house stretch it wide wing hospitably toward him , and with a blessed sense of rest and love and happiness , Nat dream for hour in this nook , unconscious what healthful miracle be be work upon him .
One listener he have who never tire , and to whom he be more than a mere schoolmate .
Poor Billy 's chief delight be to lie beside the brook , watch leaf and bit of foam dance by , listen dreamily to the music in the willow-tree .
He seem to think Nat a sort of angel who sit aloft and sing , for a few baby memory still linger in his mind and seem to grow brighter at these time .
Seeing the interest he take in Nat , Mr. Bhaer beg him to help them lift the cloud from the feeble brain by this gentle spell .
Glad to do any thing to show his gratitude , Nat always smile on Billy when he follow him about , and let him listen undisturbed to the music which seem to speak a language he could understand .
`` Help one another , '' be a favorite Plumfield motto , and Nat learn how much sweetness be add to life by try to live up to it .
Jack Ford 's peculiar pastime be buy and selling ; and he bid fair to follow in the footstep of his uncle , a country merchant , who sell a little of every thing and make money fast .
Jack have see the sugar sand , the molasses water , the butter mixed with lard , and thing of that kind , and labor under the delusion that it be all a proper part of the business .
His stock in trade be of a different sort , but he make as much a he could out of every worm he sell , and always get the best of the bargain when he trade with the boy for string , knife , fish-hooks , or whatever the article might be .
The boy who all have nickname , call him `` Skinflint , '' but Jack do not care as long a the old tobacco-pouch in which he keep his money grow heavy and heavy .
He establish a sort of auction-room , and now and then sell off all the odds and end he have collect , or help the lad exchange thing with one another .
He get bat , ball , hockey-sticks , etc . , cheap , from one set of mate , furbish them up , and let them for a few cent a time to another set , often extend his business beyond the gate of Plumfield in spite of the rule .
Mr. Bhaer put a stop to some of his speculation , and try to give him a good idea of business talent than mere sharpness in overreach his neighbor .
Now and then Jack make a bad bargain , and felt bad about it than about any failure in lesson or conduct , and take his revenge on the next innocent customer who come along .
His account-book be a curiosity ; and his quickness at figure quite remarkable .
Mr. Bhaer praise him for this , and try to make his sense of honesty and honor a quick ; and , by and by , when Jack find that he could not get on without these virtue , he own that his teacher be right .
Cricket and football the boy have of course ; but , after the stir account of these game in the immortal `` Tom Brown at Rugby , '' no feeble female pen may venture to do more than respectfully allude to them .
Emil spend his holiday on the river or the pond , and drill the elder lads for a race with certain town boy , who now and then invade their territory .
The race duly come off , but a it end in a general shipwreck , it be not mention in public ; and the Commodore have serious thought of retire to a desert island , so disgusted be he with his kind for a time .
No desert island be convenient , he be force to remain among his friend , and find consolation in build a boat-house .
The little girl indulge in the usual play of their age , improve upon them somewhat a their lively fancy suggest .
The chief and most absorbing play be call `` Mrs. Shakespeare Smith ; '' the name be provide by Aunt Jo , but the trial of the poor lady be quite original .
Daisy be Mrs. S. S. , and Nan by turn her daughter or a neighbor , Mrs. Giddygaddy .
No pen can describe the adventure of these lady , for in one short afternoon their family be the scene of birth , marriage , death , flood , earthquake , tea-parties , and balloon ascension .
Millions of mile do these energetic woman travel , dress in hat and habit never see before by mortal eye , perch on the bed , drive the post like mettlesome steed , and bounce up and down till their head spun .
Fits and fire be the pet affliction , with a general massacre now and then by way of change .
Nan be never tire of invent fresh combination , and Daisy follow her leader with blind admiration .
Poor Teddy be a frequent victim , and be often rescue from real danger , for the excited lady be apt to forget that he be not of the same stuff their longsuffering doll .
Once he be shut into the closet for a dungeon , and forget by the girl , who run off to some out-of-door game .
Another time he be half drown in the bath-tub , play be a `` cunning little whale . ''
And , bad of all , he be cut down just in time after be hang up for a robber .
But the institution most patronize by all be the Club .
It have no other name , and it need none , be the only one in the neighborhood .
The elder lads get it up , and the young be occasionally admit if they behave well .
Tommy and Demi be honorary member , but be always oblige to retire unpleasantly early , owe to circumstance over which they have no control .
The proceeding of this club be somewhat peculiar , for it meet at all sort of place and hour , have all manner of queer ceremony and amusement , and now and then be break up tempestuously , only to be re-established , however , on a firm basis .
Rainy even the member meet in the schoolroom , and pass the time in game : chess , morris , backgammon , fence match , recitation , debate , or dramatic performance of a darkly tragical nature .
In summer the barn be the rendezvous , and what go on there no uninitiated mortal know .
On sultry even the Club adjourn to the brook for aquatic exercise , and the member sit about in airy attire , frog-like and cool .
On such occasion the speech be unusually eloquent , quite flow , a one might say ; and if any orator 's remark displease the audience , cold water be throw upon him till his ardor be effectually quench .
Franz be president , and maintain order admirably , consider the unruly nature of the member .
Mr. Bhaer never interfere with their affair , and be reward for this wise forbearance by be invite now and then to behold the mystery unveil , which he appear to enjoy much .
When Nan come she wish to join the Club , and cause great excitement and division among the gentleman by present endless petition , both write and speak , disturb their solemnity by insult them through the key-hole , perform vigorous solo on the door , and write up derisive remark on wall and fence , for she belong to the `` Irrepressibles . ''
Finding these appeal in vain , the girl , by the advice of Mrs. Jo , get up an institution of their own , which they call the Cosy Club .
To this they magnanimously invite the gentleman whose youth exclude them from the other one , and entertain these favored being so well with little supper , new game devise by Nan , and other please festivity , that , one by one , the elder boy confess a desire to partake of these more elegant enjoyment , and , after much consultation , finally decide to propose an interchange of civility .
The member of the Cosy Club be invite to adorn the rival establishment on certain evening , and to the surprise of the gentleman their presence be not find to be a restraint upon the conversation or amusement of the regular frequenter ; which could not be say of all Clubs , I fancy .
The lady respond handsomely and hospitably to these overture of peace , and both institution flourish long and happily .
CHAPTER IX .
DAISY 'S BALL `` Mrs. Shakespeare Smith would like to have Mr. John Brooke , Mr. Thomas Bangs , and Mr. Nathaniel Blake to come to her ball at three o'clock today .
`` P.S . Nat must bring his fiddle , so we can dance , and all the boy must be good , or they can not have any of the nice thing we have cook . ''
This elegant invitation would , I fear , have be decline , but for the hint give in the last line of the postscript .
`` They have be cook lot of goody , I smelt 'em .
Let 's go , '' say Tommy .
`` We need n't stay after the feast , you know , '' add Demi .
`` I never go to a ball .
What do you have to do ? ''
ask Nat .
`` Oh , we just play be men , and sit round stiff and stupid like grown-up folk , and dance to please the girl .
Then we eat up everything , and come away as soon a we can . ''
`` I think I could do that , '' say Nat , after consider Tommy 's description for a minute .
`` I 'll write and say we 'll come ; '' and Demi despatch the follow gentlemanly reply , `` We will all come .
Please have lot to eat .
J . B. Esquire . ''
Great be the anxiety of the lady about their first ball , because if every thing go well they intend to give a dinner-party to the choose few .
`` Aunt Jo like to have the boy play with u , if they be not rough ; so we must make them like our ball , then they will do them good , '' say Daisy , with her maternal air , a she set the table and survey the store of refreshment with an anxious eye .
`` Demi and Nat will be good , but Tommy will do something bad , I know he will , '' reply Nan , shake her head over the little cake-basket which she be arrange .
`` Then I shall send him right home , '' say Daisy , with decision .
`` People do n't do so at party , it be n't proper . ''
`` I shall never ask him any more . ''
`` That would do .
He 'd be sorry not to come to the dinner-ball , would n't he ? ''
`` I guess he would !
we 'll have the splendid thing ever see , wo n't we ?
Real soup with a ladle and a tureem -LSB- she mean tureen -RSB- and a little bird for turkey , and gravy , and all kind of nice vegytubbles . ''
Daisy never could say vegetable properly , and have give up try .
`` It be ` most three , and we ought to dress , '' say Nan , who have arrange a fine costume for the occasion , and be anxious to wear it .
`` I be the mother , so I sha n't dress up much , '' say Daisy , put on a night-cap ornament with a red bow , one of her aunt 's long skirt , and a shawl ; a pair of spectacle and large pocket handkerchief complete her toilette , make a plump , rosy little matron of her .
Nan have a wreath of artificial flower , a pair of old pink slipper , a yellow scarf , a green muslin skirt , and a fan make of feather from the duster ; also , a a last touch of elegance , a smelling-bottle without any smell in it .
`` I be the daughter , so I rig up a good deal , and I must sing and dance , and talk more than you do .
The mother only get the tea and be proper , you know . ''
A sudden very loud knock cause Miss Smith to fly into a chair , and fan herself violently , while her mamma sit bolt upright on the sofa , and try to look quite calm and `` proper . ''
Little Bess , who be on a visit , act the part of maid , and open the door , say with a smile , `` Wart in , gemplemun ; it 's all weady . ''
In honor of the occasion , the boy wore high paper collar , tall black hat , and glove of every color and material , for they be an afterthought , and not a boy among them have a perfect pair .
`` Good day , mum , '' say Demi , in a deep voice , which be so hard to keep up that his remark have to be extremely brief .
Every one shook hand and then sit down , look so funny , yet so sober , that the gentleman forget their manner , and roll in their chair with laughter .
`` Oh , do n't ! ''
cried Mrs. Smith , much distress .
`` You ca n't ever come again if you act so , '' add Miss Smith , rap Mr. Bangs with her bottle because he laugh loud .
`` I ca n't help it , you look so like fury , '' gasp Mr. Bangs , with most uncourteous candor .
`` So do you , but I should n't be so rude a to say so .
He sha n't come to the dinner-ball , shall he , Daisy ? ''
cry Nan , indignantly .
`` I think we have good dance now .
Did you bring your fiddle , sir ? ''
ask Mrs. Smith , try to preserve her polite composure .
`` It be outside the door , '' and Nat go to get it .
`` Better have tea first , '' propose the unabashed Tommy , wink openly at Demi to remind him that the sooner the refreshment be secure , the sooner they could escape .
`` No , we never have supper first ; and if you do n't dance well you wo n't have any supper at all , not one bit , sir , '' say Mrs. Smith , so sternly that her wild guest saw she be not to be trifle with , and grow overwhelmingly civil all at once .
`` I will take Mr. Bangs and teach him the polka , for he do not know it fit to be see , '' add the hostess , with a reproachful look that sober Tommy at once .
Nat strike up , and the ball open with two couple , who go conscientiously through a somewhat varied dance .
The lady do well , because they like it , but the gentleman exert themselves from more selfish motif , for each felt that he must earn his supper , and labor manfully toward that end .
When every one be out of breath they be allow to rest ; and , indeed , poor Mrs. Smith need it , for her long dress have trip her up many time .
The little maid pass round molasses and water in such small cup that one guest actually empty nine .
I refrain from mention his name , because this mild beverage affect him so much that he put cup and all into his mouth at the ninth round , and choke himself publicly .
`` You must ask Nan to play and sing now , '' say Daisy to her brother , who sit look very much like an owl , a he gravely regard the festive scene between his high collar .
`` Give u a song , mum , '' say the obedient guest , secretly wonder where the piano be .
Miss Smith sail up to an old secretary which stand in the room , throw back the lid of the writing-desk , and sit down before it , accompany herself with a vigor which make the old desk rattle a she sing that new and lovely song , begin `` Gaily the troubadour Touched his guitar , As he be hasten Home from the war . ''
The gentleman applaud so enthusiastically that she give them `` Bounding Billows , '' `` Little Bo-Peep , '' and other gem of song , till they be oblige to hint that they have have enough .
Grateful for the praise bestow upon her daughter , Mrs. Smith graciously announce , `` Now we will have tea .
Sit down carefully , and do n't grab . ''
It be beautiful to see the air of pride with which the good lady do the honor of her table , and the calmness with which she bore the little mishap that occur .
The best pie fly wildly on the floor when she try to cut it with a very dull knife ; the bread and butter vanish with a rapidity calculate to dismay a housekeeper 's soul ; and , bad of all , the custard be so soft that they have to be drink up , instead of be eat elegantly with the new tin spoon .
I grieve to state that Miss Smith squabble with the maid for the best jumble , which cause Bess to toss the whole dish into the air , and burst out cry amid a rain of fall cake .
She be comfort by a seat at the table , and the sugar-bowl to empty ; but during this flurry a large plate of patty be mysteriously lose , and could not be find .
They be the chief ornament of the feast , and Mrs. Smith be indignant at the loss , for she have make them herself , and they be beautiful to behold .
I put it to any lady if it be not hard to have one dozen delicious patty -LRB- make of flour , salt , and water , with a large raisin in the middle of each , and much sugar over the whole -RRB- sweep away at one fell swoop ?
`` You hide them , Tommy ; I know you do ! ''
cry the outraged hostess , threaten her suspected guest with the milk-pot .
`` I do n't ! ''
`` You do ! ''
`` It be n't proper to contradict , '' say Nan , who be hastily eat up the jelly during the fray .
`` Give them back , Demi , '' say Tommy .
`` That 's a fib , you 've get them in your own pocket , '' bawl Demi , rouse by the false accusation .
`` Let 's take 'em away from him .
It 's too bad to make Daisy cry , '' suggest Nat , who find his first ball more exciting than he expect .
Daisy be already weep , Bess like a devote servant mingle her tear with those of her mistress , and Nan denounce the entire race of boy a `` plaguey thing . ''
Meanwhile the battle rag among the gentleman , for , when the two defender of innocence fell upon the foe , that harden youth intrench himself behind a table and pelt them with the steal tart , which be very effective missile , be nearly as hard a bullet .
While his ammunition hold out the besieged prosper , but the moment the last patty fly over the parapet , the villain be seize , drag howl from the room , and cast upon the hall floor in an ignominious heap .
The conqueror then return flush with victory , and while Demi console poor Mrs. Smith , Nat and Nan collect the scattered tart , replace each raisin in it proper bed , and rearrange the dish so that it really look almost as well a ever .
But their glory have depart , for the sugar be go , and no one care to eat them after the insult offer to them .
`` I guess we have well go , '' say Demi , suddenly , a Aunt Jo 's voice be hear on the stair .
`` P ` r ` aps we have , '' and Nat hastily drop a stray jumble that he have just pick up .
But Mrs. Jo be among them before the retreat be accomplish , and into her sympathetic ear the young lady pour the story of their woe .
`` No more ball for these boy till they have atone for this bad behavior by do something kind to you , '' say Mrs. Jo , shake her head at the three culprit .
`` We be only in fun , '' begin Demi .
`` I do n't like fun that make other people unhappy .
I be disappoint in you , Demi , for I hop you would never learn to tease Daisy .
Such a kind little sister a she be to you . ''
`` Boys always tease their sister ; Tom say so , '' mutter Demi .
`` I do n't intend that my boy shall , and I must send Daisy home if you can not play happily together , '' say Aunt Jo , soberly .
At this awful threat , Demi sidle up to his sister , and Daisy hastily dry her tear , for to be separate be the bad misfortune that could happen to the twin .
`` Nat be bad , too , and Tommy be baddest of all , '' observe Nan , fear that two of the sinner would not get their fair share of punishment .
`` I be sorry , '' say Nat , much ashamed .
`` I ai n't ! ''
bawl Tommy through the keyhole , where he be listen with all his might .
Mrs. Jo want very much to laugh , but keep her countenance , and say impressively , a she point to the door , `` You can go , boy , but remember , you be not to speak to or play with the little girl till I give you leave .
You do n't deserve the pleasure , so I forbid it . ''
The ill-mannered young gentleman hastily retire , to be receive outside with derision and scorn by the unrepentant Bangs , who would not associate with them for at least fifteen minute .
Daisy be soon console for the failure of her ball , but lament the edict that part her from her brother , and mourn over his short-comings in her tender little heart .
Nan rather enjoy the trouble , and go about turn up her pug nose at the three , especially Tommy , who pretend not to care , and loudly proclaim his satisfaction at be rid of those `` stupid girl . ''
But in his secret soul he soon repent of the rash act that cause this banishment from the society he love , and every hour of separation teach him the value of the `` stupid girl . ''
The others give in very soon , and long to be friend , for now there be no Daisy to pet and cook for them ; no Nan to amuse and doctor them ; and , bad of all , no Mrs. Jo to make home life pleasant and life easy for them .
To their great affliction , Mrs. Jo seem to consider herself one of the offended girl , for she hardly speak to the outcast , look a if she do not see them when she pass , and be always too busy now to attend to their request .
This sudden and entire exile from favor cast a gloom over their soul , for when Mother Bhaer desert them , their sun have set at noon-day , a it be , and they have no refuge leave .
This unnatural state of thing actually last for three day , then they could bear it no longer , and fear that the eclipse might become total , go to Mr. Bhaer for help and counsel .
It be my private opinion that he have receive instruction how to behave if the case should be lay before him .
But no one suspect it , and he give the afflicted boys some advice , which they gratefully accept and carry out in the following manner : Secluding themselves in the garret , they devote several play-hours to the manufacture of some mysterious machine , which take so much paste that Asia grumble , and the little girl wonder mightily .
Nan nearly get her inquisitive nose pinch in the door , try to see what be go on , and Daisy sit about , openly lament that they could not all play nicely together , and not have any dreadful secret .
Wednesday afternoon be fine , and after a good deal of consultation about wind and weather , Nat and Tommy go off , bear an immense flat parcel hide under many newspaper .
Nan nearly die with suppressed curiosity , Daisy nearly cry with vexation , and both quite tremble with interest when Demi march into Mrs. Bhaer 's room , hat in hand , and say , in the politest tone possible to a mortal boy of his year , `` Please , Aunt Jo , would you and the girl come out to a surprise party we have make for you ?
Do it 's a very nice one . ''
`` Thank you , we will come with pleasure ; only , I must take Teddy with me , '' reply Mrs. Bhaer , with a smile that cheer Demi like sunshine after rain .
`` We 'd like to have him .
The little wagon be all ready for the girl ; you wo n't mind walk just up to Pennyroyal Hill , will you Aunty ? ''
`` I should like it exceedingly ; but be you quite sure I shall not be in the way ? ''
`` Oh , no , indeed !
we want you very much ; and the party will be spoil if you do n't come , '' cry Demi , with great earnestness .
`` Thank you kindly , sir ; '' and Aunt Jo make him a grand curtsey , for she like frolic as well a any of them .
`` Now , young lady , we must not keep them wait ; on with the hat , and let u be off at once .
I 'm all impatience to know what the surprise be . ''
As Mrs. Bhaer speak every one bustle about , and in five minute the three little girl and Teddy be pack into the `` clothes-basket , '' a they call the wicker wagon which Toby draw .
Demi walk at the head of the procession , and Mrs. Jo bring up the rear , escort by Kit .
It be a most imposing party , I assure you , for Toby have a red feather-duster in his head , two remarkable flag wave over the carriage , Kit have a blue bow on his neck , which nearly drive him wild , Demi wear a nosegay of dandelion in his buttonhole , and Mrs. Jo carry the queer Japanese umbrella in honor of the occasion .
The girl have little flutter of excitement all the way ; and Teddy be so charmed with the drive that he keep drop his hat overboard , and when it be take from him he prepare to tumble out himself , evidently feel that it behoove him to do something for the amusement of the party .
When they come to the hill `` nothing be to be see but the grass blowing in the wind , '' a the fairy book say , and the child look disappointed .
But Demi say , in his most impressive manner , `` Now , you all get out and stand still , and the surprise party with come in ; '' with which remark he retire behind a rock , over which head have be bob at interval for the last half-hour .
A short pause of intense suspense , and then Nat , Demi , and Tommy march forth , each bear a new kite , which they present to the three young lady .
Shrieks of delight arose , but be silence by the boy , who say , with face brimful of merriment , `` That be n't all the surprise ; '' and , run behind the rock , again emerge bear a fourth kite of superb size , on which be print , in bright yellow letter , `` For Mother Bhaer . ''
`` We think you 'd like one , too , because you be angry with u , and take the girl ' part , '' cry all three , shake with laughter , for this part of the affair evidently be a surprise to Mrs. Jo .
She clap her hand , and join in the laugh , look thoroughly tickle at the joke .
`` Now , boy , that be regularly splendid !
Who do think of it ? ''
she ask , receive the monster kite with as much pleasure a the little girl do theirs .
`` Uncle Fritz propose it when we plan to make the others ; he say you 'd like it , so we make a bouncer , '' answer Demi , beam with satisfaction at the success of the plot .
`` Uncle Fritz know what I like .
Yes , these be magnificent kite , and we be wish we have some the other day when you be fly yours , be n't we , girl ? ''
`` That 's why we make them for you , '' cry Tommy , stand on his head a the most appropriate way of express his emotion .
`` Let u fly them , '' say energetic Nan .
`` I do n't know how , '' begin Daisy .
`` We 'll show you , we want to ! ''
cry all the boy in a burst of devotion , a Demi take Daisy 's , Tommy Nan 's , and Nat , with difficulty , persuade Bess to let go her little blue one .
`` Aunty , if you will wait a minute , we 'll pitch yours for you , '' say Demi , feel that Mrs. Bhaer 's favor must not be lose again by any neglect of theirs .
`` Bless your button , dear , I know all about it ; and here be a boy who will toss up for me , '' add Mrs. Jo , a the professor peep over the rock with a face full of fun .
He come out at once , toss up the big kite , and Mrs. Jo run off with it in fine style , while the child stand and enjoy the spectacle .
One by one all the kite go up , and float far overhead like gay bird , balance themselves on the fresh breeze that blow steadily over the hill .
Such a merry time a they have !
run and shout , send up the kite or pull them down , watch their antic in the air , and feel them tug at the string like live creature try to escape .
Nan be quite wild with the fun , Daisy think the new play nearly as interesting a doll , and little Bess be so fond of her `` boo tite , '' that she would only let it go on very short flight , prefer to hold it in her lap and look at the remarkable picture paint on it by Tommy 's dash brush .
Mrs. Jo enjoy hers immensely , and it act a if it know who own it , for it come tumble down head first when least expect , catch on tree , nearly pitch into the river , and finally dart away to such a height that it look a mere speck among the cloud .
By and by every one get tire , and fasten the kite-strings to tree and fence , all sit down to rest , except Mr. Bhaer , who go off to look at the cow , with Teddy on his shoulder .
`` Did you ever have such a good time a this before ? ''
ask Nat , a they lay about on the grass , nibble pennyroyal like a flock of sheep .
`` Not since I last fly a kite , year ago , when I be a girl , '' answer Mrs. Jo .
`` I 'd like to have know you when you be a girl , you must have be so jolly , '' say Nat .
`` I be a naughty little girl , I be sorry to say . ''
`` I like naughty little girl , '' observe Tommy , look at Nan , who make a frightful grimace at him in return for the compliment .
`` Why do n't I remember you then , Aunty ?
Was I too young ? ''
ask Demi .
`` Rather , dear . ''
`` I suppose my memory have n't come then .
Grandpa say that different part of the mind unfold a we grow up , and the memory part of my mind have n't unfold when you be little , so I ca n't remember how you look , '' explain Demi .
`` Now , little Socrates , you have good keep that question for grandpa , it be beyond me , '' say Aunt Jo , put on the extinguisher .
`` Well , I will , he know about those thing , and you do n't , '' return Demi , feel that on the whole kite be well adapt to the comprehension of the present company .
`` Tell about the last time you fly a kite , '' say Nat , for Mrs. Jo have laugh a she speak of it , and he think it might be interesting .
`` Oh , it be only rather funny , for I be a great girl of fifteen , and be ashamed to be see at such a play .
So Uncle Teddy and I privately make our kite , and steal away to fly them .
We have a capital time , and be rest a we be now , when suddenly we hear voice , and saw a party of young lady and gentleman come back from a picnic .
Teddy do not mind , though he be rather a large boy to be play with a kite , but I be in a great flurry , for I know I should be sadly laugh at , and never hear the last of it , because my wild way amuse the neighbor as much a Nan 's do u . ''
` What shall I do ? '
I whisper to Teddy , a the voice draw nearer and nearer . ''
` I 'll show you , ' he say , and whip out his knife he cut the string .
Away fly the kite , and when the people come up we be pick flower as properly a you please .
They never suspect u , and we have a grand laugh over our narrow escape . ''
`` Were the kite lose , Aunty ? ''
ask Daisy .
`` Quite lose , but I do not care , for I make up my mind that it would be best to wait till I be an old lady before I play with kite again ; and you see I have wait , '' say Mrs. Jo , begin to pull in the big kite , for it be get late .
`` Must we go now ? ''
`` I must , or you wo n't have any supper ; and that sort of surprise party would not suit you , I think , my chicken . ''
`` Has n't our party be a nice one ? ''
ask Tommy , complacently .
`` Splendid ! ''
answer every one .
`` Do you know why ?
It be because your guest have behave themselves , and try to make everything go well .
You understand what I mean , do n't you ? ''
`` Yes 'm , '' be all the boy say , but they steal a shamefaced look at one another , a they meekly shoulder their kite and walk home , thinking of another party where the guest have not behave themselves , and thing have go badly on account of it .
CHAPTER X . HOME AGAIN July have come , and hay begin ; the little garden be do finely and the long summer day be full of pleasant hour .
The house stand open from morning till night , and the lad live out of door , except at school time .
The lesson be short , and there be many holiday , for the Bhaers believe in cultivate healthy body by much exercise , and our short summer be best use in out-of-door work .
Such a rosy , sunburnt , hearty set a the boy become ; such appetite a they have ; such sturdy arm and leg , a outgrew jacket and trouser ; such laughing and race all over the place ; such antic in house and barn ; such adventure in the tramp over hill and dale ; and such satisfaction in the heart of the worthy Bhaers , a they saw their flock prospering in mind and body , I can not begin to describe .
Only one thing be need to make them quite happy , and it come when they least expect it .
One balmy night when the little lad be in bed , the elder one bath down at the brook , and Mrs. Bhaer undress Teddy in her parlor , he suddenly cry out , `` Oh , my Danny ! ''
and point to the window , where the moon shone brightly .
`` No , lovey , he be not there , it be the pretty moon , '' say his mother .
`` No , no , Danny at a window ; Teddy saw him , '' persist baby , much excite .
`` It might have be , '' and Mrs. Bhaer hurry to the window , hop it would prove true .
But the face be go , and nowhere appear any sign of a mortal boy ; she call his name , run to the front door with Teddy in his little shirt , and make him call too , think the baby voice might have more effect than her own .
No one answer , nothing appear , and they go back much disappoint .
Teddy would not be satisfy with the moon , and after he be in his crib keep pop up his head to ask if Danny be not `` tummin ' soon . ''
By and by he fell asleep , the lad troop up to bed , the house grow still , and nothing but the chirp of the cricket break the soft silence of the summer night .
Mrs. Bhaer sit sewing , for the big basket be always pile with sock , full of portentous hole , and thinking of the lose boy .
She have decide that baby have be mistake , and do not even disturb Mr. Bhaer by tell him of the child 's fancy , for the poor man get little time to himself till the boy be abed , and he be busy write letter .
It be past ten when she rise to shut up the house .
As she pause a minute to enjoy the lovely scene from the step , something white catch her eye on one of the hay-cocks scatter over the lawn .
The child have be play there all the afternoon , and , fancy that Nan have leave her hat a usual , Mrs. Bhaer go out to get it .
But a she approach , she saw that it be neither hat nor handkerchief , but a shirt sleeve with a brown hand stick out of it .
She hurry round the hay-cock , and there lay Dan , fast asleep .
Ragged , dirty , thin , and worn-out he look ; one foot be bare , the other tie up in the old gingham jacket which he have take from his own back to use a a clumsy bandage for some hurt .
He seem to have hide himself behind the hay-cock , but in his sleep have throw out the arm that have betray him .
He sigh and mutter a if his dream disturb him , and once when he move , he groan a if in pain , but still sleep on quite spent with weariness .
`` He must not lie here , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , and stoop over him she gently call his name .
He open his eye and look at her , a if she be a part of his dream , for he smile and say drowsily , `` Mother Bhaer , I 've come home . ''
The look , the word , touch her very much , and she put her hand under his head to lift him up , say in her cordial way , `` I think you would , and I 'm so glad to see you , Dan . ''
He seem to wake thoroughly then , and start up look about him a if he suddenly remember where he be , and doubt even that kind welcome .
His face change , and he say in his old rough way , `` I be go off in the morning .
I only stop to peek in , a I go by . ''
`` But why not come in , Dan ?
Did n't you hear u call you ?
Teddy saw , and cry for you . ''
`` Did n't suppose you 'd let me in , '' he say , fumble with a little bundle which he have take up a if go immediately .
`` Try and see , '' be all Mrs. Bhaer answer , hold out her hand and pointing to the door , where the light shone hospitably .
With a long breath , a if a load be off his mind , Dan take up a stout stick , and begin to limp towards the house , but stop suddenly , to say inquiringly , `` Mr. Bhaer wo n't like it .
I run away from Page . ''
`` He know it , and be sorry , but it will make no difference .
Are you lame ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , a he limp on again .
`` Getting over a wall a stone fell on my foot and smash it .
I do n't mind , '' and he do his best to hide the pain each step cost him .
Mrs. Bhaer help him into her own room , and , once there , he drop into a chair , and lay his head back , white and faint with weariness and suffering .
`` My poor Dan !
drink this , and then eat a little ; you be at home now , and Mother Bhaer will take good care of you . ''
He only look up at her with eyes full of gratitude , a he drink the wine she hold to his lip , and then begin slowly to eat the food she bring him .
Each mouthful seem to put heart into him , and presently he begin to talk a if anxious to have her know all about him .
`` Where have you be , Dan ? ''
she ask , begin to get out some bandage .
`` I run off more 'n a month ago .
Page be good enough , but too strict .
I do n't like it , so I cut away down the river with a man who be go in his boat .
That 's why they could n't tell where I 'd go .
When I leave the man , I work for a couple of week with a farmer , but I thrash his boy , and then the old man thrash me , and I run off again and walk here . ''
`` All the way ? ''
`` Yes , the man do n't pay me , and I would n't ask for it .
Took it out in beat the boy , '' and Dan laugh , yet look ashamed , a he glance at his ragged clothes and dirty hand .
`` How do you live ?
It be a long , long tramp for a boy like you . ''
`` Oh , I get on well enough , till I hurt my foot .
Folks give me thing to eat , and I sleep in barn and tramp by day .
I get lose try to make a short cut , or I 'd have be here sooner . ''
`` But if you do not mean to come in and stay with u , what be you go to do ? ''
`` I think I 'd like to see Teddy again , and you ; and then I be go back to my old work in the city , only I be so tired I go to sleep on the hay .
I 'd have be go in the morning , if you have n't find me . ''
`` Are you sorry I do ? ''
and Mrs. Jo look at him with a half merry , half reproachful look , a she kneel down to look at his wounded foot .
The color come up into Dan 's face , and he keep his eye fix on his plate , a he say very low , `` No , ma'am , I 'm glad , I want to stay , but I be afraid you -- '' He do not finish , for Mrs. Bhaer interrupt him by an exclamation of pity , a she saw his foot , for it be seriously hurt .
`` When do you do it ? ''
`` Three day ago . ''
`` And you have walk on it in this state ? ''
`` I have a stick , and I wash it at every brook I come to , and one woman give me a rag to put on it . ''
`` Mr. Bhaer must see and dress it at once , '' and Mrs. Jo hasten into the next room , leave the door ajar behind her , so that Dan hear all that pass .
`` Fritz , the boy have come back . ''
`` Who ?
Dan ? ''
`` Yes , Teddy saw him at the window , and he call to him , but he go away and hide behind the hay-cocks on the lawn .
I find him there just now fast asleep , and half dead with weariness and pain .
He run away from Page a month ago , and have be make his way to u ever since .
He pretend that he do not mean to let u see him , but go on to the city , and his old work , after a look at u .
It be evident , however , that the hope of be take in have lead him here through every thing , and there he be wait to know if you will forgive and take him back . ''
`` Did he say so ? ''
`` His eye do , and when I wake him , he say , like a lost child , ` Mother Bhaer , I 've come home . '
I have n't the heart to scold him , and just take him in like a poor little black sheep come back to the fold .
I may keep him , Fritz ? ''
`` Of course you may !
This prove to me that we have a hold on the boy 's heart , and I would no more send him away now than I would my own Rob . ''
Dan hear a soft little sound , a if Mrs. Jo thank her husband without word , and , in the instant 's silence that follow , two great tear that have slowly gather in the boy 's eye brim over and roll down his dusty cheek .
No one saw them , for he brush them hastily away ; but in that little pause I think Dan 's old distrust for these good people vanish for ever , the soft spot in his heart be touch , and he felt an impetuous desire to prove himself worthy of the love and pity that be so patient and forgiving .
He say nothing , he only wish the wish with all his might , resolve to try in his blind boyish way , and seal his resolution with the tear which neither pain , fatigue , nor loneliness could wring from him .
`` Come and see his foot .
I be afraid it be badly hurt , for he have keep on three day through heat and dust , with nothing but water and an old jacket to bind it up with .
I tell you , Fritz , that boy be a brave lad , and will make a fine man yet . ''
`` I hope so , for your sake , enthusiastic woman , your faith deserve success .
Now , I will go and see your little Spartan .
Where be he ? ''
`` In my room ; but , dear , you 'll be very kind to him , no matter how gruff he seem .
I be sure that be the way to conquer him .
He wo n't bear sternness nor much restraint , but a soft word and infinite patience will lead him a it use to lead me . ''
`` As if you ever like this little rascal ! ''
cried Mr. Bhaer , laughing , yet half angry at the idea .
`` I be in spirit , though I show it in a different way .
I seem to know by instinct how he feel , to understand what will win and touch him , and to sympathize with his temptation and fault .
I be glad I do , for it will help me to help him ; and if I can make a good man of this wild boy , it will be the best work of my life . ''
`` God bless the work , and help the worker ! ''
Mr. Bhaer speak now as earnestly a she have do , and both come in together to find Dan 's head down upon his arm , a if he be quite overcome by sleep .
But he look up quickly , and try to rise a Mr. Bhaer say pleasantly , `` So you like Plumfield good than Page 's farm .
Well , let u see if we can get on more comfortably this time than we do before . ''
`` Thanky , sir , '' say Dan , try not to be gruff , and find it easy than he expect .
`` Now , the foot !
Ach !
this be not well .
We must have Dr. Firth to-morrow .
Warm water , Jo , and old linen . ''
Mr. Bhaer bath and bind up the wounded foot , while Mrs. Jo prepare the only empty bed in the house .
It be in the little guest-chamber lead from the parlor , and often use when the lad be poorly , for it save Mrs. Jo from run up and down , and the invalid could see what be go on .
When it be ready , Mr. Bhaer take the boy in his arm , and carry him in , help him undress , lay him on the little white bed , and leave him with another hand-shake , and a fatherly `` Good-night , my son . ''
Dan drop asleep at once , and sleep heavily for several hour ; then his foot begin to throb and ache , and he awake to toss about uneasily , try not to groan l any one should hear him , for he be a brave lad , and do bear pain like `` a little Spartan , '' a Mr. Bhaer call him .
Mrs. Jo have a way of flit about the house at night , to shut the window if the wind grow chilly , to draw mosquito curtain over Teddy , or look after Tommy , who occasionally walk in his sleep .
The least noise wake her , and a she often hear imaginary robber , cat , and conflagration , the door stand open all about , so her quick ear catch the sound of Dan 's little moan , and she be up in a minute .
He be just give his hot pillow a despairing thump when a light come glimmer through the hall , and Mrs. Jo crept in , look like a droll ghost , with her hair in a great knob on the top of her head , and a long gray dressing-gown trailing behind her .
`` Are you in pain , Dan ? ''
`` It 's pretty bad ; but I do n't mean to wake you . ''
`` I 'm a sort of owl , always fly about at night .
Yes , your foot be like fire ; the bandage must be wet again , '' and away flap the maternal owl for more cooling stuff , and a great mug of ice water .
`` Oh , that 's so nice ! ''
sigh Dan , the wet bandage go on again , and a long draught of water cool his thirsty throat .
`` There , now , sleep your best , and do n't be frighten if you see me again , for I 'll slip down by and by , and give you another sprinkle . ''
As she speak , Mrs. Jo stoop to turn the pillow and smooth the bed-clothes , when , to her great surprise , Dan put his arm around her neck , draw her face down to his , and kiss her , with a broken `` Thank you , ma'am , '' which say more than the most eloquent speech could have do ; for the hasty kiss , the muttered word , meant , `` I 'm sorry , I will try . ''
She understand it , accept the unspoken confession , and do not spoil it by any token of surprise .
She only remember that he have no mother , kiss the brown cheek half hide on the pillow , a if ashamed of the little touch of tenderness , and leave him , say , what he long remember , `` You be my boy now , and if you choose you can make me proud and glad to say so . ''
Once again , just at dawn , she steal down to find him so fast asleep that he do not wake , and show no sign of consciousness a she wet his foot , except that the line of pain smooth themselves away , and leave his face quite peaceful .
The day be Sunday , and the house so still that he never wake till near noon , and , look round him , saw an eager little face peer in at the door .
He hold out his arm , and Teddy tore across the room to cast himself bodily upon the bed , shouting , `` My Danny 's tum ! ''
a he hug and wriggle with delight .
Mrs. Bhaer appear next , bring breakfast , and never seem to see how shamefaced Dan look at the memory of the little scene last night .
Teddy insist on give him his `` betfus , '' and feed him like a baby , which , a he be not very hungry , Dan enjoy very much .
Then come the doctor , and the poor Spartan have a bad time of it , for some of the little bone in his foot be injure , and put them to right be such a painful job , that Dan 's lip be white , and great drop stand on his forehead , though he never cry out , and only hold Mrs. Jo 's hand so tight that it be red long afterwards .
`` You must keep this boy quiet , for a week at least , and not let him put his foot to the ground .
By that time , I shall know whether he may hop a little with a crutch , or stick to his bed for a while longer , '' say Dr. Firth , put up the shining instrument that Dan do not like to see .
`` It will get well sometime , wo n't it ? ''
he ask , look alarm at the word `` crutch . ''
`` I hope so ; '' and with that the doctor depart , leave Dan much depress ; for the loss of a foot be a dreadful calamity to an active boy .
`` Do n't be trouble , I be a famous nurse , and we will have you tramp about as well a ever in a month , '' say Mrs. Jo , take a hopeful view of the case .
But the fear of be lame haunt Dan , and even Teddy 's caress do not cheer him ; so Mrs. Jo propose that one or two of the boy should come in and pay him a little visit , and ask whom he would like to see .
`` Nat and Demi ; I 'd like my hat too , there 's something in it I guess they 'd like to see .
I suppose you throw away my bundle of plunder ? ''
say Dan , look rather anxious a he put the question .
`` No , I keep it , for I think they must be treasure of some kind , you take such care of them ; '' and Mrs. Jo bring him his old straw hat stick full of butterfly and beetle , and a handkerchief contain a collection of odd thing pick up on his way : bird ' egg , carefully do up in moss , curious shell and stone , bit of fungus , and several little crab , in a state of great indignation at their imprisonment .
`` Could I have something to put these feller in ?
Mr. Hyde and I find 'em , and they be first-rate one , so I 'd like to keep and watch 'em ; can I ? ''
ask Dan , forget his foot , and laugh to see the crab go sidle and back over the bed .
`` Of course you can ; Polly 's old cage will be just the thing .
Do n't let them nip Teddy 's toe while I get it ; '' and away go Mrs. Jo , leave Dan overjoy to find that his treasure be not consider rubbish , and throw away .
Nat , Demi , and the cage arrive together , and the crab be settle in their new house , to the great delight of the boy , who , in the excitement of the performance , forget any awkwardness they might otherwise have felt in greet the runaway .
To these admire listener Dan relate his adventure much more fully than he have do to the Bhaers .
Then he display his `` plunder , '' and describe each article so well , that Mrs. Jo , who have retire to the next room to leave them free , be surprise and interested , as well a amuse , at their boyish chatter .
`` How much the lad know of these thing !
how absorbed he be in them !
and what a mercy it be just now , for he care so little for book , it would be hard to amuse him while he be lay up ; but the boy can supply him with beetle and stone to any extent , and I be glad to find out this taste of his ; it be a good one , and may perhaps prove the making of him .
If he should turn out a great naturalist , and Nat a musician , I should have cause to be proud of this year 's work ; '' and Mrs. Jo sit smile over her book a she build castle in the air , just a she use to do when a girl , only then they be for herself , and now they be for other people , which be the reason perhaps that some of them come to pass in reality for charity be an excellent foundation to build anything upon .
Nat be most interested in the adventure , but Demi enjoy the beetle and butterfly immensely , drink in the history of their changeful little life a if it be a new and lovely sort of fairy tale for , even in his plain way , Dan tell it well , and find great satisfaction in the thought that here at least the small philosopher could learn of him .
So interested be they in the account of catch a musk rat , whose skin be among the treasure , that Mr. Bhaer have to come himself to tell Nat and Demi it be time for the walk .
Dan look so wistfully after them a they run off that Father Bhaer propose carry him to the sofa in the parlor for a little change of air and scene .
When he be establish , and the house quiet , Mrs. Jo , who sit near by show Teddy picture , say , in an interested tone , a she nod towards the treasure still in Dan 's hand , `` Where do you learn so much about these thing ? ''
`` I always like 'em , but do n't know much till Mr. Hyde tell me . ''
`` Oh , he be a man who live round in the wood study these thing I do n't know what you call him and write about frog , and fish , and so on .
He stay at Page 's , and use to want me to go and help him , and it be great fun , 'cause he tell me ever so much , and be uncommon jolly and wise .
Hope I 'll see him again sometime . ''
`` I hope you will , '' say Mrs. Jo , for Dan 's face have brighten up , and he be so interested in the matter that he forget his usual taciturnity .
`` Why , he could make bird come to him , and rabbit and squirrel do n't mind him any more than if he be a tree .
Did you ever tickle a lizard with a straw ? ''
ask Dan , eagerly .
`` No , but I should like to try it . ''
`` Well , I 've do it , and it 's so funny to see 'em turn over and stretch out , they like it so much .
Mr. Hyde use to do it ; and he 'd make snake listen to him while he whistle , and he know just when certain flower would blow , and bee would n't sting him , and he 'd tell the wonderfullest thing about fish and fly , and the Indians and the rock . ''
`` I think you be so fond of go with Mr. Hyde , you rather neglect Mr . Page , '' say Mrs. Jo , slyly .
`` Yes , I do ; I hat to have to weed and hoe when I might be tramp round with Mr. Hyde .
Page think such thing silly , and call Mr. Hyde crazy because he 'd lay hour watch a trout or a bird . ''
`` Suppose you say lie instead of lay , it be well grammar , '' say Mrs. Jo , very gently ; and then add , `` Yes , Page be a thorough farmer , and would not understand that a naturalist 's work be just a interesting , and perhaps just as important a his own .
Now , Dan , if you really love these thing , a I think you do , and I be glad to see it , you shall have time to study them and book to help you ; but I want you to do something besides , and to do it faithfully , else you will be sorry by and by , and find that you have get to begin again . ''
`` Yes , ma'am , '' say Dan , meekly , and look a little scared by the serious tone of the last remark , for he hat book , yet have evidently make up his mind to study anything she propose .
`` Do you see that cabinet with twelve drawer in it ? ''
be the next very unexpected question .
Dan do see two tall old-fashioned one stand on either side of the piano ; he know them well , and have often see nice bit of string , nail , brown paper , and such useful matter come out of the various drawer .
He nod and smile .
Mrs. Jo go on , `` Well , do n't you think those drawer would be good place to put your egg , and stone , and shell , and lichen ? ''
`` Oh , splendid , but you would n't like my thing ` clutterin ' round , ' a Mr . Page use to say , would you ? ''
cried Dan , sit up to survey the old piece of furniture with sparkling eye .
`` I like litter of that sort ; and if I do n't , I should give you the drawer , because I have a regard for child 's little treasure , and I think they should be treat respectfully .
Now , I be go to make a bargain with you , Dan , and I hope you will keep it honorably .
Here be twelve good-sized drawer , one for each month of the year , and they shall be yours as fast a you earn them , by do the little duty that belong to you .
I believe in reward of a certain kind , especially for young folk ; they help u along , and though we may begin by be good for the sake of the reward , if it be rightly use , we shall soon learn to love goodness for itself . ''
`` Do you have 'em ? ''
ask Dan , look a if this be new talk for him .
`` Yes , indeed !
I have n't learn to get on without them yet .
My reward be not drawer , or present , or holiday , but they be thing which I like as much a you do the others .
The good behavior and success of my boy be one of the reward I love best , and I work for it a I want you to work for your cabinet .
Do what you dislike , and do it well , and you get two reward , one , the prize you see and hold ; the other , the satisfaction of a duty cheerfully perform .
Do you understand that ? ''
`` Yes , ma'am . ''
`` We all need these little help ; so you shall try to do your lesson and your work , play kindly with all the boy , and use your holiday well ; and if you bring me a good report , or if I see and know it without word for I 'm quick to spy out the good little effort of my boy you shall have a compartment in the drawer for your treasure .
See , some be already divide into four part , and I will have the others make in the same way , a place for each week ; and when the drawer be fill with curious and pretty thing , I shall be a proud of it a you be ; prouder , I think for in the pebble , moss , and gay butterfly , I shall see good resolution carry out , conquered fault , and a promise well keep .
Shall we do this , Dan ? ''
The boy answer with one of the look which say much , for it show that he felt and understand her wish and word , although he do not know how to express his interest and gratitude for such care and kindness .
She understand the look , and see by the color that flush up to his forehead that he be touch , a she wish him to be , she say no more about that side of the new plan , but pull out the upper drawer , dust it , and set it on two chair before the sofa , say briskly , `` Now , let u begin at once by put those nice beetle in a safe place .
These compartment will hold a good deal , you see .
I 'd pin the butterfly and bug round the side ; they will be quite safe there , and leave room for the heavy thing below .
I 'll give you some cotton wool , and clean paper and pin , and you can get ready for the week 's work . ''
`` But I ca n't go out to find any new thing , '' say Dan , look piteously at his foot .
`` That 's true ; never mind , we 'll let these treasure do for this week , and I dare say the boy will bring you load of thing if you ask them . ''
`` They do n't know the right sort ; besides , if I lay , no , lie here all the time , I ca n't work and study , and earn my drawer . ''
`` There be plenty of lesson you can learn lie there , and several little job of work you can do for me . ''
`` Can I ? ''
and Dan look both surprised and pleased .
`` You can learn to be patient and cheerful in spite of pain and no play .
You can amuse Teddy for me , wind cotton , read to me when I sew , and do many thing without hurt your foot , which will make the day pass quickly , and not be waste one . ''
Here Demi run in with a great butterfly in one hand , and a very ugly little toad in the other .
`` See , Dan , I find them , and run back to give them to you ; be n't they beautiful one ? ''
pant Demi , all out of breath .
Dan laugh at the toad , and say he have no place to put him , but the butterfly be a beauty , and if Mrs. Jo would give him a big pin , he would stick it right up in the drawer .
`` I do n't like to see the poor thing struggle on a pin ; if it must be kill , let u put it out of pain at once with a drop of camphor , '' say Mrs. Jo , get out the bottle .
`` I know how to do it Mr. Hyde always kill 'em that way but I do n't have any camphor , so I use a pin , '' and Dan gently pour a drop on the insect 's head , when the pale green wing flutter an instant , and then grow still .
This dainty little execution be hardly over when Teddy shout from the bedroom , `` Oh , the little trabs be out , and the big one 's eaten 'em all up . ''
Demi and his aunt run to the rescue , and find Teddy dance excitedly in a chair , while two little crab be scuttle about the floor , have get through the wire of the cage .
A third be cling to the top of the cage , evidently in terror of his life , for below appear a sad yet funny sight .
The big crab have wedge himself into the little recess where Polly 's cup use to stand , and there he sit eat one of his relation in the cool way .
All the claw of the poor victim be pull off , and he be turn upside down , his upper shell hold in one claw close under the mouth of the big crab like a dish , while he leisurely eat out of it with the other claw , pause now and then to turn his queer bulge eye from side to side , and to put out a slender tongue and lick them in a way that make the child scream with laughter .
Mrs. Jo carry the cage in for Dan to see the sight , while Demi catch and confine the wanderer under an inverted wash-bowl .
`` I 'll have to let these feller go , for I ca n't keep 'em in the house , '' say Dan , with evident regret .
`` I 'll take care of them for you , if you will tell me how , and they can live in my turtle-tank just as well a not , '' say Demi , who find them more interesting even that his beloved slow turtle .
So Dan give him direction about the want and habit of the crab , and Demi bore them away to introduce them to their new home and neighbor .
`` What a good boy he be ! ''
say Dan , carefully settle the first butterfly , and remember that Demi have give up his walk to bring it to him .
`` He ought to be , for a great deal have be do to make him so . ''
`` He 's have folk to tell him thing , and to help him ; I have n't , '' say Dan , with a sigh , thinking of his neglected childhood , a thing he seldom do , and feeling a if he have not have fair play somehow .
`` I know it , dear , and for that reason I do n't expect as much from you a from Demi , though he be young ; you shall have all the help that we can give you now , and I hope to teach you how to help yourself in the best way .
Have you forget what Father Bhaer tell you when you be here before , about want to be good , and ask God to help you ? ''
`` No , ma'am , '' very low .
`` Do you try that way still ? ''
`` No , ma'am , '' low still .
`` Will you do it every night to please me ? ''
`` Yes , ma'am , '' very soberly .
`` I shall depend on it , and I think I shall know if you be faithful to your promise , for these thing always show to people who believe in them , though not a word be say .
Now here be a pleasant story about a boy who hurt his foot bad than you do yours ; read it , and see how bravely he bore his trouble . ''
She put that charm little book , `` The Crofton Boys , '' into his hand , and leave him for an hour , passing in and out from time to time that he might not feel lonely .
Dan do not love to read , but soon get so interested that he be surprise when the boy come home .
Daisy bring him a nosegay of wild flower , and Nan insist on help bring him his supper , a he lay on the sofa with the door open into the dining-room , so that he could see the lad at table , and they could nod socially to him over their bread and butter .
Mr. Bhaer carry him away to his bed early , and Teddy come in his night-gown to say good-night , for he go to his little nest with the bird .
`` I want to say my prayer to Danny ; may I ? ''
he ask ; and when his mother say , `` Yes , '' the little fellow kneel down by Dan 's bed , and fold his chubby hand , say softly , `` Pease Dod be everybody , and hep me to be dood . ''
Then he go away smile with sleepy sweetness over his mother 's shoulder .
But after the evening talk be do , the evening song sung , and the house grow still with beautiful Sunday silence , Dan lay in his pleasant room wide awake , think new thought , feel new hope and desire stir in his boyish heart , for two good angel have enter in : love and gratitude begin the work which time and effort be to finish ; and with an earnest wish to keep his first promise , Dan fold his hand together in the Darkness , and softly whisper Teddy 's little prayer , `` Please God bless every one , and help me to be good . ''
CHAPTER XI .
UNCLE TEDDY For a week Dan only move from bed to sofa ; a long week and a hard one , for the hurt foot be very painful at time , the quiet day be very wearisome to the active lad , long to be out enjoy the summer weather , and especially difficult be it to be patient .
But Dan do his best , and every one help him in their various way ; so the time pass , and he be reward at last by hear the doctor say , on Saturday morning , `` This foot be do good than I expect .
Give the lad the crutch this afternoon , and let him stump about the house a little . ''
`` Hooray ! ''
shout Nat , and race away to tell the other boys the good news .
Everybody be very glad , and after dinner the whole flock assemble to behold Dan crutch himself up and down the hall a few time before he settle in the porch to hold a sort of levee .
He be much please at the interest and good-will show him , and brighten up more and more every minute ; for the boy come to pay their respect , the little girl fuss about him with stool and cushion , and Teddy watch over him a if he be a frail creature unable to do anything for himself .
They be still sit and stand about the step , when a carriage stop at the gate , a hat be wave from it , and with a shout of `` Uncle Teddy !
Uncle Teddy ! ''
Rob scamper down the avenue as fast a his short leg would carry him .
All he boys but Dan run after him to see who should be first to open the gate , and in a moment the carriage drive up with boy swarm all over it , while Uncle Teddy sit laugh in the midst , with his little daughter on his knee .
`` Stop the triumphal car and let Jupiter descend , '' he say , and jump out run up the step to meet Mrs. Bhaer , who stand smile and clap her hand like a girl .
`` How go it , Teddy ? ''
`` All right , Jo . ''
Then they shake hand , and Mr. Laurie put Bess into her aunt 's arm , say , a the child hug her tight , `` Goldilocks want to see you so much that I run away with her , for I be quite pin for a sight of you myself .
We want to play with your boy for an hour or so , and to see how ` the old woman who live in a shoe , and have so many child she do not know what to do , ' be get on . ''
`` I 'm so glad !
Play away , and do n't get into mischief , '' answer Mrs. Jo , a the lad crowd round the pretty child , admire her long golden hair , dainty dress , and lofty way , for the little `` Princess , '' a they call her , allow no one to kiss her , but sit smile down upon them , and graciously pat their head with her little , white hand .
They all adore her , especially Rob , who consider her a sort of doll , and dare not touch her l she should break , but worship her at a respectful distance , make happy by an occasional mark of favor from her little highness .
As she immediately demand to see Daisy 's kitchen , she be bear off by Mrs. Jo , with a train of small boy follow .
The others , all but Nat and Demi , run away to the menagerie and garden to have all in order ; for Mr. Laurie always take a general survey , and look disappointed if thing be not flourish .
Standing on the step , he turn to Dan , say like an old acquaintance , though he have only see him once or twice before , `` How be the foot ? ''
`` Better , sir . ''
`` Rather tire of the house , be n't you ? ''
`` Guess I be ! ''
and Dan 's eye rove away to the green hill and wood where he long to be .
`` Suppose we take a little turn before the others come back ?
That big , easy carriage will be quite safe and comfortable , and a breath of fresh air will do you good .
Get a cushion and a shawl , Demi , and let 's carry Dan off . ''
The boy think it a capital joke , and Dan look delighted , but ask , with an unexpected burst of virtue , `` Will Mrs. Bhaer like it ? ''
`` Oh , yes ; we settle all that a minute ago . ''
`` You do n't say any thing about it , so I do n't see how you could , '' say Demi , inquisitively .
`` We have a way of send message to one another , without any word .
It be a great improvement on the telegraph . ''
`` I know it 's eye ; I saw you lift your eyebrow , and nod toward the carriage , and Mrs. Bhaer laugh and nod back again , '' cry Nat , who be quite at his ease with kind Mr. Laurie by this time .
`` Right .
Now them , come on , '' and in a minute Dan find himself settle in the carriage , his foot on a cushion on the seat opposite , nicely cover with a shawl , which fell down from the upper region in a most mysterious manner , just when they want it .
Demi climb up to the box beside Peter , the black coachman .
Nat sit next Dan in the place of honor , while Uncle Teddy would sit opposite , to take care of the foot , he say , but really that he might study the face before him both so happy , yet so different , for Dan 's be square , and brown , and strong , while Nat 's be long , and fair , and rather weak , but very amiable with it mild eye and good forehead .
`` By the way , I 've get a book somewhere here that you may like to see , '' say the old boy of the party , dive under the seat and produce a book which make Dan exclaim , `` Oh !
by George , be n't that a stunner ? ''
a he turn the leaf , and saw fine plate of butterfly , and bird , and every sort of interest insect , color like life .
He be so charmed that he forget his thanks , but Mr. Laurie do not mind , and be quite satisfied to see the boy 's eager delight , and to hear this exclamation over certain old friend a he come to them .
Nat lean on his shoulder to look , and Demi turn his back to the horse , and let his foot dangle inside the carriage , so that he might join in the conversation .
When they get among the beetle , Mr. Laurie take a curious little object out of his vest-pocket , and lay it in the palm of his hand , say , `` There 's a beetle that be thousand of year old ; '' and then , while the lad examine the queer stone-bug , that look so old and gray , he tell them how it come out of the wrapping of a mummy , after lie for age in a famous tomb .
Finding them interested , he go on to tell about the Egyptians , and the strange and splendid ruin they have leave behind them the Nile , and how he sail up the mighty river , with the handsome dark men to work his boat ; how he shoot alligator , saw wonderful beast and bird ; and afterwards cross the desert on a camel , who pitch him about like a ship in a storm .
`` Uncle Teddy tell story ` most as well a Grandpa , '' say Demi , approvingly , when the tale be do , and the boy ' eye ask for more .
`` Thank you , '' say Mr. Laurie , quite soberly , for he consider Demi 's praise worth have , for child be good critic in such case , and to suit them be an accomplishment that any one may be proud of .
`` Here 's another trifle or two that I tuck into my pocket a I be turn over my trap to see if I have any thing that would amuse Dan , '' and Uncle Teddy produce a fine arrow-head and a string of wampum .
`` Oh !
tell about the Indians , '' cry Demi , who be fond of play wigwam .
`` Dan know lot about them , '' add Nat .
`` More than I do , I dare say .
Tell u something , '' and Mr. Laurie look as interested a the other two .
`` Mr. Hyde tell me ; he 's be among 'em , and can talk their talk , and like 'em , '' begin Dan , flatter by their attention , but rather embarrass by have a grown-up listener .
`` What be wampum for ? ''
ask curious Demi , from his perch .
The others ask question likewise , and , before he know it , Dan be reel off all Mr. Hyde have tell him , a they sail down the river a few week before .
Mr. Laurie listen well , but find the boy more interesting than the Indians , for Mrs. Jo have tell him about Dan , and he rather take a fancy to the wild lad , who run away a he himself have often long to do , and who be slowly get tame by pain and patience .
`` I 've be think that it would be a good plan for you fellows to have a museum of your own ; a place in which to collect all the curious and interesting thing that you find , and make , and have give you .
Mrs. Jo be too kind to complain , but it be rather hard for her to have the house litter up with all sort of rattletraps , half-a-pint of dor-bugs in one of her best vas , for instance , a couple of dead bat nail up in the back entry , wasps nest tumble down on people 's head , and stone lie round everywhere , enough to pave the avenue .
There be not many woman who would stand that sort of thing , be there , now ? ''
As Mr. Laurie speak with a merry look in his eye , the boy laugh and nudge one another , for it be evident that some one tell tale out of school , else how could he know of the existence of these inconvenient treasure .
`` Where can we put them , then ? ''
say Demi , cross his leg and lean down to argue the question .
`` In the old carriage-house . ''
`` But it leak , and there be n't any window , nor any place to put thing , and it 's all dust and cobweb , '' begin Nat .
`` Wait till Gibbs and I have touch it up a bit , and then see how you like it .
He be to come over on Monday to get it ready ; then next Saturday I shall come out , and we will fix it up , and make the beginning , at least , of a fine little museum .
Every one can bring his thing , and have a place for them ; and Dan be to be the head man , because he know most about such matter , and it will be quiet , pleasant work for him now that he ca n't knock about much . ''
`` Wo n't that be jolly ? ''
cry Nat , while Dan smile all over his face and have not a word to say , but hug his book , and look at Mr. Laurie a if he think him one of the great public benefactor that ever bless the world .
`` Shall I go round again , sir ? ''
ask Peter , a they come to the gate , after two slow turn about the half-mile triangle .
`` No , we must be prudent , else we ca n't come again .
I must go over the premise , take a look at the carriage-house , and have a little talk with Mrs. Jo before I go ; '' and , have deposit Dan on his sofa to rest and enjoy his book , Uncle Teddy go off to have a frolic with the lad who be rag about the place in search of him .
Leaving the little girl to mess up-stairs , Mrs. Bhaer sit down by Dan , and listen to his eager account of the drive till the flock return , dusty , warm , and much excite about the new museum , which every one consider the most brilliant idea of the age .
`` I always want to endow some sort of an institution , and I be go to begin with this , '' say Mr. Laurie , sit down on a stool at Mrs. Jo 's foot .
`` You have endow one already .
What do you call this ? ''
and Mrs. Jo point to the happy-faced lad , who have camp upon the floor about him .
`` I call it a very promising Bhaer-garden , and I 'm proud to be a member of it .
Did you know I be the head boy in this school ? ''
he ask , turn to Dan , and change the subject skilfully , for he hat to be thank for the generous thing he do .
`` I think Franz be ! ''
answered Dan , wonder what the man meant .
`` Oh , dear no !
I 'm the first boy Mrs. Jo ever have to take care of , and I be such a bad one that she be n't do with me yet , though she have be work at me for year and year . ''
`` How old she must be ! ''
say Nat , innocently .
`` She begin early , you see .
Poor thing !
she be only fifteen when she take me , and I lead her such a life , it 's a wonder she be n't wrinkle and gray , and quite wear out , '' and Mr. Laurie look up at her laughing .
`` Do n't Teddy ; I wo n't have you abuse yourself so ; '' and Mrs. Jo stroke the curly black head at her knee as affectionately a ever , for , in spite of every thing Teddy be her boy still .
`` If it have n't be for you , there never would have be a Plumfield .
It be my success with you , sir , that give me courage to try my pet plan .
So the boy may thank you for it , and name the new institution ` The Laurence Museum , ' in honor of it founder , wo n't we , boy ? ''
she add , look very like the lively Jo of old time .
`` We will !
we will ! ''
shout the boy , throw up their hat , for though they have take them off on enter the house , accord to rule , they have be in too much of a hurry to hang them up .
`` I 'm as hungry a a bear , ca n't I have a cookie ? ''
ask Mr. Laurie , when the shout subside and he have express his thanks by a splendid bow .
`` Trot out and ask Asia for the gingerbread-box , Demi .
It be n't in order to eat between meal , but , on this joyful occasion , we wo n't mind , and have a cookie all round , '' say Mrs. Jo ; and when the box come she deal them out with a liberal hand , every one munch away in a social circle .
Suddenly , in the midst of a bite , Mr. Laurie cry out , `` Bless my heart , I forget grandma 's bundle ! ''
and run out to the carriage , return with an interesting white parcel , which , be open , disclose a choice collection of beast , bird , and pretty thing cut out of crisp sugary cake , and bake a lovely brown .
`` There 's one for each , and a letter to tell which be whose .
Grandma and Hannah make them , and I tremble to think what would have happen to me if I have forget to leave them . ''
Then , amid much laughing and fun , the cake be distribute .
A fish for Dan , a fiddle for Nat , a book for Demi , a money for Tommy , a flower for Daisy , a hoop for Nan , who have drive twice round the triangle without stop , a star for Emil , who put on air because he study astronomy , and , best of all , an omnibus for Franz , whose great delight be to drive the family bus .
Stuffy get a fat pig , and the little folk have bird , and cat , and rabbit , with black currant eye .
`` Now I must go .
Where be my Goldilocks ?
Mamma will come fly out to get her if I 'm not back early , '' say Uncle Teddy , when the last crumb have vanish , which it speedily do , you may be sure .
The young lady have go into the garden , and while they wait till Franz look them up , Jo and Laurie stand at the door talk together .
`` How do little Giddy-gaddy come on ? ''
he ask , for Nan 's prank amuse him very much , and he be never tire of tease Jo about her .
`` Nicely ; she be get quite mannerly , and begin to see the error of her wild way . ''
`` Do n't the boys encourage her in them ? ''
`` Yes ; but I keep talk , and lately she have improve much .
You saw how prettily she shake hand with you , and how gentle she be with Bess .
Daisy 's example have it effect upon her , and I 'm quite sure that a few month will work wonder . ''
Here Mrs. Jo 's remark be cut short by the appearance of Nan tear round the corner at a break-neck pace , drive a mettlesome team of four boy , and follow by Daisy trundle Bess in a wheelbarrow .
Hat off , hair fly , whip cracking , and barrow bumping , up they come in a cloud of dust , look a wild a set of little hoyden a one would wish to see .
`` So , these be the model child , be they ?
It 's lucky I do n't bring Mrs. Curtis out to see your school for the cultivation of moral and manner ; she would never have recover from the shock of this spectacle , '' say Mr. Laurie , laugh at Mrs. Jo 's premature rejoicing over Nan 's improvement .
`` Laugh away ; I 'll succeed yet .
As you use to say at College , quote some professor , ` Though the experiment have fail , the principle remain the same , ' '' say Mrs. Bhaer , join in the merriment .
`` I 'm afraid Nan 's example be take effect upon Daisy , instead of the other way .
Look at my little princess !
she have utterly forget her dignity , and be scream like the rest .
Young lady , what do this mean ? ''
and Mr. Laurie rescue his small daughter from impend destruction , for the four horse be champ their bit and curvet madly all about her , a she sit brandish a great whip in both hand .
`` We 're have a race , and I beat , '' shout Nan .
`` I could have run faster , only I be afraid of spill Bess , '' scream Daisy .
`` Hi !
go long ! ''
cry the princess , give such a flourish with her whip that the horse run away , and be see no more .
`` My precious child !
come away from this ill-mannered crew before you be quite spoilt .
Good-by , Jo !
Next time I come , I shall expect to find the boy make patchwork . ''
`` It would n't hurt them a bit .
I do n't give in , mind you ; for my experiment always fail a few time before they succeed .
Love to Amy and my blessed Marmee , '' call Mrs. Jo , a the carriage drive away ; and the last Mr. Laurie saw of her , she be console Daisy for her failure by a ride in the wheelbarrow , and look a if she like it .
Great be the excitement all the week about the repair in the carriage-house , which go briskly on in spite of the incessant question , advice , and meddling of the boy .
Old Gibbs be nearly driven wild with it all , but manage to do his work nevertheless ; and by Friday night the place be all in order roof mend , shelve up , wall whitewash , a great window cut at the back , which let in a flood of sunshine , and give them a fine view of the brook , the meadow , and the distant hill ; and over the great door , paint in red letter , be `` The Laurence Museum . ''
All Saturday morning the boy be plan how it should be furnish with their spoil , and when Mr. Laurie arrive , bring an aquarium which Mrs. Amy say she be tire of , their rapture be great .
The afternoon be spend in arrange thing , and when the running and lugging and hammering be over , the lady be invite to behold the institution .
It certainly be a pleasant place , airy , clean , and bright .
A hop-vine shook it green bell round the open window , the pretty aquarium stand in the middle of the room , with some delicate water plant rise above the water , and gold-fish show their brightness a they float to and fro below .
On either side of the window be row of shelf ready to receive the curiosity yet to be find .
Dan 's tall cabinet stand before the great door which be fasten up , while the small door be to be use .
On the cabinet stand a queer Indian idol , very ugly , but very interesting ; old Mr. Laurence send it , as well a a fine Chinese junk in full sail , which have a conspicuous place on the long table in the middle of the room .
Above , swing in a loop , and look a if she be alive , hung Polly , who die at an advanced age , have be carefully stuff , and be no present by Mrs. Jo .
The wall be decorate with all sort of thing .
A snake 's skin , a big wasp 's nest , a birch-bark canoe , a string of bird ' egg , wreath of gray moss from the South , and a bunch of cotton-pods .
The dead bat have a place , also a large turtle-shell , and an ostrich-egg proudly present by Demi , who volunteer to explain these rare curiosity to guest whenever they like .
There be so many stone that it be impossible to accept them all , so only a few of the best be arrange among the shell on the shelf , the rest be pile up in corner , to be examine by Dan at his leisure .
Every one be eager to give something , even Silas , who send home for a stuffed wild-cat kill in his youth .
It be rather moth-eaten and shabby , but on a high bracket and best side foremost the effect be fine , for the yellow glass eye glare , and the mouth snarl so naturally , that Teddy shake in his little shoe at sight of it , when he come bring his most cherished treasure , one cocoon , to lay upon the shrine of science .
`` Is n't it beautiful ?
I 'd no idea we have so many curious thing .
I give that ; do n't it look well ?
We might make a lot by charge something for let folk see it . ''
Jack add that last suggestion to the general chatter that go on a the family view the room .
`` This be a free museum and if there be any speculate on it I 'll paint out the name over the door , '' say Mr. Laurie , turn so quickly that Jack wish he have hold his tongue .
`` Hear !
hear ! ''
cried Mr. Bhaer .
`` Speech !
speech ! ''
add Mrs. Jo .
`` Ca n't , I 'm too bashful .
You give them a lecture yourself you be use to it , '' Mr. Laurie answer , retreat towards the window , mean to escape .
But she hold him fast , and say , laugh a she look at the dozen pair of dirty hand about her , `` If I do lecture , it would on the chemical and cleanse property of soap .
Come now , a the founder of the institution , you really ought to give u a few moral remark , and we will applaud tremendously . ''
Seeing that there be no way of escape , Mr. Laurie look up at Polly hang overhead , seem to find inspiration in the brilliant old bird , and sit down upon the table , say , in his pleasant way , `` There be one thing I 'd like to suggest , boy , and that be , I want you to get some good as well a much pleasure out of this .
Just put curious or pretty thing here wo n't do it ; so suppose you read up about them , so that when anybody ask question you can answer them , and understand the matter .
I use to like these thing myself , and should enjoy hear about them now , for I 've forget all I once know .
It be n't much , be it , Jo ?
Here 's Dan now , full of story about bird , and bug , and so on ; let him take care of the museum , and once a week the rest of you take turn to read a composition , or tell about some animal , mineral , or vegetable .
We should all like that , and I think it would put considerable useful knowledge into our head .
What do you say , Professor ? ''
`` I like it much , and will give the lads all the help I can .
But they will need book to read up these new subject , and we have not many , I fear , '' begin Mr. Bhaer , look much pleased , plan many fine lecture on geology , which he like .
`` We should have a library for the special purpose . ''
`` Is that a useful sort of book , Dan ? ''
ask Mr. Laurie , point to the volume that lay open by the cabinet .
`` Oh , yes !
it tell all I want to know about insect .
I have it here to see how to fix the butterfly right .
I cover it , so it be not hurt ; '' and Dan catch it up , fear the lender might think him careless .
`` Give it here a minute ; '' and , pull out his pencil , Mr. Laurie write Dan 's name in it , say , a he set the book up on one of the corner shelf , where nothing stand but a stuffed bird without a tail , `` There , that be the beginning of the museum library .
I 'll hunt up some more book , and Demi shall keep them in order .
Where be those jolly little book we use to read , Jo ?
` Insect Architecture ' or some such name , all about ant have battle , and bee have queen , and cricket eat hole in our clothes and steal milk , and lark of that sort . ''
`` In the garret at home .
I 'll have them send out , and we will plunge into Natural History with a will , '' say Mrs. Jo , ready for any thing .
`` Wo n't it be hard to write about such thing ? ''
ask Nat , who hat composition .
`` At first , perhaps ; but you will soon like it .
If you think that hard , how would you like to have this subject give to you , a it be to a girl of thirteen : A conversation between Themistocles , Aristides , and Pericles on the propose appropriation of fund of the confederacy of Delos for the ornamentation of Athens ? ''
say Mrs. Jo .
The boy groan at the mere sound of the long name , and the gentleman laugh at the absurdity of the lesson .
`` Did she write it ? ''
ask Demi , in an awe-stricken tone .
`` Yes , but you can imagine what a piece of work she make of it , though she be rather a bright child . ''
`` I 'd like to have see it , '' say Mr. Bhaer .
`` Perhaps I can find it for you ; I go to school with her , '' and Mrs. Jo look so wicked that every one knew who the little girl be .
Hearing of this fearful subject for a composition quite reconcile the boy to the thought of write about familiar thing .
Wednesday afternoon be appoint for the lecture , a they prefer to call them , for some chose to talk instead of write .
Mr. Bhaer promise a portfolio in which the write production should be keep , and Mrs. Bhaer say she would attend the course with great pleasure .
Then the dirty-handed society go off the wash , follow by the Professor , try to calm the anxiety of Rob , who have be tell by Tommy that all water be full of invisible pollywog .
`` I like your plan very much , only do n't be too generous , Teddy , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , when they be leave alone .
`` You know most of the boy have get to paddle their own canoe when they leave u , and too much sit in the lap of luxury will unfit them for it . ''
`` I 'll be moderate , but do let me amuse myself .
I get desperately tire of business sometimes , and nothing freshens me up like a good frolic with your boy .
I like that Dan very much , Jo .
He be n't demonstrative ; but he have the eye of a hawk , and when you have tame him a little he will do you credit . ''
`` I 'm so glad you think so .
Thank you very much for your kindness to him , especially for this museum affair ; it will keep him happy while he be lame , give me a chance to soften and smooth this poor , rough lad , and make him love u .
What do inspire you with such a beautiful , helpful idea , Teddy ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer , glance back at the pleasant room , a she turn to leave it .
Laurie take both her hand in his , and answer , with a look that make her eye fill with happy tear , `` Dear Jo !
I have know what it be to be a motherless boy , and I never can forget how much you and yours have do for me all these year . ''
CHAPTER XII .
HUCKLEBERRIES There be a great clashing of tin pail , much run to and fro , and frequent demand for something to eat , one August afternoon , for the boy be go huckleberrying , and make a much stir about it a if they be set out to find the North West Passage .
`` Now , my lad , get off as quietly a you can , for Rob be safely out of the way , and wo n't see you , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , a she tie Daisy 's broad-brimmed hat , and settle the great blue pinafore in which she have envelop Nan .
But the plan do not succeed , for Rob have hear the bustle , decide to go , and prepare himself , without a thought of disappointment .
The troop be just get under way when the little man come march downstairs with his best hat on , a bright tin pail in his hand , and a face beam with satisfaction .
`` Oh , dear !
now we shall have a scene , '' sigh Mrs. Bhaer , who find her eldest son very hard to manage at time .
`` I 'm all ready , '' say Rob , and take his place in the rank with such perfect unconsciousness of his mistake , that it really be very hard to undeceive him .
`` It 's too far for you , my love ; stay and take care of me , for I shall be all alone , '' begin his mother .
`` You 've get Teddy .
I 'm a big boy , so I can go ; you say I might when I be big , and I be now , '' persist Rob , with a cloud begin to dim the brightness of his happy face .
`` We be go up to the great pasture , and it 's ever so far ; we do n't want you tag on , '' cry Jack , who do not admire the little boy .
`` I wo n't tag , I 'll run and keep up .
O Mamma !
let me go !
I want to fill my new pail , and I 'll bring 'em all to you .
Please , please , I will be good ! ''
prayed Robby , look up at his mother , so grieved and disappointed that her heart begin to fail her .
`` But , my deary , you 'll get so tired and hot you wo n't have a good time .
Wait till I go , and then we will stay all day , and pick a many berry a you want . ''
`` You never do go , you be so busy , and I 'm tired of wait .
I 'd rather go and get the berry for you all myself .
I love to pick 'em , and I want to fill my new pail dreffly , '' sob Rob .
The pathetic sight of great tear tinkle into the dear new pail , and threaten to fill it with salt water instead of huckleberry , touch all the lady present .
His mother pat the weeper on his back ; Daisy offer to stay home with him ; and Nan say , in her decided way , `` Let him come ; I 'll take care of him . ''
`` If Franz be go I would n't mind , for he be very careful ; but he be hay with the father , and I 'm not sure about the rest of you , '' begin Mrs. Bhaer .
`` It 's so far , '' put in Jack .
`` I 'd carry him if I be go wish I be , '' say Dan , with a sigh .
`` Thank you , dear , but you must take care of your foot .
I wish I could go .
Stop a minute , I think I can manage it after all ; '' and Mrs. Bhaer run out to the step , wave her apron wildly .
Silas be just drive away in the hay-cart , but turn back , and agree at once , when Mrs. Jo propose that he should take the whole party to the pasture , and go for them at five o'clock .
`` It will delay your work a little , but never mind ; we will pay you in huckleberry pie , '' say Mrs. Jo , know Silas 's weak point .
His rough , brown face brighten up , and he say , with a cheery `` Haw !
haw ! ''
`` Wal now , Mis ' Bhaer , if you go to bribin ' of me , I shall give in right away . ''
`` Now , boy , I have arrange it so that you can all go , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , run back again , much relieve , for she love to make them happy , and always felt miserable when she have disturb the serenity of her little son ; for she believe that the small hope and plan and pleasure of child should be tenderly respect by grown-up people , and never rudely thwart or ridicule .
`` Can I go ? ''
say Dan , delight .
`` I think especially of you .
Be careful , and never mind the berry , but sit about and enjoy the lovely thing which you know how to find all about you , '' answer Mrs. Bhaer , who remember his kind offer to her boy .
`` Me too !
me too ! ''
sung Rob , dance with joy , and clap his precious pail and cover like castanets .
`` Yes , and Daisy and Nan must take good care of you .
Be at the bar at five o'clock , and Silas will come for you all . ''
Robby cast himself upon his mother in a burst of gratitude , promise to bring her every berry he pick , and not eat one .
Then they be all pack into the hay-cart , and go rattle away , the bright face among the dozen be that of Rob , a he sit between his two temporary little mother , beam upon the whole world , and wave his best hat ; for his indulgent mamma have not the heart to bereave him of it , since this be a gala-day to him .
Such a happy afternoon a they have , in spite of the mishap which usually occur on such expedition !
Of course Tommy come to grief , tumble upon a hornet 's nest and get stung ; but be use to woe , he bore the smart manfully , till Dan suggest the application of damp earth , which much assuage the pain .
Daisy saw a snake , and fly from it lose half her berry ; but Demi help her to fill up again , and discuss reptile most learnedly the while .
Ned fell out of a tree , and split his jacket down the back , but suffer no other fracture .
Emil and Jack establish rival claim to a certain thick patch , and while they be squabble about it , Stuffy quickly and quietly strip the bush and flee to the protection of Dan , who be enjoy himself immensely .
The crutch be no longer necessary , and he be delight to see how strong his foot felt a he roam about the great pasture , full of interest rock and stump , with familiar little creature in the grass , and well-known insect dance in the air .
But of all the adventure that happen on this afternoon that which befall Nan and Rob be the most exciting , and it long remain one of the favorite history of the household .
Having explore the country pretty generally , torn three rent in her frock , and scratch her face in a barberry-bush , Nan begin to pick the berry that shine like big , black bead on the low , green bush .
Her nimble finger fly , but still her basket do not fill up as rapidly a she desire , so she keep wander here and there to search for good place , instead of pick contentedly and steadily a Daisy do .
Rob follow Nan , for her energy suit him good than his cousin 's patience , and he too be anxious to have the big and best berry for Marmar .
`` I keep put 'em in , but it do n't fill up , and I 'm so tired , '' say Rob , pause a moment to rest his short leg , and begin to think huckleberrying be not all his fancy paint it ; for the sun blaze , Nan skip hither and thither like a grasshopper , and the berry fell out of his pail almost as fast a he put them in , because , in his struggle with the bush , it be often upside-down .
`` Last time we come they be ever so much thicker over that wall great bouncer ; and there be a cave there where the boy make a fire .
Let 's go and fill our thing quick , and then hide in the cave and let the others find u , '' propose Nan , thirst for adventure .
Rob consent , and away they go , scramble over the wall and run down the sloping field on the other side , till they be hide among the rock and underbrush .
The berry be thick , and at last the pail be actually full .
It be shady and cool down there , and a little spring give the thirsty child a refreshing drink out of it mossy cup .
`` Now we will go and rest in the cave , and eat our lunch , '' say Nan , well satisfied with her success so far .
`` Do you know the way ? ''
ask Rob . ''
` Course I do ; I 've be once , and I always remember .
Did n't I go and get my box all right ? ''
That convince Rob , and he follow blindly a Nan lead him over stock and stone , and bring him , after much meandering , to a small recess in the rock , where the blacken stone show that fire have be make .
`` Now , be n't it nice ? ''
ask Nan , a she take out a bit of bread-and-butter , rather damage by be mix up with nail , fishhook , stone and other foreign substance , in the young lady 's pocket .
`` Yes ; do you think they will find u soon ? ''
ask Rob , who find the shadowy glen rather dull , and begin to long for more society .
`` No , I do n't ; because if I hear them , I shall hide , and have fun make them find me . ''
`` P'raps they wo n't come . ''
`` Do n't care ; I can get home myself . ''
`` Is it a great way ? ''
ask Rob , look at his little stubby boot , scratch and wet with his long wandering .
`` It 's six mile , I guess . ''
Nan 's idea of distance be vague , and her faith in her own power great .
`` I think we good go now , '' suggest Rob , presently .
`` I sha n't till I have pick over my berry ; '' and Nan begin what seem to Rob an endless task .
`` Oh , dear !
you say you 'd take good care of me , '' he sigh , a the sun seem to drop behind the hill all of a sudden .
`` Well I be take good care of you as hard a I can .
Do n't be cross , child ; I 'll go in a minute , '' say Nan , who consider five-year-old Robby a mere infant compare to herself .
So little Rob sit look anxiously about him , and wait patiently , for , spite of some misgiving , he felt great confidence in Nan .
`` I guess it 's go to be night pretty soon , '' he observe , a if to himself , a a mosquito bit him , and the frog in a neighboring marsh begin to pipe up for the evening concert .
`` My goodness me !
so it be .
Come right away this minute , or they will be go , '' cry Nan , look up from her work , and suddenly perceive that the sun be down .
`` I hear a horn about an hour ago ; may be they be blow for u , '' say Rob , trudge after his guide a she scramble up the steep hill .
`` Where be it ? ''
ask Nan , stop short .
`` Over that way ; '' he point with a dirty little finger in an entirely wrong direction .
`` Let 's go that way and meet them ; '' and Nan wheel about , and begin to trot through the bush , feel a trifle anxious , for there be so many cow-paths all about she could not remember which way they come .
On they go over stock and stone again , pause now and then to listen for the horn , which do not blow any more , for it be only the moo of a cow on her way home .
`` I do n't remember see that pile of stone do you ? ''
ask Nan , a she sit on a wall to rest a moment and take an observation .
`` I do n't remember any thing , but I want to go home , '' and Rob 's voice have a little tremble in it that make Nan put her arm round him and lift him gently down , say , in her most capable way , `` I 'm go just as fast a I can , dear .
Do n't cry , and when we come to the road , I 'll carry you . ''
`` Where be the road ? ''
and Robby wipe his eye to look for it .
`` Over by that big tree .
Do n't you know that 's the one Ned tumble out of ? ''
`` So it be .
May be they wait for u ; I 'd like to ride home would n't you ? ''
and Robby brighten up a he plod along toward the end of the great pasture .
`` No , I 'd rather walk , '' answer Nan , feel quite sure that she would be oblige to do so , and prepare her mind for it .
Another long trudge through the fast-deepening twilight and another disappointment , for when they reach the tree , they find to their dismay that it be not the one Ned climb , and no road anywhere appear .
`` Are we lose ? ''
quavered Rob , clasp his pail in despair .
`` Not much .
I do n't just see which way to go , and I guess we 'd better call . ''
So they both shout till they be hoarse , yet nothing answer but the frog in full chorus .
`` There be another tall tree over there , perhaps that 's the one , '' say Nan , whose heart sunk within her , though she still speak bravely .
`` I do n't think I can go any more ; my boot be so heavy I ca n't pull 'em ; '' and Robby sit down on a stone quite wear out .
`` Then we must stay here all night .
I do n't care much , if snake do n't come . ''
`` I 'm frightened of snake .
I ca n't stay all night .
Oh , dear !
I do n't like to be lose , '' and Rob pucker up his face to cry , when suddenly a thought occur to him , and he say , in a tone of perfect confidence , `` Marmar will come and find me she always do ; I ai n't afraid now . ''
`` She wo n't know where we be . ''
`` She do n't know I be shut up in the ice-house , but she find me .
I know she 'll come , '' return Robby , so trustfully , that Nan felt relieve , and sit down by him , say , with a remorseful sigh , `` I wish we have n't run away . ''
`` You make me ; but I do n't mind much Marmar will love me just the same , '' answer Rob , cling to his sheet-anchor when all other hope be go .
`` I 'm so hungry .
Let 's eat our berry , '' propose Nan , after a pause , during which Rob begin to nod .
`` So be I , but I ca n't eat mine , 'cause I tell Marmar I 'd keep them all for her . ''
`` You 'll have to eat them if no one come for u , '' say Nan , who felt like contradict every thing just then .
`` If we stay here a great many day , we shall eat up all the berry in the field , and then we shall starve , '' she add grimly .
`` I shall eat sassafras .
I know a big tree of it , and Dan tell me how squirrel dig up the root and eat them , and I love to dig , '' return Rob , undaunted by the prospect of starvation .
`` Yes ; and we can catch frog , and cook them .
My father eat some once , and he say they be nice , '' put in Nan , begin to find a spice of romance even in be lose in a huckleberry pasture .
`` How could we cook frog ?
we have n't get any fire . ''
`` I do n't know ; next time I 'll have match in my pocket , '' say Nan , rather depress by this obstacle to the experiment in frog-cookery .
`` Could n't we light a fire with a fire-fly ? ''
ask Rob , hopefully , a he watch them flit to and fro like winged spark .
`` Let 's try ; '' and several minute be pleasantly spend in catch the fly , and try to make them kindle a green twig or two .
`` It 's a lie to call them fire-flies when there be n't a fire in them , '' Nan say , throw one unhappy insect away with scorn , though it shine it best , and obligingly walk up and down the twig to please the innocent little experimenter .
`` Marmar 's a good while come , '' say Rob , after another pause , during which they watch the star overhead , smelt the sweet fern crush under foot , and listen to the cricket ' serenade .
`` I do n't see why God make any night ; day be so much pleasanter , '' say Nan , thoughtfully .
`` It 's to sleep in , '' answer Rob , with a yawn .
`` Then do go to sleep , '' say Nan , pettishly .
`` I want my own bed .
Oh , I wish I could see Teddy ! ''
cry Rob , painfully remind of home by the soft chirp of bird safe in their little nest .
`` I do n't believe your mother will ever find u , '' say Nan , who be become desperate , for she hat patient waiting of any sort .
`` It 's so dark she wo n't see u . ''
`` It be all black in the ice-house , and I be so scared I do n't call her , but she saw me ; and she will see me now , no matter how dark it be , '' return confide Rob , stand up to peer into the gloom for the help which never fail him .
`` I see her !
I see her ! ''
he cry , and run as fast a his tired leg would take him toward a dark figure slowly approaching .
Suddenly he stop , then turn about , and come stumble back , scream in a great panic , `` No , it 's a bear , a big black one ! ''
and hide his face in Nan 's skirt .
For a moment Nan quail ; ever her courage give out at the thought of a real bear , and she be about to turn and flee in great disorder , when a mild `` Moo ! ''
change her fear to merriment , a she say , laugh , `` It 's a cow , Robby !
the nice , black cow we saw this afternoon . ''
The cow seem to feel that it be not just the thing to meet two little people in her pasture after dark , and the amiable beast pause to inquire into the case .
She let them stroke her , and stand regard them with her soft eye so mildly , that Nan , who fear no animal but a bear , be fire with a desire to milk her .
`` Silas teach me how ; and berry and milk would be so nice , '' she say , empty the content of her pail into her hat , and boldly begin her new task , while Rob stand by and repeat , at her command , the poem from Mother Goose : `` Cushy cow , bonny , let down your milk , Let down your milk to me , And I will give you a gown of silk , A gown of silk and a silver tee . ''
But the immortal rhyme have little effect , for the benevolent cow have already be milk , and have only half a gill to give the thirsty child .
`` Shoo !
get away !
you be an old cross patch , '' cry Nan , ungratefully , a she give up the attempt in despair ; and poor Molly walk on with a gentle gurgle of surprise and reproof .
`` Each can have a sip , and then we must take a walk .
We shall go to sleep if we do n't ; and lose people must n't sleep .
Do n't you know how Hannah Lee in the pretty story sleep under the snow and die ? ''
`` But there be n't any snow now , and it 's nice and warm , '' say Rob , who be not bless with as lively a fancy a Nan .
`` No matter , we will poke about a little , and call some more ; and then , if nobody come , we will hide under the bush , like Hop - ` o-my-thumb and his brother . ''
It be a very short walk , however , for Rob be so sleepy he could not get on , and tumble down so often that Nan entirely lose patience , be half distract by the responsibility she have take upon herself .
`` If you tumble down again , I 'll shake you , '' she say , lift the poor little man up very kindly a she speak , for Nan 's bark be much bad than her bite .
`` Please do n't .
It 's my boot they keep slip so ; '' and Rob manfully check the sob just ready to break out , add , with a plaintive patience that touch Nan 's heart , `` If the skeeters do n't bite me so , I could go to sleep till Marmar come . ''
`` Put your head on my lap , and I 'll cover you up with my apron ; I 'm not afraid of the night , '' say Nan , sit down and try to persuade herself that she do not mind the shadow nor the mysterious rustling all about her .
`` Wake me up when she come , '' say rob , and be fast asleep in five minute with his head in Nan 's lap under the pinafore .
The little girl sat for some fifteen minute , star about her with anxious eye , and feeling a if each second be an hour .
Then a pale light begin to glimmer over the hill-top and she say to herself , `` I guess the night be over and morning be come .
I 'd like to see the sun rise , so I 'll watch , and when it come up we can find our way right home . ''
But before the moon 's round face peep above the hill to destroy her hope , Nan have fall asleep , lean back in a little bower of tall fern , and be deep in a mid-summer night 's dream of fire-flies and blue apron , mountain of huckleberry , and Robby wipe away the tear of a black cow , who sob , `` I want to go home !
I want to go home ! ''
While the child be sleep , peacefully lull by the drowsy hum of many neighborly mosquito , the family at home be in a great state of agitation .
The hay-cart come at five , and all but Jack , Emil , Nan , and Rob be at the bar ready for it .
Franz drive instead of Silas , and when the boy tell him that the others be go home through the wood , he say , look ill-pleased , `` They ought to have leave Rob to ride , he will be tire out by the long walk . ''
`` It 's short that way , and they will carry him , '' say Stuffy , who be in a hurry for his supper .
`` You be sure Nan and Rob go with them ? ''
`` Of course they do ; I saw them get over the wall , and sing out that it be most five , and Jack call back that they be go the other way , '' explain Tommy .
`` Very well , pile in then , '' and away rattle the hay-cart with the tired child and the full pail .
Mrs. Jo look sober when she hear of the division of the party , and send Franz back with Toby to find and bring the little one home .
Supper be over , and the family sit about in the cool hall a usual , when Franz come trot back , hot , dusty , and anxious .
`` Have they come ? ''
he call out when half-way up the avenue .
`` No ! ''
and Mrs. Jo fly out of her chair look so alarmed that every one jump up and gather round Franz .
`` I ca n't find them anywhere , '' he begin ; but the word be hardly speak when a loud `` Hullo ! ''
startle them all , and the next minute Jack and Emil come round the house .
`` Where be Nan and Rob ? ''
cried Mrs. Jo , clutch Emil in a way that cause him to think his aunt have suddenly lose her wit .
`` I do n't know .
They come home with the others , do n't they ? ''
he answer , quickly .
`` No ; George and Tommy say they go with you . ''
`` Well , they do n't .
Have n't see them .
We take a swim in the pond , and come by the wood , '' say Jack , look alarmed , as well he might .
`` Call Mr. Bhaer , get the lantern , and tell Silas I want him . ''
That be all Mrs. Jo say , but they know what she mean , and fly to obey her order .
In ten minute , Mr. Bhaer and Silas be off to the wood , and Franz tear down the road on old Andy to search the great pasture .
Mrs. Jo catch up some food from the table , a little bottle of brandy from the medicine-closet , take a lantern , and bidding Jack and Emil come with her , and the rest not stir , she trot away on Toby , never stop for hat or shawl .
She hear some one running after her , but say not a word till , a she pause to call and listen , the light of her lantern shone on Dan 's face .
`` You here !
I tell Jack to come , '' she say , half-inclined to send him back , much a she need help .
`` I would n't let him ; he and Emil have n't have any supper , and I want to come more than they do , '' he say , take the lantern from her and smile up in her face with the steady look in his eye that make her feel a if , boy though he be , she have some one to depend on .
Off she jump , and order him on to Toby , in spite of his pleading to walk ; then they go on again along the dusty , solitary road , stop every now and then to call and hearken breathlessly for little voice to reply .
When they come to the great pasture , other light be already flit to and fro like will-o ' - the-wisps , and Mr. Bhaer 's voice be hear shouting , `` Nan !
Rob !
Rob !
Nan ! ''
in every part of the field .
Silas whistle and roar , Dan plunge here and there on Toby , who seem to understand the case , and go over the rough place with unusual docility .
Often Mrs. Jo hush them all , say , with a sob in her throat , `` The noise may frighten them , let me call ; Robby will know my voice ; '' and then she would cry out the beloved little name in every tone of tenderness , till the very echoes whisper it softly , and the wind seem to waft it willingly ; but still no answer come .
The sky be overcast now , and only brief glimpse of the moon be see , heat-lightening dart out of the dark cloud now and then , and a faint far-off rumble a of thunder tell that a summer-storm be brewing .
`` O my Robby !
my Robby ! ''
mourn poor Mrs. Jo , wander up and down like a pale ghost , while Dan keep beside her like a faithful fire-fly .
`` What shall I say to Nan 's father if she come to harm ?
Why do I ever trust my darling so far away ?
Fritz , do you hear any thing ? ''
and when a mournful , `` No '' come back , she wring her hand so despairingly that Dan spring down from Toby 's back , tie the bridle to the bar , and say , in his decided way , `` They may have go down the spring I 'm go to look . ''
He be over the wall and away so fast that she could hardly follow him ; but when she reach the spot , he lower the lantern and show her with joy the mark of little foot in the soft ground about the spring .
She fell down on her knee to examine the track , and then spring up , say eagerly , `` Yes ; that be the mark of my Robby 's little boot !
Come this way , they must have go on . ''
Such a weary search !
But now some inexplicable instinct seem to lead the anxious mother , for presently Dan utter a cry , and catch up a little shin object lying in the path .
It be the cover of the new tin pail , drop in the first alarm of be lose .
Mrs. Jo hug and kiss it a if it be a living thing ; and when Dan be about to utter a glad shout to bring the others to the spot , she stop him , say , a she hurry on , `` No , let me find them ; I let Rob go , and I want to give him back to his father all myself . ''
A little farther on Nan 's hat appear , and after pass the place more than once , they come at last upon the babe in the wood , both sound asleep .
Dan never forget the little picture on which the light of his lantern shone that night .
He think Mrs. Jo would cry out , but she only whisper , `` Hush ! ''
a she softly lift away the apron , and saw the little ruddy face below .
The berry-stained lip be half-open a the breath come and go , the yellow hair lay damp on the hot forehead , and both the chubby hand hold fast the little pail still full .
The sight of the childish harvest , treasure through all the trouble of that night for her , seem to touch Mrs. Jo to the heart , for suddenly she gather up her boy , and begin to cry over him , so tenderly , yet so heartily , that he wake up , and at first seem bewilder .
Then he remember , and hug her close , say with a laugh of triumph , `` I know you 'd come !
O Marmar !
I do want you so ! ''
For a moment they kiss and clung to one another , quite forget all the world ; for no matter how lose and soil and worn-out wandering son may be , mother can forgive and forget every thing a they fold them in their fostering arm .
Happy the son whose faith in his mother remain unchanged , and who , through all his wandering , have keep some filial token to repay her brave and tender love .
Dan meantime pick Nan out of her bush , and , with a gentleness none but Teddy ever saw in him before , he soothe her first alarm at the sudden waking , and wipe away her tear ; for Nan also begin to cry for joy , it be so good to see a kind face and feel a strong arm round her after what seem to her age of loneliness and fear .
`` My poor little girl , do n't cry !
You be all safe now , and no one shall say a word of blame to-night , '' say Mrs. Jo , take Nan into her capacious embrace , and cuddle both child a a hen might gather her lose chicken under her motherly wing .
`` It be my fault ; but I be sorry .
I try to take care of him , and I cover him up and let him sleep , and do n't touch his berry , though I be so hungry ; and I never will do it again truly , never , never , '' sob Nan , quite lose in a sea of penitence and thankfulness .
`` Call them now , and let u get home , '' say Mrs. Jo ; and Dan , get upon the wall , send a joyful word `` Found ! ''
ring over the field .
How the wandering light come dance from all side , and gather round the little group among the sweet fern bush !
Such a hugging , and kissing , and talk , and cry , a go on must have amaze the glowworm , and evidently delight the mosquito , for they hum frantically , while the little moth come in flock to the party , and the frog croak a if they could not express their satisfaction loudly enough .
Then they set out for home , a queer party , for Franz rode on to tell the news ; Dan and Toby lead the way ; then come Nan in the strong arm of Silas , who consider her `` the smart little baggage he ever saw , '' and tease her all the way home about her prank .
Mrs. Bhaer would let no one carry Rob but himself , and the little fellow , refresh by sleep , sit up , and chatter gayly , feel himself a hero , while his mother go beside him hold on to any pat of his precious little body that come handy , and never tire of hear him say , `` I know Marmar would come , '' or see him lean down to kiss her , and put a plump berry into her mouth , '' 'Cause he pick 'em all for her . ''
The moon shone out just a they reach the avenue , and all the boy come shout to meet them , so the lost lamb be bear in triumph and safety , and land in the dining-room , where the unromantic little thing demand supper instead of prefer kiss and caress .
They be set down to bread and milk , while the entire household stand round to gaze upon them .
Nan soon recover her spirit , and recount her peril with a relish now that they be all over .
Rob seem absorb in his food , but put down his spoon all of a sudden , and set up a doleful roar .
`` My precious , why do you cry ? ''
ask his mother , who still hang over him .
`` I 'm cry 'cause I be lose , '' bawl Rob , try to squeeze out a tear , and fail entirely .
`` But you be find now .
Nan say you do n't cry out in the field , and I be glad you be such a brave boy . ''
`` I be so busy be frighten I do n't have any time then .
But I want to cry now , 'cause I do n't like to be lose , '' explain Rob , struggle with sleep , emotion , and a mouthful of bread and milk .
The boy set up such a laugh at this funny way of make up for lose time , that Rob stop to look at them , and the merriment be so infectious , that after a surprised stare he burst out into a merry , `` Ha , ha ! ''
and beat his spoon upon the table a if he enjoy the joke immensely .
`` It be ten o'clock ; into bed , every man of you , '' say Mr. Bhaer , look at his watch .
`` And , thank Heaven !
there will be no empty one to-night , '' add Mrs. Bhaer , watch , with full eye , Robby go up in his father 's arm , and Nan escort by Daisy and Demi , who consider her the most interesting heroine of their collection .
`` Poor Aunt Jo be so tired she ought to be carry up herself , '' say gentle Franz , put his arm round her a she pause at the stair-foot , look quite exhaust by her fright and long walk .
`` Let 's make an arm-chair , '' propose Tommy .
`` No , thank you , my lad ; but somebody may lend me a shoulder to lean on , '' answer Mrs. Jo .
`` Me !
me ! ''
and half-a-dozen jostle one another , all eager to be choose , for there be something in the pale motherly face that touch the warm heart under the round jacket .
Seeing that they consider it an honor , Mrs. Jo give it to the one who have earn it , and nobody grumble when she put her arm on Dan 's broad shoulder , say , with a look that make him color up with pride and pleasure , `` He find the child ; so I think he must help me up . ''
Dan felt richly reward for his evening 's work , not only that he be choose from all the rest to go proudly up bear the lamp , but because Mrs. Jo say heartily , `` Good-night , my boy !
God bless you ! ''
a he leave her at her door .
`` I wish I be your boy , '' say Dan , who felt a if danger and trouble have somehow brought him near than ever to her .
`` You shall be my old son , '' and she seal her promise with a kiss that make Dan hers entirely .
Little Rob be all right next day , but Nan have a headache , and lay on Mother Bhaer 's sofa with cold-cream upon her scratched face .
Her remorse be quite go , and she evidently think be lose rather a fine amusement .
Mrs. Jo be not pleased with this state of thing , and have no desire to have her child lead from the path of virtue , or her pupil lie round loose in huckleberry field .
So she talk soberly to Nan , and try to impress upon her mind the difference between liberty and license , tell several tale to enforce her lecture .
She have not decide how to punish Nan , but one of these story suggest a way , and a Mrs. Jo like odd penalty , she try it .
`` All child run away , '' plead Nan , a if it be a natural and necessary a thing a measles or hoop cough .
`` Not all , and some who do run away do n't get find again , '' answer Mrs. Jo .
`` Did n't you do it yourself ? ''
ask Nan , whose keen little eye saw some trace of a kindred spirit in the serious lady who be sew so morally before her .
Mrs. Jo laugh , and own that she do .
`` Tell about it , '' demand Nan , feeling that she be get the upper hand in the discussion .
Mrs. Jo saw that , and sober down at once , say , with a remorseful shake of the head , `` I do it a good many time , and lead my poor mother rather a hard life with my prank , till she cure me . ''
`` How ? ''
and Nan sit up with a face full of interest .
`` I have a new pair of shoe once , and want to show them ; so , though I be tell not to leave the garden , I run away and be wander about all day .
It be in the city , and why I be n't kill I do n't know .
Such a time a I have .
I frolic in the park with dog , sail boat in the Back Bay with strange boy , din with a little Irish beggar-girl on salt fish and potato , and be find at last fast asleep on a door-step with my arm round a great dog .
It be late in the evening , and I be a dirty a a little pig , and the new shoe be wear out I have travel so far . ''
`` How nice ! ''
cry Nan , look all ready to go and do it herself .
`` It be not nice next day ; '' and Mrs. Jo try to keep her eye from betray how much she enjoy the memory of her early caper .
`` Did your mother whip you ? ''
ask Nan , curiously .
`` She never whip me but once , and then she beg my pardon , or I do n't think I ever should have forgive her , it hurt my feeling so much . ''
`` Why do she beg your pardon ?
my father do n't . ''
`` Because , when she have do it , I turn round and say , ` Well , you be mad yourself , and ought to be whip as much a me . '
She look at me a minute , then her anger all die out , and she say , a if ashamed , ` You be right , Jo , I be angry ; and why should I punish you for be in a passion when I set you such a bad example ?
Forgive me , dear , and let u try to help one another in a good way . '
I never forget it , and it do me more good than a dozen rod . ''
Nan sit thoughtfully turn the little cold-cream jar for a minute , and Mrs. Jo say nothing , but let that idea get well into the busy little mind that be so quick to see and feel what go on about her .
`` I like that , '' say Nan , presently , and her face look less elfish , with it sharp eye , inquisitive nose , and mischievous mouth .
`` What do your mother do to you when you run away that time ? ''
`` She tie me to the bed-post with a long string , so that I could not go out of the room , and there I stay all day with the little worn-out shoe hang up before me to remind me of my fault . ''
`` I should think that would cure anybody , '' cry Nan , who love her liberty above all thing .
`` It do cure me , and I think it will you , so I be go to try it , '' say Mrs. Jo , suddenly take a ball of strong twine out of a drawer in her work-table .
Nan look a if she be decidedly get the bad of the argument now , and sit feel much crestfallen while Mrs. Jo tie one end round her waist and the other to the arm of the sofa , say , a she finish , `` I do n't like to tie you up like a naughty little dog , but if you do n't remember any good than a dog , I must treat you like one . ''
`` I 'd just a lief be tie up a not I like to play dog ; '' and Nan put on a do n't - care face , and begin to growl and grovel on the floor .
Mrs. Jo take no notice , but leave a book or two and a handkerchief to hem , she go away , and leave Miss Nan to her own device .
This be not agreeable , and after sit a moment she try to untie the cord .
But it be fasten in the belt of her apron behind , so she begin on the knot at the other end .
It soon come loose , and , gather it up , Nan be about to get out of the window , when she hear Mrs. Jo say to somebody a she pass through the hall , `` No , I do n't think she will run away now ; she be an honorable little girl , and know that I do it to help her . ''
In a minute , Nan whisk back , tie herself up , and begin to sew violently .
Rob come in a moment after , and be so charmed with the new punishment , that he get a jump-rope and tether himself to the other arm of the sofa in the most social manner .
`` I get lost too , so I ought to be tie up as much a Nan , '' he explain to his mother when she saw the new captive .
`` I 'm not sure that you do n't deserve a little punishment , for you know it be wrong to go far away from the rest . ''
`` Nan take me , '' begin Rob , willing to enjoy the novel penalty , but not willing to take the blame .
`` You need n't have go .
You have get a conscience , though you be a little boy , and you must learn to mind it . ''
`` Well , my conscience do n't prick me a bit when she say ` Let 's get over the wall , ' '' answer Rob , quote one of Demi 's expression .
`` Did you stop to see if it do ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Then you can not tell . ''
`` I guess it 's such a little conscience that it do n't prick hard enough for me to feel it , '' add Rob , after think the matter over for a minute .
`` We must sharpen it up .
It 's bad to have a dull conscience ; so you may stay here till dinner-time , and talk about it with Nan .
I trust you both not to untie yourselves till I say the word . ''
`` No , we wo n't , '' say both , feel a certain sense of virtue in help to punish themselves .
For an hour they be very good , then they grow tire of one room , and long to get out .
Never have the hall seem so inviting ; even the little bedroom acquire a sudden interest , and they would gladly have go in and play tent with the curtain of the best bed .
The open window drive them wild because they could not reach them ; and the outer world seem so beautiful , they wonder how they ever find the heart to say it be dull .
Nan pin for a race round the lawn , and Rob remember with dismay that he have not feed his dog that morning , and wonder what poor Pollux would do .
They watch the clock , and Nan do some nice calculation in minute and second , while Rob learn to tell all the hour between eight and one so well that he never forget them .
It be madden to smell the dinner , to know that there be to be succotash and huckleberry pudding , and to feel that they would not be on the spot to secure good help of both .
When Mary Ann begin to set the table , they nearly cut themselves in two try to see what meat there be to be ; and Nan offer to help her make the bed , if she would only see that she have `` lot of sauce on her pudding . ''
When the boy come burst out of school , they find the child tug at their halter like a pair of restive little colt , and be much edify , as well a amuse , by the sequel to the exciting adventure of the night .
`` Untie me now , Marmar ; my conscience will prick like a pin next time , I know it will , '' say Rob , a the bell rang , and Teddy come to look at him with sorrowful surprise .
`` We shall see , '' answer his mother , set him free .
He take a good run down the hall , back through the dining-room , and bring up beside Nan , quite beam with virtuous satisfaction .
`` I 'll bring her dinner to her , may I ? ''
he ask , pity his fellow-captive .
`` That 's my kind little son !
Yes , pull out the table , and get a chair ; '' and Mrs. Jo hurry away to quell the ardor of the others , who be always in a rag state of hunger at noon .
Nan ate alone , and spend a long afternoon attach to the sofa .
Mrs. Bhaer lengthen her bond so that she could look out of the window ; and there she stand watch the boy play , and all the little summer creature enjoy their liberty .
Daisy have a picnic for the doll on the lawn , so that Nan might see the fun if she could not join in it .
Tommy turn his best somersault to console her ; Demi sit on the step read aloud to himself , which amuse Nan a good deal ; and Dan bring a little tree-toad to show her a the most delicate attention in his power .
But nothing atone for the loss of freedom ; and a few hour of confinement taught Nan how precious it be .
A good many thought go through the little head that lay on the window-sill during the last quiet hour when all the child go to the brook to see Emil 's new ship launch .
She be to have christen it , and have depend on smash a tiny bottle of currant-wine over the prow a it be name Josephine in honor of Mrs. Bhaer .
Now she have lose her chance , and Daisy would n't do it half so well .
Tears rise to her eye a she remember that it be all her own fault ; and she say aloud , address a fat bee who be roll about in the yellow heart of a rise just under the window , `` If you have run away , you 'd better go right home , and tell your mother you be sorry , and never do so any more . ''
`` I be glad to hear you give him such good advice , and I think he have take it , '' say Mrs. Jo , smile , a the bee spread his dusty wing and fly away .
Nan brush off a bright drop or two that shone on the window-sill , and nestle against her friend a she take her on her knee , add kindly for she have see the little drop , and know what they mean , `` Do you think my mother 's cure for run away a good one ? ''
`` Yes , ma'am , '' answer Nan , quite subdue by her quiet day .
`` I hope I shall not have to try it again . ''
`` I guess not ; '' and Nan look up with such an earnest little face that Mrs. Jo felt satisfied , and say no more , for she like to have her penalty do their own work , and do not spoil the effect by too much moralizing .
Here Rob appear , bear with infinite care what Asia call a `` sarcer pie , '' mean one bake in a saucer .
`` It 's make out of some of my berry , and I 'm go to give you half at supper-time , '' he announce with a flourish .
`` What make you , when I 'm so naughty ? ''
ask Nan , meekly .
`` Because we get lose together .
You ai n't go to be naughty again , be you ? ''
`` Never , '' say Nan , with great decision .
`` Oh , goody !
now let 's go and get Mary Ann to cut this for u all ready to eat ; it 's ` most tea time ; '' and Rob beckon with the delicious little pie .
Nan start to follow , then stop , and say , `` I forget , I ca n't go . ''
`` Try and see , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , who have quietly untie the cord sash while she have be talk .
Nan saw that she be free , and with one tempestuous kiss to Mrs. Jo , she be off like a humming-bird , follow by Robby , dribble huckleberry juice a he run .
CHAPTER XIII .
GOLDILOCKS After the last excitement peace descend upon Plumfield and reign unbroken for several week , for the elder boys felt that the loss of Nan and Rob lay at their door , and all become so paternal in their care that they be rather weary ; while the little one listen to Nan 's recital of her peril so many time , that they regard be lose a the great ill humanity be heir to , and hardly dare to put their little nose outside the great gate l night should suddenly descend upon them , and ghostly black cow come loom through the dusk .
`` It be too good to last , '' say Mrs. Jo ; for year of boy-culture have teach her that such lull be usually follow by outbreak of some sort , and when less wise woman would have think that the boy have become confirmed saint , she prepare herself for a sudden eruption of the domestic volcano .
One cause of this welcome calm be a visit from little Bess , whose parent lend her for a week while they be away with Grandpa Laurence , who be poorly .
The boy regard Goldilocks a a mixture of child , angel , and fairy , for she be a lovely little creature , and the golden hair which she inherit from her blonde mamma envelop her like a shin veil , behind which she smile upon her worshipper when gracious , and hide herself when offend .
Her father would not have it cut and it hang below her waist , so soft and fine and bright , that Demi insist that it be silk spun from a cocoon .
Every one praise the little Princess , but it do not seem to do her harm , only to teach her that her presence bring sunshine , her smile make answer smile on other face , and her baby grief fill every heart with tender sympathy .
Unconsciously , she do her young subject more good than many a real sovereign , for her rule be very gentle and her power be felt rather than see .
Her natural refinement make her dainty in all thing , and have a good effect upon the careless lad about her .
She would let no one touch her roughly or with unclean hand , and more soap be use during her visit than at any other time , because the boy consider it the high honor to be allow to carry her highness , and the deep disgrace to be repulse with the disdainful command , `` Do away , dirty boy ! ''
Lour voice displease her and quarrel frighten her ; so gentle tone come into the boyish voice a they address her , and squabble be promptly suppress in her presence by lookers-on if the principle could not restrain themselves .
She like to be wait on , and the big boy do her little errand without a murmur , while the small lad be her devoted slave in all thing .
They beg to be allow to draw her carriage , bear her berry-basket , or pass her plate at table .
No service be too humble , and Tommy and Ned come to blow before they could decide which should have the honor of black her little boot .
Nan be especially benefit by a week in the society of a well-bred lady , though such a very small one ; for Bess would look at her with a mixture of wonder and alarm in her great blue eye when the hoyden scream and romp ; and she shrink from her a if she think her a sort of wild animal .
Warm-hearted Nan felt this very much .
She say at first , `` Pooh !
I do n't care ! ''
But she do care , and be so hurt when Bess say , `` I love my tuzzin best , tause she be twiet , '' that she shake poor Daisy till her teeth chatter in her head , and then flee to the barn to cry dismally .
In that general refuge for perturbed spirit she find comfort and good counsel from some source or other .
Perhaps the swallow from their mud-built nest overhead twitter her a little lecture on the beauty of gentleness .
However that might have be , she come out quite subdue , and carefully search the orchard for a certain kind of early apple that Bess like because it be sweet and small and rosy .
Armed with this peace-offering , she approach the little Princess , and humbly present it .
To her great joy it be graciously accept , and when Daisy give Nan a forgiving kiss , Bess do likewise , a if she felt that she have be too severe , and desire to apologize .
After this they play pleasantly together , and Nan enjoy the royal favor for day .
To be sure she felt a little like a wild bird in a pretty cage at first , and occasionally have to slip out to stretch her wing in a long flight , or to sing at the top of her voice , where neither would disturb the plump turtle-dove Daisy , nor the dainty golden canary Bess .
But it do her good ; for , see how every one love the little Princess for her small grace and virtue , she begin to imitate her , because Nan want much love , and try hard to win it .
Not a boy in the house but felt the pretty child 's influence , and be improve by it without exactly know how or why , for baby can work miracle in the heart that love them .
Poor Billy find infinite satisfaction in star at her , and though she do not like it she permit without a frown , after she have be make to understand that he be not quite like the others , and on that account must be more kindly treat .
Dick and Dolly overwhelm her with willow whistle , the only thing they know how to make , and she accept but never use them .
Rob serve her like a little lover , and Teddy follow her like a pet dog .
Jack she do not like , because he be afflict with wart and have a harsh voice .
Stuffy displease her because he do not eat tidily , and George try hard not to gobble , that he might not disgust the dainty little lady opposite .
Ned be banish from court in utter disgrace when he be discover torment some unhappy field-mice .
Goldilocks could never forget the sad spectacle , and retire behind her veil when he approach , wave him away with an imperious little hand , and cry , in a tone of mingled grief and anger , `` No , I tar n't love him ; he tut the poor mouse ' little tail off , and they queeked ! ''
Daisy promptly abdicate when Bess come , and take the humble post of chief cook , while Nan be first maid of honor ; Emil be chancellor of the exchequer , and spend the public monies lavishly in get up spectacle that cost whole ninepence .
Franz be prime minister , and direct her affair of state , plan royal progress through the kingdom , and keep foreign power in order .
Demi be her philosopher , and fare much good than such gentleman usually do among crowned head .
Dan be her standing army , and defend her territory gallantly ; Tommy be court fool , and Nat a tuneful Rizzio to this innocent little Mary .
Uncle Fritz and Aunt Jo enjoy this peaceful episode , and look on at the pretty play in which the young folk unconsciously imitate their elder , without add the tragedy that be so apt to spoil the drama act on the large stage .
`` They teach u quite as much a we teach them , '' say Mr. Bhaer .
`` Bless the dear !
they never guess how many hint they give u a to the best way of manage them , '' answer Mrs. Jo .
`` I think you be right about the good effect of have girl among the boy .
Nan have stir up Daisy , and Bess be teach the little bear how to behave good than we can .
If this reformation go on a it have begin , I shall soon feel like Dr. Blimber with his model young gentleman , '' say Professor , laugh , a he saw Tommy not only remove his own hat , but knock off Ned 's also , a they enter the hall where the Princess be take a ride on the rocking-horse , attend by Rob and Teddy astride of chair , and play gallant knight to the best of their ability .
`` You will never be a Blimber , Fritz , you could n't do it if you try ; and our boy will never submit to the force process of that famous hot-bed .
No fear that they will be too elegant : American boy like liberty too well .
But good manner they can not fail to have , if we give them the kindly spirit that shin through the simple demeanor , make it courteous and cordial , like yours , my dear old boy . ''
`` Tut !
tut !
we will not compliment ; for if I begin you will run away , and I have a wish to enjoy this happy half hour to the end ; '' yet Mr. Bhaer look pleased with the compliment , for it be true , and Mrs. Jo felt that she have receive the best her husband could give her , by say that he find his truest rest and happiness in her society .
`` To return to the child : I have just have another proof of Goldilocks ' good influence , '' say Mrs. Jo , draw her chair nearer the sofa , where the Professor lay rest after a long day 's work in his various garden .
`` Nan hat sew , but for love of Bess have be toil half the afternoon over a remarkable bag in which to present a dozen of our love-apples to her idol when she go .
I praise her for it , and she say , in her quick way , ' I like to sew for other people ; it be stupid sew for myself . '
I take the hint , and shall give her some little shirt and apron for Mrs. Carney 's child .
She be so generous , she will sew her finger sore for them , and I shall not have to make a task of it . ''
`` But needlework be not a fashionable accomplishment , my dear . ''
`` Sorry for it .
My girl shall learn all I can teach them about it , even if they give up the Latin , Algebra , and half-a-dozen ology it be consider necessary for girl to muddle their poor brain over now-a-days .
Amy mean to make Bess an accomplished woman , but the dear 's mite of a forefinger have little prick on it already , and her mother have several specimen of needlework which she value more than the clay bird without a bill , that fill Laurie with such pride when Bess make it . ''
`` I also have proof of the Princess 's power , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , after he have watch Mrs. Jo sew on a button with an air of scorn for the whole system of fashionable education .
`` Jack be so unwilling to be class with Stuffy and Ned , a distasteful to Bess , that he come to me a little while ago , and ask me to touch his wart with caustic .
I have often propose it , and he never would consent ; but now he bore the smart manfully , and console his present discomfort by hope of future favor , when he can show her fastidious ladyship a smooth hand . ''
Mrs. Bhaer laugh at the story , and just then Stuffy come in to ask if he might give Goldilocks some of the bonbon his mother have send him .
`` She be not allow to eat sweetie ; but if you like to give her the pretty box with the pink sugar-rose in it , she would like it very much , '' say Mrs. Jo , unwilling to spoil this unusual piece of self-denial , for the `` fat boy '' seldom offer to share his sugar-plums .
`` Wo n't she eat it ?
I should n't like to make her sick , '' say Stuffy , eye the delicate sweetmeat lovingly , yet put it into the box .
`` Oh , no , she wo n't touch it , if I tell her it be to look at , not to eat .
She will keep it for week , and never think of taste it .
Can you do a much ? ''
`` I should hope so !
I 'm ever so much old than she be , '' cry Stuffy , indignantly .
`` Well , suppose we try .
Here , put your bonbon in this bag , and see how long you can keep them .
Let me count two heart , four red fish , three barley-sugar horse , nine almond , and a dozen chocolate drop .
Do you agree to that ? ''
ask sly Mrs. Jo , pop the sweetie into her little spool-bag .
`` Yes , '' say Stuffy , with a sigh ; and pocket the forbidden fruit , he go away to give Bess the present , that win a smile from her , and permission to escort her round the garden .
`` Poor Stuffy 's heart have really get the good of his stomach at last , and his effort will be much encourage by the reward Bess give him , '' say Mrs. Jo .
`` Happy be the man who can put temptation in his pocket and learn self-denial from so sweet a little teacher ! ''
add Mr. Bhaer , a the child pass the window , Stuffy 's fat face full of placid satisfaction , and Goldilocks survey her sugar-rose with polite interest , though she would have prefer a real flower with a `` pitty smell . ''
When her father come to take her home , a universal wail arose , and the parting gift shower upon her increase her luggage to such an extent that Mr. Laurie propose have out the big wagon to take it into town .
Every one have give her something ; and it be find difficult to pack white mouse , cake , a parcel of shell , apple , a rabbit kick violently in a bag , a large cabbage for his refreshment , a bottle of minnow , and a mammoth bouquet .
The farewell scene be move , for the Princess sit upon the hall-table , surround by her subject .
She kiss her cousin , and hold out her hand to the other boy , who shake it gently with various soft speech , for they be teach not to be ashamed of show their emotion .
`` Come again soon , little dear , '' whisper Dan , fasten his best green-and-gold beetle in her hat .
`` Do n't forget me , Princess , whatever you do , '' say the engaging Tommy , take a last stroke of the pretty hair .
`` I be come to your house next week , and then I shall see you , Bess , '' add Nat , a if he find consolation in the thought .
`` Do shake hand now , '' cry Jack , offer a smooth paw .
`` Here be two nice new one to remember u by , '' say Dick and Dolly , present fresh whistle , quite unconscious that seven old one have be privately deposit in the kitchen-stove .
`` My little precious !
I shall work you a book-mark right away , and you must keep it always , '' say Nan , with a warm embrace .
But of all the farewell , poor Billy 's be the most pathetic , for the thought that she be really go become so unbearable that he cast himself down before her , hug her little blue boot and blubber despairingly , `` Do n't go away !
oh , do n't ! ''
Goldilocks be so touch by this burst of feeling , that she lean over and lift the poor lad 's head , say , in her soft , little voice , `` Do n't cry , poor Billy !
I will tiss you and tum adain soon . ''
This promise console Billy , and he fell back beam with pride at the unusual honor confer upon him .
`` Me too !
me too ! ''
clamor Dick and Dolly , feel that their devotion deserve some return .
The others look a if they would like to join in the cry ; and something in the kind , merry face about her move the Princess to stretch out her arm and say , with reckless condescension , `` I will tiss evvybody ! ''
Like a swarm of bee about a very sweet flower , the affectionate lad surround their pretty playmate , and kiss her till she look like a little rise , not roughly , but so enthusiastically that nothing but the crown of her hat be visible for a moment .
Then her father rescue her , and she drive away still smile and wave her hand , while the boy sit on the fence scream like a flock of guinea-fowls , `` Come back !
come back ! ''
till she be out of sight .
They all miss her , and each dimly felt that he be well for have know a creature so lovely , delicate , and sweet ; for little Bess appeal to the chivalrous instinct in them a something to love , admire , and protect with a tender sort of reverence .
Many a man remember some pretty child who have make a place in his heart and keep her memory alive by the simple magic of her innocence ; these little men be just learn to feel this power , and to love it for it gentle influence , not ashamed to let the small hand lead them , nor to own their loyalty to womankind , even in the bud .
CHAPTER XIV .
DAMON AND PYTHIAS Mrs. Bhaer be right ; peace be only a temporary lull , a storm be brewing , and two day after Bess leave , a moral earthquake shake Plumfield to it centre .
Tommy 's hen be at the bottom of the trouble , for if they have not persist in lay so many egg , he could not have sell them and make such sum .
Money be the root of all evil , and yet it be such a useful root that we can not get on without it any more than we can without potato .
Tommy certainly could not , for he spend his income so recklessly , that Mr. Bhaer be oblige to insist on a savings-bank , and present him with a private one an imposing tin edifice , with the name over the door , and a tall chimney , down which the penny be to go , there to rattle temptingly till leave be give to open a sort of trap-door in the floor .
The house increase in weight so rapidly , that Tommy soon become satisfied with his investment , and plan to buy unheard-of treasure with his capital .
He keep account of the sum deposit , and be promise that he might break the bank as soon a he have five dollar , on condition that he spend the money wisely .
Only one dollar be need , and the day Mrs. Jo pay him for four dozen egg , he be so delighted , that he race off to the barn to display the bright quarter to Nat , who be also lay by money for the long-desired violin .
`` I wish I have 'em to put with my three dollar , then I 'd soon get enough to buy my fiddle , '' he say , look wistfully at the money .
`` P'raps I 'll lend you some .
I have n't decide yet what I 'll do with mine , '' say Tommy , toss up his quarter and catch them a they fell .
`` Hi !
boy !
come down to the brook and see what a jolly great snake Dan 's got ! ''
call a voice from behind the barn .
`` Come on , '' say Tommy ; and , lay his money inside the old winnowing machine , away he run , follow by Nat .
The snake be very interesting , and then a long chase after a lame crow , and it capture , so absorbed Tommy 's mind and time , that he never think of his money till he be safely in bed that night .
`` Never mind , no one but Nat know where it be , '' say the easy-going lad , and fell asleep untroubled by any anxiety about his property .
Next morning , just a the boy assemble for school , Tommy rush into the room breathlessly , demand , `` I say , who have get my dollar ? ''
`` What be you talk about ? ''
ask Franz .
Tommy explain , and Nat corroborate his statement .
Every one else declare they know nothing about it , and begin to look suspiciously at Nat , who get more and more alarmed and confused with each denial .
`` Somebody must have take it , '' say Franz , a Tommy shake his fist at the whole party , and wrathfully declare that , `` By thunder turtle !
if I get hold of the thief , I 'll give him what he wo n't forget in a hurry . ''
`` Keep cool , Tom ; we shall find him out ; thief always come to grief , '' say Dan , a one who know something of the matter .
`` May be some tramp slept in the barn and take it , '' suggest Ned .
`` No , Silas do n't allow that ; besides , a tramp would n't go look in that old machine for money , '' say Emil , with scorn .
`` Was n't it Silas himself ? ''
say Jack .
`` Well , I like that !
Old Si be as honest a daylight .
You would n't catch him touch a penny of ours , '' say Tommy , handsomely defend his chief admirer from suspicion .
`` Whoever it be have well tell , and not wait to be find out , '' say Demi , look a if an awful misfortune have befall the family .
`` I know you think it 's me , '' break out Nat , red and excite .
`` You be the only one who know where it be , '' say Franz .
`` I ca n't help it I do n't take it .
I tell you I do n't I do n't ! ''
cry Nat , in a desperate sort of way .
`` Gently , gently , my son !
What be all this noise about ? ''
and Mr. Bhaer walk in among them .
Tommy repeat the story of his loss , and , a he listen , Mr. Bhaer 's face grow graver and graver ; for , with all their fault and folly , the lad till now have be honest .
`` Take your seat , '' he say ; and , when all be in their place , he add slowly , a his eye go from face to face with a grieved look , that be hard to bear than a storm of word , `` Now , boy , I shall ask each one of you a single question , and I want an honest answer .
I be not go to try to frighten , bribe , or surprise the truth out of you , for every one of you have get a conscience , and know what it be for .
Now be the time to undo the wrong do to Tommy , and set yourselves right before u all .
I can forgive the yielding to sudden temptation much easy than I can deceit .
Do n't add a lie to the theft , but confess frankly , and we will all try to help you make u forget and forgive . ''
He pause a moment , and one might have hear a pin drop , the room be so still ; then slowly and impressively he put the question to each one , receive the same answer in vary tone from all .
Every face be flush and excite , so that Mr. Bhaer could not take color a a witness , and some of the little boy be so frighten that they stammer over the two short word a if guilty , though it be evident that they could not be .
When he come to Nat , his voice soften , for the poor lad look so wretched , Mr. Bhaer felt for him .
He believe him to be the culprit , and hop to save the boy from another lie , by win him to tell the truth without fear .
`` Now , my son , give me an honest answer .
Did you take the money ? ''
`` No , sir ! ''
and Nat look up at him imploringly .
As the word fell from his tremble lip , somebody hiss .
`` Stop that ! ''
cried Mr. Bhaer , with a sharp rap on his desk , a he look sternly toward the corner whence the sound come .
Ned , Jack , and Emil sit there , and the first two look ashamed of themselves , but Emil call out , `` It be n't me , uncle !
I 'd be ashamed to hit a fellow when he be down . ''
`` Good for you ! ''
cry Tommy , who be in a sad state of affliction at the trouble his unlucky dollar have make .
`` Silence ! ''
command Mr. Bhaer ; and when it come , he say soberly , `` I be very sorry , Nat , but evidence be against you , and your old fault make u more ready to doubt you than we should be if we could trust you a we do some of the boy , who never fib .
But mind , my child , I do not charge you with this theft ; I shall not punish you for it till I be perfectly sure , nor ask any thing more about it .
I shall leave it for you to settle with your own conscience .
If you be guilty , come to me at any hour of the day or night and confess it , and I will forgive and help you to amend .
If you be innocent , the truth will appear sooner or later , and the instant it do , I will be the first to beg your pardon for doubt you , and will so gladly do my best to clear your character before u all . ''
`` I do n't !
I do n't ! ''
sob Nat , with his head down upon his arm , for he could not bear the look of distrust and dislike which he read in the many eye fix on him .
`` I hope not . ''
Mr. Bhaer pause a minute , a if to give the culprit , whoever he might be , one more chance .
Nobody speak , however , and only sniff of sympathy from some of the little fellow break the silence .
Mr. Bhaer shake his head , and add , regretfully , `` There be nothing more to be do , then , and I have but one thing to say : I shall not speak of this again , and I wish you all to follow my example .
I can not expect you to feel a kindly toward any one whom you suspect a before this happen , but I do expect and desire that you will not torment the suspected person in any way , he will have a hard enough time without that .
Now go to your lesson . ''
`` Father Bhaer let Nat off too easy , '' mutter Ned to Emil , a they get out their book .
`` Hold your tongue , '' growl Emil , who felt that this event be a blot upon the family honor .
Many of the boy agree with Ned , but Mr. Bhaer be right , nevertheless ; and Nat would have be wise to confess on the spot and have the trouble over , for even the hard whipping he ever receive from his father be far easy to bear than the cold look , the avoidance , and general suspicion that meet him on all side .
If ever a boy be send to Coventry and keep there , it be poor Nat ; and he suffer a week of slow torture , though not a hand be raise against him , and hardly a word say .
That be the bad of it ; if they would only have talk it out , or even have thrash him all round , he could have stand it good than the silent distrust that make very face so terrible to meet .
Even Mrs. Bhaer 's showed trace of it , though her manner be nearly as kind a ever ; but the sorrowful anxious look in Father Bhaer 's eye cut Nat to the heart , for he love his teacher dearly , and know that he have disappoint all his hope by this double sin .
Only one person in the house entirely believe in him , and stand up for him stoutly against all the rest .
This be Daisy .
She could not explain why she trust him against all appearance , she only felt that she could not doubt him , and her warm sympathy make her strong to take his part .
She would not hear a word against him from any one , and actually slap her beloved Demi when he try to convince her that it must have be Nat , because no one else know where the money be .
`` Maybe the hen eat it ; they be greedy old thing , '' she say ; and when Demi laugh , she lose her temper , slap the amazed boy , and then burst out cry and run away , still declare , `` He do n't !
he do n't !
he do n't ! ''
Neither aunt nor uncle try to shake the child 's faith in her friend , but only hop her innocent instinct might prove sure , and love her all the good for it .
Nat often say , after it be over , that he could n't have stand it , if it have not be for Daisy .
When the others shun him , she cling to him close than ever , and turn her back on the rest .
She do not sit on the stair now when he solace himself with the old fiddle , but go in and sit beside him , listen with a face so full of confidence and affection , that Nat forget disgrace for a time , and be happy .
She ask him to help her with her lesson , she cook him marvelous mess in her kitchen , which he eat manfully , no matter what they be , for gratitude give a sweet flavor to the most distasteful .
She propose impossible game of cricket and ball , when she find that he shrink from join the other boy .
She put little nosegay from her garden on his desk , and try in every way to show that she be not a fair-weather friend , but faithful through evil as well a good repute .
Nan soon follow her example , in kindness at least ; curb her sharp tongue , and keep her scornful little nose from any demonstration of doubt or dislike , which be good of Madame Giddy-gaddy , for she firmly believe that Nat take the money .
Most of the boy let him severely alone , but Dan , though he say he despise him for be a coward , watch over him with a grim sort of protection , and promptly cuff any lad who dare to molest his mate or make him afraid .
His idea of friendship be as high a Daisy 's , and , in his own rough way , he live up to it a loyally .
Sitting by the brook one afternoon , absorb in the study of the domestic habit of water-spiders , he overhear a bit of conversation on the other side of the wall .
Ned , who be intensely inquisitive , have be on tenterhook to know certainly who be the culprit ; for of late one or two of the boy have begin to think that they be wrong , Nat be so steadfast in his denial , and so meek in his endurance of their neglect .
This doubt have tease Ned past bearing , and he have several time privately beset Nat with question , regardless of Mr. Bhaer 's express command .
Finding Nat read alone on the shady side of the wall , Ned could not resist stop for a nibble at the forbidden subject .
He have worry Nat for some ten minute before Dan arrive , and the first word the spider-student heard be these , in Nat 's patient , plead voice , `` Do n't , Ned !
oh , do n't !
I ca n't tell you because I do n't know , and it 's mean of you to keep nagging at me on the sly , when Father Bhaer tell you not to plague me .
You would n't dare to if Dan be round . ''
`` I ai n't afraid of Dan ; he 's nothing but an old bully .
Do n't believe but what he take Tom 's money , and you know it , and wo n't tell .
Come , now ! ''
`` He do n't , but , if he do , I would stand up for him , he have always be so good to me , '' say Nat , so earnestly that Dan forget his spider , and rise quickly to thank him , but Ned 's next word arrest him .
`` I know Dan do it , and give the money to you .
Should n't wonder if he get his living pick pocket before he come here , for nobody know any thing about him but you , '' say Ned , not believe his own word , but hop to get the truth out of Nat by make him angry .
He succeed in a part of his ungenerous wish , for Nat cry out , fiercely , `` If you say that again I 'll go and tell Mr. Bhaer all about it .
I do n't want to tell tale , but , by George !
I will , if you do n't let Dan alone . ''
`` Then you 'll be a sneak , as well a a liar and a thief , '' begin Ned , with a jeer , for Nat have bear insult to himself so meekly , the other do not believe he would dare to face the master just to stand up for Dan .
What he might have add I can not tell , for the word be hardly out of his mouth when a long arm from behind take him by the collar , and , jerk him over the wall in a most promiscuous way , land him with a splash in the middle of the brook .
`` Say that again and I 'll duck you till you ca n't see ! ''
cried Dan , look like a modern Colossus of Rhodes a he stand , with a foot on either side of the narrow stream , glare down at the discomfited youth in the water .
`` I be only in fun , '' say Ned .
`` You be a sneak yourself to badger Nat round the corner .
Let me catch you at it again , and I 'll souse you in the river next time .
Get up , and clear out ! ''
thundered Dan , in a rage .
Ned flee , drip , and his impromptu sitz-bath evidently do him good , for he be very respectful to both the boy after that , and seem to have leave his curiosity in the brook .
As he vanish Dan jump over the wall , and find Nat lie , a if quite wear out and bow down with his trouble .
`` He wo n't pester you again , I guess .
If he do , just tell me , and I 'll see to him , '' say Dan , try to cool down .
`` I do n't mind what he say about me so much , I 've get use to it , '' answer Nat sadly ; `` but I hate to have him pitch into you . ''
`` How do you know he be n't right ? ''
ask Dan , turn his face away .
`` What , about the money ? ''
cry Nat , look up with a startled air .
`` Yes . ''
`` But I do n't believe it !
You do n't care for money ; all you want be your old bug and thing , '' and Nat laugh , incredulously .
`` I want a butterfly net as much a you want a fiddle ; why should n't I steal the money for it as much a you ? ''
say Dan , still turn away , and busily punch hole in the turf with his stick .
`` I do n't think you would .
You like to fight and knock folk round sometimes , but you do n't lie , and I do n't believe you 'd steal , '' and Nat shake his head decidedly .
`` I 've do both .
I use to fib like fury ; it 's too much trouble now ; and I steal thing to eat out of garden when I run away from Page , so you see I be a bad lot , '' say Dan , speaking in the rough , reckless way which he have be learn to drop lately .
`` O Dan !
do n't say it 's you !
I 'd rather have it any of the other boy , '' cry Nat , in such a distressed tone that Dan look pleased , and show that he do , by turn round with a queer expression in his face , though he only answer , `` I wo n't say any thing about it .
But do n't you fret , and we 'll pull through somehow , see if we do n't . ''
Something in his face and manner give Nat a new idea ; and he say , press his hand together , in the eagerness of his appeal , `` I think you know who do it .
If you do , beg him to tell , Dan .
It 's so hard to have 'em all hate me for nothing .
I do n't think I can bear it much longer .
If I have any place to go to , I 'd run away , though I love Plumfield dearly ; but I 'm not brave and big like you , so I must stay and wait till some one show them that I have n't lie . ''
As he speak , Nat look so broken and despairing , that Dan could not bear it , and , mutter huskily , `` You wo n't wait long , '' and he walk rapidly away , and be see no more for hour .
`` What be the matter with Dan ? ''
ask the boy of one another several time during the Sunday that follow a week which seem a if it would never end .
Dan be often moody , but that day he be so sober and silent that no one could get any thing out of him .
When they walk he stray away from the rest , and come home late .
He take no part in the evening conversation , but sit in the shadow , so busy with his own thought that he scarcely seem to hear what be go on .
When Mrs. Jo show him an unusually good report in the Conscience Book , he look at it without a smile , and say , wistfully , `` You think I be get on , do n't you ? ''
`` Excellently , Dan !
and I be so pleased , because I always think you only need a little help to make you a boy to be proud of . ''
He look up at her with a strange expression in his black eye an expression of mingled pride and love and sorrow which she could not understand then but remember afterward .
`` I 'm afraid you 'll be disappoint , but I do try , '' he say , shut the book with no sign of pleasure in the page that he usually like so much to read over and talk about .
`` Are you sick , dear ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , with her hand on his shoulder .
`` My foot ache a little ; I guess I 'll go to bed .
Good-night , mother , '' he add , and hold the hand against his cheek a minute , then go away look a if he have say good-bye to something dear .
`` Poor Dan !
he take Nat 's disgrace to heart sadly .
He be a strange boy ; I wonder if I ever shall understand him thoroughly ? ''
say Mrs. Jo to herself , a she think over Dan 's late improvement with real satisfaction , yet felt that there be more in the lad than she have at first suspect .
One of thing which cut Nat most deeply be an act of Tommy 's , for after his loss Tommy have say to him , kindly , but firmly , `` I do n't wish to hurt you , Nat , but you see I ca n't afford to lose my money , so I guess we wo n't be partner any longer ; '' and with that Tommy rub out the sign , `` T. Bangs & Co. '' Nat have be very proud of the `` Co. , '' and have hunt egg industriously , keep his account all straight , and have add a good sum to his income from the sale of his share of stock in trade .
`` O Tom !
must you ? ''
he say , feel that his good name be go for ever in the business world if this be do .
`` I must , '' return Tommy , firmly .
`` Emil say that when one man ` bezzles -LRB- believe that 's the word it mean to take money and cut away with it -RRB- the property of a firm , the other one sue him , or pitch into him somehow , and wo n't have any thing more to do with him .
Now you have ` bezzled my property ; I sha n't sue you , and I sha n't pitch into you , but I must dissolve the partnership , because I ca n't trust you , and I do n't wish to fail . ''
`` I ca n't make you believe me , and you wo n't take my money , though I 'd be thankful to give all my dollar if you 'd only say you do n't think I take your money .
Do let me hunt for you , I wo n't ask any wage , but do it for nothing .
I know all the place , and I like it , '' plead Nat .
But Tommy shake his head , and his jolly round face look suspicious and hard a he say , shortly , `` Ca n't do it ; wish you do n't know the place .
Mind you do n't go hunt on the sly , and speculate in my egg . ''
Poor Nat be so hurt that he could not get over it .
He felt that he have lose not only his partner and patron , but that he be bankrupt in honor , and an outlaw from the business community .
No one trust his word , write or speak , in spite of his effort to redeem the past falsehood ; the sign be down , the firm break up , and he a ruined man .
The barn , which be the boy ' Wall Street , know him no more .
Cockletop and her sister cackle for him in vain , and really seem to take his misfortune to heart , for egg be few , and some of the biddy retire in disgust to new nest , which Tommy could not find .
`` They trust me , '' say Nat , when he hear of it ; and though the boy shout at the idea , Nat find comfort in it , for when one be down in the world , the confidence of even a speckled hen be most consoling .
Tommy take no new partner , however , for distrust have enter in , and poison the peace of his once confide soul .
Ned offer to join him , but he decline , say , with a sense of justice that do him honor , `` It might turn out that Nat do n't take my money , and then we could be partner again .
I do n't think it will happen , but I will give him a chance , and keep the place open a little longer . ''
Billy be the only person whom Bangs felt he could trust in his shop , and Billy be train to hunt egg , and hand them over unbroken , be quite satisfy with an apple or a sugar-plum for wage .
The morning after Dan 's gloomy Sunday , Billy say to his employer , a he display the result of a long hunt , `` Only two . ''
`` It get bad and bad ; I never saw such provoking old hen , '' growl Tommy , thinking of the day when he often have six to rejoice over .
`` Well , put 'em in my hat and give me a new bit of chalk ; I must mark 'em up , any way . ''
Billy mount a peck-measure , and look into the top of the machine , where Tommy keep his writing material .
`` There 's lot of money in here , '' say Billy .
`` No , there be n't .
Catch me leave my cash round again , '' return Tommy .
`` I see 'em one , four , eight , two dollar , '' persist Billy , who have not yet master the figure correctly .
`` What a jack you be ! ''
and Tommy hop up to get the chalk for himself , but nearly tumble down again , for there actually be four bright quarter in a row , with a bit of paper on them direct to `` Tom Bangs , '' that there might be no mistake .
`` Thunder turtle ! ''
cry Tommy , and seize them he dash into the house , bawl wildly , `` It 's all right !
Got my money !
Where 's Nat ? ''
He be soon find , and his surprise and pleasure be so genuine that few doubt his word when he now deny all knowledge of the money .
`` How could I put it back when I do n't take it ?
Do believe me now , and be good to me again , '' he say , so imploringly , that Emil slap him on the back , and declare he would for one .
`` So will I , and I 'm jolly glad it 's not you .
But who the dickens be it ? ''
say Tommy , after shake hand heartily with Nat .
`` Never mind , as long a it 's find , '' say Dan with his eye fix on Nat 's happy face .
`` Well , I like that !
I 'm not go to have my thing hook , and then bring back like the juggling man 's trick , '' cry Tommy , look at his money a if he suspect witchcraft .
`` We 'll find him out somehow , though he be sly enough to print this so his writing would n't be know , '' say Franz , examine the paper .
`` Demi print tip-top , '' put in Rob , who have not a very clear idea what the fuss be all about .
`` You ca n't make me believe it 's him , not if you talk till you be blue , '' say Tommy , and the others hoot at the mere idea ; for the little deacon , a they call him , be above suspicion .
Nat felt the difference in the way they speak of Demi and himself , and would have give all he have or ever hop to have to be so trusted ; for he have learn how easy it be to lose the confidence of others , how very , very hard to win it back , and truth become to him a precious thing since he have suffer from neglect it .
Mr. Bhaer be very glad one step have be take in the right direction , and wait hopefully for yet further revelation .
They come sooner than he expect , and in a way that surprise and grieve him very much .
As they sit at supper that night , a square parcel be hand to Mrs. Bhaer from Mrs. Bates , a neighbor .
A note accompany the parcel , and , while Mr. Bhaer read it , Demi pull off the wrapper , exclaim , a he saw it content , `` Why , it 's the book Uncle Teddy give Dan ! ''
`` The devil ! ''
broke from Dan , for he have not yet quite cure himself of swearing , though he try very hard .
Mr. Bhaer look up quickly at the sound .
Dan try to meet his eye , but could not ; his own fell , and he sit bite his lip , get redder and redder till he be the picture of shame .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer , anxiously .
`` I should have prefer to talk about this in private , but Demi have spoil that plan , so I may as well have it out now , '' say Mr. Bhaer , look a little stern , a he always do when any meanness or deceit come up for judgment .
`` The note be from Mrs. Bates , and she say that her boy Jimmy tell her he buy this book of Dan last Saturday .
She saw that it be worth much more than a dollar , and think there be some mistake , have send it to me .
Did you sell it , Dan ? ''
`` Yes , sir , '' be the slow answer .
`` Why ? ''
`` Wanted money . ''
`` For what ? ''
`` To pay somebody . ''
`` To whom do you owe it ? ''
`` Tommy . ''
`` Never borrow a cent of me in his life , '' cry Tommy , look scared , for he guess what be come now , and felt that on the whole he would have prefer witchcraft , for he admire Dan immensely .
`` Perhaps he take it , '' cry Ned , who owe Dan a grudge for the ducking , and , be a mortal boy , like to pay it off .
`` O Dan ! ''
cry Nat , clasp his hand , regardless of the bread and butter in them .
`` It be a hard thing to do , but I must have this settle , for I can not have you watch each other like detective , and the whole school disturb in this way , do you put that dollar in the barn this morning ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer .
Dan look him straight in the face , and answer steadily , `` Yes , I do . ''
A murmur go round the table , Tommy drop his mug with a crash ; Daisy cry out , `` I know it be n't Nat ; '' Nan begin to cry , and Mrs. Jo leave the room , look so disappointed , sorry , and ashamed that Dan could not bear it .
He hide his face in his hand a moment , then throw up his head , square his shoulder a if settle some load upon them , and say , with the dogged look , and half-resolute , half-reckless tone he have use when he first come , `` I do it ; now you may do what you like to me , but I wo n't say another word about it . ''
`` Not even that you be sorry ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , trouble by the change in him .
`` I ai n't sorry . ''
`` I 'll forgive him without ask , '' say Tommy , feel that it be hard somehow to see brave Dan disgrace than timid Nat .
`` Do n't want to be forgive , '' return Dan , gruffly .
`` Perhaps you will when you have think about it quietly by yourself , I wo n't tell you now how surprised and disappointed I be , but by and by I will come up and talk to you in your room . ''
`` Wo n't make any difference , '' say Dan , try to speak defiantly , but fail a he look at Mr. Bhaer 's sorrowful face ; and , take his word for a dismissal , Dan leave the room a if he find it impossible to stay .
It would have do him good if he have stay ; for the boy talk the matter over with such sincere regret , and pity , and wonder , it might have touch and win him to ask pardon .
No one be glad to find that it be he , not even Nat ; for , spite of all his fault , and they be many , every one like Dan now , because under his rough exterior lay some of the manly virtue which we most admire and love .
Mrs. Jo have be the chief prop , as well a cultivator , of Dan ; and she take it sadly to heart that her last and most interesting boy have turn out so ill .
The theft be bad , but the lie about it , and allow another to suffer so much from an unjust suspicion be bad ; and most discouraging of all be the attempt to restore the money in an underhand way , for it show not only a want of courage , but a power of deceit that bode ill for the future .
Still more try be his steady refusal to talk of the matter , to ask pardon , or express any remorse .
Days pass ; and he go about his lesson and his work , silent , grim , and unrepentant .
As if take warn by their treatment of Nat , he ask no sympathy of any one , reject the advance of the boy , and spend his leisure hour roam about the field and wood , try to find playmate in the bird and beast , and succeed good than most boy would have do , because he know and love them so well .
`` If this go on much long , I 'm afraid he will run away again , for he be too young to stand a life like this , '' say Mr. Bhaer , quite deject at the failure of all his effort .
`` A little while ago I should have be quite sure that nothing would tempt him away , but now I be ready of any thing , he be so change , '' answer poor Mrs. Jo , who mourn over her boy and could not be comfort , because he shun her more than any one else , and only look at her with the half-fierce , half-imploring eye of a wild animal caught in a trap , when she try to talk to him alone .
Nat follow him about like a shadow , and Dan do not repulse him as rudely a he do others , but say , in his blunt way , `` You be all right ; do n't worry about me .
I can stand it good than you do . ''
`` But I do n't like to have you all alone , '' Nat would say , sorrowfully .
`` I like it ; '' and Dan would tramp away , stifle a sigh sometimes , for he be lonely .
Passing through the birch grove one day , he come up on several of the boy , who be amuse themselves by climb up the tree and swing down again , a they slender elastic stem bend till their top touch the ground .
Dan pause a minute to watch the fun , without offer to join in it , and a he stand there Jack take his turn .
He have unfortunately choose too large a tree ; for when he swing off , it only bend a little way , and leave him hang at a dangerous height .
`` Go back ; you ca n't do it ! ''
call Ned from below .
Jack try , but the twig slip from his hand , and he could not get his leg round the trunk .
He kick , and squirm , and clutch in vain , then give it up , and hung breathless , say helplessly , `` Catch me !
help me !
I must drop ! ''
`` You 'll be kill if you do , '' cry Ned , frighten out of his wit .
`` Hold on ! ''
shouted Dan ; and up the tree he go , crash his way along till he nearly reach Jack , whose face look up at him , full of fear and hope .
`` You 'll both come down , '' say Ned , dance with excitement on the slope underneath , while Nat hold out his arm , in the wild hope of break the fall .
`` That 's what I want ; stand from under , '' answer Dan , coolly ; and , a he speak , his added weight bend the tree many foot nearer the earth .
Jack drop safely ; but the birch , lighten of half it load , fly up again so suddenly , that Dan , in the act of swing round to drop foot foremost , lose his hold and fell heavily .
`` I 'm not hurt , all right in a minute , '' he say , sit up , a little pale and dizzy , a the boy gather round him , full of admiration and alarm .
`` You 're a trump , Dan , and I 'm ever so much oblige to you , '' cry Jack , gratefully .
`` It be n't any thing , '' mutter Dan , rise slowly .
`` I say it be , and I 'll shake hand with you , though you be , '' Ned check the unlucky word on his tongue , and hold out his hand , feeling that it be a handsome thing on his part .
`` But I wo n't shake hand with a sneak ; '' and Dan turn his back with a look of scorn , that cause Ned to remember the brook , and retire with undignified haste .
`` Come home , old chap ; I 'll give you a lift ; '' and Nat walk away with him leave the others to talk over the feat together , to wonder when Dan would `` come round , '' and to wish one and all that Tommy 's `` confound money have be in Jericho before it make such a fuss . ''
When Mr. Bhaer come into school next morning , he look so happy , that the boy wonder what have happen to him , and really think he have lose his mind when they saw him go straight to Dan , and , take him by both hand , say all in one breath , a he shake them heartily , `` I know all about it , and I beg your pardon .
It be like you to do it , and I love you for it , though it 's never right to tell lie , even for a friend . ''
`` What be it ? ''
cry Nat , for Dan say not a word , only lift up his head , a if a weight of some sort have fall off his back .
`` Dan do not take Tommy 's money ; '' and Mr. Bhaer quite shout it , he be so glad .
`` Who do ? ''
cry the boy in a chorus .
Mr. Bhaer point to one empty seat , and every eye follow his finger , yet no one speak for a minute , they be so surprised .
`` Jack go home early this morning , but he leave this behind him ; '' and in the silence Mr. Bhaer read the note which he have find tie to his door-handle when he rise .
`` I take Tommy 's dollar .
I be peek in through a crack and saw him put it there .
I be afraid to tell before , though I want to .
I do n't care so much about Nat , but Dan be a trump , and I ca n't stand it any longer .
I never spend the money ; it 's under the carpet in my room , right behind the washstand .
I 'm awful sorry .
I be go home , and do n't think I shall ever come back , so Dan may have my thing .
`` JACK '' It be not an elegant confession , be badly write , much blot , and very short ; but it be a precious paper to Dan ; and , when Mr. Bhaer pause , the boy go to him , say , in a rather broken voice , but with clear eye , and the frank , respectful manner they have try to teach him , `` I 'll say I 'm sorry now , and ask you to forgive me , sir . ''
`` It be a kind lie , Dan , and I ca n't help forgive it ; but you see it do no good , '' say Mr. Bhaer , with a hand on either shoulder , and a face full of relief and affection .
`` It keep the boy from plague Nat .
That 's what I do it for .
It make him right down miserable .
I do n't care so much , '' explain Dan , a if glad to speak out after his hard silence .
`` How could you do it ?
You be always so kind to me , '' falter Nat , feel a strong desire to hug his friend and cry .
Two girlish performance , which would have scandalize Dan to the last degree .
`` It 's all right now , old fellow , so do n't be a fool , '' he say , swallow the lump in his throat , and laugh out a he have not do for week .
`` Does Mrs. Bhaer know ? ''
he ask , eagerly .
`` Yes ; and she be so happy I do n't know what she will do to you , '' begin Mr. Bhaer , but get no farther , for here the boy come crowd about Dan in a tumult of pleasure and curiosity ; but before he have answer more than a dozen question , a voice cry out , `` Three cheer for Dan ! ''
and there be Mrs. Jo in the doorway wave her dish-towel , and look a if she want to dance a jig for joy , a she use to do when a girl .
`` Now then , '' cry Mr. Bhaer , and lead off a rousing hurrah , which startle Asia in the kitchen , and make old Mr. Roberts shake his head a he drive by , say , `` Schools be not what they be when I be young ! ''
Dan stand it pretty well for a minute , but the sight of Mrs. Jo 's delight upset him , and he suddenly bolt across the hall into the parlor , whither she instantly follow , and neither be see for half an hour .
Mr. Bhaer find it very difficult to calm his excited flock ; and , see that lesson be an impossibility for a time , he catch their attention by tell them the fine old story of the friend whose fidelity to one another have make their name immortal .
The lad listen and remember , for just then their heart be touch by the loyalty of a humbler pair of friend .
The lie be wrong , but the love that prompt it and the courage that bore in silence the disgrace which belong to another , make Dan a hero in their eye .
Honesty and honor have a new meaning now ; a good name be more precious than gold ; for once lose money could not buy it back ; and faith in one another make life smooth and happy a nothing else could do .
Tommy proudly restore the name of the firm ; Nat be devote to Dan ; and all the boy try to atone to both for former suspicion and neglect .
Mrs. Jo rejoice over her flock , and Mr. Bhaer be never tire of tell the story of his young Damon and Pythias .
CHAPTER XV .
IN THE WILLOW The old tree saw and hear a good many little scene and confidence that summer , because it become the favorite retreat of all the child , and the willow seem to enjoy it , for a pleasant welcome always meet them , and the quiet hour spend in it arm do them all good .
It have a great deal of company one Saturday afternoon , and some little bird report what go on there .
First come Nan and Daisy with their small tub and bit of soap , for now and then they be seize with a tidy fit , and wash up all their doll ' clothes in the brook .
Asia would not have them `` slop round '' in her kitchen , and the bath-room be forbidden since Nan forget to turn off the water till it overflowed and come gently drip down through the ceiling .
Daisy go systematically to work , wash first the white and then the colored thing , rinse them nicely , and hang them to dry on a cord fasten from one barberry-bush to another , and pin them up with a set of tiny clothes-pins Ned have turn for her .
But Nan put all her little thing to soak in the same tub , and then forget them while she collect thistledown to stuff a pillow for Semiramis , Queen of Babylon , a one doll be name .
This take some time , and when Mrs. Giddy-gaddy come to take out her clothes , deep green stain appear on every thing , for she have forget the green silk lining of a certain cape , and it color have soak nicely into the pink and blue gown , the little chemise , and even the best ruffled petticoat .
`` Oh me !
what a mess ! ''
sigh Nan .
`` Lay them on the grass to bleach , '' say Daisy , with an air of experience .
`` So I will , and we can sit up in the nest and watch that they do n't blow away . ''
The Queen of Babylon 's wardrobe be spread forth upon the bank , and , turn up their tub to dry , the little washerwomen climb into the nest , and fell to talk , a lady be apt to do in the pause of domestic labor .
`` I 'm go to have a feather-bed to go with my new pillow , '' say Mrs. Giddy-gaddy , a she transfer the thistledown from her pocket to her handkerchief , lose about half in the process .
`` I would n't ; Aunt Jo say feather-beds be n't healthy .
I never let my child sleep on any thing but a mattress , '' return Mrs. Shakespeare Smith , decidedly .
`` I do n't care ; my child be so strong they often sleep on the floor , and do n't mind it , '' -LRB- which be quite true -RRB- .
`` I ca n't afford nine mattress , and I like to make bed myself . ''
`` Wo n't Tommy charge for the feather ? ''
`` May be he will , but I sha n't pay him , and he wo n't care , '' return Mrs. G. , take a base advantage of the well-known good nature of T. Bangs .
`` I think the pink will fade out of that dress sooner than the green mark will , '' observe Mrs. S. , look down from her perch , and change the subject , for she and her gossip differ on many point , and Mrs. Smith be a discreet lady .
`` Never mind ; I 'm tired of doll , and I guess I shall put them all away and attend to my farm ; I like it rather well than play house , '' say Mrs. G. , unconsciously express the desire of many old lady , who can not dispose of their family so easily however .
`` But you must n't leave them ; they will die without their mother , '' cry the tender Mrs. Smith .
`` Let 'em die then ; I 'm tired of fuss over baby , and I 'm go to play with the boy ; they need me to see to 'em , '' return the strong-minded lady .
Daisy know nothing about woman 's right ; she quietly take all she want , and no one deny her claim , because she do not undertake what she could not carry out , but unconsciously use the all-powerful right of her own influence to win from others any privilege for which she have prove her fitness .
Nan attempt all sort of thing , undaunted by direful failure , and clamor fiercely to be allow to do every thing that the boy do .
They laugh at her , hustle her out of the way , and protest against her meddling with their affair .
But she would not be quench and she would be hear , for her will be strong , and she have the spirit of a rampant reformer .
Mrs. Bhaer sympathize with her , but tire to curb her frantic desire for entire liberty , show her that she must wait a little , learn self-control , and be ready to use her freedom before she ask for it .
Nan have meek moment when she agree to this , and the influence at work upon her be gradually take effect .
She no longer declare that she would be engine-driver or a blacksmith , but turn her mind to farming , and find in it a vent for the energy bottle up in her active little body .
It do not quite satisfy her , however ; for her sage and sweet marjoram be dumb thing , and could not thank her for her care .
She want something human to love , work for , and protect , and be never happy than when the little boy bring their cut finger , bump head , or bruise joint for her to `` mend-up . ''
Seeing this , Mrs. Jo propose that she should learn how to do it nicely , and Nursey have an apt pupil in bandaging , plastering , and fomenting .
The boy begin to call her `` Dr. Giddy-gaddy , '' and she like it so well that Mrs. Jo one day say to the Professor , `` Fritz , I see what we can do for that child .
She want something to live for even now , and will be one of the sharp , strong , discontented woman if she do not have it .
Do n't let u snub her restless little nature , but do our best to give her the work she like , and by and by persuade her father to let her study medicine .
She will make a capital doctor , for she have courage , strong nerve , a tender heart , and an intense love and pity for the weak and suffering . ''
Mr. Bhaer smile at first , but agree to try , and give Nan an herb-garden , teach her the various heal property of the plant she tend , and let her try their virtue on the child in the little illness they have from time to time .
She learn fast , remember well , and show a sense and interest most encouraging to her Professor , who do not shut his door in her face because she be a little woman .
She be think of this , a she sit in the willow that day , and when Daisy say in her gentle way , `` I love to keep house , and mean to have a nice one for Demi when we grow up and live together . ''
Nan reply with decision `` Well , I have n't get any brother , and I do n't want any house to fuss over .
I shall have an office , with lot of bottle and drawer and pestle thing in it , and I shall drive round in a horse and chaise and cure sick people .
That will be such fun . ''
`` Ugh !
how can you bear the bad-smelling stuff and the nasty little powder and castor-oil and senna and hive syrup ? ''
cry Daisy , with a shudder .
`` I sha n't have to take any , so I do n't care .
Besides , they make people well , and I like to cure folk .
Did n't my sage-tea make Mother Bhaer 's headache go away , and my hop stop Ned 's toothache in five hour ?
So now ! ''
`` Shall you put leech on people , and cut off leg and pull out teeth ? ''
ask Daisy , quake at the thought .
`` Yes , I shall do every thing ; I do n't care if the people be all smash up , I shall mend them .
My grandpa be a doctor , and I saw him sew a great cut in a man 's cheek , and I hold the sponge , and be n't frighten a bit , and Grandpa say I be a brave girl . ''
`` How could you ?
I 'm sorry for sick people , and I like to nurse them , but it make my legs shake so I have to run away .
I 'm not a brave girl , '' sigh Daisy .
`` Well , you can be my nurse , and cuddle my patient when I have give them the physic and cut off their leg , '' say Nan , whose practice be evidently to be of the heroic kind .
`` Ship ahoy !
Where be you , Nan ? ''
call a voice from below .
`` Here we be . ''
`` Ay , ay ! ''
say the voice , and Emil appear hold one hand in the other , with his face pucker up a if in pain .
`` Oh , what 's the matter ? ''
cry Daisy , anxiously .
`` A confounded splinter in my thumb .
Ca n't get it out .
Take a pick at it , will you , Nanny ? ''
`` It 's in very deep , and I have n't any needle , '' say Nan , examine a tarry thumb with interest .
`` Take a pin , '' say Emil , in a hurry .
`` No , it 's too big and have n't get a sharp point . ''
Here Daisy , who have dive into her pocket , present a neat little housewife with four needle in it .
`` You be the Posy who always have what we want , '' say Emil ; and Nan resolve to have a needle-book in her own pocket henceforth , for just such case a this be always occur in her practice .
Daisy cover her eye , but Nan probe and pick with a steady hand , while Emil give direction not down in any medical work or record .
`` Starboard now !
Steady , boy , steady !
Try another tack .
Heave ho !
there she be ! ''
`` Suck it , '' order the Doctor , survey the splinter with an experienced eye .
`` Too dirty , '' respond the patient , shake his bleeding hand .
`` Wait ; I 'll tie it up if you have get a handkerchief . ''
`` Have n't ; take one of those rag down there . ''
`` Gracious !
no , indeed ; they be doll 's clothes , '' cry Daisy , indignantly .
`` Take one of mine ; I 'd like to have you , '' say Nan ; and swing himself down , Emil catch up the first `` rag '' he saw .
It happen to be the frilled skirt ; but Nan tear it up without a murmur ; and when the royal petticoat be turn into a neat little bandage , she dismiss her patient with the command , `` Keep it wet , and let it alone ; then it will heal right up , and not be sore . ''
`` What do you charge ? ''
ask the Commodore , laugh .
`` Nothing ; I keep a ` spensary ; that be a place where poor people be doctor free gratis for nothing , '' explain Nan , with an air .
`` Thank you , Doctor Giddy-gaddy .
I 'll always call you in when I come to grief ; '' and Emil depart , but look back to say for one good turn deserve another `` Your dud be blow away , Doctor . ''
Forgiving the disrespectful word , `` dud , '' the lady hastily descend , and , gather up their wash , retire to the house to fire up the little stove , and go to iron .
A passing breath of air shake the old willow , a if it laugh softly at the childish chatter which go on in the nest , and it have hardly compose itself when another pair of bird alight for a confidential twitter .
`` Now , I 'll tell you the secret , '' begin Tommy , who be `` swellin ' wisibly '' with the importance of his news .
`` Tell away , '' answer Nat , wish he have bring his fiddle , it be so shady and quiet here .
`` Well , we fellows be talk over the late interesting case of circumstantial evidence , '' say Tommy , quote at random from a speech Franz have make at the club , `` and I propose give Dan something to make up for our suspect him , to show our respect , and so on , you know something handsome and useful , that he could keep always and be proud of .
What do you think we choose ? ''
`` A butterfly-net ; he want one ever so much , '' say Nat , look a little disappointed , for he mean to get it himself .
`` No , sir ; it 's to be a microscope , a real swell one , that we see what-do-you-call - 'em s in water with , and star , and ant-eggs , and all sort of game , you know .
Wo n't it be a jolly good present ? ''
say Tommy , rather confuse microscope and telescope in his remark .
`` Tip-top !
I 'm so glad !
Wo n't it cost a heap , though ? ''
cry Nat , feel that his friend be begin to be appreciate .
`` Of course it will ; but we be all go to give something .
I head the paper with my five dollar ; for if it be do at all , it must be do handsome . ''
`` What !
all of it ?
I never do see such a generous chap a you be ; '' and Nat beam upon him with sincere admiration .
`` Well , you see , I 've be so bother with my property , that I 'm tired of it , and do n't mean to save up any more , but give it away a I go along , and then nobody will envy me , or want to steal it , and I sha n't be suspect folk and worry about my old cash , '' reply Tommy , on whom the care and anxiety of a millionaire weigh heavily .
`` Will Mr. Bhaer let you do it ? ''
`` He think it be a first-rate plan , and say that some of the best men he know prefer to do good with their money instead of lay it up to be squabble over when they die . ''
`` Your father be rich ; do he do that way ? ''
`` I 'm not sure ; he give me all I want ; I know that much .
I 'm go to talk to him about it when I go home .
Anyhow , I shall set him a good example ; '' and Tommy be so serious , that Nat do not dare to laugh , but say , respectfully , `` You will be able to do ever so much with your money , wo n't you ? ''
`` So Mr. Bhaer say , and he promise to advise me about useful way of spending it .
I 'm go to begin with Dan ; and next time I get a dollar or so , I shall do something for Dick , he 's such a good little chap , and only have a cent a week for pocket-money .
He ca n't earn much , you know ; so I 'm go to kind of see to him ; '' and good-hearted Tommy quite long to begin .
`` I think that 's a beautiful plan , and I 'm not go to try to buy a fiddle any more ; I 'm go to get Dan his net all myself , and if there be any money left , I 'll do something to please poor Billy .
He 's fond of me , and though he be n't poor , he 'd like some little thing from me , because I can make out what he want good than the rest of you . ''
And Nat fell to wonder how much happiness could be get out of his precious three dollar .
`` So I would .
Now come and ask Mr. Bhaer if you ca n't go in town with me on Monday afternoon , so you can get the net , while I get the microscope .
Franz and Emil be go too , and we 'll have a jolly time lark round among the shop . ''
The lad walk away arm-in-arm , discuss the new plan with droll importance , yet begin already to feel the sweet satisfaction which come to those who try , no matter how humbly , to be earthly providence to the poor and helpless , and gild their mite with the gold of charity before it be lay up where thief can not break through and steal .
`` Come up and rest while we sort the leaf ; it 's so cool and pleasant here , '' say Demi , a he and Dan come saunter home from a long walk in the wood .
`` All right ! ''
answered Dan , who be a boy of few word , and up they go .
`` What make birch leaf shake so much more than the others ? ''
ask inquire Demi , who be always sure of an answer from Dan .
`` They be hung differently .
Do n't you see the stem where it join the leaf be sort of pinched one way , and where it join the twig , it be pinch another .
This make it waggle with the least bit of wind , but the elm leave hang straight , and keep stiller . ''
`` How curious !
will this do so ? ''
and Demi hold up a sprig of acacia , which he have break from a little tree on the lawn , because it be so pretty .
`` No ; that belong to the sort that shut up when you touch it .
Draw your finger down the middle of the stem , and see if the leaf do n't curl up , '' say Dan , who be examine a bit of mica .
Demi try it , and presently the little leaf do fold together , till the spray show a single instead of a double line of leaf .
`` I like that ; tell me about the others .
What do these do ? ''
ask Demi , take up a new branch .
`` Feed silk-worms ; they live on mulberry leaf , till they begin to spin themselves up .
I be in a silk-factory once , and there be room full of shelf all cover with leaf , and worm eat them so fast that it make a rustle .
Sometimes they eat so much they die .
Tell that to Stuffy , '' and Dan laugh , a he take up another bit of rock with a lichen on it .
`` I know one thing about this mullein leaf : the fairy use them for blanket , '' say Demi , who have not quite give up his faith in the existence of the little folk in green .
`` If I have a microscope , I 'd show you something pretty than fairy , '' say Dan , wonder if he should ever own that coveted treasure .
`` I know an old woman who use mullein leave for a night-cap because she have face-ache .
She sew them together , and wear it all the time . ''
`` How funny !
be she your grandmother ? ''
`` Never have any .
She be a queer old woman , and live alone in a little tumble-down house with nineteen cat .
Folks call her a witch , but she be n't , though she look like an old rag-bag .
She be real kind to me when I live in that place , and use to let me get warm at her fire when the folk at the poorhouse be hard on me . ''
`` Did you live in a poorhouse ? ''
`` A little while .
Never mind that I do n't mean to speak of it ; '' and Dan stop short in his unusual fit of communicativeness .
`` Tell about the cat , please , '' say Demi , feel that he have ask an unpleasant question , and sorry for it .
`` Nothing to tell ; only she have a lot of 'em , and keep 'em in a barrel night ; and I use to go and tip over the barrel sometimes , and let 'em out all over the house , and then she 'd scold , and chase 'em and put 'em in again , spit and yowl like fury . ''
`` Was she good to them ? ''
ask Demi , with a hearty child 's laugh , pleasant to hear .
`` Guess she be .
Poor old soul !
she take in all the lose and sick cat in the town ; and when anybody want one they go to Marm Webber , and she let 'em pick any kind and color they want , and only ask ninepence , she be glad to have her pussy get a good home . ''
`` I should like to see Marm Webber .
Could I , if I go to that place ? ''
`` She 's dead .
All my folk be , '' say Dan , briefly .
`` I 'm sorry ; '' and Demi sit silent a minute , wonder what subject would be safe to try next .
He felt delicate about speaking of the departed lady , but be very curious about the cat , and could not resist ask softly , `` Did she cure the sick one ? ''
`` Sometimes .
One have a broken leg , and she tie it up to a stick , and it get well ; and another have fit , and she doctor it with yarbs till it be cure .
But some of 'em die , and she bury 'em ; and when they could n't get well , she kill 'em easy . ''
`` How ? ''
ask Demi , feel that there be a peculiar charm about this old woman , and some sort of joke about the cat , because Dan be smile to himself .
`` A kind lady , who be fond of cat , tell her how , and give her some stuff , and send all her own pussy to be kill that way .
Marm use to put a sponge wet with ether , in the bottom of an old boot , then poke pus in head downwards .
The ether put her to sleep in a jiffy , and she be drown in warm water before she wake up . ''
`` I hope the cat do n't feel it .
I shall tell Daisy about that .
You have know a great many interesting thing , have n't you ? ''
ask Demi , and fell to meditate on the vast experience of a boy who have run away more than once , and take care of himself in a big city .
`` Wish I have n't sometimes . ''
`` Why ?
Do n't remember them feel good ? ''
`` No . ''
`` It 's very singular how hard it be to manage your mind , '' say Demi , clasp his hand round his knee , and look up at the sky a if for information upon his favorite topic .
`` Devilish hard no , I do n't mean that ; '' and Dan bite his lip , for the forbidden word slip out in spite of him , and he want to be more careful with Demi than with any of the other boy .
`` I 'll play I do n't hear it , '' say Demi ; `` and you wo n't do it again , I 'm sure . ''
`` Not if I can help it .
That 's one of the thing I do n't want to remember .
I keep peg away , but it do n't seem to do much good ; '' and Dan look discourage .
`` Yes , it do .
You do n't say half so many bad word a you use to ; and Aunt Jo be please , because she say it be a hard habit to break up . ''
`` Did she ? ''
and Dan cheer up a bit .
`` You must put swear away in your fault-drawer , and lock it up ; that 's the way I do with my badness . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
ask Dan , look a if he find Demi almost as amusing a a new sort of cockchafer or beetle .
`` Well , it 's one of my private play , and I 'll tell you , but I think you 'll laugh at it , '' begin Demi , glad to hold forth on this congenial subject .
`` I play that my mind be a round room , and my soul be a little sort of creature with wing that live in it .
The wall be full of shelf and drawer , and in them I keep my thought , and my goodness and badness , and all sort of thing .
The good I keep where I can see them , and the bad I lock up tight , but they get out , and I have to keep put them in and squeeze them down , they be so strong .
The thought I play with when I be alone or in bed , and I make up and do what I like with them .
Every Sunday I put my room in order , and talk with the little spirit that live there , and tell him what to do .
He be very bad sometimes , and wo n't mind me , and I have to scold him , and take him to Grandpa .
He always make him behave , and be sorry for his fault , because Grandpa like this play , and give me nice thing to put in the drawer , and tell me how to shut up the naughties .
Had n't you good try that way ?
It 's a very good one ; '' and Demi look so earnest and full of faith , that Dan do not laugh at his quaint fancy , but say , soberly , `` I do n't think there be a lock strong enough to keep my badness shut up .
Any way my room be in such a clutter I do n't know how to clear it up . ''
`` You keep your drawer in the cabinet all spandy nice ; why ca n't you do the others ? ''
`` I ai n't use to it .
Will you show me how ? ''
and Dan look a if incline to try Demi 's childish way of keep a soul in order .
`` I 'd love to , but I do n't know how , except to talk a Grandpa do .
I ca n't do it good like him , but I 'll try . ''
`` Do n't tell any one ; only now and then we 'll come here and talk thing over , and I 'll pay you for it by tell all I know about my sort of thing .
Will that do ? ''
and Dan hold out his big , rough hand .
Demi give his smooth , little hand readily , and the league be make ; for in the happy , peaceful world where the young boy live , lion and lamb play together , and little child innocently teach their elder .
`` Hush ! ''
say Dan , point toward the house , a Demi be about to indulge in another discourse on the best way of get badness down , and keep it down ; and peep from their perch , they saw Mrs. Jo stroll slowly along , read a she go , while Teddy trot behind her , drag a little cart upside down .
`` Wait till they see u , '' whisper Demi , and both sat still a the pair come nearer , Mrs. Jo so absorbed in her book that she would have walk into the brook if Teddy have not stop her by say , `` Marmar , I wanter fis . ''
Mrs. Jo put down the charming book which she have be try to read for a week , and look about her for a fishing-pole , be use to make toy out of nothing .
Before she have break one from the hedge , a slender willow bough fell at her foot ; and , look up , she saw the boy laugh in the nest .
`` Up !
up ! ''
cry Teddy , stretch his arm and flap his skirt a if about to fly .
`` I 'll come down and you come up .
I must go to Daisy now ; '' and Demi depart to rehearse the tale of the nineteen cat , with the excite boot-and-barrel episode .
Teddy be speedily whisk up ; and then Dan say , laugh , `` Come , too ; there 's plenty of room .
I 'll lend you a hand . ''
Mrs. Jo glance over her shoulder , but no one be in sight ; and rather like the joke of the thing , she laugh back , say , `` Well , if you wo n't mention it , I think I will ; '' and with two nimble step be in the willow .
`` I have n't climb a tree since I be marry .
I use to be very fond of it when I be a girl , '' she say , look well-pleased with her shady perch .
`` Now , you read if you want to , and I 'll take care of Teddy , '' propose Dan , begin to make a fishing-rod for impatient Baby .
`` I do n't think I care about it now .
What be you and Demi at up here ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , think , from the sober look on Dan 's face , that he have something on his mind .
`` Oh !
we be talk .
I 'd be tell him about leaf and thing , and he be tell me some of his queer play .
Now , then , Major , fish away ; '' and Dan finish off his work by put a big blue fly on the bent pin which hung at the end of the cord he have tie to the willow-rod .
Teddy lean down from the tree , and be soon wrapt up in watch for the fish which he felt sure would come .
Dan hold him by his little petticoat , lest he should take a `` header '' into the brook , and Mrs. Jo soon win him to talk by do so herself .
`` I be so glad you tell Demi about ` leaf and thing ; ' it be just what he need ; and I wish you would teach him , and take him to walk with you . ''
`` I 'd like to , he be so bright ; but -- '' `` But what ? ''
`` I do n't think you 'd trust me . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` Well , Demi be so kind of precious , and so good , and I 'm such a bad lot , I think you 'd keep him away from me . ''
`` But you be not a ` bad lot , ' a you say ; and I do trust you , Dan , entirely , because you honestly try to improve , and do good and good every week . ''
`` Really ? ''
and Dan look up at her with the cloud of despondency lift from his face .
`` Yes ; do n't you feel it ? ''
`` I hop so , but I do n't know . ''
`` I have be wait and watch quietly , for I think I 'd give you a good trial first ; and if you stand it , I would give you the best reward I have .
You have stand it well ; and now I 'm go to trust not only Demi , but my own boy , to you , because you can teach them some thing good than any of u . ''
`` Can I ? ''
and Dan look amaze at the idea .
`` Demi have live among old people so much that he need just what you have knowledge of common thing , strength , and courage .
He think you be the brave boy he ever saw , and admire your strong way of do thing .
Then you know a great deal about natural object , and can tell him more wonderful tale of bird , and bee , and leave , and animal , than his story-books give him ; and , be true , these story will teach and do him good .
Do n't you see now how much you can help him , and why I like to have him with you ? ''
`` But I swear sometimes , and might tell him something wrong .
I would n't mean to , but it might slip out , just a ` devil ' do a few minute ago , '' say Dan , anxious to do his duty , and let her know his shortcoming .
`` I know you try not to say or do any thing to harm the little fellow , and here be where I think Demi will help you , because he be so innocent and wise in his small way , and have what I be try to give you , dear , good principle .
It be never too early to try and plant them in a child , and never too late to cultivate them in the most neglected person .
You be only boys yet ; you can teach one another .
Demi will unconsciously strengthen your moral sense , you will strengthen his common sense , and I shall feel a if I have help you both . ''
Words could not express how pleased and touched Dan be by this confidence and praise .
No one have ever trust him before , no one have care to find out and foster the good in him , and no one have suspect how much there be hide away in the breast of the neglected boy , go fast to ruin , yet quick to feel and value sympathy and help .
No honor that he might earn hereafter would ever be half so precious a the right to teach his few virtue and small store of learn to the child whom he most respect ; and no more powerful restraint could have be impose upon him than the innocent companion confide to his care .
He find courage now to tell Mrs. Jo of the plan already make with Demi , and she be glad that the first step have be so naturally take .
Every thing seem to be work well for Dan , and she rejoice over him , because it have seem a hard task , yet , work on with a firm belief in the possibility of reformation in far old and bad subject than he , there have come this quick and hopeful change to encourage her .
He felt that he have friend now and a place in the world , something to live and work for , and , though he say little , all that be best and brave in a character make old by a hard experience respond to the love and faith bestow on him , and Dan 's salvation be assure .
Their quiet talk be interrupt by a shout of delight from Teddy , who , to the surprise of every one , do actually catch a trout where no trout have be see for year .
He be so enchanted with his splendid success that he insist on show his prize to the family before Asia cook it for supper ; so the three descend and go happily away together , all satisfy with the work of that half hour .
Ned be the next visitor to the tree , but he only make a short stay , sit there at his ease while Dick and Dolly catch a pailful of grasshopper and cricket for him .
He want to play a joke on Tommy , and intend to tuck up a few dozen of the lively creature in his bed , so that when Bangs get in he would speedily tumble out again , and pass a portion of the night in chase `` hopper-grasses '' round the room .
The hunt be soon over , and have pay the hunter with a few peppermint apiece Ned retire to make Tommy 's bed .
For an hour the old willow sigh and sung to itself , talk with the brook , and watch the lengthening shadow a the sun go down .
The first rosy color be touch it graceful branch when a boy come steal up the avenue , across the lawn , and , spy Billy by the brook-side , go to him , say , in a mysterious tone , `` Go and tell Mr. Bhaer I want to see him down here , please .
Do n't let any one hear . ''
Billy nod and run off , while the boy swung himself up into the tree , and sit there look anxious , yet evidently feel the charm of the place and hour .
In five minute , Mr. Bhaer appear , and , step up on the fence , lean into the nest , say , kindly , `` I be glad to see you , Jack ; but why not come in and meet u all at once ? ''
`` I want to see you first , please , sir .
Uncle make me come back .
I know I do n't deserve any thing , but I hope the fellow wo n't be hard upon me . ''
Poor Jack do not get on very well , but it be evident that he be sorry and ashamed , and want to be receive as easily a possible ; for his Uncle have thrash him well and scold him soundly for follow the example he himself set .
Jack have beg not to be send back , but the school be cheap , and Mr. Ford insist , so the boy return as quietly a possible , and take refuge behind Mr. Bhaer .
`` I hope not , but I ca n't answer for them , though I will see that they be not unjust .
I think , a Dan and Nat have suffer so much , be innocent , you should suffer something , be guilty .
Do n't you ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , pity Jack , yet feel he deserve punishment for a fault which have so little excuse .
`` I suppose so , but I send Tommy 's money back , and I say I be sorry , be n't that enough ? ''
say Jack , rather sullenly ; for the boy who could do so mean a thing be not brave enough to bear the consequence well .
`` No ; I think you should ask pardon of all three boy , openly and honestly .
You can not expect them to respect and trust you for a time , but you can live down this disgrace if you try , and I will help you .
Stealing and lie be detestable sin , and I hope this will be a lesson to you .
I be glad you be ashamed , it be a good sign ; bear it patiently , and do your best to earn a good reputation . ''
`` I 'll have an auction , and sell off all my good dirt cheap , '' say Jack , show his repentance in the most characteristic way .
`` I think it would be good to give them away , and begin on a new foundation .
Take ` Honesty be the best policy ' for your motto , and live up to it in act , and word , and think , and though you do n't make a cent of money this summer , you will be a rich boy in the autumn , '' say Mr. Bhaer , earnestly .
It be hard , but Jack consent , for he really felt that cheat do n't pay , and want to win back the friendship of the boy .
His heart clung to his possession , and he groan inwardly at the thought of actually give away certain precious thing .
Asking pardon publicly be easy compare to this ; but then he begin to discover that certain other thing , invisible , but most valuable , be good property than knife , fish-hooks , or even money itself .
So he decide to buy up a little integrity , even at a high price , and secure the respect of his playmate , though it be not a salable article .
`` Well , I 'll do it , '' he say , with a sudden air of resolution , which please Mr. Bhaer .
`` Good !
and I 'll stand by you .
Now come and begin at once . ''
And Father Bhaer lead the bankrupt boy back into the little world , which receive him coldly at first , but slowly warm to him , when he show that he have profit by the lesson , and be sincerely anxious to go into a good business with a new stock-in-trade .
CHAPTER XVI .
TAMING THE COLT `` What in the world be that boy do ? ''
say Mrs. Jo to herself , a she watch Dan run round the half-mile triangle a if for a wager .
He be all alone , and seem possess by some strange desire to run himself into a fever , or break his neck ; for , after several round , he try leap wall , and turn somersault up the avenue , and finally drop down on the grass before the door a if exhaust .
`` Are you train for a race , Dan ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo , from the window where she sit .
He look up quickly , and stop pant to answer , with a laugh , `` No ; I 'm only work off my steam . ''
`` Ca n't you find a cool way of do it ?
You will be ill if you tear about so in such warm weather , '' say Mrs. Jo , laugh also , a she throw him out a great palm-leaf fan .
`` Ca n't help it .
I must run somewhere , '' answer Dan , with such an odd expression in his restless eye , that Mrs. Jo be trouble , and ask , quickly , `` Is Plumfield get too narrow for you ? ''
`` I would n't mind if it be a little big .
I like it though ; only the fact be the devil get into me sometimes , and then I do want to bolt . ''
The word seem to come against his will , for he look sorry the minute they be speak , and seem to think he deserve a reproof for his ingratitude .
But Mrs. Jo understand the feeling , and though sorry to see it , she could not blame the boy for confess it .
She look at him anxiously , see how tall and strong he have grow , how full of energy his face be , with it eager eye and resolute mouth ; and remember the utter freedom he have know for year before , she felt how even the gentle restraint of this home would weigh upon him at time when the old lawless spirit stir in him .
`` Yes , '' she say to herself , `` my wild hawk need a large cage ; and yet , if I let him go , I be afraid he will be lose .
I must try and find some lure strong enough to keep him safe . ''
`` I know all about it , '' she add , aloud .
`` It be not ` the devil , ' a you call it , but the very natural desire of all young people for liberty .
I use to feel just so , and once , I really do think for a minute that I would bolt . ''
`` Why do n't you ? ''
say Dan , come to lean on the low window-ledge , with an evident desire to continue the subject .
`` I know it be foolish , and love for my mother keep me at home . ''
`` I have n't get any mother , '' begin Dan .
`` I think you have now , '' say Mrs. Jo , gently stroke the rough hair off his hot forehead .
`` You be no end good to me , and I ca n't ever thank you enough , but it just be n't the same , be it ? ''
and Dan look up at her with a wistful , hungry look that go to her heart .
`` No , dear , it be not the same , and never can be .
I think an own mother would have be a great deal to you .
But a that can not be , you must try to let me fill her place .
I fear I have not do all I ought , or you would not want to leave me , '' she add , sorrowfully .
`` Yes , you have ! ''
cried Dan , eagerly .
`` I do n't want to go , and I wo n't go , if I can help it ; but every now and then I feel a if I must burst out somehow .
I want to run straight ahead somewhere , to smash something , or pitch into somebody .
Do n't know why , but I do , and that 's all about it . ''
Dan laugh a he speak , but he mean what he say , for he knit his black brow , and bring down his fist on the ledge with such force , that Mrs. Jo 's thimble fly off into the grass .
He bring it back , and a she take it she hold the big , brown hand a minute , say , with a look that show the word cost her something , `` Well , Dan , run if you must , but do n't run very far ; and come back to me soon , for I want you very much . ''
He be rather take aback by this unexpected permission to play truant , and somehow it seem to lessen his desire to go .
He do not understand why , but Mrs. Jo do , and , know the natural perversity of the human mind , count on it to help her now .
She felt instinctively that the more the boy be restrain the more he would fret against it ; but leave him free , and the mere sense of liberty would content him , join to the knowledge that his presence be dear to those whom he love best .
It be a little experiment , but it succeed , for Dan stand silent a moment , unconsciously pick the fan to piece and turn the matter over in his mind .
He felt that she appeal to his heart and his honor , and own that he understand it by say presently , with a mixture of regret and resolution in his face , `` I wo n't go yet awhile , and I 'll give you fair warn before I bolt .
That 's fair , be n't it ? ''
`` Yes , we will let it stand so .
Now , I want to see if I ca n't find some way for you to work off your steam well than run about the place like a mad dog , spoil my fan , or fight with the boy .
What can we invent ? ''
and while Dan try to repair the mischief he have do , Mrs. Jo rack her brain for some new device to keep her truant safe until he have learn to love his lesson well .
`` How would you like to be my express-man ? ''
she say , a a sudden thought pop into her head .
`` Go into town , and do the errand ? ''
ask Dan , look interested at once .
`` Yes ; Franz be tire of it , Silas can not be spar just now , and Mr. Bhaer have no time .
Old Andy be a safe horse , you be a good driver , and know your way about the city as well a a postman .
Suppose you try it , and see if it wo n't do most as well to drive away two or three time a week a to run away once a month . ''
`` I 'd like it ever so much , only I must go alone and do it all myself .
I do n't want any of the other fellow bother round , '' say Dan , take to the new idea so kindly that he begin to put on business air already .
`` If Mr. Bhaer do not object you shall have it all your own way .
I suppose Emil will growl , but he can not be trust with horse , and you can .
By the way , to-morrow be market-day , and I must make out my list .
You have good see that the wagon be in order , and tell Silas to have the fruit and vegetable ready for mother .
You will have to be up early and get back in time for school , can you do that ? ''
`` I 'm always an early bird , so I do n't mind , '' and Dan slung on his jacket with despatch .
`` The early bird get the worm this time , I 'm sure , '' say Mrs. Jo , merrily .
`` And a jolly good worm it be , '' answer Dan , a he go laugh away to put a new lash to the whip , wash the wagon , and order Silas about with all the importance of a young express-man .
`` Before he be tire of this I will find something else and have it ready when the next restless fit come on , '' say Mrs. Jo to herself , a she write her list with a deep sense of gratitude that all her boy be not Dans .
Mr. Bhaer do not entirely approve of the new plan , but agree to give it a trial , which put Dan on his mettle , and cause him to give up certain wild plan of his own , in which the new lash and the long hill be to have bear a part .
He be up and away very early the next morning , heroically resist the temptation to race with the milkman go into town .
Once there , he do his errand carefully , to Mr. Bhaer 's surprise and Mrs. Jo 's great satisfaction .
The Commodore do growl at Dan 's promotion , but be pacify by a superior padlock to his new boat-house , and the thought that seaman be mean for high honor than drive market-wagons and do family errand .
So Dan fill his new office well and contentedly for week , and say no more about bolting .
But one day Mr. Bhaer find him pummel Jack , who be roar for mercy under his knee .
`` Why , Dan , I think you have give up fighting , '' he say , a he go to the rescue .
`` We ai n't fight , we be only wrestle , '' answer Dan , leave off reluctantly .
`` It look very much like it , and feel like it , hey , Jack ? ''
say Mr. Bhaer , a the defeated gentleman get upon his leg with difficulty .
`` Catch me wrestle with him again .
He 's most knocked my head off , '' snarl Jack , hold on to that portion of his frame a if it really be loose upon his shoulder .
`` The fact be , we begin in fun , but when I get him down I could n't help pound him .
Sorry I hurt you , old fellow , '' explain Dan , look rather ashamed of himself .
`` I understand .
The longing to pitch into somebody be so strong you could n't resist .
You be a sort of Berserker , Dan , and something to tussle with be as necessary to you a music be to Nat , '' say Mr. Bhaer , who know all about the conversation between the boy and Mrs. Jo .
`` Ca n't help it .
So if you do n't want to be pound you 'd better keep out of the way , '' answer Dan , with a warn look in his black eye that make Jack sheer off in haste .
`` If you want something to wrestle with , I will give you a tough specimen than Jack , '' say Mr. Bhaer ; and , lead the way to the wood-yard , he point out certain root of tree that have be grub up in the spring , and have be lie there wait to be split .
`` There , when you feel inclined to maltreat the boy , just come and work off your energy here , and I 'll thank you for it . ''
`` So I will ; '' and , seize the axe that lay near Dan haul out a tough root , and go at it so vigorously , that the chip fly far and wide , and Mr. Bhaer flee for his life .
To his great amusement , Dan take him at his word , and be often see wrestle with the ungainly knot , hat and jacket off , red face , and wrathful eye ; for he get into royal rage over some of his adversary , and swore at them under his breath till he have conquer them , when he exult , and march off to the shed with an armful of gnarled oak-wood in triumph .
He blister his hand , tire his back , and dull the axe , but it do him good , and he get more comfort out of the ugly root than any one dreamed , for with each blow he work off some of the pent-up power that would otherwise have be expend in some less harmless way .
`` When this be go I really do n't know what I shall do , '' say Mrs. Jo to herself , for no inspiration come , and she be at the end of her resource .
But Dan find a new occupation for himself , and enjoy it some time before any one discover the cause of his contentment .
A fine young horse of Mr. Laurie 's be keep at Plumfield that summer , run loose in a large pasture across the brook .
The boy be all interested in the handsome , spirited creature , and for a time be fond of watch him gallop and frisk with his plumey tail fly , and his handsome head in the air .
But they soon get tire of it , and leave Prince Charlie to himself .
All but Dan , he never tire of look at the horse , and seldom fail to visit him each day with a lump of sugar , a bit of bread , or an apple to make him welcome .
Charlie be grateful , accept his friendship , and the two love one another a if they felt some tie between them , inexplicable but strong .
In whatever part of the wide field he might be , Charlie always come at full speed when Dan whistle at the bar , and the boy be never happy than when the beautiful , fleet creature put it head on his shoulder , look up at him with fine eye full of intelligent affection .
`` We understand one another without any palaver , do n't we , old fellow ? ''
Dan would say , proud of the horse 's confidence , and , so jealous of his regard , that he tell no one how well the friendship prosper , and never ask anybody but Teddy to accompany him on these daily visit .
Mr. Laurie come now and then to see how Charlie get on , and spoke of have him broken to harness in the autumn .
`` He wo n't need much taming , he be such a gentle , fine-tempered brute .
I shall come out and try him with a saddle myself some day , '' he say , on one of these visit .
`` He let me put a halter on him , but I do n't believe he will bear a saddle even if you put it on , '' answer Dan , who never fail to be present when Charlie and his master meet .
`` I shall coax him to bear it , and not mind a few tumble at first .
He have never be harshly treat , so , though he will be surprise at the new performance , I think he wo n't be frighten , and his antic will do no harm . ''
`` I wonder what he would do , '' say Dan to himself , a Mr. Laurie go away with the Professor , and Charlie return to the bar , from which he have retire when the gentleman come up .
A daring fancy to try the experiment take possession of the boy a he sit on the topmost rail with the glossy back temptingly near him .
Never thinking of danger , he obey the impulse , and while Charlie unsuspectingly nibble at the apple he hold , Dan quickly and quietly take his seat .
He do not keep it long , however , for with an astonished snort , Charlie rear straight up , and deposit Dan on the ground .
The fall do not hurt him , for the turf be soft , and he jump up , say , with a laugh , `` I do it anyway !
Come here , you rascal , and I 'll try it again . ''
But Charlie decline to approach , and Dan leave him resolve to succeed in the end ; for a struggle like this suit him exactly .
Next time he take a halter , and have get it on , he play with the horse for a while , lead him to and fro , and put him through various antic till he be a little tired ; then Dan sit on the wall and give him bread , but watch his chance , and get a good grip of the halter , slip on to his back .
Charlie try the old trick , but Dan hold on , have have practice with Toby , who occasionally have an obstinate fit , and try to shake off his rider .
Charlie be both amazed and indignant ; and after prance for a minute , set off at a gallop , and away go Dan heel over head .
If he have not belong to the class of boy who go through all sort of danger unscathed , he would have break his neck ; a it be , he get a heavy fall , and lay still collect his wit , while Charlie tore round the field toss his head with every sign of satisfaction at the discomfiture of his rider .
Presently it seem to occur to him that something be wrong with Dan , and , be of a magnanimous nature , he go to see what the matter be .
Dan let him sniff about and perplex himself for a few minute ; then he look up at him , say , as decidedly a if the horse could understand , `` You think you have beat , but you be mistake , old boy ; and I 'll ride you yet see if I do n't . ''
He try no more that day , but soon after attempt a new method of introduce Charlie to a burden .
He strap a folded blanket on his back , and then let him race , and rear , and roll , and fume as much a he like .
After a few fit of rebellion Charlie submit , and in a few day permit Dan to mount him , often stop short to look round , a if he say , half patiently , half reproachfully , `` I do n't understand it , but I suppose you mean no harm , so I permit the liberty . ''
Dan pat and praise him , and take a short turn every day , get frequent fall , but persist in spite of them , and long to try a saddle and bridle , but not dare to confess what he have do .
He have his wish , however , for there have be a witness of his prank who say a good word for him .
`` Do you know what that chap have ben doin ' lately ? ''
ask Silas of his master , one evening , a he receive his order for the next day .
`` Which boy ? ''
say Mr. Bhaer , with an air of resignation , expect some sad revelation .
`` Dan , he 's ben a break the colt , sir , and I wish I may die if he ai n't do it , '' answer Silas , chuckle .
`` How do you know ? ''
`` Wal , I kinder keep an eye on the little feller , and most gen ` lly know what they 're up to ; so when Dan kep go off to the paster , and come home black and blue , I mistrust that suthing be goin ' on .
I do n't say nothin ' , but I crep up into the barn chamber , and from there I see him goin ' through all manner of game with Charlie .
Blest if he war n't throw time and agin , and knock round like a bag o ' meal .
But the pluck of that boy do beat all , and he ` peared to like it , and kep on a ef bound to beat . ''
`` But , Silas , you should have stop it the boy might have be kill , '' say Mr. Bhaer , wonder what freak his irrepressibles would take into their head next .
`` S'pose I oughter ; but there war n't no real danger , for Charlie ai n't no trick , and be as pretty a tempered horse a ever I see .
Fact be , I could n't bear to spile sport , for ef there 's any thing I do admire it 's grit , and Dan be chock full on ` t .
But now I know he 's hankerin ' after a saddle , and yet wo n't take even the old one on the sly ; so I just think I 'd up and tell , and may be you 'd let him try what he can do .
Mr. Laurie wo n't mind , and Charlie 's all the good for ` t. '' `` We shall see ; '' and off go Mr. Bhaer to inquire into the matter .
Dan own up at once , and proudly prove that Silas be right by show off his power over Charlie ; for by dint of much coaxing , many carrot , and infinite perseverance , he really have succeed in rid the colt with a halter and blanket .
Mr. Laurie be much amuse , and well pleased with Dan 's courage and skill , and let him have a hand in all future performance ; for he set about Charlie 's education at once , say that he be not go to be outdo by a slip of a boy .
Thanks to Dan , Charlie take kindly to the saddle and bridle when he have once reconcile himself to the indignity of the bit ; and after Mr. Laurie have train him a little , Dan be permit to ride him , to the great envy and admiration of the other boy .
`` Is n't he handsome ?
and do n't he mind me like a lamb ? ''
say Dan one day a he dismount and stand with his arm round Charlie 's neck .
`` Yes , and be n't he a much more useful and agreeable animal than the wild colt who spend his day race about the field , jump fence , and run away now and then ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer from the step where she always appear when Dan perform with Charlie .
`` Of course he be .
See he wo n't run away now , even if I do n't hold him , and he come to me the minute I whistle ; I have tame him well , have n't I ? ''
and Dan look both proud and pleased , as well he might , for , in spite of their struggle together , Charlie love him good than his master .
`` I be tame a colt too , and I think I shall succeed as well a you if I be a patient and persevering , '' say Mrs. Jo , smile so significantly at him , that Dan understood and answer , laugh , yet in earnest , `` We wo n't jump over the fence and run away , but stay and let them make a handsome , useful span of u , hey , Charlie ? ''
CHAPTER XVII .
COMPOSITION DAY `` Hurry up , boy , it 's three o'clock , and Uncle Fritz like u to be punctual , you know , '' say Franz one Wednesday afternoon a a bell rang , and a stream of literary-looking young gentleman with book and paper in their hand be see go toward the museum .
Tommy be in the school-room , bend over his desk , much bedaub with ink , flush with the ardor of inspiration , and in a great hurry a usual , for easy-going Bangs never be ready till the very last minute .
As Franz pass the door look up laggard , Tommy give one last blot and flourish , and depart out the window , wave his paper to dry a he go .
Nan follow , look very important , with a large roll in her hand , and Demi escort Daisy , both evidently brimful of some delightful secret .
The museum be all in order , and the sunshine among the hop-vines make pretty shadow on the floor a it peep through the great window .
On one side sit Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer , on the other be a little table on which the composition be lay as soon a read , and in a large semicircle sit the child on camp-stools which occasionally shut up and let the sitter down , thus prevent any stiffness in the assembly .
As it take too much time to have all read , they take turn , and on this Wednesday the young pupil be the chief performer , while the elder one listen with condescension and criticise freely .
`` Ladies first ; so Nan may begin , '' say Mr. Bhaer , when the settling of stool and rustling of paper have subside .
Nan take her place beside the little table , and , with a preliminary giggle , read the follow interesting essay on , `` THE SPONGE `` The sponge , my friend , be a most useful and interesting plant .
It grow on rock under the water , and be a kind of sea-weed , I believe .
People go and pick it and dry it and wash it , because little fish and insect live in the hole of the sponge ; I find shell in my new one , and sand .
Some be very fine and soft ; baby be wash with them .
The sponge have many us .
I will relate some of them , and I hope my friend will remember what I say .
One use be to wash the face ; I do n't like it myself , but I do it because I wish to be clean .
Some people do n't , and they be dirty . ''
Here the eye of the reader rest sternly upon Dick and Dolly , who quail under it , and instantly resolve to scrub themselves virtuously on all occasion .
`` Another use be to wake people up ; I allude to boys par-tic-u-lar-ly . ''
Another pause after the long word to enjoy the smothered laugh that go round the room .
`` Some boy do not get up when call , and Mary Ann squeeze the water out of a wet sponge on their face , and it make them so mad they wake up . ''
Here the laugh break out , and Emil say , a if he have be hit , `` Seems to me you be wander from the subject . ''
`` No , I ai n't ; we be to write about vegetable or animal , and I 'm do both : for boy be animal , be n't they ? ''
cried Nan ; and , undaunted by the indignant `` No ! ''
shout at her , she calmly proceed , `` One more interesting thing be do with sponge , and this be when doctor put ether on it , and hold it to people 's nose when they have teeth out .
I shall do this when I be big , and give ether to the sick , so they will go to sleep and not feel me cut off their leg and arm . ''
`` I know somebody who kill cat with it , '' call out Demi , but be promptly crush by Dan , who upset his camp-stool and put a hat over his face .
`` I will not be interruckted , '' say Nan , frown upon the unseemly scrimmagers .
Order be instantly restore , and the young lady close her remark a follow : `` My composition have three moral , my friend . ''
Somebody groan , but no notice be take of the insult .
`` First , be keep your face clean second , get up early third , when the ether sponge be put over your nose , breathe hard and do n't kick , and your teeth will come out easy .
I have no more to say . ''
And Miss Nan sit down amid tumultuous applause .
`` That be a very remarkable composition ; it tone be high , and there be a good deal of humor in it .
Very well do , Nan .
Now , Daisy , '' and Mr. Bhaer smile at one young lady a he beckon the other .
Daisy color prettily a she take her place , and say , in her modest little voice , `` I 'm afraid you wo n't like mine ; it be n't nice and funny like Nan 's .
But I could n't do any good . ''
`` We always like yours , Posy , '' say Uncle Fritz , and a gentle murmur from the boy seem to confirm the remark .
Thus encourage , Daisy read her little paper , which be listen to with respectful attention .
`` THE CAT `` The cat be a sweet animal .
I love them very much .
They be clean and pretty , and catch rat and mouse , and let you pet them , and be fond of you if you be kind .
They be very wise , and can find their way anywhere .
Little cat be call kitten , and be dear thing .
I have two , name Huz and Buz , and their mother be Topaz , because she have yellow eye .
Uncle tell me a pretty story about a man name Ma-ho-met .
He have a nice cat , and when she be asleep on his sleeve , and he want to go away , he cut off the sleeve so a not to wake her up .
I think he be a kind man .
Some cat catch fish . ''
`` So do I ! ''
cry Teddy , jump up eager to tell about his trout .
`` Hush ! ''
say his mother , set him down again as quickly a possible , for orderly Daisy hat to be `` interruckted , '' a Nan express it .
`` I read about one who use to do it very slyly .
I try to make Topaz , but she do not like the water , and scratch me .
She do like tea , and when I play in my kitchen she pat the teapot with her paw , till I give her some .
She be a fine cat , she eat apple-pudding and molasses .
Most cat do not . ''
`` That 's a first-rater , '' call out Nat , and Daisy retire , pleased with the praise of her friend .
`` Demi look so impatient we must have him up at once or he wo n't hold out , '' say Uncle Fritz , and Demi skip up with alacrity .
`` Mine be a poem ! ''
he announce in a tone of triumph , and read his first effort in a loud and solemn voice : `` I write about the butterfly , It be a pretty thing ; And fly about like the bird , But it do not sing .
`` First it be a little grub , And then it be a nice yellow cocoon , And then the butterfly Eats it way out soon .
`` They live on dew and honey , They do not have any hive , They do not sting like wasp , and bee , and hornet , And to be as good a they be we should strive .
`` I should like to be a beautiful butterfly , All yellow , and blue , and green , and red ; But I should not like To have Dan put camphor on my poor little head . ''
This unusual burst of genius bring down the house , and Demi be oblige to read it again , a somewhat difficult task , a there be no punctuation whatever , and the little poet 's breath give out before he get to the end of some of the long line .
`` He will be a Shakespeare yet , '' say Aunt Jo , laugh a if she would die , for this poetic gem remind her of one of her own , write at the age of ten , and begin gloomily , `` I wish I have a quiet tomb , Beside a little rill ; Where bird , and bee , and butterfly , Would sing upon the hill . ''
`` Come on , Tommy .
If there be as much ink inside your paper a there be outside , it will be a long composition , '' say Mr. Bhaer , when Demi have be induce to tear himself from his poem and sit down .
`` It be n't a composition , it 's a letter .
You see , I forget all about it be my turn till after school , and then I do n't know what to have , and there be n't time to read up ; so I think you would n't mind my take a letter that I write to my Grandma .
It 's get something about bird in it , so I think it would do . ''
With this long excuse , Tommy plunge into a sea of ink and flounder through , pause now and then to decipher one of his own flourish .
`` MY DEAR GRANDMA , I hope you be well .
Uncle James send me a pocket rifle .
It be a beautiful little instrument of kill , shape like this -LSB- Here Tommy display a remarkable sketch of what look like an intricate pump , or the inside of a small steam-engine -RSB- 44 be the sight ; 6 be a false stock that fit in at A ; 3 be the trigger , and 2 be the cock .
It load at the breech , and fire with great force and straightness .
I be go out shoot squirrel soon .
I shoot several fine bird for the museum .
They have speckle breast , and Dan like them very much .
He stuff them tip-top , and they sit on the tree quite natural , only one look a little tipsy .
We have a Frenchman work here the other day , and Asia call his name so funnily that I will tell you about it .
His name be Germain : first she call him Jerry , but we laugh at her , and she change it to Jeremiah ; but ridicule be the result , so it become Mr. Germany ; but ridicule have be again resume , it become Garrymon , which it have remain ever since .
I do not write often , I be so busy ; but I think of you often , and sympathize with you , and sincerely hope you get on as well a can be expect without me .
Your affectionate grandson , `` THOMAS BUCKMINSTER BANGS .
`` P.S . ?
If you come across any postage-stamps , remember me .
`` N.B . Love to all , and a great deal to Aunt Almira .
Does she make any nice plum-cakes now ?
`` P.S . ?
Mrs. Bhaer send her respect .
`` P.S . ?
And so would Mr. B , if he know I be in act to write .
`` N.B . Father be go to give me a watch on my birthday .
I be glad a at present I have no mean of tell time , and be often late at school .
`` P.S . ?
I hope to see you soon .
Do n't you wish to send for me ?
`` T. B . B. '' As each postscript be receive with a fresh laugh from the boy , by the time he come to the sixth and last , Tommy be so exhausted that he be glad to sit down and wipe his ruddy face .
`` I hope the dear old lady will live through it , '' say Mr. Bhaer , under cover of the noise .
`` We wo n't take any notice of the broad hint give in that last P.S . .
The letter will be quite as much a she can bear without a visit from Tommy , '' answer Mrs. Jo , remember that the old lady usually take to her bed after a visitation from her irrepressible grandson .
`` Now , me , '' say Teddy , who have learn a bit of poetry , and be so eager to say it that he have be bob up and down during the reading , and could no longer be restrain .
`` I 'm afraid he will forget it if he wait ; and I have have a deal of trouble teach him , '' say his mother .
Teddy trot to the rostrum , drop a curtsey and nod his head at the same time , a if anxious to suit every one ; then , in his baby voice , and put the emphasis on the wrong word , he say his verse all in one breath : `` Little drop of water , Little drain of sand , Mate a might okum -LRB- ocean -RRB- , And a peasant land .
`` Little word of kindness , Pokin evvy day , Make a home a hebbin , And hep u on a way . ''
Clapping his hand at the end , he make another double salutation , and then run to hide his head in his mother 's lap , quite overcome by the success of his `` piece , '' for the applause be tremendous .
Dick and Dolly do not write , but be encourage to observe the habit of animal and insect , and report what they saw .
Dick like this , and always have a great deal to say ; so , when his name be call , he march up , and , look at the audience with his bright confide eye , tell his little story so earnestly that no one smile at his crooked body , because the `` straight soul '' shone through it beautifully .
`` I 've be watch dragonfly , and I read about them in Dan 's book , and I 'll try and tell you what I remember .
There 's lot of them fly round on the pond , all blue , with big eye , and sort of lace wing , very pretty .
I catch one , and look at him , and I think he be the handsome insect I ever saw .
They catch little creature than they be to eat , and have a queer kind of hook thing that fold up when they ai n't hunt .
It like the sunshine , and dance round all day .
Let me see !
what else be there to tell about ?
Oh , I know !
The egg be lay in the water , and go down to the bottom , and be hatch in the mud .
Little ugly thing come out of 'em ; I ca n't say the name , but they be brown , and keep have new skin , and get big and big .
Only think !
it take them two year to be a dragonfly !
Now this be the curious part of it , so you listen tight , for I do n't believe you know it .
When it be ready it know somehow , and the ugly , grubby thing climb up out of the water on a flag or a bulrush , and burst open it back . ''
`` Come , I do n't believe that , '' say Tommy , who be not an observant boy , and really think Dick be `` make up . ''
`` It do burst open it back , do n't it ? ''
and Dick appeal to Mr. Bhaer , who nod a very decided affirmative , to the little speaker 's great satisfaction .
`` Well , out come the dragonfly , all whole , and he sit in the sun sort of come alive , you know ; and he get strong , and then he spread his pretty wing , and fly away up in the air , and never be a grub any more .
That 's all I know ; but I shall watch and try to see him do it , for I think it 's splendid to turn into a beautiful dragonfly , do n't you ? ''
Dick have tell his story well , and , when he describe the flight of the new-born insect , have wave his hand , and look up a if he saw , and want to follow it .
Something in his face suggest to the mind of the elder listeners the thought that some day little Dick would have his wish , and after year of helplessness and pain would climb up into the sun some happy day , and , leave his poor little body behind him , find a new lovely shape in a fairer world than this .
Mrs. Jo draw him to her side , and say , with a kiss on his thin cheek , `` That be a sweet little story , dear , and you remember it wonderfully well .
I shall write and tell your mother all about it ; '' and Dick sit on her knee , contentedly smile at the praise , and resolve to watch well , and catch the dragonfly in the act of leave it old body for the new , and see how he do it .
Dolly have a few remark to make upon the `` Duck , '' and make them in a sing-song tone , for he have learn it by heart , and think it a great plague to do it at all .
`` Wild duck be hard to kill ; men hide and shoot at them , and have tame duck to quack and make the wild one come where the men can fire at them .
They have wooden duck make too , and they sail round , and the wild one come to see them ; they be stupid , I think .
Our duck be very tame .
They eat a great deal , and go poke round in the mud and water .
They do n't take good care of their egg , but them spoil , and -- '' `` Mine do n't ! ''
cry Tommy .
`` Well , some people 's do ; Silas say so .
Hens take good care of little duck , only they do n't like to have them go in the water , and make a great fuss .
But the little one do n't care a bit .
I like to eat duck with stuff in them and lot of apple-sauce . ''
`` I have something to say about owl , '' begin Nat , who have carefully prepare a paper upon this subject with some help from Dan .
`` Owls have big head , round eye , hook bill , and strong claw .
Some be gray , some white , some black and yellowish .
Their feather be very soft , and stick out a great deal .
They fly very quietly , and hunt bat , mouse , little bird , and such thing .
They build nest in barn , hollow tree , and some take the nest of other bird .
The great horned owl have two egg big than a hen 's and reddish brown .
The tawny owl have five egg , white and smooth ; and this be the kind that hoot at night .
Another kind sound like a child cry .
They eat mouse and bat whole , and the part that they can not digest they make into little ball and spit out . ''
`` My gracious !
how funny ! ''
Nan be hear to observe .
`` They can not see by day ; and if they get out into the light , they go flap round half blind , and the other bird chase and peck at them , a if they be make fun .
The horned owl be very big , ` most as big a the eagle .
It eat rabbit , rat , snake , and bird ; and live in rock and old tumble-down house .
They have a good many cry , and scream like a person be choke , and say , ` Waugh O !
waugh O ! '
and it scar people at night in the wood .
The white owl life by the sea , and in cold place , and look something like a hawk .
There be a kind of owl that make hole to live in like mole .
It be call the burrowing owl , and be very small .
The barn-owl be the common kind ; and I have watch one sit in a hole in a tree , look like a little gray cat , with one eye shut and the other open .
He come out at dusk , and sit round wait for the bat .
I catch one , and here he be . ''
With that Nat suddenly produce from inside his jacket a little downy bird , who blink and ruffle his feather , look very plump and sleepy and scar .
`` Do n't touch him !
He be go to show off , '' say Nat , display his new pet with great pride .
First he put a cocked hat on the bird 's head , and the boy laugh at the funny effect ; then he add a pair of paper spectacle , and that give the owl such a wise look that they shout with merriment .
The performance close with make the bird angry , and see him cling to a handkerchief upside down , peck and `` clucking , '' a Rob call it .
He be allow to fly after that , and settle himself on the bunch of pine-cones over the door , where he sit star down at the company with an air of sleepy dignity that amuse them very much .
`` Have you anything for u , George ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , when the room be still again .
`` Well , I read and learn ever so much about mole , but I declare I 've forget every bit of it , except that they dig hole to live in , that you catch them by pour water down , and that they ca n't possibly live without eat very often ; '' and Stuffy sit down , wish he have not be too lazy to write out his valuable observation , for a general smile go round when he mention the last of the three fact which linger in his memory .
`` Then we be do for to-day , '' begin Mr. Bhaer , but Tommy call out in a great hurry , `` No we ai n't .
Do n't you know ?
We must give the thing ; '' and he wink violently a he make an eye-glass of his finger .
`` Bless my heart , I forget !
Now be your time , Tom ; '' and Mr. Bhaer drop into his seat again , while all the boy but Dan look mightily tickle at something .
Nat , Tommy , and Demi leave the room , and speedily return with a little red morocco box set forth in state on Mrs. Jo 's best silver salver .
Tommy bore it , and , still escort by Nat and Demi , march up to unsuspecting Dan , who star at them a if he think they be go to make fun of him .
Tommy have prepare an elegant and impressive speech for the occasion , but when the minute come , it all go out of his head , and he just say , straight from his kindly boyish heart , `` Here , old fellow , we all want to give you something to kind of pay for what happen awhile ago , and to show how much we like you for be such a trump .
Please take it , and have a jolly good time with it . ''
Dan be so surprised he could only get as red a the little box , and mutter , `` Thanky , boys ! ''
a he fumble to open it .
But when he saw what be inside , his face light up , and he seize the long desired treasure , say so enthusiastically that every one be satisfy , though be language be anything but polish , `` What a stunner !
I say , you fellow be regular brick to give me this ; it 's just what I want .
Give u your paw , Tommy . ''
Many paw be give , and heartily shake , for the boy be charm with Dan 's pleasure , and crowd round him to shake hand and expatiate on the beauty of their gift .
In the midst of this pleasant chatter , Dan 's eye go to Mrs. Jo , who stand outside the group enjoy the scene with all her heart .
`` No , I have nothing to do with it .
The boy get it up all themselves , '' she say , answer the grateful look that seem to thank her for that happy moment .
Dan smile , and say , in a tone that only she could understand , `` It 's you all the same ; '' and make his way through the boy , he hold out his hand first to her and then to the good Professor , who be beam benevolently on his flock .
He thank them both with the silent , hearty squeeze he give the kind hand that have hold him up , and lead him into the safe refuge of a happy home .
Not a word be speak , but they felt all he would say , and little Teddy express his pleasure for them a he lean from his father 's arm to hug the boy , and say , in his baby way , `` My dood Danny !
everybody love him now . ''
`` Come here , show off your spy-glass , Dan , and let u see some of your magnified pollywog and annymalcumisms a you call 'em , '' say Jack , who felt so uncomfortable during this scene that he would have slip away if Emil have not keep him .
`` So I will , take a squint at that and see what you think of it , '' say Dan , glad to show off his precious microscope .
He hold it over a beetle that happen to be lie on the table , and Jack bend down to take his squint , but look up with an amazed face , say , `` My eye !
what nippers the old thing have get !
I see now why it hurt so confoundedly when you grab a dorbug and he grab back again . ''
`` He wink at me , '' cry Nan , who have poke her head under Jack 's elbow and get the second peep .
Every one take a look , and then Dan show them the lovely plumage on a moth 's wing , the four feathery corner to a hair , the vein on a leaf , hardly visible to the naked eye , but like a thick net through the wonderful little glass ; the skin on their own finger , look like queer hill and valley ; a cobweb like a bit of coarse sew silk , and the sting of a bee .
`` It 's like the fairy spectacle in my story-book , only more curious , '' say Demi , enchant with the wonder he saw .
`` Dan be a magician now , and he can show you many miracle go on all round you ; for he have two thing needful patience and a love of nature .
We live in a beautiful and wonderful world , Demi , and the more you know about it the wiser and the good you will be .
This little glass will give you a new set of teacher , and you may learn fine lesson from them if you will , '' say Mr. Bhaer , glad to see how interested the boy be in the matter .
`` Could I see anybody 's soul with this microscope if I look hard ? ''
ask Demi , who be much impress with the power of the bit of glass .
`` No , dear ; it 's not powerful enough for that , and never can be make so .
You must wait a long while before your eye be clear enough to see the most invisible of God 's wonder .
But look at the lovely thing you can see will help you to understand the lovely thing you can not see , '' answer Uncle Fritz , with his hand on the boy 's head .
`` Well , Daisy and I both think that if there be any angel , their wing look like that butterfly 's a we see it through the glass , only more soft and gold . ''
`` Believe it if you like , and keep your own little wing a bright and beautiful , only do n't fly away for a long time yet . ''
`` No , I wo n't , '' and Demi keep his word .
`` Good-by , my boy ; I must go now , but I leave you with our new Professor of Natural History ; '' and Mrs. Jo go away well pleased with that composition day .
CHAPTER XVIII .
CROPS The garden do well that summer , and in September the little crop be gather in with much rejoicing .
Jack and Ned join their farm and raise potato , those be a good salable article .
They get twelve bushel , count little one and all , and sell them to Mr. Bhaer at a fair price , for potato go fast in that house .
Emil and Franz devote themselves to corn , and have a jolly little husking in the barn , after which they take their corn to the mill , and come proudly home with meal enough to supply the family with hasty-pudding and Johnny-cake for a lone time .
They would not take money for their crop ; because , a Franz say , `` We never can pay Uncle for all he have do for u if we raise corn for the rest of our day . ''
Nat have bean in such abundance that he despair of ever shell them , till Mrs. Jo propose a new way , which succeed admirably .
The dry pod be spread upon the barn-floor , Nat fiddle , and the boy dance quadrille on them , till they be thrash out with much merriment and very little labor .
Tommy 's six week ' bean be a failure ; for a dry spell early in the season hurt them , because he give them no water ; and after that he be so sure that they could take care of themselves , he let the poor thing struggle with bug and weed till they be exhaust and die a linger death .
So Tommy have to dig his farm over again , and plant pea .
But they be late ; the bird eat many ; the bush , not be firmly plant , blow down , and when the poor pea come at last , no one care for them , a their day be over , and spring-lamb have grow into mutton .
Tommy console himself with a charitable effort ; for he transplant all the thistle he could find , and tend them carefully for Toby , who be fond of the prickly delicacy , and have eat all he could find on the place .
The boy have great fun over Tom 's thistle bed ; but he insist that it be well to care for poor Toby than for himself , and declare that he would devote his entire farm next year to thistle , worm , and snail , that Demi 's turtle and Nat 's pet owl might have the food they love , as well a the donkey .
So like shiftless , kind-hearted , happy-go-lucky Tommy !
Demi have supply his grandmother with lettuce all summer , and in the autumn send his grandfather a basket of turnip , each one scrub up till it look like a great white egg .
His Grandma be fond of salad , and one of his Grandpa 's favorite quotation be , `` Lucullus , whom frugality could charm , Ate roast turnip at the Sabine farm . ''
Therefore these vegetable offering to the dear domestic god and goddess be affectionate , appropriate , and classical .
Daisy have nothing but flower in her little plot , and it bloom all summer long with a succession of gay or fragrant posy .
She be very fond of her garden , and delve away in it at all hour , watch over her rose , and pansy , sweet-peas , and mignonette , a faithfully and tenderly a she do over her doll or her friend .
Little nosegay be send into town on all occasion , and certain vas about the house be her especial care .
She have all sort of pretty fancy about her flower , and love to tell the child the story of the pansy , and show them how the step-mother-leaf sit up in her green chair in purple and gold ; how the two own child in gay yellow have each it little seat , while the step child , in dull color , both sit on one small stool , and the poor little father in his red nightcap , be keep out of sight in the middle of the flower ; that a monk 's dark face look out of the monk 's - hood larkspur ; that the flower of the canary-vine be so like dainty bird flutter their yellow wing , that one almost expect to see them fly away , and the snapdragon that go off like little pistol-shots when you crack them .
Splendid dolly do she make out of scarlet and white poppy , with ruffled robe tie round the waist with grass blade sash , and astonish hat of coreopsis on their green head .
Pea-pod boat , with rose-leaf sail , receive these flower-people , and float them about a placid pool in the most charming style ; for find that there be no elf , Daisy make her own , and love the fanciful little friend who play their part in her summer-life .
Nan go in for herb , and have a fine display of useful plant , which she tend with steadily increase interest and care .
Very busy be she in September cutting , dry , and tie up her sweet harvest , and write down in a little book how the different herb be to be use .
She have try several experiment , and make several mistake ; so she wish to be particular l she should give little Huz another fit by administer wormwood instead of catnip .
Dick , Dolly , and Rob each grub away on his small farm , and make more stir about it than all the rest put together .
Parsnips and carrot be the crop of the two D. 's ; and they long for it to be late enough to pull up the precious vegetable .
Dick do privately examine his carrot , and plant them again , feel that Silas be right in say it be too soon for them yet .
Rob 's crop be four small squash and one immense pumpkin .
It really be a `` bouncer , '' a every one say ; and I assure you that two small person could sit on it side by side .
It seem to have absorb all the goodness of the little garden , and all the sunshine that shine down on it , and lay there a great round , golden ball , full of rich suggestion of pumpkin-pies for week to come .
Robby be so proud of his mammoth vegetable that he take every one to see it , and , when frost begin to nip , cover it up each night with an old bedquilt , tuck it round a if the pumpkin be a well-beloved baby .
The day it be gather he would let no one touch it but himself , and nearly break his back tug it to the barn in his little wheelbarrow , with Dick and Dolly harness in front to give a heave up the path .
His mother promise him that the Thanksgiving-pies should be make from it , and hint vaguely that she have a plan in her head which would cover the prize pumpkin and it owner with glory .
Poor Billy have plant cucumber , but unfortunately hoe them up and leave the pig-weed .
This mistake grieve him very much for tem minute , then he forget all about it , and sow a handful of bright button which he have collect , evidently think in his feeble mind that they be money , and would come up and multiply , so that he might make many quarter , a Tommy do .
No one disturb him , and he do what he like with his plot , which soon look a if a series of small earthquake have stir it up .
When the general harvest-day come , he would have have nothing but stone and weed to show , if kind old Asia have not hang half-a-dozen orange on the dead tree he stick up in the middle .
Billy be delight with his crop ; and no one spoil his pleasure in the little miracle which pity wrought for him , by make withered branch bear strange fruit .
Stuffy have various trial with his melon ; for , be impatient to taste them , he have a solitary revel before they be ripe , and make himself so ill , that for a day or two it seem doubtful if he would ever eat any more .
But he pull through it , and serve up his first cantaloupe without taste a mouthful himself .
They be excellent melon , for he have a warm slope for them , and they ripen fast .
The last and best be linger on the vine , and Stuffy have announce that he should sell them to a neighbor .
This disappoint the boy , who have hop to eat the melon themselves , and they express their displeasure in a new and striking manner .
Going one morning to gaze upon the three fine watermelon which he have keep for the market , Stuffy be horrify to find the word `` PIG '' cut in white letter on the green rind , star at him from every one .
He be in a great rage , and fly to Mrs. Jo for redress .
She listen , condole with him , and then say , `` If you want to turn the laugh , I 'll tell you how , but you must give up the melon . ''
`` Well , I will ; for I ca n't thrash all the boy , but I 'd like to give them something to remember , the mean sneak , '' growl Stuff , still in a fume .
Now Mrs. Jo be pretty sure who have do the trick , for she have see three head suspiciously near to one another in the sofa-corner the evening before ; and when these head have nod with chuckle and whisper , this experienced woman know mischief be afoot .
A moonlight night , a rustling in the old cherry-tree near Emil 's window , a cut on Tommy 's finger , all help to confirm her suspicion ; and have cool Stuffy 's wrath a little , she bid him bring his maltreated melon to her room , and say not a word to any one of what have happen .
He do so , and the three wag be amaze to find their joke so quietly take .
It spoil the fun , and the entire disappearance of the melon make them uneasy .
So do Stuffy 's good-nature , for he look more placid and plump than ever , and survey them with an air of calm pity that perplex them very much .
At dinner-time they discover why ; for then Stuffy 's vengeance fell upon them , and the laugh be turn against them .
When the pudding be eat , and the fruit be put on , Mary Ann re-appeared in a high state of giggle , bear a large watermelon ; Silas follow with another ; and Dan bring up the rear with a third .
One be place before each of the three guilty lad ; and they read on the smooth green skin this addition to their own work , `` With the compliment of the PIG . ''
Every one else read it also , and the whole table be in a roar , for the trick have be whisper about ; so every one understood the sequel .
Emil , Ned , and Tommy do not know where to look , and have not a word to say for themselves ; so they wisely join in the laugh , cut up the melon , and hand them round , say , what all the rest agree to , that Stuffy have take a wise and merry way to return good for evil .
Dan have no garden , for he be away or lame the great part of the summer ; so he have help Silas wherever he could , chop wood for Asia , and take care of the lawn so well , that Mrs. Jo always have smooth path and nicely shaven turf before her door .
When the others get in their crop , he look sorry that he have so little to show ; but a autumn go on , he bethink himself of a woodland harvest which no one would dispute with him , and which be peculiarly his own .
Every Saturday he be away alone to the forest , field , and hill , and always come back load with spoil ; for he seem to know the meadow where the best flag-root grow , the thicket where the sassafras be spiciest , the haunt where the squirrel go for nut , the white oak whose bark be most valuable , and the little gold-thread vine that Nursey like to cure the canker with .
All sort of splendid red and yellow leaf do Dan bring home for Mrs. Jo to dress her parlor with , graceful-seeded grass , clematis tassel , downy , soft , yellow wax-work berry , and moss , red-brimmed , white , or emerald green .
`` I need not sigh for the wood now , because Dan bring the wood to me , '' Mrs. Jo use to say , a she glorify the wall with yellow maple bough and scarlet woodbine wreath , or fill her vas with russet fern , hemlock spray full of delicate cone , and hardy autumn flower ; for Dan 's crop suit her well .
The great garret be full of the child 's little store and for a time be one of the sight of the house .
Daisy 's flower seed in neat little paper bag , all label , lay in a drawer of a three-legged table .
Nan 's herb hung in bunch against the wall , fill the air with their aromatic breath .
Tommy have a basket of thistle-down with the tiny seed attach , for he mean to plant them next year , if they do not all fly away before that time .
Emil have bunch of pop-corn hanging there to dry , and Demi lay up acorn and different sort of grain for the pet .
But Dan 's crop make the best show , for fully one half of the floor be cover with the nut he bring .
All kind be there , for he range the wood for mile round , climb the tall tree , and force his way into the thick hedge for his plunder .
Walnuts , chestnut , hazelnut , and beechnut lay in separate compartment , get brown , and dry , and sweet , ready for winter revel .
There be one butternut-tree on the place , and Rob and Teddy call it theirs .
It bore well this year , and the great dingy nut come drop down to hide among the dead leaf , where the busy squirrel find them good than the lazy Bhaers .
Their father have tell them -LRB- the boy , not the squirrel -RRB- they should have the nut if they would pick them up , but no one be to help .
It be easy work , and Teddy like it , only he soon get tire , and leave his little basket half full for another day .
But the other day be slow to arrive , and , meantime , the sly squirrel be hard at work , scamper up and down the old elm-trees stow the nut away till their hole be full , then all about the crotch of the bough , to be remove at their leisure .
Their funny little way amuse the boy , till one day Silas say , `` Hev you sell them nut to the squirrel ? ''
`` No , '' answer Rob , wonder what Silas meant .
`` Wal , then , you 'd better fly round , or them spry little feller wo n't leave you none . ''
`` Oh , we can beat them when we begin .
There be such lot of nut we shall have a plenty . ''
`` There ai n't many more to come down , and they have clear the ground pretty well , see if they hai n't . ''
Robby run to look , and be alarm to find how few remain .
He call Teddy , and they work hard all one afternoon , while the squirrel sit on the fence and scold .
`` Now , Ted , we must keep watch , and pick up just as fast a they fall , or we sha n't have more than a bushel , and every one will laugh at u if we do n't . ''
`` The naughty quillies tar n't have 'em .
I 'll pick fast and run and put 'em in the barn twick , '' say Teddy , frown at little Frisky , who chatter and whisk his tail indignantly .
That night a high wind blow down hundred of nut , and when Mrs. Jo come to wake her little son , she say , briskly , `` Come , my laddie , the squirrel be hard at it , and you will have to work well to-day , or they will have every nut on the ground . ''
`` No , they wo n't , '' and Robby tumble up in a great hurry , gobble his breakfast , and rush out to save his property .
Teddy go too , and work like a little beaver , trot to and fro with full and empty basket .
Another bushel be soon put away in the corn-barn , and they be scramble among the leaf for more nut when the bell rang for school .
`` O father !
let me stay out and pick .
Those horrid squirrel will have my nut if you do n't .
I 'll do my lesson by and by , '' cry Rob , run into the school-room , flush and tousle by the fresh cold wind and his eager work .
`` If you have be up early and do a little every morning there would be no hurry now .
I tell you that , Rob , and you never mind .
I can not have the lesson neglect a the work have be .
The squirrel will get more than their share this year , and they deserve it , for they have work best .
You may go an hour earlier , but that be all , '' and Mr. Bhaer lead Rob to his place where the little man dash at his book a if bent on make sure of the precious hour promise him .
It be almost madden to sit still and see the wind shake down the last nut , and the lively thief fly about , pause now and then to eat one in his face , and flirt their tail , a if they say , saucily , `` We 'll have them in spite of you , lazy Rob . ''
The only thing that sustain the poor child in this try moment be the sight of Teddy work away all alone .
It be really splendid the pluck and perseverance of the little lad .
He pick and pick till his back ache ; he trudge to and fro till his small leg be tire ; and he defy wind , weariness , and wicked `` quillies , '' till his mother leave her work and do the carrying for him , full of admiration for the kind little fellow who try to help his brother .
When Rob be dismiss , he find Teddy repose in the bushel-basket quite use up , but unwilling to quit the field ; for he flap his hat at the thief with one grubby little hand , while he refresh himself with the big apple hold in the other .
Rob fell to work and the ground be clear before two o'clock , the nut safely in the corn-barn loft , and the weary worker exult in their success .
But Frisky and his wife be not to be vanquish so easily ; and when Rob go up to look at his nut a few day later he be amaze to see how many have vanish .
None of the boy could have steal them , because the door have be lock ; the dove could not have eat them , and there be no rat about .
There be great lamentation among the young Bhaers till Dick say , `` I saw Frisky on the roof of the corn-barn , may be he take them . ''
`` I know he do !
I 'll have a trap , and kill him dead , '' cry Rob , disgust with Frisky 's grasping nature .
`` Perhaps if you watch , you can find out where he put them , and I may be able to get them back for you , '' say Dan , who be much amuse by the fight between the boy and squirrel .
So Rob watch and saw Mr. and Mrs. Frisky drop from the droop elm bough on to the roof of the corn-barn , dodge in at one of the little door , much to the disturbance of the dove , and come out with a nut in each mouth .
So laden they could not get back the way they come , but run down the low roof , along the wall , and leap off at a corner they vanish a minute and re-appeared without their plunder .
Rob run to the place , and in a hollow under the leaf he find a heap of the steal property hide away to be carry off to the hole by and by .
`` Oh , you little villain !
I 'll cheat you now , and not leave one , '' say Rob .
So he clear the corner and the corn-barn , and put the contest nut in the garret , make sure that no broken window-pane could anywhere let in the unprincipled squirrel .
They seem to feel that the contest be over , and retire to their hole , but now and then could not resist throw down nut-shells on Rob 's head , and scold violently a if they could not forgive him nor forget that he have the best of the battle .
Father and Mother Bhaer 's crop be of a different sort , and not so easily describe ; but they be satisfy with it , felt that their summer work have prosper well , and by and by have a harvest that make them very happy .
CHAPTER XIX .
JOHN BROOKE `` Wake up , Demi , dear !
I want you . ''
`` Why , I 've just go to bed ; it ca n't be morning yet ; '' and Demi blink like a little owl a he wake from his first sound sleep .
`` It 's only ten , but your father be ill , and we must go to him .
O my little John !
my poor little John ! ''
and Aunt Jo lay her head down on the pillow with a sob that scar sleep from Demi 's eye and fill his heart with fear and wonder ; for he dimly felt why Aunt Jo call him `` John , '' and weep over him a if some loss have come that leave him poor .
He cling to her without a word , and in a minute she be quite steady again , and say , with a tender kiss a she saw his troubled face , `` We be go to say good-by to him , my darling , and there be no time to lose ; so dress quickly and come to me in my room .
I must go to Daisy . ''
`` Yes , I will ; '' and when Aunt Jo be go , little Demi get up quietly , dress a if in a dream , and leave Tommy fast asleep go away through the silent house , feel that something new and sorrowful be go to happen something that set him apart from the other boy for a time , and make the world seem a dark and still and strange a those familiar room do in the night .
A carriage send by Mr. Laurie stand before the door .
Daisy be soon ready , and the brother and sister hold each other by the hand all the way into town , a they drive swiftly and silently with aunt and uncle through the shadowy roads to say good-by to father .
None of the boy but Franz and Emil know what have happen , and when they come down next morning , great be their wonderment and discomfort , for the house seem forlorn without it master and mistress .
Breakfast be a dismal meal with no cheery Mrs. Jo behind the teapot ; and when school-time come , Father Bhaer 's place be empty .
They wander about in a disconsolate kind of way for an hour , wait for news and hop it would be all right with Demi 's father , for good John Brooke be much beloved by the boy .
Ten o'clock come , and no one arrive to relieve their anxiety .
They do not feel like playing , yet the time drag heavily , and they sit about listless and sober .
All at once , Franz get up , and say , in his persuasive way , `` Look here , boys !
let 's go into school and do our lesson just a if Uncle be here .
It will make the day go faster , and will please him , I know . ''
`` But who will hear u say them ? ''
ask Jack .
`` I will ; I do n't know much more than you do , but I 'm the old here , and I 'll try to fill Uncle 's place till he come , if you do n't mind . ''
Something in the modest , serious way Franz say this impress the boy , for , though the poor lad 's eye be red with quiet cry for Uncle John in that long sad night , there be a new manliness about him , a if he have already begin to feel the care and trouble of life , and try to take them bravely .
`` I will , for one , '' and Emil go to his seat , remember that obedience to his superior officer be a seaman 's first duty .
The others follow ; Franz take his uncle 's seat , and for an hour order reign .
Lessons be learn and say , and Franz make a patient , pleasant teacher , wisely omit such lesson a he be not equal to , and keep order more by the unconscious dignity that sorrow give him than by any word of his own .
The little boy be read when a step be hear in the hall , and every one look up to read the news in Mr. Bhaer 's face a he come in .
The kind face tell them instantly that Demi have no father now , for it be wear and pale , and full of tender grief , which leave him no word with which to answer Rob , a he run to him , say , reproachfully , `` What make you go and leave me in the night , papa ? ''
The memory of the other father who have leave his child in the night , never to return , make Mr. Bhaer hold his own boy close , and , for a minute , hide his face in Robby 's curly hair .
Emil lay his head down on his arm , Franz , go to put his hand on his uncle 's shoulder , his boyish face pale with sympathy and sorrow , and the others sit so still that the soft rustle of the fall leaf outside be distinctly hear .
Rob do not clearly understand what have happen , but he hat to see papa unhappy , so he lift up the bent head , and say , in his chirpy little voice , `` Do n't cry , mein Vater !
we be all so good , we do our lesson , without you , and Franz be the master . ''
Mr. Bhaer look up then , try to smile , and say in a grateful tone that make the lad feel like saint , `` I thank you very much , my boy .
It be a beautiful way to help and comfort me .
I shall not forget it , I assure you . ''
`` Franz propose it , and be a first-rate master , too , '' say Nat ; and the others give a murmur of assent most gratifying to the young dominie .
Mr. Bhaer put Rob down , and , stand up , put his arm round his tall nephew 's shoulder , a he say , with a look of genuine pleasure , `` This make my hard day easy , and give me confidence in you all .
I be need there in town , and must leave you for some hour .
I think to give you a holiday , or send some of you home , but if you like to stay and go on a you have begin , I shall be glad and proud of my good boy . ''
`` We 'll stay ; '' `` We 'd rather ; '' `` Franz can see to u ; '' cry several , delight with the confidence show in them .
`` Is n't Marmar come home ? ''
ask Rob , wistfully ; for home without `` Marmar '' be the world without the sun to him .
`` We shall both come to-night ; but dear Aunt Meg need Mother more than you do now , and I know you like to lend her for a little while . ''
`` Well , I will ; but Teddy 's be cry for her , and he slap Nursey , and be dreadful naughty , '' answer Rob , a if the news might bring mother home .
`` Where be my little man ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer .
`` Dan take him out , to keep him quiet .
He 's all right now , '' say Franz , point to the window , through which they could see Dan draw baby in his little wagon , with the dog frolic about him .
`` I wo n't see him , it would only upset him again ; but tell Dan I leave Teddy in his care .
You older boy I trust to manage yourselves for a day .
Franz will direct you , and Silas be here to over see matter .
So good-by till to-night . ''
`` Just tell me a word about Uncle John , '' say Emil , detain Mr. Bhaer , a he be about hurry away again .
`` He be only ill a few hour , and die a he have live , so cheerfully , so peacefully , that it seem a sin to mar the beauty of it with any violent or selfish grief .
We be in time to say good-by : and Daisy and Demi be in his arm a he fell asleep on Aunt Meg 's breast .
No more now , I can not bear it , '' and Mr. Bhaer go hastily away quite bow with grief , for in John Brooke he have lose both friend and brother , and there be no one leave to take his place .
All that day the house be very still ; the small boy play quietly in the nursery ; the others , feel a if Sunday have come in the middle of the week , spend it in walk , sit in the willow , or among their pet , all talk much of `` Uncle John , '' and feel that something gentle , just , and strong , have go out of their little world , leave a sense of loss that deepen every hour .
At dusk , Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer come home alone , for Demi and Daisy be their mother 's best comfort now , and could not leave her .
Poor Mrs. Jo seem quite spent , and evidently need the same sort of comfort , for her first word , a she come up the stair , be , `` Where be my baby ? ''
`` Here I be , '' answer a little voice , a Dan put Teddy into her arm , add , a she hug him close , `` My Danny tooked tare of me all day , and I be dood . ''
Mrs. Jo turn to thank the faithful nurse , but Dan be wave off the boy , who have gather in the hall to meet her , and be say , in a low voice , `` Keep back ; she do n't want to be bother with u now . ''
`` No , do n't keep back .
I want you all .
Come in and see me , my boy .
I 've neglect you all day , '' and Mrs. Jo hold out her hand to them a they gather round and escort her into her own room , say little , but express much by affectionate look and clumsy little effort to show their sorrow and sympathy .
`` I be so tired , I will lie here and cuddle Teddy , and you shall bring me in some tea , '' she say , try to speak cheerfully for their sake .
A general stampede into the dining-room follow , and the supper-table would have be ravage if Mr. Bhaer have not interfere .
It be agree that one squad should carry in the mother 's tea , and another bring it out .
The four near and dear claim the first honor , so Franz bore the teapot , Emil the bread , Rob the milk , and Teddy insist on carry the sugar basin , which be light by several lump when it arrive than when it start .
Some woman might have find it annoy at such a time to have boy creak in and out , upset cup and rattle spoon in violent effort to be quiet and helpful ; but it suit Mrs. Jo , because just then her heart be very tender ; and remember that many of her boy be fatherless or motherless , she yearn over them , and find comfort in their blundering affection .
It be the sort of food that do her more good than the very thick bread-and-butter that they give her , and the rough Commodore 's broken whisper , `` Bear up , Aunty , it 's a hard blow ; but we 'll weather it somehow ; '' cheer her more than the sloppy cup he bring her , full of tea as bitter a if some salt tear of his own have drop into it on the way .
When supper be over , a second deputation remove the tray ; and Dan say , hold out his arm for sleepy little Teddy , `` Let me put him to bed , you 're so tired , Mother . ''
`` Will you go with him , lovey ? ''
ask Mrs. Jo of her small lord and master , who lay on her arm among the sofa-pillows .
`` Torse I will ; '' and he be proudly carry off by his faithful bearer .
`` I wish I could do something , '' say Nat , with a sigh , a Franz lean over the sofa , and softly stroke Aunt Jo 's hot forehead .
`` You can , dear .
Go and get your violin , and play me the sweet little airs Uncle Teddy send you last .
Music will comfort me good than any thing else to-night . ''
Nat fly for his fiddle , and , sit just outside her door , play a he have never do before , for now his heart be in it , and seem to magnetize his finger .
The other lad sit quietly upon the step , keep watch that no new-comer should disturb the house ; Franz linger at his post ; and so , soothe , serve , and guard by her boy , poor Mrs. Jo sleep at last , and forget her sorrow for an hour .
Two quiet day , and on the third Mr. Bhaer come in just after school , with a note in his hand , look both move and please .
`` I want to read you something , boy , '' he say ; and a they stand round him he read this : `` DEAR BROTHER FRITZ , I hear that you do not mean to bring your flock today , think that I may not like it .
Please do .
The sight of his friend will help Demi through the hard hour , and I want the boy to hear what father say of my John .
It will do them good , I know .
If they would sing one of the sweet old hymn you have teach them so well , I should like it good than any other music , and feel that it be beautifully suit to the occasion .
Please ask them , with my love .
`` MEG . ''
`` Will you go ? ''
and Mr. Bhaer look at the lad , who be greatly touch by Mrs. Brooke 's kind word and wish .
`` Yes , '' they answer , like one boy ; and an hour later they go away with Franz to bear their part in John Brooke 's simple funeral .
The little house look a quiet , sunny , and home-like a when Meg enter it a a bride , ten year ago , only then it be early summer , and rise blossom everywhere ; now it be early autumn , and dead leaf rustle softly down , leave the branch bare .
The bride be a widow now ; but the same beautiful serenity shone in her face , and the sweet resignation of a truly pious soul make her presence a consolation to those who come to comfort her .
`` O Meg !
how can you bear it so ? ''
whisper Jo , a she meet them at the door with a smile of welcome , and no change in her gentle manner , except more gentleness .
`` Dear Jo , the love that have blest me for ten happy year support me still .
It could not die , and John be more my own than ever , '' whisper Meg ; and in her eye the tender trust be so beautiful and bright , that Jo believe her , and thank God for the immortality of love like hers .
They be all there father and mother , Uncle Teddy , and Aunt Amy , old Mr. Laurence , white-haired and feeble now , Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer , with their flock , and many friend , come to do honor to the dead .
One would have say that modest John Brooke , in his busy , quiet , humble life , have have little time to make friend ; but now they seem to start up everywhere , old and young , rich and poor , high and low ; for all unconsciously his influence have make itself widely felt , his virtue be remember , and his hidden charity rise up to bless him .
The group about his coffin be a far more eloquent eulogy than any Mr. March could utter .
There be the rich men whom he have serve faithfully for year ; the poor old woman whom he cherish with his little store , in memory of his mother ; the wife to whom he have give such happiness that death could not mar it utterly ; the brother and sister in whose heart he have make a place for ever ; the little son and daughter , who already felt the loss of his strong arm and tender voice ; the young child , sob for their kind playmate , and the tall lad , watch with softened face a scene which they never could forget .
A very simple service , and very short ; for the fatherly voice that have falter in the marriage-sacrament now fail entirely a Mr. March endeavor to pay his tribute of reverence and love to the son whom he most honored .
Nothing but the soft coo of Baby Josy 's voice up-stairs break the long hush that follow the last Amen , till , at a sign from Mr. Bhaer , the well-trained boyish voice break out in a hymn , so full of lofty cheer , that one by one all join in it , sing with full heart , and find their troubled spirit lift into peace on the wing of that brave , sweet psalm .
As Meg listen , she felt that she have do well ; for not only do the moment comfort her with the assurance that John 's last lullaby be sing by the young voice he love so well , but in the face of the boy she saw that they have catch a glimpse of the beauty of virtue in it most impressive form , and that the memory of the good man lie dead before them would live long and helpfully in their remembrance .
Daisy 's head lay in her lap , and Demi hold her hand , look often at her , with eye so like his father 's , and a little gesture that seem to say , `` Do n't be trouble , mother ; I be here ; '' and all about her be friend to lean upon and love ; so patient , pious Meg put by her heavy grief , feel that her best help would be to live for others , a her John have do .
That evening , a the Plumfield boys sit on the step , a usual , in the mild September moonlight , they naturally fell to talk of the event of the day .
Emil begin by break out , in his impetuous way , `` Uncle Fritz be the wise , and Uncle Laurie the jolliest , but Uncle John be the best ; and I 'd rather be like him than any man I ever saw . ''
`` So would I .
Did you hear what those gentleman say to Grandpa to-day ?
I would like to have that say of me when I be dead ; '' and Franz felt with regret that he have not appreciate Uncle John enough .
`` What do they say ? ''
ask Jack , who have be much impress by the scene of the day .
`` Why , one of the partner of Mr. Laurence , where Uncle John have be ever so long , be say that he be conscientious almost to a fault a a business man , and above reproach in all thing .
Another gentleman say no money could repay the fidelity and honesty with which Uncle John have serve him , and then Grandpa tell them the best of all .
Uncle John once have a place in the office of a man who cheat , and when this man want uncle to help him do it , uncle would n't , though he be offer a big salary .
The man be angry and say , ` You will never get on in business with such strict principle ; ' and uncle answer back , ' I never will try to get on without them , ' and leave the place for a much harder and poor one . ''
`` Good ! ''
cried several of the boy warmly , for they be in the mood to understand and value the little story a never before .
`` He be n't rich , be he ? ''
ask Jack .
`` No . ''
`` He never do any thing to make a stir in the world , do he ? ''
`` No . ''
`` He be only good ? ''
`` That 's all ; '' and Franz find himself wish that Uncle John have do something to boast of , for it be evident that Jack be disappoint by his reply .
`` Only good .
That be all and every thing , '' say Mr. Bhaer , who have overhear the last few word , and guess what be go on the mind of the lad .
`` Let me tell you a little about John Brooke , and you will see why men honor him , and why he be satisfy to be good rather than rich or famous .
He simply do his duty in all thing , and do it so cheerfully , so faithfully , that it keep him patient and brave , and happy through poverty and loneliness and year of hard work .
He be a good son , and give up his own plan to stay and live with his mother while she need him .
He be a good friend , and teach Laurie much beside his Greek and Latin , do it unconsciously , perhaps , by show him an example of an upright man .
He be a faithful servant , and make himself so valuable to those who employ him that they will find it hard to fill his place .
He be a good husband and father , so tender , wise , and thoughtful , that Laurie and I learn much of him , and only know how well he love his family , when we discover all he have do for them , unsuspected and unassisted . ''
Mr. Bhaer stop a minute , and the boy sit like statue in the moonlight until he go on again , in a subdued , but earnest voice : `` As he lay die , I say to him , ` Have no care for Meg and the little one ; I will see that they never want . '
Then he smile and press my hand , and answer , in his cheerful way , ` No need of that ; I have care for them . '
And so he have , for when we look among his paper , all be in order , not a debt remain ; and safely put away be enough to keep Meg comfortable and independent .
Then we know why he have live so plainly , deny himself so many pleasure , except that of charity , and work so hard that I fear he shorten his good life .
He never ask help for himself , though often for others , but bore his own burden and work out his own task bravely and quietly .
No one can say a word of complaint against him , so just and generous and kind be he ; and now , when he be go , all find so much to love and praise and honor , that I be proud to have be his friend , and would rather leave my child the legacy he leave his than the large fortune ever make .
Yes !
Simple , generous goodness be the best capital to find the business of this life upon .
It last when fame and money fail , and be the only riches we can take out of this world with u .
Remember that , my boy ; and if you want to earn respect and confidence and love follow in the footstep of John Brooke . ''
When Demi return to school , after some week at home , he seem to have recover from his loss with the blessed elasticity of childhood , and so he have in a measure ; but he do not forget , for his be a nature into which thing sink deeply , to be ponder over , and absorb into the soil where the small virtue be grow fast .
He play and study , work and sing , just a before , and few suspect any change ; but there be one and Aunt Jo saw it for she watch over the boy with her whole heart , try to fill John 's place in her poor way .
He seldom speak of his loss , but Aunt Jo often hear a stifled sobbing in the little bed at night ; and when she go to comfort him , all his cry be , `` I want my father !
oh , I want my father ! ''
for the tie between the two have be a very tender one , and the child 's heart bleed when it be break .
But time be kind to him , and slowly he come to feel that father be not lose , only invisible for a while , and sure to be find again , well and strong and fond a ever , even though his little son should see the purple aster blossom on his grave many , many time before they meet .
To this belief Demi hold fast , and in it find both help and comfort , because it lead him unconsciously through a tender longing for the father whom he have see to a childlike trust in the Father whom he have not see .
Both be in heaven , and he pray to both , try to be good for love of them .
The outward change correspond to the inward , for in those few week Demi seem to have grow tall , and begin to drop his childish play , not a if ashamed of them , a some boy do , but a if he have outgrow them , and want something manlier .
He take to the hat arithmetic , and hold on so steadily that his uncle be charm , though he could not understand the whim , until Demi say , `` I be go to be a bookkeeper when I grow up , like papa , and I must know about figure and thing , else I ca n't have nice , neat ledger like his . ''
At another time he come to his aunt with a very serious face , and say `` What can a small boy do to earn money ? ''
`` Why do you ask , my deary ? ''
`` My father tell me to take care of mother and the little girl , and I want to , but I do n't know how to begin . ''
`` He do not mean now , Demi , but by and by , when you be large . ''
`` But I wish to begin now , if I can , because I think I ought to make some money to buy thing for the family .
I be ten , and other boy no big than I earn penny sometimes . ''
`` Well , then , suppose you rake up all the dead leaf and cover the strawberry bed .
I 'll pay you a dollar for the job , '' say Aunt Jo .
`` Is n't that a great deal ?
I could do it in one day .
You must be fair , and no pay too much , because I want to truly earn it . ''
`` My little John , I will be fair , and not pay a penny too much .
Do n't work too hard ; and when that be do I will have something else for you to do , '' say Mrs. Jo , much touch by his desire to help , and his sense of justice , so like his scrupulous father .
When the leaf be do , many barrowloads of chip be wheel from the wood to the shed , and another dollar earn .
Then Demi help cover the schoolbook , work in the evening under Franz 's direction , tug patiently away at each book , let no one help , and receive his wage with such satisfaction that the dingy bill become quite glorify in his sight .
`` Now , I have a dollar for each of them , and I should like to take my money to mother all myself , so she can see that I have mind my father . ''
So Demi make a duteous pilgrimage to his mother , who receive his little earnings a a treasure of great worth , and would have keep it untouched , if Demi have not beg her to buy some useful thing for herself and the women-children , whom he felt be leave to his care .
This make him very happy , and , though he often forget his responsibility for a time , the desire to help be still there , strengthen with his year .
He always utter the word `` my father '' with an air of gentle pride , and often say , a if he claim a title full of honor , `` Do n't call me Demi any more .
I be John Brooke now . ''
So , strengthen by a purpose and a hope , the little lad of ten bravely begin the world , and enter into his inheritance , the memory of a wise and tender father , the legacy of an honest name .
CHAPTER XX .
ROUND THE FIRE With the October frost come the cheery fire in the great fireplace ; and Demi 's dry pine-chips help Dan 's oak-knots to blaze royally , and go roar up the chimney with a jolly sound .
All be glad to gather round the hearth , a the evening grow longer , to play game , read , or lay plan for the winter .
But the favorite amusement be story-telling , and Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer be expect to have a store of lively tale always on hand .
Their supply occasionally give out , and then the boy be throw upon their own resource , which be not always successful .
Ghost-parties be the rage at one time ; for the fun of the thing consist in put out the light , let the fire die down , and then sit in the dark , and tell the most awful tale they could invent .
As this result in scare of all sort among the boy , Tommy 's walking in his sleep on the shed roof , and a general state of nervousness in the little one , it be forbid , and they fell back on more harmless amusement .
One evening , when the small boy be snugly tuck in bed , and the old lad be lounge about the school-room fire , try to decide what they should do , Demi suggest a new way of settle the question .
Seizing the hearth-brush , he march up and down the room , say , `` Row , row , row ; '' and when the boy , laugh and push , have get into line , he say , `` Now , I 'll give you two minute to think of a play . ''
Franz be write , and Emil read the Life of Lord Nelson , and neither join the party , but the others think hard , and when the time be up be ready to reply .
`` Now , Tom ! ''
and the poker softly rap him on the head .
`` Blind-man 's Buff . ''
`` Jack ! ''
`` Commerce ; a good round game , and have cent for the pool . ''
`` Uncle forbids our play for money .
Dan , what do you want ? ''
`` Let 's have a battle between the Greeks and Romans . ''
`` Stuffy ? ''
`` Roast apple , pop corn , and crack nut . ''
`` Good !
good ! ''
cried several ; and when the vote be take , Stuffy 's proposal carry the day .
Some go to the cellar for apple , some to the garret for nut , and others look up the popper and the corn .
`` We have well ask the girl to come in , have n't we ? ''
say Demi , in a sudden fit of politeness .
`` Daisy prick chestnuts beautifully , '' put in Nat , who want his little friend to share the fun .
`` Nan pop corn tip-top , we must have her , '' add Tommy .
`` Bring in your sweetheart then , we do n't mind , '' say Jack , who laugh at the innocent regard the little people have for one another .
`` You sha n't call my sister a sweetheart ; it be so silly ! ''
cry Demi , in a way that make Jack laugh .
`` She be Nat 's darling , be n't she , old chirper ? ''
`` Yes , if Demi do n't mind .
I ca n't help be fond of her , she be so good to me , '' answer Nat , with bashful earnestness , for Jack 's rough way disturb him .
`` Nan be my sweetheart , and I shall marry her in about a year , so do n't you get in the way , any of you , '' say Tommy , stoutly ; for he and Nan have settle their future , child-fashion , and be to live in the willow , low down a basket for food , and do other charmingly impossible thing .
Demi be quench by the decision of Bangs , who take him by the arm and walk him off to get the lady .
Nan and Daisy be sew with Aunt Jo on certain small garment , for Mrs. Carney 's new baby .
`` Please , ma'am , could you lend u the girl for a little while ?
We 'll be very careful of them , '' say Tommy , wink one eye to express apple , snap his finger to signify pop-corn , and gnash his teeth to convey the idea of nut-cracking .
The girl understand this pantomime at once , and begin to pull of their thimble before Mrs. Jo could decide whether Tommy be go into convulsion or be brew some unusual piece of mischief .
Demi explain with elaboration , permission be readily grant , and the boy depart with their prize .
`` Do n't you speak to Jack , '' whisper Tommy , a he and Nan promenade down the hall to get a fork to prick the apple .
`` Why not ? ''
`` He laugh at me , so I do n't wish you to have any thing to do with him . ''
`` Shall , if I like , '' say Nan , promptly resent this premature assumption of authority on the part of her lord .
`` Then I wo n't have you for my sweetheart . ''
`` I do n't care . ''
`` Why , Nan , I think you be fond of me ! ''
and Tommy 's voice be full of tender reproach .
`` If you mind Jack 's laughing I do n't care for you one bit . ''
`` Then you may take back your old ring ; I wo n't wear it any longer ; '' and Tommy pluck off a horsehair pledge of affection which Nan have give him in return for one made of a lobster 's feeler .
`` I shall give it to Ned , '' be her cruel reply ; for Ned like Mrs. Giddy-gaddy , and have turn her clothespin , box , and spool enough to set up housekeep with .
Tommy say , `` Thunder turtle ! ''
a the only vent equal to the pent-up anguish of the moment , and , drop Nan 's arm , retire in high dudgeon , leave her to follow with the fork , a neglect which naughty Nan punish by proceed to prick his heart with jealousy a if it be another sort of apple .
The hearth be sweep , and the rosy Baldwins put down to roast .
A shovel be heat , and the chestnut dance merrily upon it , while the corn pop wildly in it wire prison .
Dan crack his best walnut , and every one chatter and laugh , while the rain beat on the window-pane and the wind howl round the house .
`` Why be Billy like this nut ? ''
ask Emil , who be frequently inspire with bad conundrum .
`` Because he be crack , '' answer Ned .
`` That 's not fair ; you must n't make fun of Billy , because he ca n't hit back again .
It 's mean , '' cry Dan , smash a nut wrathfully .
`` To what family of insect do Blake belong ? ''
ask peacemaker Franz , see that Emil look ashamed and Dan lowering .
`` Gnats , '' answer Jack .
`` Why be Daisy like a bee ? ''
cry Nat , who have be wrapt in thought for several minute .
`` Because she be queen of the hive , '' say Dan .
`` No . ''
`` Because she be sweet . ''
`` Bees be not sweet . ''
`` Give it up . ''
`` Because she make sweet thing , be always busy , and like flower , '' say Nat , pile up his boyish compliment till Daisy blush like a rosy clover .
`` Why be Nan like a hornet ? ''
demand Tommy , glower at her , and add , without give any one time to answer , `` Because she be n't sweet , make a great buzzing about nothing , and sting like fury . ''
`` Tommy 's mad , and I 'm glad , '' cry Ned , a Nan toss her head and answered quickly , `` What thing in the china-closet be Tom like ? ''
`` A pepper pot , '' answer Ned , give Nan a nut meat with a tantalize laugh that make Tommy feel a if he would like to bounce up like a hot chestnut and hit somebody .
Seeing that ill-humor be get the good of the small supply of wit in the company , Franz cast himself into the breach again .
`` Let 's make a law that the first person who come into the room shall tell u a story .
No matter who it be , he must do it , and it will be fun to see who come first . ''
The others agree , and do not have to wait long , for a heavy step soon come clump through the hall , and Silas appear , bear an armful of wood .
He be greet by a general shout , and stand star about him with a bewildered grin on his big red face , till Franz explain the joke .
`` Sho !
I ca n't tell a story , '' he say , put down his load and prepare to leave the room .
But the boy fell upon him , force him into a seat , and hold him there , laugh , and clamor for their story , till the good-natured giant be overpower .
`` I do n't know but jest one story , and that 's about a horse , '' he say , much flatter by the reception he receive .
`` Tell it !
tell it ! ''
cry the boy .
`` Wal , '' begin Silas , tip his chair back against the wall , and put his thumb in the arm-holes of his waistcoat , `` I jined a cavalry regiment durin ' the war , and see a consid ` able amount of fightin ' .
My horse , Major , be a fust-rate animal , and I be a fond on him a ef he 'd ben a human critter .
He war n't harnsome , but he be the best-tempered , stiddyest , lovenest brute I ever see .
I fust battle we go into , he give me a lesson that I do n't forgit in a hurry , and I 'll tell you how it be .
It ai n't no use tryin ' to picter the noise and hurry , and general horridness of a battle to you young feller , for I ai n't no word to do it in ; but I 'm free to confess that I get so sort of confused and upset at the fust on it , that I do n't know what I be about .
We be order to charge , and go ahead like good one , never stoppin ' to pick up them that go down in the scrimmage .
I get a shot in the arm , and be pitch out of the saddle do n't know how , but there I be leave behind with two or three others , dead and wound , for the rest go on , a I say .
Wal , I pick myself up and look round for Major , feel a ef I 'd have about enough for that spell .
I do n't see him nowhere , and be kinder walk back to camp , when I hear a whinny that sound nateral .
I look round , and there be Major stop for me a long way off , and lookin ' a ef he do n't understand why I be loiterin ' behind .
I whistle , and he trot up to me a I 'd train him to do .
I mount as well a I could with my left arm bleedin ' and be for go on to camp , for I declare I felt a sick and wimbly a a woman ; folk often do in their fust battle .
But , no sir !
Major be the brave of the two , and he would n't go , not a peg ; he jest rared up , and dance , and snort , and act a ef the smell of powder and the noise have drive him half wild .
I do my best , but he would n't give in , so I do ; and what do you think that plucky brute do ?
He wheel slap round , and gallop back like a hurricane , right into the thickest of the scrimmage ! ''
`` Good for him ! ''
cry Dan excitedly , while the other boy forget apple and nut in their interest .
`` I wish I may die ef I war n't ashamed of myself , '' continue Silas , warm up at the recollection of that day .
`` I be mad a a hornet , and I forget my waound , and jest pitch in , rampagin ' raound like fury till there come a shell into the midst of u , and in bustin ' knock a lot of u flat .
I do n't know nothin ' for a spell , and when I come-to , the fight be over just there , and I find myself layin ' by a wall of poor Major long-side wuss wound than I be .
My leg be break , and I have a ball in my shoulder , but he , poor old feller !
be all tore in the side with a piece of that blast shell . ''
`` O Silas !
what do you do ? ''
cry Nan , press close to him with a face full of eager sympathy and interest .
`` I drag myself nigher , and try to stop the bleedin ' with sech rag a I could tear off of me with one hand .
But it war n't no use , and he lay moanin ' with horrid pain , and lookin ' at me with them lovin ' eye of his , till I think I could n't bear it .
I give him all the help I could , and when the sun get hotter and hotter , and he begin to lap out his tongue , I try to get to a brook that be a good piece away , but I could n't do it , be stiff and faint , so I give it up and fan him with my hat .
Now you listen to this , and when you hear folk comin ' down on the reb , you jest remember what one on 'em do , and give him credit of it .
I poor feller in gray lay not fur off , shot through the lung and dyin ' fast .
I 'd offer him my handkerchief to keep the sun off his face , and he 'd thank me kindly , for in sech time a that men do n't stop to think on which side they belong , but jest buckle-to and help one another .
When he see me mournin ' over Major and tryin ' to ease his pain , he look up with his face all damp and white with sufferin ' , and sez he , ` There 's water in my canteen ; take it , for it ca n't help me , ' and he fling it to me .
I could n't have take it ef I have n't have a little brandy in a pocket flask , and I make him drink it .
It do him good , and I felt as much set up a if I 'd drink it myself .
It 's surprisin ' the good sech little thing do folk sometime ; '' and Silas pause a if he felt again the comfort of that moment when he and his enemy forget their feud , and help one another like brother .
`` Tell about Major , '' cry the boy , impatient for the catastrophe .
`` I pour the water over his poor pantin ' tongue , and ef ever a dumb critter look grateful , he do then .
But it war n't of much use , for the dreadful waound kep on tormentin ' him , till I could n't bear it any longer .
It be hard , but I do it in mercy , and I know he forgive me . ''
`` What do you do ? ''
ask Emil , a Silas stop abruptly with a loud `` hem , '' and a look in his rough face that make Daisy go and stand by him with her little hand on his knee .
`` I shoot him . ''
Quite a thrill go through the listener a Silas say that , for Major seem a hero in their eye , and his tragic end rouse all their sympathy .
`` Yes , I shoot him , and put him out of his misery .
I pat him fust , and say , ` Good-by ; ' then I lay his head easy on the grass , give a last look into his lovin ' eye , and send a bullet through his head .
He hardly stir , I aim so true , and when I see him quite still , with no more moanin ' and pain , I be glad , and yet wal , I do n't know a I need by ashamed o n't I jest put my arm raound his neck and boo-hooed like a great baby .
Sho !
I do n't know I be sech a fool ; '' and Silas draw his sleeve across his eye , a much touch by Daisy 's sob , a by the memory of faithful Major .
No one spoke for a minute , because the boy be a quick to feel the pathos of the little story a tender-hearted Daisy , though they do not show it by cry .
`` I 'd like a horse like that , '' say Dan , half-aloud .
`` Did the rebel man die , too ? ''
ask Nan , anxiously .
`` Not then .
We lay there all day , and at night some of our feller come to look after the missing one .
They nat ` rally want to take me fust , but I know I could wait , and the rebel have but one chance , maybe , so I make them carry him off right away .
He have jest strength enough to hold out his hand to me and say , ` Thanky , comrade ! '
and them be the last word he speak , for he die an hour after he get to the hospital-tent . ''
`` How glad you must have be that you be kind to him ! ''
say Demi , who be deeply impress by this story .
`` Wal , I do take comfort thinkin ' of it , a I lay there alone for a number of hour with my head on Major 's neck , and see the moon come up .
I 'd like to have bury the poor beast decent , but it war n't possible ; so I cut off a bit of his mane , and I 've kep it ever sence .
Want to see it , sissy ? ''
`` Oh , yes , please , '' answer Daisy , wipe away her tear to look .
Silas take out an old `` wallet '' a he call his pocket-book , and produce from an inner fold a bit of brown paper , in which be a rough lock of white horse-hair .
The child look at it silently , a it lay in the broad palm , and no one find any thing to ridicule in the love Silas bore his good horse Major .
`` That be a sweet story , and I like it , though it do make me cry .
Thank you very much , Si , '' and Daisy help him fold and put away his little relic ; while Nan stuff a handful of pop-corn into his pocket , and the boy loudly express their flattering opinion of his story , feel that there have be two hero in it .
He depart , quite overcome by his honor , and the little conspirator talk the tale over , while they wait for their next victim .
It be Mrs. Jo , who come in to measure Nan for some new pinafore she be make for her .
They let her get well in , and then pounce upon her , tell her the law , and demand the story .
Mrs. Jo be very much amuse at the new trap , and consent at once , for the sound of happy voice have be come across the hall so pleasantly that she quite long to join them , and forget her own anxious thought of Sister Meg .
`` Am I the first mouse you have catch , you sly pussies-in-boots ? ''
she ask , a she be conduct to the big chair , supply with refreshment , and surround by a flock of merry-faced listener .
They tell her about Silas and his contribution , and she slap her forehead in despair , for she be quite at her wit ' end , be call upon so unexpectedly for a bran new tale .
`` What shall I tell about ? ''
she say .
`` Boys , '' be the general answer .
`` Have a party in it , '' say Daisy .
`` And something good to eat , '' add Stuffy .
`` That remind me of a story , write year ago , by a dear old lady .
I use to be very fond of it , and I fancy you will like it , for it have both boy , and ` something good to eat ' in it . ''
`` What be it call ? ''
ask Demi . ''
` The Suspected Boy . ' ''
Nat look up from the nut he be pick , and Mrs. Jo smile at him , guess what be in his mind .
`` Miss Crane keep a school for boy in a quiet little town , and a very good school it be , of the old-fashioned sort .
Six boys live in her house , and four or five more come in from the town .
Among those who live with her be one name Lewis White .
Lewis be not a bad boy , but rather timid , and now and then he tell a lie .
One day a neighbor send Miss Crane a basket of gooseberry .
There be not enough to go round , so kind Miss Crane , who like to please her boy , go to work and make a dozen nice little gooseberry tart . ''
`` I 'd like to try gooseberry tart .
I wonder if she make them a I do my raspberry one , '' say Daisy , whose interest in cook have lately revive .
`` Hush , '' say Nat , tuck a plump pop-corn into her mouth to silence her , for he felt a particular interest in this tale , and think it open well .
`` When the tart be do , Miss Crane put them away in the best parlor closet , and say not a word about them , for she want to surprise the boy at tea-time .
When the minute come and all be seat at table , she go to get her tart , but come back look much troubled , for what do you think have happen ? ''
`` Somebody have hook them ! ''
cry Ned .
`` No , there they be , but some one have steal all the fruit out of them by lift up the upper crust and then put it down after the gooseberry have be scrap out . ''
`` What a mean trick ! ''
and Nan look at Tommy , a if to imply that he would do the same .
`` When she tell the boy her plan and show them the poor little patty all robbed of their sweetness , the boy be much grieve and disappoint , and all declare that they know nothing about the matter .
` Perhaps the rat do it , ' say Lewis , who be among the loud to deny any knowledge of the tart .
` No , rat would have nibble crust and all , and never lift it up and scoop out the fruit .
Hands do that , ' say Miss Crane , who be more troubled about the lie that some one must have tell than about her lost patty .
Well , they have supper and go to bed , but in the night Miss Crane hear some one groaning , and go to see who it be she find Lewis in great pain .
He have evidently eat something that disagree with him , and be so sick that Miss Crane be alarm , and be go to send for the doctor , when Lewis moan out , ` It 's the gooseberry ; I eat them , and I must tell before I die , ' for the thought of a doctor frighten him .
` If that be all , I 'll give you an emetic and you will soon get over it , ' say Miss Crane .
So Lewis have a good dose , and by morning be quite comfortable .
` Oh , do n't tell the boy ; they will laugh at me so , ' beg the invalid .
Kind Miss Crane promise not to , but Sally , the girl , tell the story , and poor Lewis have no peace for a long time .
His mate call him Old Gooseberry , and be never tire of ask him the price of tart . ''
`` Served him right , '' say Emil .
`` Badness always get find out , '' add Demi , morally .
`` No , it do n't , '' mutter Jack , who be tend the apple with great devotion , so that he might keep his back to the rest and account for his red face .
`` Is that all ? ''
ask Dan .
`` No , that be only the first part ; the second part be more interesting .
Some time after this a peddler come by one day and stop to show his thing to the boy , several of whom buy pocket-combs , jew 's - harp , and various trifle of that sort .
Among the knife be a little white-handled penknife that Lewis want very much , but he have spend all his pocket-money , and no one have any to lend him .
He hold the knife in his hand , admiring and longing for it , till the man pack up his good to go , then he reluctantly lay it down , and the man go on his way .
The next day , however , the peddler return to say that he could not find that very knife , and think he must have leave it at Miss Crane 's .
It be a very nice one with a pearl handle , and he could not afford to lose it .
Every one look , and every one declare they know nothing about it .
` This young gentleman have it last , and seem to want it very much .
Are you quite sure you put it back ? '
say the man to Lewis , who be much trouble at the loss , and vow over and over again that he do return it .
His denial seem to do no good , however , for every one be sure he have take it , and after a stormy scene Miss Crane pay for it , and the man go grumble away . ''
`` Did Lewis have it ? ''
cry Nat , much excite .
`` You will see .
Now poor Lewis have another trial to bear , for the boy be constantly say , ` Lend me your pearl-handled knife , Gooseberry , ' and thing of that sort , till Lewis be so unhappy he beg to be send home .
Miss Crane do her best to keep the boy quiet , but it be hard work , for they would tease , and she could not be with them all the time .
That be one of the hard thing to teach boy ; they wo n't ` hit a fellow when he be down , ' a they say , but they will torment him in little way till he would thank them to fight it out all round . ''
`` I know that , '' say Dan .
`` So do I , '' add Nat , softly .
Jack say nothing , but he quite agree ; for he know that the elder boy despise him , and let him alone for that very reason .
`` Do go on about poor Lewis , Aunt Jo .
I do n't believe he take the knife , but I want to be sure , '' say Daisy , in great anxiety .
`` Well , week after week go on and the matter be not clear up .
The boy avoid Lewis , and he , poor fellow , be almost sick with the trouble he have bring upon himself .
He resolve never to tell another lie , and try so hard that Miss Crane pity and help him , and really come at last to believe that he do not take the knife .
Two month after the peddler 's first visit , he come again , and the first thing he say be , '' ` Well , ma'am , I find that knife after all .
It have slip behind the lining of my valise , and fell out the other day when I be put in a new stock of good .
I think I 'd call and let you know , a you pay for it , and maybe would like it , so here it be . ' ''
`` The boy have all gather round , and at these word they felt much ashamed , and beg Lewis ' pardon so heartily that he could not refuse to give it .
Miss Crane present the knife to him , and he keep it many year to remind him of the fault that have bring him so much trouble . ''
`` I wonder why it be that thing you eat on the sly hurt you , and do n't when you eat them at table , '' observe Stuffy , thoughtfully .
`` Perhaps your conscience affect your stomach , '' say Mrs. Jo , smile at his speech .
`` He be think of the cucumber , '' say Ned , and a gale of merriment follow the word , for Stuffy 's last mishap have be a funny one .
He eat two large cucumber in private , felt very ill , and confide his anguish to Ned , implore him to do something .
Ned good-naturedly recommend a mustard plaster and a hot flat iron to the foot ; only in apply these remedy he reverse the order of thing , and put the plaster on the foot , the flat iron on the stomach , and poor Stuffy be find in the barn with blistered sol and a scorched jacket .
`` Suppose you tell another story , that be such an interest one , '' say Nat , a the laughter subside .
Before Mrs. Jo could refuse these insatiable Oliver Twists , Rob walk into the room trail his little bed-cover after him , and wear an expression of great sweetness a he say , steer straight to his mother a a sure haven of refuge , `` I hear a great noise , and I think sumfin dreffle might have happen , so I come to see . ''
`` Did you think I would forget you , naughty boy ? ''
ask his mother , try to look stern .
`` No ; but I think you 'd feel good to see me right here , '' respond the insinuating little party .
`` I have much rather see you in bed , so march straight up again , Robin . ''
`` Everybody that come in here have to tell a story , and you ca n't so you 'd better cut and run , '' say Emil .
`` Yes , I can !
I tell Teddy lot of one , all about bear and moon , and little fly that say thing when they buzz , '' protest Rob , bound to stay at any price .
`` Tell one now , then , right away , '' say Dan , prepare to shoulder and bear him off .
`` Well , I will ; let me fink a minute , '' and Rob climb into his mother 's lap , where he be cuddle , with the remark `` It be a family failing , this get out of bed at wrong time .
Demi use to do it ; and a for me , I be hop in and out all night long .
Meg use to think the house be on fire , and send me down to see , and I use to stay and enjoy myself , a you mean to , my bad son . ''
`` I 've fink now , '' observe Rob , quite at his ease , and eager to win the entree into this delightful circle .
Every one look and listen with face full of suppressed merriment a Rob , perch on his mother 's knee and wrap in the gay coverlet , tell the following brief but tragic tale with an earnestness that make it very funny : `` Once a lady have a million child , and one nice little boy .
She go up-stairs and say , ` You must n't go in the yard . '
But he wented , and fell into the pump , and be drown dead . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
ask Franz , a Rob pause out of breath with this startle beginning .
`` No , there be another piece of it , '' and Rob knit his downy eyebrows in the effort to evolve another inspiration .
`` What do the lady do when he fell into the pump ? ''
ask his mother , to help him on .
`` Oh , she pump him up , and wrap him in a newspaper , and put him on a shelf to dry for seed . ''
A general explosion of laughter greet this surprising conclusion , and Mrs. Jo pat the curly head , a she say , solemnly , `` My son , you inherit your mother 's gift of story-telling .
Go where glory wait thee . ''
`` Now I can stay , ca n't I ?
Was n't it a good story ? ''
cry Rob , in high feather at his superb success .
`` You can stay till you have eat these twelve pop-corns , '' say his mother , expect to see them vanish at one mouthful .
But Rob be a shrewd little man , and get the good of her by eat them one by one very slowly , and enjoy every minute with all his might .
`` Had n't you good tell the other story , while you wait for him ? ''
say Demi , anxious that no time should be lose .
`` I really have nothing but a little tale about a wood-box , '' say Mrs. Jo , see that Rob have still seven corn to eat .
`` Is there a boy in it ? ''
`` It be all boy . ''
`` Is it true ? ''
ask Demi .
`` Every bit of it . ''
`` Goody !
tell on , please . ''
`` James Snow and his mother live in a little house , up in New Hampshire .
They be poor , and James have to work to help his mother , but he love book so well he hat work , and just want to sit and study all day long . ''
`` How could he !
I hate book , and like work , '' say Dan , object to James at the very outset .
`` It take all sort of people to make a world ; worker and student both be need , and there be room for all .
But I think the worker should study some , and the student should know how to work if necessary , '' answer Mrs. Jo , look from Dan to Demi with a significant expression .
`` I 'm sure I do work , '' and Demi show three small hard spot in his little palm , with pride .
`` And I 'm sure I study , '' add Dan , nod with a groan toward the blackboard full of neat figure .
`` See what James do .
He do not mean to be selfish , but his mother be proud of him , and let him do a he like , work by herself that he might have book and time to read them .
One autumn James want to go to school , and go to the minister to see if he would help him , about decent clothes and book .
Now the minister have hear the gossip about James 's idleness , and be not incline to do much for him , think that a boy who neglect his mother , and let her slave for him , be not likely to do very well even at school .
But the good man felt more interested when he find how earnest James be , and be rather an odd man , he make this proposal to the boy , to try now sincere he be . '' '
I will give you clothes and book on one condition , James . ' ''
` What be that , sir ? '
and the boy brighten up at once . ''
` You be to keep your mother 's wood-box full all winter long , and do it yourself .
If you fail , school stop . '
James laugh at the queer condition and readily agree to it , think it a very easy one .
`` He begin school , and for a time get on capitally with the wood-box , for it be autumn , and chip and brushwood be plentiful .
He run out morning and evening and get a basket full , or chop up the cat stick for the little cooking stove , and a his mother be careful and saving , the task be not hard .
But in November the frost come , the day be dull and cold , and wood go fast .
His mother buy a load with her own earnings , but it seem to melt away , and be nearly go , before James remember that he be to get the next .
Mrs . Snow be feeble and lame with rheumatism , and unable to work a she have do , so James have to put down the book , and see what he could do .
`` It be hard , for he be go on well , and so interested in his lesson that he hat to stop except for food and sleep .
But he know the minister would keep his word , and much against his will James set about earn money in his spare hour , lest the wood-box should get empty .
He do all sort of thing , run errand , take care of a neighbor 's cow , help the old sexton dust and warm the church on Sundays , and in these way get enough to buy fuel in small quantity .
But it be hard work ; the day be short , the winter be bitterly cold , and precious time go fast , and the dear book be so fascinating , that it be sad to leave them , for dull duty that never seem do .
`` The minister watch him quietly , and see that he be in earnest help him without his knowledge .
He meet him often drive the wood sled from the forest , where the men be chop and a James plod beside the slow ox , he read or study , anxious to use every minute .
` The boy be worth help , this lesson will do him good , and when he have learn it , I will give him an easy one , ' say the minister to himself , and on Christmas eve a splendid load of wood be quietly drop at the door of the little house , with a new saw and a bit of paper , say only , '' ` The Lord help those who help themselves . '
`` Poor James expect nothing , but when he wake on that cold Christmas morning , he find a pair of warm mitten , knit by his mother , with her stiff painful finger .
This gift please him very much , but her kiss and tender look a she call him her ` good son , ' be well still .
In try to keep her warm , he have warm his own heart , you see , and in fill the wood-box he have also fill those month with duty faithfully do .
He begin to see this , to feel that there be something good than book , and to try to learn the lesson God set him , as well a those his school-master give .
`` When he saw the great pile of oak and pine log at his door , and read the little paper , he know who send it , and understand the minister 's plan ; thank him for it , and fell to work with all his might .
Other boy frolic that day , but James saw wood , and I think of all the lad in the town the happiest be the one in the new mitten , who whistle like a blackbird a he fill his mother 's wood-box . ''
`` That 's a first rater ! ''
cried Dan , who enjoy a simple matter-of-face story well than the fine fairy tale ; `` I like that fellow after all . ''
`` I could saw wood for you , Aunt Jo ! ''
say Demi , feeling a if a new mean of earn money for his mother be suggest by the story .
`` Tell about a bad boy .
I like them best , '' say Nan .
`` You 'd better tell about a naughty cross-patch of a girl , '' say Tommy , whose evening have be spoil by Nan 's unkindness .
It make his apple taste bitter , his pop-corn be insipid , his nut be hard to crack , and the sight of Ned and Nan on one bench make him feel his life a burden .
But there be no more story from Mrs. Jo , for on look down at Rob he be discover to be fast asleep with his last corn firmly clasp in his chubby hand .
Bundling him up in his coverlet , his mother carry him away and tuck him up with no fear of his pop out again .
`` Now let 's see who will come next , '' say Emil , set the door temptingly ajar .
Mary Ann pass first , and he call out to her , but Silas have warn her , and she only laugh and hurry on in spite of their enticement .
Presently a door open , and a strong voice be hear humming in the hall , `` Ich weiss nicht be soll es bedeuten Dass ich so traurig bin . ''
`` It 's Uncle Fritz ; all laugh loud and he will be sure to come in , '' say Emil .
A wild burst of laughter follow , and in come Uncle Fritz , ask , `` What be the joke , my lad ? ''
`` Caught !
caught !
you ca n't go out till you 've tell a story , '' cry the boy , slam the door .
`` So !
that be the joke then ?
Well , I have no wish to go , it be so pleasant here , and I pay my forfeit at once , '' which he do by sit down and begin instantly , `` A long time ago your Grandfather , Demi , go to lecture in a great town , hop to get some money for a home for little orphan that some good people be get up .
His lecture do well , and he put a considerable sum of money in his pocket , feel very happy about it .
As he be drive in a chaise to another town , he come to a lonely bit of road , late in the afternoon , and be just think what a good place it be for robber when he saw a bad-looking man come out of the wood in front of him and go slowly along a if wait till he come up .
The thought of the money make Grandfather rather anxious , and at first he have a mind to turn round and drive away .
But the horse be tire , and then he do not like to suspect the man , so he keep on , and when he get nearer and saw how poor and sick and rag the stranger look , his heart reproach him , and stopping , he say in a kind voice , '' ` My friend , you look tire ; let me give you a lift . '
The man seem surprised , hesitate a minute , and then get in .
He do not seem incline to talk , but Grandfather keep on in his wise , cheerful way , speaking of what a hard year it have be , how much the poor have suffer , and how difficult it be to get on sometimes .
The man slowly soften a little , and win by the kind chat , tell his story .
How he have be sick , could get no work , have a family of child , and be almost in despair .
Grandfather be so full of pity that he forget his fear , and , ask the man his name , say he would try to get him work in the next town , a he have friend there .
Wishing to get at pencil and paper to write down the address , Grandfather take out his plump pocket-book , and the minute he do so , the man 's eye be on it .
Then Grandfather remember what be in it and tremble for his money , but say quietly , '' ` Yes , I have a little sum here for some poor orphan .
I wish it be my own , I would so gladly give you some of it .
I be not rich , but I know many of the trial of the poor ; this five dollar be mine , and I want to give it to you for your child . '
`` The hard , hungry look in the man 's eye change to a grateful one a he take the small sum , freely give , and leave the orphan ' money untouched .
He ride on with Grandfather till they approach the town , then he ask to be set down .
Grandpa shake hand with him , and be about to drive on , when the man say , a if something make him , ' I be desperate when we meet , and I mean to rob you , but you be so kind I could n't do it .
God bless you , sir , for keep me from it ! ' ''
`` Did Grandpa ever see him again ? ''
ask Daisy , eagerly .
`` No ; but I believe the man find work , and do not try robbery any more . ''
`` That be a curious way to treat him ; I 'd have knock him down , '' say Dan .
`` Kindness be always good than force .
Try it and see , '' answer Mr. Bhaer , rise .
`` Tell another , please , '' cry Daisy .
`` You must , Aunt Jo do , '' add Demi .
`` Then I certainly wo n't , but keep my others for next time .
Too many tale be as bad a too many bonbon .
I have pay my forfeit and I go , '' and Mr. Bhaer run for his life , with the whole flock in full pursuit .
He have the start , however , and escape safely into his study , leave the boy to go riot back again .
They be so stir up by the race that they could not settle to their former quiet , and a lively game of Blindman 's Buff follow , in which Tommy show that he have take the moral of the last story to heart , for , when he catch Nan , he whisper in her ear , `` I 'm sorry I call you a cross-patch . ''
Nan be not to be outdo in kindness , so , when they play `` Button , button , who 's get the button ? ''
and it be her turn to go round , she say , `` Hold fast all I give you , '' with such a friendly smile at Tommy , that he be not surprise to find the horse-hair ring in his hand instead of the button .
He only smile back at her then , but when they be go to bed , he offer Nan the best bite of his last apple ; she saw the ring on his stumpy little finger , accept the bite , and peace be declare .
Both be ashamed of the temporary coldness , neither be ashamed to say , `` I be wrong , forgive me , '' so the childish friendship remain unbroken , and the home in the willow last long , a pleasant little castle in the air .
CHAPTER XXI .
THANKSGIVING This yearly festival be always keep at Plumfield in the good old-fashioned way , and nothing be allow to interfere with it .
For day beforehand , the little girl help Asia and Mrs. Jo in store-room and kitchen , make pie and pudding , sort fruit , dust dish , and be very busy and immensely important .
The boy hover on the outskirt of the forbidden ground , sniff the savory odor , peep in at the mysterious performance , and occasionally be permit to taste some delicacy in the process of preparation .
Something more than usual seem to be on foot this year , for the girl be a busy up-stairs a down , so be the boy in school-room and barn , and a general air of bustle pervade the house .
There be a great hunt up of old ribbon and finery , much cutting and pasting of gold paper , and the most remarkable quantity of straw , gray cotton , flannel , and big black bead , use by Franz and Mrs. Jo .
Ned hammer at strange machine in the workshop , Demi and Tommy go about murmur to themselves a if learn something .
A fearful racket be hear in Emil 's room at interval , and peal of laughter from the nursery when Rob and Teddy be send for and hidden from sight whole hour at a time .
But the thing that puzzle Mr. Bhaer the most be what become of Rob 's big pumpkin .
It have be bear in triumph to the kitchen , where a dozen golden-tinted pie soon after appear .
It would not have take more than a quarter of the mammoth vegetable to make them , yet where be the rest ?
It disappear , and Rob never seem to care , only chuckle when it be mention , and tell his father , `` To wait and see , '' for the fun of the whole thing be to surprise Father Bhaer at the end , and not let him know a bit about what be to happen .
He obediently shut eye , ear , and mouth , and go about try not to see what be in plain sight , not to hear the tell-tale sound that fill the air , not to understand any of the perfectly transparent mystery go on all about him .
Being a German , he love these simple domestic festival , and encourage them with all his heart , for they make home so pleasant that the boy do not care to go elsewhere for fun .
When at last the day come , the boy go off for a long walk , that they might have good appetite for dinner ; a if they ever need them !
The girl remain at home to help set the table , and give last touch to various affair which fill their busy little soul with anxiety .
The school-room have be shut up since the night before , and Mr. Bhaer be forbid to enter it on pain of a beating from Teddy , who guard the door like a small dragon , though he be die to tell about it , and nothing but his father 's heroic self-denial in not listen , keep him from betray a grand secret .
`` It 's all do , and it 's perfectly splendid , '' cry Nan , come out at last with an air of triumph .
`` The you know go beautifully , and Silas know just what to do now , '' add Daisy , skip with delight at some unspeakable success .
`` I 'm blest if it ai n't the ` cut thing I ever see , them critter in particular , '' say Silas , who have be let into the secret , go off laugh like a great boy .
`` They be come ; I hear Emil roar ` Land lubber lie down below , ' so we must run and dress , '' cry Nan , and up-stairs they scamper in a great hurry .
The boy come troop home with appetite that would have make the big turkey tremble , if it have not be past all fear .
They also retire to dress ; and for half-an-hour there be a washing , brushing , and prink that would have do any tidy woman 's heart good to see .
When the bell rang , a troop of fresh-faced lad with shiny hair , clean collar , and Sunday jacket on , file into the dining-room , where Mrs. Jo , in her one black silk , with a knot of her favorite white chrysanthemum in her bosom , sit at the head of the table , `` look splendid , '' a the boy say , whenever she get herself up .
Daisy and Nan be as gay a a posy bed in their new winter dress , with bright sash and hair ribbon .
Teddy be gorgeous to behold in a crimson merino blouse , and his best button boot , which absorb and distract him as much a Mr. Toot 's wristband do on one occasion .
As Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer glance at each other down the long table , with those row of happy face on either side , they have a little thanksgiving all to themselves , and without a word , for one heart say to the other , `` Our work have prosper , let u be grateful and go on . ''
The clatter of knife and fork prevent much conversation for a few minute , and Mary Ann with an amazing pink bow in her hair `` fly round '' briskly , hand plate and ladle out gravy .
Nearly every one have contribute to the feast , so the dinner be a peculiarly interesting one to the eater of it , who beguile the pause by remark on their own production .
`` If these be not good potato I never saw any , '' observe Jack , a he receive his fourth big mealy one .
`` Some of my herb be in the stuffing of the turkey , that 's why it 's so nice , '' say Nan , take a mouthful with intense satisfaction .
`` My duck be prime any way ; Asia say she never cook such fat one , '' add Tommy .
`` Well , our carrot be beautiful , ai n't they , and our parsnip will be ever so good when we dig them , '' put in Dick , and Dolly murmur his assent from behind the bone he be pick .
`` I help make the pie with my pumpkin , '' call out Robby , with a laugh which he stop by retire into his mug .
`` I pick some of the apple that the cider be make of , '' say Demi .
`` I rake the cranberry for the sauce , '' cry Nat .
`` I get the nut , '' add Dan , and so it go on all round the table .
`` Who make up Thanksgiving ? ''
ask Rob , for be lately promote to jacket and trouser he felt a new and manly interest in the institution of his country .
`` See who can answer that question , '' and Mr. Bhaer nod to one or two of his best history boy .
`` I know , '' say Demi , `` the Pilgrims make it . ''
`` What for ? ''
ask Rob , without wait to learn who the Pilgrims be .
`` I forget , '' and Demi subside .
`` I believe it be because they be starve once , and so when they have a good harvest , they say , ` We will thank God for it , ' and they have a day and call it Thanksgiving , '' say Dan , who like the story of the brave men who suffer so nobly for their faith .
`` Good !
I do n't think you would remember any thing but natural history , '' and Mr. Bhaer tap gently on the table a applause for his pupil .
Dan look pleased ; and Mrs. Jo say to her son , `` Now do you understand about it , Robby ? ''
`` No , I do n't .
I think pil-grins be a sort of big bird that live on rock , and I saw picture of them in Demi 's book . ''
`` He mean penguin .
Oh , be n't he a little goosey ! ''
and Demi lay back in his chair and laugh aloud .
`` Do n't laugh at him , but tell him all about it if you can , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , console Rob with more cranberry sauce for the general smile that go round the table at his mistake .
`` Well , I will ; '' and , after a pause to collect his idea , Demi deliver the following sketch of the Pilgrim Fathers , which would have make even those grave gentleman smile if they could have hear it .
`` You see , Rob , some of the people in England do n't like the king , or something , so they get into ship and sail away to this country .
It be all full of Indians , and bear , and wild creature , and they live in fort , and have a dreadful time . ''
`` The bear ? ''
ask Robby , with interest .
`` No ; the Pilgrims , because the Indians trouble them .
They have n't enough to eat , and they go to church with gun , and ever so many die , and they get out of the ship on a rock , and it 's call Plymouth Rock , and Aunt Jo saw it and touch it .
The Pilgrims kill all the Indians , and get rich ; and hang the witch , and be very good ; and some of the great great-grandpas come in the ship .
One be the Mayflower ; and they make Thanksgiving , and we have it always , and I like it .
Some more turkey , please . ''
`` I think Demi will be an historian , there be such order and clearness in his account of event ; '' and Uncle Fritz 's eye laugh at Aunt Jo , a he help the descendant of the Pilgrims to his third bit of turkey .
`` I think you must eat as much a ever you could on Thanksgiving .
But Franz say you must n't even then ; '' and Stuffy look a if he have receive bad news .
`` Franz be right , so mind your knife and fork , and be moderate , or else you wo n't be able to help in the surprise by and by , '' say Mrs. Jo .
`` I 'll be careful ; but everybody do eat lot , and I like it good than be moderate , '' say Stuffy , who lean to the popular belief that Thanksgiving must be keep by come a near apoplexy a possible , and escape with merely a fit of indigestion or a headache .
`` Now , my ` pilgrim ' amuse yourselves quietly till tea-time , for you will have enough excitement this evening , '' say Mrs. Jo , a they rise from the table after a protracted sitting , finish by drink every one 's health in cider .
`` I think I will take the whole flock for a drive , it be so pleasant ; then you can rest , my dear , or you will be wear out this evening , '' add Mr. Bhaer ; and as soon a coat and hat could be put on , the great omnibus be pack full , and away they go for a long gay drive , leave Mrs. Jo to rest and finish sundry small affair in peace .
An early and light tea be follow by more brushing of hair and washing of hand ; then the flock wait impatiently for the company to come .
Only the family be expect ; for these small revel be strictly domestic , and such be the case , sorrow be not allow to sadden the present festival .
All come ; Mr. and Mrs. March , with Aunt Meg , so sweet and lovely , in spite of her black dress and the little widow 's cap that encircle her tranquil face .
Uncle Teddy and Aunt Amy , with the Princess look more fairy-like than ever , in a sky-blue gown , and a great bouquet of hot-house flower , which she divide among the boy , stick one in each button-hole , make them feel peculiarly elegant and festive .
One strange face appear , and Uncle Teddy lead the unknown gentleman up to the Bhaers , say , `` This be Mr. Hyde ; he have be inquire about Dan , and I venture to bring him to-night , that he might see how much the boy have improve . ''
The Bhaers receive him cordially , for Dan 's sake , please that the lad have be remember .
But , after a few minute ' chat , they be glad to know Mr. Hyde for his own sake , so genial , simple , and interesting be he .
It be pleasant to see the boy 's face light up when he catch sight of his friend ; pleasanter still to see Mr. Hyde 's surprise and satisfaction in Dan 's improved manner and appearance , and pleasant of all to watch the two sit talk in a corner , forget the difference of age , culture , and position , in the one subject which interested both , a man and boy compare note , and tell the story of their summer life .
`` The performance must begin soon , or the actor will go to sleep , '' say Mrs. Jo , when the first greeting be over .
So every one go into the school-room , and take seat before a curtain make of two bed-covers .
The child have already vanish ; but stifle laughter , and funny little exclamation from behind the curtain , betray their whereabouts .
The entertainment begin with a spirited exhibition of gymnastics , lead by Franz .
The six elder lad , in blue trouser and red shirt , make a fine display of muscle with dumb-bells , club , and weight , keep time to the music of the piano , play by Mrs. Jo behind the scene .
Dan be so energetic in this exercise , that there be some danger of his knock down his neighbor , like so many nine-pins , or send his bean-bags whizzing among the audience ; for he be excite by Mr. Hyde 's presence , and a burning desire to do honor to his teacher .
`` A fine , strong lad .
If I go on my trip to South America , in a year or two , I shall be tempt to ask you to lend him to me , Mr. Bhaer , '' say Mr. Hyde , whose interest in Dan be much increase by the report he have just hear of him .
`` You shall have him , and welcome , though we shall miss our young Hercules very much .
It would do him a world of good , and I be sure he would serve his friend faithfully . ''
Dan hear both question and answer , and his heart leap with joy at the thought of travel in a new country with Mr. Hyde , and swell with gratitude for the kindly commendation which reward his effort to be all these friend desire to see him .
After the gymnastics , Demi and Tommy speak the old school dialogue , `` Money make the mare go . ''
Demi do very well , but Tommy be capital a the old farmer ; for he imitate Silas in a way that convulse the audience , and cause Silas himself to laugh so hard that Asia have to slap him on the back , a they stand in the hall enjoy the fun immensely .
Then Emil , who have get his breath by this time , give them a sea-song in costume , with a great deal about `` stormy wind , '' `` lee shore , '' and a rouse chorus of `` Luff , boys , luff , '' which make the room ring ; after which Ned perform a funny Chinese dance , and hop about like a large frog in a pagoda hat .
As this be the only public exhibition ever hold at Plumfield , a few exercise in lightning-arithmetic , spelling , and reading be give .
Jack quite amaze the public by his rapid calculation on the blackboard .
Tommy win in the spelling match , and Demi read a little French fable so well that Uncle Teddy be charm .
`` Where be the other child ? ''
ask every one a the curtain fell , and none of the little one appear .
`` Oh , that be the surprise .
It 's so lovely , I pity you because you do n't know it , '' say Demi , who have go to get his mother 's kiss , and stay by her to explain the mystery when it should be reveal .
Goldilocks have be carry off by Aunt Jo , to the great amazement of her papa , who quite outdo Mr. Bhaer in act wonder , suspense , and wild impatience to know `` what be go to happen . ''
At last , after much rustling , hammering , and very audible direction from the stage manager , the curtain rise to soft music , and Bess be discover sit on a stool beside a brown paper fire-place .
A dearer little Cinderella be never see ; for the gray gown be very ragged , the tiny shoe all wear , the face so pretty under the bright hair , and the attitude so dejected , it bring tear , as well a smile , to the fond eye look at the baby actress .
She sit quite still , till a voice whisper , `` Now ! ''
then she sigh a funny little sigh , and say , `` Oh I wish I tood go to the ball ! ''
so naturally , that her father clap frantically , and her mother call out , `` Little darling ! ''
These highly improper expression of feeling cause Cinderella to forget herself , and shake her head at them , say , reprovingly , `` You must n't ` peak to me . ''
Silence instantly prevail , and three tap be hear on the wall .
Cinderella look alarmed , but before she could remember to say , `` What be dat ? ''
the back of the brown paper fire-place open like a door , and , with some difficulty , the fairy godmother get herself and her point hat through .
It be Nan , in a red cloak , a cap , and a wand , which she wave a she say decidedly , `` You shall go to the ball , my dear . ''
`` Now you must pull and show my pretty dress , '' return Cinderella , tug at her brown gown .
`` No , no ; you must say , ` How can I go in my rag ? ' ''
say the godmother in her own voice .
`` Oh yes , so I mus ' ; '' and the Princess say it , quite undisturbed by her forgetfulness .
`` I change your rag into a splendid dress , because you be good , '' say the godmother in her stage tone ; and deliberately unbutton the brown pinafore , she display a gorgeous sight .
The little Princess really be pretty enough to turn the head of any number of small prince , for her mamma have dress her like a tiny court lady , in a rosy silk train with satin under-skirt , and bit of bouquet here and there , quite lovely to behold .
The godmother put a crown , with pink and white feather droop from it , on her head , and give her a pair of silver paper slipper , which she put on , and then stand up , lift her skirt to show them to the audience , say , with pride , `` My dlass one , ai n't they pitty ? ''
She be so charmed with them , that she be with difficulty recall to her part , and make to say , `` But I have no toach , Dodmother . ''
`` Behold it ! ''
and Nan wave her wand with such a flourish , that she nearly knock off the crown of the Princess .
Then appear the grand triumph of the piece .
First , a rope be see to flap on the floor , to tighten with a twitch a Emil 's voice be hear to say , `` Heave , ahoy ! ''
and Silas 's gruff one to reply , `` Stiddy , now , stiddy ! ''
A shout of laughter follow , for four large gray rat appear , rather shaky a to their leg , and queer a to their tail , but quite fine about the head , where black bead shone in the most lifelike manner .
They draw , or be intend to appear a if they do , a magnificent coach make of half the mammoth pumpkin , mount on the wheel of Teddy 's wagon , paint yellow to match the gay carriage .
Perched on a seat in front sit a jolly little coachman in a white cotton-wool wig , cock hat , scarlet breech , and lace coat , who crack a long whip and jerk the red rein so energetically , that the gray steed rear finely .
It be Teddy , and he beam upon the company so affably that they give him a round all to himself ; and Uncle Laurie say , `` If I could find a sober a coachman a that one , I would engage him on the spot . ''
The coach stop , the godmother lift in the Princess , and she be trundle away in state , kiss her hand to the public , with her glass shoe stick up in front , and her pink train sweep the ground behind , for , elegant a the coach be , I regret to say that her Highness be rather a tight fit .
The next scene be the ball , and here Nan and Daisy appear as gay a peacock in all sort of finery .
Nan be especially good a the proud sister , and crush many imaginary lady a she sweep about the palace-hall .
The Prince , in solitary state upon a somewhat unsteady throne , sit gaze about him from under an impose crown , a he play with his sword and admire the rosette in his shoe .
When Cinderella come in he jump up , and exclaim , with more warmth than elegance , `` My gracious !
who be that ? ''
and immediately lead the lady out to dance , while the sister scowl and turn up their nose in the corner .
The stately jig execute by the little couple be very pretty , for the childish face be so earnest , the costume so gay , and the step so peculiar , that they look like the dainty quaint figure paint on a Watteau fan .
The Princess 's train be very much in her way , and the sword of Prince Rob nearly trip him up several time .
But they overcome these obstacle remarkably well , and finish the dance with much grace and spirit , consider that neither know what the other be about .
`` Drop your shoe , '' whisper Mrs. Jo 's voice a the lady be about to sit down .
`` Oh , I fordot ! ''
and , take off one of the silvery slipper , Cinderella plant it carefully in the middle of the stage , say to Rob , `` Now you must try and tatch me , '' and run away , while the Prince , pick up the shoe , obediently trot after her .
The third scene , a everybody know , be where the herald come to try on the shoe .
Teddy , still in coachman 's dress , come in blow a tin fish-horn melodiously , and the proud sister each try to put on the slipper .
Nan insist on play cut off her toe with a carving-knife , and perform that operation so well that the herald be alarm , and beg her to be `` welly keerful . ''
Cinderella then be call , and come in with the pinafore half on , slip her foot into the slipper , and announce , with satisfaction , `` I be the Pinsiss . ''
Daisy wept , and beg pardon ; but Nan , who like tragedy , improve upon the story , and fell in a fainting-fit upon the floor , where she remain comfortably enjoy the rest of the play .
It be not long , for the Prince ran in , drop upon his knee , and kiss the hand of Goldilocks with great ardor , while the herald blow a blast that nearly deafen the audience .
The curtain have no chance to fall , for the Princess run off the stage to her father , cry , `` Did n't I do well ? ''
while the Prince and herald have a fencing-match with the tin horn and wooden sword .
`` It be beautiful ! ''
say every one ; and , when the rapture have a little subsided , Nat come out with his violin in his hand .
`` Hush !
hush ! ''
cry all the child , and silence follow , for something in the boy 's bashful manner and appeal eye make every one listen kindly .
The Bhaers think he would play some of the old air he know so well , but , to their surprise , they hear a new and lovely melody , so softly , sweetly play , that they could hardly believe it could be Nat .
It be one of those song without word that touch the heart , and sing of all tender home-like hope and joy , soothe and cheer those who listen to it simple music .
Aunt Meg lean her head on Demi 's shoulder , Grandmother wipe her eye , and Mrs. Jo look up at Mr. Laurie , say , in a choky whisper , `` You compose that . ''
`` I want your boy to do you honor , and thank you in his own way , '' answer Laurie , lean down to answer her .
When Nat make his bow and be about to go , he be call back by many hand , and have to play again .
He do so with such a happy face , that it be good to see him , for he do his best , and give them the gay old tune that set the foot to dancing , and make quietude impossible .
`` Clear the floor ! ''
cried Emil ; and in a minute the chair be push back , the old people put safely in corner and the child gather on the stage .
`` Show your manner ! ''
call Emil ; and the boy prance up to the lady , old and young ; with polite invitation to `` tread the mazy , '' a dear Dick Swiveller have it .
The small lad nearly come to blow for the Princess , but she choose Dick , like a kind , little gentlewoman a she be , and let him lead her proudly to her place .
Mrs. Jo be not allow to decline ; and Aunt Amy fill Dan with unspeakable delight by refuse Franz and take him .
Of course Nan and Tommy , Nat and Daisy pair off , while Uncle Teddy go and get Asia , who be long to `` jig it , '' and felt much elate by the honor do her .
Silas and Mary Ann have a private dance in the hall ; and for half-an-hour Plumfield be at it merry .
The party wind up with a grand promenade of all the young folk , head by the pumpkin-coach with the Princess and driver inside , and the rat in a wildly frisky state .
While the child enjoy this final frolic , the elder sit in the parlor look on a they talk together of the little people with the interest of parent and friend .
`` What be you think of , all by yourself , with such a happy face , sister Jo ? ''
ask Laurie , sit down beside her on the sofa .
`` My summer 's work , Teddy , and amuse myself by imagine the future of my boy , '' she answer , smile a she make room for him .
`` They be all to be poet , painter , and statesman , famous soldier , or at least merchant prince , I suppose . ''
`` No , I be not as aspire a I once be , and I shall be satisfy if they be honest men .
But I will confess that I do expect a little glory and a career for some of them .
Demi be not a common child , and I think he will blossom into something good and great in the best sense of the word .
The others will do well , I hope , especially my last two boy , for , after hear Nat play to-night , I really think he have genius . ''
`` Too soon to say ; talent he certainly have , and there be no doubt that the boy can soon earn his bread by the work he love .
Build him up for another year or so , and then I will take him off your hand , and launch him properly . ''
`` That be such a pleasant prospect for poor Nat , who come to me six month ago so friendless and forlorn .
Dan 's future be already plain to me .
Mr. Hyde will want him soon , and I mean to give him a brave and faithful little servant .
Dan be one who can serve well if the wage be love and confidence , and he have the energy to carve out his own future in his own way .
Yes , I be very happy over our success with these boy one so weak , and one so wild ; both so much good now , and so full of promise . ''
`` What magic do you use , Jo ? ''
`` I only love them , and let them see it .
Fritz do the rest . ''
`` Dear soul !
you look a if ` only love ' have be rather hard work sometimes , '' say Laurie , stroke her thin cheek with a look of more tender admiration than he have ever give her a a girl .
`` I 'm a faded old woman , but I 'm a very happy one ; so do n't pity me , Teddy ; '' and she glance about the room with eye full of a sincere content .
`` Yes , your plan seem to work well and well every year , '' he say , with an emphatic nod of approval toward the cheery scene before him .
`` How can it fail to work well when I have so much help from you all ? ''
answered Mrs. Jo , look gratefully at her most generous patron .
`` It be the best joke of the family , this school of yours and it success .
So unlike the future we plan for you , and yet so suit to you after all .
It be a regular inspiration , Jo , '' say Laurie , dodge her thanks a usual .
`` Ah !
but you laugh at it in the beginning , and still make all manner of fun of me and my inspiration .
Did n't you predict that have girl with the boy would be a dead failure ?
Now see how well it work ; '' and she point to the happy group of lad and lassie dance , singing , and chatter together with every sign of kindly good fellowship .
`` I give in , and when my Goldilocks be old enough I 'll send her to you .
Can I say more than that ? ''
`` I shall be so proud to have your little treasure trust to me .
But really , Teddy , the effect of these girl have be excellent .
I know you will laugh at me , but I do n't mind , I 'm use to it ; so I 'll tell you that one of my favorite fancy be to look at my family a a small world , to watch the progress of my little men , and , lately , to see how well the influence of my little woman work upon them .
Daisy be the domestic element , and they all feel the charm of her quiet , womanly way .
Nan be the restless , energetic , strong-minded one ; they admire her courage , and give her a fair chance to work out her will , see that she have sympathy as well a strength , and the power to do much in their small world .
Your Bess be the lady , full of natural refinement , grace , and beauty .
She polish them unconsciously , and fill her place a any lovely woman may , use her gentle influence to lift and hold them above the coarse , rough thing of life , and keep them gentleman in the best sense of the fine old word . ''
`` It be not always the lady who do that best , Jo .
It be sometimes the strong brave woman who stir up the boy and make a man of him ; '' and Laurie bow to her with a significant laugh .
`` No ; I think the graceful woman , whom the boy you allude to marry , have do more for him than the wild Nan of his youth ; or , good still , the wise , motherly woman who watch over him , a Daisy watch over Demi , do more to make him what he be ; '' and Jo turn toward her mother , who sit a little apart with Meg , look so full of the sweet dignity and beauty of old age , that Laurie give her a glance of filial respect and love a he reply , in serious earnest , `` All three do much for him , and I can understand how well these little girl will help your lad . ''
`` Not more than the lad help them ; it be mutual , I assure you .
Nat do much for Daisy with his music ; Dan can manage Nan good than any of u ; and Demi teach your Goldilocks so easily and well that Fritz call them Roger Ascham and Lady Jane Grey .
Dear me !
if men and woman would only trust , understand , and help one another a my child do , what a capital place the world would be ! ''
and Mrs. Jo 's eye grow absent , a if she be look at a new and charm state of society in which people live a happily and innocently a her flock at Plumfield .
`` You be do your best to help on the good time , my dear .
Continue to believe in it , to work for it , and to prove it possibility by the success of her small experiment , '' say Mr. March , pause a he pass to say an encouraging word , for the good man never lose his faith in humanity , and still hop to see peace , good-will , and happiness reign upon the earth .
`` I be not so ambitious a that , father .
I only want to give these child a home in which they can be teach a few simple thing which will help to make life less hard to them when they go out to fight their battle in the world .
Honesty , courage , industry , faith in God , their fellow-creatures , and themselves ; that be all I try for . ''
`` That be every thing .
Give them these help , then let them go to work out their life a men and woman ; and whatever their success or failure be , I think they will remember and bless your effort , my good son and daughter . ''
The Professor have join them , and a Mr. March speak he give a hand to each , and leave them with a look that be a blessing .
As Jo and her husband stand together for a moment talk quietly , and feel that their summer work have be well do if father approve , Mr. Laurie slip into the hall , say a word to the child , and all of a sudden the whole flock prance into the room , join hand and dance about Father and Mother Bhaer , sing blithely , `` Summer day be over , Summer work be do ; Harvests have be gather Gayly one by one .
Now the feast be eat , Finished be the play ; But one rite remain for Our Thanksgiving-day .
`` Best of all the harvest In the dear God 's sight , Are the happy child In the home to-night ; And we come to offer Thanks where thanks be due , With grateful heart and voice , Father , mother , unto you . ''
With the last word the circle narrow till the good Professor and his wife be take prisoner by many arm , and half hide by the bouquet of laugh young face which surround them , prove that one plant have take root and blossom beautifully in all the little garden .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Little_Women.txt.out
CHAPTER ONE PLAYING PILGRIMS `` Christmas wo n't be Christmas without any present , '' grumble Jo , lie on the rug .
`` It 's so dreadful to be poor ! ''
sigh Meg , look down at her old dress .
`` I do n't think it 's fair for some girl to have plenty of pretty thing , and other girl nothing at all , '' add little Amy , with an injured sniff .
`` We 've get Father and Mother , and each other , '' say Beth contentedly from her corner .
The four young face on which the firelight shone brighten at the cheerful word , but darken again a Jo say sadly , `` We have n't get Father , and shall not have him for a long time . ''
She do n't say `` perhaps never , '' but each silently add it , think of Father far away , where the fighting be .
Nobody speak for a minute ; then Meg say in an altered tone , `` You know the reason Mother propose not have any present this Christmas be because it be go to be a hard winter for everyone ; and she think we ought not to spend money for pleasure , when our men be suffer so in the army .
We ca n't do much , but we can make our little sacrifice , and ought to do it gladly .
But I be afraid I do n't , '' and Meg shake her head , a she think regretfully of all the pretty thing she want .
`` But I do n't think the little we should spend would do any good .
We 've each get a dollar , and the army would n't be much help by our give that .
I agree not to expect anything from Mother or you , but I do want to buy Undine and Sintran for myself .
I 've want it so long , '' say Jo , who be a bookworm .
`` I plan to spend mine in new music , '' say Beth , with a little sigh , which no one heard but the hearth brush and kettle-holder .
`` I shall get a nice box of Faber 's drawing pencil ; I really need them , '' say Amy decidedly .
`` Mother do n't say anything about our money , and she wo n't wish u to give up everything .
Let 's each buy what we want , and have a little fun ; I 'm sure we work hard enough to earn it , '' cry Jo , examine the heel of her shoe in a gentlemanly manner .
`` I know I do -- teach those tiresome child nearly all day , when I 'm long to enjoy myself at home , '' begin Meg , in the complain tone again .
`` You do n't have half such a hard time a I do , '' say Jo .
`` How would you like to be shut up for hour with a nervous , fussy old lady , who keep you trot , be never satisfy , and worry you till you 're ready to fly out the window or cry ? ''
`` It 's naughty to fret , but I do think wash dish and keep thing tidy be the bad work in the world .
It make me cross , and my hand get so stiff , I ca n't practice well at all . ''
And Beth look at her rough hand with a sigh that any one could hear that time .
`` I do n't believe any of you suffer a I do , '' cry Amy , `` for you do n't have to go to school with impertinent girl , who plague you if you do n't know your lesson , and laugh at your dress , and label your father if he be n't rich , and insult you when your nose be n't nice . ''
`` If you mean libel , I 'd say so , and not talk about label , a if Papa be a pickle bottle , '' advise Jo , laugh .
`` I know what I mean , and you need n't be statirical about it .
It 's proper to use good word , and improve your vocabilary , '' return Amy , with dignity .
`` Do n't peck at one another , child .
Do n't you wish we have the money Papa lose when we be little , Jo ?
Dear me !
How happy and good we 'd be , if we have no worry ! ''
say Meg , who could remember good time .
`` You say the other day you think we be a deal happy than the King child , for they be fight and fret all the time , in spite of their money . ''
`` So I do , Beth .
Well , I think we be .
For though we do have to work , we make fun of ourselves , and be a pretty jolly set , a Jo would say . ''
`` Jo do use such slang word ! ''
observe Amy , with a reprove look at the long figure stretch on the rug .
Jo immediately sit up , put her hand in her pocket , and begin to whistle .
`` Do n't , Jo .
It 's so boyish ! ''
`` That 's why I do it . ''
`` I detest rude , unladylike girl ! ''
`` I hate affected , niminy-piminy chit ! ''
`` Birds in their little nest agree , '' sing Beth , the peacemaker , with such a funny face that both sharp voice soften to a laugh , and the `` pecking '' end for that time .
`` Really , girl , you be both to be blame , '' say Meg , begin to lecture in her elder-sisterly fashion .
`` You be old enough to leave off boyish trick , and to behave good , Josephine .
It do n't matter so much when you be a little girl , but now you be so tall , and turn up your hair , you should remember that you be a young lady . ''
`` I 'm not !
And if turn up my hair make me one , I 'll wear it in two tail till I 'm twenty , '' cry Jo , pull off her net , and shake down a chestnut mane .
`` I hate to think I 've get to grow up , and be Miss March , and wear long gown , and look as prim a a China Aster !
It 's bad enough to be a girl , anyway , when I like boy 's game and work and manner !
I ca n't get over my disappointment in not be a boy .
And it 's bad than ever now , for I 'm die to go and fight with Papa .
And I can only stay home and knit , like a poky old woman ! ''
And Jo shake the blue army sock till the needle rattle like castanets , and her ball bound across the room .
`` Poor Jo !
It 's too bad , but it ca n't be help .
So you must try to be content with make your name boyish , and play brother to u girl , '' say Beth , stroke the rough head with a hand that all the dish washing and dusting in the world could not make ungentle in it touch .
`` As for you , Amy , '' continue Meg , `` you be altogether too particular and prim .
Your air be funny now , but you 'll grow up an affected little goose , if you do n't take care .
I like your nice manner and refine way of speaking , when you do n't try to be elegant .
But your absurd word be as bad a Jo 's slang . ''
`` If Jo be a tomboy and Amy a goose , what be I , please ? ''
ask Beth , ready to share the lecture .
`` You 're a dear , and nothing else , '' answer Meg warmly , and no one contradict her , for the ` Mouse ' be the pet of the family .
As young reader like to know ` how people look ' , we will take this moment to give them a little sketch of the four sister , who sit knit away in the twilight , while the December snow fell quietly without , and the fire crackle cheerfully within .
It be a comfortable room , though the carpet be fade and the furniture very plain , for a good picture or two hung on the wall , book fill the recess , chrysanthemum and Christmas rose bloom in the window , and a pleasant atmosphere of home peace pervade it .
Margaret , the eldest of the four , be sixteen , and very pretty , be plump and fair , with large eye , plenty of soft brown hair , a sweet mouth , and white hand , of which she be rather vain .
Fifteen-year-old Jo be very tall , thin , and brown , and remind one of a colt , for she never seem to know what to do with her long limb , which be very much in her way .
She have a decided mouth , a comical nose , and sharp , gray eye , which appear to see everything , and be by turn fierce , funny , or thoughtful .
Her long , thick hair be her one beauty , but it be usually bundle into a net , to be out of her way .
Round shoulder have Jo , big hand and foot , a flyaway look to her clothes , and the uncomfortable appearance of a girl who be rapidly shoot up into a woman and do n't like it .
Elizabeth , or Beth , a everyone call her , be a rosy , smooth-haired , bright-eyed girl of thirteen , with a shy manner , a timid voice , and a peaceful expression which be seldom disturb .
Her father call her ` Little Miss Tranquility ' , and the name suit her excellently , for she seem to live in a happy world of her own , only venture out to meet the few whom she trust and love .
Amy , though the young , be a most important person , in her own opinion at least .
A regular snow maiden , with blue eye , and yellow hair curl on her shoulder , pale and slender , and always carry herself like a young lady mindful of her manner .
What the character of the four sister be we will leave to be find out .
The clock strike six and , have sweep up the hearth , Beth put a pair of slipper down to warm .
Somehow the sight of the old shoe have a good effect upon the girl , for Mother be come , and everyone brighten to welcome her .
Meg stop lecture , and light the lamp , Amy get out of the easy chair without be ask , and Jo forget how tired she be a she sit up to hold the slipper nearer to the blaze .
`` They be quite wear out .
Marmee must have a new pair . ''
`` I think I 'd get her some with my dollar , '' say Beth .
`` No , I shall ! ''
cry Amy .
`` I 'm the old , '' begin Meg , but Jo cut in with a decided , `` I 'm the man of the family now Papa be away , and I shall provide the slipper , for he tell me to take special care of Mother while he be go . ''
`` I 'll tell you what we 'll do , '' say Beth , `` let 's each get her something for Christmas , and not get anything for ourselves . ''
`` That 's like you , dear !
What will we get ? ''
exclaim Jo .
Everyone think soberly for a minute , then Meg announce , a if the idea be suggest by the sight of her own pretty hand , `` I shall give her a nice pair of glove . ''
`` Army shoe , best to be have , '' cry Jo .
`` Some handkerchief , all hem , '' say Beth .
`` I 'll get a little bottle of cologne .
She like it , and it wo n't cost much , so I 'll have some left to buy my pencil , '' add Amy .
`` How will we give the thing ? ''
ask Meg .
`` Put them on the table , and bring her in and see her open the bundle .
Do n't you remember how we use to do on our birthday ? ''
answer Jo .
`` I use to be so frightened when it be my turn to sit in the chair with the crown on , and see you all come march round to give the present , with a kiss .
I like the thing and the kiss , but it be dreadful to have you sit look at me while I open the bundle , '' say Beth , who be toast her face and the bread for tea at the same time .
`` Let Marmee think we be get thing for ourselves , and then surprise her .
We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon , Meg .
There be so much to do about the play for Christmas night , '' say Jo , march up and down , with her hand behind her back , and her nose in the air .
`` I do n't mean to act any more after this time .
I 'm get too old for such thing , '' observe Meg , who be as much a child a ever about ` dressing-up ' frolic .
`` You wo n't stop , I know , as long a you can trail round in a white gown with your hair down , and wear gold-paper jewelry .
You be the best actress we 've get , and there 'll be an end of everything if you quit the board , '' say Jo .
`` We ought to rehearse tonight .
Come here , Amy , and do the fainting scene , for you be as stiff a a poker in that . ''
`` I ca n't help it .
I never saw anyone faint , and I do n't choose to make myself all black and blue , tumble flat a you do .
If I can go down easily , I 'll drop .
If I ca n't , I shall fall into a chair and be graceful .
I do n't care if Hugo do come at me with a pistol , '' return Amy , who be not gift with dramatic power , but be choose because she be small enough to be bear out shriek by the villain of the piece .
`` Do it this way .
Clasp your hand so , and stagger across the room , cry frantically , ` Roderigo !
Save me !
Save me ! ' ''
and away go Jo , with a melodramatic scream which be truly thrill .
Amy follow , but she poke her hand out stiffly before her , and jerk herself along a if she go by machinery , and her `` Ow ! ''
be more suggestive of pin be run into her than of fear and anguish .
Jo give a despairing groan , and Meg laugh outright , while Beth let her bread burn a she watch the fun with interest .
`` It 's no use !
Do the best you can when the time come , and if the audience laugh , do n't blame me .
Come on , Meg . ''
Then thing go smoothly , for Don Pedro defy the world in a speech of two page without a single break .
Hagar , the witch , chant an awful incantation over her kettleful of simmer toad , with weird effect .
Roderigo rent his chain asunder manfully , and Hugo die in agony of remorse and arsenic , with a wild , `` Ha !
Ha ! ''
`` It 's the best we 've have yet , '' say Meg , a the dead villain sit up and rub his elbow .
`` I do n't see how you can write and act such splendid thing , Jo .
You 're a regular Shakespeare ! ''
exclaim Beth , who firmly believe that her sister be gift with wonderful genius in all thing .
`` Not quite , '' reply Jo modestly .
`` I do think The Witches Curse , an Operatic Tragedy be rather a nice thing , but I 'd like to try Macbeth , if we only have a trapdoor for Banquo .
I always want to do the kill part .
` Is that a dagger that I see before me ? ''
mutter Jo , roll her eye and clutch at the air , a she have see a famous tragedian do .
`` No , it 's the toasting fork , with Mother 's shoe on it instead of the bread .
Beth 's stage-struck ! ''
cry Meg , and the rehearsal end in a general burst of laughter .
`` Glad to find you so merry , my girl , '' say a cheery voice at the door , and actor and audience turn to welcome a tall , motherly lady with a ` can I help you ' look about her which be truly delightful .
She be not elegantly dress , but a noble-looking woman , and the girl think the gray cloak and unfashionable bonnet cover the most splendid mother in the world .
`` Well , deary , how have you get on today ?
There be so much to do , get the box ready to go tomorrow , that I do n't come home to dinner .
Has anyone call , Beth ?
How be your cold , Meg ?
Jo , you look tire to death .
Come and kiss me , baby . ''
While make these maternal inquiry Mrs. March get her wet thing off , her warm slipper on , and sit down in the easy chair , draw Amy to her lap , prepare to enjoy the happy hour of her busy day .
The girl fly about , try to make thing comfortable , each in her own way .
Meg arrange the tea table , Jo bring wood and set chair , drop , over-turning , and clatter everything she touch .
Beth trot to and fro between parlor kitchen , quiet and busy , while Amy give direction to everyone , a she sit with her hand fold .
As they gather about the table , Mrs. March say , with a particularly happy face , `` I 've get a treat for you after supper . ''
A quick , bright smile go round like a streak of sunshine .
Beth clap her hand , regardless of the biscuit she hold , and Jo toss up her napkin , cry , `` A letter !
A letter !
Three cheer for Father ! ''
`` Yes , a nice long letter .
He be well , and think he shall get through the cold season well than we fear .
He send all sort of love wish for Christmas , and an especial message to you girl , '' say Mrs. March , pat her pocket a if she have get a treasure there .
`` Hurry and get do !
Do n't stop to quirk your little finger and simper over your plate , Amy , '' cry Jo , choke on her tea and drop her bread , butter side down , on the carpet in her haste to get at the treat .
Beth eat no more , but creep away to sit in her shadowy corner and brood over the delight to come , till the others be ready .
`` I think it be so splendid in Father to go as chaplain when he be too old to be draft , and not strong enough for a soldier , '' say Meg warmly .
`` Do n't I wish I could go a a drummer , a vivan -- what 's it name ?
Or a nurse , so I could be near him and help him , '' exclaim Jo , with a groan .
`` It must be very disagreeable to sleep in a tent , and eat all sort of bad-tasting thing , and drink out of a tin mug , '' sigh Amy .
`` When will he come home , Marmee ? ''
ask Beth , with a little quiver in her voice .
`` Not for many month , dear , unless he be sick .
He will stay and do his work faithfully as long a he can , and we wo n't ask for him back a minute sooner than he can be spar .
Now come and hear the letter . ''
They all draw to the fire , Mother in the big chair with Beth at her foot , Meg and Amy perch on either arm of the chair , and Jo lean on the back , where no one would see any sign of emotion if the letter should happen to be touch .
Very few letter be write in those hard time that be not touch , especially those which father send home .
In this one little be say of the hardship endure , the danger face , or the homesickness conquer .
It be a cheerful , hopeful letter , full of lively description of camp life , march , and military news , and only at the end do the writer 's heart over-flow with fatherly love and longing for the little girl at home .
`` Give them all of my dear love and a kiss .
Tell them I think of them by day , pray for them by night , and find my best comfort in their affection at all time .
A year seem very long to wait before I see them , but remind them that while we wait we may all work , so that these hard day need not be waste .
I know they will remember all I say to them , that they will be love child to you , will do their duty faithfully , fight their bosom enemy bravely , and conquer themselves so beautifully that when I come back to them I may be fond and prouder than ever of my little woman . ''
Everybody sniff when they come to that part .
Jo be n't ashamed of the great tear that drop off the end of her nose , and Amy never mind the rumpling of her curl a she hide her face on her mother 's shoulder and sob out , `` I be a selfish girl !
But I 'll truly try to be well , so he may n't be disappoint in me by-and-by . ''
`` We all will , '' cry Meg .
`` I think too much of my look and hate to work , but wo n't any more , if I can help it . ''
`` I 'll try and be what he love to call me , ' a little woman ' and not be rough and wild , but do my duty here instead of want to be somewhere else , '' say Jo , think that keep her temper at home be a much hard task than face a rebel or two down South .
Beth say nothing , but wipe away her tear with the blue army sock and begin to knit with all her might , lose no time in do the duty that lay near her , while she resolve in her quiet little soul to be all that Father hop to find her when the year bring round the happy come home .
Mrs. March break the silence that follow Jo 's word , by say in her cheery voice , `` Do you remember how you use to play Pilgrims Progress when you be little thing ?
Nothing delight you more than to have me tie my piece bag on your back for burden , give you hat and stick and roll of paper , and let you travel through the house from the cellar , which be the City of Destruction , up , up , to the housetop , where you have all the lovely thing you could collect to make a Celestial City . ''
`` What fun it be , especially go by the lion , fight Apollyon , and pass through the valley where the hob-goblins be , '' say Jo .
`` I like the place where the bundle fell off and tumble downstairs , '' say Meg .
`` I do n't remember much about it , except that I be afraid of the cellar and the dark entry , and always like the cake and milk we have up at the top .
If I be n't too old for such thing , I 'd rather like to play it over again , '' say Amy , who begin to talk of renounce childish thing at the mature age of twelve .
`` We never be too old for this , my dear , because it be a play we be play all the time in one way or another .
Our burden be here , our road be before u , and the longing for goodness and happiness be the guide that lead u through many trouble and mistake to the peace which be a true Celestial City .
Now , my little pilgrim , suppose you begin again , not in play , but in earnest , and see how far on you can get before Father come home . ''
`` Really , Mother ?
Where be our bundle ? ''
ask Amy , who be a very literal young lady .
`` Each of you tell what your burden be just now , except Beth .
I rather think she have n't get any , '' say her mother .
`` Yes , I have .
Mine be dish and duster , and envy girl with nice piano , and be afraid of people . ''
Beth 's bundle be such a funny one that everybody want to laugh , but nobody do , for it would have hurt her feeling very much .
`` Let u do it , '' say Meg thoughtfully .
`` It be only another name for try to be good , and the story may help u , for though we do want to be good , it 's hard work and we forget , and do n't do our best . ''
`` We be in the Slough of Despond tonight , and Mother come and pull u out a Help do in the book .
We ought to have our roll of direction , like Christian .
What shall we do about that ? ''
ask Jo , delight with the fancy which lend a little romance to the very dull task of do her duty .
`` Look under your pillow Christmas morning , and you will find your guidebook , '' reply Mrs. March .
They talk over the new plan while old Hannah clear the table , then out come the four little work basket , and the needle fly a the girl make sheet for Aunt March .
It be uninteresting sewing , but tonight no one grumble .
They adopt Jo 's plan of divide the long seam into four part , and call the quarter Europe , Asia , Africa , and America , and in that way get on capitally , especially when they talk about the different country a they stitch their way through them .
At nine they stop work , and sang , a usual , before they go to bed .
No one but Beth could get much music out of the old piano , but she have a way of softly touch the yellow key and make a pleasant accompaniment to the simple song they sing .
Meg have a voice like a flute , and she and her mother lead the little choir .
Amy chirp like a cricket , and Jo wander through the air at her own sweet will , always come out at the wrong place with a croak or a quaver that spoil the most pensive tune .
They have always do this from the time they could lisp ... Crinkle , crinkle , ` ittle ` tar , and it have become a household custom , for the mother be a born singer .
The first sound in the morning be her voice a she go about the house sing like a lark , and the last sound at night be the same cheery sound , for the girl never grow too old for that familiar lullaby .
CHAPTER TWO A MERRY CHRISTMAS Jo be the first to wake in the gray dawn of Christmas morning .
No stocking hung at the fireplace , and for a moment she felt as much disappoint a she do long ago , when her little sock fell down because it be cram so full of goody .
Then she remember her mother 's promise and , slip her hand under her pillow , draw out a little crimson-covered book .
She know it very well , for it be that beautiful old story of the best life ever live , and Jo felt that it be a true guidebook for any pilgrim go on a long journey .
She wake Meg with a `` Merry Christmas , '' and bid her see what be under her pillow .
A green-covered book appear , with the same picture inside , and a few word write by their mother , which make their one present very precious in their eye .
Presently Beth and Amy wake to rummage and find their little book also , one dove-colored , the other blue , and all sit look at and talk about them , while the east grow rosy with the come day .
In spite of her small vanity , Margaret have a sweet and pious nature , which unconsciously influence her sister , especially Jo , who love her very tenderly , and obey her because her advice be so gently give .
`` Girls , '' say Meg seriously , look from the tumbled head beside her to the two little night-capped one in the room beyond , `` Mother want u to read and love and mind these book , and we must begin at once .
We use to be faithful about it , but since Father go away and all this war trouble unsettle u , we have neglect many thing .
You can do a you please , but I shall keep my book on the table here and read a little every morning as soon a I wake , for I know it will do me good and help me through the day . ''
Then she open her new book and begin to read .
Jo put her arm round her and , lean cheek to cheek , read also , with the quiet expression so seldom see on her restless face .
`` How good Meg be !
Come , Amy , let 's do a they do .
I 'll help you with the hard word , and they 'll explain thing if we do n't understand , '' whisper Beth , very much impress by the pretty book and her sister ' example .
`` I 'm glad mine be blue , '' say Amy .
and then the room be very still while the page be softly turn , and the winter sunshine crept in to touch the bright head and serious face with a Christmas greeting .
`` Where be Mother ? ''
ask Meg , a she and Jo run down to thank her for their gift , half an hour later .
`` Goodness only know .
Some poor creeter come a-beggin ' , and your ma go straight off to see what be need .
There never be such a woman for givin ' away vittles and drink , clothes and firin ' , '' reply Hannah , who have live with the family since Meg be bear , and be consider by them all more a a friend than a servant .
`` She will be back soon , I think , so fry your cake , and have everything ready , '' say Meg , look over the present which be collect in a basket and keep under the sofa , ready to be produce at the proper time .
`` Why , where be Amy 's bottle of cologne ? ''
she add , a the little flask do not appear .
`` She take it out a minute ago , and go off with it to put a ribbon on it , or some such notion , '' reply Jo , dance about the room to take the first stiffness off the new army slipper .
`` How nice my handkerchiefs look , do n't they ?
Hannah wash and iron them for me , and I mark them all myself , '' say Beth , look proudly at the somewhat uneven letter which have cost her such labor .
`` Bless the child !
She 's go and put ` Mother ' on them instead of 'M .
March ' .
How funny ! ''
cry Jo , take one up .
`` Is n't that right ?
I think it be well to do it so , because Meg 's initial be M.M . , and I do n't want anyone to use these but Marmee , '' say Beth , look trouble .
`` It 's all right , dear , and a very pretty idea , quite sensible too , for no one can ever mistake now .
It will please her very much , I know , '' say Meg , with a frown for Jo and a smile for Beth .
`` There 's Mother .
Hide the basket , quick ! ''
cry Jo , a a door slam and step sound in the hall .
Amy come in hastily , and look rather abash when she saw her sister all wait for her .
`` Where have you be , and what be you hide behind you ? ''
ask Meg , surprise to see , by her hood and cloak , that lazy Amy have be out so early .
`` Do n't laugh at me , Jo !
I do n't mean anyone should know till the time come .
I only mean to change the little bottle for a big one , and I give all my money to get it , and I 'm truly try not to be selfish any more . ''
As she speak , Amy show the handsome flask which replace the cheap one , and look so earnest and humble in her little effort to forget herself that Meg hug her on the spot , and Jo pronounce her ' a trump ' , while Beth run to the window , and pick her finest rise to ornament the stately bottle .
`` You see I felt ashamed of my present , after read and talk about be good this morning , so I run round the corner and change it the minute I be up , and I 'm so glad , for mine be the handsomest now . ''
Another bang of the street door send the basket under the sofa , and the girl to the table , eager for breakfast .
`` Merry Christmas , Marmee !
Many of them !
Thank you for our book .
We read some , and mean to every day , '' they all cry in chorus .
`` Merry Christmas , little daughter !
I 'm glad you begin at once , and hope you will keep on .
But I want to say one word before we sit down .
Not far away from here lie a poor woman with a little newborn baby .
Six child be huddle into one bed to keep from freezing , for they have no fire .
There be nothing to eat over there , and the old boy come to tell me they be suffer hunger and cold .
My girl , will you give them your breakfast a a Christmas present ? ''
They be all unusually hungry , have wait nearly an hour , and for a minute no one spoke , only a minute , for Jo exclaim impetuously , `` I 'm so glad you come before we begin ! ''
`` May I go and help carry the thing to the poor little child ? ''
ask Beth eagerly .
`` I shall take the cream and the muffings , '' add Amy , heroically give up the article she most liked .
Meg be already cover the buckwheat , and pile the bread into one big plate .
`` I think you 'd do it , '' say Mrs. March , smile a if satisfied .
`` You shall all go and help me , and when we come back we will have bread and milk for breakfast , and make it up at dinnertime . ''
They be soon ready , and the procession set out .
Fortunately it be early , and they go through back street , so few people saw them , and no one laugh at the queer party .
A poor , bare , miserable room it be , with broken window , no fire , rag bedclothes , a sick mother , wail baby , and a group of pale , hungry child cuddle under one old quilt , try to keep warm .
How the big eye star and the blue lip smile a the girl go in .
`` Ach , mein Gott !
It be good angel come to u ! ''
say the poor woman , cry for joy .
`` Funny angel in hood and mitten , '' say Jo , and set them to laugh .
In a few minute it really do seem a if kind spirit have be at work there .
Hannah , who have carry wood , make a fire , and stop up the broken pane with old hat and her own cloak .
Mrs. March give the mother tea and gruel , and comfort her with promise of help , while she dress the little baby as tenderly a if it have be her own .
The girl meantime spread the table , set the child round the fire , and feed them like so many hungry bird , laugh , talk , and try to understand the funny broken English .
`` Das ist gut ! ''
`` Die Engel-kinder ! ''
cry the poor thing a they eat and warm their purple hand at the comfortable blaze .
The girl have never be call angel child before , and think it very agreeable , especially Jo , who have be consider a ` Sancho ' ever since she be bear .
That be a very happy breakfast , though they do n't get any of it .
And when they go away , leave comfort behind , I think there be not in all the city four merry people than the hungry little girl who give away their breakfast and content themselves with bread and milk on Christmas morning .
`` That 's love our neighbor well than ourselves , and I like it , '' say Meg , a they set out their present while their mother be upstairs collecting clothes for the poor Hummels .
Not a very splendid show , but there be a great deal of love do up in the few little bundle , and the tall vase of red rose , white chrysanthemum , and trail vine , which stand in the middle , give quite an elegant air to the table .
`` She 's come !
Strike up , Beth !
Open the door , Amy !
Three cheer for Marmee ! ''
cry Jo , prance about while Meg go to conduct Mother to the seat of honor .
Beth play her gay march , Amy throw open the door , and Meg enact escort with great dignity .
Mrs. March be both surprised and touch , and smile with her eye full a she examine her present and read the little note which accompany them .
The slipper go on at once , a new handkerchief be slip into her pocket , well scent with Amy 's cologne , the rise be fasten in her bosom , and the nice glove be pronounce a perfect fit .
There be a good deal of laugh and kiss and explain , in the simple , love fashion which make these home festival so pleasant at the time , so sweet to remember long afterward , and then all fell to work .
The morning charity and ceremony take so much time that the rest of the day be devote to preparation for the evening festivity .
Being still too young to go often to the theater , and not rich enough to afford any great outlay for private performance , the girl put their wit to work , and necessity be the mother of invention , make whatever they need .
Very clever be some of their production , pasteboard guitar , antique lamp make of old-fashioned butter boat cover with silver paper , gorgeous robe of old cotton , glitter with tin spangle from a pickle factory , and armor cover with the same useful diamond shape bit leave in sheet when the lid of preserve pot be cut out .
The big chamber be the scene of many innocent revel .
No gentleman be admit , so Jo play male part to her heart 's content and take immense satisfaction in a pair of russet leather boot give her by a friend , who know a lady who know an actor .
These boot , an old foil , and a slashed doublet once use by an artist for some picture , be Jo 's chief treasure and appear on all occasion .
The smallness of the company make it necessary for the two principal actor to take several part apiece , and they certainly deserve some credit for the hard work they do in learning three or four different part , whisk in and out of various costume , and manage the stage besides .
It be excellent drill for their memory , a harmless amusement , and employ many hour which otherwise would have be idle , lonely , or spend in less profitable society .
On Christmas night , a dozen girl pile onto the bed which be the dress circle , and sit before the blue and yellow chintz curtain in a most flattering state of expectancy .
There be a good deal of rustle and whisper behind the curtain , a trifle of lamp smoke , and an occasional giggle from Amy , who be apt to get hysterical in the excitement of the moment .
Presently a bell sound , the curtain fly apart , and the operatic tragedy begin .
`` A gloomy wood , '' accord to the one playbill , be represent by a few shrub in pot , green baize on the floor , and a cave in the distance .
This cave be make with a clothes horse for a roof , bureau for wall , and in it be a small furnace in full blast , with a black pot on it and an old witch bending over it .
The stage be dark and the glow of the furnace have a fine effect , especially a real steam issue from the kettle when the witch take off the cover .
A moment be allow for the first thrill to subside , then Hugo , the villain , stalk in with a clanking sword at his side , a slouching hat , black beard , mysterious cloak , and the boot .
After pace to and fro in much agitation , he strike his forehead , and burst out in a wild strain , singing of his hatred for Roderigo , his love for Zara , and his please resolution to kill the one and win the other .
The gruff tone of Hugo 's voice , with an occasional shout when his feeling overcome him , be very impressive , and the audience applaud the moment he pause for breath .
Bowing with the air of one accustom to public praise , he steal to the cavern and order Hagar to come forth with a commanding , `` What ho , minion !
I need thee ! ''
Out come Meg , with gray horsehair hang about her face , a red and black robe , a staff , and cabalistic sign upon her cloak .
Hugo demand a potion to make Zara adore him , and one to destroy Roderigo .
Hagar , in a fine dramatic melody , promise both , and proceed to call up the spirit who would bring the love philter .
Hither , hither , from thy home , Airy sprite , I bid thee come !
Born of rose , feed on dew , Charms and potion canst thou brew ?
Bring me here , with elfin speed , The fragrant philter which I need .
Make it sweet and swift and strong , Spirit , answer now my song !
A soft strain of music sound , and then at the back of the cave appear a little figure in cloudy white , with glittering wing , golden hair , and a garland of rose on it head .
Waving a wand , it sing ... Hither I come , From my airy home , Afar in the silver moon .
Take the magic spell , And use it well , Or it power will vanish soon !
And drop a small , gilded bottle at the witch 's foot , the spirit vanish .
Another chant from Hagar produce another apparition , not a lovely one , for with a bang an ugly black imp appear and , have croak a reply , toss a dark bottle at Hugo and disappear with a mocking laugh .
Having warble his thanks and put the potion in his boot , Hugo depart , and Hagar inform the audience that a he have kill a few of her friend in time past , she have curse him , and intend to thwart his plan , and be revenge on him .
Then the curtain fell , and the audience repose and ate candy while discuss the merit of the play .
A good deal of hammer go on before the curtain rise again , but when it become evident what a masterpiece of stage carpentery have be get up , no one murmur at the delay .
It be truly superb .
A tower rise to the ceiling , halfway up appear a window with a lamp burning in it , and behind the white curtain appear Zara in a lovely blue and silver dress , wait for Roderigo .
He come in gorgeous array , with plumed cap , red cloak , chestnut lovelocks , a guitar , and the boot , of course .
Kneeling at the foot of the tower , he sing a serenade in melt tone .
Zara reply and , after a musical dialogue , consent to fly .
Then come the grand effect of the play .
Roderigo produce a rope ladder , with five step to it , throw up one end , and invite Zara to descend .
Timidly she creep from her lattice , put her hand on Roderigo 's shoulder , and be about to leap gracefully down when `` Alas !
Alas for Zara ! ''
she forget her train .
It catch in the window , the tower totter , lean forward , fell with a crash , and bury the unhappy lover in the ruin .
A universal shriek arise a the russet boot wave wildly from the wreck and a golden head emerge , exclaim , `` I tell you so !
I tell you so ! ''
With wonderful presence of mind , Don Pedro , the cruel sire , rush in , drag out his daughter , with a hasty aside ... `` Do n't laugh !
Act a if it be all right ! ''
and , order Roderigo up , banish him from the kingdom with wrath and scorn .
Though decidedly shake by the fall from the tower upon him , Roderigo defy the old gentleman and refuse to stir .
This dauntless example fire Zara .
She also defy her sire , and he order them both to the deep dungeon of the castle .
A stout little retainer come in with chain and lead them away , look very much frighten and evidently forget the speech he ought to have make .
Act third be the castle hall , and here Hagar appear , have come to free the lover and finish Hugo .
She hear him come and hide , see him put the potion into two cup of wine and bid the timid little servant , `` Bear them to the captive in their cell , and tell them I shall come anon . ''
The servant take Hugo aside to tell him something , and Hagar change the cup for two others which be harmless .
Ferdinando , the ` minion ' , carry them away , and Hagar put back the cup which hold the poison meant for Roderigo .
Hugo , get thirsty after a long warble , drink it , lose his wit , and after a good deal of clutch and stamping , fall flat and dy , while Hagar inform him what she have do in a song of exquisite power and melody .
This be a truly thrilling scene , though some person might have think that the sudden tumble down of a quantity of long red hair rather mar the effect of the villain 's death .
He be call before the curtain , and with great propriety appear , lead Hagar , whose singing be consider more wonderful than all the rest of the performance put together .
Act fourth display the despair Roderigo on the point of stab himself because he have be tell that Zara have desert him .
Just a the dagger be at his heart , a lovely song be sing under his window , inform him that Zara be true but in danger , and he can save her if he will .
A key be throw in , which unlock the door , and in a spasm of rapture he tear off his chain and rush away to find and rescue his lady love .
Act fifth open with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro .
He wish her to go into a convent , but she wo n't hear of it , and after a touching appeal , be about to faint when Roderigo dash in and demand her hand .
Don Pedro refuse , because he be not rich .
They shout and gesticulate tremendously but can not agree , and Rodrigo be about to bear away the exhausted Zara , when the timid servant enters with a letter and a bag from Hagar , who have mysteriously disappear .
The latter inform the party that she bequeath untold wealth to the young pair and an awful doom to Don Pedro , if he do n't make them happy .
The bag be open , and several quart of tin money shower down upon the stage till it be quite glorify with the glitter .
This entirely soften the stern sire .
He consent without a murmur , all join in a joyful chorus , and the curtain fall upon the lover kneel to receive Don Pedro 's blessing in attitude of the most romantic grace .
Tumultuous applause follow but receive an unexpected check , for the cot bed , on which the dress circle be build , suddenly shut up and extinguish the enthusiastic audience .
Roderigo and Don Pedro fly to the rescue , and all be take out unhurt , though many be speechless with laughter .
The excitement have hardly subside when Hannah appear , with `` Mrs. March 's compliment , and would the lady walk down to supper . ''
This be a surprise even to the actor , and when they saw the table , they look at one another in rapturous amazement .
It be like Marmee to get up a little treat for them , but anything so fine a this be unheard of since the departed day of plenty .
There be ice cream , actually two dish of it , pink and white , and cake and fruit and distract French bonbon and , in the middle of the table , four great bouquet of hot house flower .
It quite take their breath away , and they star first at the table and then at their mother , who look a if she enjoy it immensely .
`` Is it fairies ? ''
ask Amy .
`` Santa Claus , '' say Beth .
`` Mother do it . ''
And Meg smile her sweet , in spite of her gray beard and white eyebrow .
`` Aunt March have a good fit and send the supper , '' cry Jo , with a sudden inspiration .
`` All wrong .
Old Mr. Laurence send it , '' reply Mrs. March .
`` The Laurence boy 's grandfather !
What in the world put such a thing into his head ?
We do n't know him ! ''
exclaim Meg .
`` Hannah tell one of his servant about your breakfast party .
He be an odd old gentleman , but that please him .
He know my father year ago , and he send me a polite note this afternoon , say he hop I would allow him to express his friendly feeling toward my child by send them a few trifle in honor of the day .
I could not refuse , and so you have a little feast at night to make up for the bread-and-milk breakfast . ''
`` That boy put it into his head , I know he do !
He 's a capital fellow , and I wish we could get acquaint .
He look a if he 'd like to know u but he 's bashful , and Meg be so prim she wo n't let me speak to him when we pass , '' say Jo , a the plate go round , and the ice begin to melt out of sight , with oh and ahs of satisfaction .
`` You mean the people who live in the big house next door , do n't you ? ''
ask one of the girl .
`` My mother know old Mr. Laurence , but say he 's very proud and do n't like to mix with his neighbor .
He keep his grandson shut up , when he be n't rid or walk with his tutor , and make him study very hard .
We invite him to our party , but he do n't come .
Mother say he 's very nice , though he never speak to u girl . ''
`` Our cat run away once , and he bring her back , and we talk over the fence , and be get on capitally , all about cricket , and so on , when he saw Meg come , and walk off .
I mean to know him some day , for he need fun , I 'm sure he do , '' say Jo decidedly .
`` I like his manner , and he look like a little gentleman , so I 've no objection to your know him , if a proper opportunity come .
He bring the flower himself , and I should have ask him in , if I have be sure what be go on upstairs .
He look so wistful a he go away , hear the frolic and evidently have none of his own . ''
`` It 's a mercy you do n't , Mother ! ''
laugh Jo , look at her boot .
`` But we 'll have another play sometime that he can see .
Perhaps he 'll help act .
Would n't that be jolly ? ''
`` I never have such a fine bouquet before !
How pretty it be ! ''
And Meg examine her flower with great interest .
`` They be lovely .
But Beth 's rose be sweet to me , '' say Mrs. March , smell the half-dead posy in her belt .
Beth nestle up to her , and whisper softly , `` I wish I could send my bunch to Father .
I 'm afraid he be n't have such a merry Christmas a we be . ''
CHAPTER THREE THE LAURENCE BOY `` Jo !
Jo !
Where be you ? ''
cry Meg at the foot of the garret stair .
`` Here ! ''
answer a husky voice from above , and , run up , Meg find her sister eating apple and cry over the Heir of Redclyffe , wrap up in a comforter on an old three-legged sofa by the sunny window .
This be Jo 's favorite refuge , and here she love to retire with half a dozen russet and a nice book , to enjoy the quiet and the society of a pet rat who live near by and do n't mind her a particle .
As Meg appear , Scrabble whisk into his hole .
Jo shake the tear off her cheek and wait to hear the news .
`` Such fun !
Only see !
A regular note of invitation from Mrs. Gardiner for tomorrow night ! ''
cry Meg , wave the precious paper and then proceed to read it with girlish delight . ''
` Mrs. Gardiner would be happy to see Miss March and Miss Josephine at a little dance on New Year 's Eve . '
Marmee be willing we should go , now what shall we wear ? ''
`` What 's the use of ask that , when you know we shall wear our poplin , because we have n't get anything else ? ''
answer Jo with her mouth full .
`` If I only have a silk ! ''
sigh Meg .
`` Mother say I may when I 'm eighteen perhaps , but two year be an everlasting time to wait . ''
`` I 'm sure our pop look like silk , and they be nice enough for u .
Yours be as good a new , but I forget the burn and the tear in mine .
Whatever shall I do ?
The burn show badly , and I ca n't take any out . ''
`` You must sit still all you can and keep your back out of sight .
The front be all right .
I shall have a new ribbon for my hair , and Marmee will lend me her little pearl pin , and my new slipper be lovely , and my glove will do , though they be n't as nice a I 'd like . ''
`` Mine be spoil with lemonade , and I ca n't get any new one , so I shall have to go without , '' say Jo , who never trouble herself much about dress .
`` You must have glove , or I wo n't go , '' cry Meg decidedly .
`` Gloves be more important than anything else .
You ca n't dance without them , and if you do n't I should be so mortified . ''
`` Then I 'll stay still .
I do n't care much for company dancing .
It 's no fun to go sailing round .
I like to fly about and cut caper . ''
`` You ca n't ask Mother for new one , they be so expensive , and you be so careless .
She say when you spoil the others that she should n't get you any more this winter .
Ca n't you make them do ? ''
`` I can hold them crumple up in my hand , so no one will know how stained they be .
That 's all I can do .
No !
I 'll tell you how we can manage , each wear one good one and carry a bad one .
Do n't you see ? ''
`` Your hand be big than mine , and you will stretch my glove dreadfully , '' begin Meg , whose glove be a tender point with her .
`` Then I 'll go without .
I do n't care what people say ! ''
cry Jo , take up her book .
`` You may have it , you may !
Only do n't stain it , and do behave nicely .
Do n't put your hand behind you , or stare , or say ` Christopher Columbus ! '
will you ? ''
`` Do n't worry about me .
I 'll be as prim a I can and not get into any scrape , if I can help it .
Now go and answer your note , and let me finish this splendid story . ''
So Meg go away to ` accept with thanks ' , look over her dress , and sing blithely a she do up her one real lace frill , while Jo finish her story , her four apple , and have a game of romp with Scrabble .
On New Year 's Eve the parlor be desert , for the two young girl play dress maid and the two elder be absorb in the all-important business of ` get ready for the party ' .
Simple a the toilet be , there be a great deal of run up and down , laugh and talk , and at one time a strong smell of burn hair pervade the house .
Meg want a few curl about her face , and Jo undertook to pinch the papered lock with a pair of hot tongs .
`` Ought they to smoke like that ? ''
ask Beth from her perch on the bed .
`` It 's the dampness drying , '' reply Jo .
`` What a queer smell !
It 's like burn feather , '' observe Amy , smooth her own pretty curl with a superior air .
`` There , now I 'll take off the paper and you 'll see a cloud of little ringlet , '' say Jo , put down the tongs .
She do take off the paper , but no cloud of ringlet appear , for the hair come with the paper , and the horrify hairdresser lay a row of little scorched bundle on the bureau before her victim .
`` Oh , oh , oh !
What have you do ?
I 'm spoiled !
I ca n't go !
My hair , oh , my hair ! ''
wail Meg , look with despair at the uneven frizzle on her forehead .
`` Just my luck !
You should n't have ask me to do it .
I always spoil everything .
I 'm so sorry , but the tongs be too hot , and so I 've make a mess , '' groan poor Jo , regard the little black pancake with tear of regret .
`` It be n't spoil .
Just frizzle it , and tie your ribbon so the end come on your forehead a bit , and it will look like the last fashion .
I 've see many girl do it so , '' say Amy consolingly .
`` Serves me right for try to be fine .
I wish I 'd let my hair alone , '' cry Meg petulantly .
`` So do I , it be so smooth and pretty .
But it will soon grow out again , '' say Beth , come to kiss and comfort the shorn sheep .
After various less mishap , Meg be finish at last , and by the united exertion of the entire family Jo 's hair be get up and her dress on .
They look very well in their simple suit , Meg 's in silvery drab , with a blue velvet snood , lace frill , and the pearl pin .
Jo in maroon , with a stiff , gentlemanly linen collar , and a white chrysanthemum or two for her only ornament .
Each put on one nice light glove , and carry one soil one , and all pronounce the effect `` quite easy and fine '' .
Meg 's high-heeled slipper be very tight and hurt her , though she would not own it , and Jo 's nineteen hairpin all seem stuck straight into her head , which be not exactly comfortable , but , dear me , let u be elegant or die .
`` Have a good time , deary ! ''
say Mrs. March , a the sister go daintily down the walk .
`` Do n't eat much supper , and come away at eleven when I send Hannah for you . ''
As the gate clash behind them , a voice cry from a window ... `` Girls , girl !
Have you you both get nice pocket handkerchief ? ''
`` Yes , yes , spandy nice , and Meg have cologne on hers , '' cry Jo , add with a laugh a they go on , `` I do believe Marmee would ask that if we be all run away from an earthquake . ''
`` It be one of her aristocratic taste , and quite proper , for a real lady be always know by neat boot , glove , and handkerchief , '' reply Meg , who have a good many little ` aristocratic taste ' of her own .
`` Now do n't forget to keep the bad breadth out of sight , Jo .
Is my sash right ?
And do my hair look very bad ? ''
say Meg , a she turn from the glass in Mrs. Gardiner 's dressing room after a prolonged prink .
`` I know I shall forget .
If you see me do anything wrong , just remind me by a wink , will you ? ''
return Jo , give her collar a twitch and her head a hasty brush .
`` No , winking be n't ladylike .
I 'll lift my eyebrow if any thing be wrong , and nod if you be all right .
Now hold your shoulder straight , and take short step , and do n't shake hand if you be introduce to anyone .
It be n't the thing . ''
`` How do you learn all the proper way ?
I never can .
Is n't that music gay ? ''
Down they go , feel a trifle timid , for they seldom go to party , and informal a this little gathering be , it be an event to them .
Mrs. Gardiner , a stately old lady , greet them kindly and hand them over to the eldest of her six daughter .
Meg know Sallie and be at her ease very soon , but Jo , who do n't care much for girl or girlish gossip , stand about , with her back carefully against the wall , and felt as much out of place a a colt in a flower garden .
Half a dozen jovial lad be talk about skate in another part of the room , and she long to go and join them , for skate be one of the joy of her life .
She telegraph her wish to Meg , but the eyebrow go up so alarmingly that she dare not stir .
No one come to talk to her , and one by one the group dwindle away till she be leave alone .
She could not roam about and amuse herself , for the burn breadth would show , so she star at people rather forlornly till the dancing begin .
Meg be ask at once , and the tight slipper trip about so briskly that none would have guess the pain their wearer suffer smilingly .
Jo saw a big red head youth approach her corner , and fear he mean to engage her , she slip into a curtained recess , intend to peep and enjoy herself in peace .
Unfortunately , another bashful person have choose the same refuge , for , a the curtain fell behind her , she find herself face to face with the ` Laurence boy ' .
`` Dear me , I do n't know anyone be here ! ''
stammer Jo , prepare to back out as speedily a she have bounce in .
But the boy laugh and say pleasantly , though he look a little startled , `` Do n't mind me , stay if you like . ''
`` Sha n't I disturb you ? ''
`` Not a bit .
I only come here because I do n't know many people and felt rather strange at first , you know . ''
`` So do I . Do n't go away , please , unless you 'd rather . ''
The boy sit down again and look at his pump , till Jo say , try to be polite and easy , `` I think I 've have the pleasure of see you before .
You live near u , do n't you ? ''
`` Next door . ''
And he look up and laugh outright , for Jo 's prim manner be rather funny when he remember how they have chat about cricket when he bring the cat home .
That put Jo at her ease and she laugh too , a she say , in her hearty way , `` We do have such a good time over your nice Christmas present . ''
`` Grandpa send it . ''
`` But you put it into his head , do n't you , now ? ''
`` How be your cat , Miss March ? ''
ask the boy , try to look sober while his black eye shone with fun .
`` Nicely , thank you , Mr. Laurence .
But I be not Miss March , I 'm only Jo , '' return the young lady .
`` I 'm not Mr. Laurence , I 'm only Laurie . ''
`` Laurie Laurence , what an odd name . ''
`` My first name be Theodore , but I do n't like it , for the fellow call me Dora , so I make them say Laurie instead . ''
`` I hate my name , too , so sentimental !
I wish every one would say Jo instead of Josephine .
How do you make the boy stop call you Dora ? ''
`` I thrash 'em . ''
`` I ca n't thrash Aunt March , so I suppose I shall have to bear it . ''
And Jo resign herself with a sigh .
`` Do n't you like to dance , Miss Jo ? ''
ask Laurie , look a if he think the name suit her .
`` I like it well enough if there be plenty of room , and everyone be lively .
In a place like this I 'm sure to upset something , tread on people 's toe , or do something dreadful , so I keep out of mischief and let Meg sail about .
Do n't you dance ? ''
`` Sometimes .
You see I 've be abroad a good many year , and have n't be into company enough yet to know how you do thing here . ''
`` Abroad ! ''
cry Jo .
`` Oh , tell me about it !
I love dearly to hear people describe their travel . ''
Laurie do n't seem to know where to begin , but Jo 's eager question soon set him go , and he tell her how he have be at school in Vevay , where the boy never wear hat and have a fleet of boat on the lake , and for holiday fun go on walk trip about Switzerland with their teacher .
`` Do n't I wish I 'd be there ! ''
cry Jo .
`` Did you go to Paris ? ''
`` We spend last winter there . ''
`` Can you talk French ? ''
`` We be not allow to speak anything else at Vevay . ''
`` Do say some !
I can read it , but ca n't pronounce . ''
`` Quel nom a cette jeune demoiselle en le pantoufles jolis ? ''
`` How nicely you do it !
Let me see ... you say , ` Who be the young lady in the pretty slipper ' , do n't you ? ''
`` Oui , mademoiselle . ''
`` It 's my sister Margaret , and you know it be !
Do you think she be pretty ? ''
`` Yes , she make me think of the German girl , she look so fresh and quiet , and dance like a lady . ''
Jo quite glow with pleasure at this boyish praise of her sister , and store it up to repeat to Meg .
Both peep and criticize and chat till they felt like old acquaintance .
Laurie 's bashfulness soon wear off , for Jo 's gentlemanly demeanor amuse and set him at his ease , and Jo be her merry self again , because her dress be forget and nobody lift their eyebrow at her .
She like the ` Laurence boy ' good than ever and take several good look at him , so that she might describe him to the girl , for they have no brother , very few male cousin , and boy be almost unknown creature to them .
`` Curly black hair , brown skin , big black eye , handsome nose , fine teeth , small hand and foot , taller than I be , very polite , for a boy , and altogether jolly .
Wonder how old he be ? ''
It be on the tip of Jo 's tongue to ask , but she check herself in time and , with unusual tact , try to find out in a round-about way .
`` I suppose you be go to college soon ?
I see you peg away at your book , no , I mean study hard . ''
And Jo blush at the dreadful ` peg ' which have escape her .
Laurie smile but do n't seem shock , and answer with a shrug .
`` Not for a year or two .
I wo n't go before seventeen , anyway . ''
`` Are n't you but fifteen ? ''
ask Jo , look at the tall lad , whom she have imagine seventeen already .
`` Sixteen , next month . ''
`` How I wish I be go to college !
You do n't look a if you like it . ''
`` I hate it !
Nothing but grinding or skylarking .
And I do n't like the way fellows do either , in this country . ''
`` What do you like ? ''
`` To live in Italy , and to enjoy myself in my own way . ''
Jo want very much to ask what his own way be , but his black brow look rather threaten a he knit them , so she change the subject by say , a her foot keep time , `` That 's a splendid polka !
Why do n't you go and try it ? ''
`` If you will come too , '' he answer , with a gallant little bow .
`` I ca n't , for I tell Meg I would n't , because ... '' There Jo stop , and look undecided whether to tell or to laugh .
`` Because , what ? ''
`` You wo n't tell ? ''
`` Never ! ''
`` Well , I have a bad trick of stand before the fire , and so I burn my frock , and I scorch this one , and though it 's nicely mend , it show , and Meg tell me to keep still so no one would see it .
You may laugh , if you want to .
It be funny , I know . ''
But Laurie do n't laugh .
He only look down a minute , and the expression of his face puzzle Jo when he say very gently , `` Never mind that .
I 'll tell you how we can manage .
There 's a long hall out there , and we can dance grandly , and no one will see u .
Please come . ''
Jo thank him and gladly go , wish she have two neat glove when she saw the nice , pearl-colored one her partner wore .
The hall be empty , and they have a grand polka , for Laurie dance well , and teach her the German step , which delight Jo , be full of swing and spring .
When the music stop , they sit down on the stair to get their breath , and Laurie be in the midst of an account of a student ' festival at Heidelberg when Meg appear in search of her sister .
She beckon , and Jo reluctantly follow her into a side room , where she find her on a sofa , hold her foot , and look pale .
`` I 've sprain my ankle .
That stupid high heel turn and give me a sad wrench .
It ache so , I can hardly stand , and I do n't know how I 'm ever go to get home , '' she say , rock to and fro in pain .
`` I know you 'd hurt your foot with those silly shoe .
I 'm sorry .
But I do n't see what you can do , except get a carriage , or stay here all night , '' answer Jo , softly rub the poor ankle a she speak .
`` I ca n't have a carriage without it costing ever so much .
I dare say I ca n't get one at all , for most people come in their own , and it 's a long way to the stable , and no one to send . ''
`` I 'll go . ''
`` No , indeed !
It 's past nine , and dark a Egypt .
I ca n't stop here , for the house be full .
Sallie have some girl stay with her .
I 'll rest till Hannah come , and then do the best I can . ''
`` I 'll ask Laurie .
He will go , '' say Jo , look relieve a the idea occur to her .
`` Mercy , no !
Do n't ask or tell anyone .
Get me my rubber , and put these slipper with our thing .
I ca n't dance anymore , but as soon a supper be over , watch for Hannah and tell me the minute she come . ''
`` They be go out to supper now .
I 'll stay with you .
I 'd rather . ''
`` No , dear , run along , and bring me some coffee .
I 'm so tired I ca n't stir . ''
So Meg recline , with rubber well hidden , and Jo go blunder away to the dining room , which she find after go into a china closet , and open the door of a room where old Mr. Gardiner be take a little private refreshment .
Making a dart at the table , she secure the coffee , which she immediately spill , thereby make the front of her dress as bad a the back .
`` Oh , dear , what a blunderbuss I be ! ''
exclaim Jo , finish Meg 's glove by scrub her gown with it .
`` Can I help you ? ''
say a friendly voice .
And there be Laurie , with a full cup in one hand and a plate of ice in the other .
`` I be try to get something for Meg , who be very tired , and someone shook me , and here I be in a nice state , '' answer Jo , glance dismally from the stain skirt to the coffee-colored glove .
`` Too bad !
I be look for someone to give this to .
May I take it to your sister ? ''
`` Oh , thank you !
I 'll show you where she be .
I do n't offer to take it myself , for I should only get into another scrape if I do . ''
Jo lead the way , and a if use to wait on lady , Laurie draw up a little table , bring a second installment of coffee and ice for Jo , and be so oblige that even particular Meg pronounce him a ` nice boy ' .
They have a merry time over the bonbon and motto , and be in the midst of a quiet game of Buzz , with two or three other young people who have stray in , when Hannah appear .
Meg forget her foot and rise so quickly that she be force to catch hold of Jo , with an exclamation of pain .
`` Hush !
Do n't say anything , '' she whisper , add aloud , `` It 's nothing .
I turn my foot a little , that 's all , '' and limp upstairs to put her thing on .
Hannah scold , Meg cry , and Jo be at her wit ' end , till she decide to take thing into her own hand .
Slipping out , she run down and , find a servant , ask if he could get her a carriage .
It happen to be a hired waiter who know nothing about the neighborhood and Jo be look round for help when Laurie , who have hear what she say , come up and offer his grandfather 's carriage , which have just come for him , he say .
`` It 's so early !
You ca n't mean to go yet ? ''
begin Jo , look relieve but hesitate to accept the offer .
`` I always go early , I do , truly !
Please let me take you home .
It 's all on my way , you know , and it rain , they say . ''
That settle it , and tell him of Meg 's mishap , Jo gratefully accept and rush up to bring down the rest of the party .
Hannah hat rain as much a a cat do so she make no trouble , and they roll away in the luxurious close carriage , feel very festive and elegant .
Laurie go on the box so Meg could keep her foot up , and the girl talk over their party in freedom .
`` I have a capital time .
Did you ? ''
ask Jo , rumple up her hair , and make herself comfortable .
`` Yes , till I hurt myself .
Sallie 's friend , Annie Moffat , take a fancy to me , and ask me to come and spend a week with her when Sallie do .
She be go in the spring when the opera come , and it will be perfectly splendid , if Mother only let me go , '' answer Meg , cheer up at the thought .
`` I saw you dance with the red head man I run away from .
Was he nice ? ''
`` Oh , very !
His hair be auburn , not red , and he be very polite , and I have a delicious redowa with him . ''
`` He look like a grasshopper in a fit when he do the new step .
Laurie and I could n't help laughing .
Did you hear u ? ''
`` No , but it be very rude .
What be you about all that time , hide away there ? ''
