I wonder to whom they belong ? '
` To your Habogi , ' reply he ; ` and some day you shall have as much milk a you like , but we can not stop now .
Do you see that big grey one , with the silver bell between her horn ?
That be to be yours , and you can have her milk every morning the moment you wake . '
And Helga 's eye shone , and though she do not say anything , she think that she would learn to milk the cow herself .
A mile far on they come to a wide common , with short , springy turf , where horse of all colour , with skin of satin , be kick up their heel in play .
The sight of them so delighted Helga that she nearly spring from her saddle with a shriek of joy .
` Whose be they ? '
Oh !
whose be they ? '
she ask .
` How happy any man must be who be the master of such lovely creature ! '
` They be your Habogi 's , ' reply he , ` and the one which you think the most beautiful of all you shall have for yourself , and learn to ride him . '
At this Helga quite forget the sheep and the cow . '
A horse of my own ! '
say she .
` Oh , stop one moment , and let me see which I will choose .
The white one ?
No .
The chestnut ?
No .
I think , after all , I like the coal-black one best , with the little white star on his forehead .
Oh , do stop , just for a minute . '
But Habogi would not stop or listen .
` When you be marry you will have plenty of time to choose one , ' be all he answer , and they ride on two or three mile far .
At length Habogi draw rein before a small house , very ugly and mean-looking , and that seem on the point of tumble to piece .
` This be my house , and be to be yours , ' say Habogi , a he jump down and hold out his arm to lift Helga from the horse .
The girl 's heart sink a little , a she think that the man who possess such wonderful sheep , and cow , and horse , might have build himself a pretty place to live in ; but she do not say so .
And , take her arm , he lead her up the step .
But when she get inside , she stand quite bewilder at the beauty of all around her .
None of her friend own such thing , not even the miller , who be the rich man she know .
There be carpet everywhere , thick and soft , and of deep rich colour ; and the cushion be of silk , and make you sleepy even to look at them ; and curious little figure in china be scatter about .
Helga felt a if it would take her all her life to see everything properly , and it only seem a second since she have enter the house , when Habogi come up to her . '
I must begin the preparation for our wedding at once , ' he say ; ` but my foster-brother will take you home , a I promise .
In three day he will bring you back here , with your parent and sister , and any guest you may invite , in your company .
By that time the feast will be ready . '
Helga have so much to think about , that the ride home appear very short .
Her father and mother be delight to see her , a they do not feel sure that so ugly and cross-looking a man a Habogi might not have play her some cruel trick .
And after they have give her some supper they beg her to tell them all she have do .
But Helga only tell them that they should see for themselves on the third day , when they would come to her wedding .
It be very early in the morning when the party set out , and Helga 's two sister grow green with envy a they pass the flock of sheep , and cow , and horse , and hear that the best of each be give to Helga herself ; but when they catch sight of the poor little house which be to be her home their heart grow light again . '
I should be ashamed of living in such a place , ' whisper each to the other ; and the eldest sister spoke of the carved stone over HER doorway , and the second boast of the number of room SHE have .
But the moment they go inside they be strike dumb with rage at the splendour of everything , and their face grow white and cold with fury when they saw the dress which Habogi have prepare for his bride -- a dress that glitter like sunbeam dance upon ice .
` She SHALL not look so much fine than u , ' they cry passionately to each other as soon a they be alone ; and when night come they steal out of their room , and take out the wedding-dress , they lay it in the ash-pit , and heap ash upon it .
But Habogi , who know a little magic , and have guess what they would do , change the ash into rose , and cast a spell over the sister , so that they could not leave the spot for a whole day , and every one who pass by mock at them .
The next morning when they all awake the ugly tumble-down house have disappear , and in it place stand a splendid palace .
The guest ' eye seek in vain for the bridegroom , but could only see a handsome young man , with a coat of blue velvet and silver and a gold crown upon his head .
` Who be that ? '
they ask Helga .
` That be my Habogi , ' say she .
-LSB- From Neuislandischem Volksmarcher . -RSB-
How the Little Brother Set Free His Big Brothers In a small hut , right in the middle of the forest , live a man , his wife , three son and a daughter .
For some reason , all the animal seem to have leave that part of the country , and food grow very scarce ; so , one morning , after a night of snow , when the track of beast might be easily see , the three boy start off to hunt .
They keep together for some time , till they reach a place where the path they have be follow split into two , and one of the brother call his dog and go to the left , while the others take the trail to the right .
These have not go far when their dog scent a bear , and drive him out from the thicket .
The bear run across a clearing , and the elder brother manage to place an arrow right in his head .
They both take up the bear , and carry it towards home , meet the third at the spot where they have part from him .
When they reach home they throw the bear down on the floor of the hut say , ` Father , here be a bear which we kill ; now we can have some dinner . '
But the father , who be in a bad temper , only say : ` When I be a young man we use to get two bear in one day . '
The son be rather disappoint at hear this , and though there be plenty of meat to last for two or three day , they start off early in the morning down the same trail that they have follow before .
As they draw near the fork a bear suddenly run out from behind a tree , and take the path on the right .
The two elder boy and their dog pursue him , and soon the second son , who be also a good shot , kill him instantly with an arrow .
At the fork of the trail , on their way home , they meet the young , who have take the left-hand road , and have shoot a bear for himself .
But when they throw the two bear triumphantly on the floor of the hut their father hardly look at them , and only say : ` When I be a young man I use to get three bear in one day . '
The next day they be lucky than before , and bring back three bear , on which their father tell them that HE have always kill four .
However , that do not prevent him from skin the bear and cook them in a way of his own , which he think very good , and they all eat an excellent supper .
Now these bear be the servant of the great bear chief who live in a high mountain a long way off .
And every time a bear be kill his shadow return to the house of the bear chief , with the mark of his wound plainly to bee see by the rest .
The chief be furious at the number of bear the hunter have kill , and determine that he would find some way of destroy them .
So he call another of his servant , and say to him : ` Go to the thicket near the fork , where the boy kill your brother , and directly they or the dog see you return here as fast a ever you can .
The mountain will open to let you in , and the hunter will follow you .
Then I shall have them in my power , and be able to revenge myself . '
The servant bow low , and start at once for the fork , where he hide himself in the bush .
By-and-by the boy come in sight , but this time there be only two of them , a the young have stay at home .
The air be warm and damp , and the snow soft and slushy , and the elder brother 's bowstring hung loose , while the bow of the young caught in a tree and snap in half .
At that moment the dog begin to bark loudly , and the bear rush out of the thicket and set off in the direction of the mountain .
Without think that they have nothing to defend themselves with , should the bear turn and attack them , the boy give chase .
The bear , who know quite well that he could not be shoot , sometimes slacken his pace and let the dog get quite close ; and in this way the elder son reach the mountain without observe it , while his brother , who have hurt his foot , be still far behind .
As he run up , the mountain open to admit the bear , and the boy , who be close on his heel , rush in after him , and do not know where he be till he saw bear sit on every side of him , hold a council .
The animal he have be chase sank pant in their midst , and the boy , very much frighten , stand still , let his bow fall to the ground .
` Why be you try to kill all my servant ? '
ask the chief .
` Look round and see their shade , with arrow stick in them .
It be I who tell the bear to-day how he be to lure you into my power .
I shall take care that you shall not hurt my people any more , because you will become a bear yourself . '
At this moment the second brother come up -- for the mountain have be leave open on purpose to tempt him also -- and cry out breathlessly : ` Do n't you see that the bear be lie close to you ?
Why do n't you shoot him ? '
And , without wait for a reply , press forward to drive his arrow into the heart of the bear .
But the elder one catch his raised arm , and whisper : ` Be quiet !
ca n't you tell where you be ? '
Then the boy look up and saw the angry bear about him .
On the one side be the servant of the chief , and on the other the servant of the chief 's sister , who be sorry for the two youth , and beg that their life might be spar .
The chief answer that he would not kill them , but only cast a spell over them , by which their head and body should remain a they be , but their arm and leg should change into those of a bear , so that they would go on all four for the rest of their life .
And , stoop over a spring of water , he dip a handful of moss in it and rub it over the arm and leg of the boy .
In an instant the transformation take place , and two creature , neither beast nor human stood before the chief .
Now the bear chief of course know that the boy ' father would seek for his son when they do not return home , so he send another of his servant to the hiding-place at the fork of the trail to see what would happen .
He have not wait long , when the father come in sight , stoop a he go to look for his son ' track in the snow .
When he saw the mark of snow-shoes along the path on the right he be fill with joy , not know that the servant have make some fresh track on purpose to mislead him ; and he hasten forward so fast that he fell headlong into a pit , where the bear be sit .
Before he could pick himself up the bear have quietly break his neck , and , hide the body under the snow , sit down to see if anyone else would pass that way .
Meanwhile the mother at home be wonder what have become of her two son , and a the hour go on , and their father never return , she make up her mind to go and look for him .
The young boy beg her to let him undertake the search , but she would not hear of it , and tell him he must stay at home and take care of his sister .
So , slip on her snow-shoes , she start on her way .
As no fresh snow have fall , the trail be quite easy to find , and she walk straight on , till it lead her up to the pit where the bear be wait for her .
He grasp her a she fell and break her neck , after which he lay her in the snow beside her husband , and go back to tell the bear chief .
Hour after hour drag heavily by in the forest hut , and at last the brother and sister felt quite sure that in some way or other all the rest of the family have perish .
Day after day the boy climb to the top of a tall tree near the house , and sit there till he be almost frozen , look on all side through the forest opening , hop that he might see someone come along .
Very soon all the food in the house be eat , and he know he would have to go out and hunt for more .
Besides , he wish to seek for his parent .
The little girl do not like be leave alone in the hut , and cry bitterly ; but her brother tell her that there be no use sit down quietly to starve , and that whether he find any game or not he would certainly be back before the following night .
Then he cut himself some arrow , each from a different tree , and wing with the feather of four different bird .
He then make himself a bow , very light and strong , and get down his snow-shoes .
All this take some time , and he could not start that day , but early next morning he call his little dog Redmouth , whom he keep in a box , and set out .
After he have follow the trail for a great distance he grow very tired , and sit upon the branch of a tree to rest .
But Redmouth bark so furiously that the boy think that perhaps his parent might have be kill under it branch , and step back , shoot one of his arrow at the root of the tree .
Whereupon a noise like thunder shook it from top to bottom , fire break out , and in a few minute a little heap of ash lay in the place where it have stand .
Not know quite what to make of it all , the boy continue on the trail , and go down the right-hand fork till he come to the clump of bush where the bear use to hide .
Now , a be plain by his be able to change the shape of the two brother , the bear chief know a good deal of magic , and he be quite aware that the little boy be follow the trail , and he send a very small but clever bear servant to wait for him in the bush and to try to tempt him into the mountain .
But somehow his spell could not have work properly that day , a the bear chief do not know that Redmouth have go with his master , or he would have be more careful .
For the moment the dog run round the bush bark loudly , the little bear servant rush out in a fright , and set out for the mountain a fast a he could .
The dog follow the bear , and the boy follow the dog , until the mountain , the house of the great bear chief , come in sight .
But along the road the snow be so wet and heavy that the boy could hardly get along , and then the thong of his snow-shoes broke , and he have to stop and mend it , so that the bear and the dog get so far ahead that he could scarcely hear the barking .
When the strap be firm again the boy speak to his snow-shoes and say : ` Now you must go as fast a you can , or , if not , I shall lose the dog as well a the bear . '
And the snow-shoes sang in answer that they would run like the wind .
As he come along , the bear chief 's sister be look out of the window , and take pity on this little brother , a she have on the two elder one , and wait to see what the boy would do , when he find that the bear servant and the dog have already enter the mountain .
The little brother be certainly very much puzzle at not see anything of either of the animal , which have vanish suddenly out of his sight .
He pause for an instant to think what he should do next , and while he do so he fancy he hear Redmouth 's voice on the opposite side of the mountain .
With great difficulty he scramble over steep rock , and force a path through tangled thicket ; but when he reach the other side the sound appear to start from the place from which he have come .
Then he have to go all the way back again , and at the very top , where he stop to rest , the barking be directly beneath him , and he know in an instant where he be and what have happen .
` Let my dog out at once , bear chief ! '
cry he .
` If you do not , I shall destroy your palace . '
But the bear chief only laugh , and say nothing .
The boy be very angry at his silence , and aim one of his arrow at the bottom of the mountain , shot straight through it .
As the arrow touch the ground a rumbling be hear , and with a roar a fire break out which seem to split the whole mountain into piece .
The bear chief and all his servant be burn up in the flame , but his sister and all that belong to her be spar because she have try to save the two elder boy from punishment .
As soon a the fire have burn itself out the little hunter enter what be leave of the mountain , and the first thing he saw be his two brother -- half bear , half boy .
` Oh , help u !
help u ! '
cry they , stand on their hind leg a they speak , and stretch out their fore-paws to him .
` But how be I to help you ? '
ask the little brother , almost weep . '
I can kill people , and destroy tree and mountain , but I have no power over men . '
And the two elder brother come up and put their paw on his shoulder , and they all three wept together .
The heart of the bear chief 's sister be move when she saw their misery , and she come gently up behind , and whisper : ` Little boy , gather some moss from the spring over there , and let your brother smell it . '
With a bound all three be at the spring , and a the young pluck a handful of wet moss , the two others sniff at it with all their might .
Then the bearskin fell away from them , and they stand upright once more .
` How can we thank you ?
how can we thank you ? '
they stammer , hardly able to speak ; and fell at her foot in gratitude .
But the bear 's sister only smile , and bid them go home and look after the little girl , who have no one else to protect her .
And this the boy do , and take such good care of their sister that , a she be very small , she soon forget that she have ever have a father and mother .
-LSB- From the Bureau of Ethnology , U.S. -RSB- The Sacred Milk of Koumongoe Far way , in a very hot country , there once live a man and woman who have two child , a son name Koane and a daughter call Thakane .
Early in the morning and late in the evening the parent work hard in the field , rest , when the sun be high , under the shade of some tree .
While they be absent the little girl keep house alone , for her brother always get up before the dawn , when the air be fresh and cool , and drive out the cattle to the sweet patch of grass he could find .
One day , when Koane have sleep later than usual , his father and mother go to their work before him , and there be only Thakane to be see busy make the bread for supper .
` Thakane , ' he say , ' I be thirsty .
Give me a drink from the tree Koumongoe , which have the best milk in the world . '
` Oh , Koane , ' cry his sister , ` you know that we be forbidden to touch that tree .
What would father say when he come home ?
For he would be sure to know . '
` Nonsense , ' reply Koane , ` there be so much milk in Koumongoe that he will never miss a little .
If you wo n't give it to me , I sha 'n ' t take the cattle out .
They will just have to stay all day in the hut , and you know that they will starve . '
And he turn from her in a rage , and sit down in the corner .
After a while Thakane say to him : ` It be get hot , have you well drive out the cattle now ? '
But Koane only answer sulkily : ' I tell you I be not go to drive them out at all .
If I have to do without milk , they shall do without grass . '
Thakane do not know what to do .
She be afraid to disobey her parent , who would most likely beat her , yet the beast would be sure to suffer if they be keep in , and she would perhaps be beat for that too .
So at last she take an axe and a tiny earthen bowl , she cut a very small hole in the side of Koumongoe , and out gush enough milk to fill the bowl .
` Here be the milk you want , ' say she , go up to Koane , who be still sulk in his corner .
` What be the use of that ? '
grumble Koane ; ` why , there be not enough to drown a fly .
Go and get me three time a much ! '
Trembling with fright , Thakane return to the tree , and strike it a sharp blow with the axe .
In an instant there pour forth such a stream of milk that it run like a river into the hut .
` Koane !
Koane ! '
cry she , ` come and help me to plug up the hole .
There will be no milk leave for our father and mother . '
But Koane could not stop it any more than Thakane , and soon the milk be flow through the hut downhill towards their parent in the field below .
The man saw a white stream a long way off , and guess what have happen .
` Wife , wife , ' he call loudly to the woman , who be work at a little distance : ` Do you see Koumongoe run fast down the hill ?
That be some mischief of the child 's , I be sure .
I must go home and find out what be the matter . '
And they both throw down their hoe and hurry to the side of Koumongoe .
Kneeling on the grass , the man and his wife make a cup of their hand and drink the milk from it .
And no sooner have they do this , than Koumongoe flow back again up the hill , and enter the hut .
` Thakane , ' say the parent , severely , when they reach home panting from the heat of the sun , ` what have you be do ?
Why do Koumongoe come to u in the field instead of stay in the garden ? '
` It be Koane 's fault , ' answer Thakane .
` He would not take the cattle to fee until he drink some of the milk from Koumongoe .
So , a I do not know what else to do , I give it to him . '
The father listen to Thakane 's word , but make no answer .
Instead , he go outside and bring in two sheepskin , which he stain red and send for a blacksmith to forge some iron ring .
The ring be then pass over Thakane 's arm and leg and neck , and the skin fasten on her before and behind .
When all be ready , the man send for his servant and say : ' I be go to get rid of Thakane . '
` Get rid of your only daughter ? '
they answer , in surprise .
` But why ? '
` Because she have eat what she ought not to have eat .
She have touch the sacred tree which belong to her mother and me alone . '
And , turn his back , he call to Thakane to follow him , and they go down the road which lead to the dwelling of an ogre .
They be pass along some field where the corn be ripen , when a rabbit suddenly spring out at their foot , and stand on it hind leg , it sing : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You have good ask her , ' reply the man , ` she be old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I give Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beast ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadow : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That be why I give him the Koumongoe of my father .
And when the rabbit heard that , he cry : ` Wretched man !
it be you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
But the father pay no heed to what the rabbit say , and only walk on the faster , bid Thakane to keep close behind him .
By-and-by they meet with a troop of great deer , call eland , and they stop when they saw Thakane and sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You have good ask her , reply the man , ` she be old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I give Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beast ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadow : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That be why I give him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the eland all cry : ` Wretched man !
it be you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
By this time it be nearly dark , and the father say they could travel no further that night , and must go to sleep where they be .
Thakane be thankful indeed when she hear this , for she be very tired , and find the two skin fasten round her almost too heavy to carry .
So , in spite of her dread of the ogre , she sleep till dawn , when her father wake her , and tell her roughly that he be ready to continue their journey .
Crossing the plain , the girl and her father pass a herd of gazelle feed .
They lift their head , wonder who be out so early , and when they catch sight of Thakane , they sing : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You have good ask her , reply the man , ` she be old enough to answer for herself . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I give Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beast ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadow : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That be why I give him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the gazelle all cry : ` Wretched man !
it be you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
At last they arrive at the village where the ogre live , and they go straight to his hut .
He be nowhere to be see , but in his place be his son Masilo , who be not an ogre at all , but a very polite young man .
He order his servant to bring a pile of skin for Thakane to sit on , but tell her father he must sit on the ground .
Then , catch sight of the girl 's face , which she have keep down , he be strike by it beauty , and put the same question that the rabbit , and the eland , and the gazelle have do .
Thakane answer him a before , and he instantly command that she should be take to the hut of his mother , and place under her care , while the man should be lead to his father .
Directly the ogre saw him he bid the servant throw him into the great pot which always stand ready on the fire , and in five minute he be do to a turn .
After that the servant return to Masilo and relate all that have happen .
Now Masilo have fall in love with Thakane the moment he saw her .
At first he do not know what to make of this strange feeling , for all his life he have hat woman , and have refuse several bride whom his parent have choose for him .
However , they be so anxious that he should marry , that they willingly accept Thakane a their daughter-in-law , though she do bring any marriage portion with her .
After some time a baby be bear to her , and Thakane think it be the most beautiful baby that ever be see .
But when her mother-in-law saw it be a girl , she wring her hand and wept , say : ' O miserable mother !
Miserable child !
Alas for you !
why be you not a boy ! '
Thakane , in great surprise , ask the meaning of her distress ; and the old woman tell her that it be the custom in that country that all the girl who be bear should be give to the ogre to eat .
Then Thakane clasp the baby tightly in her arm , and cry : ` But it be not the customer in MY country !
There , when child die , they be bury in the earth .
No one shall take my baby from me . '
That night , when everyone in the hut be asleep , Thakane rise , and carry her baby on her back , go down to a place where the river spread itself out into a large lake , with tall willow all round the bank .
Here , hide from everyone , she sit down on a stone and begin to think what she should do to save her child .
Suddenly she hear a rustling among the willow , and an old woman appear before her .
` What be you cry for , my dear ? '
say she .
And Thakane answer : ' I be cry for my baby -- I can not hide her for ever , and if the ogre see her , he will eat her ; and I would rather she be drown than that . '
` What you say be true , ' reply the old woman .
` Give me your child , and let me take care of it .
And if you will fix a day to meet me here I will bring the baby . '
Then Thakane dry her eye , and gladly accept the old woman 's offer .
When she get home she tell her husband she have throw it in the river , and a he have watch her go in that direction he never think of doubt what she say .
On the appoint day , Thakane slip out when everybody be busy , and run down the path that lead to the lake .
As soon a she get there , she crouch down among the willow , and sing softly : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And in a moment the old woman appear hold the baby in her arm .
Dilah have become so big and strong , that Thakane 's heart be fill with joy and gratitude , and she stay as long a she dare , play with her baby .
At last she felt she must return to the village , lest she should be miss , and the child be hand back to the old woman , who vanish with her into the lake .
Children grow up very quickly when they live under water , and in less time than anyone could suppose , Dilah have change from a baby to a woman .
Her mother come to visit her whenever she be able , and one day , when they be sit talk together , they be spy out by a man who have come to cut willow to weave into basket .
He be so surprised to see how like the face of the girl be to Masilo , that he leave his work and return to the village .
` Masilo , ' he say , a he enter the hut , ' I have just behold your wife near the river with a girl who must be your daughter , she be so like you .
We have be deceive , for we all think she be dead . '
When he hear this , Masilo try to look shocked because his wife have break the law ; but in his heart he be very glad .
` But what shall we do now ? '
ask he .
` Make sure for yourself that I be speak the truth by hide among the bush the first time Thakane say she be go to bathe in the river , and wait till the girl appear . '
For some day Thakane stay quietly at home , and her husband begin to think that the man have be mistake ; but at last she say to her husband : ' I be go to bathe in the river . '
` Well , you can go , ' answer he .
But he run down quickly by another path , and get there first , and hid himself in the bush .
An instant later , Thakane arrive , and stand on the bank , she sing : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
Then the old woman come out of the water , hold the girl , now tall and slender , by the hand .
And a Masilo look , he saw that she be indeed his daughter , and he weep for joy that she be not lie dead in the bottom of the lake .
The old woman , however , seem uneasy , and say to Thakane : ' I feel a if someone be watch u .
I will not leave the girl to-day , but will take her back with me ' ; and sink beneath the surface , she draw the girl after her .
After they have go , Thakane return to the village , which Masilo have manage to reach before her .
All the rest of the day he sit in a corner weeping , and his mother who come in ask : ` Why be you weep so bitterly , my son ? '
` My head ache , ' he answer ; ` it ache very badly . '
And his mother pass on , and leave him alone .
In the evening he say to his wife : ' I have see my daughter , in the place where you tell me you have drown her .
Instead , she live at the bottom of the lake , and have now grow into a young woman . ' '
I do n't know what you be talk about , ' reply Thakane . '
I bury my child under the sand on the beach . '
Then Masilo implore her to give the child back to him ; but she would not listen , and only answer : ` If I be to give her back you would only obey the law of your country and take her to your father , the ogre , and she would be eat . '
But Masilo promise that he would never let his father see her , and that now she be a woman no one would try to hurt her ; so Thakane 's heart melt , and she go down to the lake to consult the old woman .
` What be I to do ? '
she ask , when , after clap her hand , the old woman appear before her .
` Yesterday Masilo beheld Dilah , and ever since he have entreat me to give him back his daughter . '
` If I let her go he must pay me a thousand head of cattle in exchange , ' reply the old woman .
And Thakane carry her answer back to Masilo .
` Why , I would gladly give her two thousand ! '
cry he , ` for she have save my daughter . '
And he bid messenger hasten to all the neighbouring village , and tell his people to send him at once all the cattle he possess .
When they be all assemble he choose a thousand of the fine bull and cow , and drive them down to the river , follow by a great crowd wonder what would happen .
Then Thakane step forward in front of the cattle and sang : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And Dilah come from the water hold out her hand to Masilo and Thakane , and in her place the cattle sink into the lake , and be drive by the old woman to the great city fill with people , which lie at the bottom .
-LSB- Contes Populaires des Bassoutos . -RSB-
The Wicked Wolverine One day a wolverine be out walk on the hill-side , when , on turn a corner , he suddenly saw a large rock .
` Was that you I hear walk about just now ? '
he ask , for wolverine be cautious animal , and always like to know the reason of thing .
` No , certainly not , ' answer the rock ; ' I do n't know how to walk . '
` But I SAW you walk , ' continue the wolverine . '
I be afraid that you be not teach to speak the truth , ' retort the rock .
` You need not speak like that , for I have SEEN you walk , ' reply the wolverine , ` though I be quite sure that you could never catch ME ! '
and he run a little distance and then stop to see if the rock be pursue him ; but , to his vexation , the rock be still in the same place .
Then the wolverine go up close , and strike the rock a blow with his paw , say : ` Well , will you catch me NOW ? ' '
I ca n't walk , but I can ROLL , ' answer the rock .
And the wolverine laugh and say : ` Oh , that will do just as well ' ; and begin to run down the side of the mountain .
At first he go quite slowly , ` just to give the rock a chance , ' he think to himself ; but soon he quicken his pace , for he find that the rock be almost at his heel .
But the fast the wolverine ran , the fast the rock roll , and by-and-by the little creature begin to get very tired , and be sorry he have not leave the rock to itself .
Thinking that if he could manage to put on a spurt he would reach the forest of great tree at the bottom of the mountain , where the rock could not come , he gather up all his strength , and instead of run he leap over stick and stone , but , whatever he do , the rock be always close behind him .
At length he grow so weary that he could not even see where he be go , and catch his foot in a branch he trip and fell .
The rock stop at once , but there come a shriek from the wolverine : ` Get off , get off !
ca n't you see that you be on my leg ? '
` Why do you not leave me alone ? '
ask the rock . '
I do not want to move -- I hate move .
But you WOULD have it , and I certainly sha 'n ' t move now till I be force to . ' '
I will call my brother , ' answer the wolverine .
` There be many of them in the forest , and you will soon see that they be strong than you . '
And he call , and call , and call , till wolf and fox and all sort of other creature all come run to see what be the matter .
` How DID you get under that rock ? '
ask they , make a ring round him ; but they have to repeat their question several time before the wolverine would answer , for he , like many other person , find it hard to confess that he have bring his trouble on himself .
` Well , I be dull , and want someone to play with me , ' he say at last , in sulky voice , ` and I challenge the rock to catch me .
Of course I think I could run the fast ; but I trip , and it roll on me .
It be just an accident . '
` It serve you right for be so silly , ' say they ; but they push and haul at the rock for a long time without make it move an inch .
` You be no good at all , ' cry the wolverine crossly , for it be suffer great pain , ` and if you can not get me free , I shall see what my friends the lightning and thunder can do . '
And he call loudly to the lightning to come and help him as quickly a possible .
In a few minute a dark cloud come roll up the sky , give out such terrific clap of thunder that the wolf and the fox and all the other creature run helter-skelter in all direction .
But , frighten though they be , they do not forget to beg the lightning to take off the wolverine 's coat and to free his leg , but to be careful not to hurt him .
So the lightning disappear into the cloud for a moment to gather up fresh strength , and then come rush down , right upon the rock , which it send fly in all direction , and take the wolverine 's coat so neatly that , though it be tear into tiny shred , the wolverine himself be quite unharmed .
` That be rather clumsy of you , ' say he , stand up naked in his flesh .
` Surely you could have split the rock without tear my coat to bits ! '
And he stoop down to pick up the piece .
It take him a long time , for there be a great many of them , but at last he have them all in his hand .
` I 'll go to my sister the frog , ' he think to himself , ` and she will sew them together for me ' ; and he set off at once for the swamp in which his sister live .
` Will you sew my coat together ?
I have an unlucky accident , and it be quite impossible to wear , ' he say , when he find her .
` With pleasure , ' she answer , for she have always be teach to be polite ; and get her needle and thread she begin to fit the piece .
But though she be very good-natured , she be not very clever , and she get some of the bit wrong .
When the wolverine , who be very particular about his clothes , come to put it on , he grow very angry .
` What a useless creature you be ! '
cry he .
` Do you expect me to go about in such a coat a that ?
Why it bulge all down the back , a if I have a hump , and it be so tight across the chest that I expect it to burst every time I breathe .
I know you be stupid , but I do not think you be as stupid a that . '
And give the poor frog a blow on her head , which knock her straight into the water , he walk off in a rage to his young sister the mouse . '
I tear my coat this morning , ' he begin , when he have find her sit at the door of her house eat an apple .
` It be all in little bit , and I take it to our sister the frog to ask her to sew it for me .
But just look at the way she have do it !
You will have to take it to piece and fit them together properly , and I hope I shall not have to complain again . '
For a the wolverine be old than the mouse , he be accustom to speak to her in this manner .
However , the mouse be use to it and only answer : ' I think you have good stay here till it be do , and if there be any alteration need I can make it . '
So the wolverine sit down on a heap of dry fern , and pick up the apple , he finish it without even ask the mouse 's leave .
At last the coat be ready , and the wolverine put it on .
` Yes , it fit very well , ' say he , ` and you have sew it very neatly .
When I pass this way again I will bring you a handful of corn , a a reward ' ; and he run off as smart a ever , leave the mouse quite grateful behind him .
He wander about for many day , till he reach a place where food be very scarce , and for a whole week he go without any .
He be grow desperate , when he suddenly come upon a bear that be lie asleep .
` Ah !
here be food at last ! '
thought he ; but how be he to kill the bear , who be so much big than himself ?
It be no use to try force , he must invent some cunning plan which would get her into his power .
At last , after think hard , he decide upon something , and go up to the bear , he exclaim : ` Is that you , my sister ? '
The bear turn round and saw the wolverine , and murmur to herself , so low that nobody could hear , ' I never hear before that I have a brother , ' get up and run quickly to a tree , up which she climb .
Now the wolverine be very angry when he saw his dinner vanish in front of him , especially a HE could not climb tree like the bear , so he follow , and stand at the foot of the tree , shriek as loud a he could , ` Come down , sister ; our father have send me to look for you !
You be lose when you be a little girl and go out pick berry , and it be only the other day that we hear from a beaver where you be . '
At these word , the bear come a little way down the tree , and the wolverine , see this , go on : ` Are you not fond of berry ?
I be !
And I know a place where they grow so thick the ground be quite hidden .
Why , look for yourself !
That hillside be quite red with them ! ' '
I ca n't see so far , ' answer the bear , now climb down altogether .
` You must have wonderfully good eye !
I wish I have ; but my sight be very short . '
` So be mine till my father smash a pailful of cranberry , and rub my eye with them , ' reply the wolverine .
` But if you like to go and gather some of the berry I will do just a he do , and you will soon be able to see as far a me . '
It take the bear a long while to gather the berry , for she be slow about everything , and , besides , it make her back ache to stoop .
But at last she return with a sackful , and put them down beside the wolverine .
` That be splendid , sister ! '
cry the wolverine .
` Now lie flat on the ground with your head on this stone , while I smash them . '
The bear , who be very tired , be only too glad to do a she be bid , and stretch herself comfortably on the grass . '
I be ready now , ' say the wolverine after a bit ; ` just at first you will find that the berry make your eye smart , but you must be careful not to move , or the juice will run out , and then it will have to be do all over again . '
So the bear promise to lie very still ; but the moment the cranberry touch her eye she spring up with a roar .
` Oh , you must n't mind a little pain , ' say the wolverine , ` it will soon be over , and then you will see all sort of thing you have never dream of . '
The bear sink down with a groan , and a her eye be full of cranberry juice , which completely blind her , the wolverine take up a sharp knife and stab her to the heart .
Then he take off the skin , and , steal some fire from a tent , which his sharp eye have perceive hide behind a rock , he set about roast the bear bit by bit .
He think the meat be the best he ever have taste , and when dinner be do he make up his mind to try that same trick again , if ever he be hungry .
And very likely he do !
-LSB- Adapted from Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
The Husband of the Rat 's Daughter Once upon a time there live in Japan a rat and his wife who come of an old and noble race , and have one daughter , the lovely girl in all the rat world .
Her parent be very proud of her , and spar no pain to teach her all she ought to know .
There be not another young lady in the whole town who be as clever a she be in gnaw through the hard wood , or who could drop from such a height on to a bed , or run away so fast if anyone be hear come .
Great attention , too , be pay to her personal appearance , and her skin shone like satin , while her teeth be as white a pearl , and beautifully point .
Of course , with all these advantage , her parent expect her to make a brilliant marriage , and , a she grow up , they begin to look round for a suitable husband .
But here a difficulty arose .
The father be a rat from the tip of his nose to the end of his tail , outside as well a in , and desire that his daughter should wed among her own people .
She have no lack of lover , but her father 's secret hope rest on a fine young rat , with moustache which almost sweep the ground , whose family be still noble and more ancient than his own .
Unluckily , the mother have other view for her precious child .
She be one of those people who always despise their own family and surroundings , and take pleasure in think that they themselves be make of finer material than the rest of the world .
` HER daughter should never marry a mere rat , ' she declare , hold her head high .
` With her beauty and talent she have a right to look for someone a little good than THAT . '
So she talk , a mother will , to anyone that would listen to her .
What the girl think about the matter nobody know or care -- it be not the fashion in the rat world .
Many be the quarrel which the old rat and his wife have upon the subject , and sometimes they bore on their face certain mark which look a if they have not keep to word only .
` Reach up to the star be MY motto , ' cry the lady one day , when she be in a great passion than usual .
` My daughter 's beauty place her high than anything upon earth , ' she cry ; ` and I be certainly not go to accept a son-in-law who be beneath her . '
` Better offer her in marriage to the sun , ' answer her husband impatiently .
` As far a I know there be nothing great than he . '
` Well , I WAS think of it , ' reply the wife , ` and a you be of the same mind , we will pay him a visit to-morrow . '
So the next morning , the two rat , have spend hour in make themselves smart , set out to see the sun , lead their daughter between them .
The journey take some time , but at length they come to the golden palace where the sun live .
` Noble king , ' begin the mother , ` behold our daughter !
She be so beautiful that she be above everything in the whole world .
Naturally , we wish for a son-in-law who , on his side , be great than all .
Therefore we have come to you . ' '
I feel very much flatter , ' reply the sun , who be so busy that he have not the least wish to marry anybody .
` You do me great honour by your proposal .
Only , in one point you be mistake , and it would be wrong of me to take advantage of your ignorance .
There be something great than I be , and that be the cloud .
Look ! '
And a he speak a cloud spread itself over the sun 's face , blot out his ray .
` Oh , well , we will speak to the cloud , ' say the mother .
And turn to the cloud she repeat her proposal .
` Indeed I be unworthy of anything so charming , ' answer the cloud ; ` but you make a mistake again in what you say .
There be one thing that be even more powerful than I , and that be the wind .
Ah , here he come , you can see for yourself . '
And she DID see , for catch up the cloud a he pass , he throw it on the other side of the sky .
Then , tumble father , mother and daughter down to the earth again , he pause for a moment beside them , his foot on an old wall .
When she have recover her breath , the mother begin her little speech once more .
` The wall be the proper husband for your daughter , ' answer the wind , whose home consist of a cave , which he only visit when he be not rush about elsewhere ; ` you can see for yourself that he be great than I , for he have power to stop me in my flight . '
And the mother , who do not trouble to conceal her wish , turn at once to the wall .
Then something happen which be quite unexpected by everyone . '
I wo n't marry that ugly old wall , which be as old a my grandfather , ' sob the girl , who have not uttered one word all this time . '
I would have marry the sun , or the cloud , or the wind , because it be my duty , although I love the handsome young rat , and him only .
But that horrid old wall -- I would sooner die ! '
And the wall , rather hurt in his feeling , declare that he have no claim to be the husband of so beautiful a girl .
` It be quite true , ' he say , ` that I can stop the wind who can part the cloud who can cover the sun ; but there be someone who can do more than all these , and that be the rat .
It be the rat who pass through me , and can reduce me to powder , simply with his teeth .
If , therefore , you want a son-in-law who be great than the whole world , seek him among the rat . '
` Ah , what do I tell you ? '
cry the father .
And his wife , though for the moment angry at be beat , soon think that a rat son-in-law be what she have always desire .
So all three return happily home , and the wedding be celebrate three day after .
-LSB- Contes Populaires . -RSB-
The Mermaid and the Boy Long , long ago , there live a king who rule over a country by the sea .
When he have be marry about a year , some of his subject , inhabit a distant group of island , revolt against his law , and it become needful for him to leave his wife and go in person to settle their dispute .
The queen fear that some ill would come of it , and implore him to stay at home , but he tell her that nobody could do his work for him , and the next morning the sail be spread , and the king start on his voyage .
The vessel have not go very far when she run upon a rock , and stick so fast in a cleft that the strength of the whole crew could not get her off again .
To make matter bad , the wind be rise too , and it be quite plain that in a few hour the ship would be dash to piece and everybody would be drown , when suddenly the form of a mermaid be see dance on the wave which threaten every moment to overwhelm them .
` There be only one way to free yourselves , ' she say to the king , bob up and down in the water a she speak , ` and that be to give me your solemn word that you will deliver to me the first child that be bear to you . '
The king hesitate at this proposal .
He hop that some day he might have child in his home , and the thought that he must yield up the heir to his crown be very bitter to him ; but just then a huge wave break with great force on the ship 's side , and his men fell on their knee and entreat him to save them .
So he promise , and this time a wave lift the vessel clean off the rock , and she be in the open sea once more .
The affair of the island take long to settle than the king have expect , and some month pass away before he return to his palace .
In his absence a son have be bear to him , and so great be his joy that he quite forget the mermaid and the price he have pay for the safety of his ship .
But a the year go on , and the baby grow into a fine big boy , the remembrance of it come back , and one day he tell the queen the whole story .
From that moment the happiness of both their life be ruin .
Every night they go to bed wonder if they should find his room empty in the morning , and every day they keep him by their side , expect him to be snatch away before their very eye .
At last the king felt that this state of thing could not continue , and he say to his wife : ` After all , the most foolish thing in the world one can do be to keep the boy here in exactly the place in which the mermaid will seek him .
Let u give him food and send him on his travel , and perhaps , if the mermaid ever blocs come to seek him , she may be content with some other child . '
And the queen agree that his plan seem the wise .
So the boy be call , and his father tell him the story of the voyage , a he have tell his mother before him .
The prince listen eagerly , and be delight to think that he be to go away all by himself to see the world , and be not in the least frightened ; for though he be now sixteen , he have scarcely be allow to walk alone beyond the palace garden .
He begin busily to make his preparation , and take off his smart velvet coat , put on instead one of green cloth , while he refuse a beautiful bag which the queen offer him to hold his food , and sling a leather knapsack over his shoulder instead , just a he have see other traveller do .
Then he bid farewell to his parent and go his way .
All through the day he walk , watch with interest the strange bird and animal that dart across his path in the forest or peep at him from behind a bush .
But a even drew on he become tired , and look about a he walk for some place where he could sleep .
At length he reach a soft mossy bank under a tree , and be just about to stretch himself out on it , when a fearful roar make him start and tremble all over .
In another moment something pass swiftly through the air and a lion stand before him .
` What be you do here ? '
ask the lion , his eye glare fiercely at the boy . '
I be fly from the mermaid , ' the prince answer , in a quaking voice .
` Give me some food then , ' say the lion , ` it be past my supper time , and I be very hungry . '
The boy be so thankful that the lion do not want to eat him , that he gladly pick up his knapsack which lay on the ground , and hold out some bread and a flask of wine . '
I feel well now , ' say the lion when he have do , ` so now I shall go to sleep on this nice soft moss , and if you like you can lie down beside me . '
So the boy and the lion sleep soundly side by side , till the sun rise . '
I must be off now , ' remark the lion , shake the boy a he speak ; ` but cut off the tip of my ear , and keep it carefully , and if you be in any danger just wish yourself a lion and you will become one on the spot .
One good turn deserve another , you know . '
The prince thank him for his kindness , and do a he be bid , and the two then bid each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feel to be a lion , ' think the boy , after he have go a little way ; and he take out the tip of the ear from the breast of his jacket and wish with all his might .
In an instant his head have swell to several time it usual size , and his neck seem very hot and heavy ; and , somehow , his hand become paws , and his skin grow hairy and yellow .
But what please him most be his long tail with a tuft at the end , which he lash and switch proudly . '
I like be a lion very much , ' he say to himself , and trot gaily along the road .
After a while , however , he get tired of walk in this unaccustomed way -- it make his back ache and his front paw felt sore .
So he wish himself a boy again , and in the twinkling of an eye his tail disappear and his head shrank , and the long thick mane become short and curly .
Then he look out for a sleeping place , and find some dry fern , which he gather and heap up .
But before he have time to close his eye there be a great noise in the tree near by , a if a big heavy body be crash through them .
The boy rise and turn his head , and saw a huge black bear come towards him .
` What be you do here ? '
cry the bear . '
I be run away from the mermaid , ' answer the boy ; but the bear take no interest in the mermaid , and only say : ' I be hungry ; give me something to eat . '
The knapsack be lie on the ground among the fern , but the prince pick it up , and , unfasten the strap , take out his second flask of wine and another loaf of bread .
` We will have supper together , ' he remark politely ; but the bear , who have never be taught manner , make no reply , and ate as fast a he could .
When he have quite finish , he get up and stretch himself .
` You have get a comfortable-looking bed there , ' he observe . '
I really think that , bad sleeper a I be , I might have a good night on it .
I can manage to squeeze you in , ' he add ; ` you do n't take up a great deal of room . '
The boy be rather indignant at the bear 's cool way of talk ; but a he be too tired to gather more fern , they lay down side by side , and never stir till sunrise next morning . '
I must go now , ' say the bear , pull the sleepy prince on to his foot ; ` but first you shall cut off the tip of my ear , and when you be in any danger just wish yourself a bear and you will become one .
One good turn deserve another , you know . '
And the boy do a he be bid , and he and the bear bade each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feel to be a bear , ' think he to himself when he have walk a little way ; and he take out the tip from the breast of his coat and wish hard that he might become a bear .
The next moment his body stretch out and thick black fur cover him all over .
As before , his hand be change into paw , but when he try to switch his tail he find to his disgust that it would not go any distance .
` Why it be hardly worth call a tail ! '
say he .
For the rest of the day he remain a bear and continue his journey , but a evening come on the bear-skin , which have be so useful when plunge through bramble in the forest , felt rather heavy , and he wish himself a boy again .
He be too much exhaust to take the trouble of cut any fern or seek for moss , but just throw himself down under a tree , when exactly above his head he hear a great buzzing a a bumble-bee alight on a honeysuckle branch .
` What be you do here ? '
ask the bee in a cross voice ; ` at your age you ought to be safe at home . ' '
I be run away from the mermaid , ' reply the boy ; but the bee , like the lion and the bear , be one of those people who never listen to the answer to their question , and only say : ' I be hungry .
Give me something to eat . '
The boy take his last loaf and flask out of his knapsack and lay them on the ground , and they have supper together .
` Well , now I be go to sleep , ' observe the bee when the last crumb be go , ` but a you be not very big I can make room for you beside me , ' and he curl up his wing , and tuck in his leg , and he and the prince both sleep soundly till morning .
Then the bee get up and carefully brush every scrap of dust off his velvet coat and buzz loudly in the boy 's ear to waken him .
` Take a single hair from one of my wing , ' say he , ` and if you be in danger just wish yourself a bee and you will become one .
One good turn deserve another , so farewell , and thank you for your supper . '
And the bee depart after the boy have pull out the hair and wrap it carefully in a leaf .
` It must feel quite different to be a bee from what it do to be a lion or bear , ' think the boy to himself when he have walk for an hour or two . '
I dare say I should get on a great deal faster , ' so he pull out his hair and wish himself a bee .
In a moment the strange thing happen to him .
All his limb seem to draw together , and his body to become very short and round ; his head grow quite tiny , and instead of his white skin he be cover with the richest , soft velvet .
Better than all , he have two lovely gauze wing which carry him the whole day without get tire .
Late in the afternoon the boy fancy he saw a vast heap of stone a long way off , and he fly straight towards it .
But when he reach the gate he saw that it be really a great town , so he wish himself back in his own shape and enter the city .
He find the palace door wide open and go boldly into a sort of hall which be full of people , and where men and maid be gossip together .
He join their talk and soon learn from them that the king have only one daughter who have such a hatred to men that she would never suffer one to enter her presence .
Her father be in despair , and have have picture paint of the handsome prince of all the court in the world , in the hope that she might fall in love with one of them ; but it be no use ; the princess would not even allow the picture to be bring into her room .
` It be late , ' remark one of the woman at last ; ' I must go to my mistress . '
And , turn to one of the lackey , she bid him find a bed for the youth .
` It be not necessary , ' answer the prince , ` this bench be good enough for me .
I be use to nothing well . '
And when the hall be empty he lay down for a few minute .
But as soon a everything be quiet in the palace he take out the hair and wish himself a bee , and in this shape he fly upstairs , past the guard , and through the keyhole into the princess 's chamber .
Then he turn himself into a man again .
At this dreadful sight the princess , who be broad awake , begin to scream loudly . '
A man !
a man ! '
cry she ; but when the guard rush in there be only a bumble-bee buzzing about the room .
They look under the bed , and behind the curtain , and into the cupboard , then come to the conclusion that the princess have have a bad dream , and bow themselves out .
The door have scarcely close on them than the bee disappear , and a handsome youth stand in his place . '
I know a man be hide somewhere , ' cry the princess , and scream more loudly than before .
Her shriek bring back the guard , but though they look in all kind of impossible place no man be to be see , and so they tell the princess .
` He be here a moment ago -- I saw him with my own eye , ' and the guard dare not contradict her , though they shake their head and whisper to each other that the princess have go mad on this subject , and saw a man in every table and chair .
And they make up their mind that -- let her scream as loudly a she might -- they would take no notice .
Now the princess saw clearly what they be think , and that in future her guard would give her no help , and would perhaps , besides , tell some story about her to the king , who would shut her up in a lonely tower and prevent her walking in the garden among her bird and flower .
So when , for the third time , she behold the prince standing before her , she do not scream but sit up in bed gazing at him in silent terror .
` Do not be afraid , ' he say , ' I shall not hurt you ' ; and he begin to praise her garden , of which he have hear the servant speak , and the bird and flower which she love , till the princess 's anger soften , and she answer him with gentle word .
Indeed , they soon become so friendly that she vow she would marry no one else , and confide to him that in three day her father would be off to the war , leave his sword in her room .
If any man could find it and bring it to him he would receive her hand a a reward .
At this point a cock crew , and the youth jump up hastily say : ` Of course I shall ride with the king to the war , and if I do not return , take your violin every evening to the seashore and play on it , so that the very sea-kobolds who live at the bottom of the ocean may hear it and come to you . '
Just a the princess have foretell , in three day the king set out for the war with a large following , and among them be the young prince , who have present himself at court a a young noble in search of adventure .
They have leave the city many mile behind them , when the king suddenly discover that he have forget his sword , and though all his attendant instantly offer theirs , he declare that he could fight with none but his own .
` The first man who bring it to me from my daughter 's room , ' cry he , ` shall not only have her to wife , but after my death shall reign in my stead . '
At this the Red Knight , the young prince , and several more turn their horse to ride as fast a the wind back to the palace .
But suddenly a good plan enter the prince 's head , and , let the others pass him , he take his precious parcel from his breast and wish himself a lion .
Then on he bound , utter such dreadful roar that the horse be frighten and grow unmanageable , and he easily outstrip them , and soon reach the gate of the palace .
Here he hastily change himself into a bee , and fly straight into the princess 's room , where he become a man again .
She show him where the sword hung conceal behind a curtain , and he take it down , say a he do so : ` Be sure not to forget what you have promise to do . '
The princess make no reply , but smile sweetly , and slip a golden ring from her finger she break it in two and hold half out silently to the prince , while the other half she put in her own pocket .
He kiss it , and run down the stair bear the sword with him .
Some way off he meet the Red Knight and the rest , and the Red Knight at first try to take the sword from him by force .
But a the youth prove too strong for him , he give it up , and resolve to wait for a good opportunity .
This soon come , for the day be hot and the prince be thirsty .
Perceiving a little stream that run into the sea , he turn aside , and , unbuckle the sword , flung himself on the ground for a long drink .
Unluckily , the mermaid happen at that moment to be float on the water not very far off , and know he be the boy who have be give her before he be bear .
So she float gently in to where he be lie , she seize him by the arm , and the wave close over them both .
Hardly have they disappear , when the Red Knight steal cautiously up , and could hardly believe his eye when he saw the king 's sword on the bank .
He wonder what have become of the youth , who an hour before have guard his treasure so fiercely ; but , after all , that be no affair of his !
So , fasten the sword to his belt , he carry it to the king .
The war be soon over , and the king return to his people , who welcome him with shout of joy .
But when the princess from her window saw that her betrothed be not among the attendant rid behind her father , her heart sank , for she know that some evil must have befall him , and she fear the Red Knight .
She have long ago learn how clever and how wicked he be , and something whisper to her that it be he who would gain the credit of have carry back the sword , and would claim her a his bride , though he have never even enter her chamber .
And she could do nothing ; for although the king love her , he never let her stand in the way of his plan .
The poor princess be only too right , and everything come to pass exactly a she have foreseen it .
The king tell her that the Red Knight have win her fairly , and that the wedding would take place next day , and there would be a great feast after it .
In those day feast be much long and more splendid than they be now ; and it be grow dark when the princess , tire out with all she have go through , steal up to her own room for a little quiet .
But the moon be shin so brightly over the sea that it seem to draw her towards it , and take her violin under her arm , she creep down to the shore .
` Listen !
listen !
say the mermaid to the prince , who be lie stretch on a bed of seaweed at the bottom of the sea .
` Listen !
that be your old love playing , for mermaid know everything that happen upon earth . ' '
I hear nothing , ' answer the youth , who do not look happy .
` Take me up high , where the sound can reach me . '
So the mermaid take him on her shoulder and bore him up midway to the surface .
` Can you hear now ? '
she ask .
` No , ' answer the prince , ' I hear nothing but the water rushing ; I must go high still . '
Then the mermaid carry him to the very top .
` You must surely be able to hear now ? '
say she .
` Nothing but the water , ' repeat the youth .
So she take him right to the land .
` At any rate you can hear now ? '
she say again .
` The water be still rush in my ear , ' answer he ; ` but wait a little , that will soon pass off . '
And a he speak he put his hand into his breast , and seize the hair wish himself a bee , and fly straight into the pocket of the princess .
The mermaid look in vain for him , and coat all night upon the sea ; but he never come back , and never more do he gladden her eye .
But the princess felt that something strange be about her , though she know not what , and return quickly to the palace , where the young man at once resume his own shape .
Oh , what joy fill her heart at the sight of him !
But there be no time to be lose , and she lead him right into the hall , where the king and his noble be still sit at the feast .
` Here be a man who boast that he can do wonderful trick , ' say she , ` well even than the Red Knight 's !
That can not be true , of course , but it might be well to give this impostor a lesson .
He pretend , for instance , that he can turn himself into a lion ; but that I do not believe .
I know that you have study the art of magic , ' she go on , turn to the Red Knight , ` so suppose you just show him how it be do , and bring shame upon him . '
Now the Red Knight have never open a book of magic in his life ; but he be accustom to think that he could do everything good than other people without any teaching at all .
So he turn and twist himself about , and bellow and make face ; but he do not become a lion for all that .
` Well , perhaps it be very difficult to change into a lion .
Make yourself a bear , ' say the princess .
But the Red Knight find it no easy to become a bear than a lion .
` Try a bee , ' suggest she . '
I have always read that anyone who can do magic at all can do that . '
And the old knight buzz and hum , but he remain a man and not a bee .
` Now it be your turn , ' say the princess to the youth .
` Let u see if you can change yourself into a lion . '
And in a moment such a fierce creature stand before them , that all the guest rush out of the hall , tread each other underfoot in their fright .
The lion sprang at the Red Knight , and would have tear him in piece have not the princess hold him back , and bid him to change himself into a man again .
And in a second a man take the place of the lion .
` Now become a bear , ' say she ; and a bear advanced panting and stretch out his arm to the Red Knight , who shrink behind the princess .
By this time some of the guest have regain their courage , and return as far a the door , think that if it be safe for the princess perhaps it be safe for them .
The king , who be braver than they , and felt it needful to set them a good example besides , have never leave his seat , and when at a new command of the princess the bear once more turned into a man , he be silent from astonishment , and a suspicion of the truth begin to dawn on him .
` Was it he who fetch the sword ? '
ask the king .
` Yes , it be , ' answer the princess ; and she tell him the whole story , and how she have break her gold ring and give him half of it .
And the prince take out his half of the ring , and the princess take out hers , and they fit exactly .
Next day the Red Knight be hang , a he richly deserve , and there be a new marriage feast for the prince and princess .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Pivi and Kabo When bird be men , and men be bird , Pivi and Kabo live in an island far away , call New Claledonia .
Pivi be a cheery little bird that chirp at sunset ; Kabo be an ugly black fowl that croak in the darkness .
One day Pivi and Kabo think that they would make sling , and practice slinging , a the people of the island still do .
So they go to a banyan tree , and strip the bark to make string for their sling , and next they repair to the river bank to find stone .
Kabo stand on the bank of the river , and Pivi go into the water .
The game be for Kabo to sling at Pivi , and for Pivi to dodge the stone , if he could .
For some time he dodge them cleverly , but at last a stone from Kabo 's sling hit poor Pivi on the leg and break it .
Down go Pivi into the stream , and float along it , till he float into a big hollow bamboo , which a woman use for wash her sweet potato .
` What be that in my bamboo ? '
say the woman .
And she blow in at one end , and blow little Pivi out at the other , like a pea from a pea-shooter .
` Oh ! '
cry the woman , ` what a state you be in !
What have you be do ? '
` It be Kabo who break my leg at the slinging game , ' say Pivi .
` Well , I be sorry for you , ' say the woman ; ` will you come with me , and do what I tell you ? ' '
I will ! '
say Pivi , for the woman be very kind and pretty .
She take Pivi into a shed where she keep her fruit lay him on a bed of mat , and make him as comfortable a she could , and attend to his broken leg without cut off the flesh round the bone , a these people usually do .
` You will be still , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
she say .
` If you hear a little noise you will pretend to be dead .
It be the Black Ant who will come and creep from your foot up to your head .
Say nothing , and keep quiet , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
` Certainly , kind lady , ' say Pivi , ' I will lie as still a can be . '
` Next will come the big Red Ant -- you know him ? '
` Yes , I know him , with his foot like a grasshopper 's . '
` He will walk over your body up to your head .
Then you must shake all your body .
Do you understand , Pivi ? '
` Yes , dear lady , I shall do just a you say . '
` Very good , ' say the woman , go out and shut the door .
Pivi lay still under his covering , then a tiny noise be hear , and the Black Ant begin to march over Pivi , who lay quite still .
Then come the big Red Ant skip along his body , and then Pivi shake himself all over .
He jump up quite well again , he run to the river , he look into the water and saw that he be change from a bird into a fine young man !
` Oh , lady , ' he cry , ` look at me now !
I be change into a man , and so handsome ! '
` Will you obey me again ? '
say the woman .
` Always ; whatever you command I will do it , ' say Pivi , politely .
` Then climb up that cocoa-nut tree , with your leg only , not use your hand , ' say the woman .
Now the native can run up cocoa-nut tree like squirrel , some use only one hand ; the girl can do that .
But few can climb without use their hand at all .
` At the top of the tree you will find two cocoa-nuts .
You must not throw them down , but carry them in your hand ; and you must descend a you go up , use your leg only . ' '
I shall try , at least , ' say Pivi .
And up he go , but it be very difficult , and down he come .
` Here be your cocoa-nuts , ' he say , present them to the woman .
` Now , Pivi , put them in the shed where you lay , and when the sun set to cool himself in the sea and rise again not so hot in the dawn you must go and take the nut . '
All day Pivi play about in the river , a the native do , throw fruit and silvery shower of water at each other .
When the sun set he go into the hut .
But a he draw near he hear sweet voice talk and laugh within .
` What be that ?
People chatter in the hut !
Perhaps they have take my cocoa-nuts , ' say Pivi to himself .
In he go , and there he find two pretty , laugh , tease girl .
He hunt for his cocoanut , but none be there .
Down he run to the river .
` Oh , lady , my nut have be steal ! '
he cry .
` Come with me , Pivi , and there will be nut for you , ' say the woman .
They go back to the hut , where the girl be laugh and playing .
` Nuts for you ? '
say the woman , ` there be two wife for you , Pivi , take them to your house . '
` Oh , good lady , ' cry Pivi , ` how kind you be ! '
So they be marry and very happy , when in come cross old Kabo .
` Is this Pivi ? '
say he .
` Yes , it be -- no , it be n't .
It be not the same Pivi -- but there be a kind of likeness .
Tell me , be you Pivi ? '
` Oh , yes ! '
say Pivi .
` But I be much well look , and there be my two wife , be they not beautiful ? '
` You be mock me , Pivi !
Your wife ?
How ?
Where do you get them ?
You , with wife ! '
Then Pivi tell Kabo about the kind woman , and all the wonderful thing that have happen to him .
` Well , well ! '
say Kabo , ` but I want to be handsome too , and to have pretty young wife . '
` But how can we manage that ? '
ask Pivi .
` Oh , we shall do all the same thing over again -- play at slinging , and , this time , you shall break my leg , Pivi ! '
` With all the pleasure in life , ' say Pivi , who be always ready to oblige .
So they go sling , and Pivi break Kabo 's leg , and Kabo fell into the river , and float into the bamboo , and the woman blow him out , just a before .
Then she pick up Kabo , and put him in the shed , and tell him what to do when the Black Ant come , and what to do when the Red Ant come .
But he do n't !
When the Black Ant come , he shake himself , and behold , he have a twisted leg , and a hump back , and be as black a the ant .
Then he run to the woman .
` Look , what a figure I be ! '
he say ; but she only tell him to climb the tree , a she have tell Pivi .
But Kabo climb with both hand and foot , and he throw down the nut , instead of carry them down , and he put them in the hut .
And when he go back for them there he find two horrid old black hag , wrangling , and scolding , and scratch !
So back he go to Pivi with his two beautiful wife , and Pivi be very sorry , but what could he do ?
Nothing , but sit and cry .
So , one day , Kabo come and ask Pivi to sail in his canoe to a place where he know of a great big shell-fish , enough to fee on for a week .
Pivi go , and deep in the clear water they saw a monstrous shell-fish , like an oyster , as big a a rock , with the shell wide open .
` We shall catch it , and dry it , and kipper it , ' say Pivi , ` and give a dinner to all our friend ! ' '
I shall dive for it , and break it off the rock , ' say Kabo , ` and then you must help me to drag it up into the canoe . '
There the shell-fish lay and gap , but Kabo , though he dive in , keep well out of the way of the beast .
Up he come , puff and blowing : ` Oh , Pivi , ' he cry , ' I can not move it .
Jump in and try yourself ! '
Pivi dive , with his spear , and the shell-fish open it shell wider yet , and suck , and Pivi disappear into it mouth , and the shell shut up with a snap !
Kabo laugh like a fiend , and then go home .
` Where be Pivi ? '
ask the two pretty girl .
Kabo pretend to cry , and tell how Pivi have be swallow .
` But dry your tear , my darling , ' say Kabo , ' I will be your husband , and my wife shall be your slave .
Everything be for the best , in the best of all possible world . '
` No , no ! '
cry the girl , ` we love Pivi .
We do not love anyone else .
We shall stay at home , and weep for Pivi ! '
` Wretched idiot ! '
cried Kabo ; ` Pivi be a scoundrel who break my leg , and knock me into the river . '
Then a little cough be hear at the door , and Kabo tremble , for he know it be the cough of Pivi !
` Ah , dear Pivi ! '
cry Kabo , rush to the door .
` What joy !
I be try to console your dear wife . '
Pivi say not one word .
He wave his hand , and five and twenty of his friend come troop down the hill .
They cut up Kabo into little piece .
Pivi turn round , and there be the good woman of the river .
` Pivi , ' she say , ` how do you get out of the living tomb into which Kabo send you ? ' '
I have my spear with me , ' say Pivi .
` It be quite dry inside the shell , and I work away at the fish with my spear , till he saw reason to open his shell , and out I come . '
Then the good woman laugh ; and Pivi and his two wife live happy ever afterwards .
-LSB- Moncelon .
Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie .
Series iii .
vol .
ix . , pp . 613-365 . -RSB-
The Elf Maiden Once upon a time two young men live in a small village fell in love with the same girl .
During the winter , it be all night except for an hour or so about noon , when the darkness seem a little less dark , and then they use to see which of them could tempt her out for a sleigh ride with the Northern Lights flash above them , or which could persuade her to come to a dance in some neighbouring barn .
But when the spring begin , and the light grow longer , the heart of the villager leap at the sight of the sun , and a day be fix for the boat to be bring out , and the great net to be spread in the bay of some island that lay a few mile to the north .
Everybody go on this expedition , and the two young men and the girl go with them .
They all sail merrily across the sea chatter like a flock of magpie , or sing their favourite song .
And when they reach the shore , what an unpacking there be !
For this be a noted fishing ground , and here they would live , in little wooden hut , till autumn and bad weather come round again .
The maiden and the two young men happen to share the same hut with some friend , and fish daily from the same boat .
And a time go on , one of the youth remark that the girl take less notice of him than she do of his companion .
At first he try to think that he be dream , and for a long while he keep his eye shut very tight to what he do not want to see , but in spite of his effort , the truth manage to wriggle through , and then the young man give up try to deceive himself , and set about find some way to get the good of his rival .
The plan that he hit upon could not be carry out for some month ; but the long the young man thought of it , the more pleased he be with it , so he make no sign of his feeling , and wait patiently till the moment come .
This be the very day that they be all go to leave the island , and sail back to the mainland for the winter .
In the bustle and hurry of departure , the cunning fisherman contrive that their boat should be the last to put off , and when everything be ready , and the sail about to be set , he suddenly call out : ` Oh , dear , what shall I do !
I have leave my best knife behind in the hut .
Run , like a good fellow , and get it for me , while I raise the anchor and loosen the tiller . '
Not think any harm , the youth jump back on shore and make his way up the steep hank .
At the door of the hut he stop and look back , then start and gaze in horror .
The head of the boat stand out to sea , and he be leave alone on the island .
Yes , there be no doubt of it -- he be quite alone ; and he have nothing to help him except the knife which his comrade have purposely drop on the ledge of the window .
For some minute he be too stun by the treachery of his friend to think about anything at all , but after a while he shake himself awake , and determine that he would manage to keep alive somehow , if it be only to revenge himself .
So he put the knife in his pocket and go off to a part of the island which be not so bare a the rest , and have a small grove of tree .
From one of these he cut himself a bow , which he string with a piece of cord that have be leave lie about the hut .
When this be ready the young man run down to the shore and shot one or two sea-birds , which he pluck and cook for supper .
In this way the month slip by , and Christmas come round again .
The evening before , the youth go down to the rock and into the copse , collect all the drift wood the sea have wash up or the gale have blow down , and he pile it up in a great stack outside the door , so that he might not have to fetch any all the next day .
As soon a his task be do , he pause and look out towards the mainland , thinking of Christmas Eve last year , and the merry dance they have have .
The night be still and cold , and by the help of the Northern Lights he could almost sea across to the opposite coast , when , suddenly , he notice a boat , which seem steer straight for the island .
At first he could hardly stand for joy , the chance of speak to another man be so delightful ; but a the boat draw near there be something , he could not tell what , that be different from the boat which he have be use to all his life , and when it touch the shore he saw that the people that fill it be being of another world than ours .
Then he hastily step behind the wood stack , and wait for what might happen next .
The strange folk one by one jumped on to the rock , each bear a load of something that they want .
Among the woman he remark two young girl , more beautiful and well dress than any of the rest , carry between them two great basket full of provision .
The young man peep out cautiously to see what all this crowd could be do inside the tiny hut , but in a moment he draw back again , a the girl return , and look about a if they want to find out what sort of a place the island be .
Their sharp eye soon discover the form of a man crouch behind the bundle of stick , and at first they felt a little frightened , and start a if they would run away .
But the youth remain so still , that they take courage and laugh gaily to each other .
` What a strange creature , let u try what he be make of , ' say one , and she stoop down and give him a pinch .
Now the young man have a pin sticking in the sleeve of his jacket , and the moment the girl 's hand touch him she prick it so sharply that the blood come .
The girl scream so loudly that the people all run out of their hut to see what be the matter .
But directly they catch sight of the man they turn and flee in the other direction , and pick up the good they have bring with them scamper as fast a they could down to the shore .
In an instant , boat , people , and good have vanish completely .
In their hurry they have , however , forget two thing : a bundle of key which lay on the table , and the girl whom the pin have prick , and who now stand pale and helpless beside the wood stack .
` You will have to make me your wife , ' she say at last , ` for you have draw my blood , and I belong to you . '
` Why not ?
I be quite willing , ' answer he .
` But how do you suppose we can manage to live till summer come round again ? '
` Do not be anxious about that , ' say the girl ; ` if you will only marry me all will be well .
I be very rich , and all my family be rich also . '
Then the young man give her his promise to make her his wife , and the girl fulfil her part of the bargain , and food be plentiful on the island all through the long winter month , though he never know how it get there .
And by-and-by it be spring once more , and time for the fisher-folk to sail from the mainland .
` Where be we to go now ? '
ask the girl , one day , when the sun seem brighter and the wind soft than usual . '
I do not care where I go , ' answer the young man ; ` what do you think ? '
The girl reply that she would like to go somewhere right at the other end of the island , and build a house , far away from the hut of the fishing-folk .
And he consent , and that very day they set off in search of a sheltered spot on the bank of a stream , so that it would be easy to get water .
In a tiny bay , on the opposite side of the island they find the very thing , which seem to have be make on purpose for them ; and a they be tire with their long walk , they lay themselves down on a bank of moss among some birch and prepare to have a good night 's rest , so a to be fresh for work next day .
But before she go to sleep the girl turn to her husband , and say : ` If in your dream you fancy that you hear strange noise , be sure you do not stir , or get up to see what it be . '
` Oh , it be not likely we shall hear any noise in such a quiet place , ' answer he , and fell sound asleep .
Suddenly he be awaken by a great clatter about his ear , a if all the workman in the world be saw and hammer and build close to him .
He be just go to spring up and go to see what it mean , when he luckily remember his wife 's word and lay still .
But the time till morning seem very long , and with the first ray of sun they both rise , and push aside the branch of the birch tree .
There , in the very place they have choose , stand a beautiful house -- door and window , and everything all complete !
` Now you must fix on a spot for your cow-stalls , ' say the girl , when they have breakfast off wild cherry ; ` and take care it be the proper size , neither too large nor too small . '
And the husband do a he be bid , though he wonder what use a cow-house could be , a they have no cow to put in it .
But a he be a little afraid of his wife , who know so much more than he , he ask no question .
This night also he be awaken by the same sound a before , and in the morning they find , near the stream , the most beautiful cow-house that ever be see , with stall and milk-pails and stool all complete , indeed , everything that a cow-house could possibly want , except the cow .
Then the girl bid him measure out the ground for a storehouse , and this , she say , might be as large a he please ; and when the storehouse be ready she propose that they should set off to pay her parent a visit .
The old people welcome them heartily , and summon their neighbour , for many mile round , to a great feast in their honour .
In fact , for several week there be no work do on the farm at all ; and at length the young man and his wife grow tired of so much play , and declare that they must return to their own home .
But , before they start on the journey , the wife whisper to her husband : ` Take care to jump over the threshold as quick a you can , or it will be the bad for you . '
The young man listen to her word , and sprang over the threshold like an arrow from a bow ; and it be well he do , for , no sooner be he on the other side , than his father-in-law throw a great hammer at him , which would have break both his leg , if it have only touch them .
When they have go some distance on the road home , the girl turn to her husband and say : 'Till you step inside the house , be sure you do not look back , whatever you may hear or see . '
And the husband promise , and for a while all be still ; and he think no more about the matter till he notice at last that the nearer he draw to the house the louder grow the noise of the trampling of foot behind him .
As he lay his hand upon the door he think he be safe , and turn to look .
There , sure enough , be a vast herd of cattle , which have be send after him by his father-in-law when he find that his daughter have be cleverer than he .
Half of the herd be already through the fence and crop the grass on the bank of the stream , but half still remain outside and fade into nothing , even a he watch them .
However , enough cattle be leave to make the young man rich , and he and his wife live happily together , except that every now and then the girl vanish from his sight , and never tell him where she have be .
For a long time he keep silence about it ; but one day , when he have be complain of her absence , she say to him : ` Dear husband , I be bound to go , even against my will , and there be only one way to stop me .
Drive a nail into the threshold , and then I can never pass in or out . '
And so he do .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How Some Wild Animals Became Tame Ones Once upon a time there live a miller who be so rich that , when he be go to be marry , he ask to the feast not only his own friend but also the wild animal who dwell in the hill and wood round about .
The chief of the bear , the wolf , the fox , the horse , the cow , the goat , the sheep , and the reindeer , all receive invitation ; and a they be not accustom to wedding they be greatly pleased and flatter , and send back message in the polite language that they would certainly be there .
The first to start on the morning of the wedding-day be the bear , who always like to be punctual ; and , besides , he have a long way to go , and his hair , be so thick and rough , need a good brushing before it be fit to be see at a party .
However , he take care to awaken very early , and set off down the road with a light heart .
Before he have walk very far he meet a boy who come whistle along , hit at the top of the flower with a stick .
` Where be you go ? '
say he , look at the bear in surprise , for he be an old acquaintance , and not generally so smart .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answer the bear carelessly .
` Of course , I would much rather stay at home , but the miller be so anxious I should be there that I really could not refuse . '
` Do n't go , do n't go ! '
cry the boy .
` If you do you will never come back !
You have get the most beautiful skin in the world -- just the kind that everyone be want , and they will be sure to kill you and strip you of it . ' '
I have not think of that , ' say the bear , whose face turn white , only nobody could see it .
` If you be certain that they would be so wicked -- but perhaps you be jealous because nobody have invite you ? '
` Oh , nonsense ! '
reply the boy angrily , ` do a you see .
It be your skin , and not mine ; I do n't care what become of it ! '
And he walk quickly on with his head in the air .
The bear wait until he be out of sight , and then follow him slowly , for he felt in his heart that the boy 's advice be good , though he be too proud to say so .
The boy soon grow tire of walk along the road , and turn off into the wood , where there be bush he could jump and stream he could wade ; but he have not go far before he meet the wolf .
` Where be you go ? '
ask he , for it be not the first time he have see him .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answer the wolf , a the bear have do before him .
` It be rather tiresome , of course -- wedding be always so stupid ; but still one must be good-natured ! '
` Do n't go ! '
say the boy again .
` Your skin be so thick and warm , and winter be not far off now .
They will kill you , and strip it from you . '
The wolf 's jaw drop in astonishment and terror .
` Do you really think that would happen ? '
he gasp .
` Yes , to be sure , I do , ' answer the boy .
` But it be your affair , not mine .
So good-morning , ' and on he go .
The wolf stand still for a few minute , for he be tremble all over , and then creep quietly back to his cave .
Next the boy meet the fox , whose lovely coat of silvery grey be shin in the sun .
` You look very fine ! '
say the boy , stop to admire him , ` be you go to the miller 's wed too ? '
` Yes , ' answer the fox ; ` it be a long journey to take for such a thing a that , but you know what the miller 's friend be like -- so dull and heavy !
It be only kind to go and amuse them a little . '
` You poor fellow , ' say the boy pityingly .
` Take my advice and stay at home .
If you once enter the miller 's gate his dog will tear you in piece . '
` Ah , well , such thing have occur , I know , ' reply the fox gravely .
And without say any more he trot off the way he have come .
His tail have scarcely disappear , when a great noise of crash branch be hear , and up bound the horse , his black skin glisten like satin .
` Good-morning , ' he call to the boy a he gallop past , ' I ca n't wait to talk to you now .
I have promise the miller to be present at his wedding-feast , and they wo n't sit down till I come . '
` Stop !
stop ! '
cry the boy after him , and there be something in his voice that make the horse pull up .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he .
` You do n't know what you be do , ' say the boy .
` If once you go there you will never gallop through these wood any more .
You be strong than many men , but they will catch you and put rope round you , and you will have to work and to serve them all the day of your life . '
The horse throw back his head at these word , and laugh scornfully .
` Yes , I be strong than many men , ' answer he , ` and all the rope in the world would not hold me .
Let them bind me a fast a they will , I can always break loose , and return to the forest and freedom . '
And with this proud speech he give a whisk of his long tail , and gallop away faster than before .
But when he reach the miller 's house everything happen a the boy have say .
While he be look at the guest and think how much handsomer and strong he be than any of them , a rope be suddenly fling over his head , and he be throw down and a bit thrust between his teeth .
Then , in spite of his struggle , he be drag to a stable , and shut up for several day without any food , till his spirit be break and his coat have lose it gloss .
After that he be harness to a plough , and have plenty of time to remember all he have lose through not listen to the counsel of the boy .
When the horse have turn a deaf ear to his word the boy wander idly along , sometimes gather wild strawberry from a bank , and sometimes pluck wild cherry from a tree , till he reach a clearing in the middle of the forest .
Crossing this open space be a beautiful milk-white cow with a wreath of flower round her neck .
` Good-morning , ' she say pleasantly , a she come up to the place where the boy be stand .
` Good-morning , ' he return .
` Where be you go in such a hurry ? '
` To the miller 's wedding ; I be rather late already , for the wreath take such a long time to make , so I ca n't stop . '
` Do n't go , ' say the boy earnestly ; ' when once they have taste your milk they will never let you leave them , and you will have to serve them all the day of your life . '
` Oh , nonsense ; what do you know about it ? '
answer the cow , who always think she be wise than other people .
` Why , I can run twice as fast a any of them !
I should like to see anybody try to keep me against my will . '
And , without even a polite bow , she go on her way , feel very much offend .
But everything turn out just a the boy have say .
The company have all heard of the fame of the cow 's milk , and persuade her to give them some , and then her doom be seal .
A crowd gather round her , and hold her horn so that she could not use them , and , like the horse , she be shut in the stable , and only let out in the morning , when a long rope be tie round her head , and she be fasten to a stake in a grassy meadow .
And so it happen to the goat and to the sheep .
Last of all come the reindeer , look a he always do , a if some serious business be on hand .
` Where be you go ? '
ask the boy , who by this time be tire of wild cherry , and be think of his dinner . '
I be invite to the wedding , ' answer the reindeer , ` and the miller have beg me on no account to fail him . ' '
O fool ! '
cry the boy , ` have you no sense at all ?
Do n't you know that when you get there they will hold you fast , for neither beast nor bird be a strong or as swift a you ? '
` That be exactly why I be quite safe , ' reply the reindeer . '
I be so strong that no one can bind me , and so swift that not even an arrow can catch me .
So , goodbye for the present , you will soon see me back . '
But none of the animal that go to the miller 's wedding ever come back .
And because they be self-willed and conceited , and would not listen to good advice , they and their child have be the servant of men to this very day .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Fortune and the Wood-Cutter Several hundred of year ago there live in a forest a wood-cutter and his wife and child .
He be very poor , have only his axe to depend upon , and two mule to carry the wood he cut to the neighbouring town ; but he work hard , and be always out of bed by five o'clock , summer and winter .
This go on for twenty year , and though his son be now grow up , and go with their father to the forest , everything seem to go against them , and they remain as poor a ever .
In the end the wood-cutter lose heart , and say to himself : ` What be the good of work like this if I never be a penny the rich at the end ?
I shall go to the forest no more !
And perhaps , if I take to my bed , and do not run after Fortune , one day she may come to me . '
So the next morning he do not get up , and when six o'clock struck , his wife , who have be clean the house , go to see what be the matter .
` Are you ill ? '
she ask wonderingly , surprise at not find him dressed .
` The cock have crow ever so often .
It be high time for you to get up . '
` Why should I get up ? '
ask the man , without move .
` Why ?
to go to the forest , of course . '
` Yes ; and when I have toil all day I hardly earn enough to give u one meal . '
` But what can we do , my poor husband ? '
say she .
` It be just a trick of Fortune 's , who would never smile upon u . '
` Well , I have have my fill of Fortune 's trick , ' cry he .
` If she want me she can find me here .
But I have do with the wood for ever . '
` My dear husband , grief have drive you mad !
Do you think Fortune will come to anybody who do not go after her ?
Dress yourself , and saddle the mule , and begin your work .
Do you know that there be not a morsel of bread in the house ? ' '
I do n't care if there be n't , and I be not go to the forest .
It be no use your talk ; nothing will make me change my mind . '
The distracted wife beg and implore in vain ; her husband persist in stay in bed , and at last , in despair , she leave him and go back to her work .
An hour or two late a man from the near village knock at her door , and when she open it , he say to her : ` Good-morning , mother .
I have get a job to do , and I want to know if your husband will lend me your mule , a I see he be not use them , and can lend me a hand himself ? '
` He be upstairs ; you have good ask him , ' answer the woman .
And the man go up , and repeat his request . '
I be sorry , neighbour , but I have swear not to leave my bed , and nothing will make me break my vow . '
` Well , then , will you lend me your two mule ?
I will pay you something for them . '
` Certainly , neighbour .
Take them and welcome . '
So the man leave the house , and lead the mule from the stable , place two sack on their back , and drive them to a field where he have find a hidden treasure .
He fill the sack with the money , though he know perfectly well that it belong to the sultan , and be drive them quietly home again , when he saw two soldier come along the road .
Now the man be aware that if he be catch he would be condemn to death , so he flee back into the forest .
The mule , leave to themselves , take the path that lead to their master 's stable .
The wood-cutter 's wife be look out of the window when the mule draw up before the door , so heavily lade that they almost sink under their burden .
She lose no time in call her husband , who be still lie in bed .
` Quick !
quick !
get up as fast a you can .
Our two mule have return with sack on their back , so heavily laden with something or other that the poor beast can hardly stand up . '
` Wife , I have tell you a dozen time already that I be not go to get up .
Why ca n't you leave me in peace ? '
As she find she could get no help from her husband the woman take a large knife and cut the cord which bind the sack on to the animal ' back .
They fell at once to the ground , and out pour a rain of gold piece , till the little court-yard shone like the sun . '
A treasure ! '
gasp the woman , as soon a she could speak from surprise . '
A treasure ! '
And she run off to tell her husband .
` Get up !
get up ! '
she cry .
` You be quite right not to go to the forest , and to await Fortune in your bed ; she have come at last !
Our mule have return home laden with all the gold in the world , and it be now lie in the court .
No one in the whole country can be as rich a we be ! '
In an instant the wood-cutter be on his foot , and run to the court , where he pause dazzle by the glitter of the coin which lay around him .
` You see , my dear wife , that I be right , ' he say at last .
` Fortune be so capricious , you can never count on her .
Run after her , and she be sure to fly from you ; stay still , and she be sure to come . '
-LSB- Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure . -RSB-
The Enchanted Head Once upon a time an old woman live in a small cottage near the sea with her two daughter .
They be very poor , and the girl seldom leave the house , a they work all day long make veil for the lady to wear over their face , and every morning , when the veil be finish , the other take them over the bridge and sell them in the city .
Then she buy the food that they need for the day , and return home to do her share of veil-making .
One morning the old woman rise even early than usual , and set off for the city with her ware .
She be just cross the bridge when , suddenly , she knock up against a human head , which she have never see there before .
The woman start back in horror ; but what be her surprise when the head speak , exactly a if it have a body join on to it .
` Take me with you , good mother ! '
it say imploringly ; ` take me with you back to your house . '
At the sound of these word the poor woman nearly go mad with terror .
Have that horrible thing always at home ?
Never !
never !
And she turn and run back as fast a she could , not know that the head be jump , dance , and roll after her .
But when she reach her own door it bound in before her , and stop in front of the fire , beg and pray to be allow to stay .
All that day there be no food in the house , for the veil have not be sell , and they have no money to buy anything with .
So they all sit silent at their work , inwardly curse the head which be the cause of their misfortune .
When even come , and there be no sign of supper , the head speak , for the first time that day : ` Good mother , do no one ever eat here ?
During all the hour I have spend in your house not a creature have touch anything . '
` No , ' answer the old woman , ` we be not eat anything . '
` And why not , good mother ? '
` Because we have no money to buy any food . '
` Is it your custom never to eat ? '
` No , for every morning I go into the city to sell my veil , and with the few shilling I get for them I buy all we want .
To-day I do not cross the bridge , so of course I have nothing for food . '
` Then I be the cause of your have go hungry all day ? '
ask the head .
` Yes , you be , ' answer the old woman .
` Well , then , I will give you money and plenty of it , if you will only do a I tell you .
In an hour , a the clock strike twelve , you must be on the bridge at the place where you meet me .
When you get there call out `` Ahmed , '' three time , as loud a you can .
Then a negro will appear , and you must say to him : `` The head , your master , desire you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . '' '
` Very well , my lord , ' say the old woman , ' I will set off at once for the bridge . '
And wrap her veil round her she go out .
Midnight be strike a she reach the spot where she have meet the head so many hour before .
` Ahmed !
Ahmed !
Ahmed ! '
cry she , and immediately a huge negro , as tall a a giant , stand on the bridge before her .
` What do you want ? '
ask he .
` The head , your master , desire you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . ' '
I will be back in a moment , good mother , ' say he .
And three minute later he place a purse full of sequin in the old woman 's hand .
No one can imagine the joy of the whole family at the sight of all this wealth .
The tiny , tumble-down cottage be rebuild , the girl have new dress , and their mother cease sell veil .
It be such a new thing to them to have money to spend , that they be not as careful a they might have be , and by-and-by there be not a single coin leave in the purse .
When this happen their heart sank within them , and their face fell .
` Have you spend your fortune ? '
ask the head from it corner , when it saw how sad they look .
` Well , then , go at midnight , good mother , to the bridge , and call out `` Mahomet ! ''
three time , as loud a you can .
A negro will appear in answer , and you must tell him to open the trunk , and to give you the red purse which he will find there . '
The old woman do not need twice tell , but set off at once for the bridge .
` Mahomet !
Mahomet !
Mahomet ! '
cry she , with all her might ; and in an instant a negro , still large than the last , stand before her .
` What do you want ? '
ask he .
` The head , your master , bid you open the trunk , and to give me the red purse which you will find in it . '
` Very well , good mother , I will do so , ' answer the negro , and , the moment after he have vanish , he reappear with the purse in his hand .
This time the money seem so endless that the old woman build herself a new house , and fill it with the most beautiful thing that be to be find in the shop .
Her daughter be always wrap in veil that look a if they be weave out of sunbeam , and their dress shone with precious stone .
The neighbour wonder where all this sudden wealth have spring from , but nobody know about the head .
` Good mother , ' say the head , one day , ` this morning you be to go to the city and ask the sultan to give me his daughter for my bride . '
` Do what ? '
ask the old woman in amazement .
` How can I tell the sultan that a head without a body wish to become his son-in-law ?
They will think that I be mad , and I shall be hoot from the palace and stone by the child . '
` Do a I bid you , ' reply the head ; ` it be my will . '
The old woman be afraid to say anything more , and , put on her richest clothes , start for the palace .
The sultan grant her an audience at once , and , in a trembling voice , she make her request .
` Are you mad , old woman ? '
say the sultan , star at her .
` The wooer be powerful , O Sultan , and nothing be impossible to him . '
` Is that true ? '
` It be , O Sultan ; I swear it , ' answer she .
` Then let him show his power by do three thing , and I will give him my daughter . '
` Command , O gracious prince , ' say she .
` Do you see that hill in front of the palace ? '
ask the sultan . '
I see it , ' answer she .
` Well , in forty day the man who have send you must make that hill vanish , and plant a beautiful garden in it place .
That be the first thing .
Now go , and tell him what I say . '
So the old woman return and tell the head the sultan 's first condition .
` It be well , ' he reply ; and say no more about it .
For thirty-nine day the head remain in it favourite corner .
The old woman think that the task set before be beyond his power , and that no more would be hear about the sultan 's daughter .
But on the thirty-ninth evening after her visit to the palace , the head suddenly speak .
` Good mother , ' he say , ` you must go to-night to the bridge , and when you be there cry `` Ali !
Ali !
Ali ! ''
as loud a you can .
A negro will appear before you , and you will tell him that he be to level the hill , and to make , in it place , the most beautiful garden that ever be see . ' '
I will go at once , ' answer she .
It do not take her long to reach the bridge which lead to the city , and she take up her position on the spot where she have first see the head , and call loudly ` Ali !
Ali !
Ali . '
In an instant a negro appear before her , of such a huge size that the old woman be half frightened ; but his voice be mild and gentle a he say : ` What be it that you want ? '
` Your master bid you level the hill that stand in front of the sultan 's palace and in it place to make the most beautiful garden in the world . '
` Tell my master he shall be obey , ' reply Ali ; ` it shall be do this moment . '
And the old woman go home and give Ali 's message to the head .
Meanwhile the sultan be in his palace wait till the fortieth day should dawn , and wonder that not one spadeful of earth should have be dig out of the hill .
` If that old woman have be play me a trick , ' think he , ' I will hang her !
And I will put up a gallows to-morrow on the hill itself . '
But when to-morrow come there be no hill , and when the sultan open his eye he could not imagine why the room be so much light than usual , and what be the reason of the sweet smell of flower that fill the air .
` Can there be a fire ? '
he say to himself ; ` the sun never come in at this window before .
I must get up and see . '
So he rise and look out , and underneath him flower from every part of the world be bloom , and creeper of every colour hung in chain from tree to tree .
Then he remember .
` Certainly that old woman 's son be a clever magician ! '
cry he ; ' I never meet anyone as clever a that .
What shall I give him to do next ?
Let me think .
Ah !
I know . '
And he send for the old woman , who by the order of the head , be wait below .
` Your son have carry out my wish very nicely , ' he say .
` The garden be large and good than that of any other king .
But when I walk across it I shall need some place to rest on the other side .
In forty day he must build me a palace , in which every room shall be fill with different furniture from a different country , and each more magnificent than any room that ever be see . '
And have say this he turn round and go away .
` Oh !
he will never be able to do that , ' think she ; ` it be much more difficult than the hill . '
And she walk home slowly , with her head bent .
` Well , what be I to do next ? '
ask the head cheerfully .
And the old woman tell her story .
` Dear me !
be that all ?
why it be child 's play , ' answer the head ; and trouble no more about the palace for thirty-nine day .
Then he tell the old woman to go to the bridge and call for Hassan .
` What do you want , old woman ? '
ask Hassan , when he appear , for he be not as polite a the others have be .
` Your master command you to build the most magnificent palace that ever be see , ' reply she ; ` and you be to place it on the border of the new garden . '
` He shall be obey , ' answer Hassan .
And when the sultan wake he saw , in the distance , a palace build of soft blue marble , rest on slender pillar of pure gold .
` That old woman 's son be certainly all-powerful , ' cry he ; ` what shall I bid him do now ? '
And after think some time he send for the old woman , who be expect the summons .
` The garden be wonderful , and the palace the fine in the world , ' say he , ` so fine , that my servant would cut but a sorry figure in it .
Let your son fill it with forty slave whose beauty shall be unequalled , all exactly like each other , and of the same height . '
This time the king thought he have invent something totally impossible , and be quite pleased with himself for his cleverness .
Thirty-nine day pass , and at midnight on the night of the last the old woman be stand on the bridge .
` Bekir !
Bekir !
Bekir ! '
cry she .
And a negro appear , and inquire what she want .
` The head , your master , bid you find forty slave of unequalled beauty , and of the same height , and place them in the sultan 's palace on the other side of the garden . '
And when , on the morning of the fortieth day , the sultan go to the blue palace , and be receive by the forty slave , he nearly lose his wit from surprise . '
I will assuredly give my daughter to the old woman 's son , ' think he .
` If I be to search all the world through I could never find a more powerful son-in-law . '
And when the old woman enter his presence he inform her that he be ready to fulfil his promise , and she be to bid her son appear at the palace without delay .
This command do not at all please the old woman , though , of course , she make no objection to the sultan .
` All have go well so far , ' she grumble , when she tell her story to the head , ' but what do you suppose the sultan will say , when he see his daughter 's husband ? '
` Never mind what he say !
Put me on a silver dish and carry me to the palace . '
So it be do , though the old woman 's heart beat a she lay down the dish with the head upon it .
At the sight before him the king fly into a violent rage . '
I will never marry my daughter to such a monster , ' he cry .
But the princess place her head gently on his arm .
` You have give your word , my father , and you can not break it , ' say she .
` But , my child , it be impossible for you to marry such a be , ' exclaim the sultan .
` Yes , I will marry him .
He have a beautiful head , and I love him already . '
So the marriage be celebrate , and great feast be hold in the palace , though the people weep tear to think of the sad fate of their beloved princess .
But when the merry-making be do , and the young couple be alone , the head suddenly disappear , or , rather , a body be add to it , and one of the handsome young men that ever be see stood before the princess . '
A wicked fairy enchant me at my birth , ' he say , ` and for the rest of the world I must always be a head only .
But for you , and you only , I be a man like other men . '
` And that be all I care about , ' say the princess .
-LSB- Traditions populaires de toutes les nation -LRB- Asie Mineure -RRB- -RSB- .
The Sister of the Sun A long time ago there live a young prince whose favourite playfellow be the son of the gardener who live in the ground of the palace .
The king would have prefer his choose a friend from the page who be bring up at court ; but the prince would have nothing to say to them , and a he be a spoilt child , and allow his way in all thing , and the gardener 's boy be quiet and well-behaved , he be suffer to be in the palace , morning , noon , and night .
The game the child love the best be a match at archery , for the king have give them two bow exactly alike , and they would spend whole day in try to see which could shoot the high .
This be always very dangerous , and it be a great wonder they do not put their eye out ; but somehow or other they manage to escape .
One morning , when the prince have do his lesson , he run out to call his friend , and they both hurry off to the lawn which be their usual playground .
They take their bow out of the little hut where their toy be keep , and begin to see which could shoot the high .
At last they happen to let fly their arrow both together , and when they fell to earth again the tail feather of a golden hen be find stick in one .
Now the question begin to arise whose be the lucky arrow , for they be both alike , and look as closely a you would you could see no difference between them .
The prince declare that the arrow be his , and the gardener 's boy be quite sure it be HIS -- and on this occasion he be perfectly right ; but , a they could not decide the matter , they go straight to the king .
When the king have hear the story , he decide that the feather belong to his son ; but the other boy would not listen to this and claim the feather for himself .
At length the king 's patience give way , and he say angrily : ` Very well ; if you be so sure that the feather be yours , yours it shall be ; only you will have to seek till you find a golden hen with a feather miss from her tail .
And if you fail to find her your head will be the forfeit . '
The boy have need of all his courage to listen silently to the king 's word .
He have no idea where the golden hen might be , or even , if he discover that , how he be to get to her .
But there be nothing for it but to do the king 's bidding , and he felt that the sooner he leave the palace the good .
So he go home and put some food into a bag , and then set forth , hop that some accident might show him which path to take .
After walk for several hour he meet a fox , who seem inclined to be friendly , and the boy be so glad to have anyone to talk to that he sit down and enter into conversation .
` Where be you go ? '
ask the fox . '
I have get to find a golden hen who have lose a feather out of her tail , ' answer the boy ; ` but I do n't know where she live or how I shall catch her ! '
` Oh , I can show you the way ! '
say the fox , who be really very good-natured .
` Far towards the east , in that direction , live a beautiful maiden who be call `` The Sister of the Sun . ''
She have three golden hen in her house .
Perhaps the feather belong to one of them . '
The boy be delight at this news , and they walk on all day together , the fox in front , and the boy behind .
When even come they lay down to sleep , and put the knapsack under their head for a pillow .
Suddenly , about midnight , the fox give a low whine , and draw near to his bedfellow .
` Cousin , ' he whisper very low , ` there be someone come who will take the knapsack away from me .
Look over there ! '
And the boy , peep through the bush , saw a man .
` Oh , I do n't think he will rob u ! '
say the boy ; and when the man draw near , he tell them his story , which so much interested the stranger that he ask leave to travel with them , a he might be of some use .
So when the sun rise they set out again , the fox in front a before , the man and boy following .
After some hour they reach the castle of the Sister of the Sun , who keep the golden hen among her treasure .
They halt before the gate and take counsel a to which of them should go in and see the lady herself . '
I think it would be best for me to enter and steal the hen , ' say the fox ; but this do not please the boy at all .
` No , it be my business , so it be right that I should go , ' answer he .
` You will find it a very difficult matter to get hold of the hen , ' reply the fox .
` Oh , nothing be likely to happen to me , ' return the boy .
` Well , go then , ' say the fox , ` but be careful not to make any mistake .
Steal only the hen which have the feather miss from her tail , and leave the others alone . '
The man listen , but do not interfere , and the boy enter the court of the palace .
He soon spy the three hen strut proudly about , though they be really anxiously wonder if there be not some grain lie on the ground that they might be glad to eat .
And a the last one pass by him , he saw she have one feather miss from her tail .
At this sight the youth dart forward and seize the hen by the neck so that she could not struggle .
Then , tuck her comfortably under his arm , he make straight for the gate .
Unluckily , just a he be about to go through it he look back and catch a glimpse of wonderful splendour from an open door of the palace .
` After all , there be no hurry , ' he say to himself ; ' I may as well see something now I AM here , ' and turn back , forget all about the hen , which escape from under his arm , and run to join her sister .
He be so much fascinate by the sight of all the beautiful thing which peep through the door that he scarcely notice that he have lose the prize he have win ; and he do not remember there be such a thing a a hen in the world when he behold the Sister of the Sun sleeping on a bed before him .
For some time he stand star ; then he come to himself with a start , and feeling that he have no business there , softly steal away , and be fortunate enough to recapture the hen , which he take with him to the gate .
On the threshold he stop again .
` Why should I not look at the Sister of the Sun ? '
he think to himself ; ` she be asleep , and will never know . '
And he turn back for the second time and enter the chamber , while the hen wriggle herself free a before .
When he have gaze his fill he go out into the courtyard and pick up his hen who be seek for corn .
As he draw near the gate he pause .
` Why do I not give her a kiss ? '
he say to himself ; ' I shall never kiss any woman so beautiful . '
And he wring his hand with regret , so that the hen fell to the ground and run away .
` But I can do it still ! '
he cry with delight , and he rush back to the chamber and kiss the sleep maiden on the forehead .
But , ala !
when he come out again he find that the hen have grow so shy that she would not let him come near her .
And , bad than that , her sister begin to cluck so loud that the Sister of the Sun be awaken by the noise .
She jump up in haste from her bed , and go to the door she say to the boy : ` You shall never , never , have my hen till you bring me back my sister who be carry off by a giant to his castle , which be a long way off . '
Slowly and sadly the youth leave the palace and tell his story to his friend , who be wait outside the gate , how he have actually hold the hen three time in his arm and have lose her . '
I know that we should not get off so easily , ' say the fox , shake his head ; ` but there be no more time to waste .
Let u set off at once in search of the sister .
Luckily , I know the way . '
They walk on for many day , till at length the fox , who , a usual , be go first , stop suddenly .
` The giant 's castle be not far now , ' he say , ` but when we reach it you two must remain outside while I go and fetch the princess .
Directly I bring her out you must both catch hold of her tight , and get away as fast a you can ; while I return to the castle and talk to the giant -- for there be many of them -- so that they may not notice the escape of the princess . '
A few minute later they arrive at the castle , and the fox , who have often be there before , slip in without difficulty .
There be several giant , both young and old , in the hall , and they be all dance round the princess .
As soon a they saw the fox they cry out : ` Come and dance too , old fox ; it be a long time since we have see you . '
So the fox stand up , and do his step with the best of them ; but after a while he stop and say : ' I know a charming new dance that I should like to show you ; but it can only be do by two people .
If the princess will honour me for a few minute , you will soon see how it be do . '
` Ah , that be delightful ; we want something new , ' answer they , and place the princess between the outstretched arm of the fox .
In one instant he have knock over the great stand of light that light the hall , and in the darkness have bear the princess to the gate .
His comrade seize hold of her , a they have be bid , and the fox be back again in the hall before anyone have miss him .
He find the giant busy try to kindle a fire and get some light ; but after a bit someone cry out : ` Where be the princess ? '
` Here , in my arm , ' reply the fox .
` Do n't be afraid ; she be quite safe . '
And he wait until he think that his comrade have gain a good start , and put at least five or six mountain between themselves and the giant .
Then he spring through the door , call , a he go : ` The maiden be here ; take her if you can ! '
At these word the giant understand that their prize have escape , and they run after the fox as fast a their great leg could carry them , think that they should soon come up with the fox , who they suppose have the princess on his back .
The fox , on his side , be far too clever to choose the same path that his friend have take , but would in and out of the forest , till at last even HE be tire out , and fell fast asleep under a tree .
Indeed , he be so exhausted with his day 's work that he never hear the approach of the giant , and their hand be already stretch out to seize his tail when his eye open , and with a tremendous bound he be once more beyond their reach .
All the rest of the night the fox run and run ; but when bright red spread over the east , he stop and wait till the giant be close upon him .
Then he turn , and say quietly : ` Look , there be the Sister of the Sun ! '
The giant raise their eye all at once , and be instantly turn into pillar of stone .
The fox then make each pillar a low bow , and set off to join his friend .
He know a great many short cut across the hill , so it be not long before he come up with them , and all four travel night and day till they reach the castle of the Sister of the Sun .
What joy and feasting there be throughout the palace at the sight of the princess whom they have mourn a dead !
and they could not make enough of the boy who have go through such danger in order to rescue her .
The golden hen be give to him at once , and , more than that , the Sister of the Sun tell him that , in a little time , when he be a few year older , she would herself pay a visit to his home and become his wife .
The boy could hardly believe his ear when he hear what be in store for him , for his be the most beautiful princess in all the world ; and however thick the darkness might be , it flee away at once from the light of a star on her forehead .
So the boy set forth on his journey home , with his friend for company ; his heart full of gladness when he think of the promise of the princess .
But , one by one , his comrade drop off at the place where they have first meet him , and he be quite alone when he reach his native town and the gate of the palace .
With the golden hen under his arm he present himself before the king , and tell his adventure , and how he be go to have for a wife a princess so wonderful and unlike all other princess , that the star on her forehead could turn night into day .
The king listen silently , and when the boy have do , he say quietly : ` If I find that your story be not true I will have you throw into a cask of pitch . '
` It be true -- every word of it , ' answer the boy ; and go on to tell that the day and even the hour be fix when his bride be to come and seek him .
But a the time draw near , and nothing be hear of the princess , the youth become anxious and uneasy , especially when it come to his ear that the great cask be be fill with pitch , and that stick be lay underneath to make a fire to boil it with .
All day long the boy stand at the window , look over the sea by which the princess must travel ; but there be no sign of her , not even the tiny white sail .
And , a he stand , soldier come and lay hand on him , and lead him up to the cask , where a big fire be blaze , and the horrid black pitch boiling and bubbling over the side .
He look and shudder , but there be no escape ; so he shut his eye to avoid seeing .
The word be give for him to mount the step which lead to the top of the cask , when , suddenly , some men be see run with all their might , cry a they go that a large ship with it sail spread be make straight for the city .
No one know what the ship be , or whence it come ; but the king declare that he would not have the boy burn before it arrival , there would always be time enough for that .
At length the vessel be safe in port , and a whisper go through the watching crowd that on board be the Sister of the Sun , who have come to marry the young peasant a she have promise .
In a few moment more she have land , and desire to be show the way to the cottage which her bridegroom have so often described to her ; and whither he have be lead back by the king 's order at the first sign of the ship .
` Do n't you know me ? '
ask the Sister of the Sun , bend over him where he lay , almost drive out of his sens with terror .
` No , no ; I do n't know you , ' answer the youth , without raise his eye .
` Kiss me , ' say the Sister of the Sun ; and the youth obey her , but still without look up .
` Do n't you know me NOW ? '
ask she .
` No , I do n't know you -- I do n't know you , ' he reply , with the manner of a man whom fear have drive mad .
At this the Sister of the Sun grow rather frighten , and begin at the beginning , she tell him the story of his meeting with her , and how she have come a long way in order to marry him .
And just a she have finish in walk the king , to see if what the boy have say be really true .
But hardly have he open the door of the cottage when he be almost blind by the light that fill it ; and he remember what he have be tell about the star on the forehead of the princess .
He stagger back a if he have be strike , then a curious feeling take hold of him , which he have never felt before , and fall on his knee before the Sister of the Sun , he implore her to give up all thought of the peasant boy , and to share his throne .
But she laugh , and say she have a finer throne of her own , if she want to sit on it , and that she be free to please herself , and would have no husband but the boy whom she would never have see except for the king himself . '
I shall marry him to-morrow , ' end she ; and order the preparation to be set on foot at once .
When the next day come , however , the bridegroom 's father inform the princess that , by the law of the land , the marriage must take place in the presence of the king ; but he hop his majesty would not long delay his arrival .
An hour or two pass , and everyone be wait and watching , when at last the sound of trumpet be hear and a grand procession be see march up the street .
A chair cover with velvet have be make ready for the king , and he take his seat upon it , and , look round upon the assembled company , he say : ' I have no wish to forbid this marriage ; but , before I can allow it to be celebrate , the bridegroom must prove himself worthy of such a bride by fulfil three task .
And the first be that in a single day he must cut down every tree in an entire forest .
The youth stand aghast a the king 's word .
He have never cut down a tree in his life , and have not the least idea how to begin .
And a for a whole forest -- !
But the princess saw what be pass in his mind , and whisper to him : ` Do n't be afraid .
In my ship you will find an axe , which you must carry off to the forest .
When you have cut down one tree with it just say : `` So let the forest fall , '' and in an instant all the tree will be on the ground .
But pick up three chip of the tree you fell , and put them in your pocket . '
And the young man do exactly a he be bid , and soon return with the three chip safe in his coat .
The following morning the princess declare that she have be think about the matter , and that , a she be not a subject of the king , she saw no reason why she should be bind by his law ; and she mean to be marry that very day .
But the bridegroom 's father tell her that it be all very well for her to talk like that , but it be quite different for his son , who would pay with his head for any disobedience to the king 's command .
However , in consideration of what the youth have do the day before , he hop his majesty 's heart might be soften , especially a he have send a message that they might expect him at once .
With this the bridal pair have to be content , and be as patient a they could till the king 's arrival .
He do not keep them long , but they saw by his face that nothing good await them .
` The marriage can not take place , ' he say shortly , 'till the youth have join to their root all the tree he cut down yesterday . '
This sound much more difficult than what he have do before , and he turn in despair to the Sister of the Sun .
` It be all right , ' she whisper encouragingly .
` Take this water and sprinkle it on one of the fallen tree , and say to it : `` So let all the tree of the forest stand upright , '' and in a moment they will be erect again . '
And the young man do what he be tell , and leave the forest look exactly a it have do before .
Now , surely , think the princess , there be no longer any need to put off the wedding ; and she give order that all should be ready for the following day .
But again the old man interfere , and declare that without the king 's permission no marriage could take place .
For the third time his majesty be send for , and for the third time he proclaim that he could not give his consent until the bridegroom should have slay a serpent which dwelt in a broad river that flow at the back of the castle .
Everyone know story of this terrible serpent , though no one have actually see it ; but from time to time a child stray from home and never come back , and then mother would forbid the other child to go near the river , which have juicy fruit and lovely flower grow along it bank .
So no wonder the youth tremble and turn pale when he hear what lay before him .
` You will succeed in this also , ' whisper the Sister of the Sun , press his hand , ` for in my ship be a magic sword which will cut through everything .
Go down to the river and unfasten a boat which lie moor there , and throw the chip into the water .
When the serpent rear up it body you will cut off it three head with one blow of your sword .
Then take the tip of each tongue and go with it to-morrow morning into the king 's kitchen .
If the king himself should enter , just say to him : `` Here be three gift I offer you in return for the service you demand of me ! ''
and throw the tip of the serpent 's tongue at him , and hasten to the ship a fast a your leg will carry you .
But be sure you take great care never to look behind you . '
The young man do exactly what the princess have tell him .
The three chip which he fling into the river become a boat , and , a he steer across the stream , the serpent put up it head and hiss loudly .
The youth have his sword ready , and in another second the three head be bob on the water .
Guiding his boat till he be beside them , he stoop down and snip off the end of the tongue , and then row back to the other bank .
Next morning he carry them into the royal kitchen , and when the king enter , a be his custom , to see what he be go to have for dinner , the bridegroom fling them in his face , say : ` Here be a gift for you in return for the service you ask of me . '
And , open the kitchen door , he flee to the ship .
Unluckily he miss the way , and in his excitement run backwards and forward , without know whither he be go .
At last , in despair , he look round , and saw to his amazement that both the city and palace have vanish completely .
Then he turn his eye in the other direction , and , far , far away , he catch sight of the ship with her sail spread , and a fair wind behind her .
This dreadful spectacle seem to take away his sens , and all day long he wander about , without know where he be go , till , in the evening , he notice some smoke from a little hut of turf near by .
He go straight up to it and cry : ' O mother , let me come in for pity 's sake ! '
The old woman who live in the hut beckon to him to enter , and hardly be he inside when he cry again : ' O mother , can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
But the woman only shake her head .
` No , I know nothing of her , ' say she .
The young man turn to leave the hut , but the old woman stop him , and , give him a letter , beg him to carry it to her next eldest sister , say : ` If you should get tire on the way , take out the letter and rustle the paper . '
This advice surprise the young man a good deal , a he do not see how it could help him ; but he do not answer , and go down the road without know where he be go .
At length he grow so tired he could walk no more ; then he remember what the old woman have say .
After he have rustle the leaf only once all fatigue disappear , and he stride over the grass till he come to another little turf hut .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cry he .
And the door open in front of him .
` Your sister have send you this letter , ' he say , and add quickly : ' O mother !
can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` No , I know nothing of her , ' answer she .
But a he turn hopelessly away , she stop him .
` If you happen to pass my eldest sister 's house , will you give her this letter ? '
say she .
` And if you should get tire on the road , just take it out of your pocket and rustle the paper . '
So the young man put the letter in his pocket , and walk all day over the hill till he reach a little turf hut , exactly like the other two .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cry he .
And a he enter he add : ` Here be a letter from your sister and -- can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` Yes , I can , ' answer the old woman .
` She live in the castle on the Banka .
Her father lose a battle only a few day ago because you have steal his sword from him , and the Sister of the Sun herself be almost dead of grief .
But , when you see her , stick a pin into the palm of her hand , and suck the drop of blood that flow .
Then she will grow calmer , and will know you again .
Only , beware ; for before you reach the castle on the Banka fearful thing will happen . '
He thank the old woman with tear of gladness for the good news she have give him , and continue his journey .
But he have not go very far when , at a turn of the road , he meet with two brother , who be quarrel over a piece of cloth .
` My good men , what be you fight about ? '
say he .
` That cloth do not look worth much ! '
` Oh , it be rag enough , ' answer they , ` but it be leave u by our father , and if any man wrap it round him no one can see him ; and we each want it for our own . '
` Let me put it round me for a moment , ' say the youth , ` and then I will tell you whose it ought to be ! '
The brother be pleased with this idea , and give him the stuff ; but the moment he have throw it over his shoulder he disappear as completely a if he have never be there at all .
Meanwhile the young man walk briskly along , till he come up with two other men , who be dispute over a table-cloth .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he , stop in front of them .
` If this cloth be spread on a table , ' answer they , ` the table be instantly cover with the most delicious food ; and we each want to have it . '
` Let me try the table-cloth , ' say the youth , ` and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The two men be quite pleased with this idea , and hand him the cloth .
He then hastily throw the first piece of stuff round his shoulder and vanish from sight , leave the two men grieve over their own folly .
The young man have not walk far before he saw two more men stand by the road-side , both grasp the same stout staff , and sometimes one seem on the point of get it , and sometimes the other .
` What be you quarrel about ?
You could cut a dozen stick from the wood each just as good a that ! '
say the young man .
And a he speak the fighter both stop and look at him .
` Ah !
you may think so , ' say one , ` but a blow from one end of this stick will kill a man , while a touch from the other end will bring him back to life .
You wo n't easily find another stick like that ! '
` No ; that be true , ' answer the young man .
` Let me just look at it , and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The men be pleased with the idea , and hand him the staff .
` It be very curious , certainly , ' say he ; ` but which end be it that restore people to life ?
After all , anyone can be kill by a blow from a stick if it be only hard enough ! '
But when he be show the end he throw the stuff over his shoulder and vanished .
At last he saw another set of men , who be struggle for the possession of a pair of shoe .
` Why ca n't you leave that pair of old shoe alone ? '
say he .
` Why , you could not walk a yard in them ! '
` Yes , they be old enough , ' answer they ; ` but whoever put them on and wish himself at a particular place , get there without go . '
` That sound very clever , ' say the youth .
` Let me try them , and then I shall be able to tell you whose they ought to be . '
The idea please the men , and they hand him the shoe ; but the moment they be on his foot he cry : ' I wish to be in the castle on the Banka ! '
And before he know it , he be there , and find the Sister of the Sun dying of grief .
He kneel down by her side , and pull a pin he stick it into the palm of her hand , so that a drop of blood gush out .
This he suck , a he have be tell to do by the old woman , and immediately the princess come to herself , and fling her arm round his neck .
Then she tell him all her story , and what have happen since the ship have sail away without him .
` But the bad misfortune of all , ' she add , ` be a battle which my father lose because you have vanish with his magic sword ; and out of his whole army hardly one man be leave . '
` Show me the battle-field , ' say he .
And she take him to a wild heath , where the dead be lie a they fell , wait for burial .
One by one he touch them with the end of his staff , till at length they all stand before him .
Throughout the kingdom there be nothing but joy ; and THIS time the wedding be REALLY celebrate .
And the bridal pair live happily in the castle on the Banka till they die .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Prince and the Three Fates Once upon a time a little boy be bear to a king who rule over a great country through which run a wide river .
The king be nearly beside himself with joy , for he have always long for a son to inherit his crown , and he send message to beg all the most powerful fairy to come and see this wonderful baby .
In an hour or two , so many be gather round the cradle , that the child seem in danger of be smother ; but the king , who be watch the fairy eagerly , be disturb to see them look grave .
` Is there anything the matter ? '
he ask anxiously .
The fairy look at him , and all shake their head at once .
` He be a beautiful boy , and it be a great pity ; but what IS to happen WILL happen , ' say they .
` It be write in the book of fate that he must die , either by a crocodile , or a serpent , or by a dog .
If we could save him we would ; but that be beyond our power . '
And so say they vanish .
For a time the king stand where he be , horror-stricken at what he have hear ; but , be of a hopeful nature , he begin at once to invent plan to save the prince from the dreadful doom that await him .
He instantly send for his master builder , and bid him construct a strong castle on the top of a mountain , which should be fit with the most precious thing from the king 's own palace , and every kind of toy a child could wish to play with .
And , besides , he give the strict order that a guard should walk round the castle night and day .
For four or five year the baby live in the castle alone with his nurse , take his airing on the broad terrace , which be surround by wall , with a moat beneath them , and only a drawbridge to connect them with the outer world .
One day , when the prince be old enough to run quite fast by himself , he look from the terrace across the moat , and saw a little soft fluffy ball of a dog jumping and playing on the other side .
Now , of course , all dog have be keep from him for fear that the fairy ' prophecy should come true , and he have never even behold one before .
So he turn to the page who be walk behind him , and say : ` What be that funny little thing which be run so fast over there ? '
` That be a dog , prince , ' answer the page .
` Well , bring me one like it , and we will see which can run the faster . '
And he watch the dog till it have disappear round the corner .
The page be much puzzle to know what to do .
He have strict order to refuse the prince nothing ; yet he remember the prophecy , and felt that this be a serious matter .
At last he think he have well tell the king the whole story , and let him decide the question .
` Oh , get him a dog if he want one , ' say the king , ` he will only cry his heart out if he do not have it . '
So a puppy be find , exactly like the other ; they might have be twin , and perhaps they be .
Years go by , and the boy and the dog play together till the boy grow tall and strong .
The time come at last when he send a message to his father , say : ` Why do you keep me shut up here , do nothing ?
I know all about the prophecy that be make at my birth , but I would far rather be kill at once than live an idle , useless life here .
So give me arm , and let me go , I pray you ; me and my dog too . '
And again the king listen to his wish , and he and his dog be carry in a ship to the other side of the river , which be so broad here it might almost have be the sea .
A black horse be wait for him , tie to a tree , and he mount and ride away wherever his fancy take him , the dog always at his heel .
Never be any prince so happy a he , and he ride and ride till at length he come to a king 's palace .
The king who live in it do not care about look after his country , and see that his people live cheerful and contented life .
He spend his whole time in make riddle , and invent plan which he have much well have let alone .
At the period when the young prince reach the kingdom he have just complete a wonderful house for his only child , a daughter .
It have seventy window , each seventy foot from the ground , and he have send the royal herald round the border of the neighbouring kingdom to proclaim that whoever could climb up the wall to the window of the princess should win her for his wife .
The fame of the princess 's beauty have spread far and wide , and there be no lack of prince who wish to try their fortune .
Very funny the palace must have look each morning , with the dab of different colour on the white marble a the prince be climb up the wall .
But though some manage to get far than others , nobody be anywhere near the top .
They have already be spend several day in this manner when the young prince arrive , and a he be pleasant to look upon , and civil to talk to , they welcome him to the house , which have be give to them , and saw that his bath be properly perfume after his long journey .
` Where do you come from ? '
they say at last .
` And whose son be you ? '
But the young prince have reason for keep his own secret , and he answer : ` My father be master of the horse to the king of my country , and after my mother die he marry another wife .
At first all go well , but as soon a she have baby of her own she hat me , and I flee , l she should do me harm . '
The heart of the other young men be touch as soon a they hear this story , and they do everything they could think of to make him forget his past sorrow .
` What be you do here ? '
say the youth , one day .
` We spend our whole time climb up the wall of the palace , try to reach the window of the princess , ' answer the young men ; ` but , a yet , no one have reach within ten foot of them . '
` Oh , let me try too , ' cry the prince ; ` but to-morrow I will wait and see what you do before I begin .
So the next day he stand where he could watch the young men go up , and he note the place on the wall that seem most difficult , and make up his mind that when his turn come he would go up some other way .
Day after day he be to be see watch the wooer , till , one morning , he felt that he know the plan of the wall by heart , and take his place by the side of the others .
Thanks to what he have learn from the failure of the rest , he manage to grasp one little rough projection after another , till at last , to the envy of his friend , he stand on the sill of the princess 's window .
Looking up from below , they saw a white hand stretch forth to draw him in .
Then one of the young men run straight to the king 's palace , and say : ` The wall have be climb , and the prize be win ! '
` By whom ? '
cry the king , start up from his throne ; ` which of the prince may I claim a my son-in-law ? '
` The youth who succeed in climb to the princess 's window be not a prince at all , ' answer the young man .
` He be the son of the master of the horse to the great king who dwell across the river , and he flee from his own country to escape from the hatred of his stepmother . '
At this news the king be very angry , for it have never enter his head that anyone BUT a prince would seek to woo his daughter .
` Let him go back to the land whence he come , ' he shout in wrath ; ` do he expect me to give my daughter to an exile ? '
And he begin to smash the drinking vessel in his fury ; indeed , he quite frighten the young man , who run hastily home to his friend , and tell the youth what the king have say .
Now the princess , who be lean from her window , hear his word and bid the messenger go back to the king her father and tell him that she have swear a vow never to eat or drink again if the youth be take from her .
The king be more angry than ever when he receive this message , and order his guard to go at once to the palace and put the successful wooer to death ; but the princess throw herself between him and his murderer .
` Lay a finger on him , and I shall be dead before sunset , ' say she ; and a they saw that she mean it , they leave the palace , and carry the tale to her father .
By this time the king 's anger be die away , and he begin to consider what his people would think of him if he break the promise he have publicly give .
So he order the princess to be bring before him , and the young man also , and when they enter the throne room he be so pleased with the noble air of the victor that his wrath quite melt away , and he run to him and embrace him .
` Tell me who you be ? '
he ask , when he have recover himself a little , ` for I will never believe that you have not royal blood in your vein . '
But the prince still have his reason for be silent , and only tell the same story .
However , the king have take such a fancy to the youth that he say no more , and the marriage take place the following day , and great herd of cattle and a large estate be give to the young couple .
After a little while the prince say to his wife : ` My life be in the hand of three creature -- a crocodile , a serpent , and a dog . '
` Ah , how rash you be ! '
cry the princess , throw her arm round his neck .
` If you know that , how can you have that horrid beast about you ?
I will give order to have him kill at once . '
But the prince would not listen to her .
` Kill my dear little dog , who have be my playfellow since he be a puppy ? '
exclaim he .
` Oh , never would I allow that . '
And all that the princess could get from him be that he would always wear a sword , and have somebody with him when he leave the palace .
When the prince and princess have be marry a few month , the prince heard that his stepmother be dead , and his father be old and ill , and long to have his eldest son by his side again .
The young man could not remain deaf to such a message , and he take a tender farewell of his wife , and set out on his journey home .
It be a long way , and he be force to rest often on the road , and so it happen that , one night , when he be sleep in a city on the bank of the great river , a huge crocodile come silently up and make it way along a passage to the prince 's room .
Fortunately one of his guard wake up a it be try to steal past them , and shut the crocodile up in a large hall , where a giant watch over it , never leave the spot except during the night , when the crocodile slept .
And this go on for more than a month .
Now , when the prince find that he be not likely to leave his father 's kingdom again , he send for his wife , and bid the messenger tell her that he would await her come in the town on the bank of the great river .
This be the reason why he delay his journey so long , and narrowly escape be eat by the crocodile .
During the week that follow the prince amuse himself a best he could , though he count the minute to the arrival of the princess , and when she do come , he at once prepared to start for the court .
That very night , however , while he be asleep , the princess notice something strange in one of the corner of the room .
It be a dark patch , and seem , a she look , to grow long and longer , and to be move slowly towards the cushion on which the prince be lie .
She shrink in terror , but , slight a be the noise , the thing heard it , and raise it head to listen .
Then she saw it be the long flat head of a serpent , and the recollection of the prophecy rush into her mind .
Without wake her husband , she glide out of bed , and take up a heavy bowl of milk which stand on a table , lay it on the floor in the path of the serpent -- for she know that no serpent in the world can resist milk .
She hold her breath a the snake draw near , and watch it throw up it head again a if it be smell something nice , while it forky tongue dart out greedily .
At length it eye fell upon the milk , and in an instant it be lap it so fast that it be a wonder the creature do not choke , for it never take it head from the bowl as long a a drop be leave in it .
After that it drop on the ground and sleep heavily .
This be what the princess have be wait for , and catch up her husband 's sword , she sever the snake 's head from it body .
The morning after this adventure the prince and princess set out for the king 's palace , but find when they reach it , that he be already dead .
They give him a magnificent burial , and then the prince have to examine the new law which have be make in his absence , and do a great deal of business besides , till he grow quite ill from fatigue , and be oblige to go away to one of his palace on the bank of the river , in order to rest .
Here he soon get well , and begin to hunt , and to shoot wild duck with his bow ; and wherever he go , his dog , now grown very old , go with him .
One morning the prince and his dog be out a usual , and in chase their game they draw near the bank of the river .
The prince be run at full speed after his dog when he almost fell over something that look like a log of wood , which be lie in his path .
To his surprise a voice speak to him , and he saw that the thing which he have take for a branch be really a crocodile .
` You can not escape from me , ' it be say , when he have gather his sens again . '
I be your fate , and wherever you go , and whatever you do , you will always find me before you .
There be only one mean of shake off my power .
If you can dig a pit in the dry sand which will remain full of water , my spell will be break .
If not death will come to you speedily .
I give you this one chance .
Now go . '
The young man walk sadly away , and when he reach the palace he shut himself into his room , and for the rest of the day refuse to see anyone , not even his wife .
At sunset , however , a no sound could be hear through the door , the princess grow quite frightened , and make such a noise that the prince be force to draw back the bolt and let her come in .
` How pale you look , ' she cry , ` have anything hurt you ?
Tell me , I pray you , what be the matter , for perhaps I can help ! '
So the prince tell her the whole story , and of the impossible task give him by the crocodile .
` How can a sand hole remain full of water ? '
ask he .
` Of course , it will all run through .
The crocodile call it a `` chance '' ; but he might as well have drag me into the river at once .
He say truly that I can not escape him . '
` Oh , if that be all , ' cry the princess , ' I can set you free myself , for my fairy godmother teach me to know the use of plant and in the desert not far from here there grow a little four-leaved herb which will keep the water in the pit for a whole year .
I will go in search of it at dawn , and you can begin to dig the hole as soon a you like .
To comfort her husband , the princess have speak lightly and gaily ; but she know very well she have no light task before her .
Still , she be full of courage and energy , and determine that , one way or another , her husband should be save .
It be still starlight when she leave the palace on a snow-white donkey , and ride away from the river straight to the west .
For some time she could see nothing before her but a flat waste of sand , which become hotter and hotter a the sun rise high and high .
Then a dreadful thirst seize her and the donkey , but there be no stream to quench it , and if there have be she would hardly have have time to stop , for she still have far to go , and must be back before evening , or else the crocodile might declare that the prince have not fulfil his condition .
So she speak cheer word to her donkey , who bray in reply , and the two push steadily on .
Oh !
how glad they both be when they catch sight of a tall rock in the distance .
They forget that they be thirsty , and that the sun be hot ; and the ground seem to fly under their foot , till the donkey stop of it own accord in the cool shadow .
But though the donkey might rest the princess could not , for the plant , a she know , grow on the very top of the rock , and a wide chasm run round the foot of it .
Luckily she have bring a rope with her , and make a noose at one end , she fling it across with all her might .
The first time it slide back slowly into the ditch , and she have to draw it up , and throw it again , but at length the noose caught on something , the princess could not see what , and have to trust her whole weight to this little bridge , which might snap and let her fall deep down among the rock .
And in that case her death be as certain a that of the prince .
But nothing so dreadful happen .
The princess get safely to the other side , and then become the bad part of her task .
As fast a she put her foot on a ledge of the rock the stone break away from under her , and leave her in the same place a before .
Meanwhile the hour be pass , and it be nearly noon .
The heart of the poor princess be fill with despair , but she would not give up the struggle .
She look round till she saw a small stone above her which seem rather strong than the rest , and by only poise her foot lightly on those that lay between , she manage by a great effort to reach it .
In this way , with torn and bleed hand , she gain the top ; but here such a violent wind be blow that she be almost blind with dust , and be oblige to throw herself on the ground , and feel about after the precious herb .
For a few terrible moment she think that the rock be bare , and that her journey have be to no purpose .
Feel where she would , there be nothing but grit and stone , when , suddenly , her finger touch something soft in a crevice .
It be a plant , that be clear ; but be it the right one ?
See she could not , for the wind be blow more fiercely than ever , so she lay where she be and count the leaf .
One , two , three -- yes !
yes !
there be four !
And pluck a leaf she hold it safe in her hand while she turn , almost stun by the wind , to go down the rock .
When once she be safely over the side all become still in a moment , and she slide down the rock so fast that it be only a wonder that she do not land in the chasm .
However , by good luck , she stop quite close to her rope bridge and be soon across it .
The donkey bray joyfully at the sight of her , and set off home at his best speed , never seem to know that the earth under his foot be nearly as hot a the sun above him .
On the bank of the great river he halt , and the princess rush up to where the prince be stand by the pit he have digged in the dry sand , with a huge water pot beside it .
A little way off the crocodile lay blink in the sun , with his sharp teeth and whity-yellow jaw wide open .
At a signal from the princess the prince pour the water in the hole , and the moment it reach the brim the princess flung in the four-leaved plant .
Would the charm work , or would the water trickle away slowly through the sand , and the prince fall a victim to that horrible monster ?
For half an hour they stand with their eye root to the spot , but the hole remain as full a at the beginning , with the little green leaf float on the top .
Then the prince turn with a shout of triumph , and the crocodile sulkily plunge into the river .
The prince have escape for ever the second of his three fate !
He stand there look after the crocodile , and rejoice that he be free , when he be startle by a wild duck which fly past them , seek shelter among the rush that border the edge of the stream .
In another instant his dog dash by in hot pursuit , and knock heavily against his master 's leg .
The prince stagger , lose his balance and fell backwards into the river , where the mud and the rush catch him and hold him fast .
He shriek for help to his wife , who come run ; and luckily bring her rope with her .
The poor old dog be drown , but the prince be pull to shore .
` My wife , ' he say , ` have be strong than my fate . '
-LSB- Adapted from Les Contes Populaires de l'Egypte Ancienne . -RSB-
The Fox and the Lapp Once upon a time a fox lay peep out of his hole , watch the road that ran by at a little distance , and hop to see something that might amuse him , for he be feel very dull and rather cross .
For a long while he watch in vain ; everything seem asleep , and not even a bird stir overhead .
The fox grow cross than ever , and he be just turn away in disgust from his place when he hear the sound of foot come over the snow .
He crouch eagerly down at the edge of the road and say to himself : ' I wonder what would happen if I be to pretend to be dead !
This be a man drive a reindeer sledge , I know the tinkling of the harness .
And at any rate I shall have an adventure , and that be always something ! '
So he stretch himself out by the side of the road , carefully choose a spot where the driver could not help see him , yet where the reindeer would not tread on him ; and all fell out just a he have expect .
The sledge-driver pull up sharply , a his eye light on the beautiful animal lie stiffly beside him , and jump out he throw the fox into the bottom of the sledge , where the good he be carry be bind tightly together by rope .
The fox do not move a muscle though his bone be sore from the fall , and the driver get back to his seat again and drive on merrily .
But before they have go very far , the fox , who be near the edge , contrive to slip over , and when the Laplander saw him stretch out on the snow he pull up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the other sledge that be fasten behind , for it be market-day at the near town , and the man have much to sell .
They drive on a little further , when some noise in the forest make the man turn his head , just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thump on to the frozen snow .
` That beast be bewitch ! '
he say to himself , and then he throw the fox into the last sledge of all , which have a cargo of fish .
This be exactly what the cunning creature want , and he wriggle gently to the front and bite the cord which tie the sledge to the one before it so that it remain stand in the middle of the road .
Now there be so many sledge that the Lapp do not notice for a long while that one be miss ; indeed , he would have enter the town without know if snow have not suddenly begin to fall .
Then he get down to secure more firmly the cloth that keep his good dry , and go to the end of the long row , discover that the sledge contain the fish and the fox be miss .
He quickly unharness one of his reindeer and ride back along the way he have come , to find the sledge stand safe in the middle of the road ; but a the fox have bite off the cord close to the noose there be no mean of move it away .
The fox meanwhile be enjoy himself mightily .
As soon a he have loosen the sledge , he have take his favourite fish from among the pile neatly arrange for sale , and have trot off to the forest with it in his mouth .
By-and-by he meet a bear , who stop and say : ` Where do you find that fish , Mr. Fox ? '
` Oh , not far off , ' answer he ; ' I just stick my tail in the stream close by the place where the elf dwell , and the fish hung on to it of itself . '
` Dear me , ' snarl the bear , who be hungry and not in a good temper , ` if the fish hung on to your tail , I suppose he will hang on to mine . '
` Yes , certainly , grandfather , ' reply the fox , ` if you have patience to suffer what I suffer . '
` Of course I can , ' reply the bear , ` what nonsense you talk !
Show me the way . '
So the fox lead him to the bank of a stream , which , be in a warm place , have only lightly freeze in place , and be at this moment glitter in the spring sunshine .
` The elf bathe here , ' he say , ` and if you put in your tail the fish will catch hold of it .
But it be no use be in a hurry , or you will spoil everything . '
Then he trot off , but only go out of sight of the bear , who stand still on the bank with his tail deep in the water .
Soon the sun set and it grow very cold and the ice form rapidly , and the bear 's tail be fix as tight a if a vice have hold it ; and when the fox saw that everything have happen just a he have plan it , he call out loudly : ` Be quick , good people , and come with your bow and spear .
A bear have be fish in your brook ! '
And in a moment the whole place be full of little creature each one with a tiny bow and a spear hardly big enough for a baby ; but both arrow and spear could sting , a the bear knew very well , and in his fright he give such a tug to his tail that it break short off , and he roll away into the forest as fast a his leg could carry him .
At this sight the fox hold his side for laughing , and then scamper away in another direction .
By-and-by he come to a fir tree , and creep into a hole under the root .
After that he do something very strange .
Taking one of his hind foot between his two front paw , he say softly : ` What would you do , my foot , if someone be to betray me ? ' '
I would run so quickly that he should not catch you . '
` What would you do , mine ear , if someone be to betray me ? ' '
I would listen so hard that I should hear all his plan . '
` What would you do , my nose , if someone be to betray me ? ' '
I would smell so sharply that I should know from afar that he be come . '
` What would you do , my tail , if someone be to betray me ? ' '
I would steer you so straight a course that you would soon be beyond his reach .
Let u be off ; I feel a if danger be near . '
But the fox be comfortable where he be , and do not hurry himself to take his tail 's advice .
And before very long he find he be too late , for the bear have come round by another path , and guess where his enemy be begin to scratch at the root of the tree .
The fox make himself as small a he could , but a scrap of his tail peep out , and the bear seize it and hold it tight .
Then the fox dig his claw into the ground , but he be not strong enough to pull against the bear , and slowly he be drag forth and his body flung over the bear 's neck .
In this manner they set out down the road , the fox 's tail be always in the bear 's mouth .
After they have go some way , they pass a tree-stump , on which a bright colour woodpecker be tap .
` Ah !
those be good time when I use to paint all the bird such gay colour , ' sigh the fox .
` What be you say , old fellow ? '
ask the bear .
` I ?
Oh , I be say nothing , ' answer the fox drearily .
` Just carry me to your cave and eat me up as quick a you can . '
The bear be silent , and thought of his supper ; and the two continue their journey till they reach another tree with a woodpecker tap on it .
` Ah !
those be good time when I use to paint all the bird such gay colour , ' say the fox again to himself .
` Could n't you paint me too ? '
ask the bear suddenly .
But the fox shook his head ; for he be always act , even if no one be there to see him do it .
` You bear pain so badly , ' he reply , in a thoughtful voice , ` and you be impatient besides , and could never put up with all that be necessary .
Why , you would first have to dig a pit , and then twist rope of willow , and drive in post and fill the hole with pitch , and , last of all , set it on fire .
Oh , no ; you would never be able to do all that . '
` It do not matter a straw how hard the work be , ' answer the bear eagerly , ' I will do it every bit . '
And a he speak he begin tear up the earth so fast that soon a deep pit be ready , deep enough to hold him .
` That be all right , ' say the fox at last , ' I see I be mistake in you .
Now sit here , and I will bind you . '
So the bear sit down on the edge of the pit , and the fox sprang on his back , which he cross with the willow rope , and then set fire to the pitch .
It burn up in an instant , and catch the band of willow and the bear 's rough hair ; but he do not stir , for he think that the fox be rub the bright colour into his skin , and that he would soon be as beautiful a a whole meadow of flower .
But when the fire grow hotter still he move uneasily from one foot to the other , say , imploringly : ` It be get rather warm , old man . '
But all the answer he get be : ' I think you would never be able to suffer pain like those little bird . '
The bear do not like be tell that he be not as brave a a bird , so he set his teeth and resolve to endure anything sooner than speak again ; but by this time the last willow band have burn through , and with a push the fox send his victim tumble into the grass , and run off to hide himself in the forest .
After a while he steal cautiously and found , a he expect , nothing leave but a few charred bone .
These he pick up and put in a bag , which he sling over his back .
By-and-by he meet a Lapp drive his team of reindeer along the road , and a he draw near , the fox rattle the bone gaily .
` That sound like silver or gold , ' think the man to himself .
And he say politely to the fox : ` Good-day , friend !
What have you get in your bag that make such a strange sound ? '
` All the wealth my father leave me , ' answer the fox .
` Do you feel incline to bargain ? '
` Well , I do n't mind , ' reply the Lapp , who be a prudent man , and do not wish the fox to think him too eager ; ` but show me first what money you have get . '
` Ah , but I ca n't do that , ' answer the fox , ` my bag be seal up .
But if you will give me those three reindeer , you shall take it a it be , with all it content . '
The Lapp do not quite like it , but the fox spoke with such an air that his doubt melt away .
He nod , and stretch out his hand ; the fox put the bag into it , and unharnassed the reindeer he have choose .
` Oh , I forget ! '
he exclaim , turn round , a he be about to drive them in the opposite direction , ` you must be sure not to open the bag until you have go at least five mile , right on the other side of those hill out there .
If you do , you will find that all the gold and silver have change into a parcel of charred bone . '
Then he whip up his reindeer , and be soon out of sight .
For some time the Lapp be satisfy with hear the bone rattle , and think to himself what a good bargain he have make , and of all the thing he would buy with the money .
But , after a bit , this amusement cease to content him , and besides , what be the use of plan when you do not know for certain how rich you be ?
Perhaps there might be a great deal of silver and only a little gold in the bag ; or a great deal of gold , and only a little silver .
Who could tell ?
He would not , of course , take the money out to count it , for that might bring him bad luck .
But there could be no harm in just one peep !
So he slowly break the seal , and untie the string , and , behold , a heap of burnt bone lay before him !
In a minute he know he have be trick , and fling the bag to the ground in a rage , he run after the fox as fast a his snow-shoes would carry him .
Now the fox have guess exactly what would happen , and be on the look out .
Directly he saw the little speck come towards him , he wish that the man 's snow-shoes might break , and that very instant the Lapp 's shoe snap in two .
The Lapp do now know that this be the fox 's work , but he have to stop and fetch one of his other reindeer , which he mount , and set off again in pursuit of his enemy .
The fox soon hear him come , and this time he wish that the reindeer might fall and break it leg .
And so it do ; and the man felt it be a hopeless chase , and that he be no match for the fox .
So the fox drove on in peace till he reach the cave where all his store be keep , and then he begin to wonder whom he could get to help him kill his reindeer , for though he could steal reindeer he be too small to kill them .
` After all , it will be quite easy , ' think he , and he bid a squirrel , who be watch him on a tree close by , take a message to all the robber beast of the forest , and in less than half an hour a great crashing of branch be hear , and bear , wolf , snake , mouse , frog , and other creature come press up to the cave .
When they hear why they have be summon , they declare themselves ready each one to do his part .
The bear take his crossbow from his neck and shoot the reindeer in the chin ; and , from that day to this , every reindeer have a mark in that same spot , which be always know a the bear 's arrow .
The wolf shoot him in the thigh , and the sign of his arrow still remain ; and so with the mouse and the viper and all the rest , even the frog ; and at the last the reindeer all die .
And the fox do nothing , but look on . '
I really must go down to the brook and wash myself , ' say he -LRB- though he be perfectly clean -RRB- , and he go under the bank and hid himself behind a stone .
From there he set up the most frightful shriek , so that the animal flee away in all direction .
Only the mouse and the ermine remain where they be , for they think that they be much too small to be notice .
The fox continue his shriek till he felt sure that the animal must have get to a safe distance ; then he crawl out of his hiding-place and go to the body of the reindeer , which he now have all to himself .
He gather a bundle of stick for a fire , and be just prepare to cook a steak , when his enemy , the Lapp , come up , pant with haste and excitement .
` What be you do there ? '
cry he ; ` why do you palm off those bone on me ?
And why , when you have get the reindeer , do you kill them ? '
` Dear brother , ' answer the fox with a sob , ` do not blame me for this misfortune .
It be my comrade who have slay them in spite of my prayer . '
The man make no reply , for the white fur of the ermine , who be crouch with the mouse behind some stone , have just catch his eye .
He hastily seize the iron hook which hung over the fire and fling it at the little creature ; but the ermine be too quick for him , and the hook only touch the top of it tail , and that have remain black to this day .
As for the mouse , the Lapp throw a half-burnt stick after him , and though it be not enough to hurt him , his beautiful white skin be smear all over with it , and all the washing in the world would not make him clean again .
And the man would have be wiser if he have let the ermine and the mouse alone , for when he turn round again he find he be alone .
Directly the fox notice that his enemy 's attention have wander from himself he watch his chance , and stole softly away till he have reach a clump of thick bush , when he run as fast a he could , till he reach a river , where a man be mend his boat .
` Oh , I wish , I wish , I have a boat to mend too ! '
he cry , sit up on his hind-legs and look into the man 's face .
` Stop your silly chatter ! '
answer the man crossly , ` or I will give you a bath in the river . '
` Oh , I wish , I do wish , I have a boat to mend , ' cry the fox again , a if he have not hear .
And the man grow angry and seize him by the tail , and throw him far out in the stream close to the edge of an island ; which be just what the fox want .
He easily scramble up , and sit on the top , he call : ` Hasten , hasten , O fish , and carry me to the other side ! '
And the fish leave the stone where they have be sleep , and the pool where they have be feed , and hurry to see who could get to the island first . '
I have win , ' shout the pike .
` Jump on my back , dear fox , and you will find yourself in a trice on the opposite shore . '
` No , thank you , ' answer the fox , ` your back be much too weak for me .
I should break it . '
` Try mine , ' say the eel , who have wriggle to the front .
` No , thank you , ' reply the fox again , ' I should slip over your head and be drown . '
` You wo n't slip on MY back , ' say the perch , come forward .
` No ; but you be really TOO rough , ' return the fox .
` Well , you can have no fault to find with ME , ' put in the trout .
` Good gracious !
be YOU here ? '
exclaim the fox .
` But I 'm afraid to trust myself to you either . '
At this moment a fine salmon swam slowly up .
` Ah , yes , you be the person I want , ' say the fox ; ` but come near , so that I may get on your back , without wet my foot . '
So the salmon swam close under the island , and when he be touch it the fox seize him in his claw and draw him out of the water , and put him on a spit , while he kindle a fire to cook him by .
When everything be ready , and the water in the pot be get hot , he pop him in , and wait till he think the salmon be nearly boil .
But a he stoop down the water give a sudden fizzle , and splash into the fox 's eye , blind him .
He start backwards with a cry of pain , and sit still for some minute , rock himself to and fro .
When he be a little better he rise and walk down a road till he meet a grouse , who stop and ask what be the matter .
` Have you a pair of eye anywhere about you ? '
ask the fox politely .
` No , I be afraid I have n't , ' answer the grouse , and pass on .
A little while after the fox heard the buzzing of an early bee , whom a gleam of sun have tempt out .
` Do you happen to have an extra pair of eye anywhere ? '
ask the fox . '
I be sorry to say I have only those I be use , ' reply the bee .
And the fox go on till he nearly fell over an asp who be glide across the road . '
I should be SO glad if you would tell me where I could get a pair of eye , ' say the fox . '
I suppose you do n't happen to have any you could lend me ? '
` Well , if you only want them for a short time , perhaps I could manage , ' answer the asp ; ` but I ca n't do without them for long . '
` Oh , it be only for a very short time that I need them , ' say the fox ; ' I have a pair of my own just behind that hill , and when I find them I will bring yours back to you .
Perhaps you will keep these till them . '
So he take the eye out of his own head and pop them into the head of the asp , and put the asp 's eye in their place .
As he be run off he cry over his shoulder : ` As long a the world last the asp ' eye will go down in the head of fox from generation to generation . '
And so it have be ; and if you look at the eye of an asp you will see that they be all burnt ; and though thousand and thousand of year have go by since the fox be go about play trick upon everybody he meet , the asp still bear the trace of the day when the sly creature cook the salmon .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Kisa the Cat Once upon a time there live a queen who have a beautiful cat , the colour of smoke , with china-blue eye , which she be very fond of .
The cat be constantly with her , and ran after her wherever she go , and even sit up proudly by her side when she drive out in her fine glass coach .
` Oh , pussy , ' say the queen one day , ` you be happy than I be !
For you have a dear kitten just like yourself , and I have nobody to play with but you . '
` Do n't cry , ' answer the cat , lay her paw on her mistress 's arm .
` Crying never do any good .
I will see what can be do . '
The cat be as good a her word .
As soon a she return from her drive she trot off to the forest to consult a fairy who dwell there , and very soon after the queen have a little girl , who seem make out of snow and sunbeam .
The queen be delight , and soon the baby begin to take notice of the kitten a she jump about the room , and would not go to sleep at all unless the kitten lay curl up beside her .
Two or three month go by , and though the baby be still a baby , the kitten be fast become a cat , and one evening when , a usual , the nurse come to look for her , to put her in the baby 's cot , she be nowhere to be find .
What a hunt there be for that kitten , to be sure !
The servant , each anxious to find her , a the queen be certain to reward the lucky man , search in the most impossible place .
Boxes be open that would hardly have hold the kitten 's paw ; book be take from bookshelf , l the kitten should have get behind them , drawer be pull out , for perhaps the kitten might have get shut in .
But it be all no use .
The kitten have plainly run away , and nobody could tell if it would ever choose to come back .
Years pass away , and one day , when the princess be play ball in the garden , she happen to throw her ball farther than usual , and it fell into a clump of rose-bushes .
The princess of course ran after it at once , and she be stoop down to feel if it be hide in the long grass , when she hear a voice call her : ` Ingibjorg !
Ingibjorg ! '
it say , ` have you forget me ?
I be Kisa , your sister ! '
` But I never HAD a sister , ' answer Ingibjorg , very much puzzle ; for she know nothing of what have take place so long ago .
` Do n't you remember how I always sleep in your cot beside you , and how you cry till I come ?
But girl have no memory at all !
Why , I could find my way straight up to that cot this moment , if I be once inside the palace . '
` Why do you go away then ? '
ask the princess .
But before Kisa could answer , Ingibjorg 's attendant arrive breathless on the scene , and be so horrify at the sight of a strange cat , that Kisa plunge into the bush and go back to the forest .
The princess be very much vexed with her lady-in-waiting for frighten away her old playfellow , and tell the queen who come to her room every evening to bid her good-night .
` Yes , it be quite true what Kisa say , ' answer the queen ; ' I should have like to see her again .
Perhaps , some day , she will return , and then you must bring her to me . '
Next morning it be very hot , and the princess declare that she must go and play in the forest , where it be always cool , under the big shady tree .
As usual , her attendant let her do anything she please , and sit down on a mossy bank where a little stream tinkle by , soon fell sound asleep .
The princess saw with delight that they would pay no heed to her , and wander on and on , expect every moment to see some fairy dance round a ring , or some little brown elf peep at her from behind a tree .
But , ala !
she meet none of these ; instead , a horrible giant come out of his cave and order her to follow him .
The princess felt much afraid , a he be so big and ugly , and begin to be sorry that she have not stay within reach of help ; but a there be no use in disobey the giant , she walk meekly behind .
They go a long way , and Ingibjorg grow very tired , and at length begin to cry . '
I do n't like girl who make horrid noise , ' say the giant , turn round .
` But if you WANT to cry , I will give you something to cry for . '
And draw an axe from his belt , he cut off both her foot , which he pick up and put in his pocket .
Then he go away .
Poor Ingibjorg lay on the grass in terrible pain , and wonder if she should stay there till she die , a no one would know where to look for her .
How long it be since she have set out in the morning she could not tell -- it seem year to her , of course ; but the sun be still high in the heaven when she hear the sound of wheel , and then , with a great effort , for her throat be parch with fright and pain , she give a shout . '
I be come ! '
be the answer ; and in another moment a cart make it way through the tree , drive by Kisa , who use her tail a a whip to urge the horse to go faster .
Directly Kisa saw Ingibjorg lie there , she jump quickly down , and lift the girl carefully in her two front paw , lay her upon some soft hay , and drive back to her own little hut .
In the corner of the room be a pile of cushion , and these Kisa arrange a a bed .
Ingibjorg , who by this time be nearly faint from all she have go through , drink greedily some milk , and then sink back on the cushion while Kisa fetch some dry herb from a cupboard , soak them in warm water and tie them on the bleeding leg .
The pain vanish at once , and Ingibjorg look up and smile at Kisa .
` You will go to sleep now , ' say the cat , ` and you will not mind if I leave you for a little while .
I will lock the door , and no one can hurt you . '
But before she have finish the princess be asleep .
Then Kisa get into the cart , which be stand at the door , and catch up the rein , drive straight to the giant 's cave .
Leaving her cart behind some tree , Kisa creep gently up to the open door , and , crouch down , listen to what the giant be tell his wife , who be at supper with him .
` The first day that I can spare I shall just go back and kill her , ' he say ; ` it would never do for people in the forest to know that a mere girl can defy me ! '
And he and his wife be so busy call Ingibjorg all sort of name for her bad behaviour , that they never notice Kisa steal into a dark corner , and upset a whole bag of salt into the great pot before the fire .
` Dear me , how thirsty I be ! '
cry the giant by-and-by .
` So be I , ' answer the wife . '
I do wish I have not take that last spoonful of broth ; I be sure something be wrong with it . '
` If I do n't get some water I shall die , ' go on the giant .
And rush out of the cave , follow by his wife , he run down the path which lead to the river .
Then Kisa enter the hut , and lose no time in search every hole till she come upon some grass , under which Ingibjorg 's foot be hide , and put them in her cart , drive back again to her own hut .
Ingibjorg be thankful to see her , for she have lain , too frighten to sleep , tremble at every noise .
` Oh , be it you ? '
she cry joyfully , a Kisa turn the key .
And the cat come in , hold up the two neat little foot in their silver slipper .
` In two minute they shall be as tight a they ever be ! '
say Kisa .
And take some string of the magic grass which the giant have carelessly heap on them , she bind the foot on to the leg above .
` Of course you wo n't be able to walk for some time ; you must not expect THAT , ' she continue .
` But if you be very good , perhaps , in about a week , I may carry you home again . '
And so she do ; and when the cat drive the cart up to the palace gate , lash the horse furiously with her tail , and the king and queen saw their lose daughter sit beside her , they declare that no reward could be too great for the person who have bring her out of the giant 's hand .
` We will talk about that by-and-by , ' say the cat , a she make her best bow , and turn her horse 's head .
The princess be very unhappy when Kisa leave her without even bid her farewell .
She would neither eat nor drink , nor take any notice of all the beautiful dress her parent buy for her .
` She will die , unless we can make her laugh , ' one whisper to the other .
` Is there anything in the world that we have leave untried ? '
` Nothing except marriage , ' answer the king .
And he invite all the handsome young men he could think of to the palace , and bid the princess choose a husband from among them .
It take her some time to decide which she admire the most , but at last she fix upon a young prince , whose eye be like the pool in the forest , and his hair of bright gold .
The king and the queen be greatly pleased , a the young man be the son of a neighbouring king , and they give order that a splendid feast should be get ready .
When the marriage be over , Kisa suddenly stand before them , and Ingibjorg rush forward and clasp her in her arm . '
I have come to claim my reward , ' say the cat .
` Let me sleep for this night at the foot of your bed . '
` Is that ALL ? '
ask Ingibjorg , much disappoint .
` It be enough , ' answer the cat .
And when the morning dawn , it be no cat that lay upon the bed , but a beautiful princess .
` My mother and I be both enchant by a spiteful fairy , ' say she , ` we could not free ourselves till we have do some kindly deed that have never be work before .
My mother die without ever find a chance of do anything new , but I take advantage of the evil act of the giant to make you as whole a ever . '
Then they be all more delighted than before , and the princess live in the court until she , too , marry , and go away to govern one of her own .
-LSB- Adapted from Neuislandischen Volksmarchen . -RSB-
The Lion and the Cat Far away on the other side of the world there live , long ago , a lion and his younger brother , the wild cat , who be so fond of each other that they share the same hut .
The lion be much the big and strong of the two -- indeed , he be much big and strong than any of the beast that dwell in the forest ; and , besides , he could jump father and run fast than all the rest .
If strength and swiftness could gain him a dinner he be sure never to be without one , but when it come to cunning , both the grizzly bear and the serpent could get the good of him , and he be force to call in the help of the wild cat .
Now the young wild cat have a lovely golden ball , so beautiful that you could hardly look at it except through a piece of smoked glass , and he keep it hide in the thick fur muff that go round his neck .
A very large old animal , since dead , have give it to him when he be hardly more than a baby , and have tell him never to part with it , for as long a he keep it no harm could ever come near him .
In general the wild cat do not need to use his ball , for the lion be fond of hunting , and could kill all the food that they need ; but now and then his life would have be in danger have it not be for the golden ball .
One day the two brother start to hunt at daybreak , but a the cat could not run nearly as fast a the lion , he have quite a long start .
At least he THOUGHT it be a long one , but in a very few bound and spring the lion reach his side .
` There be a bear sit on that tree , ' he whisper softly .
` He be only wait for u to pass , to drop down on my back . '
` Ah , you be so big that he do not see I be behind you , ' answer the wild cat .
And , touch the ball , he just say : ` Bear , die ! '
And the bear tumble dead out of the tree , and roll over just in front of them .
For some time they trot on without any adventure , till just a they be about to cross a strip of long grass on the edge of the forest , the lion 's quick ear detect a faint rustle noise .
` That be a snake , ' he cry , stop short , for he be much more afraid of snake than of bear .
` Oh , it be all right , ' answer the cat .
` Snake , die ! '
And the snake die , and the two brother skin it .
They then fold the skin up into a very small parcel , and the cat tuck it into his mane , for snake ' skin can do all sort of wonderful thing , if you be lucky enough to have one of them .
All this time they have have no dinner , for the snake 's flesh be not nice , and the lion do not like eat bear -- perhaps because he never felt sure that the bear be REALLY dead , and would not jump up alive when his enemy go near him .
Most people be afraid of SOME thing , and bear and serpent be the only creature that cause the lion 's heart to tremble .
So the two brother set off again and soon reach the side of a hill where some fine deer be graze .
` Kill one of those deer for your own dinner , ' say the boy-brother , ` but catch me another alive .
I want him . '
The lion at once sprang towards them with a loud roar , but the deer bound away , and they be all three soon lose to sight .
The cat wait for a long while , but find that the lion do not return , go back to the house where they live .
It be quite dark when the lion come home , where his brother be sit curl up in one corner .
` Did you catch the deer for me ? '
ask the boy-brother , spring up .
` Well , no , ' reply the man-brother .
` The fact be , that I do not get up to them till we have run half way across the world and leave the wind far behind u .
Think what a trouble it would have be to drag it here !
So -- I just eat them both . '
The cat say nothing , but he do not feel that he love his big brother .
He have think a great deal about that deer , and have mean to get on his back to ride him a a horse , and go to see all the wonderful place the lion talk to him about when he be in a good temper .
The more he think of it the more sulky he grow , and in the morning , when the lion say that it be time for them to start to hunt , the cat tell him that he might kill the bear and snake by himself , a HE have a headache , and would rather stay at home .
The little fellow know quite well that the lion would not dare to go out without him and his ball for fear of meet a bear or a snake .
The quarrel go on , and for many day neither of the brother speak to each other , and what make them still more cross be , that they could get very little to eat , and we know that people be often cross when they be hungry .
At last it occur to the lion that if he could only steal the magic ball he could kill bear and snake for himself , and then the cat might be as sulky a he like for anything that it would matter .
But how be the stealing to be do ?
The cat have the ball hung round his neck day and night , and he be such a light sleeper that it be useless to think of take it while he sleep .
No !
the only thing be to get him to lend it of his own accord , and after some day the lion -LRB- who be not at all clever -RRB- hit upon a plan that he think would do .
` Dear me , how dull it be here ! '
say the lion one afternoon , when the rain be pour down in such torrent that , however sharp your eye or your nose might be , you could not spy a single bird or beast among the bush .
` Dear me , how dull , how dreadfully dull I be .
Could n't we have a game of catch with that golden ball of yours ? ' '
I do n't care about play catch , it do not amuse me , ' answer the cat , who be as cross a ever ; for no cat , even to this day , ever forget an injury do to him .
` Well , then , lend me the ball for a little , and I will play by myself , ' reply the lion , stretch out a paw a he speak .
` You ca n't play in the rain , and if you do , you would only lose it in the bush , ' say the cat .
` Oh , no , I wo n't ; I will play in here .
Do n't be so ill-natured . '
And with a very bad grace the cat untie the string and throw the golden ball into the lion 's lap , and compose himself to sleep again .
For a long while the lion toss it up and down gaily , feel that , however sound asleep the boy-brother might LOOK , he be sure to have one eye open ; but gradually he begin to edge closer to the opening , and at last give such a toss that the ball go up high into the air , and he could not see what become of it .
` Oh , how stupid of me ! '
he cry , a the cat spring up angrily , ` let u go at once and search for it .
It ca n't really have fall very far . '
But though they search that day and the next , and the next after that , they never find it , because it never come down .
After the loss of his ball the cat refuse to live with the lion any long , but wander away to the north , always hop he might meet with his ball again .
But month pass , and year pass , and though he travel over hundred of mile , he never saw any trace of it .
At length , when he be get quite old , he come to a place unlike any that he have ever see before , where a big river roll right to the foot of some high mountain .
The ground all about the river bank be damp and marshy , and a no cat like to wet it foot , this one climb a tree that rise high above the water , and think sadly of his lost ball , which would have help him out of this horrible place .
Suddenly he saw a beautiful ball , for all the world like his own , dangle from a branch of the tree he be on .
He long to get at it ; but be the branch strong enough to bear his weight ?
It be no use , after all he have do , get drown in the water .
However , it could do no harm , if he be to go a little way ; he could always manage to get back somehow .
So he stretch himself at full length upon the branch , and wriggle his body cautiously along .
To his delight it seem thick and stout .
Another movement , and , by stretch out his paw , he would be able to draw the string towards him , when the branch give a loud crack , and the cat make haste to wriggle himself back the way he have come .
But when cat make up their mind to do anything they generally DO it ; and this cat begin to look about to see if there be really no way of get at his ball .
Yes !
there be , and it be much sure than the other , though rather more difficult .
Above the bough where the ball be hung be another bough much thicker , which he know could not break with his weight ; and by hold on tight to this with all his four paw , he could just manage to touch the ball with his tail .
He would thus be able to whisk the ball to and fro till , by-and-by , the string would become quite loose , and it would fall to the ground .
It might take some time , but the lion 's little brother be patient , like most cat .
Well , it all happen just a the cat intend it should , and when the ball drop on the ground the cat run down the tree like lightning , and , pick it up , tuck it away in the snake 's skin round his neck .
Then he begin jump along the shore of the Big Water from one place to another , try to find a boat , or even a log of wood , that would take him across .
But there be nothing ; only , on the other side , he saw two girl cooking , and though he shout to them at the top of his voice , they be too far off to hear what he say .
And , what be bad , the ball suddenly fell out of it snake 's skin bag right into the river .
Now , it be not at all an uncommon thing for ball to tumble into river , but in that case they generally either fall to the bottom and stay there , or else bob about on the top of the water close to where they first touch it .
But this ball , instead of do either of these thing , go straight across to the other side , and there one of the girl saw it when she stoop to dip some water into her pail .
` Oh !
what a lovely ball ! '
cry she , and try to catch it in her pail ; but the ball always keep bob just out of her reach .
` Come and help me ! '
she call to her sister , and after a long while they have the ball safe inside the pail .
They be delight with their new toy , and one or the other hold it in her hand till bedtime come , and then it be a long time before they could make up their mind where it would be safe for the night .
At last they lock it in a cupboard in one corner of their room , and a there be no hole anywhere the ball could not possibly get out .
After that they go to sleep .
In the morning the first thing they both do be to run to the cupboard and unlock it , but when the door open they start back , for , instead of the ball , there stand a handsome young man .
` Ladies , ' he say , ` how can I thank you for what you have do for me ?
Long , long ago , I be enchant by a wicked fairy , and condemn to keep the shape of a ball till I should meet with two maiden , who would take me to their own home .
But where be I to meet them ?
For hundred of year I have live in the depth of the forest , where nothing but wild beast ever come , and it be only when the lion throw me into the sky that I be able to fall to earth near this river .
Where there be a river , sooner or later people will come ; so , hang myself on a tree , I watch and wait .
For a moment I lose heart when I fell once more into the hand of my old master the wild cat , but my hope rise again a I saw he be make for the river bank opposite where you be stand .
That be my chance , and I take it .
And now , lady , I have only to say that , if ever I can do anything to help you , go to the top of that high mountain and knock three time at the iron door at the north side , and I will come to you . '
So , with a low bow , he vanish from before them , leave the maiden weep at have lose in one moment both the ball and the prince .
-LSB- Adapted from North American Indian Legends . -RSB-
Which be the Foolishest ?
In a little village that stand on a wide plain , where you could see the sun from the moment he rise to the moment he set , there live two couple side by side .
The men , who work under the same master , be quite good friend , but the wife be always quarrel , and the subject they quarrel most about be -- which of the two have the stupid husband .
Unlike most woman -- who think that anything that belong to them must be good than what belong to anyone else -- each think her husband the more foolish of the two .
` You should just see what he do ! '
one say to her neighbour .
` He put on the baby 's frock upside down , and , one day , I find him try to fee her with boiling soup , and her mouth be scald for day after .
Then he pick up stone in the road and sow them instead of potato , and one day he want to go into the garden from the top window , because he declare it be a short way than through the door . '
` That be bad enough , of course , ' answer the other ; ` but it be really NOTHING to what I have to endure every day from MY husband .
If , when I be busy , I ask him to go and fee the poultry , he be certain to give them some poisonous stuff instead of their proper food , and when I visit the yard next I find them all dead .
Once he even take my best bonnet , when I have go away to my sick mother , and when I come back I find he have give it to the hen to lay her egg in .
And you know yourself that , only last week , when I send him to buy a cask of butter , he return drive a hundred and fifty duck which someone have induce him to take , and not one of them would lay . '
` Yes , I be afraid he IS try , ' reply the first ; ` but let u put them to the proof , and see which of them be the most foolish . '
So , about the time that she expect her husband home from work , she get out her spinning-wheel , and sit busily turn it , take care not even to look up from her work when the man come in .
For some minute he stand with his mouth open watch her , and a she still remain silent , he say at last : ` Have you go mad , wife , that you sit spin without anything on the wheel ? '
` YOU may think that there be nothing on it , ' answer she , ` but I can assure you that there be a large skein of wool , so fine that nobody can see it , which will be weave into a coat for you . '
` Dear me ! '
he reply , ` what a clever wife I have get !
If you have not tell me I should never have know that there be any wool on the wheel at all .
But now I really do seem to see something . '
The woman smile and be silent , and after spin busily for an hour more , she get up from her stoop , and begin to weave as fast a she could .
At last she get up , and say to her husband : ' I be too tired to finish it to-night , so I shall go to bed , and to-morrow I shall only have the cutting and stitch to do . '
So the next morning she get up early , and after she have clean her house , and feed her chicken , and put everything in it place again , she bend over the kitchen table , and the sound of her big scissors might be hear snip !
snap !
as far a the garden .
Her husband could not see anything to snip at ; but then he be so stupid that be not surprising !
After the cutting come the sewing .
The woman pat and pin and fixed and join , and then , turn to the man , she say : ` Now it be ready for you to try on . '
And she make him take off his coat , and stand up in front of her , and once more she pat an pinned and fixed and join , and be very careful in smooth out every wrinkle .
` It do not feel very warm , ' observe the man at last , when he have bear all this patiently for a long time .
` That be because it be so fine , ' answer she ; ` you do not want it to be as thick a the rough clothes you wear every day . '
He DID , but be ashamed to say so , and only answer : ` Well , I be sure it must be beautiful since you say so , and I shall be smart than anyone in the whole village .
`` What a splendid coat ! ''
they will exclaim when they see me .
But it be not everybody who have a wife as clever a mine . '
Meanwhile the other wife be not idle .
As soon a her husband enter she look at him with such a look of terror that the poor man be quite frighten .
` Why do you stare at me so ?
Is there anything the matter ? '
ask he .
` Oh !
go to bed at once , ' she cry ; ` you must be very ill indeed to look like that ! '
The man be rather surprise at first , a he felt particularly well that even ; but the moment his wife speak he become quite certain that he have something dreadful the matter with him , and grow quite pale . '
I dare say it would be the best place for me , ' he answer , tremble ; and he suffer his wife to take him upstairs , and to help him off with his clothes .
` If you sleep well during the might there MAY be a chance for you , ' say she , shake her head , a she tuck him up warmly ; ` but if not -- ' And of course the poor man never close an eye till the sun rise .
` How do you feel this morning ? '
ask the woman , come in on tip-toe when her house-work be finish .
` Oh , bad ; very bad indeed , ' answer he ; ' I have not sleep for a moment .
Can you think of nothing to make me good ? ' '
I will try everything that be possible , ' say the wife , who do not in the least wish her husband to die , but be determine to show that he be more foolish that the other man . '
I will get some dry herb and make you a drink , but I be very much afraid that it be too late .
Why do you not tell me before ? ' '
I think perhaps the pain would go off in a day or two ; and , besides , I do not want to make you unhappy , ' answer the man , who be by this time quite sure he have be suffer torture , and have bear them like a hero .
` Of course , if I have have any idea how ill I really be , I should have speak at once . '
` Well , well , I will see what can be do , ' say the wife , ` but talk be not good for you .
Lie still , and keep yourself warm . '
All that day the man lay in bed , and whenever his wife enter the room and ask him , with a shake of the head , how he felt , he always reply that he be get bad .
At last , in the evening , she burst into tear , and when he inquire what be the matter , she sob out : ` Oh , my poor , poor husband , be you really dead ?
I must go to-morrow and order your coffin . '
Now , when the man heard this , a cold shiver run through his body , and all at once he know that he be as well a he have ever be in his life .
` Oh , no , no ! '
he cry , ' I feel quite recover !
Indeed , I think I shall go out to work . '
` You will do no such thing , ' reply his wife .
` Just keep quite quiet , for before the sun rise you will be a dead man . '
The man be very frightened at her word , and lay absolutely still while the undertaker come and measure him for his coffin ; and his wife give order to the gravedigger about his grave .
That even the coffin be send home , and in the morning at nine o'clock the woman put him on a long flannel garment , and call to the undertaker 's men to fasten down the lid and carry him to the grave , where all their friend be wait them .
Just a the body be be place in the ground the other woman 's husband come run up , dress , as far a anyone could see , in no clothes at all .
Everybody burst into shout of laughter at the sight of him , and the men lay down the coffin and laugh too , till their side nearly split .
The dead man be so astonish at this behaviour , that he peep out of a little window in the side of the coffin , and cry out : ' I should laugh as loudly a any of you , if I be not a dead man . '
When they hear the voice come from the coffin the other people suddenly stop laugh , and stand a if they have be turn into stone .
Then they rush with one accord to the coffin , and lift the lid so that the man could step out amongst them .
` Were you really not dead after all ? '
ask they .
` And if not , why do you let yourself be bury ? '
At this the wife both confess that they have each wish to prove that her husband be stupid than the other .
But the villager declare that they could not decide which be the most foolish -- the man who allow himself to be persuade that he be wear fine clothes when he be dress in nothing , or the man who let himself be bury when he be alive and well .
So the woman quarrel just as much a they do before , and no one ever know whose husband be the most foolish .
-LSB- Adapted from the Neuislandische Volksmarchen . -RSB-
Asmund and Signy Long , long ago , in the day when fairy , witch , giant and ogre still visit the earth , there live a king who reign over a great and beautiful country .
He be marry to a wife whom he dearly love , and have two most promising child -- a son call Asmund , and a daughter who be name Signy .
The king and queen be very anxious to bring their child up well , and the young prince and princess be teach everything likely to make them clever and accomplish .
They live at home in their father 's palace , and he spar no pain to make their life happy .
Prince Asmund dearly love all outdoor sport and an open-air life , and from his early childhood he have long to live entirely in the forest close by .
After many argument and entreaty he succeed in persuade the king to give him two great oak tree for his very own .
` Now , ' say he to his sister , ' I will have the tree hollow out , and then I will make room in them and furnish them so that I shall be able to live out in the forest . '
` Oh , Asmund ! '
exclaim Signy , ` what a delightful idea !
Do let me come too , and live in one of your tree .
I will bring all my pretty thing and ornament , and the tree be so near home we shall be quite safe in them . '
Asmund , who be extremely fond of his sister , readily consent , and they have a very happy time together , carry over all their pet treasure , and Signy 's jewel and other ornament , and arrange them in the pretty little room inside the tree .
Unfortunately sad day be to come .
A war with another country break out , and the king have to lead his army against their enemy .
During his absence the queen fell ill , and after linger for some time she die , to the great grief of her child .
They make up their mind to live altogether for a time in their tree , and for this purpose they have provision enough store up inside to last them a year .
Now , I must tell you , in another country a long way off , there reign a king who have an only son name Ring .
Prince Ring have hear so much about the beauty and goodness of Princess Signy that he determine to marry her if possible .
So he beg his father to let him have a ship for the voyage , set sail with a favourable wind , and after a time land in the country where Signy live .
The prince lose no time in set out for the royal palace , and on his way there he meet such a wonderfully lovely woman that he felt he have never see such beauty in all his life .
He stop her and at once ask who she be . '
I be Signy , the king 's daughter , ' be the reply .
Then the prince inquire why she be wander about all by herself , and she tell him that since her mother 's death she be so sad that whilst her father be away she prefer be alone .
Ring be quite deceive by her , and never guess that she be not Princess Signy at all , but a strong , gigantic , wicked witch bent on deceive him under a beautiful shape .
He confide to her that he have travel all the way from his own country for her sake , have fall in love with the account he have heard of her beauty , and he then and there ask her to be his wife .
The witch listen to all he say and , much pleased , end by accept his offer ; but she beg him to return to his ship for a little while a she wish to go some way far into the forest , promise to join him later on .
Prince Ring do a she wish and go back to his ship to wait , whilst she walk on into the forest till she reach the two oak tree .
Here she resume her own gigantic shape , tear up the tree by their root , throw one of them over her back and clasp the other to her breast , carry them down to the shore and wad out with them to the ship .
She take care not to be notice a she reach the ship , and directly she get on board she once more changed to her former lovely appearance and tell the prince that her luggage be now all on board , and that they need wait for nothing more .
The prince give order to set sail at once , and after a fine voyage land in his own country , where his parent and his only sister receive him with the great joy and affection .
The false Signy be also very kindly welcome .
A beautiful house be get ready for her , and Prince Ring have the two oak plant in the garden just in front of her window so that she might have the pleasure of see them constantly .
He often go to visit the witch , whom he believe to be Princess Signy , and one day he ask : ` Do n't you think we might be marry before long ? '
` Yes , ' say she , quite pleased , ' I be quite ready to marry you whenever you like . '
` Then , ' reply Ring , ` let u decide on this day fortnight .
And see , I have bring you some stuff to make your wedding-dress of . '
So say he give her a large piece of the most beautiful brocade , all woven over with gold thread , and embroider with pearl and other jewel .
The prince have hardly leave her before the witch resume her proper shape and tore about the room , rag and storm and fling the beautiful silk on the floor .
` What be SHE to do with such thing ? '
she roar .
` SHE do not know how to sew or make clothes , and she be sure to die of starvation into the bargain if her brother Ironhead do not come soon and bring her some raw meat and bone , for she really could eat nothing else . '
As she be rave and roar in this frantic manner part of the floor suddenly open and a huge giant rise up carry a great chest in his arm .
The witch be enchant at this sight , and eagerly help her brother to set down and open the chest , which be full of the ghastly food she have be long for .
The horrid pair set to and greedily devour it all , and when the chest be quite empty the giant put it on his shoulder and disappear a he have come , without leave any trace of his visit .
But his sister do not keep quiet for long , and tore and pull at the rich brocade a if she want to destroy it , stamp about and shout angrily .
Now , all this time Prince Asmund and his sister sit in their tree just outside the window and saw all that be go on .
` Dear Signy , ' say Asmund , ` do try to get hold of that piece of brocade and make the clothes yourself , for really we shall have no rest day or night with such a noise . ' '
I will try , ' say Signy ; ` it wo n't be an easy matter , but it 's worth while take some trouble to have a little peace . '
So she watch for an opportunity and manage to carry off the brocade the first time the witch leave her room .
Then she set to work , cut out and sew a best she could , and by the end of six day she have turn it into an elegant robe with a long train and a mantle .
When it be finish she climb to the top of her tree and contrive to throw the clothes on to a table through the open window .
How delight the witch be when she find the clothes all finish !
The next time Prince Ring come to see her she give them to him , and he pay her many compliment on her skilful work , after which he take leave of her in the most friendly manner .
But he have scarcely leave the house when the witch begin to rage as furiously a ever , and never stop till her brother Ironhead appear .
When Asmund saw all these wild doings from his tree he felt he could no longer keep silence .
He go to Prince Ring and say : ` Do come with me and see the strange thing that be happen in the new princess 's room . '
The prince be not a little surprised , but he consent to hide himself with Asmund behind the panelling of the room , from where they could see all that go on through a little slit .
The witch be rave and roar as usual , and say to her brother : ` Once I be marry to the king 's son I shall be good off than now .
I shall take care to have all that pack of courtier put to death , and then I shall send for all my relation to come and live here instead .
I fancy the giant will enjoy themselves very much with me and my husband . '
When Prince Ring heard this he fell into such a rage that he order the house to be set on fire , and it be burn to the ground , with the witch and her brother in it .
Asmund then tell the prince about the two oak tree and take him to see them .
The prince be quite astonish at them and at all their content , but still more so at the extreme beauty of Signy .
He fell in love with her at once , and entreat her to marry him , which , after a time , she consent to do .
Asmund , on his side , ask for the hand of Prince Ring 's sister , which be gladly grant him , and the double wedding be celebrate with great rejoicing .
After this Prince Asmund and his bride return to his country to live with the king his father .
The two couple often meet , and live happily for many , many year .
And that be the end of the story .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Rubezahl Over all the vast under-world the mountain Gnome Rubezahl be lord ; and busy enough the care of his dominion keep him .
There be the endless treasure chamber to be go through , and the host of gnome to be keep to their task .
Some build strong barrier to hold back the fiery vapour to change dull stone to precious metal , or be hard at work fill every cranny of the rock with diamond and ruby ; for Rubezahl love all pretty thing .
Sometimes the fancy would take him to leave those gloomy region , and come out upon the green earth for a while , and bask in the sunshine and hear the bird sing .
And a gnome live many hundred of year he saw strange thing .
For , the first time he come up , the great hill be cover with thick forest , in which wild animal roam , and Rubezahl watch the fierce fight between bear and bison , or chase the grey wolves , or amuse himself by roll great rock down into the desolate valley , to hear the thunder of their fall echoing among the hill .
But the next time he venture above ground , what be his surprise to find everything changed !
The dark wood be hewn down , and in their place appear blossoming orchard surround cosy-looking thatch cottage ; for every chimney the blue smoke curl peacefully into the air , sheep and ox fed in the flowery meadow , while from the shade of the hedge come the music of the shepherd 's pipe .
The strangeness and pleasantness of the sight so delight the gnome that he never think of resent the intrusion of these unexpected guest , who , without say ` by your leave ' or ` with your leave , ' have make themselves so very much at home upon be hill ; nor do he wish to interfere with their doings , but leave them in quiet possession of their home , a a good householder leaf in peace the swallow who have build their nest under his eaves .
He be indeed greatly mind to make friend with this be call ` man , ' so , take the form of an old field labourer , he enter the service of a farmer .
Under his care all the crop flourish exceedingly , but the master prove to be wasteful and ungrateful , and Rubezahl soon leave him , and go to be shepherd to his next neighbour .
He tend the flock so diligently , and know so well where to lead the sheep to the sweetest pasture , and where among the hill to look for any who stray away , that they too prosper under his care , and not one be lose or tear by wolf ; but this new master be a hard man , and begrudge him his well-earned wage .
So he run away and go to serve the judge .
Here he uphold the law with might and main , and be a terror to thief and evildoer ; but the judge be a bad man , who take bribe , and despise the law .
Rubezahl would not be the tool of an unjust man , and so he tell his master , who thereupon order him to be throw in prison .
Of course that do not trouble the gnome at all , he simply get out through the keyhole , and go away down to his underground palace , very much disappoint by his first experience of mankind .
But , a time go on , he forget the disagreeable thing that have happen to him , and think he would take another look at the upper world .
So he steal into the valley , keep himself carefully hide in copse or hedgerow , and very soon meet with an adventure ; for , peep through a screen of leaf , he saw before him a green lawn where stand a charming maiden , fresh a the spring , and beautiful to look upon .
Around her upon the grass lay her young companion , a if they have throw themselves down to rest after some merry game .
Beyond them flow a little brook , into which a waterfall leapt from a high rock , fill the air with it pleasant sound , and make a coolness even in the sultry noontide .
The sight of the maiden so please the gnome that , for the first time , he wish himself a mortal ; and , long for a good view of the gay company , he change himself into a raven and perch upon an oaktree which overhang the brook .
But he soon find that this be not at all a good plan .
He could only see with a raven 's eye , and feel a a raven feel ; and a nest of field-mice at the foot of the tree interest him far more than the sport of the maiden .
When he understand this he fly down again in a great hurry into the thicket , and take the form of a handsome young man -- that be the best way -- and he fell in love with the girl then and there .
The fair maiden be the daughter of the king of the country , and she often wander in the forest with her play fellows gather the wild flower and fruit , till the midday heat drive the merry band to the shady lawn by the brook to rest , or to bathe in the cool water .
On this particular morning the fancy take them to wander off again into the wood .
This be Master Rubezahl 's opportunity .
Stepping out of his hiding-place he stand in the midst of the little lawn , weave his magic spell , till slowly all about him change , and when the maiden return at noon to their favourite resting-place they stand lose in amazement , and almost fancy that they must be dream .
The red rock have become white marble and alabaster ; the stream that murmur and struggle before in it rocky bed , flow in silence now in it smooth channel , from which a clear fountain leapt , to fall again in shower of diamond drop , now on this side now on that , a the wandering breeze scatter it .
Daisies and forget-me-not fringe it brink , while tall hedge of rose and jasmine ring it round , make the sweet and dainty bower imaginable .
To the right and left of the waterfall open out a wonderful grotto , it wall and arch glitter with many-coloured rock-crystals , while in every niche be spread out strange fruit and sweetmeat , the very sight of which make the princess long to taste them .
She hesitate a while , however , scarcely able to believe her eye , and not know if she should enter the enchanted spot or fly from it .
But at length curiosity prevail , and she and her companion explore to their heart 's content , and taste and examine everything , run hither and thither in high glee , and call merrily to each other .
At last , when they be quite weary , the princess cry out suddenly that nothing would content her but to bathe in the marble pool , which certainly do look very inviting ; and they all go gaily to this new amusement .
The princess be ready first , but scarcely have she slip over the rim of the pool when down -- down -- down she sink , and vanish in it depth before her frightened playmate could seize her by so much a a lock of her float golden hair !
Loudly do they weep and wail , run about the brink of the pool , which look so shallow and so clear , but which have swallow up their princess before their eye .
They even spring into the water and try to dive after her , but in vain ; they only float like cork in the enchanted pool , and could not keep under water for a second .
They saw at last that there be nothing for it but to carry to the king the sad tidings of his beloved daughter 's disappearance .
And what great weeping and lamentation there be in the palace when the dreadful news be tell !
The king tear his robe , dash his golden crown from his head , and hide his face in his purple mantle for grief and anguish at the loss of the princess .
After the first outburst of wailing , however , he take heart and hurry off to see for himself the scene of this strange adventure , think , a people will in sorrow , that there might be some mistake after all .
But when he reach the spot , behold , all be change again !
The glittering grotto describe to him by the maiden have completely vanish , and so have the marble bath , the bower of jasmine ; instead , all be a tangle of flower , a it have be of old .
The king be so much perplexed that he threaten the princess 's playfellow with all sort of punishment if they would not confess something about her disappearance ; but a they only repeat the same story he presently put down the whole affair to the work of some sprite or goblin , and try to console himself for his loss by order a grand hunt ; for king can not bear to be trouble about anything long .
Meanwhile the princess be not at all unhappy in the palace of her elfish lover .
When the water-nymphs , who be hide in readiness , have catch her and drag her out of the sight of her terrified maiden , she herself have not have time to be frighten .
They swim with her quickly by strange underground way to a palace so splendid that her father 's seem but a poor cottage in comparison with it , and when she recover from her astonishment she find herself seat upon a couch , wrap in a wonderful robe of satin fasten with a silken girdle , while beside her knelt a young man who whisper the sweet speech imaginable in her ear .
The gnome , for he it be , tell her all about himself and his great underground kingdom , and presently lead her through the many room and hall of the palace , and show her the rare and wonderful thing display in them till she be fairly dazzle at the sight of so much splendour .
On three side of the castle lay a lovely garden with mass of gay , sweet flower , and velvet lawns all cool and shady , which please the eye of the princess .
The fruit tree be hang with golden and rosy apple , and nightingale sing in every bush , a the gnome and the princess wander in the leafy alley , sometimes gaze at the moon , sometimes pause to gather the rare flower for her adornment .
And all the time he be think to himself that never , during the hundred of year he have live , have he see so charm a maiden .
But the princess felt no such happiness ; in spite of all the magic delight around her she be sad , though she try to seem content for fear of displease the gnome .
However , he soon perceive her melancholy , and in a thousand way strive to dispel the cloud , but in vain .
At last he say to himself : ` Men be sociable creature , like bee or ant .
Doubtless this lovely mortal be pin for company .
Who be there I can find for her to talk to ? '
Thereupon he hasten into the near file and dig up a dozen or so of different root -- carrot , turnip , and radish -- and lay them carefully in an elegant basket bring them to the princess , who sit pensive in the shade of the rose-bower .
` Loveliest daughter of earth , ' say the gnome , ` banish all sorrow ; no more shall you be lonely in my dwelling .
In this basket be all you need to make this spot delightful to you .
Take this little many-coloured wand , and with a touch give to each root the form you desire to see . '
With this he leave her , and the princess , without an instant 's delay , open the basket , and touch a turnip , cry eagerly : ` Brunhilda , my dear Brunhilda !
come to me quickly ! '
And sure enough there be Brunhilda , joyfully hug and kiss her beloved princess , and chatter as gaily a in the old day .
This sudden appearance be so delightful that the princess could hardly believe her own eye , and be quite beside herself with the joy of have her dear playfellow with her once more .
Hand in hand they wander about the enchanted garden , and gather the golden apple from the tree , and when they be tire of this amusement the princess lead her friend through all the wonderful room of the palace , until at last they come to the one in which be keep all the marvellous dress and ornament the gnome have give to his hoped-for bride .
There they find so much to amuse them that the hour pass like minute .
Veils , girdle , and necklace be try on and admire , the imitation Brunhilda know so well how to behave herself , and show so much taste that nobody would ever have suspect that she be nothing but a turnip after all .
The gnome , who have secretly be keep an eye upon them , be very pleased with himself for have so well understood the heart of a woman ; and the princess seem to him even more charming than before .
She do not forget to touch the rest of the root with her magic wand , and soon have all her maiden about her , and even , a she have two tiny radish to spare , her favourite cat , and her little dog whose name be Beni .
And now all go cheerfully in the castle .
The princess give to each of the maiden her task , and never be mistress good serve .
For a whole week she enjoy the delight of her pleasant company undisturbed .
They all sing , they dance , they play from morning to night ; only the princess notice that day by day the fresh young face of her maiden grow pale and wan , and the mirror in the great marble hall show her that she alone still keep her rosy bloom , while Brunhilda and the rest fade visibly .
They assure her that all be well with them ; but , nevertheless , they continue to waste away , and day by day it become hard to them to take part in the game of the princess , till at last , one fine morning , when the princess start from bed and hasten out to join her gay playfellow , she shudder and start back at the sight of a group of shrivelled crone , with bent back and tremble limb , who support their tottering step with stave and crutch , and cough dismally .
A little nearer to the hearth lay the once frolicsome Beni , with all four foot stretch stiffly out , while the sleek cat seem too weak to raise his head from his velvet cushion .
The horrified princess flee to the door to escape from the sight of this mournful company , and call loudly for the gnome , who appear at once , humbly anxious to do her bidding .
` Malicious Sprite , ' she cry , ` why do you begrudge me my playmate -- the great delight of my lonely hour ?
Is n't this solitary life in such a desert bad enough without your turn the castle into a hospital for the age ?
Give my maiden back their youth and health this very minute , or I will never love you ! '
` Sweetest and fair of damsel , ' cry the gnome , ` do not be angry ; everything that be in my power I will do -- but do not ask the impossible .
So long a the sap be fresh in the root the magic staff could keep them in the form you desire , but a the sap dry up they wither away .
But never trouble yourself about that , dearest one , a basket of fresh turnip will soon set matter right , and you can speedily call up again every form you wish to see .
The great green patch in the garden will prove you with a more lively company . '
So say the gnome take himself off .
And the princess with her magic wand touch the wrinkled old woman , and leave them the withered root they really be , to be throw upon the rubbish heap ; and with light foot skip off across to the meadow to take possession of the freshly fill basket .
But to her surprise she could not find it anywhere .
Up and down the garden she search , spy into every corner , but not a sign of it be to be find .
By the trellis of grape vine she meet the gnome , who be so much embarrass at the sight of her that she become aware of his confusion while he be still quite a long way off .
` You be try to tease me , ' she cry , as soon a she saw him .
` Where have you hide the basket ?
I have be look for it at least an hour . '
` Dear queen of my heart , ' answer he , ' I pray you to forgive my carelessness .
I promise more than I could perform .
I have seek all over the land for the root you desire ; but they be gather in , and lie dry in musty cellar , and the field be bare and desolate , for below in the valley winter reign , only here in your presence spring be hold fast , and wherever your foot be set the gay flower bloom .
Have patience for a little , and then without fail you shall have your puppet to play with . '
Almost before the gnome have finish , the disappointed princess turn away , and march off to her own apartment , without deign to answer him .
The gnome , however , set off above ground as speedily a possible , and disguise himself a a farmer , buy an as in the near market-town , and bring it back load with sack of turnip , carrot , and radish seed .
With this he sow a great field , and send a vast army of his goblin to watch and tend it , and to bring up the fiery river from the heart of the earth near enough to warm and encourage the sprouting seed .
Thus foster they grow and flourish marvellously , and promise a goodly crop .
The princess wander about the field day by day , no other plant or fruit in all her wonderful garden please her as much a these root ; but still her eye be full of discontent .
And , best of all , she love to while away the hour in a shady fir-wood , seat upon the bank of a little stream , into which she would cast the flower she have gather and watch them float away .
The gnome try hard by every mean in his power to please the princess and win her love , but little do he guess the real reason of his lack of success .
He imagine that she be too young and inexperienced to care for him ; but that be a mistake , for the truth be that another image already fill her heart .
The young Prince Ratibor , whose land join her father 's , have win the heart of the princess ; and the lover have be look forward to the come of their wedding-day when the bride 's mysterious disappearance take place .
The sad news drive Ratibor distract , and a the day go on , and nothing could be hear of the princess , he forsake his castle and the society of men , and spend his day in the wild forest , roam about and cry her name aloud to the tree and rock .
Meanwhile , the maiden , in her gorgeous prison , sigh in secret over her grief , not wish to arouse the gnome 's suspicion .
In her own mind she be wonder if by any mean she might escape from her captivity , and at last she hit upon a plan .
By this time spring once more reigned in the valley , and the gnome send the fire back to their place in the deep of the earth , for the root which they have keep warm through all the cruel winter hand now come to their full size .
Day by day the princess pull up some of them , and make experiment with them , conjure up now this longed-for person , and now that , just for the pleasure of see them a they appear ; but she really have another purpose in view .
One day she change a tiny turnip into a bee , and send him off to bring her some news of her lover .
` Fly , dear little bee , towards the east , ' say she , ` to my beloved Ratibor , and softly hum into his ear that I love him only , but that I be a captive in the gnome 's palace under the mountain .
Do not forget a single word of my greeting , and bring me back a message from my beloved . '
So the bee spread his shining wing and fly away to do a he be bidden ; but before he be out of sight a greedy swallow make a snatch at him , and to the great grief of the princess her messenger be eat up then and there .
After that , by the power of the wonderful wand she summon a cricket , and teach him this greeting : ` Hop , little cricket , to Ratibor , and chirp in his ear that I love him only , but that I be hold captive by the gnome in his palace under the mountain . '
So the cricket hop off gaily , determine to do his best to deliver his message ; but , ala !
a long-legged stork who be prance along the same road catch him in her cruel beak , and before he could say a word he have disappear down her throat .
These two unlucky venture do not prevent the princess from try once more .
This time she change the turnip into a magpie .
` Flutter from tree to tree , chatter bird , ' say she , 'till you come to Ratibor , my love .
Tell him that I be a captive , and bid him come with horse and men , the third day from this , to the hill that rise from the Thorny Valley . '
The magpie listen , hop awhile from branch to branch , and then dart away , the princess watch him anxiously as far a she could see .
Now Prince Ratibor be still spend his life in wander about the wood , and not even the beauty of the spring could soothe his grief .
One day , a he sit in the shade of an oak tree , dreaming of his lost princess , and sometimes cry her name aloud , he seem to hear another voice reply to his , and , start up , he gaze around him , but he could see no one , and he have just make up his mind that he must be mistake , when the same voice call again , and , look up sharply , he saw a magpie which hop to and fro among the twig .
Then Ratibor hear with surprise that the bird be indeed call him by name .
` Poor chatterpie , ' say he ; ` who teach you to say that name , which belong to an unlucky mortal who wish the earth would open and swallow up him and his memory for ever ? '
Thereupon he catch up a great stone , and would have hurl it at the magpie , if it have not at that moment utter the name of the princess .
This be so unexpected that the prince 's arm fell helplessly to his side at the sound , and he stand motionless .
But the magpie in the tree , who , like all the rest of his family , be not happy unless he could be for ever chatter , begin to repeat the message the princess have teach him ; and as soon a he understand it , Prince Ratibor 's heart be file with joy .
All his gloom and misery vanish in a moment , and he anxiously question the welcome messenger a to the fate of the princess .
But the magpie know no more than the lesson he have learn , so he soon flutter away ; while the prince hurry back to his castle to gather together a troop of horseman , full of courage for whatever might befall .
The princess meanwhile be craftily pursue her plan of escape .
She leave off treat the gnome with coldness and indifference ; indeed , there be a look in her eye which encourage him to hope that she might some day return his love , and the idea please him mightily .
The next day , as soon a the sun rise , she make her appearance deck a a bride , in the wonderful robe and jewel which the fond gnome have prepare for her .
Her golden hair be braid and crown with myrtle blossom , and her flow veil sparkle with gem .
In these magnificent garment she go to meet the gnome upon the great terrace .
` Loveliest of maiden , ' he stammer , bow low before her , ` let me gaze into your dear eye , and read in them that you will no longer refuse my love , but will make me the happy be the sun shin upon . '
So say he would have draw aside her veil ; but the princess only hold it more closely about her .
` Your constancy have overcome me , ' she say ; ' I can no longer oppose your wish .
But believe my word , and suffer this veil still to hide my blush and tear . '
` Why tear , beloved one ? '
cry the gnome anxiously ; ` every tear of yours fall upon my heart like a drop of molten gold .
Greatly a I desire your love , I do not ask a sacrifice . '
` Ah ! '
cry the false princess , ` why do you misunderstand my tear ?
My heart answer to your tenderness , and yet I be fearful .
A wife can not always charm , and though YOU will never alter , the beauty of mortal be a a flower that fade .
How can I be sure that you will always be a loving and charming a you be now ? '
` Ask some proof , sweetheart , ' say he .
` Put my obedience and my patience to some test by which you can judge of my unalterable love . '
` Be it so , ' answer the crafty maiden .
` Then give me just one proof of your goodness .
Go !
count the turnip in yonder meadow .
My wedding feast must not lack guest .
They shall provide me with bride-maidens too .
But beware l you deceive me , and do not miss a single one .
That shall be the test of your truth towards me . '
Unwilling a the gnome be to lose sight of his beautiful bride for a moment , he obey her command without delay , and hurry off to begin his task .
He skip along among the turnip as nimble a a grasshopper , and have soon count them all ; but , to be quite certain that he have make no mistake , he think he would just run over them again .
This time , to his great annoyance , the number be different ; so he reckon them for the third time , but now the number be not the same a either of the previous one !
And this be hardly to be wonder at , a his mind be full of the princess 's pretty look and word .
As for the maiden , no sooner be her deluded lover fairly out of sight than she begin to prepare for flight .
She have a fine fresh turnip hide close at hand , which she change into a spirited horse , all saddle and bridle , and , spring upon it back , she gallop away over hill and dale till she reach the Thorny Valley , and fling herself into the arm of her beloved Prince Ratibor .
Meanwhile the toiling gnome go through his task over and over again till his back ache and his head swam , and he could no longer put two and two together ; but a he felt tolerably certain of the exact number of turnip in the field , big and little together , he hurry back eager to prove to his beloved one what a delightful and submissive husband he would be .
He felt very well satisfied with himself a he cross the mossy lawn to the place where he have leave her ; but , ala !
she be no long there .
He search every thicket and path , he look behind every tree , and gaze into every pond , but without success ; then he hasten into the palace and rush from room to room , peer into every hole and corner and call her by name ; but only echo answer in the marble hall -- there be neither voice nor footstep .
Then he begin to perceive that something be amiss , and , throw off the mortal form that encumber him , he fly out of the palace , and soar high into the air , and saw the fugitive princess in the far distance just a the swift horse carry her across the boundary of his dominion .
Furiously do the enraged gnome fling two great cloud together , and hurl a thunderbolt after the fly maiden , splinter the rocky barrier which have stand a thousand year .
But his fury be vain , the thundercloud melt away into a soft mist , and the gnome , after fly about for a while in despair , bewail to the four wind his unhappy fate , go sorrowfully back to the palace , and stole once more through every room , with many sigh and lamentation .
He pass through the garden which for him have lose their charm , and the sight of the princess 's footprint on the golden sand of the pathway renew his grief .
All be lonely , empty , sorrowful ; and the forsaken gnome resolve that he would have no more dealing with such false creature a he have find men to be .
Thereupon he stamp three time upon the earth , and the magic palace , with all it treasure , vanish away into the nothingness out of which he have call it ; and the gnome flee once more to the depth of his underground kingdom .
While all this be happen , Prince Ratibor be hurry away with his prize to a place of safety .
With great pomp and triumph he restore the lovely princess to her father , and be then and there married to her , and take her back with him to his own castle .
But long after she be dead , and her child too , the villager would tell the tale of her imprisonment underground , a they sit carve wood in the winter night .
-LSB- Volksmahrchen der Deutschen . -RSB-
Story Of The King Who Would Be Stronger Than Fate Once upon a time , far away in the east country , there live a king who love hunt so much that , when once there be a deer in sight , he be careless of his own safety .
Indeed , he often become quite separate from his noble and attendant , and in fact be particularly fond of lonely adventure .
Another of his favourite amusement be to give out that he be not well , and could not be see ; and then , with the knowledge only of his faithful Grand Wazeer , to disguise himself a a pedlar , load a donkey with cheap ware , and travel about .
In this way he find out what the common people say about him , and how his judge and governor fulfil their duty .
One day his queen present him with a baby daughter as beautiful a the dawn , and the king himself be so happy and delight that , for a whole week , he forget to hunt , and spend the time in public and private rejoicing .
Not long afterwards , however , he go out after some deer which be to be find in a far corner of his forest .
In the course of the beat his dog disturb a beautiful snow-white stag , and directly he saw it the king determine that he would have it at any cost .
So he put the spur to his horse , and follow it as hard a he could gallop .
Of course all his attendant follow at the best speed that they could manage ; but the king be so splendidly mount , and the stag be so swift , that , at the end of an hour , the king find that only his favourite hound and himself be in the chase ; all the rest be far , far behind and out of sight .
Nothing daunt , however , he go on and on , till he perceive that he be enter a valley with great rocky mountain on all side , and that his horse be get very tired and tremble at every stride .
Worse than all evening be already draw on , and the sun would soon set .
In vain have he send arrow after arrow at the beautiful stag .
Every shot fell short , or go wide of the mark ; and at last , just a darkness be set in , he lose sight altogether of the beast .
By this time his horse could hardly move from fatigue , his hound stagger pant along beside him , he be far away amongst mountain where he have never be before , and have quite miss his way , and not a human creature or dwelling be in sight .
All this be very discouraging , but the king would not have mind if he have not lose that beautiful stag .
That trouble him a good deal , but he never worry over what he could not help , so he get down from his horse , slip his arm through the bridle , and lead the animal along the rough path in hope of discover some shepherd 's hut , or , at least , a cave or shelter under some rock , where he might pass the night .
Presently he hear the sound of rush water , and make towards it .
He toil over a steep rocky shoulder of a hill , and there , just below him , be a stream dash down a precipitous glen , and , almost beneath his foot , twinkle and flicker from the level of the torrent , be a dim light a of a lamp .
Towards this light the king with his horse and hound make his way , slide and stumble down a steep , stony path .
At the bottom the king find a narrow grassy ledge by the brink of the stream , across which the light from a rude lantern in the mount of a cave shed a broad beam of uncertain light .
At the edge of the stream sit an old hermit with a long white beard , who neither speak nor move a the king approach , but sit throw into the stream dry leave which lay scatter about the ground near him .
` Peace be upon you , ' say the king , give the usual country salutation .
` And upon you peace , ' answer the hermit ; but still he never look up , nor stop what he be do .
For a minute or two the king stand watch him .
He notice that the hermit throw two leaf in at a time , and watch them attentively .
Sometimes both be carry rapidly down by the stream ; sometimes only one leaf be carry off , and the other , after whirl slowly round and round on the edge of the current , would come circle back on an eddy to the hermit 's foot .
At other time both leaf be hold in the backward eddy , and fail to reach the main current of the noisy stream .
` What be you do ? '
ask the king at last , and the hermit reply that he be read the fate of men ; every one 's fate , he say , be settle from the beginning , and , whatever it be , there be no escape from it .
The king laugh . '
I care little , ' he say , ` what my fate may be ; but I should be curious to know the fate of my little daughter . ' '
I can not say , ' answer the hermit .
` Do you not know , then ? '
demand the king . '
I might know , ' return the hermit , ` but it be not always wisdom to know much . '
But the king be not content with this reply , and begin to press the old man to say what he know , which for a long time he would not do .
At last , however , the king urge him so greatly that he say : ` The king 's daughter will marry the son of a poor slave-girl call Puruna , who belong to the king of the land of the north .
There be no escape from Fate . '
The king be wild with anger at hear these word , but he be also very tired ; so he only laugh , and answer that he hop there would be a way out of THAT fate anyhow .
Then he ask if the hermit could shelter him and his beast for the night , and the hermit say ` Yes ' ; so , very soon the king have water and tether his horse , and , after a supper of bread and parch pea , lay down in the cave , with the hound at his foot , and try to go to sleep .
But instead of sleep he only lay awake and thought of the hermit 's prophecy ; and the more he think of it the angrier he felt , until he gnash his teeth and declare that it should never , never come true .
Morning come , and the king get up , pale and sulky , and , after learn from the hermit which path to take , be soon mount and find his way home without much difficulty .
Directly he reach his palace he write a letter to the king of the land of the north , beg him , a a favour , to sell him his slave girl Puruna and her son , and say that , if he consent , he would send a messenger to receive them at the river which divide the kingdom .
For five day he await the reply , and hardly sleep or ate , but be as cross a could be all the time .
On the fifth day his messenger return with a letter to say that the king of the land of the north would not sell , but he would give , the king the slave girl and her son .
The king be overjoy .
He send for his Grand Wazeer and tell him that he be go on one of his lonely expedition , and that the Wazeer must invent some excuse to account for his absence .
Next he disguise himself a an ordinary messenger , mount a swift camel , and speed away to the place where the slave girl be to be hand over to him .
When he get there he give the messenger who bring her a letter of thanks and a handsome present for their master and reward for themselves ; and then without delay he take the poor woman and her tiny baby-boy up on to his camel and ride off to a wild desert .
After rid for a day and a night , almost without stopping , he come to a great cave where he make the woman dismount , and , take her and the baby into the cave , he draw his sword and with one blow chop her head off .
But although his anger make him cruel enough for anything so dreadful , the king felt that he could not turn his great sword on the helpless baby , who he be sure must soon die in this solitary place without it mother ; so he leave it in the cave where it be , and , mount his camel , rode home a fast a he could .
Now , in a small village in his kingdom there live an old widow who have no child or relation of any kind .
She make her live mostly by sell the milk of a flock of goat ; but she be very , very poor , and not very strong , and often use to wonder how she would live if she get too weak or ill to attend to her goat .
Every morning she drive the goat out into the desert to graze on the shrub and bush which grow there , and every evening they come home of themselves to be milk and to be shut up safely for the night .
One even the old woman be astonish to find that her very best nanny-goat return without a drop of milk .
She think that some naughty boy or girl be play a trick upon her and have catch the goat on it way home and steal all the milk .
But when evening after even the goat remain almost dry she determine to find out who the thief be .
So the next day she follow the goat at a distance and watch them while they graze .
At length , in the afternoon , the old woman notice this particular nanny-goat steal off by herself away from the herd and she at once go after her .
On and on the goat walk for some way , and then disappear into a cave in the rock .
The old woman follow the goat into the cave and then , what should she see but the animal give her milk to a little boy-baby , whilst on the ground near by lay the sad remains of the baby 's dead mother !
Wondering and frighten , the old woman think at last that this little baby might be a son to her in her old age , and that he would grow up and in time to come be her comfort and support .
So she carry home the baby to her hut , and next day she take a spade to the cave and dig a grave where she bury the poor mother .
Years pass by , and the baby grow up into a find handsome lad , as daring a he be beautiful , and as industrious a he be brave .
One day , when the boy , whom the old woman have name Nur Mahomed , be about seventeen year old , he be come from his day 's work in the field , when he saw a strange donkey eat the cabbage in the garden which surround their little cottage .
Seizing a big stick , he begin to beat the intruder and to drive him out of his garden .
A neighbour passing by call out to him -- ` Hi !
I say !
why be you beat the pedlar 's donkey like that ? '
` The pedlar should keep him from eat my cabbage , ' say Nur Mahomed ; ` if he come this evening here again I 'll cut off his tail for him ! '
Whereupon he go off indoors , whistle cheerfully .
It happen that this neighbour be one of those people who make mischief by talk too much ; so , meet the pedlar in the ` serai , ' or inn , that evening , he tell him what have occur , and add : ` Yes ; and the young spitfire say that if beat the donkey would not do , he would beat you also , and cut your nose off for a thief ! '
A few day later , the pedlar have move on , two men appear in the village inquiring who it be who have threaten to ill-treat and to murder an innocent pedlar .
They declare that the pedlar , in fear of his life , have complain to the king ; and that they have be send to bring the lawless person who have say these thing before the king himself .
Of course they soon find out about the donkey eat Nur Mahomed 's cabbage , and about the young man 's hot word ; but although the lad assure them that he have never say anything about murder anyone , they reply they be order to arrest him , and bring him to take his trial before the king .
So , in spite of his protest , and the wail of his mother , he be carry off , and in due time bring before the king .
Of course Nur Mahomed never guess that the suppose pedlar happen to have be the king himself , although nobody know it .
But a he be very angry at what he have be told , he declare that he be go to make an example of this young man , and intend to teach him that even poor travel pedlar could get justice in HIS country , and be protect from such lawlessness .
However , just a he be go to pronounce some very heavy sentence , there be a stir in the court , and up come Nur Mahomed 's old mother , weep and lamenting , and beg to be hear .
The king order her to speak , and she begin to plead for the boy , declare how good he be , and how he be the support of her old age , and if he be put in prison she would die .
The king ask her who she be .
She reply that she be his mother .
` His mother ? '
say the king ; ` you be too old , surely , to have so young a son ! '
Then the old woman , in her fright and distress , confess the whole story of how she find the baby , and how she rescue and bring him up , and end by beseech the king for mercy .
It be easy to guess how , a the story come out , the king look blacker and blacker , and more and more grim , until at last he be half fainting with rage and astonishment .
This , then , be the baby he have leave to die , after cruelly murder his mother !
Surely fate might have spar him this !
He wish he have sufficient excuse to put the boy to death , for the old hermit 's prophecy come back to him as strongly a ever ; and yet the young man have do nothing bad enough to deserve such a punishment .
Everyone would call him a tyrant if he be to give such an order -- in fact , he dare not try it !
At length he collect himself enough to say : -- ` If this young man will enlist in my army I will let him off .
We have need of such a him , and a little discipline will do him good . '
Still the old woman plead that she could not live without her son , and be nearly as terrify at the idea of his become a soldier a she be at the thought of his be put in prison .
But at length the king -- determine to get the youth into his clutch -- pacify her by promise her a pension large enough to keep her in comfort ; and Nur Mahomed , to his own great delight , be duly enrol in the king 's army .
As a soldier Nur Mahomed seem to be in luck .
He be rather surprised , but much pleased , to find that he be always one of those chosen when any difficult or dangerous enterprise be afoot ; and , although he have the narrow escape on some occasion , still , the very desperateness of the situation in which he find himself give him special chance of display his courage .
And a he be also modest and generous , he become a favourite with his officer and his comrade .
Thus it be not very surprising that , before very long , he become enrolled amongst the picked men of the king 's bodyguard .
The fact be , that the king have hop to have get him kill in some fight or another ; but , see that , on the contrary , he thrive on hard knock , he be now determine to try more direct and desperate method .
One day , soon after Nur Mahomed have enter the bodyguard , he be select to be one of the soldier tell off to escort the king through the city .
The procession be march on quite smoothly , when a man , arm with a dagger , rush out of an alley straight towards the king .
Nur Mahomed , who be the near of the guard , throw himself in the way , and receive the stab that have be apparently intend for the king .
Luckily the blow be a hurried one , and the dagger glance on be breastbone , so that , although he receive a severe wound , his youth and strength quickly get the good of it .
The king be , of course , oblige to take some notice of this brave deed , and a a reward make him one of his own attendant .
After this the strange adventure the young man pass through be endless .
Officers of the bodyguard be often send on all sort of secret and difficult errand , and such errand have a curious way of become necessary when Nur Mahomed be on duty .
Once , while he be take a journey , a foot-bridge give way under him ; once he be attack by armed robber ; a rock roll down upon him in a mountain pas ; a heavy stone cop fell from a roof at his foot in a narrow city alley .
Altogether , Nur Mahomed begin to think that , somewhere or other , he have make an enemy ; but he be light-hearted , and the thought do not much trouble him .
He escape somehow every time , and felt amuse rather than anxious about the next adventure .
It be the custom of that city that the officer for the day of the palace guard should receive all his food direct from the king 's kitchen .
One day , when Nur Mahomed 's turn come to be on duty , he be just sit down to a delicious stew that have be send in from the palace , when one of those gaunt , hungry dog , which , in eastern country , run about the street , poke his nose in at the open guard-room door , and look at Nur Mahomed with mouth watering and nostril work .
The kind-hearted young man pick out a lump of meat , go to the door , and throw it outside to him .
The dog pounce upon it , and gulp it down greedily , and be just turn to go , when it stagger , fell , roll over , and die .
Nur Mahomed , who have be lazily watch him , stand still for a moment , then he come back whistle softly .
He gather up the rest of his dinner and carefully wrap it up to carry away and bury somewhere ; and then he send back the empty plate .
How furious the king be when , at the next morning 's durbar , Nur Mahomed appear before him fresh , alert and smile as usual .
He be determine , however , to try once more , and bid the young man come into his presence that even , give order that he be to carry a secret despatch to the governor of a distant province .
` Make your preparation at once , ' add he , ` and be ready to start in the morning .
I myself will deliver you the paper at the last moment . '
Now this province be four or five day ' journey from the palace , and the governor of it be the most faithful servant the king have .
He could be silent a the grave , and pride himself on his obedience .
Whilst he be an old and tried servant of the king 's , his wife have be almost a mother to the young princess ever since the queen have die some year before .
It happen that , a little before this time , the princess have be send away for her health to another remote province ; and whilst she be there her old friend , the governor 's wife , have beg her to come and stay with them as soon a she could .
The princess accept gladly , and be actually stay in the governor 's house at the very time when the king make up his mind to send Nur Mahomed there with the mysterious despatch .
According to order Nur Mahomed present himself early the next morning at the king 's private apartment .
His best horse be saddle , food place in be saddle-bag , and with some money tie up in his waist-band , he be ready to start .
The king hand over to him a seal packet , desire him to give it himself only into the hand of the governor , and to no one else .
Nur Mahomed hide it carefully in his turban , swung himself into the saddle , and five minute later ride out of the city gate , and set out on his long journey .
The weather be very hot ; but Nur Mahomed think that the sooner his precious letter be deliver the good ; so that , by dint of rid most of each night and rest only in the hot part of the day , he find himself , by noon on the third day , approach the town which be his final destination .
Not a soul be to be see anywhere ; and Nur Mahomed , stiff , dry , thirsty , and tire , look longingly over the wall into the garden , and mark the fountain , the green grass , the shady apricot orchard , and giant mulberry tree , and wish he be there .
At length he reach the castle gate , and be at once admit , a he be in the uniform of the king 's bodyguard .
The governor be rest , the soldier say , and could not see him until the evening .
So Nur Mahomed hand over his horse to an attendant , and wander down into the lovely garden he have see from the road , and sit down in the shade to rest himself .
He fling himself on his back and watch the bird twitter and chatter in the tree above him .
Through the branch he could see great patch of sky where the kite wheel and circle incessantly , with shrill whistle cry .
Bees buzz over the flower with a soothe sound , and in a few minute Nur Mahomed be fast asleep .
Every day , through the heat of the afternoon , the governor , and his wife also , use to lie down for two or three hour in their own room , and so , for the matter of that , do most people in the palace .
But the princess , like many other girl , be restless , and prefer to wander about the garden , rather than rest on a pile of soft cushion .
What a torment her stout old attendant and servant sometime think her when she insist on stay awake , and make them chatter or do something , when they could hardly keep their eye open !
Sometimes , however , the princess would pretend to go to sleep , and then , after all her woman have gladly follow her example , she would get up and go out by herself , her veil hanging loosely about her .
If she be discover her old hostess scold her severely ; but the princess only laugh , and do the same thing next time .
This very afternoon the princess have leave all her woman asleep , and , after try in vain to amuse herself indoors , she have slip out into the great garden , and ramble about in all her favourite nook and corner , feel quite safe a there be not a creature to be see .
Suddenly , on turn a corner , she stop in surprise , for before her lay a man fast asleep !
In her hurry she have almost trip over him .
But there he be , a young man , tan and dusty with travel , in the uniform of an officer of the king 's guard .
One of the few fault of this lovely princess be a devouring curiosity , and she live such an idle life that she have plenty of time to be curious .
Out of one of the fold of this young man 's turban there peep the corner of a letter !
She wonder what the letter be -- whom it be for !
She draw her veil a little closer , and stole across on tip-toe and caught hold of the corner of the letter .
Then she pull it a little , and just a little more !
A great big seal come into view , which she saw to be her father 's , and at the sight of it she pause for a minute half ashamed of what she be do .
But the pleasure of take a letter which be not meant for her be more than she could resist , and in another moment it be in her hand .
All at once she remember that it would be death to this poor officer if he lose the letter , and that at all hazard she must put it back again .
But this be not so easy ; and , moreover , the letter in her hand burn her with long to read it , and see what be inside .
She examine the seal .
It be sticky with be expose to the hot sun , and with a very little effort it part from the paper .
The letter be open and she read it !
And this be what be write : ` Behead the messenger who bring this letter secretly and at once .
Ask no question . '
The girl grow pale .
What a shame !
she think .
SHE would not let a handsome young fellow like that be behead ; but how to prevent it be not quite clear at the moment .
Some plan must be invent , and she wish to lock herself in where no one could interrupt her , a might easily happen in the garden .
So she creep softly to her room , and take a piece of paper and write upon it : ` Marry the messenger who bring this letter to the princess openly at once .
Ask no question . '
And even contrive to work the seal off the original letter and to fix them to this , so that no one could tell , unless they examine it closely , that it have ever be open .
Then she slip back , shake with fear and excitement , to where the young officer still lay asleep , thrust the letter into the fold so his turban , and hurry back to her room .
It be do !
Late in the afternoon Nur Mahomed wake , and , make sure that the precious despatch be still safe , go off to get ready for his audience with the governor .
As soon a he be usher into his presence he take the letter from his turban and place it in the governor 's hand accord to order .
When he have read it the governor be certainly a little astonished ; but he be tell in the letter to ` ask no question , ' and he know how to obey order .
He send for his wife and tell her to get the princess ready to be marry at once .
` Nonsense ! '
say his wife , ` what in the world do you mean ? '
` These be the king 's command , ' he answer ; ` go and do a I bid you .
The letter say `` at once , '' and `` ask no question . ''
The marriage , therefore , must take place this evening . '
In vain do his wife urge every objection ; the more she argue , the more determined be her husband . '
I know how to obey order , ' he say , ` and these be as plain a the nose on my face ! '
So the princess be summon , and , somewhat to their surprise , she seem to take the news very calmly ; next Nur Mahomed be inform , and he be greatly startle , but of course he could but be delight at the great and unexpected honour which he think the king have do him .
Then all the castle be turn upside down ; and when the news spread in the town , THAT be turn upside down too .
Everybody run everywhere , and try to do everything at once ; and , in the middle of it all , the old governor go about with his hair stand on end , mutter something about ` obey order . '
And so the marriage be celebrate , and there be a great feast in the castle , and another in the soldier ' barrack , and illumination all over the town and in the beautiful garden .
And all the people declare that such a wonderful sight have never be see , and talk about it to the end of their life .
The next day the governor despatch the princess and her bridegroom to the king , with a troop of horseman , splendidly dress , and he send a mounted messenger on before them , with a letter give the account of the marriage to the king .
When the king get the governor 's letter , he grow so red in the face that everyone think he be go to have apoplexy .
They be all very anxious to know what have happen , but he rush off and lock himself into a room , where he ramp and rave until he be tire .
Then , after awhile , he begin to think he have well make the best of it , especially a the old governor have be clever enough to send him back his letter , and the king be pretty sure that this be in the princess 's handwriting .
He be fond of his daughter , and though she have behave badly , he do not wish to cut HER head off , and he do not want people to know the truth because it would make him look foolish .
In fact , the more he consider the matter , the more he felt that he would be wise to put a good face on it , and to let people suppose that he have really bring about the marriage of his own free will .
So , when the young couple arrive , the king receive them with all state , and give his son-in-law a province to govern .
Nur Mahomed soon prove himself a able and honourable a governor a he be a brave soldier ; and , when the old king die , he become king in his place , and reign long and happily .
Nur Mahomed 's old mother live for a long time in her ` son 's ' palace , and die in peace .
The princess , his wife , although she have get her husband by a trick , find that she could not trick HIM , and so she never try , but busy herself in teach her child and scold her maid .
As for the old hermit , no trace of him be ever discover ; but the cave be there , and the leaf lie thick in front of it unto this day .
-LSB- Told the writer by an Indian . -RSB-
Story of Wali Dad the Simple-Hearted Once upon a time there live a poor old man whose name be Wali Dad Gunjay , or Wali Dad the Bald .
He have no relation , but live all by himself in a little mud hut some distance from any town , and make his living by cut grass in the jungle , and sell it a fodder for horse .
He only earn by this five halfpenny a day ; but he be a simple old man , and need so little out of it , that he save up one halfpenny daily , and spend the rest upon such food and clothing a he require .
In this way he live for many year until , one night , he think that he would count the money he have hide away in the great earthen pot under the floor of his hut .
So he set to work , and with much trouble he pull the bag out on to the floor , and sit gaze in astonishment at the heap of coin which tumble out of it .
What should he do with them all ?
he wonder .
But he never think of spend the money on himself , because he be content to pass the rest of his day a he have be do for ever so long , and he really have no desire for any great comfort or luxury .
At last he throw all the money into an old sack , which he push under his bead , and then , roll in his ragged old blanket , he go off to sleep .
Early next morning he stagger off with his sack of money to the shop of a jeweller , whom he know in the town , and bargain with him for a beautiful little gold bracelet .
With this carefully wrap up in his cotton waistband he go to the house of a rich friend , who be a travelling merchant , and use to wander about with his camel and merchandise through many country .
Wali Dad be lucky enough to find him at home , so he sit down , and after a little talk he ask the merchant who be the most virtuous and beautiful lady he have ever meet with .
The merchant reply that the princess of Khaistan be renowned everywhere as well for the beauty of her person a for the kindness and generosity of her disposition .
` Then , ' say Wali Dad , ` next time you go that way , give her this little bracelet , with the respectful compliment of one who admire virtue far more than he desire wealth . '
With that he pull the bracelet from his waistband , and hand it to his friend .
The merchant be naturally much astonish , but say nothing , and make no objection to carry out his friend 's plan .
Time pass by , and at length the merchant arrive in the course of his travel at the capital of Khaistan .
As soon a he have opportunity he present himself at the palace , and send in the bracelet , neatly pack in a little perfumed box provide by himself , give at the same time the message entrust to him by Wali Dad .
The princess could not think who could have bestow this present on her , but she bid her servant to tell the merchant that if he would return , after he have finish his business in the city , she would give him her reply .
In a few day , therefore , the merchant come back , and receive from the princess a return present in the shape of a camel-load or rich silk , besides a present of money for himself .
With these he set out on his journey .
Some month later he get home again from his journeying , and proceed to take Wali Dad the princess 's present .
Great be the perplexity of the good man to find a camel-load of silk tumble at his door !
What be he to do with these costly thing ?
But , presently , after much thought , he beg the merchant to consider whether he do not know of some young prince to whom such treasure might be useful .
` Of course , ' cry the merchant , greatly amuse ; ` from Delhi to Baghdad , and from Constantinople to Lucknow , I know them all ; and there live none worthy than the gallant and wealthy young prince of Nekabad . '
` Very well , then , take the silk to him , with the blessing of an old man , ' say Wali Dad , much relieve to be rid of them .
So , the next time that the merchant journey that way he carry the silk with him , and in due course arrive at Nekabad , and seek an audience of the prince .
When he be show into his presence he produce the beautiful gift of silk that Wali Dad have send , and beg the young man to accept them a a humble tribute to his worth and greatness .
The prince be much touch by the generosity of the giver , and order , a a return present , twelve of the fine breed of horse for which his country be famous to be deliver over to the merchant , to whom also , before he take his leave , he give a munificent reward for his service .
As before , the merchant at last arrive at home ; and next day , he set out for Wali Dad 's house with the twelve horse .
When the old man saw them come in the distance he say to himself : ` Here 's luck !
a troop of horse come !
They be sure to want quantity of grass , and I shall sell all I have without have to drag it to market . '
Thereupon he rush off and cut grass a fast he could .
When he get back , with as much grass a he could possibly carry , he be greatly discomfit to find that the horse be all for himself .
At first he could not think what to do with them , but , after a little , a brilliant idea strike him !
He give two to the merchant , and beg him to take the rest to the princess of Khaistan , who be clearly the fit person to possess such beautiful animal .
The merchant depart , laugh .
But , true to his old friend 's request , he take the horse with him on his next journey , and eventually present them safely to the princess .
This time the princess send for the merchant , and question him about the giver .
Now , the merchant be usually a most honest man , but he do not quite like to describe Wali Dad in his true light a an old man whose income be five halfpenny a day , and who have hardly clothes to cover him .
So he tell her that his friend have hear story of her beauty and goodness , and have long to lay the best he have at her foot .
The princess then take her father into her confidence , and beg him to advise her what courtesy she might return to one who persist in make her such present .
` Well , ' say the king , ` you can not refuse them ; so the best thing you can do be to send this unknown friend at once a present so magnificent that he be not likely to be able to send you anything good , and so will be ashamed to send anything at all ! '
Then he order that , in place of each of the ten horse , two mule laden with silver should be return by her .
Thus , in a few hour , the merchant find himself in charge of a splendid caravan ; and he have to hire a number of arm men to defend it on the road against the robber , and he be glad indeed to find himself back again in Wali Dad 's hut .
` Well , now , ' cry Wali Dad , a he view all the wealth laid at his door , ' I can well repay that kind prince for his magnificent present of horse ; but to be sure you have be put to great expense !
Still , if you will accept six mule and their load , and will take the rest straight to Nekabad , I shall thank you heartily . '
The merchant felt handsomely repay for his trouble , and wonder greatly how the matter would turn out .
So he make no difficulty about it ; and as soon a he could get thing ready , he set out for Nekabad with this new and princely gift .
This time the prince , too , be embarrass , and question the merchant closely .
The merchant felt that his credit be at stake , and whilst inwardly determine that he would not carry the joke any further , could not help describe Wali Dad in such glowing term that the old man would never have know himself have he hear them .
The prince , like the king of Khaistan , determine that he would send in return a gift that would be truly royal , and which would perhaps prevent the unknown giver send him anything more .
So he make up a caravan on twenty splendid horse caparison in gold embroider cloth , with fine morocco saddle and silver bridle and stirrup , also twenty camel of the best breed , which have the speed of race-horses , and could swing along at a trot all day without get tire ; and , lastly , twenty elephant , with magnificent silver howdah and covering of silk embroider with pearl .
To take care of these animal the merchant hire a little army of men ; and the troop make a great show a they travel along .
When Wali Dad from a distance saw the cloud of dust which the caravan make , and the glitter of it appointment , he say to himself : ` By Allah !
here 's a grand crowd come !
Elephants , too !
Grass will be sell well to-day ! '
And with that he hurry off to the jungle and cut grass as fast a he could .
As soon a he get back he find the caravan have stop at his door , and the merchant be wait , a little anxiously , to tell him the news and to congratulate him upon his rich .
` Riches ! '
cry Wali Dad , ` what have an old man like me with one foot in the grave to do with rich ?
That beautiful young princess , now !
She 'd be the one to enjoy all these fine thing !
Do you take for yourself two horse , two camel , and two elephant , with all their trapping , and present the rest to her . '
The merchant at first object to these remark , and point out to Wali Dad that he be begin to feel these embassy a little awkward .
Of course he be himself richly repay , so far a expense go ; but still he do not like go so often , and he be get nervous .
At length , however he consent to go once more , but he promise himself never to embark on another such enterprise .
So , after a few day ' rest , the caravan start off once more for Khaistan .
The moment the king of Khaistan saw the gorgeous train of men and beast enter his palace courtyard , he be so amazed that he hurry down in person to inquire about it , and become dumb when he hear that these also be a present from the princely Wali Dad , and be for the princess , his daughter .
He go hastily off to her apartment , and say to her : ' I tell you what it be , my dear , this man want to marry you ; that be the meaning of all these present !
There be nothing for it but that we go and pay him a visit in person .
He must be a man of immense wealth , and a he be so devoted to you , perhaps you might do bad than marry him ! '
The princess agree with all that her father say , and order be issue for vast number of elephant and camel , and gorgeous tent and flag , and litter for the lady , and horse for the men , to be prepare without delay , a the king and princess be go to pay a visit to the great and munificent prince Wali Dad .
The merchant , the king declare , be to guide the party .
The feeling of the poor merchant in this sore dilemma can hardly be imagine .
Willingly would he have run away ; but he be treat with so much hospitality a Wali Dad 's representative , that he hardly get an instant 's real peace , and never any opportunity of slip away .
In fact , after a few day , despair possess him to such a degree that he make up his mind that all that happen be fate , and that escape be impossible ; but he hop devoutly some turn of fortune would reveal to him a way out of the difficulty which he have , with the best intention , draw upon himself .
On the seventh day they all start , amidst thunderous salute from the rampart of the city , and much dust , and cheering , and blaring of trumpet .
Day after day they move on , and every day the poor merchant felt more ill and miserable .
He wonder what kind of death the king would invent for him , and go through almost a much torture , a he lay awake nearly the whole of every night thinking over the situation , a he would have suffer if the king 's executioner be already set to work upon his neck .
At last they be only one day 's march from Wali Dad 's little mud home .
Here a great encampment be make , and the merchant be send on to tell Wali Dad that the King and Princess of Khaistan have arrive and be seek an interview .
When the merchant arrive he find the poor old man eat his even meal of onion and dry bread , and when he tell him of all that have happen he have not the heart to proceed to load him with the reproach which rise to his tongue .
For Wali Dad be overwhelm with grief and shame for himself , for his friend , and for the name and honour of the princess ; and he weep and pluck at his beard , and groan most piteously .
With tear he beg the merchant to detain them for one day by any kind of excuse he could think of , and to come in the morning to discuss what they should do .
As soon a the merchant be go Wali Dad make up his mind that there be only one honourable way out of the shame and distress that he have create by his foolishness , and that be -- to kill himself .
So , without stop to ask any one 's advice , he go off in the middle of the night to a place where the river wound along at the base of steep rocky cliff of great height , and determine to throw himself down and put an end to his life .
When he get to the place he draw back a few pace , take a little run , and at the very edge of that dreadful black gulf he stop short !
He COULD not do it !
From below , unseen in the blackness of the deep night shadow , the water roar and boil round the jagged rock -- he could picture the place a he know it , only ten time more pitiless and forbidding in the visionless darkness ; the wind sough through the gorge with fearsome sigh , and rustling and whispering , and the bush and grass that grow in the ledge of the cliff seem to him like living creature that dance and beckon , shadowy and indistinct .
An owl laugh ` Hoo !
hoo ! '
almost in his face , a he peer over the edge of the gulf , and the old man throw himself back in a perspiration of horror .
He be afraid !
He draw back shudder , and cover his face in his hand he weep aloud .
Presently he be aware of a gentle radiance that shed itself before him .
Surely morning be not already come to hasten and reveal his disgrace !
He take his hand from before his face , and saw before him two lovely being whom his instinct tell him be not mortal , but be Peris from Paradise .
` Why do you weep , old man ? '
say one , in a voice a clear and musical a that of the bulbul . '
I weep for shame , ' reply he .
` What do you here ? '
question the other . '
I come here to die , ' say Wali Dad .
And a they question him , he confess all his story .
Then the first step forward and lay a hand upon his shoulder , and Wali Dad begin to feel that something strange -- what , he do not know -- be happen to him .
His old cotton rag of clothes be change to beautiful linen and embroider cloth ; on his hard , bare foot be warm , soft shoe , and on his head a great jewelled turban .
Round his neck there lay a heavy golden chain , and the little old bent sickle , which he cut grass with , and which hung in his waistband , have turn into a gorgeous scimetar , whose ivory hilt gleam in the pale light like snow in moonlight .
As he stand wonder , like a man in a dream , the other peri wave her hand and bid him turn and see ; and , lo !
before him a noble gateway stand open .
And up an avenue of giant place tree the peri lead him , dumb with amazement .
At the end of the avenue , on the very spot where his hut have stand , a gorgeous palace appear , ablaze with myriad of light .
Its great portico and verandah be occupy by hurry servant , and guard pace to and fro and salute him respectfully a he draw near , along mossy walk and through sweeping grassy lawn where fountain be play and flower scent the air .
Wali Dad stand stunned and helpless .
` Fear not , ' say one of the peri ; ` go to your house , and learn that God reward the simple-hearted . '
With these word they both disappear and leave him .
He walk on , think still that he must be dream .
Very soon he retire to rest in a splendid room , far grand than anything he have ever dream of .
When morning dawn he wake , and find that the palace , and himself , and his servant be all real , and that he be not dream after all !
If he be dumbfound , the merchant , who be usher into his presence soon after sunrise , be much more so .
He tell Wali Dad that he have not sleep all night , and by the first streak of daylight have start to seek out his friend .
And what a search he have have !
A great stretch of wild jungle country have , in the night , be change into park and garden ; and if it have not be for some of Wali Dad 's new servant , who find him and bring him to the palace , he would have flee away under the impression that his trouble have send him crazy , and that all he saw be only imagination .
Then Wali Dad tell the merchant all that have happen .
By his advice he send an invitation to the king and princess of Khaistan to come and be his guest , together with all their retinue and servant , down to the very humble in the camp .
For three night and day a great feast be hold in honour of the royal guest .
Every even the king and his noble be serve on golden plate and from golden cup ; and the small people on silver plate and from silver cup ; and each even each guest be request to keep the place and cup that they have use a a remembrance of the occasion .
Never have anything so splendid be see .
Besides the great dinner , there be sport and hunting , and dance , and amusement of all sort .
On the fourth day the king of Khaistan take his host aside , and ask him whether it be true , a he have suspect , that he wish to marry his daughter .
But Wali Dad , after thank him very much for the compliment , say that he have never dream of so great an honour , and that he be far too old and ugly for so fair a lady ; but he beg the king to stay with him until he could send for the Prince of Nekabad , who be a most excellent , brave , and honourable young man , and would surely be delight to try to win the hand of the beautiful princess .
To this the king agree , and Wali Dad send the merchant to Nekabad , with a number of attendant , and with such handsome present that the prince come at once , fell head over ear in love with the princess , and marry her at Wali Dad 's palace amidst a fresh outburst of rejoicing .
And now the King of Khaistan and the Prince and Princess of Nekabad , each go back to their own country ; and Wali Dad live to a good old age , befriend all who be in trouble and preserving , in his prosperity , the simple-hearted and generous nature that he have when he be only Wali Dad Gunjay , the grass cutter .
-LSB- Told the author by an Indian . -RSB-
Tale of a Tortoise and of a Mischievous Monkey Once upon a time there be a country where the river be large , and the forest deep , than anywhere else .
Hardly any men come there , and the wild creature have it all to themselves , and use to play all sort of strange game with each other .
The great tree , chain one to the other by thick flowering plant with bright scarlet or yellow blossom , be famous hiding-places for the monkey , who could wait unseen , till a puma or an elephant pass by , and then jump on their back and go for a ride , swing themselves up by the creeper when they have have enough .
Near the river huge tortoise be to be find , and though to our eye a tortoise seem a dull , slow thing , it be wonderful to think how clever they be , and how often they outwit many of their lively friend .
There be one tortoise in particular that always manage to get the good of everybody , and many be the tale tell in the forest of his great deed .
They begin when he be quite young , and tire of stay at home with his father and mother .
He leave them one day , and walk off in search of adventure .
In a wide open space surround by tree he meet with an elephant , who be have his supper before take his even bath in the river which run close by .
` Let u see which of u two be strong , ' say the young tortoise , march up to the elephant .
` Very well , ' reply the elephant , much amuse at the impertinence of the little creature ; ` when would you like the trial to be ? '
` In an hour 's time ; I have some business to do first , ' answer the tortoise .
And he hasten away as fast a his short leg would carry him .
In a pool of the river a whale be rest , blow water into the air and make a lovely fountain .
The tortoise , however , be too young and too busy to admire such thing , and he call to the whale to stop , a he want to speak to him .
` Would you like to try which of u be the strong ? '
say he .
The whale look at him , send up another fountain , and answer : ` Oh , yes ; certainly .
When do you wish to begin ?
I be quite ready . '
` Then give me one of your long bone , and I will fasten it to my leg .
When I give the signal , you must pull , and we will see which can pull the hard . '
` Very good , ' reply the whale ; and he take out one of his bone and pass it to the tortoise .
The tortoise pick up the end of the bone in his mouth and go back to the elephant . '
I will fasten this to your leg , ' say he , ` in the same way a it be fasten to mine , and we must both pull as hard a we can .
We shall soon see which be the strong . '
So he wind it carefully round the elephant 's leg , and tie it in a firm knot .
` Now ! '
cry he , plunge into a thick bush behind him .
The whale tug at one end , and the elephant tug at the other , and neither have any idea that he have not the tortoise for his foe .
When the whale pull hard the elephant be drag into the water ; and when the elephant pull the hard the whale be haul on to the land .
They be very evenly match , and the battle be a hard one .
At last they be quite tire , and the tortoise , who be watch , saw that they could play no more .
So he creep from his hiding-place , and dip himself in the river , he go to the elephant and say : ' I see that you really be strong than I think .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
Then he dry himself on some moss and go to the whale and say : ' I see that you really be strong than I think .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
The two adversary be only too glad to be allow to rest , and believe to the end of their day that , after all , the tortoise be strong than either of them .
A day or two later the young tortoise be take a stroll , when he meet a fox , and stop to speak to him .
` Let u try , ' say he in a careless manner , ` which of u can lie bury in the ground during seven year . ' '
I shall be delight , ' answer the fox , ` only I would rather that you begin . '
` It be all the same to me , ' reply the tortoise ; ` if you come round this way to-morrow you will see that I have fulfil my part of the bargain . '
So he look about for a suitable place , and find a convenient hole at the foot of an orange tree .
He creep into it , and the next morning the fox heap up the earth round him , and promise to fee him every day with fresh fruit .
The fox so far keep his word that each morning when the sun rise he appear to ask how the tortoise be get on .
` Oh , very well ; but I wish you would give me some fruit , ' reply he .
` Alas !
the fruit be not ripe enough yet for you to eat , ' answer the fox , who hop that the tortoise would die of hunger long before the seven year be over .
` Oh dear , oh dear !
I be so hungry ! '
cry the tortoise . '
I be sure you must be ; but it will be all right to-morrow , ' say the fox , trot off , not know that the orange drop down the hollow trunk , straight into the tortoise 's hole , and that he have as many a he could possibly eat .
So the seven year go by ; and when the tortoise come out of his hole he be as fat a ever .
Now it be the fox 's turn , and he choose his hole , and the tortoise heap the earth round , promise to return every day or two with a nice young bird for his dinner .
` Well , how be you get on ? '
he would ask cheerfully when he pay his visit .
` Oh , all right ; only I wish you have bring a bird with you , ' answer the fox . '
I have be so unlucky , I have never be able to catch one , ' reply the tortoise .
` However , I shall be more fortunate to-morrow , I be sure . '
But not many to-morrows after , when the tortoise arrive with his usual question : ` Well , how be you get on ? '
he receive no answer , for the fox be lie in his hole quite still , dead of hunger .
By this time the tortoise be grow up , and be look up to throughout the forest a a person to be fear for his strength and wisdom .
But he be not consider a very swift runner , until an adventure with a deer add to his fame .
One day , when he be bask in the sun , a stag pass by , and stop for a little conversation .
` Would you care to see which of u can run fast ? '
ask the tortoise , after some talk .
The stag think the question so silly that he only shrug his shoulder .
` Of course , the victor would have the right to kill the other , ' go on the tortoise .
` Oh , on that condition I agree , ' answer the deer ; ` but I be afraid you be a dead man . '
` It be no use try to frighten me , ' reply the tortoise .
` But I should like three day for training ; then I shall be ready to start when the sun strike on the big tree at the edge of the great clearing . '
The first thing the tortoise do be to call his brother and his cousin together , and he post them carefully under fern all along the line of the great clearing , make a sort of ladder which stretch for many mile .
This do to his satisfaction , he go back to the start place .
The stag be quite punctual , and as soon a the sun 's ray strike the trunk of the tree the stag start off , and be soon far out of the sight of the tortoise .
Every now and then he would turn his head a he run , and call out : ` How be you get on ? '
and the tortoise who happen to be nearest at that moment would answer : ` All right , I be close up to you . '
Full of astonishment , the stag would redouble his effort , but it be no use .
Each time he ask : ` Are you there ? '
the answer would come : ` Yes , of course , where else should I be ? '
And the stag ran , and run , and run , till he could run no more , and drop down dead on the grass .
And the tortoise , when he think about it , laugh still .
But the tortoise be not the only creature of whose trick story be tell in the forest .
There be a famous monkey who be just a clever and more mischievous , because he be so much quicker on his foot and with his hand .
It be quite impossible to catch him and give him the thrashing he so often deserve , for he just swing himself up into a tree and laugh at the angry victim who be sit below .
Sometimes , however , the inhabitant of the forest be so foolish a to provoke him , and then they get the bad of it .
This be what happen to the barber , whom the monkey visit one morning , say that he wish to be shave .
The barber bow politely to his customer , and beg him to be seat , tie a large cloth round his neck , and rub his chin with soap ; but instead of cut off his beard , the barber make a snip at the end of his tail .
It be only a very little bit and the monkey start up more in rage than in pain .
` Give me back the end of my tail , ' he roar , ` or I will take one of your razor . '
The barber refuse to give back the miss piece , so the monkey catch up a razor from the table and run away with it , and no one in the forest could be shave for day , a there be not another to be get for mile and mile .
As he be make his way to his own particular palm-tree , where the cocoanut grow , which be so useful for pelt passer-by , he meet a woman who be scale a fish with a bit of wood , for in this side of the forest a few people live in hut near the river .
` That must be hard work , ' say the monkey , stop to look ; ` try my knife -- you will get on quicker . '
And he hand her the razor a he speak .
A few day later he come back and rap at the door of the hut . '
I have call for my razor , ' he say , when the woman appear . '
I have lose it , ' answer she .
` If you do n't give it to me at once I will take your sardine , ' reply the monkey , who do not believe her .
The woman protest she have not get the knife , so he take the sardine and run off .
A little further along he saw a baker who be stand at the door , eat one of his loaf .
` That must be rather dry , ' say the monkey , ` try my fish ' ; and the man do not need twice tell .
A few day later the monkey stop again at the baker 's hut .
` I 've call for that fish , ' he say .
` That fish ?
But I have eat it ! '
exclaim the baker in dismay .
` If you have eat it I shall take this barrel of meal in exchange , ' reply the monkey ; and he walk off with the barrel under his arm .
As he go he saw a woman with a group of little girls round her , teach them how to dress hair .
` Here be something to make cake for the child , ' he say , put down his barrel , which by this time he find rather heavy .
The child be delight , and run directly to find some flat stone to bake their cake on , and when they have make and eat them , they think they have never taste anything so nice .
Indeed , when they saw the monkey approach not long after , they rush to meet him , hop that he be bring them some more present .
But he take no notice of their question , he only say to their mother : ` I 've call for my barrel of meal . '
` Why , you give it to me to make cake of ! '
cry the mother .
` If I ca n't get my barrel of meal , I shall take one of your child , ' answer the monkey . '
I be in want of somebody who can bake my bread when I be tire of fruit , and who know how to make cocoanut cake . '
` Oh , leave me my child , and I will find you another barrel of meal , ' wept the mother . '
I do n't WANT another barrel , I want THAT one , ' answer the monkey sternly .
And a the woman stand wring her hand , he catch up the little girl that he think the prettiest and take her to his home in the palm tree .
She never go back to the hut , but on the whole she be not much to be pity , for monkey be nearly as good a child to play with , and they teach her how to swing , and to climb , and to fly from tree to tree , and everything else they know , which be a great deal .
Now the monkey 's tiresome trick have make him many enemy in the forest , but no one hat him so much a the puma .
The cause of their quarrel be know only to themselves , but everybody be aware of the fact , and take care to be out of the way when there be any chance of these two meeting .
Often and often the puma have lay trap for the monkey , which he felt sure his foe could not escape ; and the monkey would pretend that he saw nothing , and rejoice the hidden puma 's heart by seem to walk straight into the snare , when , lo !
a loud laugh would be hear , and the monkey 's grinning face would peer out of a mass of creeper and disappear before his foe could reach him .
This state of thing have go on for quite a long while , when at last there come a season such a the old parrot in the forest could never remember .
Instead of two or three hundred inch of rain fall , which they be all accustom to , month after month pass without a cloud , and the river and spring dry up , till there be only one small pool leave for everyone to drink from .
There be not an animal for mile round that do not grieve over this shocking condition of affair , not one at least except the puma .
His only thought for year have be how to get the monkey into his power , and this time he imagine his chance have really arrive .
He would hide himself in a thicket , and when the monkey come down to drink -- and come he must -- the puma would spring out and seize him .
Yes , on this occasion there could be no escape !
And no more there would have be if the puma have have great patience ; but in his excitement he move a little too soon .
The monkey , who be stoop to drink , hear a rustling , and turn catch the gleam of two yellow , murderous eye .
With a mighty spring he grasp a creeper which be hang above him , and land himself on the branch of a tree ; feel the breath of the puma on his foot a the animal bound from be cover .
Never have the monkey be so near death , and it be some time before he recover enough courage to venture on the ground again .
Up there in the shelter of the tree , he begin to turn over in his head plan for escape the snare of the puma .
And at length chance help him .
Peeping down to the earth , he saw a man come along the path carry on his head a large gourd fill with honey .
He wait till the man be just underneath the tree , then he hang from a bough , and catch the gourd while the man look up wondering , for he be no tree-climber .
Then the monkey rub the honey all over him , and a quantity of leaf from a creeper that be hang close by ; he stick them all close together into the honey , so that he look like a walking bush .
This finish , he run to the pool to see the result , and , quite pleased with himself , set out in search of adventure .
Soon the report go through the forest that a new animal have appear from no one knew where , and that when somebody have ask his name , the strange creature have answer that it be Jack-in-the-Green .
Thanks to this , the monkey be allow to drink at the pool as often a he like , for neither beast nor bird have the faint notion who he be .
And if they make any inquiry the only answer they get be that the water of which he have drink deeply have turn his hair into leaf , so that they all know what would happen in case they become too greedy .
By-and-by the great rain begin again .
The river and stream fill up , and there be no need for him to go back to the pool , near the home of his enemy , the puma , a there be a large number of place for him to choose from .
So one night , when everything be still and silent , and even the chatter parrot be asleep on one leg , the monkey steal down softly from his perch , and wash off the honey and the leaf , and come out from his bath in his own proper skin .
On his way to breakfast he meet a rabbit , and stop for a little talk . '
I be feel rather dull , ' he remark ; ' I think it would do me good to hunt a while .
What do you say ? '
` Oh , I be quite willing , ' answer the rabbit , proud of be speak to by such a large creature .
` But the question be , what shall we hunt ? '
` There be no credit in go after an elephant or a tiger , ' reply the monkey stroke his chin , ` they be so big they could not possibly get out of your way .
It show much more skill to be able to catch a small thing that can hide itself in a moment behind a leaf .
I 'll tell you what !
Suppose I hunt butterfly , and you , serpent . '
The rabbit , who be young and without experience , be delight with this idea , and they both set out on their various way .
The monkey quietly climb up the near tree , and eat fruit most of the day , but the rabbit tire himself to death poke his nose into every heap of dried leaf he saw , hop to find a serpent among them .
Luckily for himself the serpent be all away for the afternoon , at a meeting of their own , for there be nothing a serpent like so well for dinner a a nice plump rabbit .
But , a it be , the dried leaf be all empty , and the rabbit at last fell asleep where he be .
Then the monkey , who have be watch him , fell down and pull his ear , to the rage of the rabbit , who vow vengeance .
It be not easy to catch the monkey off his guard , and the rabbit wait long before an opportunity arrive .
But one day Jack-in-the-Green be sit on a stone , wonder what he should do next , when the rabbit crept softly behind him , and give his tail a sharp pull .
The monkey give a shriek of pain , and dart up into a tree , but when he saw that it be only the rabbit who have dare to insult him so , he chatter so fast in his anger , and look so fierce , that the rabbit flee into the near hole , and stay there for several day , tremble with fright .
Soon after this adventure the monkey go away into another part of the country , right on the outskirt of the forest , where there be a beautiful garden full of orange hang ripe from the tree .
This garden be a favourite place for bird of all kind , each hop to secure an orange for dinner , and in order to frighten the bird away and keep a little fruit for himself , the master have fasten a waxen figure on one of the bough .
Now the monkey be a fond of orange a any of the bird , and when he saw a man stand in the tree where the large and sweetest orange grow , he speak to him at once .
` You man , ' he say rudely , ` throw me down that big orange up there , or I will throw a stone at you . '
The wax figure take no notice of this request , so the monkey , who be easily make angry , pick up a stone , and fling it with all his force .
But instead of fall to the ground again , the stone stuck to the soft wax .
At this moment a breeze shake the tree , and the orange on which the monkey have set his heart drop from the bough .
He pick it up and eat it every bit , include the rind , and it be so good he think he should like another .
So he call again to the wax figure to throw him an orange , and a the figure do not move , he hurl another stone , which stick to the wax a the first have do .
Seeing that the man be quite indifferent to stone , the monkey grow more angry still , and climb the tree hastily , give the figure a violent kick .
But like the two stone his leg remain stuck to the wax , and he be hold fast .
` Let me go at once , or I will give you another kick , ' he cry , suit the action to the word , and this time also his foot remain in the grasp of the man .
Not know what he do , the monkey hit out , first with one hand and then with the other , and when he find that he be literally bound hand and foot , he become so mad with anger and terror that in his struggle he fell to the ground , drag the figure after him .
This free his hand and foot , but besides the shock of the fall , they have tumble into a bed of thorn , and he limp away break and bruise , and groan loudly ; for when monkey ARE hurt , they take pain that everybody shall know it .
It be a long time before Jack be well enough to go about again ; but when he do , he have an encounter with his old enemy the puma .
And this be how it come about .
One day the puma invite his friend the stag to go with him and see a comrade , who be famous for the good milk he get from his cow .
The stag love milk , and gladly accept the invitation , and when the sun begin to get a little low the two start on their walk .
On the way they arrive on the bank of a river , and a there be no bridge in those day it be necessary to swim across it .
The stag be not fond of swimming , and begin to say that he be tire , and think that after all it be not worth go so far to get milk , and that he would return home .
But the puma easily saw through these excuse , and laugh at him .
` The river be not deep at all , ' he say ; ` why , you will never be off your foot .
Come , pluck up your courage and follow me . '
The stag be afraid of the river ; still , he be much more afraid of be laugh at , and he plunge in after the puma ; but in an instant the current have sweep him away , and if it have not bear him by accident to a shallow place on the opposite side , where he manage to scramble up the bank , he would certainly have be drown .
As it be , he scramble out , shake with terror , and find the puma wait for him .
` You have a narrow escape that time , ' say the puma .
After rest for a few minute , to let the stag recover from his fright , they go on their way till they come to a grove of banana .
` They look very good , ' observe the puma with a longing glance , ` and I be sure you must be hungry , friend stag ?
Suppose you be to climb the tree and get some .
You shall eat the green one , they be the best and sweet ; and you can throw the yellow one down to me .
I dare say they will do quite well ! '
The stag do a he be bid , though , not be use to climb , it give him a deal of trouble and sore knee , and besides , his horn be continually get entangle in the creeper .
What be bad , when once he have taste the banana , he find them not at all to his liking , so he throw them all down , green and yellow alike , and let the puma take his choice .
And what a dinner he make !
When he have QUITE do , they set forth once more .
The path lay through a field of maize , where several men be work .
As they come up to them , the puma whisper : ` Go on in front , friend stag , and just say `` Bad luck to all worker ! '' '
The stag obey , but the men be hot and tired , and do not think this a good joke .
So they set their dog at him , and he be oblige to run away as fast a he could . '
I hope your industry will be reward a it deserve , ' say the puma a he pass along ; and the men be pleased , and offer him some of their maize to eat .
By-and-by the puma saw a small snake with a beautiful shining skin , lie coil up at the foot of a tree .
` What a lovely bracelet that would make for your daughter , friend stag !
say he .
The stag stoop and pick up the snake , which bite him , and he turn angrily to the puma .
` Why do you not tell me it would bite ? '
he ask .
` Is it my fault if you be an idiot ? '
reply the puma .
At last they reach their journey 's end , but by this time it be late , and the puma 's comrade be ready for bed , so they sling their hammock in convenient place , and go to sleep .
But in the middle of the night the puma rise softly and steal out of the door to the sheep-fold , where he kill and eat the fat sheep he could find , and take a bowl full of it blood , he sprinkle the sleep stag with it .
This do , he return to bed .
In the morning the shepherd go a usual to let the sheep out of the fold , and find one of them miss .
He think directly of the puma , and run to accuse him of have eat the sheep .
` I , my good man ?
What have put it into your head to think of such a thing ?
Have I get any blood about me ?
If anyone have eat a sheep it must be my friend the stag . '
Then the shepherd go to examine the sleeping stag , and of course he saw the blood .
` Ah !
I will teach you how to steal ! '
cry he , and he hit the stag such a blow on his skull that he die in a moment .
The noise awaken the comrade above , and he come downstairs .
The puma greet him with joy , and beg he might have some of the famous milk as soon a possible , for he be very thirsty .
A large bucket be set before the puma directly .
He drink it to the last drop , and then take leave .
On his way home he meet the monkey .
` Are you fond of milk ? '
ask he . '
I know a place where you get it very nice .
I will show you it if you like . '
The monkey know that the puma be not so good-natured for nothing , but he felt quite able to take care of himself , so he say he should have much pleasure in accompany his friend .
They soon reach the same river , and , a before , the puma remark : ` Friend monkey , you will find it very shallow ; there be no cause for fear .
Jump in and I will follow . '
` Do you think you have the stag to deal with ? '
ask the monkey , laugh . '
I should prefer to follow ; if not I shall go no far .
The puma understood that it be useless try to make the monkey do a he wish , so he choose a shallow place and begin to swim across .
The monkey wait till the puma have get to the middle , then he give a great spring and jump on his back , know quite well that the puma would be afraid to shake him off , lest he should be sweep away into deep water .
So in this manner they reach the bank .
The banana grove be not far distant , and here the puma think he would pay the monkey out for force him to carry him over the river .
` Friend monkey , look what fine banana , ' cry he .
` You be fond of climb ; suppose you run up and throw me down a few .
You can eat the green one , which be the nice , and I will be content with the yellow . '
` Very well , ' answer the monkey , swing himself up ; but he eat all the yellow one himself , and only throw down the green one that be leave .
The puma be furious and cry out : ' I will punch your head for that . '
But the monkey only answer : ` If you be gong to talk such nonsense I wo n't walk with you . '
And the puma be silent .
In a few minute more they arrive at the field be the men be reap the maize , and the puma remark a he have do before : ` Friend monkey , if you wish to please these men , just say a you go by : `` Bad luck to all worker . ''
` Very well , ' reply the monkey ; but , instead , he nod and smile , and say : ' I hope your industry may be reward a it deserve . '
The men thank him heartily , let him pass on , and the puma follow behind him .
Further along the path they saw the shin snake lie on the moss .
` What a lovely necklace for your daughter , ' exclaim the puma .
` Pick it up and take it with you . '
` You be very kind , but I will leave it for you , ' answer the monkey , and nothing more be say about the snake .
Not long after this they reach the comrade 's house , and find him just ready to go to bed .
So , without stop to talk , the guest sling their hammock , the monkey take care to place his so high that no one could get at him .
Besides , he think it would be more prudent not to fall asleep , so he only lay still and snore loudly .
When it be quite dark and no sound be to be hear , the puma creep out to the sheep-fold , kill the sheep , and carry back a bowl full of it blood with which to sprinkle the monkey .
But the monkey , who have be watch out of the corner of his eye , wait until the puma draw near , and with a violent kick upset the bowl all over the puma himself .
When the puma saw what have happen , he turn in a great hurry to leave the house , but before he could do so , he saw the shepherd come , and hastily lay down again .
` This be the second time I have lose a sheep , ' the man say to the monkey ; ` it will be the bad for the thief when I catch him , I can tell you . '
The monkey do not answer , but silently point to the puma who be pretend to be asleep .
The shepherd stoop and saw the blood , and cry out : ` Ah !
so it be you , be it ?
then take that ! '
and with his stick he give the puma such a blow on the head that he die then and there .
Then the monkey get up and go to the dairy , and drink all the milk he could find .
Afterwards he return home and marry , and that be the last we hear of him .
-LSB- Adapted from Folk-lore Bresilien . -RSB-
The Knights of the Fish Once upon a time there live an old cobbler who work hard at his trade from morning till night , and scarcely give himself a moment to eat .
But , industrious a he be , he could hardly buy bread and cheese for himself and his wife , and they grow thinner and thin daily .
For a long while whey pretend to each other that they have no appetite , and that a few blackberry from the hedge be a great deal nicer than a good strong bowl of soup .
But at length there come a day when the cobbler could bear it no longer , and he throw away his last , and borrow a rod from a neighbour he go out to fish .
Now the cobbler be a patient about fishing a he have be about cobble .
From dawn to dark he stand on the bank of the little stream , without hook anything good than an eel , or a few old shoe , that even he , clever though he be , felt be not worth mending .
At length his patience begin to give way , and a he undress one night he say to himself : ` Well , I will give it one more chance ; and if I do n't catch a fish to-morrow , I will go and hang myself . '
He have not cast his line for ten minute the next morning before he draw from the river the most beautiful fish he have ever see in his life .
But he nearly fell into the water from surprise , when the fish begin to speak to him , in a small , squeaky voice : ` Take me back to your hut and cook me ; then cut me up , and sprinkle me over with pepper and salt .
Give two of the piece to your wife , and bury two more in the garden . '
The cobbler do not know what to make of these strange word ; but he be wise than many people , and when he do not understand , he think it be well to obey .
His child want to eat all the fish themselves , and beg their father to tell them what to do with the piece he have put aside ; but the cobbler only laugh , and tell them it be no business of theirs .
And when they be safe in bed he steal out and bury the two piece in the garden .
By and by two baby , exactly alike , lay in a cradle , and in the garden be two tall plant , with two brilliant shield on the top .
Years pass away , and the baby be almost men .
They be tire of living quietly at home , be mistake for each other by everybody they saw , and determine to set off in different direction , to seek adventure .
So , one fine morning , the two brother leave the hut , and walk together to the place where the great road divide .
There they embrace and part , promise that if anything remarkable have happen to either , he would return to the cross road and wait till his brother come .
The youth who take the path that run eastward arrive presently at a large city , where he find everybody stand at the door , wring their hand and weep bitterly .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he , pause and look round .
And a man reply , in a faltering voice , that each year a beautiful girl be choose by lot to be offer up to a dreadful fiery dragon , who have a mother even bad than himself , and this year the lot have fall on their peerless princess .
` But where IS the princess ? '
say the young man once more , and again the man answer him : ` She be stand under a tree , a mile away , wait for the dragon . '
This time the Knight of the Fish do not stop to hear more , but run off as fast a he could , and find the princess bath in tear , and tremble from head to foot .
She turn a she hear the sound of his sword , and remove her handkerchief from his eye .
` Fly , ' she cry ; ` fly while you have yet time , before that monster see you . '
She say it , and she mean it ; yet , when he have turn his back , she felt more forsaken than before .
But in reality it be not more than a few minute before he come back , gallop furiously on a horse he have borrow , and carry a huge mirror across it neck . '
I be in time , then , ' he cry , dismount very carefully , and place the mirror against the trunk of a tree .
` Give me your veil , ' he say hastily to the princess .
And when she have unwound it from her head he cover the mirror with it .
` The moment the dragon come near you , you must tear off the veil , ' cry he ; ` and be sure you hide behind the mirror .
Have no fear ; I shall be at hand . '
He and his horse have scarcely find shelter amongst some rock , when the flap of the dragon 's wing could be plainly heard .
He toss his head with delight at the sight of her , and approach slowly to the place where she stand , a little in front of the mirror .
Then , still look the monster steadily in the face , she pass one hand behind her back and snatch off the veil , step swiftly behind the tree a she do so .
The princess have not know , when she obey the order of the Knight of the Fish , what she expect to happen .
Would the dragon with snaky lock be turn to stone , she wonder , like the dragon in an old story her nurse have tell her ; or would some fiery spark dart from the heart of the mirror , and strike him dead ?
Neither of these thing occur , but , instead , the dragon stop short with surprise and rage when he saw a monster before him a big and strong a himself .
He shake his mane with rage and fury ; the enemy in front do exactly the same .
He lash his tail , and roll his red eye , and the dragon opposite be no whit behind him .
Opening his mouth to it very wide , he give an awful roar ; but the other dragon only roar back .
This be too much , and with another roar which make the princess shake in her shoe , he fling himself upon his foe .
In an instant the mirror lay at his foot break into a thousand piece , but a every piece reflect part of himself , the dragon think that he too have be smash into atom .
It be the moment for which the Knight of the Fish have watch and wait , and before the dragon could find out that he be not hurt at all , the young man 's lance be down his throat , and he be roll , dead , on the grass .
Oh !
what shout of joy rang through the great city , when the youth come rid back with the princess sit behind him , and drag the horrible monster by a cord .
Everybody cry out that the king must give the victor the hand of the princess ; and so he do , and no one have ever see such ball and feast and sport before .
And when they be all over the young couple go to the palace prepare for them , which be so large that it be three mile round .
The first wet day after their marriage the bridegroom beg the bride to show him all the room in the palace , and it be so big and take so long that the sun be shin brightly again before they step on to the roof to see the view .
` What castle be that out there , ' ask the knight ; ` it seem to be make of black marble ? '
` It be call the castle of Albatroz , ' answer the princess .
` It be enchant , and no one that have try to enter it have ever come back . '
Her husband say nothing , and begin to talk of something else ; but the next morning he order his horse , take his spear , call his bloodhound , and set off for the castle .
It need a brave man to approach it , for it make your hair stand on end merely to look at it ; it be as dark a the night of a storm , and as silent a the grave .
But the Knight of the Fish know no fear , and have never turn his back on an enemy ; so he draw out his horn , and blow a blast .
The sound awake all the sleeping echo in the castle , and be repeat now loudly , now softly ; now near , and now far .
But nobody stir for all that .
` Is there anyone inside ? '
cry the young man in his loud voice ; ` anyone who will give a knight hospitality ?
Neither governor , nor squire , not even a page ? '
` Not even a page ! '
answer the echo .
But the young man do not heed them , and only strike a furious blow at the gate .
Then a small grating open , and there appear the tip of a huge nose , which belong to the ugly old woman that ever be see .
` What do you want ? '
say she .
` To enter , ' he answer shortly .
` Can I rest here this night ?
Yes or No ? '
` No , No , No ! '
repeat the echo .
Between the fierce sun and his anger at be keep wait , the Knight of the Fish have grow so hot that he lift his visor , and when the old woman saw how handsome he be , she begin fumble with the lock of the gate .
` Come in , come in , ' say she , ` so fine a gentleman will do u no harm . '
` Harm ! '
repeat the echo , but again the young man pay no heed .
` Let u go in , ancient dame , ' but she interrupt him .
` You must call me the Lady Berberisca , ' she answer , sharply ; ` and this be my castle , to which I bid you welcome .
You shall live here with me and be my husband . '
But at these word the knight let his spear fall , so surprised be he . '
I marry YOU ?
why you must be a hundred at least ! '
cry he .
` You be mad !
All I desire be to inspect the castle and then go . '
As he speak he hear the voice give a mocking laugh ; but the old woman take no notice , and only bid the knight follow her .
Old though she be , it seem impossible to tire her .
There be no room , however small , she do not lead him into , and each room be full of curious thing he have never see before .
At length they come to a stone staircase , which be so dark that you could not see your hand if you hold it up before your face . '
I have keep my most precious treasure till the last , ' say the old woman ; ` but let me go first , for the stair be steep , and you might easily break your leg . '
So on she go , now and then call back to the young man in the darkness .
But he do not know that she have slip aside into a recess , till suddenly he put his foot on a trap door which give way under him , and he fell down , down , a many good knight have do before him , and his voice join the echo of theirs .
` So you would not marry me ! '
chuckle the old witch .
` Ha !
ha !
Ha !
ha ! '
Meanwhile his brother have wander far and wide , and at last he wander back to the same great city where the other young knight have meet with so many adventure .
He notice , with amazement , that a he walk through the street the guard draw themselves up in line , and salute him , and the drummer play the royal march ; but he be still more bewildered when several servant in livery run up to him and tell him that the princess be sure something terrible have befall him , and have make herself ill with weep .
At last it occur to him that once more he have be take for his brother . '
I have well say nothing , ' think he ; ` perhaps I shall be able to help him after all . '
So he suffer himself to be bear in triumph to the palace , where the princess throw herself into his arm .
` And so you do go to the castle ? '
she ask .
` Yes , of course I do , ' answer he .
` And what do you see there ? ' '
I be forbidden to tell you anything about it , until I have return there once more , ' reply he .
` Must you really go back to that dreadful place ? '
she ask wistfully .
` You be the only man who have ever come back from it . ' '
I must , ' be all he answer .
And the princess , who be a wise woman , only say : ` Well , go to bed now , for I be sure you must be very tired . '
But the knight shake his head . '
I have swear never to lie in a bed as long a my work in the castle remain stand . '
And the princess again sigh , and be silent .
Early next day the young man start for the castle , feel sure that some terrible thing must have happen to his brother .
At the blast of his horn the long nose of the old woman appear at the grating , but the moment she catch sight of his face , she nearly faint from fright , a she think it be the ghost of the youth whose bone be lie in the dungeon of the castle .
` Lady of all the age , ' cry the new comer , ` do you not give hospitality to a young knight but a short time ago ? ' '
A short time ago ! '
wail the voice .
` And how have you ill-treated him ? '
he go on .
` Ill-treated him ! '
answer the voice .
The woman do not stop to hear more ; she turn to fly ; but the knight 's sword enter her body .
` Where be my brother , cruel hag ? '
ask he sternly . '
I will tell you , ' say she ; ` but a I feel that I be go to die I shall keep that piece of news to myself , till you have bring me to life again . '
The young man laugh scornfully .
` How do you propose that I should work that miracle ? '
` Oh , it be quite easy .
Go into the garden and gather the flower of the everlasting plant and some of dragon 's blood .
Crush them together and boil them in a large tub of water , and then put me into it . '
The knight do a the old witch bid him , and , sure enough , she come out quite whole , but ugly than ever .
She then tell the young man what have become of his brother , and he go down into the dungeon , and bring up his body and the body of the other victim who lay there , and when they be all wash in the magic water their strength be restore to them .
And , besides these , he find in another cavern the body of the girl who have be sacrifice to the dragon , and bring them back to life also .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Crimson_Fairy_Book.txt.out
Lovely Ilonka There be once a king 's son who tell his father that he wish to marry .
` No , no ! '
say the king ; ` you must not be in such a hurry .
Wait till you have do some great deed .
My father do not let me marry till I have win the golden sword you see me wear . '
The prince be much disappointed , but he never dream of disobey his father , and he begin to think with all his might what he could do .
It be no use stay at home , so one day he wander out into the world to try his luck , and a he walk along he come to a little hut in which he find an old woman crouch over the fire .
` Good evening , mother .
I see you have live long in this world ; do you know anything about the three bulrush ? '
` Yes , indeed , I 've live long and be much about in the world , but I have never see or hear anything of what you ask .
Still , if you will wait till to-morrow I may be able to tell you something . '
Well , he wait till the morning , and quite early the old woman appear and take out a little pipe and blew in it , and in a moment all the crow in the world be fly about her .
Not one be miss .
Then she ask if they know anything about the three bulrush , but not one of them do .
The prince go on his way , and a little further on he find another hut in which live an old man .
On be question the old man say he know nothing , but beg the prince to stay overnight , and the next morning the old man call all the raven together , but they too have nothing to tell .
The prince bid him farewell and set out .
He wander so far that he cross seven kingdom , and at last , one evening , he come to a little house in which be an old woman .
` Good evening , dear mother , ' say he politely .
` Good evening to you , my dear son , ' answer the old woman .
` It be lucky for you that you speak to me or you would have meet with a horrible death .
But may I ask where be you go ? ' '
I be seek the three bulrush .
Do you know anything about them ? ' '
I do n't know anything myself , but wait till to-morrow .
Perhaps I can tell you then . '
So the next morning she blow on her pipe , and lo !
and behold every magpie in the world fly up .
That be to say , all the magpie except one who have break a leg and a wing .
The old woman send after it at once , and when she question the magpie the crippled one be the only one who know where the three bulrush be .
Then the prince start off with the lame magpie .
They go on and on till they reach a great stone wall , many , many foot high .
` Now , prince , ' say the magpie , ` the three bulrush be behind that wall . '
The prince waste no time .
He set his horse at the wall and leap over it .
Then he look about for the three bulrush , pull them up and set off with them on his way home .
As he ride along one of the bulrush happen to knock against something .
It split open and , only think !
out sprang a lovely girl , who say : ` My heart 's love , you be mine and I be yours ; do give me a glass of water . '
But how could the prince give it her when there be no water at hand ?
So the lovely maiden fly away .
He split the second bulrush a an experiment and just the same thing happen .
How careful he be of the third bulrush !
He wait till he come to a well , and there he split it open , and out sprang a maiden seven time lovely than either of the others , and she too say : ` My heart 's love , I be yours and you be mine ; do give me a glass of water . '
This time the water be ready and the girl do not fly away , but she and the prince promise to love each other always .
Then they set out for home .
They soon reach the prince 's country , and a he wish to bring his promised bride back in a fine coach he go on to the town to fetch one .
In the field where the well be , the king 's swineherd and cowherd be feed their drove , and the prince leave Ilonka -LRB- for that be her name -RRB- in their care .
Unluckily the chief swineherd have an ugly old daughter , and whilst the prince be away he dress her up in fine clothes , and throw Ilonka into the well .
The prince return before long , bring with him his father and mother and a great train of courtier to escort Ilonka home .
But how they all star when they saw the swineherd 's ugly daughter !
However , there be nothing for it but to take her home ; and , two day later , the prince marry her , and his father give up the crown to him .
But he have no peace !
He know very well he have be cheat , though he could not think how .
Once he desire to have some water bring him from the well into which Ilonka have be throw .
The coachman go for it and , in the bucket he pull up , a pretty little duck be swim .
He look wonderingly at it , and all of a sudden it disappear and he find a dirty look girl stand near him .
The girl return with him and manage to get a place a housemaid in the palace .
Of course she be very busy all day long , but whenever she have a little spare time she sit down to spin .
Her distaff turn of itself and her spindle span by itself and the flax wind itself off ; and however much she might use there be always plenty left .
When the queen -- or , rather , the swineherd 's daughter -- heard of this , she very much wish to have the distaff , but the girl flatly refuse to give it to her .
However , at last she consent on condition that she might sleep one night in the king 's room .
The queen be very angry , and scold her well ; but a she long to have the distaff she consent , though she give the king a sleep draught at supper .
Then the girl go to the king 's room look seven time lovelier than ever .
She bend over the sleeper and say : ` My heart 's love , I be yours and you be mine .
Speak to me but once ; I be your Ilonka . '
But the king be so sound asleep he neither heard nor spoke , and Ilonka leave the room , sadly think he be ashamed to own her .
Soon after the queen again send to say that she want to buy the spindle .
The girl agree to let her have it on the same condition a before ; but this time , also , the queen take care to give the king a sleep draught .
And once more Ilonka go to the king 's room and speak to him ; whisper as sweetly a she might she could get no answer .
Now some of the king 's servant have take note of the matter , and warn their master not to eat and drink anything that the queen offer him , a for two night run she have give him a sleep draught .
The queen have no idea that her doings have be discover ; and when , a few day later , she want the flax , and have to pay the same price for it , she felt no fear at all .
At supper that night the queen offer the king all sort of nice thing to eat and drink , but he declare he be not hungry , and go early to bed .
The queen repent bitterly her promise to the girl , but it be too late to recall it ; for Ilonka have already enter the king 's room , where he lay anxiously wait for something , he know not what .
All of a sudden he saw a lovely maiden who bend over him and say : ` My dearest love , I be yours and you be mine .
Speak to me , for I be your Ilonka . '
At these word the king 's heart bound within him .
He spring up and embrace and kiss her , and she tell him all her adventure since the moment he have leave her .
And when he hear all that Ilonka have suffer , and how he have be deceive , he vow he would be revenge ; so he give order that the swineherd , his wife and daughter should all be hang ; and so they be .
The next day the king be marry , with great rejoicing , to the fair Ilonka ; and if they be not yet dead -- why , they be still live .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrehen . -RSB-
Lucky Luck Once upon a time there be a king who have an only son .
When the lad be about eighteen year old his father have to go to fight in a war against a neighbouring country , and the king lead his troop in person .
He bid his son act a Regent in his absence , but order him on no account to marry till his return .
Time go by .
The prince rule the country and never even think of marrying .
But when he reach his twenty-fifth birthday he begin to think that it might be rather nice to have a wife , and he think so much that at last he get quite eager about it .
He remember , however , what his father have say , and wait some time longer , till at last it be ten year since the king go out to war .
Then the prince call his courtier about him and set off with a great retinue to seek a bride .
He hardly know which way to go , so he wander about for twenty day , when , suddenly , he find himself in his father 's camp .
The king be delight to see his son , and have a great many question to ask and answer ; but when he hear that instead of quietly wait for him at home the prince be start off to seek a wife he be very angry , and say : ` You may go where you please but I will not leave any of my people with you . '
Only one faithful servant stay with the prince and refuse to part from him .
They journey over hill and dale till they come to a place call Goldtown .
The King of Goldtown have a lovely daughter , and the prince , who soon hear about her beauty , could not rest till he saw her .
He be very kindly receive , for he be extremely good-looking and have charm manner , so he lose no time in ask for her hand and her parent give her to him with joy .
The wedding take place at once , and the feasting and rejoicing go on for a whole month .
At the end of the month they set off for home , but a the journey be a long one they spend the first evening at an inn .
Everyone in the house slept , and only the faithful servant keep watch .
About midnight he hear three crow , who have fly to the roof , talk together .
` That 's a handsome couple which arrive here tonight .
It seem quite a pity they should lose their life so soon . '
` Truly , ' say the second crow ; ` for to-morrow , when midday strike , the bridge over the Gold Stream will break just a they be drive over it .
But , listen !
whoever overhears and tell what we have say will be turn to stone up to his knee . '
The crow have hardly do speaking when away they fly .
And close upon them follow three pigeon .
` Even if the prince and princess get safe over the bridge they will perish , ' say they ; ` for the king be go to send a carriage to meet them which look as new a paint .
But when they be seat in it a rag wind will rise and whirl the carriage away into the cloud .
Then it will fall suddenly to earth , and they will be kill .
But anyone who hear and betray what we have say will be turn to stone up to his waist . '
With that the pigeon fly off and three eagle take their place , and this be what they say : ` If the young couple do manage to escape the danger of the bridge and the carriage , the king mean to send them each a splendid gold embroider robe .
When they put these on they will be burn up at once .
But whoever hears and repeat this will turn to stone from head to foot . '
Early next morning the traveller get up and breakfast .
They begin to tell each other their dream .
At last the servant say : ` Gracious prince , I dream that if your Royal Highness would grant all I ask we should get home safe and sound ; but if you do not we should certainly be lose .
My dream never deceive me , so I entreat you to follow my advice during the rest of the journey . '
` Do n't make such a fuss about a dream , ' say the prince ; ` dream be but cloud .
Still , to prevent your be anxious I will promise to do a you wish . '
With that they set out on their journey .
At midday they reach the Gold Stream .
When they get to the bridge the servant say : ` Let u leave the carriage here , my prince , and walk a little way .
The town be not far off and we can easily get another carriage there , for the wheel of this one be bad and will not hold out much long . '
The prince look well at the carriage .
He do not think it look so unsafe a his servant say ; but he have give his word and he hold to it .
They get down and load the horse with the luggage .
The prince and his bride walk over the bridge , but the servant say he would ride the horse through the stream so a to water and bathe them .
They reach the other side without harm , and buy a new carriage in the town , which be quite near , and set off once more on their travel ; but they have not go far when they meet a messenger from the king who say to the prince : ` His Majesty have send your Royal Highness this beautiful carriage so that you may make a fitting entry into your own country and amongst your own people . '
The prince be so delighted that he could not speak .
But the servant say : ` My lord , let me examine this carriage first and then you can get in if I find it be all right ; otherwise we have well stay in our own . '
The prince make no objection , and after look the carriage well over the servant say : ` It be as bad a it be smart ' ; and with that he knock it all to piece , and they go on in the one that they have buy .
At last they reach the frontier ; there another messenger be wait for them , who say that the king have send two splendid robe for the prince and his bride , and beg that they would wear them for their state entry .
But the servant implore the prince to have nothing to do with them , and never give him any peace till he have obtain leave to destroy the robe .
The old king be furious when he find that all his art have fail ; that his son still live and that he would have to give up the crown to him now he be marry , for that be the law of the land .
He long to know how the prince have escape , and say : ` My dear son , I do indeed rejoice to have you safely back , but I can not imagine why the beautiful carriage and the splendid robe I send do not please you ; why you have them destroy . '
` Indeed , sire , ' say the prince , ' I be myself much annoy at their destruction ; but my servant have beg to direct everything on the journey and I have promise him that he should do so .
He declare that we could not possibly get home safely unless I do a he tell me . '
The old king fell into a tremendous rage .
He call his Council together and condemn the servant to death .
The gallows be put up in the square in front of the palace .
The servant be lead out and his sentence read to him .
The rope be be place round his neck , when he beg to be allow a few last word .
` On our journey home , ' he say , ` we spend the first night at an inn .
I do not sleep but keep watch all night . '
And then he go on to tell what the crow have say , and a he speak he turn to stone up to his knee .
The prince call to him to say no more a he have prove his innocence .
But the servant pay no heed to him , and by the time his story be do he have turn to stone from head to foot .
Oh !
how grieve the prince be to lose his faithful servant !
And what pain him most be the thought that he be lose through his very faithfulness , and he determine to travel all over the world and never rest till he find some mean of restore him to life .
Now there live at Court an old woman who have be the prince 's nurse .
To her he confide all his plan , and leave his wife , the princess , in her care .
` You have a long way before you , my son , ' say the old woman ; ` you must never return till you have meet with Lucky Luck .
If he can not help you no one on earth can . '
So the prince set off to try to find Lucky Luck .
He walk and walk till he get beyond his own country , and he wander through a wood for three day but do not meet a living be in it .
At the end of the third day he come to a river near which stand a large mill .
Here he spend the night .
When he be leave next morning the miller ask him : ` My gracious lord , where be you go all alone ? '
And the prince tell him .
` Then I beg your Highness to ask Lucky Luck this question : Why be it that though I have an excellent mill , with all it machinery complete , and get plenty of grain to grind , I be so poor that I hardly know how to live from one day to another ? '
The prince promise to inquire , and go on his way .
He wander about for three day more , and at the end of the third day saw a little town .
It be quite late when he reach it , but he could discover no light anywhere , and walk almost right through it without find a house where he could turn in .
But far away at the end of the town he saw a light in a window .
He go straight to it and in the house be three girl play a game together .
The prince ask for a night 's lodging and they take him in , give him some supper and get a room ready for him , where he sleep .
Next morning when he be leave they ask where he be go and he tell them his story .
` Gracious prince , ' say the maiden , ` do ask Lucky Luck how it happen that here we be over thirty year old and no lover have come to woo u , though we be good , pretty , and very industrious . '
The prince promise to inquire , and go on his way .
Then he come to a great forest and wander about in it from morning to night and from night to morning before he get near the other end .
Here he find a pretty stream which be different from other stream a , instead of flow , it stand still and begin to talk : ` Sir prince , tell me what bring you into these wild ?
I must have be flow here a hundred year and more and no one have ever yet come by . ' '
I will tell you , ' answer the prince , ` if you will divide yourself so that I may walk through . '
The stream part at once , and the prince walk through without wet his foot ; and directly he get to the other side he tell his story a he have promise .
` Oh , do ask Lucky Luck , ' cry the brook , ` why , though I be such a clear , bright , rapid stream I never have a fish or any other living creature in my water . '
The prince say he would do so , and continue his journey .
When he get quite clear of the forest he walk on through a lovely valley till he reach a little house thatch with rush , and he go in to rest for he be very tired .
Everything in the house be beautifully clean and tidy , and a cheerful honest-looking old woman be sit by the fire .
` Good-morning , mother , ' say the prince .
` May Luck be with you , my son .
What bring you into these part ? ' '
I be look for Lucky Luck , ' reply the prince .
` Then you have come to the right place , my son , for I be his mother .
He be not at home just now , he be out dig in the vineyard .
Do you go too .
Here be two spade .
When you find him begin to dig , but do n't speak a word to him .
It be now eleven o'clock .
When he sit down to eat his dinner sit beside him and eat with him .
After dinner he will question you , and then tell him all your trouble freely .
He will answer whatever you may ask . '
With that she show him the way , and the prince go and do just a she have tell him .
After dinner they lay down to rest .
All of a sudden Lucky Luck begin to speak and say : ` Tell me , what sort of man be you , for since you come here you have not speak a word ? ' '
I be not dumb , ' reply the young man , ` but I be that unhappy prince whose faithful servant have be turn to stone , and I want to know how to help him . '
` And you do well , for he deserve everything .
Go back , and when you get home your wife will just have have a little boy .
Take three drop of blood from the child 's little finger , rub them on your servant 's wrist with a blade of grass and he will return to life . ' '
I have another thing to ask , ' say the prince , when he have thank him .
` In the forest near here be a fine stream but not a fish or other living creature in it .
Why be this ? '
` Because no one have ever be drown in the stream .
But take care , in cross , to get a near the other side a you can before you say so , or you may be the first victim yourself . '
` Another question , please , before I go .
On my way here I lodge one night in the house of three maiden .
All be well-mannered , hard-working , and pretty , and yet none have have a wooer .
Why be this ? '
` Because they always throw out their sweeping in the face of the sun . '
` And why be it that a miller , who have a large mill with all the best machinery and get plenty of corn to grind be so poor that he can hardly live from day to day ? '
` Because the miller keep everything for himself , and do not give to those who need it . '
The prince write down the answer to his question , take a friendly leave of Lucky Luck , and set off for home .
When he reach the stream it ask if he bring it any good news .
` When I get across I will tell you , ' say he .
So the stream part ; he walk through and on to the high part of the bank .
He stop and shout out : ` Listen , oh stream !
Lucky Luck say you will never have any living creature in your water until someone be drown in you . '
The word be hardly out of his mouth when the stream swell and overflow till it reach the rock up which he have climb , and dash so far up it that the spray fly over him .
But he cling on tight , and after fail to reach him three time the stream return to it proper course .
Then the prince climb down , dry himself in the sun , and set out on his march home .
He spend the night once more at the mill and give the miller his answer , and by-and-by he tell the three sister not to throw out all their sweeping in the face of the sun .
The prince have hardly arrive at home when some thief try to ford the stream with a fine horse they have steal .
When they be half-way across , the stream rise so suddenly that it sweep them all away .
From that time it become the best fishing stream in the country-side .
The miller , too , begin to give alms and become a very good man , and in time grow so rich that he hardly know how much he have .
And the three sister , now that they no longer insult the sun , have each a wooer within a week .
When the prince get home he find that his wife have just get a fine little boy .
He do not lose a moment in prick the baby 's finger till the blood ran , and he brush it on the wrist of the stone figure , which shudder all over and split with a loud noise in seven part and there be the faithful servant alive and well .
When the old king saw this he foam with rage , star wildly about , flung himself on the ground and die .
The servant stay on with his royal master and serve him faithfully all the rest of his life ; and , if neither of them be dead , he be serve him still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Hairy Man Somewhere or other , but I do n't know where , there live a king who own two remarkably fine field of rape , but every night two of the rape heap be burnt down in one of the field .
The king be extremely angry at this , and send out soldier to catch whoever have set fire to the rick ; but it be all of no use -- not a soul could they see .
Then he offer nine hundred crown to anyone who catch the evil-doer , and at the same time order that whoever do not keep proper watch over the field should be kill ; but though there be a great many people , none seem able to protect the field .
The king have already put ninety-nine people to death , when a little swineherd come to him who have two dog ; one be call ` Psst , ' and the other ` Hush ' ; and the boy tell the king that he would watch over the rick .
When it grow dark he climb up on the top of the fourth rick , from where he could see the whole field .
About eleven o'clock he think he saw someone go to a rick and put a light to it .
` Just you wait , ' think he , and call out to his dog : ` Hi !
Psst , Hush , catch him ! '
But Psst and Hush have not wait for order , and in five minute the man be catch .
Next morning he be bring bound before the king , who be so pleased with the boy that he give him a thousand crown at once .
The prisoner be all cover with hair , almost like an animal ; and altogether he be so curious to look at that the king lock him up in a strong room and send out letter of invitation to all the other king and prince ask them to come and see this wonder .
That be all very well ; but the king have a little boy of ten year old who go to look at the hairy man also , and the man beg so hard to be set free that the boy take pity on him .
He steal the key of the strong room from his mother and open the door .
Then he take the key back , but the hairy man escape and go off into the world .
Then the king and prince begin to arrive one after another , and all be most anxious to see the hairy man ; but he be go !
The king nearly burst with rage and with the shame he felt .
He question his wife sharply , and tell her that if she could not find and bring back the hairy man he would put her in a hut make of rush and burn her there .
The queen declare she have have nothing to do with the matter ; if her son have happen to take the key it have not be with her knowledge .
So they fetch the little prince and ask him all sort of question , and at last he own that he have let the hairy man out .
The king order his servant to take the boy into the forest and to kill him there , and to bring back part of his liver and lung .
There be grief all over the palace when the king 's command be know , for he be a great favourite .
But there be no help for it , and they take the boy out into the forest .
But the man be sorry for him , and shoot a dog and carry piece of his lung and liver to the king , who be satisfy , and do not trouble himself any more .
The prince wander about in the forest and live a best he could for five year .
One day he come upon a poor little cottage in which be an old man .
They begin to talk , and the prince tell his story and sad fate .
Then they recognise each other , for the old fellow be no other than the hairy man whom the prince have set free , and who have live ever since in the forest .
The prince stay here for two year ; then he wish to go far .
The old man beg him hard to stay , but he would not , so his hairy friend give him a golden apple out of which come a horse with a golden mane , and a golden staff with which to guide the horse .
The old man also give him a silver apple out of which come the most beautiful hussar and a silver staff ; and a copper apple from which he could draw a many foot soldier a ever he wish , and a copper staff .
He make the prince swear solemnly to take the great care of these present , and then he let him go .
The boy wander on and on till he come to a large town .
Here he take service in the king 's palace , and a no one trouble themselves about him he live quietly on .
One day news be bring to the king that he must go out to war .
He be horribly frighten for he have a very small army , but he have to go all the same .
When they have all leave , the prince say to the housekeeper : ` Give me leave to go to the next village -- I owe a small bill there , and I want to go and pay it ' ; and a there be nothing to be do in the palace the housekeeper give him leave .
When he get beyond the town he take out his golden apple , and when the horse spring out he swing himself into the saddle .
Then he take the silver and the copper apple , and with all these fine soldier he join the king 's army .
The king saw them approach with fear in his heart , for he do not know if it might not be an enemy ; but the prince ride up , and bow low before him . '
I bring your Majesty reinforcement , ' say he .
The king be delight , and all dread of his enemy at once disappear .
The princess be there too , and they be very friendly with the prince and beg him to get into their carriage so a to talk to them .
But he decline , and remain on horseback , a he do not know at what moment the battle might begin ; and whilst they be all talk together the young princess , who be also the lovely , take off her ring , and her sister tore her handkerchief in two piece , and they give these gift to the prince .
Suddenly the enemy come in sight .
The king ask whether his army or the prince 's should lead the way ; but the prince set off first and with his hussar he fight so bravely that only two of the enemy be leave alive , and these two be only spar to act a messenger .
The king be overjoy and so be his daughter at this brilliant victory .
As they drive home they beg the prince to join them , but he would not come , and gallop off with his hussar .
When he get near the town he pack his soldier and his fine horse all carefully into the apple again , and then stroll into the town .
On his return to the palace he be well scold by the housekeeper for stay away so long .
Well , the whole matter might have end there ; but it so happen that the young princess have fall in love with the prince , a he have with her .
And a he have no jewel with him , he give her the copper apple and staff .
One day , a the princess be talk with their father , the young one ask him whether it might not have be their servant who have help him so much .
The king be quite angry at the idea ; but , to satisfy her , he order the servant 's room to be search .
And there , to everyone 's surprise , they find the golden ring and the half of the handkerchief .
When these be bring to the king he send for the prince at once and ask if it have be he who have come to their rescue .
` Yes , your Majesty , it be I , ' answer the prince .
` But where do you get your army ? '
` If you wish to see it , I can show it you outside the city wall . '
And so he do ; but first he ask for the copper apple from the young princess , and when all the soldier be draw up there be such number that there be barely room for them .
The king give him his daughter and kingdom a a reward for his aid , and when he hear that the prince be himself a king 's son his joy know no bound .
The prince pack all his soldier carefully up once more , and they go back into the town .
Not long after there be a grand wedding ; perhaps they may all be alive still , but I do n't know .
To Your Good Health !
Long , long ago there live a king who be such a mighty monarch that whenever he sneeze every one in the whole country have to say ` To your good health ! '
Every one say it except the shepherd with the star eye , and he would not say it .
The king heard of this and be very angry , and send for the shepherd to appear before him .
The shepherd come and stand before the throne , where the king sit look very grand and powerful .
But however grand or powerful he might be the shepherd do not feel a bit afraid of him .
` Say at once , `` To my good health ! '' '
cry the king .
` To my good health ! '
reply the shepherd .
` To mine -- to mine , you rascal , you vagabond ! '
storm the king .
` To mine , to mine , your Majesty , ' be the answer .
` But to mine -- to my own , ' roar the king , and beat on his breast in a rage .
` Well , yes ; to mine , of course , to my own , ' cry the shepherd , and gently tap his breast .
The king be beside himself with fury and do not know what to do , when the Lord Chamberlain interfere : ` Say at once -- say this very moment : `` To your health , your Majesty '' ; for if you do n't say it you 'll lose your life , whisper he .
` No , I wo n't say it till I get the princess for my wife , ' be the shepherd 's answer .
Now the princess be sit on a little throne beside the king , her father , and she look a sweet and lovely a a little golden dove .
When she hear what the shepherd say she could not help laughing , for there be no deny the fact that this young shepherd with the star eye please her very much ; indeed he please her good than any king 's son she have yet see .
But the king be not as pleasant a his daughter , and he give order to throw the shepherd into the white bear 's pit .
The guard lead him away and thrust him into the pit with the white bear , who have have nothing to eat for two day and be very hungry .
The door of the pit be hardly close when the bear rush at the shepherd ; but when it saw his eye it be so frightened that it be ready to eat itself .
It shrink away into a corner and gaze at him from there , and , in spite of be so famish , do not dare to touch him , but suck it own paw from sheer hunger .
The shepherd felt that if he once remove his eye off the beast he be a dead man , and in order to keep himself awake he make song and sing them , and so the night go by .
Next morning the Lord Chamberlain come to see the shepherd 's bone , and be amaze to find him alive and well .
He lead him to the king , who fell into a furious passion , and say : ` Well , you have learn what it be to be very near death , and now will you say `` To my good health '' ? '
But the shepherd answer : ' I be not afraid of ten death !
I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to your death , ' cry the king ; and order him to be throw into the den with the wild boar .
The wild boar have not be feed for a week , and when the shepherd be thrust into their don they rush at him to tear him to piece .
But the shepherd take a little flute out of the sleeve of his jacket and begin to play a merry tune , on which the wild boar first of all shrank shyly away , and then get up on their hind leg and dance gaily .
The shepherd would have give anything to be able to laugh , they look so funny ; but he dare not stop playing , for he know well enough that the moment he stop they would fall upon him and tear him to piece .
His eye be of no use to him here , for he could not have star ten wild boar in the face at once ; so he keep on playing , and the wild boar dance very slowly , a if in a minuet , then by degree he play faster and faster till they could hardly twist and turn quickly enough , and end by all fall over each other in a heap , quite exhaust and out of breath .
Then the shepherd venture to laugh at last ; and he laugh so long and so loud that when the Lord Chamberlain come early in the morning , expect to find only his bone , the tear be still run down his cheek from laughter .
As soon a the king be dress the shepherd be again bring before him ; but he be more angry than ever to think the wild boar have not tear the man to bit , and he say : ` Well , you have learn what it feel to be near ten death , now say `` To my good health ! '' '
But the shepherd broke in with , ' I do not fear a hundred death , and I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to a hundred death ! '
roar the king , and order the shepherd to be throw down the deep vault of scythe .
The guard drag him away to a dark dungeon , in the middle of which be a deep well with sharp scythe all round it .
At the bottom of the well be a little light by which one could see if anyone be throw in whether he have fall to the bottom .
When the shepherd be drag to the dungeon he beg the guard to leave him alone a little while that he might look down into the pit of scythe ; perhaps he might after all make up his mind to say ` To your good health ' to the king .
So the guard leave him alone and he stick up his long stick near the well , hang his cloak round the stick and put his hat on the top .
He also hang his knapsack up inside the cloak so that it might seem to have some body within it .
When this be do he call out to the guard and say that he have consider the matter but after all he could not make up his mind to say what the king wish .
The guard come in , throw the hat and cloak , knapsack and stick all down the well together , watch to see how they put out the light at the bottom and come away , think that now there really be an end of the shepherd .
But he have hide in a dark corner and be laugh to himself all the time .
Quite early next morning come the Lord Chamberlain , carry a lamp and he nearly fell backwards with surprise when he saw the shepherd alive and well .
He bring him to the king , whose fury be great than ever , but who cry : ` Well , now you have be near a hundred death ; will you say : `` To your good health '' ? '
But the shepherd only give the same answer : ' I wo n't say it till the princess be my wife . '
` Perhaps after all you may do it for less , ' say the king , who saw that there be no chance of make away with the shepherd ; and he order the state coach to be get ready , then he make the shepherd get in with him and sit beside him , and order the coachman to drive to the silver wood .
When they reach it he say : ` Do you see this silver wood ?
Well , if you will say , `` To your good health , '' I will give it to you . '
The shepherd turn hot and cold by turn , but he still persist : ' I will not say it till the princess be my wife . '
The king be much vexed ; he drive far on till they come to a splendid castle , all of gold , and then he say : ` Do you see this golden castle ?
Well , I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle , if only you will say that one thing to me : `` To your good health . '' '
The shepherd gap and wonder and be quite dazzled , but he still say : ` No ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
This time the king be overwhelm with grief , and give order to drive on to the diamond pond , and there he try once more .
` Do you see this diamond pond ?
I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle and the diamond pond .
You shall have them all -- all -- if you will but say : `` To your good health ! '' '
The shepherd have to shut his star eye tight not to be dazzle with the brilliant pond , but still he say : ` No , no ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
Then the king saw that all his effort be useless , and that he might as well give in , so he say : ` Well , well , it 's all the same to me -- I will give you my daughter to wife ; but , then , you really and truly must say to me : `` To your good health . '' '
` Of course I 'll say it ; why should I not say it ?
It stand to reason that I shall say it then . '
At this the king be more delighted than anyone could have believe .
He make it known all through the country that there be to be great rejoicing , a the princess be go to be marry .
And everyone rejoice to think that the princess , who have refuse so many royal suitor , should have end by fall in love with the staring-eyed shepherd .
There be such a wedding a have never be see .
Everyone ate and drank and dance .
Even the sick be feast , and quite tiny new-born child have present give them .
But the great merry-making be in the king 's palace ; there the best band play and the best food be cook ; a crowd of people sit down to table , and all be fun and merry-making .
And when the groomsman , accord to custom , bring in the great boar 's head on a big dish and place it before the king so that he might carve it and give everyone a share , the savoury smell be so strong that the king begin to sneeze with all his might .
` To your very good health , ' cry the shepherd before anyone else , and the king be so delighted that he do not regret have give him his daughter .
In time , when the old king die , the shepherd succeed him .
He make a very good king and never expect his people to wish him well against their will ; but , all the same , everyone do wish him well , for they all love him .
-LSB- From Russische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Story of the Seven Simons Far , far away , beyond all sort of country , sea and river , there stand a splendid city where live King Archidej , who be as good a he be rich and handsome .
His great army be make up of men ready to obey his slight wish ; he own forty time forty city , and in each city he have ten palace with silver door , golden roof , and crystal window .
His council consist of the twelve wise men in the country , whose long beard flow down over their breast , each of whom be as learn a a whole college .
This council always tell the king the exact truth .
Now the king have everything to make him happy , but he do not enjoy anything because he could not find a bride to his mind .
One day , a he sit in his palace look out to sea , a great ship sail into the harbour and several merchant come on shore .
Said the king to himself : ` These people have travel far and behold many land .
I will ask them if they have see any princess who be a clever and as handsome a I be . '
So he order the merchant to be bring before him , and when they come he say : ` You have travel much and visit many wonder .
I wish to ask you a question , and I beg you to answer truthfully .
` Have you anywhere see or hear of the daughter of an emperor , king , or a prince , who be a clever and as handsome a I be , and who would be worthy to be my wife and the queen of my country ? '
The merchant consider for some time .
At last the eldest of them say : ' I have hear that across many sea , in the Island of Busan , there be a mighty king , whose daughter , the Princess Helena , be so lovely that she can certainly not be plain than your Majesty , and so clever that the wise greybeard can not guess her riddle . '
` Is the island far off , and which be the way to it ? '
` It be not near , ' be the answer .
` The journey would take ten year , and we do not know the way .
And even if we do , what use would that be ?
The princess be no bride for you . '
` How dare you say so ? '
cry the king angrily .
` Your Majesty must pardon u ; but just think for a moment .
Should you send an envoy to the island he will take ten year to get there and ten more to return -- twenty year in all .
Will not the princess have grow old in that time and have lose all her beauty ? '
The king reflect gravely .
Then he thank the merchant , give them leave to trade in his country without pay any duty , and dismiss them .
After they be go the king remain deep in thought .
He felt puzzled and anxious ; so he decide to ride into the country to distract his mind , and send for his huntsman and falconer .
The huntsman blow their horn , the falconer take their hawk on their wrist , and off they all set out across country till they come to a green hedge .
On the other side of the hedge stretch a great field of maize as far a the eye could reach , and the yellow ear sway to and fro in the gentle breeze like a ripple sea of gold .
The king draw rein and admire the field .
` Upon my word , ' say he , ` whoever dug and plant it must be good workman .
If all the field in my kingdom be as well care for a this , there would be more bread than my people could eat . '
And he wish to know to whom the field belong .
Off rush all his follower at once to do his bidding , and find a nice , tidy farmhouse , in front of which sit seven peasant , lunch on rye bread and drinking water .
They wear red shirt bound with gold braid , and be so much alike that one could hardly tell one from another .
The messenger ask : ` Who own this field of golden maize ? '
And the seven brother answer : ` The field be ours . '
` And who be you ? '
` We be King Archidej 's labourer . '
These answer be repeat to the king , who order the brother to be bring before him at once .
On be ask who they be , the eldest say , bow low : ` We , King Archidej , be your labourer , child of one father and mother , and we all have the same name , for each of u be call Simon .
Our father teach u to be true to our king , and to till the ground , and to be kind to our neighbour .
He also teach each of u a different trade which he think might be useful to u , and he bid u not neglect our mother earth , which would be sure amply to repay our labour . '
The king be pleased with the honest peasant , and say : ` You have do well , good people , in plant your field , and now you have a golden harvest .
But I should like each of you to tell me what special trade your father taught you . '
` My trade , O king ! '
say the first Simon , ` be not an easy one .
If you will give me some workman and material I will build you a great white pillar that shall reach far above the cloud . '
` Very good , ' reply the king .
` And you , Simon the second , what be your trade ? '
` Mine , your Majesty , need no great cleverness .
When my brother have build the pillar I can mount it , and from the top , far above the cloud , I can see what be happen : in every country under the sun . '
` Good , ' say the king ; ` and Simon the third ? '
` My work be very simple , sire .
You have many ship build by learned men , with all sort of new and clever improvement .
If you wish it I will build you quite a simple boat -- one , two , three , and it 's do !
But my plain little home-made ship be not grand enough for a king .
Where other ship take a year , mine make the voyage in a day , and where they would require ten year mine will do the distance in a week . '
` Good , ' say the king again ; ` and what have Simon the fourth learnt ? '
` My trade , O king , be really of no importance .
Should my brother build you a ship , then let me embark in it .
If we should be pursue by an enemy I can seize our boat by the prow and sink it to the bottom of the sea .
When the enemy have sail off , I can draw it up to the top again . '
` That be very clever of you , ' answer the king ; ` and what do Simon the fifth do ? '
` My work , your Majesty , be mere smith 's work .
Order me to build a smithy and I will make you a cross-bow , but from which neither the eagle in the sky nor the wild beast in the forest be safe .
The bolt hit whatever the eye see . '
` That sound very useful , ' say the king .
` And now , Simon the sixth , tell me your trade . '
` Sire , it be so simple I be almost ashamed to mention it .
If my brother hit any creature I catch it quick than any dog can .
If it fall into the water I pick it up out of the great depth , and if it be in a dark forest I can find it even at midnight . '
The king be much please with the trade and talk of the six brother , and say : ` Thank you , good people ; your father do well to teach you all these thing .
Now follow me to the town , a I want to see what you can do .
I need such people a you about me ; but when harvest time come I will send you home with royal present . '
The brother bow and say : ` As the king will . '
Suddenly the king remember that he have not question the seventh Simon , so he turn to him and say : ` Why be you silent ?
What be your handicraft ? '
And the seventh Simon answer : ' I have no handicraft , O king ; I have learnt nothing .
I could not manage it .
And if I do know how to do anything it be not what might properly be call a real trade -- it be rather a sort of performance ; but it be one which no one -- not the king himself -- must watch me do , and I doubt whether this performance of mine would please your Majesty . '
` Come , come , ' cry the king ; ' I will have no excuse , what be this trade ? '
` First , sire , give me your royal word that you will not kill me when I have tell you .
Then you shall hear . '
` So be it , then ; I give you my royal word . '
Then the seventh Simon step back a little , clear his throat , and say : ` My trade , King Archidej , be of such a kind that the man who follow it in your kingdom generally lose his life and have no hope of pardon .
There be only one thing I can do really well , and that be -- to steal , and to hide the small scrap of anything I have steal .
Not the deep vault , even if it lock be enchant , could prevent my steal anything out of it that I wish to have . '
When the king heard this he fell into a passion . '
I will not pardon you , you rascal , ' he cry ; ' I will shut you up in my deep dungeon on bread and water till you have forget such a trade .
Indeed , it would be good to put you to death at once , and I 've a good mind to do so . '
` Do n't kill me , O king !
I be really not as bad a you think .
Why , have I choose , I could have rob the royal treasury , have bribe your judge to let me off , and build a white marble palace with what be leave .
But though I know how to steal I do n't do it .
You yourself ask me my trade .
If you kill me you will break your royal word . '
` Very well , ' say the king , ' I will not kill you .
I pardon you .
But from this hour you shall be shut up in a dark dungeon .
Here , guard !
away with him to the prison .
But you six Simons follow me and be assure of my royal favour . '
So the six Simons follow the king .
The seventh Simon be seize by the guard , who put him in chain and throw him in prison with only bread and water for food .
Next day the king give the first Simon carpenter , mason , smith and labourer , with great store of iron , mortar , and the like , and Simon begin to build .
And he build his great white pillar far , far up into the cloud , as high a the near star ; but the other star be high still .
Then the second Simon climb up the pillar and saw and hear all that be go on through the whole world .
When he come down he have all sort of wonderful thing to tell .
How one king be march in battle against another , and which be likely to be the victor .
How , in another place , great rejoicing be go on , while in a third people be die of famine .
In fact there be not the small event go on over the earth that be hide from him .
Next the third Simon begin .
He stretch out his arm , once , twice , thrice , and the wonder-ship be ready .
At a sign from the king it be launch , and float proudly and safely like a bird on the wave .
Instead of rope it have wire for rigging , and musician play on them with fiddle bow and make lovely music .
As the ship swam about , the fourth Simon seize the prow with his strong hand , and in a moment it be go -- sunk to the bottom of the sea .
An hour pass , and then the ship float again , draw up by Simon 's left hand , while in his right he bring a gigantic fish from the depth of the ocean for the royal table .
Whilst this be go on the fifth Simon have build his forge and hammer out his iron , and when the king return from the harbour the magic cross-bow be make .
His Majesty go out into an open field at once , look up into the sky and saw , far , far away , an eagle fly up towards the sun and look like a little speck .
` Now , ' say the king , ` if you can shoot that bird I will reward you . '
Simon only smile ; he lift his cross-bow , take aim , fire , and the eagle fell .
As it be fall the sixth Simon ran with a dish , catch the bird before it fell to earth and bring it to the king .
` Many thanks , my brave lad , ' say the king ; ' I see that each of you be indeed a master of his trade .
You shall be richly reward .
But now rest and have your dinner . '
The six Simons bow and go to dinner .
But they have hardly begin before a messenger come to say that the king want to see them .
They obey at once and find him surround by all his court and men of state .
` Listen , my good fellow , ' cry the king , as soon a he saw them .
` Hear what my wise counsellor have think of .
As you , Simon the second , can see the whole world from the top of the great pillar , I want you to climb up and to see and hear .
For I be tell that , far away , across many sea , be the great kingdom of the Island of Busan , and that the daughter of the king be the beautiful Princess Helena . '
Off run the second Simon and clamber quickly up the pillar .
He gaze around , listen on all side , and then slide down to report to the king .
` Sire , I have obey your order .
Far away I saw the Island of Busan .
The king be a mighty monarch , but full of pride , harsh and cruel .
He sit on his throne and declare that no prince or king on earth be good enough for his lovely daughter , that he will give her to none , and that if any king asks for her hand he will declare war against him and destroy his kingdom . '
` Has the king of Busan a great army ? '
ask King Archidej ; ` be his country far off ? '
` As far a I could judge , ' reply Simon , ` it would take you nearly ten year in fair weather to sail there .
But if the weather be stormy we might say twelve .
I saw the army be review .
It be not so very large -- a hundred thousand men at arm and a hundred thousand knight .
Besides these , he have a strong bodyguard and a good many cross-bowmen .
Altogether you may say another hundred thousand , and there be a picked body of hero who reserve themselves for great occasion require particular courage . '
The king sit for some time lose in thought .
At last he say to the noble and courtier stand round : ' I be determine to marry the Princess Helena , but how shall I do it ? '
The noble , courtier and counsellor say nothing , but try to hide behind each other .
Then the third Simon say : ` Pardon me , your Majesty , if I offer my advice .
You wish to go to the Island of Busan ?
What can be easy ?
In my ship you will get there in a week instead of in ten year .
But ask your council to advise you what to do when you arrive -- in one word , whether you will win the princess peacefully or by war ? '
But the wise men be as silent a ever .
The king frown , and be about to say something sharp , when the Court Fool push his way to the front and say : ` Dear me , what be all you clever people so puzzle about ?
The matter be quite clear .
As it seem it will not take long to reach the island why not send the seventh Simon ?
He will steal the fair maiden fast enough , and then the king , her father , may consider how he be go to bring his army over here -- it will take him ten year to do it !
-- no less !
What do you think of my plan ? '
` What do I think ?
Why , that your idea be capital , and you shall be reward for it .
Come , guard , hurry as fast a you can and bring the seventh Simon before me . '
Not many minute later , Simon the seventh stood before the king , who explain to him what he wish do , and also that to steal for the benefit of his king and country be by no mean a wrong thing , though it be very wrong to steal for his own advantage .
The young Simon , who look very pale and hungry , only nod his head .
` Come , ' say the king , ` tell me truly .
Do you think you could steal the Princess Helena ? '
` Why should I not steal her , sire ?
The thing be easy enough .
Let my brother 's ship be lade with rich stuff , brocade , Persian carpet , pearl and jewel .
Send me in the ship .
Give me my four middle brother a companion , and keep the two others a hostage . '
When the king heard these word his heart become fill with longing , and he order all to be do a Simon wish .
Every one ran about to do his bidding ; and in next to no time the wonder-ship be laden and ready to start .
The five Simons take leave of the king , go on board , and have no sooner set sail than they be almost out of sight .
The ship cut through the water like a falcon through the air , and just a week after start sight the Island of Busan .
The coast appear to be strongly guard , and from afar the watchman on a high tower call out : ` Halt and anchor !
Who be you ?
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
The seventh Simon answer from the ship : ` We be peaceful people .
We come from the country of the great and good King Archidej , and we bring foreign ware -- rich brocade , carpet , and costly jewel , which we wish to show to your king and the princess .
We desire to trade -- to sell , to buy , and to exchange . '
The brother launch a small boat , take some of their valuable good with them , row to shore and go up to the palace .
The princess sit in a rose-red room , and when she saw the brother come near she call her nurse and other woman , and tell them to inquire who and what these people be , and what they want .
The seventh Simon answer the nurse : ` We come from the country of the wise and good King Archidej , ' say he , ` and we have bring all sort of good for sale .
We trust the king of this country may condescend to welcome u , and to let his servant take charge of our ware .
If he consider them worthy to adorn his follower we shall be content . '
This speech be repeat to the princess , who order the brother to be bring to the red-room at once .
They bow respectfully to her and display some splendid velvet and brocade , and open case of pearl and precious stone .
Such beautiful thing have never be see in the island , and the nurse and wait woman stand bewilder by all the magnificence .
They whisper together that they have never behold anything like it .
The princess too saw and wonder , and her eye could not weary of look at the lovely thing , or her finger of stroke the rich soft stuff , and of hold up the sparkling jewel to the light .
` Fairest of princess , ' say Simon .
` Be please to order your waiting-maids to accept the silk and velvet , and let your woman trim their head-dresses with the jewel ; these be no special treasure .
But permit me to say that they be a nothing to the many coloured tapestry , the gorgeous stone and rope of pearl in our ship .
We do not like to bring more with u , not know what your royal taste might be ; but if it seem good to you to honour our ship with a visit , you might condescend to choose such thing a be please in your eye . '
This polite speech please the princess very much .
She go to the king and say : ` Dear father , some merchant have arrive with the most splendid ware .
Pray allow me to go to their ship and choose out what I like . '
The king thought and thought , frown hard and rub his ear .
At last he give consent , and order out his royal yacht , with 100 cross-bows , 100 knight , and 1,000 soldier , to escort the Princess Helena .
Off sail the yacht with the princess and her escort .
The brother Simon come on board to conduct the princess to their ship , and , lead by the brother and follow by her nurse and other woman , she cross the crystal plank from one vessel to another .
The seventh Simon spread out his good , and have so many curious and interesting tale to tell about them , that the princess forget everything else in look and listening , so that she do not know that the fourth Simon have seize the prow of the ship , and that all of a sudden it have vanish from sight , and be race along in the depth of the sea .
The crew of the royal yacht shout aloud , the knight stand still with terror , the soldier be strike dumb and hang their head .
There be nothing to be do but to sail back and tell the king of his loss .
How he weep and storm !
` Oh , light of my eye , ' he sob ; ' I be indeed punish for my pride .
I think no one good enough to be your husband , and now you be lose in the depth of the sea , and have leave me alone !
As for all of you who saw this thing -- away with you !
Let them be put in iron and lock them up in prison , whilst I think how I can best put them to death ! '
Whilst the King of Busan be rag and lament in this fashion , Simon 's ship be swim like any fish under the sea , and when the island be well out of sight he bring it up to the surface again .
At that moment the princess recollect herself .
` Nurse , ' say she , ` we have be gaze at these wonder only too long .
I hope my father wo n't be vex at our delay . '
She tear herself away and step on deck .
Neither the yacht nor the island be in sight !
Helena wring her hand and beat her breast .
Then she change herself into a white swan and fly off .
But the fifth Simon seize his bow and shoot the swan , and the sixth Simon do not let it fall into the water but catch it in the ship , and the swan turn into a silver fish , but Simon lose no time and catch the fish , when , quick a thought , the fish turn into a black mouse and run about the ship .
It dart towards a hole , but before it could reach it Simon spring upon it more swiftly than any cat , and then the little mouse turn once more into the beautiful Princess Helena .
Early one morning King Archidej sit thoughtfully at his window gaze out to sea .
His heart be sad and he would neither eat nor drink .
His thought be full of the Princess Helena , who be as lovely a a dream .
Is that a white gull he see fly towards the shore , or be it a sail ?
No , it be no gull , it be the wonder-ship flying along with billowing sail .
Its flag wave , the fiddler play on the wire rigging , the anchor be throw out and the crystal plank laid from the ship to the pier .
The lovely Helena step across the plank .
She shin like the sun , and the star of heaven seem to sparkle in her eye .
Up sprang King Archidej in haste : ` Hurry , hurry , ' he cry .
` Let u hasten to meet her !
Let the bugle sound and the joy bell be rung ! '
And the whole Court swarm with courtier and servant .
Golden carpet be lay down and the great gate throw open to welcome the princess .
King Archidej go out himself , take her by the hand and lead her into the royal apartment .
` Madam , ' say he , ` the fame of your beauty have reach me , but I have not dare to expect such loveliness .
Still I will not keep you here against your will .
If you wish it , the wonder-ship shall take you back to your father and your own country ; but if you will consent to stay here , then reign over me and my country a our queen . '
What more be there to tell ?
It be not hard to guess that the princess listen to the king 's wooing , and their betrothal take place with great pomp and rejoicing .
The brother Simon be send again to the Island of Busan with a letter to the king from his daughter to invite him to their wedding .
And the wonder-ship arrived at the Island of Busan just a all the knight and soldier who have escort the princess be be lead out to execution .
Then the seventh Simon cry out from the ship : ` Stop !
stop !
I bring a letter from the Princess Helena ! '
The King of Busan read the letter over and over again , and order the knight and soldier to be set free .
He entertain King Archidej 's ambassador hospitably , and send his blessing to his daughter , but he could not be bring to attend the wedding .
When the wonder-ship get home King Archidej and Princess Helena be enchant with the news it bring .
The king sent for the seven Simons . '
A thousand thanks to you , my brave fellow , ' he cry .
` Take what gold , silver , and precious stone you will out of my treasury .
Tell me if there be anything else you wish for and I will give it you , my good friend .
Do you wish to be make noble , or to govern town ?
Only speak . '
Then the eldest Simon bow and say : ` We be plain folk , your Majesty , and understand simple thing best .
What figure should we cut a noble or governor ?
Nor do we desire gold .
We have our field which give u food , and as much money a we need .
If you wish to reward u then grant that our land may be free of tax , and of your goodness pardon the seventh Simon .
He be not the first who have be a thief by trade and he will certainly not be the last . '
` So be it , ' say the king ; ` your land shall be free of all tax , and Simon the seventh be pardon . '
Then the king give each brother a goblet of wine and invite them to the wedding feast .
And what a feast that be !
-LSB- From Ungarischen Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Language of Beasts Once upon a time a man have a shepherd who serve him many year faithfully and honestly .
One day , whilst herd his flock , this shepherd hear a hissing sound , come out of the forest near by , which he could not account for .
So he go into the wood in the direction of the noise to try to discover the cause .
When he approach the place he find that the dry grass and leaf be on fire , and on a tree , surround by flame , a snake be coil , hiss with terror .
The shepherd stand wonder how the poor snake could escape , for the wind be blow the flame that way , and soon that tree would be burn like the rest .
Suddenly the snake cry : ' O shepherd !
for the love of heaven save me from this fire ! '
Then the shepherd stretch his staff out over the flame and the snake wind itself round the staff and up to his hand , and from his hand it creep up his arm , and twin itself about his neck .
The shepherd tremble with fright , expect every instant to be sting to death , and say : ` What an unlucky man I be !
Did I rescue you only to be destroy myself ? '
But the snake answer : ` Have no fear ; only carry me home to my father who be the King of the Snakes . '
The shepherd , however , be much too frightened to listen , and say that he could not go away and leave his flock alone ; but the snake say : ` You need not be afraid to leave your flock , no evil shall befall them ; but make all the haste you can . '
So he set off through the wood carry the snake , and after a time he come to a great gateway , make entirely of snake intertwine one with another .
The shepherd stand still with surprise , but the snake round his neck whistle , and immediately all the arch unwound itself .
` When we be come to my father 's house , ' say his own snake to him , ` he will reward you with anything you like to ask -- silver , gold , jewel , or whatever on this earth be most precious ; but take none of all these thing , ask rather to understand the language of beast .
He will refuse it to you a long time , but in the end he will grant it to you . '
Soon after that they arrive at the house of the King of the Snakes , who burst into tear of joy at the sight of his daughter , a he have give her up for dead .
` Where have you be all this time ? '
he ask , directly he could speak , and she tell him that she have be catch in a forest fire , and have be rescue from the flame by the shepherd .
The King of the Snakes , then turn to the shepherd , say to him : ` What reward will you choose for save my child ? '
` Make me to know the language of beast , ' answer the shepherd , ` that be all I desire . '
The king reply : ` Such knowledge would be of no benefit to you , for if I grant it to you and you tell any one of it , you would immediately die ; ask me rather for whatever else you would most like to possess , and it shall be yours . '
But the shepherd answer him : ` Sir , if you wish to reward me for save your daughter , grant me , I pray you , to know the language of beast .
I desire nothing else ' ; and he turn as if to depart .
Then the king call him back , say : ` If nothing else will satisfy you , open your mouth . '
The man obey , and the king spat into it , and say : ` Now spit into my mouth . '
The shepherd do a he be tell , then the King of the Snakes spat again into the shepherd 's mouth .
When they have spat into each other 's mouth three time , the king say : ` Now you know the language of beast , go in peace ; but , if you value your life , beware l you tell any one of it , else you will immediately die . '
So the shepherd set out for home , and on his way through the wood he hear and understand all that be say by the bird , and by every living creature .
When he get back to his sheep he find the flock grazing peacefully , and a he be very tired he lay himself down by them to rest a little .
Hardly have he do so when two raven fly down and perch on a tree near by , and begin to talk to each other in their own language : ` If that shepherd only know that there be a vault full of gold and silver beneath where that lamb be lie , what would he not do ? '
When the shepherd heard these word he go straight to his master and tell him , and the master at once take a waggon , and break open the door of the vault , and they carry off the treasure .
But instead of keep it for himself , the master , who be an honourable man , give it all up to the shepherd , say : ` Take it , it be yours .
The god have give it to you . '
So the shepherd take the treasure and build himself a house .
He marry a wife , and they live in great peace and happiness , and he be acknowledge to be the rich man , not only of his native village , but of all the country-side .
He have flock of sheep , and cattle , and horse without end , as well a beautiful clothes and jewel .
One day , just before Christmas , he say to his wife : ` Prepare everything for a great feast , to-morrow we will take thing with u to the farm that the shepherd there may make merry . '
The wife obey , and all be prepare a he desire .
Next day they both go to the farm , and in the even the master say to the shepherd : ` Now come , all of you , eat , drink , and make merry .
I will watch the flock myself to-night in your stead . '
Then he go out to spend the night with the flock .
When midnight strike the wolf howl and the dog bark , and the wolf speak in their own tongue , say : ` Shall we come in and work havoc , and you too shall eat flesh ? '
And the dog answer in their tongue : ` Come in , and for once we shall have enough to eat . '
Now amongst the dog there be one so old that he have only two teeth leave in his head , and he speak to the wolf , say : ` So long a I have my two teeth still in my head , I will let no harm be do to my master . '
All this the master heard and understood , and as soon a morning dawn he order all the dog to be kill except the old dog .
The farm servant wonder at this order , and exclaim : ` But surely , sir , that would be a pity ? '
The master answer : ` Do a I bid you ' ; and make ready to return home with his wife , and they mount their horse , her steed be a mare .
As they go on their way , it happen that the husband rode on ahead , while the wife be a little way behind .
The husband 's horse , see this , neigh , and say to the mare : ` Come along , make haste ; why be you so slow ? '
And the mare answer : ` It be very easy for you , you carry only your master , who be a thin man , but I carry my mistress , who be so fat that she weight as much a three . '
When the husband heard that he look back and laugh , which the wife perceiving , she urge on the mare till she catch up with her husband , and ask him why he laugh .
` For nothing at all , ' he answer ; ` just because it come into my head . '
She would not be satisfy with this answer , and urge him more and more to tell her why he have laugh .
But he control himself and say : ` Let me be , wife ; what ail you ?
I do not know myself why I laugh . '
But the more he put her off , the more she torment him to tell her the cause of his laughter .
At length he say to her : ` Know , then , that if I tell it you I shall immediately and surely die . '
But even this do not quiet her ; she only beseech him the more to tell her .
Meanwhile they have reach home , and before get down from his horse the man call for a coffin to be bring ; and when it be there he place it in front of the house , and say to his wife : ` See , I will lay myself down in this coffin , and will then tell you why I laugh , for as soon a I have tell you I shall surely die . '
So he lay down in the coffin , and while he take a last look around him , his old dog come out from the farm and sit down by him , and whine .
When the master saw this , he call to his wife : ` Bring a piece of bread to give to the dog . '
The wife bring some bread and throw it to the dog , but he would not look at it .
Then the farm cock come and peck at the bread ; but the dog say to it : ` Wretched glutton , you can eat like that when you see that your master be die ? '
The cock answer : ` Let him die , if he be so stupid .
I have a hundred wife , which I call together when I find a grain of corn , and as soon a they be there I swallow it myself ; should one of them dare to be angry , I would give her a lesson with my beak .
He have only one wife , and he can not keep her in order . '
As soon a the man understood this , he get up out of the coffin , seize a stick , and call his wife into the room , say : ` Come , and I will tell you what you so much want to know ' ; and then he begin to beat her with the stick , say with each blow : ` It be that , wife , it be that ! '
And in this way he teach her never again to ask why he have laugh .
The Boy Who Could Keep A Secret Once upon a time there live a poor widow who have one little boy .
At first sight you would not have think that he be different from a thousand other little boy ; but then you notice that by his side hang the scabbard of a sword , and a the boy grow big the scabbard grow big too .
The sword which belong to the scabbard be find by the little boy stick out of the ground in the garden , and every day he pull it up to see if it would go into the scabbard .
But though it be plainly become longer and longer , it be some time before the two would fit .
However , there come a day at last when it slip in quite easily .
The child be so delighted that he could hardly believe his eye , so he try it seven time , and each time it slip in more easily than before .
But please though the boy be , he determine not to tell anyone about it , particularly not his mother , who never could keep anything from her neighbour .
Still , in spite of his resolution , he could not hide altogether that something have happen , and when he go in to breakfast his mother ask him what be the matter .
` Oh , mother , I have such a nice dream last night , ' say he ; ` but I ca n't tell it to anybody . '
` You can tell it to me , ' she answer .
` It must have be a nice dream , or you would n't look so happy . '
` No , mother ; I ca n't tell it to anybody , ' return the boy , 'till it come true . ' '
I want to know what it be , and know it I will , ' cry she , ` and I will beat you till you tell me . '
But it be no use , neither word nor blow would get the secret out of the boy ; and when her arm be quite tired and she have to leave off , the child , sore and aching , run into the garden and kneel weep beside his little sword .
It be work round and round in it hole all by itself , and if anyone except the boy have try to catch hold of it , he would have be badly cut .
But the moment he stretch out his hand it stop and slid quietly into the scabbard .
For a long time the child sit sobbing , and the noise be hear by the king a he be drive by .
` Go and see who it be that be cry so , ' say he to one of his servant , and the man go .
In a few minute he return say : ` Your Majesty , it be a little boy who be kneel there sob because his mother have beat him . '
` Bring him to me at once , ' command the monarch , ` and tell him that it be the king who send for him , and that he have never cry in all his life and can not bear anyone else to do so . '
On receive this message the boy dry his tear and go with the servant to the royal carriage .
` Will you be my son ? '
ask the king .
` Yes , if my mother will let me , ' answer the boy .
And the king bid the servant go back to the mother and say that if she would give her boy to him , he should live in the palace and marry his pretty daughter as soon a he be a man .
The widow 's anger now turn into joy , and she come run to the splendid coach and kiss the king 's hand . '
I hope you will be more obedient to his Majesty than you be to me , ' she say ; and the boy shrink away half-frightened .
But when she have go back to her cottage , he ask the king if he might fetch something that he have leave in the garden , and when he be give permission , he pull up his little sword , which he slide into the scabbard .
Then he climb into the coach and be drive away .
After they have go some distance the king say : ` Why be you cry so bitterly in the garden just now ? '
` Because my mother have be beat me , ' reply the boy .
` And what do she do that for ? '
ask the king again .
` Because I would not tell her my dream . '
` And why would n't you tell it to her ? '
` Because I will never tell it to anyone till it come true , ' answer the boy .
` And wo n't you tell it to me either ? '
ask the king in surprise .
` No , not even to you , your Majesty , ' reply he .
` Oh , I be sure you will when we get home , ' say the king smiling , and he talk to him about other thing till they come to the palace . '
I have bring you such a nice present , ' he say to his daughter , and a the boy be very pretty they be delight to have him and give him all their best toy .
` You must not spoil him , ' observe the king one day , when he have be watch them play together .
He have a secret which he wo n't tell to anyone . '
` He will tell me , ' answer the eldest princess ; but the boy only shake his head .
` He will tell me , ' say the second girl .
` Not I , ' reply the boy .
` He will tell me , ' cry the young , who be the pretty too . '
I will tell nobody till it come true , ' say the boy , a he have say before ; ` and I will beat anybody who ask me . '
The king be very sorry when he hear this , for he love the boy dearly ; but he think it would never do to keep anyone near him who would not do a he be bid .
So he command his servant to take him away and not to let him enter the palace again until he have come to his right sens .
The sword clank loudly a the boy be lead away , but the child say nothing , though he be very unhappy at be treat so badly when he have do nothing .
However , the servant be very kind to him , and their child bring him fruit and all sort of nice thing , and he soon grow merry again , and live amongst them for many year till his seventeenth birthday .
Meanwhile the two eldest princess have become woman , and have marry two powerful king who rule over great country across the sea .
The young one be old enough to be marry too , but she be very particular , and turn up her nose at all the young prince who have seek her hand .
One day she be sit in the palace feel rather dull and lonely , and suddenly she begin to wonder what the servant be do , and whether it be not more amuse down in their quarter .
The king be at his council and the queen be ill in bed , so there be no one to stop the princess , and she hastily run across the garden to the house where the servant live .
Outside she notice a youth who be handsome than any prince she have ever see , and in a moment she know him to be the little boy she have once play with .
` Tell me your secret and I will marry you , ' she say to him ; but the boy only give her the beating he have promise her long ago , when she ask him the same question .
The girl be very angry , besides be hurt , and run home to complain to her father .
` If he have a thousand soul , I would kill them all , ' swear the king .
That very day a gallows be build outside the town , and all the people crowd round to see the execution of the young man who have dare to beat the king 's daughter .
The prisoner , with his hand tie behind his back , be bring out by the hangman , and amidst dead silence his sentence be be read by the judge when suddenly the sword clank against his side .
Instantly a great noise be hear and a golden coach rumble over the stone , with a white flag wave out of the window .
It stop underneath the gallows , and from it step the king of the Magyars , who beg that the life of the boy might be spar .
` Sir , he have beat my daughter , who only ask him to tell her his secret .
I can not pardon that , ' answer the princess 's father .
` Give him to me , I 'm sure he will tell me the secret ; or , if not , I have a daughter who be like the Morning Star , and he be sure to tell it to her . '
The sword clank for the third time , and the king say angrily : ` Well , if you want him so much you can have him ; only never let me see his face again . '
And he make a sign to the hangman .
The bandage be remove from the young man 's eye , and the cord from his wrist , and he take his seat in the golden coach beside the king of the Magyars .
Then the coachman whip up his horse , and they set out for Buda .
The king talk very pleasantly for a few mile , and when he think that his new companion be quite at ease with him , he ask him what be the secret which have bring him into such trouble .
` That I can not tell you , ' answer the youth , ` until it come true . '
` You will tell my daughter , ' say the king , smile . '
I will tell nobody , ' reply the youth , and a he speak the sword clank loudly .
The king say no more , but trust to his daughter 's beauty to get the secret from him .
The journey to Buda be long , and it be several day before they arrive there .
The beautiful princess happen to be pick rose in the garden , when her father 's coach drive up .
` Oh , what a handsome youth !
Have you bring him from fairyland ? '
cry she , when they all stand upon the marble step in front of the castle . '
I have bring him from the gallows , ' answer the king ; rather vexed at his daughter 's word , a never before have she consent to speak to any man . '
I do n't care where you bring him from , ' say the spoilt girl . '
I will marry him and nobody else , and we will live together till we die . '
` You will tell another tale , ' reply the king , ` when you ask him his secret .
After all he be no good than a servant . '
` That be nothing to me , ' say the princess , ` for I love him .
He will tell his secret to me , and will find a place in the middle of my heart . '
But the king shake his head , and give order that the lad be to be lodge in the summer-house .
One day , about a week later , the princess put on her fine dress , and go to pay him a visit .
She look so beautiful that , at the sight of her , the book drop from his hand , and he stand up speechless .
` Tell me , ' she say , coaxingly , ` what be this wonderful secret ?
Just whisper it in my ear , and I will give you a kiss . '
` My angel , ' he answer , ` be wise , and ask no question , if you wish to get safely back to your father 's palace ; I have keep my secret all these year , and do not mean to tell it now . '
However , the girl would not listen , and go on press him , till at last he slap her face so hard that her nose bleed .
She shriek with pain and rage , and run scream back to the palace , where her father be wait to hear if she have succeed . '
I will starve you to death , you son of a dragon , ' cry he , when he saw her dress stream with blood ; and he order all the mason and bricklayer in the town to come before him .
` Build me a tower a fast a you can , ' he say , ` and see that there be room for a stool and a small table , and for nothing else .
The men set to work , and in two hour the tower be build , and they proceed to the palace to inform the king that his command be fulfil .
On the way they meet the princess , who begin to talk to one of the mason , and when the rest be out of hear she ask if he could manage to make a hole in the tower , which nobody could see , large enough for a bottle of wine and some food to pass through .
` To be sure I can , ' say the mason , turn back , and in a few minute the hole be bore .
At sunset a large crowd assemble to watch the youth be lead to the tower , and after his misdeed have be proclaim he be solemnly wall up .
But every morning the princess pass him in food through the hole , and every third day the king send his secretary to climb up a ladder and look down through a little window to see if he be dead .
But the secretary always bring back the report that he be fat and rosy .
` There be some magic about this , ' say the king .
This state of affair last some time , till one day a messenger arrive from the Sultan bear a letter for the king , and also three cane .
` My master bid me say , ' say the messenger , bow low , ` that if you can not tell him which of these three cane grow nearest the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will declare war against you .
The king be very much frighten when he hear this , and though he take the cane and examine them closely , he could see no difference between them .
He look so sad that his daughter notice it , and inquire the reason .
` Alas !
my daughter , ' he answer , ` how can I help be sad ?
The Sultan have send me three cane , and say that if I can not tell him which of them grows near the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will make war upon me .
And you know that his army be far great than mine . '
` Oh , do not despair , my father , ' say she .
` We shall be sure to find out the answer ' ; and she run away to the tower , and tell the young man what have occur .
` Go to bed a usual , ' reply he , ` and when you wake , tell your father that you have dream that the cane must be place in warm water .
After a little while one will sink to the bottom ; that be the one that grow nearest the root .
The one which neither sink nor come to the surface be the cane that be cut from the middle ; and the one that float be from the top . '
So , the next morning , the princess tell her father of her dream , and by her advice he cut notch in each of the cane when he take them out of the water , so that he might make no mistake when he hand them back to the messenger .
The Sultan could not imagine how he have find out , but he do not declare war .
The following year the Sultan again want to pick a quarrel with the king of the Magyars , so he send another messenger to him with three foal , beg him to say which of the animal be bear in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening .
If an answer be not ready in three day , war would be declare at once .
The king 's heart sink when he read the letter .
He could not expect his daughter to be lucky enough to dream rightly a second time , and a a plague have be rag through the country , and have carry off many of his soldier , his army be even weak than before .
At this think his face become so gloomy that his daughter notice it , and inquire what be the matter . '
I have have another letter from the Sultan , ' reply the king , ` and he say that if I can not tell him which of three foal be bear in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening , he will declare war at once . '
` Oh , do n't be cast down , ' say she , ` something be sure to happen ' ; and she run down to the tower to consult the youth .
` Go home , idol of my heart , and when night come , pretend to scream out in your sleep , so that your father hears you .
Then tell him that you have dreamt that he be just be carry off by the Turks because he could not answer the question about the foal , when the lad whom he have shut up in the tower run up and tell them which be foal in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening . '
So the princess do exactly a the youth have bid her ; and no sooner have she speak than the king order the tower to be pull down , and the prisoner bring before him . '
I do not think that you could have live so long without food , ' say he , ` and a you have have plenty of time to repent your wicked conduct , I will grant you pardon , on condition that you help me in a sore strait .
Read this letter from the Sultan ; you will see that if I fail to answer his question about the foal , a dreadful war will be the result . '
The youth take the letter and read it through .
` Yes , I can help you , ' reply he ; ` but first you must bring me three trough , all exactly alike .
Into one you must put oat , into another wheat , and into the third barley .
The foal which eat the oat be that which be foal in the morning ; the foal which eat the wheat be that which be foal at noon ; and the foal which eat the barley be that which be foal at night . '
The king follow the youth 's direction , and , mark the foal , send them back to Turkey , and there be no war that year .
Now the Sultan be very angry that both his plot to get possession of Hungary have be such total failure , and he send for his aunt , who be a witch , to consult her a to what he should do next .
` It be not the king who have answer your question , ' observe the aunt , when he have tell his story .
` He be far too stupid ever to have do that !
The person who have find out the puzzle be the son of a poor woman , who , if he live , will become King of Hungary .
Therefore , if you want the crown yourself , you must get him here and kill him . '
After this conversation another letter be write to the Court of Hungary , say that if the youth , now in the palace , be not send to Turkey within three day , a large army would cross the border .
The king 's heart be sorrowful a he read , for he be grateful to the lad for what he have do to help him ; but the boy only laugh , and bid the king fear nothing , but to search the town instantly for two youth just like each other , and he would paint himself a mask that be just like them .
And the sword at his side clank loudly .
After a long search twin brother be find , so exactly resemble each other that even their own mother could not tell the difference .
The youth paint a mask that be the precise copy of them , and when he have put it on , no one would have know one boy from the other .
They set out at once for the Sultan 's palace , and when they reach it , they be take straight into his presence .
He make a sign for them to come near ; they all bow low in greeting .
He ask them about their journey ; they answer his question all together , and in the same word .
If one sit down to supper , the others sit down at the same instant .
When one get up , the others get up too , a if there have be only one body between them .
The Sultan could not detect any difference between them , and he tell his aunt that he would not be so cruel a to kill all three .
` Well , you will see a difference to-morrow , ' reply the witch , ` for one will have a cut on his sleeve .
That be the youth you must kill . '
And one hour before midnight , when witch be invisible , she glide into the room where all three lad be sleep in the same bed .
She take out a pair of scissors and cut a small piece out of the boy 's coat-sleeve which be hang on the wall , and then creep silently from the room .
But in the morning the youth saw the slit , and he mark the sleeve of his two companion in the same way , and all three go down to breakfast with the Sultan .
The old witch be stand in the window and pretend not to see them ; but all witch have eye in the back of their head , and she know at once that not one sleeve but three be cut , and they be all as alike a before .
After breakfast , the Sultan , who be get tire of the whole affair and want to be alone to invent some other plan , tell them they might return home .
So , bow low with one accord , they go .
The princess welcome the boy back joyfully , but the poor youth be not allow to rest long in peace , for one day a fresh letter arrive from the Sultan , say that he have discover that the young man be a very dangerous person , and that he must be send to Turkey at once , and alone .
The girl burst into tear when the boy tell her what be in the letter which her father have bid her to carry to him .
` Do not weep , love of my heart , ' say the boy , ` all will be well .
I will start at sunrise to-morrow . '
So next morning at sunrise the youth set forth , and in a few day he reach the Sultan 's palace .
The old witch be wait for him at the gate , and whisper a he pass : ` This be the last time you will ever enter it . '
But the sword clank , and the lad do not even look at her .
As he cross the threshold fifteen arm Turks bar his way , with the Sultan at their head .
Instantly the sword dart forth and cut off the head of everyone but the Sultan , and then go quietly back to it scabbard .
The witch , who be look on , saw that as long a the youth have possession of the sword , all her scheme would be in vain , and try to steal the sword in the night , but it only jump out of it scabbard and slice off her nose , which be of iron .
And in the morning , when the Sultan bring a great army to capture the lad and deprive him of his sword , they be all cut to piece , while he remain without a scratch .
Meanwhile the princess be in despair because the day slip by , and the young man do not return , and she never rest until her father let her lead some troop against the Sultan .
She ride proudly before them , dress in uniform ; but they have not leave the town more than a mile behind them , when they meet the lad and his little sword .
When he tell them what he have do they shout for joy , and carry him back in triumph to the palace ; and the king declare that a the youth have show himself worthy to become his son-in-law , he should marry the princess and succeed to the throne at once , a he himself be get old , and the care of government be too much for him .
But the young man say he must first go and see his mother , and the king send him in state , with a troop of soldier a his bodyguard .
The old woman be quite frighten at see such an array draw up before her little house , and still more surprised when a handsome young man , whom she do not know , dismount and kiss her hand , say : ` Now , dear mother , you shall hear my secret at last !
I dream that I should become King of Hungary , and my dream have come true .
When I be a child , and you beg me to tell you , I have to keep silence , or the Magyar king would have kill me .
And if you have not beat me nothing would have happen that have happen , and I should not now be King of Hungary . '
-LSB- From the Folk Tales of the Magyars . -RSB-
The Prince And The Dragon Once upon a time there live an emperor who have three son .
They be all fine young men , and fond of hunting , and scarcely a day pass without one or other of them go out to look for game .
One morning the eldest of the three prince mount his horse and set out for a neighbouring forest , where wild animal of all sort be to be find .
He have not long leave the castle , when a hare spring out of a thicket and dash across the road in front .
The young man give chase at once , and pursue it over hill and dale , till at last the hare take refuge in a mill which be stand by the side of a river .
The prince follow and enter the mill , but stop in terror by the door , for , instead of a hare , before him stand a dragon , breathe fire and flame .
At this fearful sight the prince turn to fly , but a fiery tongue coil round his waist , and draw him into the dragon 's mouth , and he be see no more .
A week pass away , and when the prince never come back everyone in the town begin to grow uneasy .
At last his next brother tell the emperor that he likewise would go out to hunt , and that perhaps he would find some clue a to his brother 's disappearance .
But hardly have the castle gate close on the prince than the hare spring out of the bush a before , and lead the huntsman up hill and down dale , till they reach the mill .
Into this the hare fly with the prince at his heel , when , lo !
instead of the hare , there stand a dragon breathing fire and flame ; and out shot a fiery tongue which coil round the prince 's waist , and lift him straight into the dragon 's mouth , and he be see no more .
Days go by , and the emperor wait and wait for the son who never come , and could not sleep at night for wonder where they be and what have become of them .
His young son wish to go in search of his brother , but for long the emperor refuse to listen to him , lest he should lose him also .
But the prince pray so hard for leave to make the search , and promise so often that he would be very cautious and careful , that at length the emperor give him permission , and order the best horse in the stable to be saddle for him .
Full of hope the young prince start on his way , but no sooner be he outside the city wall than a hare spring out of the bush and run before him , till they reach the mill .
As before , the animal dash in through the open door , but this time he be not follow by the prince .
Wiser than his brother , the young man turn away , say to himself : ` There be a good hare in the forest a any that have come out of it , and when I have catch them , I can come back and look for you . '
For many hour he ride up and down the mountain , but saw nothing , and at last , tire of waiting , he go back to the mill .
Here he find an old woman sit , whom he greet pleasantly .
` Good morning to you , little mother , ' he say ; and the old woman answer : ` Good morning , my son . '
` Tell me , little mother , ' go on the prince , ` where shall I find my hare ? '
` My son , ' reply the old woman , ` that be no hare , but a dragon who have lead many men hither , and then have eat them all . '
At these word the prince 's heart grow heavy , and he cry , ` Then my brother must have come here , and have be eat by the dragon ! '
` You have guess right , ' answer the old woman ; ` and I can give you no good counsel than to go home at once , before the same fate overtakes you . '
` Will you not come with me out of this dreadful place ? '
say the young man .
` He take me prisoner , too , ' answer she , ` and I can not shake off his chain . '
` Then listen to me , ' cry the prince .
` When the dragon come back , ask him where he always go when he leave here , and what make him so strong ; and when you have coax the secret from him , tell me the next time I come . '
So the prince go home , and the old woman remain in the mill , and as soon a the dragon return she say to him : ` Where have you be all this time -- you must have travel far ? '
` Yes , little mother , I have indeed travel far . '
answer he .
Then the old woman begin to flatter him , and to praise his cleverness ; and when she think she have get him into a good temper , she say : ' I have wonder so often where you get your strength from ; I do wish you would tell me .
I would stoop and kiss the place out of pure love ! '
The dragon laugh at this , and answer : ` In the hearthstone yonder lie the secret of my strength . '
Then the old woman jump up and kiss the hearth ; whereat the dragon laugh the more , and say : ` You foolish creature !
I be only jest .
It be not in the hearthstone , but in that tall tree that lie the secret of my strength . '
Then the old woman jump up again and put her arm round the tree , and kiss it heartily .
Loudly laugh the dragon when he saw what she be do .
` Old fool , ' he cry , as soon a he could speak , ` do you really believe that my strength come from that tree ? '
` Where be it then ? '
ask the old woman , rather crossly , for she do not like be make fun of .
` My strength , ' reply the dragon , ` lie far away ; so far that you could never reach it .
Far , far from here be a kingdom , and by it capital city be a lake , and in the lake be a dragon , and inside the dragon be a wild boar , and inside the wild boar be a pigeon , and inside the pigeon a sparrow , and inside the sparrow be my strength . '
And when the old woman heard this , she think it be no use flatter him any longer , for never , never , could she take his strength from him .
The following morning , when the dragon have leave the mill , the prince come back , and the old woman tell him all that the creature have say .
He listen in silence , and then return to the castle , where he put on a suit of shepherd 's clothes , and take a staff in his hand , he go forth to seek a place a tender of sheep .
For some time he wander from village to village and from town to town , till he come at length to a large city in a distant kingdom , surround on three side by a great lake , which happen to be the very lake in which the dragon live .
As be his custom , he stop everybody whom he meet in the street that look likely to want a shepherd and beg them to engage him , but they all seem to have shepherd of their own , or else not to need any .
The prince be begin to lose heart , when a man who have overhear his question turn round and say that he have well go and ask the emperor , a he be in search of some one to see after his flock .
` Will you take care of my sheep ? '
say the emperor , when the young man kneel before him .
` Most willingly , your Majesty , ' answer the young man , and he listen obediently while the emperor tell him what he be to do .
` Outside the city wall , ' go on the emperor , ` you will find a large lake , and by it bank lie the rich meadow in my kingdom .
When you be lead out your flock to pasture , they will all run straight to these meadow , and none that have go there have ever be know to come back .
Take heed , therefore , my son , not to suffer your sheep to go where they will , but drive them to any spot that you think best . '
With a low bow the prince thank the emperor for his warning , and promise to do his best to keep the sheep safe .
Then he leave the palace and go to the market-place , where he buy two greyhound , a hawk , and a set of pipe ; after that he take the sheep out to pasture .
The instant the animal catch sight of the lake lie before them , they trot off as fast a their leg would go to the green meadow lie round it .
The prince do not try to stop them ; he only place his hawk on the branch of a tree , lay his pipe on the grass , and bid the greyhound sit still ; then , roll up his sleeve and trouser , he wad into the water cry a he do so : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you be not a coward , come out and fight with me ! '
And a voice answer from the depth of the lake : ' I be wait for you , O prince ' ; and the next minute the dragon rear himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
The prince sprang upon him and they grapple with each other and fought together till the sun be high , and it be noonday .
Then the dragon gasp : ' O prince , let me dip my burn head once into the lake , and I will hurl you up to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answer , ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter be only here , and would kiss me on the forehead , I would throw you up high still ! '
And suddenly the dragon 's hold loosen , and he fell back into the lake .
As soon a it be even , the prince wash away all sign of the fight , take his hawk upon his shoulder , and his pipe under his arm , and with his greyhound in front and his flock follow after him he set out for the city .
As they all pass through the street the people star in wonder , for never before have any flock return from the lake .
The next morning he rise early , and lead his sheep down the road to the lake .
This time , however , the emperor send two men on horseback to ride behind him , with order to watch the prince all day long .
The horseman keep the prince and his sheep in sight , without be see themselves .
As soon a they behold the sheep run towards the meadow , they turn aside up a steep hill , which overhang the lake .
When the shepherd reach the place he lay , a before , his pipe on the grass and bid the greyhound sit beside them , while the hawk he perch on the branch of the tree .
Then he roll up his trouser and his sleeve , and wad into the water cry : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you be not a coward , come out and fight with me ! '
And the dragon answer : ' I be wait for you , O prince , ' and the next minute he rear himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
Again they clasp each other tight round the body and fought till it be noon , and when the sun be at it hot , the dragon gasp : ' O prince , let me dip my burn head once in the lake , and I will hurl you up to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answer : ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter be only here , and would kiss me on the forehead , I would throw you up high still ! '
And suddenly the dragon 's hold loosen , and he fell back into the lake .
As soon a it be even the prince again collect his sheep , and play on his pipe he march before them into the city .
When he pass through the gate all the people come out of their house to stare in wonder , for never before have any flock return from the lake .
Meanwhile the two horseman have ride quickly back , and tell the emperor all that they have see and hear .
The emperor listen eagerly to their tale , then call his daughter to him and repeat it to her .
` To-morrow , ' he say , when he have finish , ` you shall go with the shepherd to the lake , and then you shall kiss him on the forehead a he wish . '
But when the princess heard these word , she burst into tear , and sob out : ` Will you really send me , your only child , to that dreadful place , from which most likely I shall never come back ? '
` Fear nothing , my little daughter , all will be well .
Many shepherd have go to that lake and none have ever return ; but this one have in these two day fight twice with the dragon and have escape without a wound .
So I hope to-morrow he will kill the dragon altogether , and deliver this land from the monster who have slay so many of our brave men . '
Scarcely have the sun begin to peep over the hill next morning , when the princess stood by the shepherd 's side , ready to go to the lake .
The shepherd be brim over with joy , but the princess only weep bitterly .
` Dry your tear , I implore you , ' say he .
` If you will just do what I ask you , and when the time come , run and kiss my forehead , you have nothing to fear . '
Merrily the shepherd blew on his pipe a he march at the head of his flock , only stop every now and then to say to the weep girl at his side : ` Do not cry so , Heart of Gold ; trust me and fear nothing . '
And so they reach the lake .
In an instant the sheep be scatter all over the meadow , and the prince place his hawk on the tree , and his pipe on the grass , while he bid his greyhound lie beside them .
Then he roll up his trouser and his sleeve , and wad into the water , call : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you be not a coward , come forth , and let u have one more fight together . '
And the dragon answer : ' I be wait for you , O prince ' ; and the next minute he rear himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
Swiftly he draw near to the bank , and the prince sprang to meet him , and they grasp each other round the body and fought till it be noon .
And when the sun be at it hot , the dragon cry : ' O prince , let me dip my burn head in the lake , and I will hurl you to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answer : ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter be only here , and she would kiss my forehead , I would throw you high still . '
Hardly have he spoken , when the princess , who have be listen , run up and kiss him on the forehead .
Then the prince swing the dragon straight up into the cloud , and when he touch the earth again , he break into a thousand piece .
Out of the piece there spring a wild boar and gallop away , but the prince call his hound to give chase , and they catch the boar and tear it to bit .
Out of the piece there spring a hare , and in a moment the greyhound be after it , and they catch it and kill it ; and out of the hare there come a pigeon .
Quickly the prince let loose his hawk , which soar straight into the air , then swoop upon the bird and bring it to his master .
The prince cut open it body and find the sparrow inside , a the old woman have say .
` Now , ' cry the prince , hold the sparrow in his hand , ` now you shall tell me where I can find my brother . '
` Do not hurt me , ' answer the sparrow , ` and I will tell you with all my heart . '
Behind your father 's castle stand a mill , and in the mill be three slender twig .
Cut off these twig and strike their root with them , and the iron door of a cellar will open .
In the cellar you will find a many people , young and old , woman and child , a would fill a kingdom , and among them be your brother . '
By this time twilight have fall , so the prince wash himself in the lake , take the hawk on his shoulder and the pipe under his arm , and with his greyhound before him and his flock behind him , march gaily into the town , the princess follow them all , still tremble with fright .
And so they pass through the street , throng with a wondering crowd , till they reach the castle .
Unknown to anyone , the emperor have steal out on horseback , and have hide himself on the hill , where he could see all that happen .
When all be over , and the power of the dragon be break for ever , he ride quickly back to the castle , and be ready to receive the prince with open arm , and to promise him his daughter to wife .
The wedding take place with great splendour , and for a whole week the town be hang with coloured lamp , and table be spread in the hall of the castle for all who choose to come and eat .
And when the feast be over , the prince tell the emperor and the people who he really be , and at this everyone rejoice still more , and preparation be make for the prince and princess to return to their own kingdom , for the prince be impatient to set free his brother .
The first thing he do when he reach his native country be to hasten to the mill , where he find the three twig a the sparrow have tell him .
The moment that he strike the root the iron door fly open , and from the cellar a countless multitude of men and woman stream forth .
He bid them go one by one wheresoever they would , while he himself wait by the door till his brother pass through .
How delighted they be to meet again , and to hear all that the prince have do to deliver them from their enchantment .
And they go home with him and serve him all the day of their life , for they say that he only who have prove himself brave and faithful be fit to be king .
-LSB- From Volksmarehen der Serben . -RSB-
Little Wildrose Once upon a time the thing in this story happen , and if they have not happen then the story would never have be tell .
But that be the time when wolf and lambs lay peacefully together in one stall , and shepherd din on grassy bank with king and queen .
Once upon a time , then , my dear good child , there live a man .
Now this man be really a hundred year old , if not fully twenty year more .
And his wife be very old too -- how old I do not know ; but some say she be as old a the goddess Venus herself .
They have be very happy all these year , but they would have be happy still if they have have any child ; but old though they be they have never make up their mind to do without them , and often they would sit over the fire and talk of how they would have bring up their child if only some have come to their house .
One day the old man seem sad and more thoughtful than be common with him , and at last he say to his wife : ` Listen to me , old woman ! '
` What do you want ? '
ask she .
` Get me some money out of the chest , for I be go a long journey -- all through the world -- to see if I can not find a child , for my heart ache to think that after I be dead my house will fall into the hand of a stranger .
And this let me tell you : that if I never find a child I shall not come home again . '
Then the old man take a bag and fill it with food and money , and throw it over his shoulder , bid his wife farewell .
For long he wander , and wander , and wander , but no child do he see ; and one morning his wandering lead him to a forest which be so thick with tree that no light could pass through the branch .
The old man stop when he saw this dreadful place , and at first be afraid to go in ; but he remember that , after all , a the proverb say : ` It be the unexpected that happen , ' and perhaps in the midst of this black spot he might find the child he be seek .
So summon up all his courage he plunge boldly in .
How long he might have be walk there he never could have tell you , when at last he reach the mouth of a cave where the darkness seem a hundred time darker than the wood itself .
Again he pause , but he felt a if something be drive him to enter , and with a beating heart he step in .
For some minute the silence and darkness so appal him that he stand where he be , not dare to advance one step .
Then he make a great effort and go on a few pace , and suddenly , far before him , he saw the glimmer of a light .
This put new heart into him , and he direct his step straight towards the faint ray , till he could see , sit by it , an old hermit , with a long white beard .
The hermit either do not hear the approach of his visitor , or pretend not to do so , for he take no notice , and continue to read his book .
After wait patiently for a little while , the old man fell on his knee , and say : ` Good morning , holy father ! '
But he might as well have speak to the rock .
` Good morning , holy father , ' he say again , a little loud than before , and this time the hermit make a sign to him to come nearer .
` My son , ' whisper he , in a voice that echo through the cavern , ` what bring you to this dark and dismal place ?
Hundreds of year have pass since my eye have rest on the face of a man , and I do not think to look on one again . '
.
` My misery have bring me here , ' reply the old man ; ' I have no child , and all our life my wife and I have long for one .
So I leave my home , and go out into the world , hop that somewhere I might find what I be seek . '
Then the hermit pick up an apple from the ground , and give it to him , say : ` Eat half of this apple , and give the rest to your wife , and cease wandering through the world . '
The old man stoop and kiss the foot of the hermit for sheer joy , and leave the cave .
He make his way through the forest as fast a the darkness would let him , and at length arrive in flowery field , which dazzle him with their brightness .
Suddenly he be seize with a desperate thirst , and a burning in his throat .
He look for a stream but none be to be see , and his tongue grow more parched every moment .
At length his eye fell on the apple , which all this while he have be hold in his hand , and in his thirst he forget what the hermit have tell him , and instead of eat merely his own half , he eat up the old woman 's also ; after that he go to sleep .
When he wake up he saw something strange lie on a bank a little way off , amidst long trail of pink rose .
The old man get up , rub his eye , and go to see what it be , when , to his surprise and joy , it prove to be a little girl about two year old , with a skin a pink and white a the rose above her .
He take her gently in his arm , but she do not seem at all frighten , and only jump and crow with delight ; and the old man wrap his cloak round her , and set off for home as fast a his leg would carry him .
When they be close to the cottage where they live he lay the child in a pail that be stand near the door , and run into the house , cry : ` Come quickly , wife , quickly , for I have bring you a daughter , with hair of gold and eye like star ! '
At this wonderful news the old woman fly downstairs , almost tumble down ill her eagerness to see the treasure ; but when her husband lead her to the pail it be perfectly empty !
The old man be nearly beside himself with horror , while his wife sit down and sob with grief and disappointment .
There be not a spot round about which they do not search , think that somehow the child might have get out of the pail and hide itself for fun ; but the little girl be not there , and there be no sign of her .
` Where can she be ? '
moan the old man , in despair .
` Oh , why do I ever leave her , even for a moment ?
Have the fairy take her , or have some wild beast carry her off ? '
And they begin their search all over again ; but neither fairy nor wild beast do they meet with , and with sore heart they give it up at last and turn sadly into the hut .
And what have become of the baby ?
Well , find herself leave alone in a strange place she begin to cry with fright , and an eagle hovering near , hear her , and go to see what the sound come from .
When he behold the fat pink and white creature he think of his hungry little one at home , and swoop down he catch her up in his claw and be soon fly with her over the top of the tree .
In a few minute he reach the one in which he have build his nest , and lay little Wildrose -LRB- for so the old man have call her -RRB- among his downy young eaglet , he fly away .
The eaglet naturally be rather surprise at this strange animal , so suddenly pop down in their midst , but instead of begin to eat her , a their father expect , they nestle up close to her and spread out their tiny wing to shield her from the sun .
Now , in the depth of the forest where the eagle have build his nest , there run a stream whose water be poisonous , and on the bank of this stream dwell a horrible lindworm with seven head .
The lindworm have often watch the eagle fly about the top of the tree , carry food to his young one and , accordingly , he watch carefully for the moment when the eaglet begin to try their wing and to fly away from the nest .
Of course , if the eagle himself be there to protect them even the lindworm , big and strong a he be , know that he could do nothing ; but when he be absent , any little eaglet who venture too near the ground would be sure to disappear down the monster 's throat .
Their brother , who have be leave behind a too young and weak to see the world , know nothing of all this , but suppose their turn would soon come to see the world also .
And in a few day their eye , too , open and their wing flap impatiently , and they long to fly away above the wave tree-tops to mountain and the bright sun beyond .
But that very midnight the lindworm , who be hungry and could not wait for his supper , come out of the brook with a rush noise , and make straight for the tree .
Two eye of flame come creep nearer , nearer , and two fiery tongue be stretch themselves out close , closer , to the little bird who be tremble and shudder in the farthest corner of the nest .
But just a the tongue have almost reach them , the lindworm give a fearful cry , and turn and fell backwards .
Then come the sound of battle from the ground below , and the tree shook , though there be no wind , and roar and snarl mixed together , till the eaglet felt more frightened than ever , and think their last hour have come .
Only Wildrose be undisturbed , and sleep sweetly through it all .
In the morning the eagle return and saw trace of a fight below the tree , and here and there a handful of yellow mane lie about , and here and there a hard scaly substance ; when he saw that he rejoice greatly , and hasten to the nest .
` Who have slay the lindworm ? '
he ask of his child ; there be so many that he do not at first miss the two which the lindworm have eat .
But the eaglet answer that they could not tell , only that they have be in danger of their life , and at the last moment they have be deliver .
Then the sunbeam have struggle through the thick branch and catch Wildrose 's golden hair a she lay curl up in the corner , and the eagle wonder , a he look , whether the little girl have bring him luck , and it be her magic which have kill his enemy .
` Children , ' he say , ' I bring her here for your dinner , and you have not touch her ; what be the meaning of this ? '
But the eaglet do not answer , and Wildrose open her eye , and seem seven time lovely than before .
From that day Wildrose live like a little princess .
The eagle fly about the wood and collect the soft , green moss he could find to make her a bed , and then he pick with his beak all the bright and pretty flower in the field or on the mountain to decorate it .
So cleverly do he manage it that there be not a fairy in the whole of the forest who would not have be please to sleep there , rock to and fro by the breeze on the treetop .
And when the little one be able to fly from their nest he teach them where to look for the fruit and berry which she love .
So the time pass by , and with each year Wildrose grow taller and more beautiful , and she live happily in her nest and never want to go out of it , only stand at the edge in the sunset , and look upon the beautiful world .
For company she have all the bird in the forest , who come and talk to her , and for plaything the strange flower which they bring her from far , and the butterfly which dance with her .
And so the day slip away , and she be fourteen year old .
One morning the emperor 's son go out to hunt , and he have not ridden far , before a deer start from under a grove of tree , and run before him .
The prince instantly give chase , and where the stag lead he follow , till at length he find himself in the depth of the forest , where no man before have trod .
The tree be so thick and the wood so dark , that he pause for a moment and listen , strain his ear to catch some sound to break a silence which almost frighten him .
But nothing come , not even the baying of a hound or the note of a horn .
He stand still , and wonder if he should go on , when , on look up , a stream of light seem to flow from the top of a tall tree .
In it ray he could see the nest with the young eaglet , who be watch him over the side .
The prince fit an arrow into his bow and take his aim , but , before he could let fly , another ray of light dazzle him ; so brilliant be it , that his bow drop , and he cover his face with his hand .
When at last he venture to peep , Wildrose , with her golden hair flow round her , be look at him .
This be the first time she have see a man .
` Tell me how I can reach you ? '
cry he ; but Wildrose smile and shake her head , and sit down quietly .
The prince saw that it be no use , and turn and make his way out of the forest .
But he might as well have stay there , for any good he be to his father , so full be his heart of long for Wildrose .
Twice he return to the forest in the hope of find her , but this time fortune fail him , and he go home as sad a ever .
At length the emperor , who could not think what have cause this change , sent for his son and ask him what be the matter .
Then the prince confess that the image of Wildrose fill his soul , and that he would never be happy without her .
At first the emperor felt rather distress .
He doubt whether a girl from a tree top would make a good empress ; but he love his son so much that he promise to do all he could to find her .
So the next morning herald be send forth throughout the whole land to inquire if anyone know where a maiden could be find who live in a forest on the top of a tree , and to promise great rich and a place at court to any person who should find her .
But nobody know .
All the girl in the kingdom have their home on the ground , and laugh at the notion of be bring up in a tree . '
A nice kind of empress she would make , ' they say , a the emperor have do , toss their head with disdain ; for , have read many book , they guess what she be want for .
The herald be almost in despair , when an old woman step out of the crowd and come and speak to them .
She be not only very old , but she be very ugly , with a hump on her back and a bald head , and when the herald saw her they break into rude laughter . '
I can show you the maiden who live in the tree-top , ' she say , but they only laugh the more loudly .
` Get away , old witch ! '
they cry , ` you will bring u bad luck ' ; but the old woman stand firm , and declare that she alone know where to find the maiden .
` Go with her , ' say the eldest of the herald at last .
` The emperor 's order be clear , that whoever know anything of the maiden be to come at once to court .
Put her in the coach and take her with u . '
So in this fashion the old woman be bring to court .
` You have declare that you can bring hither the maiden from the wood ? '
say the emperor , who be seat on his throne .
` Yes , your Majesty , and I will keep my word , ' say she .
` Then bring her at once , ' say the emperor .
` Give me first a kettle and a tripod , ' ask the old w omen , and the emperor order them to be bring instantly .
The old woman pick them up , and tuck them under her arm go on her way , keep at a little distance behind the royal huntsman , who in their turn follow the prince .
Oh , what a noise that old woman make a she walk along !
She chatter to herself so fast and clatter her kettle so loudly that you would have think that a whole campful of gipsy must be come round the next corner .
But when they reach the forest , she bid them all wait outside , and enter the dark wood by herself .
She stop underneath the tree where the maiden dwelt and , gather some dry stick , kindle a fire .
Next , she place the tripod over it , and the kettle on top .
But something be the matter with the kettle .
As fast a the old woman put it where it be to stand , that kettle be sure to roll off , fall to the ground with a crash .
It really seem bewitch , and no one know what might have happen if Wildrose , who have be all the time peep out of her nest , have not lose patience at the old woman 's stupidity , and cry out : ` The tripod wo n't stand on that hill , you must move it ! '
` But where be I to move it to , my child ? '
ask the old woman , look up to the nest , and at the same moment try to steady the kettle with one hand and the tripod with the other .
` Did n't I tell you that it be no good do that , ' say Wildrose , more impatiently than before .
` Make a fire near a tree and hang the kettle from one of the branch . '
The old woman take the kettle and hung it on a little twig , which break at once , and the kettle fell to the ground .
` If you would only show me how to do it , perhaps I should understand , ' say she .
Quick a thought , the maiden slide down the smooth trunk of the tree , and stand beside the stupid old woman , to teach her how thing ought to be do .
But in an instant the old woman have catch up the girl and swung her over her shoulder , and be run as fast a she could go to the edge of the forest , where she have leave the prince .
When he saw them come he rush eagerly to meet them , and he take the maiden in his arm and kiss her tenderly before them all .
Then a golden dress be put on her , and pearl be twin in her hair , and she take her seat in the emperor 's carriage which be draw by six of the white horse in the world , and they carry her , without stop to draw breath , to the gate of the palace .
And in three day the wedding be celebrate , and the wedding feast be hold , and everyone who saw the bride declare that if anybody want a perfect wife they must go to seek her on top of a tree .
-LSB- Adapted from file Roumanian . -RSB-
Tiidu The Piper Once upon a time there live a poor man who have more child than bread to fee them with .
However , they be strong and willing , and soon learn to make themselves of use to their father and mother , and when they be old enough they go out to service , and everyone be very glad to get them for servant , for they work hard and be always cheerful .
Out of all the ten or eleven , there be only one who give his parent any trouble , and this be a big lazy boy whose name be Tiidu .
Neither scolding nor beating nor kind word have any effect on him , and the older he grow the idler he get .
He spend his winter crouch close to a warm stove , and his summer asleep under a shady tree ; and if he be not do either of these thing he be play tune on his flute .
One day he be sit under a bush playing so sweetly that you might easily have mistake the note for those of a bird , when an old man pass by .
` What trade do you wish to follow , my son ? '
he ask in a friendly voice , stop a he do so in front of the youth .
` If I be only a rich man , and have no need to work , ' reply the boy , ' I should not follow any .
I could not bear to be anybody 's servant , a all my brother and sister be . '
The old man laugh a he hear this answer , and say : ` But I do not exactly see where your rich be to come from if you do not work for them .
Sleeping cat catch no mouse .
He who wish to become rich must use either his hand or his head , and be ready to toil night and day , or else -- ' But here the youth break in rudely : ` Be silent , old man !
I have be tell all that a hundred time over ; and it run off me like water off a duck 's back .
No one will ever make a worker out of me . '
` You have one gift , ' reply the old man , take no notice of this speech , ` and if you would only go about and play the pipe , you would easily earn , not only your daily bread , but a little money into the bargain .
Listen to me ; get yourself a set of pipe , and learn to play on them as well a you do on your flute , and wherever there be men to hear you , I promise you will never lack money . '
` But where be I to get the pipe from ? '
ask the youth .
` Blow on your flute for a few day , ' reply the old man , ` and you will soon be able to buy your pipe .
By-and-by I will come back again and see if you have take my advice , and whether you be likely to grow rich . '
And so say he go his way .
Tiidu stay where he be a little long , thinking of all the old man have tell him , and the more he think the surer he felt that the old man be right .
He determine to try whether his plan would really bring luck ; but a he do not like be laugh at he resolve not to tell anyone a word about it .
So next morning he leave home -- and never come back !
His parent do not take his loss much to heart , but be rather glad that their useless son have for once show a little spirit , and they hop that time and hardship might cure Tiidu of his idle folly .
For some week Tiidu wander from one village to another , and prove for himself the truth of the old man 's promise .
The people he meet be all friendly and kind , and enjoy his flute-playing , give him his food in return , and even a few penny .
These penny the youth hoard carefully till he have collect enough to buy a beautiful pair of pipe .
Then he felt himself indeed on the high road to rich .
Nowhere could pip be find as fine a his , or play in so masterly a manner .
Tiidu 's pipe set everybody 's legs dancing .
Wherever there be a marriage , a christening , or a feast of any kind , Tiidu must be there , or the evening would be a failure .
In a few year he have become so noted a piper that people would travel far and wide to hear him .
One day he be invite to a christen where many rich men from the neighbour town be present , and all agree that never in all their life have they hear such playing a his .
They crowd round him , and praise him , and press him to come to their home , declare that it be a shame not to give their friend the chance of hear such music .
Of course all this delighted Tiidu , who accept gladly , and leave their house lade with money and present of every kind ; one great lord clothe him in a magnificent dress , a second hung a chain of pearl round his neck , while a third hand him a set of new pipe encrust in silver .
As for the lady , the girl twist silken scarf round his plumed hat , and their mother knit him glove of all colour , to keep out the cold .
Any other man in Tiidu 's place would have be content and happy in this life ; but his craving for rich give him no rest , and only goad him day by day to fresh exertion , so that even his own mother would not have know him for the lazy boy who be always lie asleep in one place or the other .
Now Tiidu saw quite clearly that he could only hope to become rich by mean of his pipe , and set about think if there be nothing he could do to make the money flow in faster .
At length he remember have hear some story of a kingdom in the Kungla country , where musician of all sort be welcome and highly pay ; but where it be , or how it be reach , he could not recollect , however hard he think .
In despair , he wander along the coast , hop to see some ship or sail boat that would take him where he wish to go , and at length he reach the town of Narva , where several merchantman be lie at anchor .
To his great joy , he find that one of them be sail for Kungla in a few day , and he hastily go on board , and ask for the captain .
But the cost of the passage be more than the prudent Tiidu care to pay , and though he play his best on his pipe , the captain refuse to lower his price , and Tiidu be just think of return on shore when his usual luck fly to his aid .
A young sailor , who have hear him play , come secretly to him , and offer to hide him on board , in the absence of the captain .
So the next night , as soon a it be dark , Tiidu step softly on deck , and be hide by his friend down in the hold in a corner between two cask .
Unseen by the rest of the crew the sailor manage to bring him food and drink , and when they be well out of sight of land he proceed to carry out a plan he have invent to deliver Tiidu from his cramped quarter .
At midnight , while he be keep watch and everyone else be sleep , the man bid his friend Tiidu follow him on deck , where he tie a rope round Tiidu 's body , fasten the other end carefully to one of the ship 's rope .
` Now , ' he say , ' I will throw you into the sea , and you must shout for help ; and when you see the sailor come untie the rope from your waist , and tell them that you have swim after the ship all the way from shore . '
At first Tiidu do not much like this scheme , for the sea run high , but he be a good swimmer , and the sailor assure him that there be no danger .
As soon a he be in the water , his friend hasten to rouse his mate , declare that he be sure that there be a man in the sea , follow the ship .
They all come on deck , and what be their surprise when they recognise the person who have bargain about a passage the previous day with the captain .
` Are you a ghost , or a die man ? '
they ask him tremble , a they stoop over the side of the ship . '
I shall soon indeed be a dead man if you do not help me , ' answer Tiidu , ` for my strength be go fast . '
Then the captain seize a rope and fling it out to him , and Tiidu hold it between his teeth , while , unseen by the sailor ; he loose the one tie round his waist .
` Where have you come from ? '
say the captain , when Tiidu be bring up on board the ship . '
I have follow you from the harbour , ' answer he , ` and have be often in sore dread l my strength should fail me .
I hop that by swim after the ship I might at last reach Kungla , a I have no money to pay my passage . '
The captain 's heart melt at these word , and he say kindly : ` You may be thankful that you be not drown .
I will land you at Kungla free of payment , a you be so anxious to get there .
So he give him dry clothes to wear , and a berth to sleep in , and Tiidu and his friend secretly make merry over their cunning trick .
For the rest of the voyage the ship 's crew treat Tiidu a something high than themselves , see that in all their life they have never meet with any man that could swim for as many hour a he have do .
This pleased Tiidu very much , though he know that he have really do nothing to deserve it , and in return he delight them by tune on his pipe .
When , after some day , they cast anchor at Kungla , the story of his wonderful swim bring him many friend , for everybody wish to hear him tell the tale himself .
This might have be all very well , have not Tiidu live in dread that some day he would be ask to give proof of his marvellous swimming power , and then everything would be find out .
Meanwhile he be dazzle with the splendour around him , and more than ever he long for part of the rich , about which the owner seem to care so little .
He wander through the street for many day , seek some one who want a servant ; but though more than one person would have be glad to engage him , they seem to Tiidu not the sort of people to help him to get rich quickly .
At last , when he have almost make up his mind that he must accept the next place offer him , he happen to knock at the door of a rich merchant who be in need of a scullion , and gladly agree to do the cook 's bidding , and it be in this merchant 's house that he first learn how great be the rich of the land of Kungla .
All the vessel which in other country be make of iron , copper , brass , or tin , in Kungla be make of silver , or even of gold .
The food be cook in silver saucepan , the bread bake in a silver oven , while the dish and their cover be all of gold .
Even the very pigs ' trough be of silver too .
But the sight of these thing only make Tiidu more covetous than before .
` What be the use of all this wealth that I have constantly before my eye , ' think he , ` if none of it be mine ?
I shall never grow rich by what I earn a a scullion , even though I be pay a much in a month a I should get elsewhere in a year . '
By this time he have be in his place for two year , and have put by quite a large sum of money .
His passion of save have increase to such a pitch that it be only by his master 's order that he ever buy any new clothes , ` For , ' say the merchant , ' I will not have dirty people in my house . '
So with a heavy heart Tiidu spend some of his next month 's wage on a cheap coat .
One day the merchant hold a great feast in honour of the christening of his young child , and he give each of his servant a handsome garment for the occasion .
The following Sunday , Tiidu , who like fine clothes when he do not have to pay for them , put on his new coat , and go for a walk to some beautiful pleasure garden , which be always full of people on a sunny day .
He sit down under a shady tree , and watch the passer-by , but after a little he begin to feel rather lonely , for he know nobody and nobody know him .
Suddenly his eye fell on the figure of an old man , which seem familiar to him , though he could not tell when or where he have see it .
He watch the figure for some time , till at length the old man leave the crowded path , and throw himself on the soft grass under a lime tree , which stand at some distance from where Tiidu be sit .
Then the young man walk slowly past , in order that he might look at him more closely , and a he do so the old man smile , and hold out his hand .
` What have you do with your pipe ? '
ask he ; and then in a moment Tiidu know him .
Taking his arm he draw him into a quiet place and tell him all that have happen since they have last met .
The old man shake his head a he listen , and when Tiidu have finish his tale , he say : ' A fool you be , and a fool you will always be !
Was there ever such a piece of folly a to exchange your pipe for a scullion 's ladle ?
You could have make a much by the pipe in a day a your wage would have come to in half a year .
Go home and fetch your pipe , and play them here , and you will soon see if I have speak the truth . '
Tiidu do not like this advice -- he be afraid that the people would laugh at him ; and , besides , it be long since he have touch his pipe -- but the old man persist , and at last Tiidu do a he be tell .
` Sit down on the bank by me , ' say the old man , when he come back , ` and begin to play , and in a little while the people will flock round you . '
Tiidu obey , at first without much heart ; but somehow the tone of the pipe be sweeter than he have remember , and a he play , the crowd cease to walk and chatter , and stand still and silent round him .
When he have play for some time he take off his hat and pass it round , and dollar , and small silver coin , and even gold piece , come tumble in .
Tiidu play a couple more tune by way of thanks , then turn to go home , hear on all side murmur of ` What a wonderful piper !
Come back , we pray you , next Sunday to give u another treat . '
` What do I tell you ? '
say the old man , a they pass through the garden gate .
` Was it not pleasanter to play for a couple of hour on the pipe than to be stir sauce all day long ?
For the second time I have show you the path to follow ; try to learn wisdom , and take the bull by the horn , l your luck should slip from you !
I can be your guide no longer , therefore listen to what I say , and obey me .
Go every Sunday afternoon to those garden ; and sit under the lime tree and play to the people , and bring a felt hat with a deep crown , and lay it on the ground at your foot , so that everyone can throw some money into it .
If you be invite to play at a feast , accept willingly , but beware of ask a fixed price ; say you will take whatever they may feel inclined to give .
You will get far more money in the end .
Perhaps , some day , our path may cross , and then I shall see how far you have follow my advice .
Till then , farewell ' ; and the old man go his way .
As before , his word come true , though Tiidu could not at once do his bidding , a he have first to fulfil his appointed time of service .
Meanwhile he order some fine clothes , in which he play every Sunday in the garden , and when he count his gain in the evening they be always more than on the Sunday before .
At length he be free to do a he like , and he have more invitation to play than he could manage to accept , and at night , when the citizen use to go and drink in the inn , the landlord always beg Tiidu to come and play to them .
Thus he grow so rich that very soon he have his silver pipe cover with gold , so that they glisten in the light of the sun or the fire .
In all Kungla there be no prouder man than Tiidu .
In a few year he have save such a large sum of money that he be consider a rich man even in Kungla , where everybody be rich .
And then he have leisure to remember that he have once have a home , and a family , and that he should like to see them both again , and show them how well he could play .
This time he would not need to hide in the ship 's hold , but could hire the best cabin if he wish to , or even have a vessel all to himself .
So he pack all his treasure in large chest , and send them on board the first ship that be sail to his native land , and follow them with a light heart .
The wind at start be fair , but it soon freshen , and in the night rise to a gale .
For two day they run before it , and hop that by keep well out to sea they might be able to weather the storm , when , suddenly , the ship struck on a rock , and begin to fill .
Orders be give to lower the boat , and Tiidu with three sailor get into one of them , but before they could push away from the ship a huge wave overturn it , and all four be fling into the water .
Luckily for Tiidu an oar be float near him , and with it help he be able to keep on the surface of the water ; and when the sun rise , and the mist clear away , he saw that he be not far from shore .
By hard swimming , for the sea still run high , he manage to reach it , and pull himself out of the water , more dead than alive .
Then he fling himself down on the ground and fell fast asleep .
When he awake he get up to explore the island , and see if there be any men upon it ; but though he find stream and fruit tree in abundance , there be no trace either of man or beast .
Then , tire with his wandering he sit down and begin to think .
For perhaps the first time in his life his thought do not instantly turn to money .
It be not on his lose treasure that his mind dwelt , but on his conduct to his parent : his laziness and disobedience a a boy ; his forgetfulness of them a a man .
` If wild animal be to come and tear me to piece , ' he say to himself bitterly , ` it would be only what I deserve !
My gain be all at the bottom of the sea -- well !
lightly win , lightly lose -- but it be odd that I feel I should not care for that if only my pipe be leave me . '
Then he rise and walk a little further , till he saw a tree with great red apple shin amidst the leaf , and he pull some down , and eat them greedily .
After that he stretch himself out on the soft moss and go to sleep .
In the morning he run to the near stream to wash himself , but to his horror , when he catch sight of his face , he saw his nose have grow the colour of an apple , and reach nearly to his waist .
He start back think he be dream , and put up his hand ; but , ala !
the dreadful thing be true .
` Oh , why do not some wild beast devour me ? '
he cry to himself ; ` never , never , can I go again amongst my fellow-men !
If only the sea have swallow me up , how much happy it have be for me ! '
And he hide his head in his hand and wept .
His grief be so violent , that it exhaust him , and grow hungry he look about for something to eat .
Just above him be a bough of ripe , brown nut , end he pick them and eat a handful .
To his surprise , a he be eat them , he felt his nose grow shorter and shorter , and after a while he venture to feel it with his hand , and even to look in the stream again !
Yes , there be no mistake , it be as short a before , or perhaps a little shorter .
In his joy at this discovery Tiidu do a very bold thing .
He take one of the apple out of his pocket , and cautiously bite a piece out of it .
In an instant his nose be as long a his chin , and in a deadly fear lest it should stretch far , he hastily swallow a nut , and await the result with terror .
Supposing that the shrinking of his nose have only be an accident before !
Supposing that that nut and no other be able to cause it shrinking !
In that case he have , by his own folly , in not let well alone , ruin his life completely .
But , no !
he have guess rightly , for in no more time than his nose have take to grow long do it take to return to it proper size .
` This may make my fortune , ' he say joyfully to himself ; and he gather some of the apple , which he put into one pocket , and a good supply of nut which he put into the other .
Next day he weave a basket out of some rush , so that if he ever leave the island he might be able to carry his treasure about .
That night he dream that his friend the old man appear to him and say : ` Because you do not mourn for your lost treasure , but only for your pipe , I will give you a new set to replace them . '
And , behold !
in the morning when he get up a set of pipe be lie in the basket .
With what joy do he seize them and begin one of his favourite tune ; and a he play hope sprang up in his heart , and he look out to sea , to try to detect the sign of a sail .
Yes !
there it be , make straight for the island ; and Tiidu , hold his pipe in his hand , dash down to the shore .
The sailor know the island to be uninhabited , and be much surprise to see a man stand on the beach , wave his arm in welcome to them .
A boat be put off , and two sailor row to the shore to discover how he come there , and if he wish to be take away .
Tiidu tell them the story of his shipwreck , and the captain promise that he should come on board , and sail with them back to Kungla ; and thankful indeed be Tiidu to accept the offer , and to show his gratitude by play on his pipe whenever he be ask to do so .
They have a quick voyage , and it be not long before Tiidu find himself again in the street of the capital of Kungla , play a he go along .
The people have hear no music like his since he go away , and they crowd round him , and in their joy give him whatever money they have in their pocket .
His first care be to buy himself some new clothes , which he sadly need , take care , however , that they should be make after a foreign fashion .
When they be ready , he set out one day with a small basket of his famous apple , and go up to the palace .
He do not have to wait long before one of the royal servant pass by and buy all the apple , beg a he do so that the merchant should return and bring some more .
This Tiidu promise , and hasten away a if he have a mad bull behind him , so afraid be he that the man should begin to eat an apple at once .
It be needless to say that for some day he take no more apple back to the palace , but keep well away on the other side of the town , wear other clothes , and disguise by a long black beard , so that even his own mother would not have know him .
The morning after his visit to the castle the whole city be in an uproar about the dreadful misfortune that have happen to the Royal Family , for not only the king but his wife and child , have eat of the stranger 's apple , and all , so say the rumour , be very ill .
The most famous doctor and the great magician be hastily summon to the palace , but they shake their head and come away again ; never have they meet with such a disease in all the course of their experience .
By-and-bye a story go round the town , start no one know how , that the malady be in some way connect with the nose ; and men rub their own anxiously , to be sure that nothing catching be in the air .
Matters have be in this state for more than a week when it reach the ear of the king that a man be live in an inn on the other side of the town who declare himself able to cure all manner of disease .
Instantly the royal carriage be command to drive with all speed and bring back this magician , offer him rich untold if he could restore their nose to their former length .
Tiidu have expect this summons , and have sit up all night change his appearance , and so well have he succeed that not a trace remain either of the piper or of the apple seller .
He step into the carriage , and be drive post haste to the king , who be feverishly count every moment , for both his nose and the queen 's be by this time more than a yard long , and they do not know where they would stop .
Now Tiidu think it would not look well to cure the royal family by give them the raw nut ; he felt that it might arouse suspicion .
So he have carefully pound them into a powder , and divide the powder up into small dos , which be to be put on the tongue and swallow at once .
He give one of these to the king and another to the queen , and tell them that before take them they be to get into bed in a dark room and not to move for some hour , after which they might be sure that they would come out cure .
The king 's joy be so great at this news that he would gladly have give Tiidu half of his kingdom ; but the piper be no longer so greedy of money a he once be , before he have be shipwreck on the island .
If he could get enough to buy a small estate and live comfortably on it for the rest of his life , that be all he now care for .
However , the king order his treasure to pay him three time as much a he ask , and with this Tiidu go down to the harbour and engage a small ship to carry him back to his native country .
The wind be fair , and in ten day the coast , which he have almost forget , stand clear before him .
In a few hour he be stand in his old home , where his father , three sister , and two brother give him a hearty welcome .
His mother and his other brother have die some year before .
When the meeting be over , he begin to make inquiry about a small estate that be for sale near the town , and after he have buy it the next thing be to find a wife to share it with him .
This do not take long either ; and people who be at the wedding feast declare that the best part of the whole day be the hour when Tiidu play to them on the pipe before they bid each other farewell and return to their home .
-LSB- From Esthnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Paperarelloo Once upon a time there live a king and a queen who have one son .
The king love the boy very much , but the queen , who be a wicked woman , hat the sight of him ; and this be the more unlucky for , when he be twelve year old , his father die , and he be leave alone in the world .
Now the queen be very angry because the people , who know how bad she be , seat her son on the throne instead of herself , and she never rest till she have form a plan to get him out of the way .
Fortunately , however , the young king be wise and prudent , and know her too well to trust her .
One day , when his mourning be over , he give order that everything should be make ready for a grand hunt .
The queen pretend to be greatly delighted that he be go to amuse himself once more , and declare that she would accompany him .
` No , mother , I can not let you come , ' he answer ; ` the ground be rough , and you be not strong . '
But he might as well have speak to the wind : when the horn be sound at daybreak the queen be there with the rest .
All that day they ride , for game be plentiful , but towards even the mother and son find themselves alone in a part of the country that be strange to them .
They wander on for some time , without know where they be go , till they meet with a man whom they beg to give them shelter .
` Come with me , ' say the man gladly , for he be an ogre , and feed on human flesh ; and the king and his mother go with him , and he lead them to his house .
When they get there they find to what a dreadful place they have come , and , fall on their knee , they offer him great sum of money , if he would only spare their life .
The ogre 's heart be move at the sight of the queen 's beauty , and he promise that he would do her no harm ; but he stab the boy at once , and bind his body on a horse , turn him loose in the forest .
The ogre have happen to choose a horse which he have buy only the day before , and he do not know it be a magician , or he would not have be so foolish a to fix upon it on this occasion .
The horse no sooner have be drive off with the prince 's body on it back than it gallop straight to the home of the fairy , and knock at the door with it hoof .
The fairy hear the knock , but be afraid to open till they have peep from an upper window to see that it be no giant or ogre who could do them harm .
` Oh , look , sister ! '
cry the first to reach the window , ` it be a horse that have knock , and on it back there be bound a dead boy , the most beautiful boy in all the world ! '
Then the fairy run to open the door , and let in the horse and unbound the rope which fasten the young king on it back .
And they gather round to admire his beauty , and whisper one to the other : ` We will make him alive again , and will keep him for our brother . '
And so they do , and for many year they all live together a brother and sister .
By-and-by the boy grow into a man , a boy will , and then the old of the fairy say to her sister : ` Now I will marry him , and he shall be really your brother . '
So the young king marry the fairy , and they live happily together in the castle ; but though he love his wife he still long to see the world .
At length this longing grow so strong on him that he could bear it no more ; and , call the fairy together , he say to them : ` Dear wife and sister , I must leave you for a time , and go out and see the world .
But I shall think of you often , and one day I shall come back to you . '
The fairy weep and beg him to stay , but he would not listen , and at last the eldest , who be his wife , say to him : ` If you really will abandon u , take this lock of my hair with you ; you will find it useful in time of need . '
So she cut off a long curl , and hand it to him .
The prince mount his horse , and ride on all day without stop once .
Towards even he find himself in a desert , and , look where he would , there be no such thing a a house or a man to be see .
` What be I to do now ? '
he think .
` If I go to sleep here wild beast will come and eat me !
Yet both I and my horse be wear out , and can go no far . '
Then suddenly he remember the fairy 's gift , and take out the curl he say to it : ' I want a castle here , and servant , and dinner , and everything to make me comfortable tonight ; and besides that , I must have a stable and fodder for my horse . '
And in a moment the castle be before him just a he have wish .
In this way he travel through many country , till at last he come to a land that be rule over by a great king .
Leaving his horse outside the wall , he clothe himself in the dress of a poor man , and go up to the palace .
The queen , who be look out of the window , saw him approach , and fill with pity send a servant to ask who he be and what he want . '
I be a stranger here , ' answer the young king , ` and very poor .
I have come to beg for some work . '
` We have everybody we want , ' say the queen , when the servant tell her the young man 's reply .
` We have a gate-keeper , and a hall porter , and servant of all sort in the palace ; the only person we have not get be a goose-boy .
Tell him that he can be our goose-boy if he like . '
The youth answer that he be quite content to be goose-boy ; and that be how he get his nickname of Paperarello .
And in order that no one should guess that he be any good than a goose-boy should be , he rub his face and his rag over with mud , and make himself altogether such a disgust object that every one cross over to the other side of the road when he be see come .
` Do go and wash yourself , Paperarello ! '
say the queen sometimes , for he do his work so well that she take an interest in him .
` Oh , I should not feel comfortable if I be clean , your Majesty , ' answer he , and go whistle after his goose .
It happen one day that , owe to some accident to the great flour mill which supply the city , there be no bread to be have , and the king 's army have to do without .
When the king heard of it , he send for the cook , and tell him that by the next morning he must have all the bread that the oven , heat seven time over , could bake .
` But , your Majesty , it be not possible , ' cry the poor man in despair .
` The mill have only just begin work , and the flour will not be ground till even , and how can I heat the oven seven time in one night ? '
` That be your affair , ' answer the King , who , when he take anything into his head , would listen to nothing .
` If you succeed in bake the bread you shall have my daughter to wife , but if you fail your head will pay for it . '
Now Paperarello , who be pass through the hall where the king be give his order , heard these word , and say : ` Your Majesty , have no fear ; I will bake your bread . '
` Very well , ' answer the king ; ` but if you fail , you will pay for it with your head ! '
and sign that both should leave his presence .
The cook be still tremble with the thought of what he have escape , but to his surprise Paperarello do not seem disturb at all , and when night come he go to sleep a usual .
` Paperarello , ' cry the other servant , when they saw him quietly take off his clothes , ` you can not go to bed ; you will need every moment of the night for your work .
Remember , the king be not to be play with ! ' '
I really must have some sleep first , ' reply Paperarello , stretch himself and yawn ; and he fling himself on his bed , and be fast asleep in a moment .
In an hour 's time , the servant come and shake him by the shoulder .
` Paperarello , be you mad ? '
say they .
` Get up , or you will lose your head . '
` Oh , do let me sleep a little more , answer he .
And this be all he would say , though the servant return to wake him many time in the night .
At last the dawn break , and the servant rush to his room , cry : ` Paperarello !
Paperarello !
get up , the king be come .
You have bake no bread , and of a surety he will have your head . '
` Oh , do n't scream so , ' reply Paperarello , jump out of bed a he speak ; and take the lock of hair in his hand , he go into the kitchen .
And , behold !
there stand the bread pile high -- four , five , six oven full , and the seventh still wait to be take out of the oven .
The servant stand and star in surprise , and the king say : ` Well do , Paperarello , you have win my daughter . '
And he think to himself : ` This fellow must really be a magician . '
But when the princess hear what be in store for her she weep bitterly , and declare that never , never would she marry that dirty Paperarello !
However , the king pay no heed to her tear and prayer , and before many day be over the wedding be celebrate with great splendour , though the bridegroom have not take the trouble to wash himself , and be as dirty a before .
When night come he go as usual to sleep among his goose , and the princess go to the king and say : ` Father , I entreat you to have that horrible Paperarello put to death . '
` No , no ! '
reply her father , ` he be a great magician , and before I put him to death , I must first find out the secret of his power , and then -- we shall see . '
Soon after this a war break out , and everybody about the palace be very busy polish up armour and sharpen sword , for the king and his son be to ride at the head of the army .
Then Paperarello leave his geese , and come and tell the king that he wish to go to fight also .
The king give him leave , and tell him that he might go to the stable and take any horse he like from the stable .
So Paperarello examine the horse carefully , but instead of pick out one of the splendid well-groomed creature , whose skin shone like satin , he choose a poor lame thing , put a saddle on it , and rode after the other man-at-arms who be attend the king .
In a short time he stop , and say to them : ` My horse can go no far ; you must go on to the war without me , and I will stay here , and make some little clay soldier , and will play at a battle . '
The men laugh at him for be so childish , and rode on after their master .
Scarcely be they out of sight than Paperarello take out his curl , and wish himself the best armour , the sharp sword , and the swift horse in the world , and the next minute be rid as fast a he could to the field of battle .
The fight have already begin , and the enemy be get the best of it , when Paperarello ride up , and in a moment the fortune of the day have change .
Right and leave this strange knight lay about him , and his sword pierce the stout breast-plate , and the strong shield .
He be indeed ' a host in himself , ' and his foe flee before him think he be only the first of a troop of such warrior , whom no one could withstand .
When the battle be over , the king sent for him to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what reward he should give him .
` Nothing but your little finger , your Majesty , ' be his answer ; and the king cut off his little finger and give it to Paperarello , who bow and hide it in his surcoat .
Then he leave the field , and when the soldier ride back they find him still sit in the road make whole row of little clay doll .
The next day the king go out to fight another battle , and again Paperarello appear , mount on his lame horse .
As on the day before , he halt on the road , and sit down to make his clay soldier ; then a second time he wish himself armour , sword , and a horse , all sharp and good than those he have previously have , and gallop after the rest .
He be only just in time : the enemy have almost beat the king 's army back , and men whisper to each other that if the strange knight do not soon come to their aid , they would be all dead men .
Suddenly someone cry : ` Hold on a little long , I see him in the distance ; and his armour shine brighter , and his horse run swifter , than yesterday . '
Then they take fresh heart and fought desperately on till the knight come up , and throw himself into the thick of the battle .
As before , the enemy give way before him , and in a few minute the victory remain with the king .
The first thing that the victor do be to send for the knight to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what gift he could bestow on him in token of gratitude .
` Your Majesty 's ear , ' answer the knight ; and a the king could not go back from his word , he cut it off and give it to him .
Paperarello bow , fasten the ear inside his surcoat and ride away .
In the evening , when they all return from the battle , there he be , sit in the road , make clay doll .
On the third day the same thing happen , and this time he ask for the king 's nose a the reward of his aid .
Now , to lose one 's nose , be bad even than lose one 's ear or one 's finger , and the king hesitate a to whether he should comply .
However , he have always pride himself on be an honourable man , so he cut off his nose , and hand it to Paperarello .
Paperarello bow , put the nose in his surcoat , and ride away .
In the evening , when the king return from the battle , he find Paperarello sit in the road make clay doll .
And Paperarello get up and say to him : ` Do you know who I be ?
I be your dirty goose-boy , yet you have give me your finger , and your ear , and your nose . '
That night , when the king sit at dinner , Paperarello come in , and lay down the ear , and the nose , and the finger on the table , turn and say to the noble and courtier who be wait on the king : ' I be the invincible knight , who ride three time to your help , and I also be a king 's son , and no goose-boy a you all think . '
And he go away and wash himself , and dress himself in fine clothes and enter the hall again , look so handsome that the proud princess fell in love with him on the spot .
But Paperarello take no notice of her , and say to the king : ` It be kind of you to offer me your daughter in marriage , and for that I thank you ; but I have a wife at home whom I love well , and it be to her that I be go .
But a a token of farewell , I wish that your ear , and nose , and finger may be restore to their proper place . '
So say , he bid them all goodbye , and go back to his home and his fairy bride , with whom he live happily till the end of his life .
-LSB- From Sicilianisohen Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Gifts Of The Magician Once upon a time there be an old man who live in a little hut in the middle of a forest .
His wife be dead , and he have only one son , whom he love dearly .
Near their hut be a group of birch tree , in which some black-game have make their nest , and the youth have often beg his father 's permission to shoot the bird , but the old man always strictly forbid him to do anything of the kind .
One day , however , when the father have go to a little distance to collect some stick for the fire , the boy fetch his bow , and shot at a bird that be just fly towards it nest .
But he have not take proper aim , and the bird be only wounded , and flutter along the ground .
The boy run to catch it , but though he run very fast , and the bird seem to flutter along very slowly , he never could quite come up with it ; it be always just a little in advance .
But so absorbed be he in the chase that he do not notice for some time that he be now deep in the forest , in a place where he have never be before .
Then he felt it would be foolish to go any far , and he turn to find his way home .
He think it would be easy enough to follow the path along which he have come , but somehow it be always branch off in unexpected direction .
He look about for a house where he might stop and ask his way , but there be not a sign of one anywhere , and he be afraid to stand still , for it be cold , and there be many story of wolf be see in that part of the forest .
Night fell , and he be begin to start at every sound , when suddenly a magician come run towards him , with a pack of wolf snap at his heel .
Then all the boy 's courage return to him .
He take his bow , and aim an arrow at the large wolf , shoot him through the heart , and a few more arrow soon put the rest to flight .
The magician be full of gratitude to his deliverer , and promise him a reward for his help if the youth would go back with him to his house .
` Indeed there be nothing that would be more welcome to me than a night 's lodging , ' answer the boy ; ' I have be wander all day in the forest , and do not know how to get home again .
` Come with me , you must be hungry as well a tire , ' say the magician , and lead the way to his house , where the guest flung himself on a bed , and go fast asleep .
But his host return to the forest to get some food , for the larder be empty .
While he be absent the housekeeper go to the boy 's room and try to wake him .
She stamp on the floor , and shake him and call to him , tell him that he be in great danger , and must take flight at once .
But nothing would rouse him , and if he do ever open his eye he shut them again directly .
Soon after , the magician come back from the forest , and tell the housekeeper to bring them something to eat .
The meal be quickly ready , and the magician call to the boy to come down and eat it , but he could not be waken , and they have to sit down to supper without him .
By-and-by the magician go out into the wood again for some more hunting , and on his return he try afresh to waken the youth .
But find it quite impossible , he go back for the third time to the forest .
While he be absent the boy wake up and dress himself .
Then he come downstairs and begin to talk to the housekeeper .
The girl have hear how he have save her master 's life , so she say nothing more about his run away , but instead tell him that if the magician offer him the choice of a reward , he be to ask for the horse which stand in the third stall of the stable .
By-and-by the old man come back and they all sit down to dinner .
When they have finish the magician say : ` Now , my son , tell me what you will have a the reward of your courage ? '
` Give me the horse that stand in the third stall of your stable , ' answer the youth .
` For I have a long way to go before I get home , and my foot will not carry me so far . '
` Ah !
my son , ' reply the magician , ` it be the best horse in my stable that you want !
Will not anything else please you a well ? '
But the youth declare that it be the horse , and the horse only , that he desire , and in the end the old man give way .
And besides the horse , the magician give him a zither , a fiddle , and a flute , say : ` If you be in danger , touch the zither ; and if no one come to your aid , then play on the fiddle ; but if that bring no help , blow on the flute . '
The youth thank the magician , and fasten his treasure about him mount the horse and ride off .
He have already go some mile when , to his great surprise , the horse speak , and say : ` It be no use your return home just now , your father will only beat you .
Let u visit a few town first , and something lucky will be sure to happen to u . '
This advice please the boy , for he felt himself almost a man by this time , and think it be high time he saw the world .
When they enter the capital of the country everyone stop to admire the beauty of the horse .
Even the king heard of it , and come to see the splendid creature with his own eye .
Indeed , he want directly to buy it , and tell the youth he would give any price he like .
The young man hesitate for a moment , but before he could speak , the horse contrive to whisper to him : ` Do not sell me , but ask the king to take me to his stable , and fee me there ; then his other horse will become just as beautiful a I. ' The king be delighted when he be tell what the horse have say , and take the animal at once to the stable , and place it in his own particular stall .
Sure enough , the horse have scarcely eat a mouthful of corn out of the manger , when the rest of the horse seem to have undergone a transformation .
Some of them be old favourite which the king have ride in many war , and they bore the sign of age and of service .
But now they arch their head , and paw the ground with their slender leg a they have be wont to do in day long go by .
The king 's heart beat with delight , but the old groom who have have the care of them stand crossly by , and eye the owner of this wonderful creature with hate and envy .
Not a day pass without his bring some story against the youth to his master , but the king understood all about the matter and pay no attention .
At last the groom declare that the young man have boast that he could find the king 's war horse which have stray into the forest several year ago , and have not be hear of since .
Now the king have never cease to mourn for his horse , so this time he listen to the tale which the groom have invent , and send for the youth .
` Find me my horse in three day , ' say he , ` or it will be the bad for you . '
The youth be thunderstruck at this command , but he only bow , and go off at once to the stable .
` Do not worry yourself , ' answer his own horse .
` Ask the king to give you a hundred ox , and to let them be kill and cut into small piece .
Then we will start on our journey , and ride till we reach a certain river .
There a horse will come up to you , but take no notice of him .
Soon another will appear , and this also you must leave alone , but when the third horse show itself , throw my bridle over it . '
Everything happen just a the horse have say , and the third horse be safely bridle .
Then the other horse speak again : ` The magician 's raven will try to eat u a we ride away , but throw it some of the ox 's flesh , and then I will gallop like the wind , and carry you safe out of the dragon 's clutch . '
So the young man do a he be tell , and bring the horse back to the king .
The old stableman be very jealous , when he hear of it , and wonder what he could do to injure the youth in the eye of his royal master .
At last he hit upon a plan , and tell the king that the young man have boast that he could bring home the king 's wife , who have vanish many month before , without leave a trace behind her .
Then the king bid the young man come into his presence , and desire him to fetch the queen home again , a he have boast he could do .
And if he fail , his head would pay the penalty .
The poor youth 's heart stand still a he listen .
Find the queen ?
But how be he to do that , when nobody in the palace have be able to do so !
Slowly he walk to the stable , and lay his head on his horse 's shoulder , he say : ` The king have order me to bring his wife home again , and how can I do that when she disappear so long ago , and no one can tell me anything about her ? '
` Cheer up ! '
answer the horse , ` we will manage to find her .
You have only get to ride me back to the same river that we go to yesterday , and I will plunge into it and take my proper shape again .
For I be the king 's wife , who be turn into a horse by the magician from whom you save me . '
Joyfully the young man sprang into the saddle and ride away to the bank of the river .
Then he throw himself off , and wait while the horse plunge in .
The moment it dip it head into the water it black skin vanish , and the most beautiful woman in the world be float on the water .
She come smile towards the youth , and hold out her hand , and he take it and lead her back to the palace .
Great be the king 's surprise and happiness when he behold his lost wife stand before him , and in gratitude to her rescuer he load him with gift .
You would have think that after this the poor youth would have be leave in peace ; but no , his enemy the stableman hat him as much a ever , and lay a new plot for his undoing .
This time he present himself before the king and tell him that the youth be so puffed up with what he have do that he have declare he would seize the king 's throne for himself .
At this news the king wax so furious that he order a gallows to be erect at once , and the young man to be hang without a trial .
He be not even allow to speak in his own defence , but on the very step of the gallows he send a message to the king and beg , a a last favour , that he might play a tune on his zither .
Leave be give him , and take the instrument from under his cloak he touch the string .
Scarcely have the first note sound than the hangman and his helper begin to dance , and the louder grow the music the high they caper , till at last they cry for mercy .
But the youth pay no heed , and the tune ring out more merrily than before , and by the time the sun set they both sink on the ground exhaust , and declare that the hanging must be put off till to-morrow .
The story of the zither soon spread through the town , and on the following morning the king and his whole court and a large crowd of people be gather at the foot of the gallows to see the youth hang .
Once more he ask a favour -- permission to play on his fiddle , and this the king be graciously pleased to grant .
But with the first note , the leg of every man in the crowd be lift high , and they dance to the sound of the music the whole day till darkness fell , and there be no light to hang the musician by .
The third day come , and the youth ask leave to play on his flute .
` No , no , ' say the king , ` you make me dance all day yesterday , and if I do it again it will certainly be my death .
You shall play no more tune .
Quick !
the rope round his neck . '
At these word the young man look so sorrowful that the courtier say to the king : ` He be very young to die .
Let him play a tune if it will make him happy . '
So , very unwillingly , the king give him leave ; but first he have himself bind to a big fir tree , for fear that he should be make to dance .
When he be make fast , the young man begin to blow softly on his flute , and bound though he be , the king 's body move to the sound , up and down the fir tree till his clothes be in tatter , and the skin nearly rub off his back .
But the youth have no pity , and go on blowing , till suddenly the old magician appear and ask : ` What danger be you in , my son , that you have send for me ? '
` They want to hang me , ' answer the young man ; ` the gallows be all ready and the hangman be only wait for me to stop playing . '
` Oh , I will put that right , ' say the magician ; and take the gallows , he tear it up and fling it into the air , and no one know where it come down .
` Who have order you to be hang ? '
ask he .
The young man point to the king , who be still bind to the fir ; and without waste word the magician take hold of the tree also , and with a mighty heave both fir and man go spin through the air , and vanish in the cloud after the gallows .
Then the youth be declare to be free , and the people elect him for their king ; and the stable helper drown himself from envy , for , after all , if it have not be for him the young man would have remain poor all the day of his life .
-LSB- From Finnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Strong Prince Once upon a time there live a king who be so fond of wine that he could not go to sleep unless he know he have a great flaskful tie to his bed-post .
All day long he drink till he be too stupid to attend to his business , and everything in the kingdom go to rack and ruin .
But one day an accident happen to him , and he be strike on the head by a fall bough , so that he fell from his horse and lay dead upon the ground .
His wife and son mourn his loss bitterly , for , in spite of his fault , he have always be kind to them .
So they abandon the crown and forsake their country , not know or care where they go .
At length they wander into a forest , and be very tire , sit down under a tree to eat some bread that they have bring with them .
When they have finish the queen say : ` My son , I be thirsty ; fetch me some water . '
The prince get up at once and go to a brook which he hear gurgle near at hand .
He stoop and fill his hat with the water , which he bring to his mother ; then he turn and follow the stream up to it source in a rock , where it bubble out clear and fresh and cold .
He kneel down to take a draught from the deep pool below the rock , when he saw the reflection of a sword hang from the branch of a tree over his head .
The young man draw back with a start ; but in a moment he climb the tree , cut the rope which hold the sword , and carry the weapon to his mother .
The queen be greatly surprise at the sight of anything so splendid in such a lonely place , and take it in her hand to examine it closely .
It be of curious workmanship , wrought with gold , and on it handle be write : ` The man who can buckle on this sword will become strong than other men . '
The queen 's heart swell with joy a she read these word , and she bid her son lose no time in test their truth .
So he fasten it round his waist , and instantly a glow of strength seem to run through his vein .
He take hold of a thick oak tree and root it up as easily a if it have be a weed .
This discovery put new life into the queen and her son , and they continue their walk through the forest .
But night be draw on , and the darkness grow so thick that it seem a if it could be cut with a knife .
They do not want to sleep in the wood , for they be afraid of wolf and other wild beast , so they grope their way along , hand in hand , till the prince trip over something which lay across the path .
He could not see what it be , but stoop down and try to lift it .
The thing be very heavy , and he think his back would break under the strain .
At last with a great heave he move it out of the road , and a it fell he know it be a huge rock .
Behind the rock be a cave which it be quite clear be the home of some robber , though not one of the band be there .
Hastily put out the fire which burn brightly at the back , and bid his mother come in and keep very still , the prince begin to pace up and down , listen for the return of the robber .
But he be very sleepy , and in spite of all his effort he felt he could not keep awake much longer , when he hear the sound of the robber return , shout and sing a they march along .
Soon the singing cease , and strain his ear he hear them discuss anxiously what have become of their cave , and why they could not see the fire a usual .
` This must be the place , ' say a voice , which the prince take to be that of the captain .
` Yes , I feel the ditch before the entrance .
Someone forget to pile up the fire before we leave and it have burn itself out !
But it be all right .
Let every man jump across , and a he do so cry out `` Hop !
I be here . ''
I will go last .
Now begin . '
The man who stand near jumped across , but he have no time to give the call which the captain have order , for with one swift , silent stroke of the prince 's sword , his head roll into a corner .
Then the young man cry instead , ` Hop !
I be here . '
The second man , hear the signal , leap the ditch in confidence , and be meet by the same fate , and in a few minute eleven of the robber lay dead , and there remain only the captain .
Now the captain have wind round his neck the shawl of his lose wife , and the stroke of the prince 's sword fell harmless .
Being very cunning , however , he make no resistance , and roll over a if he be as dead a the other men .
Still , the prince be no fool , and wonder if indeed he be as dead a he seem to be ; but the captain lay so stiff and stark , that at last he be take in .
The prince next drag the headless body into a chamber in the cave , and lock the door .
Then he and his mother ransack the place for some food , and when they have eat it they lay down and sleep in peace .
With the dawn they be both awake again , and find that , instead of the cave which they have come to the night before , they now be in a splendid castle , full of beautiful room .
The prince go round all these and carefully lock them up , bid his mother take care of the key while he be hunt .
Unfortunately , the queen , like all woman , could not bear to think that there be anything which she do not know .
So the moment that her son have turn his back , she open the door of all the room , and peep in , till she come to the one where the robber lay .
But if the sight of the blood on the ground turn her faint , the sight of the robber captain walk up and down be a great shock still .
She quickly turn the key in the lock , and run back to the chamber she have sleep in .
Soon after her son come in , bring with him a large bear , which he have kill for supper .
As there be enough food to last them for many day , the prince do not hunt the next morning , but , instead , begin to explore the castle .
He find that a secret way lead from it into the forest ; and follow the path , he reach another castle large and more splendid than the one belonging to the robber .
He knock at the door with his fist , and say that he want to enter ; but the giant , to whom the castle belong , only answer : ' I know who you be .
I have nothing to do with robber . ' '
I be no robber , ' answer the prince . '
I be the son of a king , and I have kill all the band .
If you do not open to me at once I will break in the door , and your head shall go to join the others . '
He wait a little , but the door remain shut as tightly a before .
Then he just put his shoulder to it , and immediately the wood begin to crack .
When the giant find that it be no use keep it shut , he open it , say : ' I see you be a brave youth .
Let there be peace between u . '
And the prince be glad to make peace , for he have catch a glimpse of the giant 's beautiful daughter , and from that day he often seek the giant 's house .
Now the queen lead a dull life all alone in the castle , and to amuse herself she pay visit to the robber captain , who flatter her till at last she agree to marry him .
But a she be much afraid of her son , she tell the robber that the next time the prince go to bathe in the river , he be to steal the sword from it place above the bed , for without it the young man would have no power to punish him for his boldness .
The robber captain think this good counsel , and the next morning , when the young man go to bathe , he unhook the sword from it nail and buckle it round his waist .
On his return to the castle , the prince find the robber wait for him on the step , wave the sword above his head , and know that some horrible fate be in store , fell on his knee and beg for mercy .
But he might as well have try to squeeze blood out of a stone .
The robber , indeed , grant him his life , but take out both his eye , which he thrust into the prince 's hand , say brutally : ` Here , you have good keep them !
You may find them useful ! '
Weeping , the blind youth felt his way to the giant 's house , and tell him all the story .
The giant be full of pity for the poor young man , but inquire anxiously what he have do with the eye .
The prince draw them out of his pocket , and silently hand them to the giant , who wash them well , and then put them back in the prince 's head .
For three day he lay in utter darkness ; then the light begin to come back , till soon he saw as well a ever .
But though he could not rejoice enough over the recovery of his eye , he bewail bitterly the loss of his sword , and that it should have fall to the lot of his bitter enemy .
` Never mind , my friend , ' say the giant , ' I will get it back for you . '
And he send for the monkey who be his head servant .
` Tell the fox and the squirrel that they be to go with you , and fetch me back the prince 's sword , ' order he .
The three servant set out at once , one seat on the back of the others , the ape , who dislike walking , be generally on top .
Directly they come to the window of the robber captain 's room , the monkey sprang from the back of the fox and the squirrel , and climb in .
The room be empty , and the sword hang from a nail .
He take it down , and buckle it round his waist , a he have see the prince do , swing himself down again , and mount on the back of his two companion , hasten to his master .
The giant bid him give the sword to the prince , who gird himself with it , and return with all speed to the castle .
` Come out , you rascal !
come out , you villain ! '
cry he , ` and answer to me for the wrong you have do .
I will show you who be the master in this house ! '
The noise he make bring the robber into the room .
He glance up to where the sword usually hung , but it be go ; and instinctively he look at the prince 's hand , where he saw it gleam brightly .
In his turn he fell on his knee to beg for mercy , but it be too late .
As he have do to the prince , so the prince do to him , and , blind , he be thrust forth , and fell down a deep hole , where he be to this day .
His mother the prince send back to her father , and never would see her again .
After this he return to the giant , and say to him : ` My friend , add one more kindness to those you have already heap on me .
Give me your daughter a my wife . '
So they be marry , and the wedding feast be so splendid that there be not a kingdom in the world that do not hear of it .
And the prince never go back to his father 's throne , but live peacefully with his wife in the forest , where , if they be not dead , they be live still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Volksmarchen . -RSB-
The Treasure Seeker Once , long ago , in a little town that lay in the midst of high hill and wild forest , a party of shepherd sit one night in the kitchen of the inn talk over old time , and telling of the strange thing that have befall them in their youth .
Presently up speak the silver-haired Father Martin .
` Comrades , ' say he , ` you have have wonderful adventure ; but I will tell you something still more astonishing that happen to myself .
When I be a young lad I have no home and no one to care for me , and I wander from village to village all over the country with my knapsack on my back ; but as soon a I be old enough I take service with a shepherd in the mountain , and help him for three year .
One autumn evening a we drive the flock homeward ten sheep be miss , and the master bid me go and seek them in the forest .
I take my dog with me , but he could find no trace of them , though we search among the bush till night fell ; and then , a I do not know the country and could not find my way home in the dark , I decide to sleep under a tree .
At midnight my dog become uneasy , and begin to whine and creep close to me with his tail between his leg ; by this I know that something be wrong , and , look about , I saw in the bright moonlight a figure stand beside me .
It seem to be a man with shaggy hair , and a long beard which hang down to his knee .
He have a garland upon his head , and a girdle of oak-leaves about his body , and carry an uprooted fir-tree in his right hand .
I shake like an aspen leaf at the sight , and my spirit quake for fear .
The strange be beckon with his hand that I should follow him ; but a I do not stir from the spot he speak in a hoarse , grate voice : `` Take courage , fainthearted shepherd .
I be the Treasure Seeker of the mountain .
If you will come with me you shall dig up much gold . ''
` Though I be still deadly cold with terror I pluck up my courage and say : `` Get away from me , evil spirit ; I do not desire your treasure . ''
` At this the spectre grin in my face and cry mockingly : ' `` Simpleton !
Do you scorn your good fortune ?
Well , then , remain a ragamuffin all your day . ''
` He turn as if to go away from me , then come back again and say : `` Bethink yourself , bethink yourself , rogue .
I will fill your knapsack -- I will fill your pouch . '' '
`` Away from me , monster , '' I answer , `` I will have nothing to do with you . ''
` When the apparition saw that I give no heed to him he cease to urge me , say only : `` Some day you will rue this , '' and look at me sadly .
Then he cry : `` Listen to what I say , and lay it well to heart , it may be of use to you when you come to your sens .
A vast treasure of gold and precious stone lie in safety deep under the earth .
At twilight and at high noon it be hidden , but at midnight it may be dig up .
For seven hundred year have I watch over it , but now my time have come ; it be common property , let him find it who can .
So I think to give it into your hand , have a kindness for you because you fee your flock upon my mountain . ''
` Thereupon the spectre tell me exactly where the treasure lay , and how to find it .
It might be only yesterday so well do I remember every word he speak . '
`` Go towards the little mountain , '' say he , `` and ask there for the Black King 's Valley , and when you come to a tiny brook follow the stream till you reach the stone bridge beside the saw-mill .
Do not cross the bridge , but keep to your right along the bank till a high rock stand before you .
A bow-shot from that you will discover a little hollow like a grave .
When you find this hollow dig it out ; but it will be hard work , for the earth have be press down into it with care .
Still , work away till you find solid rock on all side of you , and soon you will come to a square slab of stone ; force it out of the wall , and you will stand at the entrance of the treasure house .
Into this opening you must crawl , hold a lamp in your mouth .
Keep your hand free l you knock your nose against a stone , for the way be steep and the stone sharp .
If it bruise your knee never mind ; you be on the road to fortune .
Do not rest till you reach a wide stairway , down which you will go till you come out into a spacious hall , in which there be three door ; two of them stand open , the third be fasten with lock and bolt of iron .
Do not go through the door to the right lest you disturb the bone of the lord of the treasure .
Neither must you go through the door to the left , it lead to the snake 's chamber , where adder and serpent lodge ; but open the fast-closed door by mean of the well-known spring-root , which you must on no account forget to take with you , or all your trouble will be for naught , for no crowbar or mortal tool will help you .
If you want to procure the root ask a wood-seller ; it be a common thing for hunter to need , and it be not hard to find .
If the door burst open suddenly with great cracking and groanings do not be afraid , the noise be cause by the power of the magic root , and you will not be hurt .
Now trim your lamp that it may not fail you , for you will be nearly blind by the flash and glitter of the gold and precious stone on the wall and pillar of the vault ; but beware how you stretch out a hand towards the jewel !
In the midst of the cavern stand a copper chest , in that you will find gold and silver , enough and to spare , and you may help yourself to your heart 's content .
If you take as much a you can carry you will have sufficient to last your lifetime , and you may return three time ; but woe betide you if you venture to come a fourth time .
You would have your trouble for your pain , and would be punish for your greediness by fall down the stone step and break your leg .
Do not neglect each time to heap back the loose earth which conceal the entrance of the king 's treasure chamber . ''
` As the apparition leave off speak my dog prick up his ear and begin to bark .
I hear the crack of a carter 's whip and the noise of wheel in the distance , and when I look again the spectre have disappear . '
So end the shepherd 's tale ; and the landlord who be listen with the rest , say shrewdly : ` Tell u now , Father Martin , do you go to the mountain and find what the spirit promise you ; or be it a fable ? '
` Nay , nay , ' answer the graybeard . '
I can not tell if the spectre lie , for never a step do I go towards find the hollow , for two reason : -- one be that my neck be too precious for me to risk it in such a snare a that ; the other , that no one could ever tell me where the spring-root be to be find . '
Then Blaize , another age shepherd , lift up his voice .
`` Tis a pity , Father Martin , that your secret have grow old with you .
If you have tell it forty year ago truly you would not long have be lack the spring-root .
Even though you will never climb the mountain now , I will tell you , for a joke , how it be to be find .
The easy way to get it be by the help of a black woodpecker .
Look , in the spring , where she build her nest in a hole in a tree , and when the time come for her brood to fly off block up the entrance to the nest with a hard sod , and lurk in ambush behind the tree till the bird return to fee her nestling .
When she perceive that she can not get into her nest she will fly round the tree utter cry of distress , and then dart off towards the sun-setting .
When you see her do this , take a scarlet cloak , or if that be lack to you , buy a few yard of scarlet cloth , and hurry back to the tree before the woodpecker return with the spring-root in her beak .
So soon a she touch with the root the sod that block the nest , it will fly violently out of the hole .
Then spread the red cloth quickly under the tree , so that the woodpecker may think it be a fire , and in her terror drop the root .
Some people really light a fire and strew spikenard blossom in it ; but that be a clumsy method , for if the flame do not shoot up at the right moment away will fly the woodpecker , carry the root with her . ''
The party have listen with interest to this speech , but by the time it be end the hour be late , and they go their way homeward , leave only one man who have sit unheeded in a corner the whole evening through .
Master Peter Bloch have once be a prosperous innkeeper , and a master-cook ; but he have go steadily down in the world for some time , and be now quite poor .
Formerly he have be a merry fellow , fond of a joke , and in the art of cooking have no equal in the town .
He could make fish-jelly , and quince fritter , and even wafer-cakes ; and he gild the ear of all his boar ' head .
Peter have look about him for a wife early in life , but unluckily his choice fell upon a woman whose evil tongue be well know in the town .
Ilse be hat by everybody , and the young folk would go mile out of their way rather than meet her , for she have some ill-word for everyone .
Therefore , when Master Peter come along , and let himself be take in by her boast skill a a housewife , she jump at his offer , and they be marry the next day .
But they have not get home before they begin to quarrel .
In the joy of his heart Peter have taste freely of his own good wine , and a the bride hung upon his arm he stumble and fell , drag her down with him ; whereupon she beat him soundly , and the neighbour say truly that thing do not promise well for Master Peter 's comfort .
Even when the ill-matched couple be presently bless with child , his happiness be but short live , the savage temper of his quarrelsome wife seem to blight them from the first , and they die like little kid in a cold winter .
Though Master Peter have no great wealth to leave behind him , still it be sad to him to be childless ; and he would bemoan himself to his friend , when he lay one baby after another in the grave , say : ` The lightning have be among the cherry-blossoms again , so there will be no fruit to grow ripe . '
But , by-and-by , he have a little daughter so strong and healthy that neither her mother 's temper nor her father 's spoiling could keep her from grow up tall and beautiful .
Meanwhile the fortune of the family have change .
From his youth up , Master Peter have hat trouble ; when he have money he spend it freely , and feed all the hungry folk who ask him for bread .
If his pocket be empty he borrow of his neighbour , but he always take good care to prevent his scold wife from find out that he have do so .
His motto be : ` It will all come right in the end ' ; but what it do come to be ruin for Master Peter .
He be at his wit ' end to know how to earn an honest living , for try a he might ill-luck seem to pursue him , and he lose one post after another , till at last all he could do be to carry sack of corn to the mill for his wife , who scold him well if he be slow about it , and grudge him his portion of food .
This grieve the tender heart of his pretty daughter , who love him dearly , and be the comfort of his life .
Peter be think of her a he sit in the inn kitchen and hear the shepherd talk about the buried treasure , and for her sake he resolve to go and seek for it .
Before he rise from the landlord 's arm-chair his plan be make , and Master Peter go home more joyful and full of hope than he have be for many a long day ; but on the way he suddenly remember that he be not yet possess of the magic spring-root , and he steal into the house with a heavy heart , and throw himself down upon his hard straw bed .
He could neither sleep nor rest ; but as soon a it be light he get up and write down exactly all that be to be do to find the treasure , that he might not forget anything , and when it lay clear and plain before his eye he comfort himself with the thought that , though he must do the rough work for his wife during one more winter at least , he would not have to tread the path to the mill for the rest of his life .
Soon he hear his wife 's harsh voice sing it morning song a she go about her household affair , scold her daughter the while .
She burst open his door while he be still dress : ` Well , Toper ! '
be her greeting , ` have you be drink all night , waste money that you steal from my housekeeping ?
For shame , drunkard ! '
Master Peter , who be well use to this sort of talk , do not disturb himself , but wait till the storm blew over , then he say calmly : ` Do not be annoy , dear wife .
I have a good piece of business in hand which may turn out well for u . '
` You with a good business ? '
cry she , ` you be good for nothing but talk ! ' '
I be make my will , ' say he , ` that when my hour come my house may be in order . '
These unexpected word cut his daughter to the heart ; she remember that all night long she have dream of a newly dug grave , and at this thought she break out into loud lamentation .
But her mother only cry : ` Wretch !
have you not waste good and possession , and now do you talk of make a will ? '
And she seize him like a fury , and try to scratch out his eye .
But by-and-by the quarrel be patch up , and everything go on a before .
From that day Peter save up every penny that his daughter Lucia give him on the sly , and bribe the boy of his acquaintance to spy out a black woodpecker 's nest for him .
He send them into the wood and field , but instead of look for a nest they only play prank on him .
They lead him mile over hill and vale , stock and stone , to find a raven 's brood , or a nest of squirrel in a hollow tree , and when he be angry with them they laugh in his face and run away .
This go on for some time , but at last one of the boy spy out a woodpecker in the meadow-lands among the wood-pigeons , and when he have find her nest in a half-dead alder tree , come run to Peter with the news of his discovery .
Peter could hardly believe his good fortune , and go quickly to see for himself if it be really true ; and when he reach the tree there certainly be a bird fly in and out a if she have a nest in it .
Peter be overjoy at this fortunate discovery , and instantly set himself to obtain a red cloak .
Now in the whole town there be only one red cloak , and that belong to a man of whom nobody ever willingly ask a favour -- Master Hammerling the hangman .
It cost Master Peter many struggle before he could bring himself to visit such a person , but there be no help for it , and , little a he like it , he end by make his request to the hangman , who be flatter that so respectable a man a Peter should borrow his robe of office , and willingly lend it to him .
Peter now have all that be necessary to secure the magic root ; he stop up the entrance to the nest , and everything fell out exactly a Blaize have foretell .
As soon a the woodpecker come back with the root in her beak out rush Master Peter from behind the tree and display the fiery red cloak so adroitly that the terrified bird drop the root just where it could be easily see .
All Peter 's plan have succeed , and he actually hold in his hand the magic root -- that master-key which would unlock all door , and bring it possessor unheard-of luck .
His thought now turn to the mountain , and he secretly make preparation for his journey .
He take with him only a staff , a strong sack , and a little box which his daughter Lucia have give him .
It happen that on the very day Peter have choose for set out , Lucia and her mother go off early to the town , leave him to guard the house ; but in spite of that he be on the point of take his departure when it occur to him that it might be as well first to test the much-vaunted power of the magic root for himself .
Dame Ilse have a strong cupboard with seven lock build into the wall of her room , in which she keep all the money she have save , and she wear the key of it always hang about her neck .
Master Peter have no control at all of the money affair of the household , so the content of this secret hoard be quite unknown to him , and this seem to be a good opportunity for find out what they be .
He hold the magic root to the keyhole , and to his astonishment heard all the seven lock creak and turn , the door fly suddenly wide open , and his greedy wife 's store of gold piece lay before his eye .
He stand still in sheer amazement , not know which to rejoice over most -- this unexpected find , or the proof of the magic root 's real power ; but at last he remember that it be quite time to be start on his journey .
So , fill his pocket with the gold , he carefully lock the empty cupboard again and leave the house without further delay .
When Dame Ilse and her daughter return they wonder to find the house door shut , and Master Peter nowhere to be see .
They knock and call , but nothing stir within but the house cat , and at last the blacksmith have to be fetch to open the door .
Then the house be search from garret to cellar , but no Master Peter be to be find .
` Who know ? '
cry Dame Ilse at last , ` the wretch may have be idle in some tavern since early morning . '
Then a sudden thought startle her , and she felt for her key .
Suppose they have fall into her good-for-nothing husband 's hand and he have help himself to her treasure !
But no , the key be safe in their usual place , and the cupboard look quite untouched .
Mid-day come , then even , then midnight , and still no Master Peter appear , and the matter become really serious .
Dame Ilse know right well what a torment she have be to her husband , and remorse cause her the gloomy foreboding .
` Ah !
Lucia , ' she cry , ' I greatly fear that your father have do himself a mischief . '
And they sit till morning weep over their own fancy .
As soon a it be light they search every corner of the house again , and examine every nail in the wall and every beam ; but , luckily , Master Peter be not hang from any of them .
After that the neighbour go out with long pole to fish in every ditch and pond , but they find nothing , and then Dame Ilse give up the idea of ever see her husband again and very soon console herself , only wonder how the sack of corn be to be carry to the mill in future .
She decide to buy a strong as to do the work , and have choose one , and after some bargaining with the owner a to it price , she go to the cupboard in the wall to fetch the money .
But what be her feeling when she perceive that every shelf lay empty and bare before her !
For a moment she stand bewilder , then break into such frightful raving that Lucia run to her in alarm ; but as soon a she hear of the disappearance of the money she be heartily glad , and no longer fear that her father have come to any harm , but understand that he must have go out into the world to seek his fortune in some new way .
About a month after this , someone knock at Dame Ilse 's door one day , and she go to see if it be a customer for meal ; but in step a handsome young man , dress like a duke 's son , who greet her respectfully , and ask after her pretty daughter a if he be an old friend , though she could not remember have ever set eye upon him before .
However , she invite him to step into the house and be seat while he unfold his business .
With a great air of mystery he beg permission to speak to the fair Lucia , of whose skill in needlework he have hear so much , a he have a commission to give her .
Dame Ilse have her own opinion a to what kind of commission it be likely to be -- bring by a young stranger to a pretty maiden ; however , a the meeting would be under her own eye , she make no objection , but call to her industrious daughter , who leave off work and come obediently ; but when she saw the stranger she stop short , blushing , and cast down her eye .
He look at her fondly , and take her hand , which she try to draw away , cry : ` Ah !
Friedlin , why be you here ?
I think you be a hundred mile away .
Are you come to grieve me again ? '
` No , dear girl , ' answer he ; ' I be come to complete your happiness and my own .
Since we last meet my fortune have utterly change ; I be no longer the poor vagabond that I be then .
My rich uncle have die , leave me money and good in plenty , so that I dare to present myself to your mother a a suitor for your hand .
That I love you I know well ; if you can love me I be indeed a happy man . '
Lucia 's pretty blue eye have look up shyly a he speak , and now a smile part her rosy lip ; and she steal a glance at her mother to see what she think about it all ; but the dame stand lose in amazement to find that her daughter , whom she could have declare have never be out of her sight , be already well acquaint with the handsome stranger , and quite willing to be his bride .
Before she have do staring , this hasty wooer have smooth his way by cover the shin table with gold piece a a wedding gift to the bride 's mother , and have fill Lucia 's apron into the bargain ; after which the dame make no difficulty , and the matter be speedily settle .
While Ilse gather up the gold and hide it away safely , the lover whisper together , and what Friedlin tell her seemed to make Lucia every moment more happy and content .
Now a great hurry-burly begin in the house , and preparation for the wedding go on apace .
A few day later a heavily laden waggon drive up , and out of it come so many box and bale that Dame Ilse be lose in wonder at the wealth of her future son-in-law .
The day for the wedding be choose , and all their friend and neighbour be bid to the feast .
As Lucia be try on her bridal wreath she say to her mother : ` This wedding-garland would please me indeed if father Peter could lead me to the church .
If only he could come back again !
Here we be roll in rich while he may be nibble at hunger 's table . '
And the very idea of such a thing make her weep , while even Dame Ilse say : ' I should not be sorry myself to see him come back -- there be always something lack in a house when the good man be away . '
But the fact be that she be grow quite tire of have no one to scold .
And what do you think happen ?
On the very eve of the wed a man push a wheelbarrow arrive at the city gate , and pay toll upon a barrel of nail which it contain , and then make the best of his way to the bride 's dwelling and knock at the door .
The bride herself peep out of the window to see who it could be , and there stand father Peter !
Then there be great rejoicing in the house ; Lucia run to embrace him , and even Dame Ilse hold out her hand in welcome , and only say : ` Rogue , mend your way , ' when she remember the empty treasure cupboard .
Father Peter greet the bridegroom , look at him shrewdly , while the mother and daughter hasten to say all they know in his favour , and appear to be satisfy with him a a son-in-law .
When Dame Ilse have set something to eat before her husband , she be curious to hear his adventure , and question him eagerly a to why he have go away .
` God bless my native place , ' say he . '
I have be march through the country , and have try every kind of work , but now I have find a job in the iron trade ; only , so far , I have put more into it than I have earn by it .
This barrel of nail be my whole fortune , which I wish to give a my contribution towards the bride 's house furnishing . '
This speech rouse Dame Ilse to anger , and she break out into such shrill reproach that the bystander be fairly deafen , and Friedlin hastily offer Master Peter a home with Lucia and himself , promise that he should live in comfort , and be always welcome .
So Lucia have her heart 's desire , and father Peter lead her to the church next day , and the marriage take place very happily .
Soon afterwards the young people settle in a fine house which Friedlin have buy , and have a garden and meadow , a fishpond , and a hill cover with vine , and be as happy a the day be long .
Father Peter also stay quietly with them , live , a everybody believe , upon the generosity of his rich son-in law .
No one suspect that his barrel of nail be the real ` Horn of Plenty , ' from which all this prosperity overflow .
Peter have make the journey to the treasure mountain successfully , without be find out by anybody .
He have enjoy himself by the way , and take his own time , until he actually reach the little brook in the valley which it have cost him some trouble to find .
Then he press on eagerly , and soon come to the little hollow in the wood ; down he go , burrow like a mole into the earth ; the magic root do it work , and at last the treasure lay before his eye .
You may imagine how gaily Peter fill his sack with as much gold a he could carry , and how he stagger up the seventy-seven step with a heart full of hope and delight .
He do not quite trust the gnome 's promise of safety , and be in such haste to find himself once more in the light of day that he look neither to the right nor the left , and could not afterwards remember whether the wall and pillar have sparkle with jewel or not .
However , all go well -- he neither saw nor hear anything alarming ; the only thing that happen be that the great iron-barred door shut with a crash as soon a he be fairly outside it , and then he remember that he have leave the magic root behind him , so he could not go back for another load of treasure .
But even that do not trouble Peter much ; he be quite satisfied with what he have already .
After he have faithfully do everything accord to Father Martin 's instruction , and press the earth well back into the hollow , he sit down to consider how he could bring his treasure back to his native place , and enjoy it there , without be force to share it with his scold wife , who would give him no peace if she once find out about it .
At last , after much thinking , he hit upon a plan .
He carry his sack to the near village , and there buy a wheelbarrow , a strong barrel , and a quantity of nail .
Then he pack his gold into the barrel , cover it well with a layer of nail , hoist it on to the wheelbarrow with some difficulty , and set off with it upon his homeward way .
At one place upon the road he meet a handsome young man who seem by his downcast air to be in some great trouble .
Father Peter , who wish everybody to be as happy a he be himself , greet him cheerfully , and ask where he be go , to which he answer sadly : ` Into the wide world , good father , or out of it , where ever my foot may chance to carry me . '
` Why out of it ? '
say Peter .
` What have the world be do to you ? '
` It have do nothing to me , nor I to it , ' he reply .
` Nevertheless there be not anything leave in it for me . '
Father Peter do his best to cheer the young man up , and invite him to sup with him at the first inn they come to , think that perhaps hunger and poverty be cause the stranger 's trouble .
But when good food be set before him he seem to forget to eat .
So Peter perceive that what ail his guest be sorrow of heart , and ask him kindly to tell him his story .
` Where be the good , father ? '
say he .
` You can give me neither help nor comfort . '
` Who know ? '
answer Master Peter . '
I might be able to do something for you .
Often enough in life help come to u from the most unexpected quarter . '
The young man , thus encourage , begin his tale . '
I be , ' say he , ' a crossbow-man in the service of a noble count , in whose castle I be bring up .
Not long ago my master go on a journey , and bring back with him , amongst other treasure , the portrait of a fair maiden so sweet and lovely that I lose my heart at first sight of it , and could think of nothing but how I might seek her out and marry her .
The count have tell me her name , and where she live , but laugh at my love , and absolutely refuse to give me leave to go in search of her , so I be force to run away from the castle by night .
I soon reach the little town where the maiden dwelt ; but there fresh difficulty await me .
She live under the care of her mother , who be so severe that she be never allow to look out of the window , or set her foot outside the door alone , and how to make friend with her I do not know .
But at last I dress myself a an old woman , and knock boldly at her door .
The lovely maiden herself open it , and so charm me that I come near forget my disguise ; but I soon recover my wit , and beg her to work a fine table-cloth for me , for she be report to be the best needlewoman in all the country round .
Now I be free to go and see her often under the presence of see how the work be go oil , and one day , when her mother have go to the town , I venture to throw off my disguise , and tell her of my love .
She be startle at first ; but I persuade her to listen to me , and I soon saw that I be not displease to her , though she scold me gently for my disobedience to my master , and my deceit in disguise myself .
But when I beg her to marry me , she tell me sadly that her mother would scorn a penniless wooer , and implore me to go away at once , l trouble should fall upon her .
` Bitter a it be to me , I be force to go when she bid me , and I have wander about ever since , with grief gnawing at my heart ; for how can a masterless man , without money or good , ever hope to win the lovely Lucia ? '
Master Peter , who have be listen attentively , prick up his ear at the sound of his daughter 's name , and very soon find out that it be indeed with her that this young man be so deeply in love .
` Your story be strange indeed , ' say he .
` But where be the father of this maiden -- why do you not ask him for her hand ?
He might well take your part , and be glad to have you for his son-in-law . '
` Alas ! '
say the young man , ` her father be a wander good-for-naught , who have forsake wife and child , and go off -- who know where ?
The wife complains of him bitterly enough , and scold my dear maiden when she take her father 's part . '
Father Peter be somewhat amuse by this speech ; but he like the young man well , and saw that he be the very person he need to enable him to enjoy his wealth in peace , without be separate from his dear daughter .
` If you will take my advice , ' say he , ' I promise you that you shall marry this maiden whom you love so much , and that before you be many day older . '
` Comrade , ' cry Friedlin indignantly , for he think Peter do but jest with him , ` it be ill do to mock at an unhappy man ; you have good find someone else who will let himself be take in with your fine promise . '
And up he spring , and be go off hastily , when Master Peter catch him by the arm .
` Stay , hothead ! '
he cry ; ` it be no jest , and I be prepared to make good my word . '
Thereupon he show him the treasure hide under the nail , and unfold to him his plan , which be that Friedlin should play the part of the rich son-in-law , and keep a still tongue , that they might enjoy their wealth together in peace .
The young man be overjoy at this sudden change in his fortune , and do not know how to thank father Peter for his generosity .
They take the road again at dawn the next morning , and soon reach a town , where Friedlin equip himself a a gallant wooer should .
Father Peter fill his pocket with gold for the wedding dowry , and agree with him that when all be settle he should secretly send him word that Peter might send off the waggon load of house plenishings with which the rich bridegroom be to make such a stir in the little town where the bride live .
As they part , father Peter 's last command to Friedlin be to guard well their secret , and not even to tell it to Lucia till she be his wife .
Master Peter long enjoy the profit of his journey to the mountain , and no rumour of it ever get abroad .
In his old age his prosperity be so great that he himself do not know how rich he be ; but it be always suppose that the money be Friedlin 's .
He and his beloved wife live in the great happiness and peace , and rise to great honour in the town .
And to this day , when the citizen wish to describe a wealthy man , they say : ` As rich a Peter Bloch 's son-in-law ! '
The Cottager And His Cat Once upon a time there live an old man and his wife in a dirty , tumble-down cottage , not very far from the splendid palace where the king and queen dwelt .
In spite of the wretched state of the hut , which many people declare be too bad even for a pig to live in , the old man be very rich , for he be a great miser , and lucky besides , and would often go without food all day sooner than change one of his beloved gold piece .
But after a while he find that he have starve himself once too often .
He fell ill , and have no strength to get well again , and in a few day he die , leave his wife and one son behind him .
The night follow his death , the son dream that an unknown man appear to him and say : ` Listen to me ; your father be dead and your mother will soon die , and all their rich will belong to you .
Half of his wealth be ill-gotten , and this you must give back to the poor from whom he squeeze it .
The other half you must throw into the sea .
Watch , however , a the money sink into the water , and if anything should swim , catch it and keep it , even if it be nothing more than a bit of paper . '
Then the man vanish , and the youth awoke .
The remembrance of his dream trouble him greatly .
He do not want to part with the rich that his father have leave him , for he have know all his life what it be to be cold and hungry , and now he have hop for a little comfort and pleasure .
Still , he be honest and good-hearted , and if his father have come wrongfully by his wealth he felt he could never enjoy it , and at last he make up his mind to do a he have be bid .
He find out who be the people who be poor in the village , and spend half of his money in help them , and the other half he put in his pocket .
From a rock that jut right out into the sea he fling it in .
In a moment it be out of sight , and no man could have tell the spot where it have sink , except for a tiny scrap of paper float on the water .
He stretch down carefully and manage to reach it , and on open it find six shilling wrap inside .
This be now all the money he have in the world .
The young man stand and look at it thoughtfully .
` Well , I ca n't do much with this , ' he say to himself ; but , after all , six shilling be good than nothing , and he wrap them up again and slip them into his coat .
He work in his garden for the next few week , and he and his mother contrive to live on the fruit and vegetable he get out of it , and then she too die suddenly .
The poor fellow felt very sad when he have lay her in her grave , and with a heavy heart he wander into the forest , not know where he be go .
By-and-by he begin to get hungry , and see a small hut in front of him , he knock at the door and ask if they could give him some milk .
The old woman who open it beg him to come in , add kindly , that if he want a night 's lodging he might have it without it cost him anything .
Two woman and three men be at supper when he enter , and silently make room for him to sit down by them .
When he have eaten he begin to look about him , and be surprise to see an animal sitting by the fire different from anything he have ever notice before .
It be grey in colour , and not very big ; but it eye be large and very bright , and it seem to be sing in an odd way , quite unlike any animal in the forest .
` What be the name of that strange little creature ? '
ask he .
And they answer , ` We call it a cat . ' '
I should like to buy it -- if it be not too dear , ' say the young man ; ` it would be company for me . '
And they tell him that he might have it for six shilling , if he care to give so much .
The young man take out his precious bit of paper , hand them the six shilling , and the next morning bid them farewell , with the cat lie snugly in his cloak .
For the whole day they wander through meadow and forest , till in the evening they reach a house .
The young fellow knock at the door and ask the old man who open it if he could rest there that night , add that he have no money to pay for it .
` Then I must give it to you , ' answer the man , and lead him into a room where two woman and two men be sit at supper .
One of the woman be the old man 's wife , the other his daughter .
He place the cat on the mantel shelf , and they all crowd round to examine this strange beast , and the cat rub itself against them , and hold out it paw , and sang to them ; and the woman be delighted , and give it everything that a cat could eat , and a great deal more besides .
After hear the youth 's story , and how he have nothing in the world leave him except his cat , the old man advise him to go to the palace , which be only a few mile distant , and take counsel of the king , who be kind to everyone , and would certainly be his friend .
The young man thank him , and say he would gladly take his advice ; and early next morning he set out for the royal palace .
He send a message to the king to beg for an audience , and receive a reply that he be to go into the great hall , where he would find his Majesty .
The king be at dinner with his court when the young man enter , and he sign to him to come near .
The youth bow low , and then gaze in surprise at the crowd of little black creature who be run about the floor , and even on the table itself .
Indeed , they be so bold that they snatch piece of food from the King 's own plate , and if he drive them away , try to bite his hand , so that he could not eat his food , and his courtier fare no good .
` What sort of animal be these ? '
ask the youth of one of the lady sit near him .
` They be call rat , ' answer the king , who have overheard the question , ` and for year we have try some way of put an end to them , but it be impossible .
They come into our very beds . '
At this moment something be see fly through the air .
The cat be on the table , and with two or three shake a number of rat be lie dead round him .
Then a great scuffling of foot be hear , and in a few minute the hall be clear .
For some minute the King and his courtier only look at each other in astonishment .
` What kind of animal be that which can work magic of this sort ? '
ask he .
And the young man tell him that it be call a cat , and that he have buy it for six shilling .
And the King answer : ` Because of the luck you have bring me , in free my palace from the plague which have torment me for many year , I will give you the choice of two thing .
Either you shall be my Prime Minister , or else you shall marry my daughter and reign after me .
Say , which shall it be ? '
` The princess and the kingdom , ' say the young man .
And so it be .
-LSB- From Islandische Marchen . -RSB-
The Prince Who Would Seek Immortality Once upon a time , in the very middle of the middle of a large kingdom , there be a town , and in the town a palace , and in the palace a king .
This king have one son whom his father thought be wise and clever than any son ever be before , and indeed his father have spar no pain to make him so .
He have be very careful in choose his tutor and governor when he be a boy , and when he become a youth he send him to travel , so that he might see the way of other people , and find that they be often as good a his own .
It be now a year since the prince have return home , for his father felt that it be time that his son should learn how to rule the kingdom which would one day be his .
But during his long absence the prince seem to have change his character altogether .
From be a merry and light-hearted boy , he have grow into a gloomy and thoughtful man .
The king knew of nothing that could have produce such an alteration .
He vex himself about it from morning till night , till at length an explanation occur to him -- the young man be in love !
Now the prince never talk about his feeling -- for the matter of that he scarcely talk at all ; and the father know that if he be to come to the bottom of the prince 's dismal face , he would have to begin .
So one day , after dinner , he take his son by the arm and lead him into another room , hung entirely with the picture of beautiful maiden , each one more lovely than the other .
` My dear boy , ' he say , ` you be very sad ; perhaps after all your wandering it be dull for you here all alone with me .
It would be much good if you would marry , and I have collect here the portrait of the most beautiful woman in the world of a rank equal to your own .
Choose which among them you would like for a wife , and I will send an embassy to her father to ask for her hand . '
` Alas !
your Majesty , ' answer the prince , ` it be not love or marriage that make me so gloomy ; but the thought , which haunt me day and night , that all men , even king , must die .
Never shall I be happy again till I have find a kingdom where death be unknown .
And I have determine to give myself no rest till I have discover the Land of Immortality .
The old king hear him with dismay ; thing be bad than he think .
He try to reason with his son , and tell him that during all these year he have be look forward to his return , in order to resign his throne and it care , which press so heavily upon him .
But it be in vain that he talk ; the prince would listen to nothing , and the following morning buckle on his sword and set forth on his journey .
He have be travel for many day , and have leave his fatherland behind him , when close to the road he come upon a huge tree , and on it topmost bough an eagle be sit shake the branch with all his might .
This seem so strange and so unlike an eagle , that the prince stand still with surprise , and the bird saw him and fly to the ground .
The moment it foot touch the ground he change into a king .
` Why do you look so astonished ? '
he ask . '
I be wonder why you shake the bough so fiercely , ' answer the prince . '
