Think of that , girl !
Fourteen year at Chestnut Terrace !
Is it any wonder that she be thin and dried-up and snappy ? ''
`` Nobody ever come to see her and she never go anywhere , '' say Beth .
`` Dear me !
She must feel lonely now when everybody else be be remember by their friend .
I ca n't forget her face tonight ; it actually haunt me .
Girls , how would you feel if you have n't anyone belong to you , and if nobody think about you at Christmas ? ''
`` Ow ! ''
say Olive , a if the mere idea make her shiver .
A little silence follow .
To tell the truth , none of them like Miss Allen .
They know that she do not like them either , but consider them frivolous and pert , and complain when they make a racket .
`` The skeleton at the feast , '' Jean call her , and certainly the presence of the pale , silent , discontented-looking woman at the No . 16 table do not tend to heighten it festivity .
Presently Jean say with a dramatic flourish , `` Girls , I have an inspiration -- a Christmas inspiration ! ''
`` What be it ? ''
cry four voice .
`` Just this .
Let u give Miss Allen a Christmas surprise .
She have not receive a single present and I 'm sure she feel lonely .
Just think how we would feel if we be in her place . ''
`` That be true , '' say Olive thoughtfully .
`` Do you know , girl , this evening I go to her room with a message from Mrs. Pickrell , and I do believe she have be cry .
Her room look dreadfully bare and cheerless , too .
I think she be very poor .
What be we to do , Jean ? ''
`` Let u each give her something nice .
We can put the thing just outside of her door so that she will see them whenever she open it .
I 'll give her some of Fred 's rose too , and I 'll write a Christmassy letter in my very best style to go with them , '' say Jean , warm up to her idea a she talk .
The other girl catch her spirit and enter into the plan with enthusiasm .
`` Splendid ! ''
cry Beth .
`` Jean , it be an inspiration , sure enough .
Have n't we be horribly selfish -- thinking of nothing but our own gift and fun and pleasure ?
I really feel ashamed . ''
`` Let u do the thing up the very best way we can , '' say Nellie , forget even her beloved chocolate in her eagerness .
`` The shop be open yet .
Let u go up town and invest . ''
Five minute later five capped and jacketed figure be scurry up the street in the frosty , starlit December dusk .
Miss Allen in her cold little room hear their gay voice and sigh .
She be cry by herself in the dark .
It be Christmas for everybody but her , she think drearily .
In an hour the girl come back with their purchase .
`` Now , let 's hold a council of war , '' say Jean jubilantly .
`` I have n't the faint idea what Miss Allen would like so I just guess wildly .
I get her a lace handkerchief and a big bottle of perfume and a painted photograph frame -- and I 'll stick my own photo in it for fun .
That be really all I could afford .
Christmas purchase have leave my purse dreadfully lean . ''
`` I get her a glove-box and a pin tray , '' say Belle , `` and Olive get her a calendar and Whittier 's poem .
And besides we be go to give her half of that big plummy fruit cake Mother send u from home .
I 'm sure she have n't taste anything so delicious for year , for fruit cake do n't grow on Chestnut Terrace and she never go anywhere else for a meal . ''
Beth have buy a pretty cup and saucer and say she mean to give one of her pretty water-colours too .
Nellie , true to her reputation , have invest in a big box of chocolate cream , a gorgeously strip candy cane , a bag of orange , and a brilliant lampshade of rose-coloured crepe paper to top off with .
`` It make such a lot of show for the money , '' she explain .
`` I be bankrupt , like Jean . ''
`` Well , we 've get a lot of pretty thing , '' say Jean in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Now we must do them up nicely .
Will you wrap them in tissue paper , girl , and tie them with baby ribbon -- here 's a box of it -- while I write that letter ? ''
While the others chat over their parcel Jean write her letter , and Jean could write delightful letter .
She have a decided talent in that respect , and her correspondent all declare her letter to be thing of beauty and joy forever .
She put her best into Miss Allen 's Christmas letter .
Since then she have write many bright and clever thing , but I do not believe she ever in her life write anything more genuinely original and delightful than that letter .
Besides , it breathe the very spirit of Christmas , and all the girl declare that it be splendid .
`` You must all sign it now , '' say Jean , `` and I 'll put it in one of those big envelope ; and , Nellie , wo n't you write her name on it in fancy letter ? ''
Which Nellie proceed to do , and furthermore embellish the envelope by a border of chubby cherub , dance hand in hand around it and a sketch of No . 16 Chestnut Terrace in the corner in lieu of a stamp .
Not content with this she hunt out a huge sheet of draw paper and draw upon it an original pen-and-ink design after her own heart .
A dudish cat -- Miss Allen be fond of the No . 16 cat if she could be say to be fond of anything -- be portray seat on a rocker array in smoke jacket and cap with a cigar wave airily aloft in one paw while the other hold out a placard bear the legend `` Merry Christmas . ''
A second cat in full street costume bow politely , hat in paw , and wave a banner inscribed with `` Happy New Year , '' while faintly suggest kitten gambol around the border .
The girl laugh until they cry over it and vote it to be the best thing Nellie have yet do in original work .
All this have take time and it be past eleven o'clock .
Miss Allen have cry herself to sleep long ago and everybody else in Chestnut Terrace be abed when five figure cautiously creep down the hall , head by Jean with a dim lamp .
Outside of Miss Allen 's door the procession halt and the girl silently arrange their gift on the floor .
`` That 's do , '' whisper Jean in a tone of satisfaction a they tiptoe back .
`` And now let u go to bed or Mrs. Pickrell , bless her heart , will be down on u for burn so much midnight oil .
Oil have go up , you know , girl . ''
It be in the early morning that Miss Allen open her door .
But early a it be , another door down the hall be half open too and five rosy face be peer cautiously out .
The girl have be up for an hour for fear they would miss the sight and be all in Nellie 's room , which command a view of Miss Allen 's door .
That lady 's face be a study .
Amazement , incredulity , wonder , chase each other over it , succeed by a glow of pleasure .
On the floor before her be a snug little pyramid of parcel top by Jean 's letter .
On a chair behind it be a bowl of delicious hot-house rose and Nellie 's placard .
Miss Allen look down the hall but saw nothing , for Jean have slam the door just in time .
Half an hour later when they be go down to breakfast Miss Allen come along the hall with outstretched hand to meet them .
She have be cry again , but I think her tear be happy one ; and she be smile now .
A cluster of Jean 's rose be pin on her breast .
`` Oh , girl , girl , '' she say , with a little tremble in her voice , `` I can never thank you enough .
It be so kind and sweet of you .
You do n't know how much good you have do me . ''
Breakfast be an unusually cheerful affair at No . 16 that morning .
There be no skeleton at the feast and everybody be beam .
Miss Allen laugh and talk like a girl herself .
`` Oh , how surprised I be ! ''
she say .
`` The rose be like a bit of summer , and those cat of Nellie 's be so funny and delightful .
And your letter too , Jean !
I cry and laugh over it .
I shall read it every day for a year . ''
After breakfast everyone go to Christmas service .
The girl go uptown to the church they attend .
The city be very beautiful in the morning sunshine .
There have be a white frost in the night and the tree-lined avenue and public square seem like glimpse of fairyland .
`` How lovely the world be , '' say Jean .
`` This be really the very happy Christmas morning I have ever know , '' declare Nellie .
`` I never felt so really Christmassy in my inmost soul before . ''
`` I suppose , '' say Beth thoughtfully , `` that it be because we have discover for ourselves the old truth that it be more blessed to give than to receive .
I 've always know it , in a way , but I never realize it before . ''
`` Blessing on Jean 's Christmas inspiration , '' say Nellie .
`` But , girl , let u try to make it an all-the-year-round inspiration , I say .
We can bring a little of our own sunshine into Miss Allen 's life as long a we live with her . ''
`` Amen to that ! ''
say Jean heartily .
`` Oh , listen , girl -- the Christmas chime ! ''
And over all the beautiful city be waft the grand old message of peace on earth and good will to all the world .
A Christmas Mistake `` Tomorrow be Christmas , '' announce Teddy Grant exultantly , a he sit on the floor struggle manfully with a refractory bootlace that be knot and tagless and stubbornly refuse to go into the eyelet of Teddy 's patched boot .
`` Ai n't I glad , though .
Hurrah ! ''
His mother be wash the breakfast dish in a dreary , listless sort of way .
She look tired and broken-spirited .
Ted 's enthusiasm seem to grate on her , for she answer sharply : `` Christmas , indeed .
I ca n't see that it be anything for u to rejoice over .
Other people may be glad enough , but what with winter come on I 'd sooner it be spring than Christmas .
Mary Alice , do lift that child out of the ash and put it shoe and stocking on .
Everything seem to be at six and seven here this morning . ''
Keith , the old boy , be coil up on the sofa calmly work out some algebra problem , quite oblivious to the noise around him .
But he look up from his slate , with his pencil suspend above an obstinate equation , to declaim with a flourish : `` Christmas come but once a year , And then Mother wish it be n't here . ''
`` I do n't , then , '' say Gordon , son number two , who be prepare his own noon lunch of bread and molasses at the table , and make an atrocious mess of crumb and sugary syrup over everything .
`` I know one thing to be thankful for , and that be that there 'll be no school .
We 'll have a whole week of holiday . ''
Gordon be note for his aversion to school and his affection for holiday .
`` And we 're go to have turkey for dinner , '' declare Teddy , get up off the floor and rush to secure his share of bread and molasses , `` and cranb ` ry sauce and -- and -- pound cake !
Ai n't we , Ma ? ''
`` No , you be not , '' say Mrs. Grant desperately , drop the dishcloth and snatch the baby on her knee to wipe the crust of cinder and molasses from the chubby pink-and-white face .
`` You may as well know it now , child , I 've keep it from you so far in hope that something would turn up , but nothing have .
We ca n't have any Christmas dinner tomorrow -- we ca n't afford it .
I 've pinch and save every way I could for the last month , hop that I 'd be able to get a turkey for you anyhow , but you 'll have to do without it .
There 's that doctor 's bill to pay and a dozen other bill come in -- and people say they ca n't wait .
I suppose they ca n't , but it 's kind of hard , I must say . ''
The little Grants stand with open mouth and horrified eye .
No turkey for Christmas !
Was the world come to an end ?
Would n't the government interfere if anyone venture to dispense with a Christmas celebration ?
The gluttonous Teddy stuff his fist into his eye and lift up his voice .
Keith , who understand good than the others the look on his mother 's face , take his blubbering young brother by the collar and march him into the porch .
The twin , see the summary proceeding , swallow the outcry they have intend to make , although they could n't keep a few big tear from run down their fat cheek .
Mrs. Grant look pityingly at the disappointed face about her .
`` Do n't cry , child , you make me feel bad .
We be not the only one who will have to do without a Christmas turkey .
We ought to be very thankful that we have anything to eat at all .
I hate to disappoint you , but it ca n't be help . ''
`` Never mind , Mother , '' say Keith , comfortingly , relax his hold upon the porch door , whereupon it suddenly fly open and precipitated Teddy , who have be tug at the handle , heel over head backwards .
`` We know you 've do your best .
It 's be a hard year for you .
Just wait , though .
I 'll soon be grow up , and then you and these greedy youngster shall feast on turkey every day of the year .
Hello , Teddy , have you get on your foot again ?
Mind , sir , no more blubbering ! ''
`` When I 'm a man , '' announce Teddy with dignity , `` I 'd just like to see you put me in the porch .
And I mean to have turkey all the time and I wo n't give you any , either . ''
`` All right , you greedy small boy .
Only take yourself off to school now , and let u hear no more squeak out of you .
Tramp , all of you , and give Mother a chance to get her work do . ''
Mrs. Grant get up and fell to work at her dish with a brighter face .
`` Well , we must n't give in ; perhaps thing will be well after a while .
I 'll make a famous bread pudding , and you can boil some molasses taffy and ask those little Smithsons next door to help you pull it .
They wo n't whine for turkey , I 'll be bind .
I do n't suppose they ever taste such a thing in all their life .
If I could afford it , I 'd have have them all in to dinner with u .
That sermon Mr. Evans preach last Sunday kind of stir me up .
He say we ought always to try and share our Christmas joy with some poor soul who have never learn the meaning of the word .
I ca n't do as much a I 'd like to .
It be different when your father be alive . ''
The noisy group grow silent a they always do when their father be speak of .
He have die the year before , and since his death the little family have have a hard time .
Keith , to hide his feeling , begin to hector the rest .
`` Mary Alice , do hurry up .
Here , you twin nuisance , get off to school .
If you do n't you 'll be late and then the master will give you a whip . ''
`` He wo n't , '' answer the irrepressible Teddy .
`` He never whip u , he do n't .
He stand u on the floor sometimes , though , '' he add , remember the many time his own chubby leg have be see to good advantage on the school platform .
`` That man , '' say Mrs. Grant , allude to the teacher , `` make me nervous .
He be the most abstracted creature I ever saw in my life .
It be a wonder to me he do n't walk straight into the river some day .
You 'll meet him meander along the street , gaze into vacancy , and he 'll never see you nor hear a word you say half the time . ''
`` Yesterday , '' say Gordon , chuckle over the remembrance , `` he come in with a big piece of paper he 'd pick up on the entry floor in one hand and his hat in the other -- and he stuff his hat into the coal-scuttle and hang up the paper on a nail as grave a you please .
Never know the difference till Ned Slocum go and tell him .
He 's always do thing like that . ''
Keith have collect his book and now march his brother and sister off to school .
Left alone with the baby , Mrs. Grant betook herself to her work with a heavy heart .
But a second interruption break the progress of her dish-washing .
`` I declare , '' she say , with a surprised glance through the window , `` if there be n't that absent-minded schoolteacher come through the yard !
What can he want ?
Dear me , I do hope Teddy have n't be cut caper in school again . ''
For the teacher 's last call have be in October and have be occasion by the fact that the irrepressible Teddy would persist in go to school with his pocket fill with live cricket and in drive them harness to string up and down the aisle when the teacher 's back be turn .
All mild method of punishment have fail , the teacher have call to talk it over with Mrs. Grant , with the happy result that Teddy 's behaviour have improve -- in the matter of cricket at least .
But it be about time for another outbreak .
Teddy have be unnaturally good for too long a time .
Poor Mrs. Grant fear that it be the calm before a storm , and it be with nervous haste that she go to the door and greet the young teacher .
He be a slight , pale , boyish-looking fellow , with an abstract , muse look in his large dark eye .
Mrs. Grant notice with amusement that he wear a white straw hat in spite of the season .
His eye be direct to her face with his usual unseeing gaze .
`` Just a though he be look through me at something a thousand mile away , '' say Mrs. Grant afterwards .
`` I believe he be , too .
His body be right there on the step before me , but where his soul be be more than you or I or anybody can tell . ''
`` Good morning , '' he say absently .
`` I have just call on my way to school with a message from Miss Millar .
She want you all to come up and have Christmas dinner with her tomorrow . ''
`` For the land 's sake ! ''
say Mrs. Grant blankly .
`` I do n't understand . ''
To herself she think , `` I wish I dare take him and shake him to find if he 's walk in his sleep or not . ''
`` You and all the child -- every one , '' go on the teacher dreamily , a if he be recite a lesson learn beforehand .
`` She tell me to tell you to be sure and come .
Shall I say that you will ? ''
`` Oh , yes , that be -- I suppose -- I do n't know , '' say Mrs. Grant incoherently .
`` I never expect -- yes , you may tell her we 'll come , '' she conclude abruptly .
`` Thank you , '' say the abstracted messenger , gravely lift his hat and look squarely through Mrs. Grant into unknown region .
When he have go Mrs. Grant go in and sit down , laugh in a sort of hysterical way .
`` I wonder if it be all right .
Could Cornelia really have tell him ?
She must , I suppose , but it be enough to take one 's breath . ''
Mrs. Grant and Cornelia Millar be cousin , and have once be the close of friend , but that be year ago , before some spiteful report and ill-natured gossip have come between them , make only a little rift at first that soon widen into a chasm of coldness and alienation .
Therefore this invitation surprise Mrs. Grant greatly .
Miss Cornelia be a maiden lady of certain year , with a comfortable bank account and a handsome , old-fashioned house on the hill behind the village .
She always board the schoolteacher and look after them maternally ; she be an active church worker and a tower of strength to struggle minister and their family .
`` If Cornelia have see fit at last to hold out the hand of reconciliation I 'm glad enough to take it .
Dear know , I 've want to make up often enough , but I do n't think she ever would .
We 've both of u get too much pride and stubbornness .
It 's the Turner blood in u that do it .
The Turners be all so set .
But I mean to do my part now she have do hers . ''
And Mrs. Grant make a final attack on the dish with a beam face .
When the little Grants come home and hear the news , Teddy stand on his head to express his delight , the twin kiss each other , and Mary Alice and Gordon dance around the kitchen .
Keith think himself too big to betray any joy over a Christmas dinner , but he whistle while do the chore until the bare welkin in the yard rang , and Teddy , in spite of unheard of misdemeanour , be not collar off into the porch once .
When the young teacher get home from school that even he find the yellow house full of all sort of delectable odour .
Miss Cornelia herself be concoct mince pie after the famous family recipe , while her ancient and faithful handmaiden , Hannah , be strain into mould the cranberry jelly .
The open pantry door reveal a tempting array of Christmas delicacy .
`` Did you call and invite the Smithsons up to dinner a I tell you ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia anxiously .
`` Yes , '' be the dreamy response a he glide through the kitchen and vanish into the hall .
Miss Cornelia crimp the edge of her pie delicately with a relieved air .
`` I make certain he 'd forget it , '' she say .
`` You just have to watch him a if he be a mere child .
Did n't I catch him yesterday start off to school in his carpet slipper ?
And in spite of me he get away today in that ridiculous summer hat .
You 'd better set that jelly in the out-pantry to cool , Hannah ; it look good .
We 'll give those poor little Smithsons a feast for once in their life if they never get another . ''
At this juncture the hall door fly open and Mr. Palmer appear on the threshold .
He seem considerably agitate and for once his eye have lose their look of space-searching .
`` Miss Millar , I be afraid I do make a mistake this morning -- it have just dawn on me .
I be almost sure that I call at Mrs. Grant 's and invite her and her family instead of the Smithsons .
And she say they would come . ''
Miss Cornelia 's face be a study .
`` Mr. Palmer , '' she say , flourish her crimping fork tragically , `` do you mean to say you go and invite Linda Grant here tomorrow ?
Linda Grant , of all woman in this world ! ''
`` I do , '' say the teacher with penitent wretchedness .
`` It be very careless of me -- I be very sorry .
What can I do ?
I 'll go down and tell them I make a mistake if you like . ''
`` You ca n't do that , '' groan Miss Cornelia , sit down and wrinkle up her forehead in dire perplexity .
`` It would never do in the world .
For pity 's sake , let me think for a minute . ''
Miss Cornelia do think -- to good purpose evidently , for her forehead smooth out a her meditation proceed and her face brighten .
Then she get up briskly .
`` Well , you 've do it and no mistake .
I do n't know that I 'm sorry , either .
Anyhow , we 'll leave it a it be .
But you must go straight down now and invite the Smithsons too .
And for pity 's sake , do n't make any more mistake . ''
When he have go Miss Cornelia open her heart to Hannah .
`` I never could have do it myself -- never ; the Turner be too strong in me .
But I 'm glad it be do .
I 've be want for year to make up with Linda .
And now the chance have come , thanks to that bless blundering boy , I mean to make the most of it .
Mind , Hannah , you never whisper a word about it be a mistake .
Linda must never know .
Poor Linda !
She 's have a hard time .
Hannah , we must make some more pie , and I must go straight down to the store and get some more Santa Claus stuff ; I 've only get enough to go around the Smithsons . ''
When Mrs. Grant and her family arrive at the yellow house next morning Miss Cornelia herself run out bareheaded to meet them .
The two woman shake hand a little stiffly and then a rill of long-repressed affection trickle out from some secret spring in Miss Cornelia 's heart and she kiss her new-found old friend tenderly .
Linda return the kiss warmly , and both felt that the old-time friendship be theirs again .
The little Smithsons all come and they and the little Grants sit down on the long bright din room to a dinner that make history in their small life , and be eat over again in happy dream for month .
How those child do eat !
And how beaming Miss Cornelia and grim-faced , soft-hearted Hannah and even the absent-minded teacher himself enjoy watch them !
After dinner Miss Cornelia distribute among the delighted little soul the present she have buy for them , and then turn them loose in the big shining kitchen to have a taffy pull -- and they have it to their heart ' content !
And a for the shocking , taffyfied state into which they get their own rosy face and that once immaculate domain -- well , a Miss Cornelia and Hannah never say one word about it , neither will I .
The four woman enjoy the afternoon in their own way , and the schoolteacher bury himself in algebra to his own great satisfaction .
When her guest go home in the starlit December dusk , Miss Cornelia walk part of the way with them and have a long confidential talk with Mrs. Grant .
When she return it be to find Hannah groan in and over the kitchen and the schoolteacher dreamily try to clean some molasses off his boot with the kitchen hairbrush .
Long-suffering Miss Cornelia rescue her property and despatch Mr. Palmer into the woodshed to find the shoe-brush .
Then she sit down and laugh .
`` Hannah , what will become of that boy yet ?
There 's no counting on what he 'll do next .
I do n't know how he 'll ever get through the world , I 'm sure , but I 'll look after him while he 's here at least .
I owe him a huge debt of gratitude for this Christmas blunder .
What an awful mess this place be in !
But , Hannah , do you ever in the world see anything so delightful a that little Tommy Smithson stuff himself with plum cake , not to mention Teddy Grant ?
It do me good just to see them . ''
A Strayed Allegiance `` Will you go to the Cove with me this afternoon ? ''
It be Marian Lesley who ask the question .
Esterbrook Elliott unpin with a masterful touch the delicate cluster of Noisette rosebud she wear at her throat and transfer them to his buttonhole a he answer courteously : `` Certainly .
My time , a you know , be entirely at your disposal . ''
They be stand in the garden under the creamy bloom of droop acacia tree .
One long plume of blossom touch lightly the soft , golden-brown coil of the girl 's hair and cast a wavering shadow over the beautiful , flower-like face beneath it .
Esterbrook Elliott , stand before her , think proudly that he have never see a woman who might compare with her .
In every detail she satisfy his critical , fastidious taste .
There be not a discordant touch about her .
Esterbrook Elliott have always love Marian Lesley -- or think he have .
They have grow up together from childhood .
He be an only son and she an only daughter .
It have always be an understood thing between the two family that the boy and girl should marry .
But Marian 's father have decree that no positive pledge should pass between them until Marian be twenty-one .
Esterbrook accept his mapped-out destiny and select bride with the conviction that he be an exceptionally lucky fellow .
Out of all the woman in the world Marian be the very one whom he would have choose a mistress of his fine , old home .
She have be his boyhood 's ideal .
He believe that he love her sincerely , but he be not too much in love to be blind to the worldly advantage of his marriage with his cousin .
His father have die two year previously , leave him wealthy and independent .
Marian have lose her mother in childhood ; her father die when she be eighteen .
Since then she have live alone with her aunt .
Her life be quiet and lonely .
Esterbrook 's companionship be all that brighten it , but it be enough .
Marian lavish on him all the rich , womanly love of her heart .
On her twenty-first birthday they be formally betroth .
They be to be marry in the following autumn .
No shadow have drift across the heaven of her happiness .
She believe herself secure in her lover 's unfaltering devotion .
True , at time she think his manner lack a lover 's passionate ardour .
He be always attentive and courteous .
She have only to utter a wish to find that it have be anticipate ; he spend every spare minute at her side .
Yet sometimes she half wish he would betray more lover-like impatience and intensity .
Were all lover a calm and undemonstrative ?
She reproach herself for this incipient disloyalty as often a it vexingly intrude it unwelcome presence across her inner consciousness .
Surely Esterbrook be fond and devote enough to satisfy the most exacting demand of affection .
Marian herself be somewhat undemonstrative and reserve .
Passing acquaintance call her cold and proud .
Only the privilege few know the rich depth of womanly tenderness in her nature .
Esterbrook think that he fully appreciate her .
As he have walk homeward the night of their betrothal , he have review with unconscious criticism his mental catalogue of Marian 's grace and good quality , admit , with supreme satisfaction , that there be not one thing about her that he could wish change .
This afternoon , under the acacia , they have be plan about their wedding .
There be no one to consult but themselves .
They be to be marry early in September and then go abroad .
Esterbrook map out the detail of their bridal tour with careful thoughtfulness .
They would visit all the old-world place that Marian wish to see .
Afterwards they would come back home .
He discuss certain change he wish to make in the old Elliott mansion to fit it for a young and beautiful mistress .
He do most of the planning .
Marian be content to listen in happy silence .
Afterwards she have propose this walk to the Cove .
`` What particular object of charity have you find at the Cove now ? ''
ask Esterbrook , with lazy interest , a they walk along .
`` Mrs. Barrett 's little Bessie be very ill with fever , '' answer Marian .
Then , catch his anxious look , she hasten to add , `` It be nothing infectious -- some kind of a slow , sap variety .
There be no danger , Esterbrook . ''
`` I be not afraid for myself , '' he reply quietly .
`` My alarm be for you .
You be too precious to me , Marian , for me to permit you to risk health and life , if it be dangerous .
What a Lady Bountiful you be to those people at the Cove .
When we be marry you must take me in hand and teach me your creed of charity .
I 'm afraid I 've live a rather selfish life .
You will change all that , dear .
You will make a good man of me . ''
`` You be that now , Esterbrook , '' she say softly .
`` If you be not , I could not love you . ''
`` It be a negative sort of goodness , I fear .
I have never be try or tempt severely .
Perhaps I should fail under the test . ''
`` I be sure you would not , '' answer Marian proudly .
Esterbrook laugh ; her faith in him be pleasant .
He have no thought but that he would prove worthy of it .
The Cove , so-called , be a little fishing hamlet situate on the low , sandy shore of a small bay .
The house , cluster in one spot , seem like nothing so much a large shell wash up by the sea , so grey and bleach be they from long exposure to sea wind and spray .
Dozens of ragged child be play about them , mingle with several disreputable yellow cur that yap noisily at the stranger .
Down on the sandy strip of beach below the house group of men be lounge about .
The mackerel , season have not yet set in ; the spring herring netting be past .
It be holiday time among the sea folk .
They be enjoy it to the full , a happy , ragged colony , careless of what the morrow might bring forth .
Out beyond , the boat be at anchor , float a gracefully on the twinkling water a sea bird , their tall mast bow landward on the swell .
A lazy , dreamful calm have fall over the distant sea ; the horizon blue be pale and dim ; faint purple haze blur the outline of far-off headland and cliff ; the yellow sand sparkle in the sunshine a if powder with jewel .
A murmurous babble of life buzz about the hamlet , pierce through by the shrill undertone of the wrangling child , most of whom have pause in their play to scan the visitor with covert curiosity .
Marian lead the way to a house apart from the others at the very edge of the shelving rock .
The dooryard be scrupulously clean and unlittered ; the little footpath through it be neatly border by white clam shell ; several thrifty geranium in bloom look out from the muslin-curtained window .
A weary-faced woman come forward to meet them .
`` Bessie 's much the same , Miss Lesley , '' she say , in answer to Marian 's inquiry .
`` The doctor you send be here today and do all he could for her .
He seem quite hopeful .
She do n't complain or nothing -- just lie there and moan .
Sometimes she get restless .
It 's very kind of you to come so often , Miss Lesley .
Here , Magdalen , will you put this basket the lady 's bring up there on the shelf ? ''
A girl , who have be sit unnoticed with her back to the visitor , at the head of the child 's cot in one corner of the room , stand up and slowly turn around .
Marian and Esterbrook Elliott both start with involuntary surprise .
Esterbrook catch his breath like a man suddenly awaken from sleep .
In the name of all that be wonderful , who or what could this girl be , so little in harmony with her surroundings ?
Standing in the crepuscular light of the corner , her marvellous beauty shone out with the vivid richness of some rare painting .
She be tall , and the magnificent proportion of her figure be enhance rather than mar by the severely plain dress of dark print that she wear .
The heavy mass of her hair , a shin auburn dash with golden foam , be coil in a rich , glossy knot at the back of the classically model head and ripple back from a low brow whose waxen fairness even the breeze of the ocean have spar .
The girl 's face be a full , perfect oval , with feature of faultless regularity , and the large , full eye be of tawny hazel , darken into inscrutable gloom in the dimness of the corner .
Not even Marian Lesley 's face be more delicately tint , but not a trace of colour appear in the smooth , marble-like cheek ; yet the waxen pallor bore no trace of disease or weakness , and the large , curve mouth be of an intense crimson .
She stand quite motionless .
There be no trace of embarrassment or self-consciousness in her pose .
When Mrs. Barrett say , `` This be my niece , Magdalen Crawford , '' she merely incline her head in grave , silent acknowledgement .
As she move forward to take Marian 's basket , she seem oddly out of place in the low , crowded room .
Her presence seem to throw a strange restraint over the group .
Marian rise and go over to the cot , lay her slender hand on the hot forehead of the little sufferer .
The child open it brown eye questioningly .
`` How be you today , Bessie ? ''
`` Mad ` len -- I want Mad ` len , '' moan the little plaintive voice .
Magdalen come over and stand beside Marian Lesley .
`` She want me , '' she say in a low , thrilling voice ; free from all harsh accent or intonation .
`` I be the only one she seem to know always .
Yes , darling , Mad ` len be here -- right beside you .
She will not leave you . ''
She kneel by the little cot and pass her arm under the child 's neck , draw the curly head close to her throat with a tender , soothe motion .
Esterbrook Elliott watch the two woman intently -- the one standing by the cot , array in simple yet costly apparel , with her beautiful , high-bred face , and the other , kneel on the bare , sand floor in her print dress , with her splendid head bent low over the child and the long fringe of burnished lash sweep the cold pallor of the oval cheek .
From the moment that Magdalen Crawford 's haunt eye have look straight into his for one fleeting second , an unnamable thrill of pain and pleasure stir his heart , a thrill so strong and sudden and passionate that his face pal with emotion ; the room seem to swim before his eye in a mist out of which gleam that wonderful face with it mesmeric , darkly radiant eye , burn their way into deep and abyss of his soul hitherto unknown to him .
When the mist clear away and his head grow steady , he wonder at himself .
Yet he tremble in every limb and the only clear idea that struggle out of his confused thought be an overmaster desire to take that cold face between his hand and kiss it until it passionless marble glow into warm and throbbing life .
`` Who be that girl ? ''
he say abruptly , when they have leave the cottage .
`` She be the most beautiful woman I have ever see -- present company always except , '' he conclude , with a depreciatory laugh .
The delicate bloom on Marian 's face deepen slightly .
`` You have much good to have omit that last sentence , '' she say quietly , `` it be so palpably an afterthought .
Yes , she be wonderfully lovely -- a strange beauty , I fancy .
There seem something odd and uncanny about it to me .
She must be Mrs. Barrett 's niece .
I remember that when I be down here about a month ago Mrs. Barrett tell me she expect a niece of hers to live with her -- for a time at least .
Her parent be both dead , the father have die recently .
Mrs. Barrett seem troubled about her .
She say that the girl have be well bring up and use to good thing than the Cove could give her , and she fear that she would be very discontented and unhappy .
I have forget all about it until I saw the girl today .
She certainly seem to be a very superior person ; she will find the Cove very lonely , I be sure .
It be not probable she will stay there long .
I must see what I can do for her , but her manner seem rather repellent , do n't you think ? ''
`` Hardly , '' respond Esterbrook curtly .
`` She seem surprisingly dignify and self-possessed , I fancy , for a girl in her position .
A princess could not have look and bow more royally .
There be not a shadow of embarrassment in her manner , in spite of the incongruity of her surroundings .
You have much well leave her alone , Marian .
In all probability she would resent any condescension on your part .
What wonderful , deep , lovely eye she have . ''
Again the sensitive colour flush Marian 's cheek a his voice lapse unconsciously into a dreamy , retrospective tone , and a slight restraint come over her manner , which do not depart .
Esterbrook go away at sunset .
Marian ask him to remain for the evening , but he plead some excuse .
`` I shall come tomorrow afternoon , '' he say , a he stoop to drop a careless good-bye kiss on her face .
Marian watch him wistfully a he ride away , with an unaccountable pain in her heart .
She felt more acutely than ever that there be depth in her lover 's nature that she be powerless to stir into responsive life .
Had any other that power ?
She think of the girl at the Cove , with her deep eye and wonderful face .
A chill of premonitory fear seize upon her .
`` I feel exactly a if Esterbrook have go away from me forever , '' she say slowly to herself , stoop to brush her cheek against a dew-cold , milk-white acacia bloom , `` and would never come back to me again .
If that could happen , I wonder what there would be leave to live for ? ''
* * * * * Esterbrook Elliott meant , or honestly think he mean , to go home when he leave Marian .
Nevertheless , when he reach the road branch off to the Cove he turn his horse down it with a flush on his dark cheek .
He realize that the motive of the action be disloyal to Marian and he felt ashamed of his weakness .
But the desire to see Magdalen Crawford once more and to look into the depth of her eye be strong than all else , and overpower every throb of duty and resistance .
He saw nothing of her when he reach the Cove .
He could think of no excuse for call at the Barrett cottage , so he ride slowly past the hamlet and along the shore .
The sun , red a a smouldering ember , be half bury in the silken violet rim of the sea ; the west be a vast lake of saffron and rise and ethereal green , through which float the curved shallop of a thin new moon , slowly deepen from lustreless white , through gleam silver , into burnish gold , and attend by one solitary , pearl-white star .
The vast concave of sky above be of violet , infinite and flawless .
Far out dusky amethystine islet cluster like gem on the shin breast of the bay .
The little pool of water along the low shore glow like mirror of polished jacinth .
The small , pine-fringed headland run out into the water , cut it lustrous blue expanse like purple wedge .
As Esterbrook turn one of them he saw Magdalen stand out on the point of the next , a short distance away .
Her back be towards him , and her splendid figure be outline darkly against the vivid sky .
Esterbrook sprang from his horse and leave the animal standing by itself while he walk swiftly out to her .
His heart throb suffocatingly .
He be conscious of no direct purpose save merely to see her .
She turn when he reach her with a slight start of surprise .
His footstep have make no sound on the tide-rippled sand .
For a few moment they face each other so , eye burn into eye with mute soul-probing and questioning .
The sun have disappear , leave a stain of fiery red to mark his grave ; the weird , radiant light be startlingly vivid and clear .
Little crisp puff and flake of foam scurry over the point like elfin thing .
The fresh wind , blow up the bay , toss the lustrous ring of hair about Magdalen 's pale face ; all the routed shadow of the hour have find refuge in her eye .
Not a trace of colour appear in her face under Esterbrook Elliott 's burning gaze .
But when he say `` Magdalen ! ''
a single , hot scorch of crimson flame up into her cheek protestingly .
She lift her hand with a splendid gesture , but no word pass her lip .
`` Magdalen , have you nothing to say to me ? ''
he ask , come closer to her with an implore passion in his face never see by Marian Lesley 's eye .
He reach out his hand , but she step back from his touch .
`` What should I have to say to you ? ''
`` Say that you be glad to see me . ''
`` I be not glad to see you .
You have no right to come here .
But I know you would come . ''
`` You know it ?
How ? ''
`` Your eye tell me so today .
I be not blind -- I can see further than those dull fisher folk .
Yes , I know you would come .
That be why I come here tonight -- so that you would find me alone and I could tell you that you be not to come again . ''
`` Why must you tell me that , Magdalen ? ''
`` Because , a I have tell you , you have no right to come . ''
`` But if I will not obey you ?
If I will come in defiance of your prohibition ? ''
She turn her steady luminous eye on his pale , set face .
`` You would stamp yourself a a madman , then , '' she say coldly .
`` I know that you be Miss Lesley 's promised husband .
Therefore , you be either false to her or insulting to me .
In either case the companionship of Magdalen Crawford be not what you must seek .
Go ! ''
She turn away from him with an imperious gesture of dismissal .
Esterbrook Elliott step forward and catch one firm , white wrist .
`` I shall not obey you , '' he say in a low , intense tone ; his fine eye burn into hers .
`` You may send me away , but I will come back , again and yet again until you have learn to welcome me .
Why should you meet me like an enemy ?
Why can we not be friend ? ''
The girl face him once more .
`` Because , '' she say proudly , `` I be not your equal .
There can be no friendship between u .
There ought not to be .
Magdalen Crawford , the fisherman 's niece , be no companion for you .
You will be foolish , as well a disloyal , if you ever try to see me again .
Go back to the beautiful , high-bred woman you love and forget me .
Perhaps you think I be talk strangely .
Perhaps you think me bold and unwomanly to speak so plainly to you , a stranger .
But there be some circumstance in life when plain-speaking be best .
I do not want to see you again .
Now , go back to your own world . ''
Esterbrook Elliott slowly turn from her and walk in silence back to the shore .
In the shadow of the point he stop to look back at her , stand out like some inspired prophetess against the fiery background of the sunset sky and silver-blue water .
The sky overhead be thick-sown with star ; the night breeze be blow up from it lair in distant , echo sea cave .
On his right the light of the Cove twinkle out through the dusk .
`` I feel like a coward and a traitor , '' he say slowly .
`` Good God , what be this madness that have come over me ?
Is this my boasted strength of manhood ? ''
A moment later the hoof beat of his horse die away up the shore .
Magdalen Crawford linger on the point until the last dull red fade out into the violet gloom of the June sea dusk , than which nothing can be rarer or diviner , and listen to the moan and murmur of the sea far out over the bay with sorrowful eye and sternly set lip .
The next day , when the afternoon sun hung hot and heavy over the water , Esterbrook Elliott come again to the Cove .
He find it desert .
A rumour of mackerel have come , and every boat have sail out in the rose-red dawn to the fishing ground .
But down on a strip of sparkle yellow sand he saw Magdalen Crawford standing , her hand on the rope that fasten a small white dory to the fragment of a half-embedded wreck .
She be watch a huddle of gull cluster on the tip of a narrow , sandy spit run out to the left .
She turn at the sound of his hurried foot-fall behind her .
Her face pal slightly , and into the depth of her eye leap a passionate , mesmeric glow that fade as quickly a it come .
`` You see I have come back in spite of your command , Magdalen . ''
`` I do see it , '' she answer in a gravely troubled voice .
`` You be a madman who refuse to be warn . ''
`` Where be you go , Magdalen ? ''
She have loosen the rope from the wreck .
`` I be go to row over to Chapel Point for salt .
They think the boat will come in tonight load with mackerel -- look at them away out there by the score -- and salt will be need . ''
`` Can you row so far alone ? ''
`` Easily .
I learn to row long ago -- for a pastime then .
Since come here I find it of great service to me . ''
She step lightly into the tiny shallop and pick up an oar .
The brilliant sunshine stream about her , burnish the rich tint of her hair into ruddy gold .
She balance herself to the swaying of the dory with the grace of a sea bird .
The man look at her felt his brain reel .
`` Good-bye , Mr. Elliott . ''
For answer he spring into the dory and , snatch an oar , push against the old wreck with such energy that the dory shoot out from the shore like a foam bell .
His sudden spring have set it rock violently .
Magdalen almost lose her footing and catch blindly at his arm .
As her finger close on his wrist a thrill a of fire shot through his every vein .
`` Why have you do this , Mr. Elliott ?
You must go back . ''
`` But I will not , '' he say masterfully , look straight into her eye with an imperiousness that sit well upon him .
`` I be go to row you over to Chapel Point .
I have the oar -- I will be master this once , at least . ''
For an instant her eye flash defiant protest , then droop before his .
A sudden , hot blush crimson her pale face .
His will have master hers ; the girl tremble from head to foot , and the proud , sensitive , mouth quiver .
Into the face of the man watch her breathlessly flash a triumphant , passionate joy .
He put out his hand and gently push her down into the seat .
Sitting opposite , he take up the oar and pull out over the sheet of sparkle blue water , through which at first the bottom of white sand glimmer wavily but afterwards deepen to translucent , dim depth of greenness .
His heart throb tumultuously .
Once the thought of Marian drift across his mind like a chill breath of wind , but it be forget when his eye meet Magdalen 's .
`` Tell me about yourself , Magdalen , '' he say at last , break the tremulous , charm , sparkle silence .
`` There be nothing to tell , '' she answer with characteristic straightforwardness .
`` My life have be a very uneventful one .
I have never be rich , or very well educate , but -- it use to be different from now .
I have some chance before -- before Father die . ''
`` You must have find it very lonely and strange when you come here first . ''
`` Yes .
At first I think I should die -- but I do not mind it now .
I have make friend with the sea ; it have teach me a great deal .
There be a kind of inspiration in the sea .
When one listen to it never-ceasing murmur afar out there , always sound at midnight and midday , one 's soul go out to meet Eternity .
Sometimes it give me so much pleasure that it be almost pain . ''
She stop abruptly .
`` I do n't know why I be talk to you like this . ''
`` You be a strange girl , Magdalen .
Have you no other companion than the sea ? ''
`` No .
Why should I wish to have ?
I shall not be here long . ''
Elliott 's face contract with a spasm of pain .
`` You be not go away , Magdalen ? ''
`` Yes -- in the fall .
I have my own living to earn , you know .
I be very poor .
Uncle and Aunt be very kind , but I can not consent to burden them any long than I can help . ''
A sigh that be almost a moan break from Esterbrook Elliott 's lip .
`` You must not go away , Magdalen .
You must stay here -- with me ! ''
`` You forget yourself , '' she say proudly .
`` How dare you speak to me so ?
Have you forget Miss Lesley ?
Or be you a traitor to u both ? ''
Esterbrook make no answer .
He bow his pale , miserable face before her , self-condemned .
The breast of the bay sparkle with it countless gem like the breast of a fair woman .
The shore be purple and amethystine in the distance .
Far out , bluish , phantom-like sail cluster against the pallid horizon .
The dory dance like a feather over the ripple .
They be close under the shadow of Chapel Point .
* * * * * Marian Lesley wait in vain for her lover that afternoon .
When he come at last in the odorous dusk of the June night she meet him on the acacia-shadowed verandah with cold sweetness .
Perhaps some subtle woman-instinct whisper to her where and how he have spend the afternoon , for she offer him no kiss , nor do she ask him why he have fail to come sooner .
His eye linger on her in the dim light , take in every detail of her sweet womanly refinement and loveliness , and with difficulty he choke back a groan .
Again he ask himself what madness have come over him , and again for an answer rise up the vision of Magdalen Crawford 's face a he have see it that day , crimson beneath his gaze .
It be late when he leave .
Marian watch him out of sight , stand under the acacia .
She shiver a with a sudden chill .
`` I feel a I think Vashti must have felt , '' she murmur aloud , `` when , discrowned and unqueened , she creep out of the gate of Shushan to hide her broken heart .
I wonder if Esther have already usurp my sceptre .
Has that girl at the Cove , with her pale , priestess-like face and mysterious eye , steal his heart from me ?
Perhaps not , for it may never have be mine .
I know that Esterbrook Elliott will be true to the letter of his vow to me , no matter what it may cost him .
But I want no pallid shadow of the love that belong to another .
The hour of abdication be at hand , I fear .
And what will be leave for throneless Vashti then ? ''
Esterbrook Elliott , walk home through the mocking calm of the night , fight a hard battle with himself .
He be face to face with the truth at last -- the bitter knowledge that he have never love Marian Lesley , save with a fond , brotherly affection , and that he do love Magdalen Crawford with a passion that threaten to sweep before it every vestige of his honour and loyalty .
He have see her but three time -- and his throb heart lay in the hollow of her cold white hand .
He shut his eye and groan .
What madness .
What unutterable folly !
He be not free -- he be bind to another by every cord of honour and self-respect .
And , even be he free , Magdalen Crawford would be no fit wife for him -- in the eye of the world , at least .
A girl from the Cove -- a girl with little education and no social standing -- aye !
but he love her .
He groan again and again in his misery .
Afar down the slope the bay water lay like an inky strip and the distant , murmurous plaint of the sea come out of the stillness of the night ; the light at the Cove glimmer faintly .
In the week that follow he go to the Cove every day .
Sometimes he do not see Magdalen ; at other time he do .
But at the end of the week he have conquer in the bitter , heart-crushing struggle with himself .
If he have weakly give way to the first mad sweep of a new passion , the strength of his manhood reassert itself at last .
Faltering and waver be over , though there be passionate pain in his voice when he say at last , `` I be not come back again , Magdalen . ''
They be stand in the shadow of the pine-fringed point that run out to the left of the Cove .
They have be walk together along the shore , watch the splendour of the sea sunset that flame and glow in the west , where there be a sea of mackerel cloud , crimson and amber tint , with long , ribbon-like strip of apple-green sky between .
They have walk in silence , hand in hand , a child might have do , yet with the stir and throb of a mighty passion seethe in their heart .
Magdalen turn a Esterbrook speak , and look at him in a long silence .
The bay stretch out before them , trance and shimmer ; a few star shine down through the gloom of dusk .
Right across the translucent green and rose and blue of the west hang a dark , unsightly cloud , like the blurred outline of a monstrous bat .
In the dim , reflect light the girl 's mournful face take on a weird , unearthly beauty .
She turn her eye from Esterbrook Elliott 's set white face to the radiant gloom of the sea .
`` That be best , '' she answer at last , slowly .
`` Best -- yes !
Better that we have never meet !
I love you -- you know it -- word be idle between u .
I never love before -- I think I do .
I make a mistake and I must pay the penalty of that mistake .
You understand me ? ''
`` I understand , '' she answer simply .
`` I do not excuse myself -- I have be weak and cowardly and disloyal .
But I have conquer myself -- I will be true to the woman to whom I be pledge .
You and I must not meet again .
I will crush this madness to death .
I think I have be delirious ever since that day I saw you first , Magdalen .
My brain be clear now .
I see my duty and I mean to do it at any cost .
I dare not trust myself to say more .
Magdalen , I have much for which to ask your forgiveness . ''
`` There be nothing to forgive , '' she say steadily .
`` I have be as much to blame a you .
If I have be as resolute a I ought to have be -- if I have send you away the second time a I do the first -- this would not have come to pass .
I have be weak too , and I deserve to atone for my weakness by suffer .
There be only one path open to u .
Esterbrook , good-bye . ''
Her voice quiver with an uncontrollable spasm of pain , but the misty , mournful eye do not swerve from his .
The man step forward and catch her in his arm .
`` Magdalen , good-bye , my darling .
Kiss me once -- only once -- before I go . ''
She loosen his arm and step back proudly .
`` No !
No man kiss my lip unless he be to be my husband .
Good-bye , dear . ''
He bow his head silently and go away , look back not once , else he might have see her kneel on the damp sand weep noiselessly and passionately .
* * * * * Marian Lesley look at his pale , determine face the next evening and read it like an open book .
She have grow paler herself ; there be purple shadow under the sweet violet eye that might have hint of her own sleepless night .
She greet him calmly , hold out a steady , white hand of welcome .
She saw the trace of the struggle through which he have pass and know that he have come off victor .
The knowledge make her task a little harder .
It would have be easy to let slip the strain cable than to cast it from her when it lay unresistingly in her hand .
For an instant her heart thrill with an unutterably sweet hope .
Might he not forget in time ?
Need she snap in twain the weaken bond between them after all ?
Perhaps she might win back her lost sceptre , yet if -- Womanly pride throttle the struggle hope .
No divided allegiance , no hollow semblance of queenship for her !
Her opportunity come when Esterbrook ask with grave earnestness if their marriage might not be hasten a little -- could he not have his bride in August ?
For a fleeting second Marian close her eye and the slender hand , lie among the lace in her lap , clasp each other convulsively .
Then she say quietly , `` Sometimes I have think , Esterbrook , that it might be good -- if we be never marry at all . ''
Esterbrook turn a startled face upon her .
`` Not marry at all !
Marian , what do you mean ? ''
`` Just what I say .
I do not think we be as well suit to each other after all a we have fancy .
We have love each other a brother and sister might -- that be all .
I think it will be best to be brother and sister forever -- nothing more . ''
Esterbrook sprang to his foot .
`` Marian , do you know what you be say ?
You surely can not have hear -- no one could have tell you -- '' `` I have hear nothing , '' she interrupt hurriedly .
`` No one have tell me anything .
I have only say what I have be think of late .
I be sure we have make a mistake .
It be not too late to remedy it .
You will not refuse my request , Esterbrook ?
You will set me free ? ''
`` Good heaven , Marian ! ''
he say hoarsely .
`` I can not realize that you be in earnest .
Have you cease to care for me ? ''
The rigidly locked hand be clasp a little tighter .
`` No -- I shall always care for you a my friend if you will let me .
But I know we could not make each other happy -- the time for that have go by .
I would never be satisfy , nor would you .
Esterbrook , will you release me from a promise which have become an irksome fetter ? ''
He look down on her upturned face mistily .
A great joy be surge up in his heart -- yet it be mingle with great regret .
He know -- none well -- what be pass out of his life , what he be lose when he lose that pure , womanly nature .
`` If you really mean this , Marian , '' he say slowly , `` if you really have come to feel that your true love be not and never can be mine -- that I can not make you happy -- then there be nothing for me to do but to grant your request .
You be free . ''
`` Thank you , dear , '' she say gently , a she stand up .
She slip his ring from her finger and hold it out to him .
He take it mechanically .
He still felt dazed and unreal .
Marian hold out her hand .
`` Good-night , Esterbrook , '' she say , a little wearily .
`` I feel tired .
I be glad you see it all in the same light a I do . ''
`` Marian , '' he say earnestly , clasp the outstretched hand , `` be you sure that you will be happy -- be you sure that you be do a wise thing ? ''
`` Quite sure , '' she answer , with a faint smile .
`` I be not act rashly .
I have think it all over carefully .
Things be much well so , dear .
We will always be friend .
Your joy and sorrow will be to me a my own .
When another love come to bless your life , Esterbrook , I will be glad .
And now , good-night .
I want to be alone now . ''
At the doorway he turn to look back at her , stand in all her sweet stateliness in the twilight duskness , and the keen realization of all he have lose make him bow his head with a quick pang of regret .
Then he go out into the darkness of the summer night .
An hour later he stand alone on the little point where he have part with Magdalen the night before .
A restless night wind be moan through the pine that fringe the bank behind him ; the moon shine down radiantly , turn the calm expanse of the bay into a milk-white sheen .
He take Marian 's ring from his pocket and kiss it reverently .
Then he throw it from him far out over the water .
For a second the diamond flash in the moonlight ; then , with a tiny splash , it fell among the ripple .
Esterbrook turn his face to the Cove , lie dark and silent in the curve between the crescent headlands .
A solitary light glimmer from the low eaves of the Barrett cottage .
Tomorrow , be his unspoken thought , I will be free ; to go back to Magdalen .
An Invitation Given on Impulse It be a gloomy Saturday morning .
The tree in the Oaklawn ground be toss wildly in the gust of wind , and sodden brown leaf be blow up against the window of the library , where a score of girl be wait for the principal to bring the mail in .
The big room echoed with the pleasant sound of girlish voice and low laughter , for in a fortnight school would close for the holiday , and they be all talk about their plan and anticipation .
Only Ruth Mannering be , a usual , sit by herself near one of the window , look out on the misty lawn .
She be a pale , slender girl , with a sad face , and be dress in rather shabby black .
She have no special friend at Oaklawn , and the other girl do not know much about her .
If they have think about it at all , they would probably have decide that they do not like her ; but for the most part they simply overlook her .
This be not altogether their fault .
Ruth be poor and apparently friendless , but it be not her poverty that be against her .
Lou Scott , who be `` as poor a a church mouse , '' to quote her own frank admission , be the most popular girl in the seminary , the boon companion of the rich girl , and in demand with everybody .
But Lou be jolly and frank and offhanded , while Ruth be painfully shy and reserve , and that be the secret of the whole matter .
There be `` no fun in her , '' the girl say , and so it come about that she be leave out of their social life , and be almost a solitary at Oaklawn a if she have be the only girl there .
She be there for the special purpose of study music , and expect to earn her own living by teach it when she leave .
She believe that the girl look down on her on this account ; this be unjust , of course , but Ruth have no idea how much her own coldness and reserve have work against her .
Across the room Carol Golden be , a usual , the centre of an animated group ; Golden Carol a her particular friend sometimes call her , partly because of her beautiful voice , and partly because of her wonderful fleece of golden hair .
Carol be one of the seminary pet , and seem to Ruth Mannering to have everything that she have not .
Presently the mail be bring in , and there be a rush to the table , follow by exclamation of satisfaction or disappointment .
In a few minute the room be almost desert .
Only two girl remain : Carol Golden , who have drop into a big chair to read her many letter ; and Ruth Mannering , who have not receive any and have go silently back to her part of the window .
Presently Carol give a little cry of delight .
Her mother have write that she might invite any friend she wish home with her to spend the holiday .
Carol have ask for this permission , and now that it have come be ready to dance for joy .
As to whom she would ask , there could be only one answer to that .
Of course it must be her particular friend , Maud Russell , who be the clever and pretty girl at Oaklawn , at least so her admirer say .
She be undoubtedly the rich , and be the acknowledged `` leader . ''
The girl affectionately call her `` Princess , '' and Carol adore her with that romantic affection that be find only among school girl .
She know , too , that Maud would surely accept her invitation because she do not intend to go home .
Her parent be travel in Europe , and she expect to spend her holiday with some cousin , who be almost stranger to her .
Carol be so much please that she felt a if she must talk to somebody , so she turn to Ruth .
`` Is n't it delightful to think that we 'll all be go home in a fortnight ? ''
`` Yes , very -- for those that have home to go to , '' say Ruth drearily .
Carol felt a quick pang of pity and self-reproach .
`` Have n't you ? ''
she ask .
Ruth shake her head .
In spite of herself , the kindness of Carol 's tone bring the tear to her eye .
`` My mother die a year ago , '' she say in a trembling voice , `` and since then I have have no real home .
We be quite alone in the world , Mother and I , and now I have nobody . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry for you , '' cry Carol impulsively .
She lean forward and take Ruth 's hand in a gentle way .
`` And do you mean to say that you 'll have to stay here all through the holiday ?
Why , it will be horrid . ''
`` Oh , I shall not mind it much , '' say Ruth quickly , `` with study and practice most of the time .
Only now , when everyone be talk about it , it make me wish that I have some place to go . ''
Carol drop Ruth 's hand suddenly in the shock of a sudden idea that dart into her mind .
A stray girl pass through the hall call out , `` Ruth , Miss Siviter wish to see you about something in Room C. '' Ruth get up quickly .
She be glad to get away , for it seem to her that in another minute she would break down altogether .
Carol Golden hardly notice her departure .
She gather up her letter and go abstractedly to her room , unheeding a gay call for `` Golden Carol '' from a group of girl in the corridor .
Maud Russell be not in and Carol be glad .
She want to be alone and fight down that sudden idea .
`` It be ridiculous to think of it , '' she say aloud , with a petulance very unusual in Golden Carol , whose disposition be as sunny a her look .
`` Why , I simply can not .
I have always be long to ask Maud to visit me , and now that the chance have come I be not go to throw it away .
I be very sorry for Ruth , of course .
It must be dreadful to be all alone like that .
But it be n't my fault .
And she be so fearfully quiet and dowdy -- what would they all think of her at home ?
Frank and Jack would make such fun of her .
I shall ask Maud just as soon a she come in . ''
Maud do come in presently , but Carol do not give her the invitation .
Instead , she be almost snappish to her idol , and the Princess soon go out again in something of a huff .
`` Oh , dear , '' cry Carol , `` now I 've offend her .
What have get into me ?
What a disagreeable thing a conscience be , although I 'm sure I do n't know why mine should be prod me so !
I do n't want to invite Ruth Mannering home with me for the holiday , but I feel exactly a if I should not have a minute 's peace of mind all the time if I do n't .
Mother would think it all right , of course .
She would not mind if Ruth dress in calico and never say anything but yes and no .
But how the boy would laugh !
I simply wo n't do it , conscience or no conscience . ''
In view of this decision it be rather strange that the next morning , Carol Golden go down to Ruth Mannering 's lonely little room on Corridor Two and say , `` Ruth , will you go home with me for the holiday ?
Mother write me to invite anyone I wish to .
Do n't say you ca n't come , dear , because you must . ''
Carol never , as long a she live , forget Ruth 's face at that moment .
`` It be absolutely transfigure , '' she say afterwards .
`` I never saw anyone look so happy in my life . ''
* * * * * A fortnight later unwonted silence reign at Oaklawn .
The girl be scatter far and wide , and Ruth Mannering and Carol Golden be at the latter 's home .
Carol be a very much surprise girl .
Under the influence of kindness and pleasure Ruth seem transform into a different person .
Her shyness and reserve melt away in the sunny atmosphere of the Golden home .
Mrs. Golden take her into her motherly heart at once ; and a for Frank and Jack , whose verdict Carol have so dread , they vote Ruth `` splendid . ''
She certainly get along very well with them ; and if she do not make the social sensation that pretty Maud Russell might have make , the Goldens all like her and Carol be content .
`` Just four day more , '' sigh Carol one afternoon , `` and then we must go back to Oaklawn .
Can you realize it , Ruth ? ''
Ruth look up from her book with a smile .
Even in appearance she have change .
There be a faint pink in her cheek and a merry light in her eye .
`` I shall not be sorry to go back to work , '' she say .
`` I feel just like it because I have have so pleasant a time here that it have hearten me up for next term .
I think it will be very different from last .
I begin to see that I keep to myself too much and brood over fancied slight . ''
`` And then you be to room with me since Maud be not come back , '' say Carol .
`` What fun we shall have .
Did you ever toast marshmallow over the gas ?
Why , I declare , there be Mr . Swift come up the walk .
Look , Ruth !
He be the rich man in Westleigh . ''
Ruth peep out of the window over Carol 's shoulder .
`` He remind me of somebody , '' she say absently , `` but I ca n't think who it be .
Of course , I have never see him before .
What a good face he have ! ''
`` He be as good a he look , '' say Carol , enthusiastically .
`` Next to Father , Mr . Swift be the nice man in the world .
I have always be quite a pet of his .
His wife be dead , and so be his only daughter .
She be a lovely girl and die only two year ago .
It nearly break Mr . Swift 's heart .
And he have live alone ever since in that great big house up at the head of Warner Street , the one you admire so , Ruth , the last time we be uptown .
There 's the bell for the second time , Mary ca n't have hear it .
I 'll go myself . ''
As Carol show the caller into the room , Ruth rise to leave and thus come face to face with him .
Mr . Swift start perceptibly .
`` Mr . Swift , this be my school friend , Miss Mannering , '' say Carol .
Mr . Swift seem strangely agitate a he take Ruth 's timidly offer hand .
`` My dear young lady , '' he say hurriedly , `` I be go to ask you what may seem a very strange question .
What be your mother 's name ? ''
`` Agnes Hastings , '' answer Ruth in surprise .
And then Carol really think that Mr . Swift have go crazy , for he draw Ruth into his arm and kiss her .
`` I know it , '' he say .
`` I be sure you be Agnes ' daughter , for you be the living image of what she be when I last saw her .
Child , you do n't know me , but I be your Uncle Robert .
Your mother be my half-sister . ''
`` Oh , Mr . Swift ! ''
cry Carol , and then she run for her mother .
Ruth turn pale and drop into a chair , and Mr . Swift sit down beside her .
`` To think that I have find you at last , child .
How puzzle you look .
Did your mother never speak of me ?
How be she ?
Where be she ? ''
`` Mother die last year , '' say Ruth .
`` Poor Agnes !
And I never know !
Do n't cry , little girl .
I want you to tell me all about it .
She be much young than I be , and when our mother die my stepfather go away and take her with him .
I remain with my father 's people and eventually lose all trace of my sister .
I be a poor boy then , but thing have look up with me and I have often try to find her . ''
By this time Carol have return with her father and mother , and there be a scene -- laughing , cry , explain -- and I do n't really know which of the two girl be the more excited , Carol or Ruth .
As for Mr . Swift , he be overjoy to find his niece and want to carry her off with him then and there , but Mrs. Golden insist on her finish her visit .
When the question of return to Oaklawn come up , Mr . Swift would not hear of it at first , but finally yield to Carol 's entreaty and Ruth 's own desire .
`` I shall graduate next year , Uncle , and then I can come back to you for good . ''
That evening when Ruth be alone in her room , try to collect her thought and realize that the home and love that she have so crave be really to be hers at last , Golden Carol be with her mother in the room below , talk it all over .
`` Just think , Mother , if I have not ask Ruth to come here , this would not have happen .
And I do n't want to , I want to ask Maud so much , and I be dreadfully disappointed when I could n't -- for I really could n't .
I could not help remember the look in Ruth 's eye when she say that she have no home to go to , and so I ask her instead of Maud .
How dreadful it would have be if I have n't . ''
Detected by the Camera One summer I be attack by the craze for amateur photography .
It become chronic afterwards , and I and my camera have never since be part .
We have have some odd adventure together , and one of the most novel of our experience be that in which we play the part of chief witness against Ned Brooke .
I may say that my name be Amy Clarke , and that I believe I be consider the best amateur photographer in our part of the country .
That be all I need tell you about myself .
Mr. Carroll have ask me to photograph his place for him when the apple orchard be in bloom .
He have a picturesque old-fashioned country house behind a lawn of the most delightful old tree and flank on each side by the orchard .
So I go one June afternoon , with all my accoutrement , prepare to `` take '' the Carroll establishment in my best style .
Mr. Carroll be away but be expect home soon , so we wait for him , a all the family wish to be photograph under the big maple at the front door .
I prowl around among the shrubbery at the low end of the lawn and , after a great deal of squint from various angle , I at last fixed upon the spot from which I think the best view of the house might be obtain .
Then Gertie and Lilian Carroll and I get into the hammock and swung at our leisure , enjoy the cool breeze sweep through the maple .
Ned Brooke be hang around a usual , watch u furtively .
Ned be one of the hopeful member of a family that live in a tumble-down shanty just across the road from the Carrolls .
They be wretchedly poor , and old Brooke , a he be call , and Ned be employ a good deal by Mr. Carroll -- more out of charity than anything else , I fancy .
The Brookes have a rather shady reputation .
They be notoriously lazy , and it be suspect that their line of distinction between their own and their neighbour ' good be not very clearly drawn .
Many people censure Mr. Carroll for encourage them at all , but he be too kind-hearted to let them suffer actual want and , a a consequence , one or the other of them be always dodge about his place .
Ned be a lank , tow-headed youth of about fourteen , with shifty , twinkle eye that could never look you straight in the face .
His appearance be anything but prepossessing , and I always felt , when I look at him , that if anyone want to do a piece of shady work by proxy , Ned Brooke would be the very lad for the business .
Mr. Carroll come at last , and we all go down to meet him at the gate .
Ned Brooke also come shuffle along to take the horse , and Mr. Carroll toss the rein to him and at the same time hand a pocketbook to his wife .
`` Just as well to be careful where you put that , '' he say laughingly .
`` There 's a sum in it not to be pick up on every gooseberry bush .
Gilman Harris pay me this morning for that bit of woodland I sell him last fall -- five hundred dollar .
I promise that you and the girl should have it to get a new piano , so there it be for you . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Mrs. Carroll delightedly .
`` However , you 'd better put it back in your pocket till we go in .
Amy be in a hurry . ''
Mr. Carroll take back the pocketbook and drop it carelessly into the inside pocket of the light overcoat that he wear .
I happen to glance at Ned Brooke just then , and I could not help notice the sudden crafty , eager expression that flash over his face .
He eye the pocketbook in Mr. Carroll 's hand furtively , after which he go off with the horse in a great hurry .
The girl be exclaim and thank their father , and nobody notice Ned Brooke 's behaviour but myself , and it soon pass out of my mind .
`` Come to take the place , be you , Amy ? ''
say Mr. Carroll .
`` Well , everything be ready , I think .
I suppose we 'd better proceed .
Where shall we stand ?
You have good group u a you think best . ''
Whereupon I proceed to arrange them in due order under the maple .
Mrs. Carroll sit in a chair , while her husband stand behind her .
Gertie stand on the step with a basket of flower in her hand , and Lilian be at one side .
The two little boy , Teddy and Jack , climb up into the maple , and little Dora , the dimpled six-year-old , stand gravely in the foreground with an enormous grey cat hug in her chubby arm .
It be a pretty group in a pretty setting , and I thrill with professional pride a I step back for a final , know squint at it all .
Then I go to my camera , slip in the plate , give them due warning and take off the cap .
I take two plate to make sure and then the thing be over , but a I have another plate leave I think I might as well take a view of the house by itself , so I carry my camera to a new place and have just get everything ready to lift the cap when Mr. Carroll come down and say : `` If you girls want to see something pretty , come to the back field with me .
That will wait till you come back , wo n't it , Amy ? ''
So we all betook ourselves to the back field , a short distance away , where Mr. Carroll proudly display two of the pretty little Jersey cow I have ever see .
We return to the house by way of the back lane and , a we come in sight of the main road , my brother Cecil drive up and say that if I be ready , I have well go home with him and save myself a hot , dusty walk .
The Carrolls all go down to the fence to speak to Cecil , but I dash hurriedly down through the orchard , leap over the fence into the lawn and run to the somewhat remote corner where I have leave my camera .
I be in a desperate hurry , for I know Cecil 's horse do not like to be keep wait , so I never even glance at the house , but snatch off the cap , count two and replace it .
Then I take out my plate , put it in the holder and gather up my trap .
I suppose I be about five minute at it all and I have my back to the house the whole time , and when I lay all my thing ready and emerge from my retreat , there be nobody to be see about the place .
As I hurry up through the lawn , I notice Ned Brooke walk at a smart pace down the lane , but the fact do not make any particular impression on me at the time , and be not recall until afterwards .
Cecil be wait for me , so I get in the buggy and we drive off .
On arrive home I shut myself up in my dark room and proceed to develop the first two negative of the Carroll housestead .
They be both excellent , the first one be a trifle the good , so that I decide to finish from it .
I intend also to develop the third , but just a I finish the others , a half-dozen city cousin swoop down upon u and I have to put away my paraphernalia , emerge from my dark retreat and fly around to entertain them .
The next day Cecil come in and say : `` Did you hear , Amy , that Mr. Carroll have lose a pocketbook with five hundred dollar in it ? ''
`` No ! ''
I exclaim .
`` How ?
When ?
Where ? ''
`` Do n't overwhelm a fellow .
I can answer only one question -- last night .
As to the ` how , ' they do n't know , and a to the ` where ' -- well , if they know that , there might be some hope of find it .
The girl be in a bad way .
The money be to get them their longed-for piano , it seem , and now it 's go . ''
`` But how do it happen , Cecil ? ''
`` Well , Mr. Carroll say that Mrs. Carroll hand the pocketbook back to him at the gate yesterday , and he drop it in the inside pocket of his over-coat -- '' `` I saw him do it , '' I cry .
`` Yes , and then , before he go to be photograph , he hang his coat up in the hall .
It hang there until the evening , and nobody seem to have think about the money , each suppose that someone else have put it carefully away .
After tea Mr. Carroll put on the coat and go to see somebody over at Netherby .
He say the thought of the pocketbook never cross his mind ; he have forget all about put it in that coat pocket .
He come home across the field about eleven o'clock and find that the cow have break into the clover hay , and he have a great chase before he get them out .
When he go in , just a he enter the door , the remembrance of the money flash over him .
He felt in his pocket , but there be no pocketbook there ; he ask his wife if she have take it out .
She have not , and nobody else have .
There be a hole in the pocket , but Mr. Carroll say it be too small for the pocketbook to have work through .
However , it must have do so -- unless someone take it out of his pocket at Netherby , and that be not possible , because he never have his coat off , and it be in an inside pocket .
It 's not likely that they will ever see it again .
Someone may pick it up , of course , but the chance be slim .
Mr. Carroll do n't know his exact path across the field , and if he lose it while he be after the cow , it 's a bluer show still .
They 've be search all day , of course .
The girl be awfully disappointed . ''
A sudden recollection come to me of Ned Brooke 's face a I have see it the day before at the gate , couple with the remembrance of see him walk down the lane at a quick pace , so unlike his usual shambling gait , while I run through the lawn .
`` How do they know it be lose ? ''
I say .
`` Perhaps it be steal before Mr. Carroll go to Netherby . ''
`` They think not , '' say Cecil .
`` Who would have steal it ? ''
`` Ned Brooke .
I saw him hang around .
And you never saw such a look a come over his face when he hear Mr. Carroll say there be five hundred dollar in that pocketbook . ''
`` Well , I do suggest to them that Ned might know something about it , for I remember have see him go down the lane while I be wait for you , but they wo n't hear of such a thing .
The Brookes be kind of protgs of theirs , you know , and they wo n't believe anything bad of them .
If Ned do take it , however , there 's not a shadow of evidence against him . ''
`` No , I suppose not , '' I answer thoughtfully , `` but the more I think it over , the more I 'm convinced that he take it .
You know , we all go to the back field to look at the Jerseys , and all that time the coat be hang there in the hall , and not a soul in the house .
And it be just after we come back that I saw Ned scuttle down the lane so fast . ''
I mention my suspicion to the Carrolls a few day afterwards , when I go down with the photograph , and find that they have discover no trace of the lose pocketbook .
But they seem positively angry when I hint that Ned Brooke might know more about it whereabouts than anyone else .
They declare that they would as soon think of suspect one of themselves a Ned , and altogether they seem so offend at my suggestion that I hold my peace and do n't irritate them by any more supposition .
Afterwards , in the excitement of our cousin ' visit , the matter pass out of my mind completely .
They stay two week , and I be so busy the whole time that I never get a chance to develop that third plate and , in fact , I have forget all about it .
One morning soon after they go away , I remember the plate and decide to go and develop it .
Cecil go with me , and we shut ourselves up in our den , light our ruby lantern and begin operation .
I do not expect much of the plate , because it have be expose and handle carelessly , and I think that it might prove to be underexposed or light-struck .
So I leave Cecil to develop it while I prepare the fix bath .
Cecil be whistle away when suddenly he give a tremendous `` whew '' of astonishment and sprang to his foot .
`` Amy , Amy , look here ! ''
he cry .
I rush to his side and look at the plate a he hold it up in the rosy light .
It be a splendid one , and the Carroll house come out clear , with the front door and the step in full view .
And there , just in the act of step from the threshold , be the figure of a boy with an old straw hat on his head and -- in his hand -- the pocketbook !
He be stand with his head turn towards the corner of the house a if listening , with one hand hold his ragged coat open and the other poise in mid-air with the pocketbook , a if he be just go to put it in his inside pocket .
The whole scene be as clear a noonday , and nobody with eye in his head could have fail to recognize Ned Brooke .
`` Goodness ! ''
I gasp .
`` In with it -- quick ! ''
And we douse the thing into the fix bath and then sit down breathlessly and look at each other .
`` I say , Amy , '' say Cecil , `` what a sell this will be on the Carrolls !
Ned Brooke could n't do such a thing -- oh , no !
The poor injured boy at whom everyone have such an unlawful pick !
I wonder if this will convince them . ''
`` Do you think they can get it all back ? ''
I ask .
`` It 's not likely he would have dare to use any of it yet . ''
`` I do n't know .
We 'll have a try , anyhow .
How long before this plate will be dry enough to carry down to the Carrolls a circumstantial evidence ? ''
`` Three hour or thereabouts , '' I answer , `` but perhaps sooner .
I 'll take two print off when it be ready .
I wonder what the Carrolls will say . ''
`` It 's a piece of pure luck that the plate should have turn out so well after the slap-dash way in which it be take and use .
I say , Amy , be n't this quite an adventure ? ''
At last the plate be dry , and I print two proof .
We wrap them up carefully and march down to Mr. Carroll 's .
You never saw people so overcome with astonishment a the Carrolls be when Cecil , with the air of a statesman unfold the evidence of some dreadful conspiracy against the peace and welfare of the nation , produce the plate and the proof , and hold them out before them .
Mr. Carroll and Cecil take the proof and go over to the Brooke shanty .
They find only Ned and his mother at home .
At first Ned , when tax with his guilt , deny it , but when Mr. Carroll confront him with the proof , he break down in a spasm of terror and confess all .
His mother produce the pocketbook and the money -- they have not dare to spend a single cent of it -- and Mr. Carroll go home in triumph .
Perhaps Ned Brooke ought not to have be let off so easily a he be , but his mother cry and plead , and Mr. Carroll be too kind-hearted to resist .
So he do not punish them at all , save by utterly discard the whole family and their concern .
The place get too hot for them after the story come out , and in less than a month all move away -- much to the benefit of Mapleton .
In Spite of Myself My trunk be pack and I have arrange with my senior partner -- I be the junior member of a law firm -- for a month 's vacation .
Aunt Lucy have write that her husband have go on a sea trip and she wish me to superintend the business of his farm and mill in his absence , if I could arrange to do so .
She add that `` Gussie '' think it be a pity to trouble me , and want to do the oversee herself , but that she -- Aunt Lucy -- prefer to have a man at the head of affair .
I have never see my step-cousin , Augusta Ashley , but I know , from Aunt Lucy 's remark concern her , pretty much what sort of person she be -- just the precise kind I dislike immeasurably .
I have no idea what her age be , but doubtless she be over thirty , tall , determine , aggressive , with a `` faculty '' for managing , a sharp , probe nose , and a y-formation between her eyebrow .
I know the type , and I be assure that the period of sojourn with my respected aunt would be one of strife between Miss Ashley and myself .
I write to Aunt Lucy to expect me , make all necessary arrangement , and go to bid Nellie goodbye .
I have make up my mind to marry Nellie .
I have never openly avow myself her suitor , but we be cousin , and have grow up together , so that I know her well enough to be sure of my ground .
I like her so well that it be easy to persuade myself that I be in love with her .
She more nearly fulfil the requirement of my ideal wife than anyone I know .
She be pleasant to look upon , without be distractingly pretty ; small and fair and womanly .
She dress nicely , sang and play agreeably , dance well , and have a cheerful , affectionate disposition .
She be not alarmingly clever , have no `` hobby , '' and look up to me a heir to all the wisdom of the age -- what man do not like to be think clever and brilliant ?
I have no formidable rival , and our family be anxious for the match .
I consider myself a lucky fellow .
I felt that I would be very lonely without Nellie when I be away , and she admit frankly that she would miss me awfully .
She look so sweet that I be on the point of ask her then and there to marry me .
Well , fate interfere in the guise of a small brother , so I say goodbye and leave , mentally compare her to my idea of Miss Augusta Ashley , much to the latter 's disadvantage .
When I step from the train at a sleepy country station next day I be promptly waylay by a black-eyed urchin who inform me that Mrs. Ashley have send him with an express wagon for my luggage , and that `` Miss Gussie '' be wait with the carriage at the store , point down to a small building before whose door a girl be try to soothe her frightened horse .
As I go down the slope towards her I notice she be tall -- quite too tall for my taste .
I dislike woman who can look into my eye on a level -- but I have to admit that her form be remarkably symmetrical and graceful .
She put out her hand -- it be ungloved and large , but white and firm , with a cool , pleasant touch -- and say , with a composure akin to indifference , `` Mr. Carslake , I presume .
Mother could not come to meet you , so she send me .
Will you be kind enough to hold my horse for a few minute ?
I want to get something in the store . ''
Whereupon she calmly transfer the rein to me and disappear .
At the time she certainly do not impress me a pretty , yet neither could I call her plain .
Taken separately , her feature be good .
Her nose be large and straight , the mouth also a trifle large but firm and red , the brow wide and white , shadow by a stray dash of brown curl or two .
She have a certain cool , statuesque paleness , accentuate by straight , fine , black brow , and her eye be a bluish grey ; but the pupil , a I afterward find out , have a trick of dilate into well of blackness which , add to a long fringe of very dark lash , make her eye quite the most striking feature of her face .
Her expression be open and frank , and her voice clear and musical without be sweet .
She look about twenty-two .
At the time I do not fancy her appearance and make a mental note to the effect that I would never like Miss Ashley .
I have no use for cool , businesslike woman -- woman should have no concern with business .
Nellie would never have trouble her dear , curly head over it .
Miss Ashley come out with her arm full of package , stow them away in the carriage , get in , tell me which road to take , and do not again speak till we be out of the village and drive along a pretty country lane , arch over with crimson maple and golden-brown beech .
The purplish haze of a sunny autumn day mellow over the field , and the bunch of golden rod at my companion 's belt be akin to the plumed rank along the fence .
I hazard the remark that it be a fine day ; Miss Ashley gravely admit that it be .
Then a deep smile seem to rise somewhere in her eye and creep over her face , discover a dimple here and there a it proceed .
`` Do n't let 's talk about the weather -- the subject be rather stale , '' she say .
`` I suppose you be wonder why on earth Mother have to drag you away out here .
I try to show her how foolish it be , but I do n't succeed .
Mother think there must be a man at the head of affair or they 'll never go right .
I could have take full charge easily enough ; I have n't be Father 's ` boy ' all my life for nothing .
There be no need to take you away from your business . ''
I protest .
I say I be go to take a vacation anyway , and business be not press just then .
I also hint that , while I have no doubt of her capacity , she might have find the duty of superintendent rather arduous .
`` Not at all , '' she say , with a serenity that make me groan inwardly .
`` I like it .
Father always say I be a born business manager .
You 'll find Ashley 's Mills very quiet , I 'm afraid .
It 's a sort of charmed Sleepy Hollow .
See , there 's home , '' a we turn a maple-blazoned corner and look from the crest of one hill across to that of another .
`` Home '' be a big , white , green-shuttered house bury amid a riot of autumn colour , with a big grove of dark green spruce at the back .
Below them be a glimpse of a dark blue mill pond and beyond it long sweep of golden-brown meadow land , slop up till they dim in horizon mist of pearl and purple .
`` How pretty , '' I exclaim admiringly .
`` Is n't it ? ''
say Gussie proudly .
`` I love it . ''
Her pupil dilate into dark pool , and I rather unwillingly admit that Miss Ashley be a fine-looking girl .
As we drive up Aunt Lucy be stand on the step of the verandah , over whose white roof trail a luxuriant creeper , it leaf ting by October frost into lovely wine red and tawny yellow .
Gussie spring out , barely touch my offer hand with her fingertip .
`` There 's Mother wait to pounce on you and hear all the family news , '' she say , `` so go and greet her like a dutiful nephew . ''
`` I must take out your horse for you first , '' I say politely .
`` Not at all , '' say Miss Ashley , take the rein from my hand in a way not to be dispute .
`` I always unharness Charley myself .
No one understand him half so well .
Besides , I 'm use to it .
Did n't I tell you I 'd always be Father 's boy ? ''
`` I well believe it , '' I think in disgust , a she lead the horse over to the well and I go up to Aunt Lucy .
Through the sitting-room window I keep a watchful eye on Miss Ashley a she water and deftly unharnessed Charley and lead him into his stable with sundry pat on his nose .
Then I saw no more of her till she come in to tell u tea be ready , and lead the way out to the dining room .
It be evident Miss Gussie hold the rein of household government , and no doubt worthily .
Those firm , capable white hand of hers look a though they might be equal to a good many emergency .
She talk little , leave the conversation to Aunt Lucy and myself , though she occasionally drop in an apt word .
Toward the end of the meal , however , she catch hold of an unfortunate opinion I have incautiously advance and tear it into tatter .
The result be a spirited argument , in which Miss Gussie hold her own with such ability that I be utterly rout and find another grievance against her .
It be very humiliate to be worst by a girl -- a country girl at that , who have pass most of her life on a farm !
No doubt she be strong-minded and want to vote .
I be quite prepared to believe anything of her .
After tea Miss Ashley propose a walk around the premise , in order to initiate me into my duty .
Apart from his farm , Mr. Ashley own large grist-and saw-mills and do a flourishing business , with the detail of which Miss Gussie seem so conversant that I lose all doubt of her ability to run the whole thing a she have claim .
I felt quite ignorant in the light of her superior knowledge , and our walk be enliven by some rather too lively discussion between u .
We walk about together , however , till the shadow of the fir by the mill stretch nearly across the pond and the white moon begin to put on a silvery burnish .
Then we wind up by a bitter dispute , during which Gussie 's eye be very black and each cheek have a round , red stain on it .
She have a little air of triumph at have defeat me .
`` I have to go now and see about put away the milk , and I dare say you 're not sorry to be rid of me , '' she say , with a demureness I have not credit her with , `` but if you come to the verandah in half an hour I 'll bring you out a glass of new milk and some pound cake I make today by a recipe that 's be in the family for one hundred year , and I hope it will choke you for all the snub you 've be give me . ''
She walk away after this amiable wish , and I stand by the pond till the salmon tint fade from it water and star begin to mirror themselves brokenly in it ripple .
The mellow air be full of sweet , mingle eventide sound a I walk back to the house .
Aunt Lucy be knit on the verandah .
Gussie bring out cake and milk and chat to u while we eat , in an inconsequent girlish way , or feed bit of cake to a green-eyed goblin in the likeness of a black cat .
She appear in such an amiable light that I be half inclined to reconsider my opinion of her .
When I go to my room the vase full of crimson leaf on my table suggest Gussie , and I repent of my unfriendliness for a moment -- and only for a moment .
Gussie and her mother pass through the hall below , and Aunt Lucy 's soft voice float up through my half-open door .
`` Well , how do you like your cousin , my dear ? ''
Whereat that decide young lady promptly answer , `` I think he be the most conceited youth I 've meet for some time . ''
Pleasant , be n't it ?
I think of Nellie 's meek admiration of all my word and way , and get her photo out to soothe my vanity .
For the first time it strike me that her feature be somewhat insipid .
The thought seem like disloyalty , so I banish it and go to bed .
I expect to dream of that disagreeable Gussie , but I do not , and I sleep so soundly that it be ten o'clock the next morning before I wake .
I spring out of bed in dismay , dress hastily , and run down , not a little provoked at myself .
Through the window I saw Gussie in the garden dig up some geranium .
She be envelop in a clay-stained brown apron , a big flapping straw hat half hide her face , and she wear a pair of muddy old kid glove .
Her whole appearance be disreputable , and the face she turn to me a I say `` Good morning '' have a diagonal streak of clay across it .
I add slovenliness to my already long list of her demerit .
`` Good afternoon , rather .
Do n't you know what time it be ?
The men be here three hour ago for their order .
I think it a pity to disturb your peaceful dream , so I give them myself and send them off . ''
I be angrier than ever .
A nice beginning I have make .
And be that girl laughing at me ?
`` I expect to be call in time , certainly , '' I say stiffly .
`` I be not accustom to oversleep myself .
I promise it will not occur again . ''
My dignity be quite lose on Gussie .
She peel off her glove cheerfully and say , `` I suppose you 'd like some breakfast .
Just wait till I wash my hand and I 'll get you some .
Then if you 're pin to be useful you can help me take up these geranium . ''
There be no help for it .
After I have breakfast I go , with many misgiving .
We get on fairly well , however .
Gussie be particularly lively and keep me too busy for argument .
I quite enjoy the time and we do not quarrel until nearly the last , when we fell out bitterly over some horticultural problem and go in to dinner in sulky silence .
Gussie disappear after dinner and I saw no more of her .
I be glad of this , but after a time I begin to find it a little dull .
Even a dispute would have be lively .
I visit the mill , look over the farm , and then carelessly ask Aunt Lucy where Miss Ashley be .
Aunt Lucy reply that she have go to visit a friend and would not be back till the next day .
This be satisfactory , of course , highly so .
What a relief it be to be rid of that girl with her self-assertiveness and independence .
I say to myself that I hop her friend would keep her for a week .
I forget to be disappoint that she have not when , next afternoon , I saw Gussie come in at the gate with a tolerably large satchel and an armful of golden rod .
I saunter down to relieve her , and we have a sharp argument under way before we be halfway up the lane .
As usual Gussie refuse to give in that she be wrong .
Her walk have bring a faint , clear tint to her cheek and her rippling dusky hair have half slip down on her neck .
She say she have to make some cooky for tea and if I have nothing well to do I might go and talk to her while she mix them .
It be not a gracious invitation but I go , rather than be leave to my own company .
By the end of the week I be as much at home at Ashley Mills a if I have live there all my life .
Gussie and I be throw together a good deal , for lack of other companion , and I saw no reason to change my opinion of her .
She could be lively and entertain when she choose , and at time she might be call beautiful .
Still , I do not approve of her -- at least I think so , most of the time .
Once in a while come a state of feel which I do not quite understand .
One evening I go to prayer meeting with Aunt Lucy and Gussie .
I have not see the minister of Ashley Mills before , though Gussie and her mother seem to know him intimately .
I have an idea that he be old and silvery-haired and benevolent-looking .
So I be rather surprised to find him as young a myself -- a tall , pale , intellectual-looking man , with a high , white brow and dark , earnest eye -- decidedly attractive .
I be still more surprised when , after the service , he join Gussie at the door and go down the step with her .
I felt distinctly ill-treated a I fell back with Aunt Lucy .
There be no reason why I should -- none ; it ought to have be a relief .
Rev . Carroll Martin have every right to see Miss Ashley home if he choose .
Doubtless a girl who know all there be to be know about business , farming , and milling , to say nothing of housekeeping and gardening , could discuss theology also .
It be none of my business .
I do n't know what keep me awake so late that night .
As a consequence I oversleep myself .
I have manage to redeem my reputation on this point , but here it be lose again .
I felt cross and foolish and cantankerous when I go out .
There be some unusual commotion at the well .
It be an old-fashioned open one , with a chain and windlass .
Aunt Lucy be peer anxiously down it mouth , from which a ladder be stick .
Just a I get there Gussie emerge from it depth with a triumphant face .
Her skirt be muddy and draggled , her hair have tumble down , and she hold a dripping black cat .
`` Coco must have fall into the well last night , '' she explain , a I help her to the ground .
`` I miss him at milking-time , and when I come to the well this morning I hear the most ear-splitting yowl come up from it .
I could n't think where he could possibly be , for the water be quite calm , until I saw he have creep into a little crevice in the stone on the side .
So I get a ladder and go down after him . ''
`` You should have call me , '' I say sourly .
`` You might have kill yourself , go down there . ''
`` And Coco might have tumble in and drown while you be get up , '' retort Gussie .
`` Besides , what be the need ?
I could go down as well a you . ''
`` No doubt , '' I say , more sharply than I have any business to .
`` I do n't dream of dispute your ability to do anything you may take it into your head to do .
Most young lady be not in the habit of go down well , however . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' she rejoin , with freezing calmness .
`` But , a you may have discover , I be not ` most young lady . '
I be myself , Augusta Ashley , and accountable to nobody but myself if I choose to go down the well every day for pure love of it . ''
She walk off in her wet dress with her muddy cat .
Gussie Ashley be the only girl I ever saw who could be dignify under such circumstance .
I be in a very bad humour with myself a I go off to see about have the well clean out .
I have offend Gussie and I know she would not be easily appease .
Nor be she .
For a week she keep me politely , studiously , at a distance , in spite of my most humble advance .
Rev . Carroll be a frequent caller , ostensibly to make arrangement about a Sunday school they be organize in a poor part of the community .
Gussie and he hold long conversation on this enthral subject .
Then Gussie go on another visit to her friend , and when she come back so do Rev . Carroll .
One calm , hazy afternoon I be come slowly up from the mill .
Happening to glance at the kitchen roof , I gasp .
It be on fire in one place .
Evidently the dry shingle have catch fire from a spark .
There be not a soul about save Gussie , Aunt Lucy , and myself .
I dash wildly into the kitchen , where Gussie be peel apple .
`` The house be on fire , '' I exclaim .
Gussie drop her knife and turn pale .
`` Do n't wake Mother , '' be all she say , a she snatch a bucket of water from the table .
The ladder be still lie by the well .
In a second I have raise it to the roof and , while Gussie go up it like a squirrel and dash the water on the flame , I have two more bucket ready for her .
Fortunately the fire have make little headway , though a few minute more would have give it a dangerous start .
The flame hiss and die out a Gussie throw on the water , and in a few second only a small black hole in the shingle remain .
Gussie slide down the ladder .
She tremble in every limb , but she put out her wet hand to me with a faint , triumphant smile .
We shake hand across the ladder with a cordiality never before express .
For the next week , in spite of Rev . Carroll , I be happy when I think of Gussie and miserable when I think of Nellie .
I hold myself in some way bound to her and -- be she not my ideal ?
Undoubtedly !
One day I get a letter from my sister .
It be long and newsy , and the eighth page be most interesting .
`` If you do n't come home and look after Nellie , '' write Kate , `` you 'll soon not have her to look after .
You remember that old lover of hers , Rod Allen ?
Well , he 's home from the west now , immensely rich , they say , and his attention to Nellie be the town talk .
I think she like him too .
If you bury yourself any long at Ashley Mills I wo n't be responsible for the consequence . ''
This lift an immense weight from my mind , but the ninth page hurl it back again .
`` You never say anything of Miss Ashley in your letter .
What be she like -- young or old , ugly or pretty , clever or dull ?
I meet a lady recently who know her and think she be charm .
She also say Miss Ashley be to be marry soon to Rev . Something-or-Other .
Is it true ? ''
Aye , be it ?
Quite likely .
Kate 's letter make a very miserable man of me .
Gussie find me a dull companion that day .
After several vain attempt to rouse me to interest she give it up .
`` There 's no use talk to you , '' she say impatiently .
`` I believe you be homesick .
That letter you get this morning look suspicious .
Anyhow , I hope you 'll get over it before I get back . ''
`` Are you go away again ? ''
I ask .
`` Yes .
I be go to stay a few day with Flossie . ''
Flossie be that inseparable chum of hers .
`` You seem to spend a good deal of your time with her , '' I remark discontentedly .
Gussie open her eye at my tone .
`` Why , of course , '' she say .
`` Flossie and I have always be chum .
And she need me more than ever just now , for she be awfully busy .
She be to be marry next month . ''
`` Oh , I see -- and you -- '' `` I 'm to be bridesmaid , of course , and we 've heap to do .
Flossie want to wait until Christmas , but Mr. Martin be in a -- '' `` Mr. Martin , '' I interrupt .
`` Is Mr. Martin go to marry your friend ? ''
`` Why , yes .
Did n't you know ?
They just suit each other .
There he come now .
He 's go to drive me over , and I 'm not ready .
Talk to him , for pity 's sake , while I go and dress . ''
I never enjoy a conversation more .
Rev . Carroll Martin be a remarkably interesting man .
Nellie marry Rod Allen at Christmas and I be best man .
Nellie make a charming little bride , and Rod fairly worship her .
My own wedding do not come off until spring , a Gussie say she could not get ready before that .
Kismet The fifth heat in the free-for-all be just over .
`` Lu-Lu '' have win , and the crowd on the grand stand and the hangers-on around the track be cheer themselves hoarse .
Clear through the noisy clamour shrill a woman 's cry .
`` Ah -- I have drop my scorecard . ''
A man in front of her turned .
`` I have an extra one , madame .
Will you accept it ? ''
Her small , modishly-gloved hand close eagerly on it before she lift her eye to his face .
Both start convulsively .
The man turn very pale , but the woman 's ripe-tinted face colour darkly .
`` You ? ''
she falter .
His lip part in the coldly-grave smile she remember and hat .
`` You be not glad to see me , '' he say calmly , `` but that , I suppose , be not to be expect .
I do not come here to annoy you .
This meeting be as unexpected to me a to you .
I have no suspicion that for the last half-hour I have be stand next to my -- '' She interrupt him by an imperious gesture .
Still clutch the scorecard she half-turned from him .
Again he smile , this time with a tinge of scorn , and shift his eye to the track .
None of the people around them have notice the little by-play .
All eye be on the track , which be be clear for the first heat of another race .
The free-for-all horse be be lead away blanket .
The crowd cheer `` Lu-Lu '' a she go past , a shapeless oddity .
The backer of `` Mascot '' , the rival favourite , look gloomy .
The woman notice nothing of all this .
She be small , very pretty , still young , and gown in a quite unmistakable way .
She study the man 's profile furtively .
He look old than when she have see him last -- there be some silver thread gleam in his close-clipped dark hair and short , pointed beard .
Otherwise there be little change in the quiet feature and somewhat stern grey eye .
She wonder if he have care at all .
They have not meet for five year .
She shut her eye and look in on her past .
It all come back very vividly .
She have be eighteen when they be marry -- a gay , high-spirited girl and the season 's beauty .
He be much old and a quiet , serious student .
Her friend have wonder why she marry him -- sometimes she wonder herself , but she have love him , or think so .
The marriage have be an unhappy one .
She be fond of society and gaiety , he want quiet and seclusion .
She Was impulsive and impatient , he deliberate and grave .
The strong will clash .
After two year of an unbearable sort of life they have separate -- quietly , and without scandal of any sort .
She have want a divorce , but he would not agree to that , so she have take her own independent fortune and go back to her own way of life .
In the following five year she have succeed in bury all remembrance well out of sight .
No one knew if she be satisfied or not ; her world be charitable to her and she live a gay and quite irreproachable life .
She wish that she have not come to the race .
It be such an irritating encounter .
She open her eye wearily ; the dusty track , the fly horse , the gay dress of the woman on the grandstand , the cloudless blue sky , the brilliant September sunshine , the purple distance all commingle in a glare that make her head ache .
Before it all she saw the tall figure by her side , his face turn from her , watch the track intently .
She wonder with a vague curiosity what induce him to come to the race .
Such thing be not greatly in his line .
Evidently their chance meeting have not disturb him .
It be a sign that he do not care .
She sigh a little wearily and close her eye .
When the heat be over he turn to her .
`` May I ask how you have be since -- since we meet last ?
You be look extremely well .
Has Vanity Fair pal in any degree ? ''
She be angry at herself and him .
Where have her careless society manner and well-bred composure go ?
She felt weak and hysterical .
What if she should burst into tear before the whole crowd -- before those coldly critical grey eye ?
She almost hat him .
`` No -- why should it ?
I have find it very pleasant -- and I have be well -- very well .
And you ? ''
He jot down the score carefully before he reply .
`` I ?
Oh , a book-worm and recluse always lead a placid life .
I never care for excitement , you know .
I come down here to attend a sale of some rare edition , and a well-meaning friend drag me out to see the race .
I find it rather interesting , I must confess , much more so than I should have fancy .
Sorry I ca n't stay until the end .
I must go as soon a the free-for-all be over , if not before .
I have back ` Mascot ' ; you ? '' ''
` Lu-Lu ' '' she answer quickly -- it almost seem defiantly .
How horribly unreal it be -- this carry on of small talk , a if they be the mere of chance-met acquaintance !
`` She belong to a friend of mine , so I be naturally interested . ''
`` She and ` Mascot ' be tie now -- both have win two heat .
One more for either will decide it .
This be a good day for the race .
Excuse me . ''
He lean over and brush a scrap of paper from her grey cloak .
She shiver slightly .
`` You be cold !
This stand be draughty . ''
`` I be not at all cold , thank you .
What race be this ?
-- oh !
the three-minute one . ''
She bend forward with assumed interest to watch the scoring .
She be breathe heavily .
There be tear in her eye -- she bite her lips savagely and glare at the track until they be go .
Presently he speak again , in the low , even tone demand by circumstance .
`` This be a curious meeting , be it not ?
-- quite a flavor of romance !
By-the-way , do you read a many novel a ever ? ''
She fancy there be mockery in his tone .
She remember how very frivolous he use to consider her novel-reading .
Besides , she resent the personal tinge .
What right have he ?
`` Almost a many , '' she answer carelessly .
`` I be very intolerant , be n't I ? ''
he say after a pause .
`` You think so -- you be right .
You have be happy since you -- leave me ? ''
`` Yes , '' she say defiantly , look straight into his eye .
`` And you do not regret it ? ''
He bend down a little .
His sleeve brush against her shoulder .
Something in his face arrest the answer she mean to make .
`` I -- I -- do not say that , '' she murmur faintly .
There be a burst of cheering .
The free-for-all horse be be bring out for the sixth heat .
She turn away to watch them .
The scoring begin , and seem likely to have no end .
She be tire of it all .
It do n't matter a pin to her whether `` Lu-Lu '' or `` Mascot '' win .
What do matter !
Had Vanity Fair after all be a satisfying exchange for love ?
He have love her once , and they have be happy at first .
She have never before say , even in her own heart : `` I be sorry , '' but -- suddenly , she felt his hand on her shoulder , and look up .
Their eye meet .
He stoop and say almost in a whisper : `` Will you come back to me ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' she whisper breathlessly , a one half-fascinated .
`` We be both to blame -- but I the most .
I be too hard on you -- I ought to have make more allowance .
We be wiser now both of u .
Come back to me -- my wife . ''
His tone be cold and his face expressionless .
It be on her lip to cry out `` No , '' passionately .
But the slender , scholarly hand on her shoulder be tremble with the intensity of his repressed emotion .
He do care , then .
A wild caprice flash into her brain .
She spring up .
`` See , '' she cry , `` they 're off now .
This heat will probably decide the race .
If ` Lu-Lu ' win I will not go back to you , if ` Mascot ' do I will .
That be my decision . ''
He turn paler , but bow in assent .
He know by bitter experience how unchangeable her whim be , how obstinately she cling to even the most absurd .
She lean forward breathlessly .
The crowd hung silently on the track .
`` Lu-Lu '' and `` Mascot '' be neck and neck , get in splendid work .
Half-way round the course `` Lu-Lu '' forge half a neck ahead , and her backer go mad .
But one woman drop her head in her hand and dare look no more .
One man with white face and set lip watch the track unswervingly .
Again `` Mascot '' crawl up , inch by inch .
They be on the home stretch , they be equal , the cheer break out , then silence , then another terrific burst , shout , yell and clapping -- `` Mascot '' have win the free-for-all .
In the front row a woman stand up , sway and shake a a leaf in the wind .
She straighten her scarlet hat and readjust her veil unsteadily .
There be a smile on her lip and tear in her eye .
No one notice her .
A man beside her drew her hand through his arm in a quiet proprietary fashion .
They leave the grand stand together .
Lilian 's Business Venture Lilian Mitchell turn into the dry-goods store on Randall Street , just a Esther Miller and Ella Taylor come out .
They respond coldly to her greeting and exchange significant glance a they walk away .
Lilian 's pale face crimson .
She be a tall , slender girl of about seventeen , and dress in mourning .
These girl have be her close friend once .
But that be before the Mitchells have lose their money .
Since then Lilian have be cut by many of her old chum and she felt it keenly .
The clerk in the store be busy and Lilian sit down to wait her turn .
Near to her two lady be also wait and chat .
`` Helen want me to let her have a birthday party , '' Mrs. Saunders be say wearily .
`` She have be promise it so long and I hate to disappoint the child , but our girl leave last week , and I can not possibly make all the cake and thing myself .
I have n't the time or strength , so Helen must do without her party . ''
`` Talking of girl , '' say Mrs. Reeves impatiently , `` I be almost discourage .
It be so hard to get a good all-round one .
The last one I have be so saucy I have to discharge her , and the one I have now can not make decent bread .
I never have good luck with bread myself either . ''
`` That be Mrs. Porter 's great grievance too .
It be no light task to bake bread for all those boarder .
Have you make your jelly yet ? ''
`` No .
Maria can not make it , she say , and I detest mess with jelly .
But I really must see to it soon . ''
At this point a saleswoman come up to Lilian , who make her small purchase and go out .
`` There go Lilian Mitchell , '' say Mrs. Reeves in an undertone .
`` She look very pale .
They say they be dreadfully poor since Henry Mitchell die .
His affair be in a bad condition , I be told . ''
`` I be sorry for Mrs. Mitchell , '' respond Mrs. Saunders .
`` She be such a sweet woman .
Lilian will have to do something , I suppose , and there be so little chance for a girl here . ''
Lilian , walk down the street , be wearily turn over in her mind the problem of her young existence .
Her father have die the precede spring .
He have be a supposedly prosperous merchant ; the Mitchells have always live well , and Lilian be a petted and only child .
Then come the shock of Henry Mitchell 's sudden death and of financial ruin .
His affair be find to be hopelessly involve ; when all the debt be pay there be leave only the mere pittance -- barely enough for house-rent -- for Lilian and her mother to live upon .
They have move into a tiny cottage in an unfashionable locality , and during the summer Lilian have try hard to think of something to do .
Mrs. Mitchell be a delicate woman , and the burden of their situation fell on Lilian 's young shoulder .
There seem to be no place for her .
She could not teach and have no particular talent in any line .
There be no opening for her in Willington , which be a rather sleepy little place , and Lilian be almost in despair .
`` There really do n't seem to be any real place in the world for me , Mother , '' she say rather dolefully at the supper table .
`` I 've no talent at all ; it be dreadful to have be bear without one .
And yet I must do something , and do it soon . ''
And Lilian , after she have wash up the tea dish , go upstairs and have a good cry .
But the dark hour , so the proverb go , be just before the dawn , and after Lilian have have her cry out and be sit at her window in the dusk , watch a thin new moon shining over the tree down the street , her inspiration come to her .
A minute later she whirl into the tiny sitting-room where her mother be sew .
`` Mother , our fortune be make !
I have an idea ! ''
`` Do n't lose it , then , '' say Mrs. Mitchell with a smile .
`` What be it , my dear ? ''
Lilian sober herself , sit down by her mother 's side , and proceed to recount the conversation she have hear in the store that afternoon .
`` Now , Mother , this be where my brilliant idea come in .
You have often tell me I be a born cook and I always have good luck .
Now , tomorrow morning I shall go to Mrs. Saunders and offer to furnish all the good thing for Helen 's birthday party , and then I 'll ask Mrs. Reeves and Mrs. Porter if I may make their bread for them .
That will do for a beginning , I like cook , you know , and I believe that in time I can work up a good business . ''
`` It seem to be a good idea , '' say Mrs. Mitchell thoughtfully , `` and I be willing that you should try .
But have you think it all out carefully ?
There will be many difficulty . ''
`` I know .
I do n't expect smooth sail right along , and perhaps I 'll fail altogether ; but somehow I do n't believe I will . ''
`` A great many of your old friend will think -- '' `` Oh , yes ; I know that too , but I be not go to mind it , Mother .
I do n't think there be any disgrace in work for my living .
I 'm go to do my best and not care what people say . ''
Early next morning Lilian start out .
She have carefully think over the detail of her small venture , consider way and mean , and decide on the most advisable course .
She would not attempt too much , and she felt sure of success .
To secure competent servant be one of the problem of Willington people .
At Drayton , a large neighbour town , be several factory , and into these all the work girl from Willington have crowd , leave very few who be willing to go out to service .
Many of those who do be poor cook , and Lilian shrewdly suspect that many a harassed housekeeper in the village would be glad to avail herself of the new enterprise .
Lilian be , a she have say of herself , `` a born cook . ''
This be her capital , and she mean to make the most of it .
Mrs. Saunders listen to her businesslike detail with surprise and delight .
`` It be the very thing , '' she say .
`` Helen be so eager for that party , but I could not undertake it myself .
Her birthday be Friday .
Can you have everything ready by then ? ''
`` Yes , I think so , '' say Lilian briskly , produce her notebook .
`` Please give me the list of what you want and I will do my best . ''
From Mrs. Saunders she go to Mrs. Reeves and find a customer as soon a she have tell the reason of her call .
`` I 'll furnish all the bread and roll you need , '' she say , `` and they will be good , too .
Now , about your jelly .
I can make good jelly , and I 'll be very glad to make yours . ''
When she leave , Lilian have an order for two dozen glass of apple jelly , as well a a stand one for bread and roll .
Mrs. Porter be next visited and grasp eagerly at the opportunity .
`` I know your bread will be good , '' she say , `` and you may count on me a a regular customer . ''
Lilian thought she have enough on hand for a first attempt and go home satisfied .
On her way she call at the grocery store with an order that surprise Mr. Hooper .
When she tell him of her plan he open his eye .
`` I must tell my wife about that .
She be n't strong and she do n't like cooking . ''
After dinner Lilian go to work , envelop in a big apron , and whip egg , stone raisin , stir , concoct , and bake until dark .
When bedtime come she be so tired that she could hardly crawl upstairs ; but she felt happy too , for the day have be a successful one .
And so also be the day and week and month that follow .
It be hard and constant work , but it bring it reward .
Lilian have not promise more than she could perform , and her customer be satisfied .
In a short time she find herself with a regular and grow business on her hand , for new customer be gradually add and always come to stay .
People who give party find it very convenient to follow Mrs. Saunders 's example and order their supply from Lilian .
She have a very busy winter and , of course , it be not all plain sailing .
She have many difficulty to contend with .
Sometimes day come on which everything seem to go wrong -- when the stove smoke or the oven would n't heat properly , when cake fell flat and bread be sour and pie behave a only totally depraved pie can , when she burn her finger and felt like give up in despair .
Then , again , she find herself cut by several of her old acquaintance .
But she be too sensible to worry much over this .
The friend really worth have be still hers , her mother 's face have lose it look of care , and her business be prosper .
She be hopeful and wide awake , keep her wit about her and look out for hint , and learn to laugh over her failure .
During the winter she and her mother have manage to do most of the work themselves , hire little Mary Robinson next door on especially busy day , and now and then call in the assistance of Jimmy Bowen and his hand sled to carry order to customer .
But when spring come Lilian prepare to open up her summer campaign on a much large scale .
Mary Robinson be hire for the season , and John Perkins be engage to act a carrier with his express wagon .
A summer kitchen be board in in the backyard , and a new range buy ; Lilian begin operation with a striking advertisement in the Willington News and an attractive circular send around to all her patron .
Picnics and summer wedding be frequent .
In bread and roll her trade be brisk and constant .
She also take order for pickle , preserve , and jelly , and this become such a flourishing branch that a second assistant have to be hire .
It be a cardinal rule with Lilian never to send out any article that be not up to her standard .
She bore the loss of her failure , and sometimes stay up half of the night to fill an order on time .
`` Prompt and perfect '' be her motto .
The long hot summer day be very try , and sometimes she get very tire of it all .
But when on the anniversary of her first venture she make up her account she be well pleased .
To be sure , she have not make a fortune ; but she have pay all their expense , have a hundred dollar clear , and have lay the solid foundation of a profitable business .
`` Mother , '' she say jubilantly , a she wipe a dab of flour from her nose and proceed to concoct the icing for Blanche Remington 's wed cake , `` do n't you think my business venture have be a decided success ? ''
Mrs. Mitchell survey her busy daughter with a motherly smile .
`` Yes , I think it have , '' she say .
Miriam 's Lover I have be read a ghost story to Mrs. Sefton , and I lay it down at the end with a little shrug of contempt .
`` What utter nonsense ! ''
I say .
Mrs. Sefton nod abstractedly above her fancywork .
`` That be .
It be a very commonplace story indeed .
I do n't believe the spirit of the departed trouble themselves to revisit the glimpse of the moon for the purpose of frighten honest mortal -- or even for the sake of hang around the favourite haunt of their existence in the flesh .
If they ever appear , it must be for a good reason than that . ''
`` You do n't surely think that they ever do appear ? ''
I say incredulously .
`` We have no proof that they do not , my dear . ''
`` Surely , Mary , '' I exclaim , `` you do n't mean to say that you believe people ever do or can see spirit -- ghost , a the word go ? ''
`` I do n't say I believe it .
I never saw anything of the sort .
I neither believe nor disbelieve .
But you know queer thing do happen at time -- thing you ca n't account for .
At least , people who you know would n't lie say so .
Of course , they may be mistake .
And I do n't think that everybody can see spirit either , provide they be to be see .
It require people of a certain organization -- with a spiritual eye , a it be .
We have n't all get that -- in fact , I think very few of u have .
I dare say you think I 'm talk nonsense . ''
`` Well , yes , I think you be .
You really surprise me , Mary .
I always think you the least likely person in the world to take up with such idea .
Something must have come under your observation to develop such theory in your practical head .
Tell me what it be . ''
`` To what purpose ?
You would remain as sceptical a ever . ''
`` Possibly not .
Try me ; I may be convince . ''
`` No , '' return Mrs. Sefton calmly .
`` Nobody ever be convince by hearsay .
When a person have once see a spirit -- or think he have -- he thenceforth believe it .
And when somebody else be intimately associate with that person and know all the circumstance -- well , he admit the possibility , at least .
That be my position .
But by the time it get to the third person -- the outsider -- it lose power .
Besides , in this particular instance the story be n't very exciting .
But then -- it 's true . ''
`` You have excite my curiosity .
You must tell me the story . ''
`` Well , first tell me what you think of this .
Suppose two people , both sensitively organize individual , love each other with a love strong than life .
If they be apart , do you think it might be possible for their soul to communicate with each other in some inexplicable way ?
And if anything happen to one , do n't you think that that one could and would let the spirit of the other know ? ''
`` You 're get into too deep water for me , Mary , '' I say , shake my head .
`` I 'm not an authority on telepathy , or whatever you call it .
But I 've no belief in such theory .
In fact , I think they be all nonsense .
I 'm sure you must think so too in your rational moment . ''
`` I dare say it be all nonsense , '' say Mrs. Sefton slowly , `` but if you have live a whole year in the same house with Miriam Gordon , you would have be taint too .
Not that she have ` theory ' -- at least , she never air them if she have .
But there be simply something about the girl herself that give a person strange impression .
When I first meet her I have the most uncanny feeling that she be all spirit -- soul -- what you will !
no flesh , anyhow .
That feel wear off after a while , but she never seem like other people to me .
`` She be Mr. Sefton 's niece .
Her father have die when she be a child .
When Miriam be twenty her mother have marry a second time and go to Europe with her husband .
Miriam come to live with u while they be away .
Upon their return she be herself to be marry .
`` I have never see Miriam before .
Her arrival be unexpected , and I be absent from home when she come .
I return in the evening , and when I saw her first she be stand under the chandelier in the drawing room .
Talk about spirit !
For five second I think I have see one .
`` Miriam be a beauty .
I have know that before , though I think I hardly expect to see such wonderful loveliness .
She be tall and extremely graceful , dark -- at least her hair be dark , but her skin be wonderfully fair and clear .
Her hair be gather away from her face , and she have a high , pure , white forehead , and the straight , fine , black brow .
Her face be oval , with very large and dark eye .
`` I soon realize that Miriam be in some mysterious fashion different from other people .
I think everyone who meet her felt the same way .
Yet it be a feeling hard to define .
For my own part I simply felt a if she belong to another world , and that part of the time she -- her soul , you know -- be back there again .
`` You must not suppose that Miriam be a disagreeable person to have in the house .
On the contrary , it be the very reverse .
Everybody like her .
She be one of the sweet , most winsome girl I ever know , and I soon grow to love her dearly .
As for what Dick call her ` little queerness ' -- well , we get use to them in time .
`` Miriam be engage , a I have tell you , to a young Harvard man name Sidney Claxton .
I know she love him very deeply .
When she show me his photograph , I like his appearance and say so .
Then I make some teasing remark about her love-letters -- just for a joke , you know .
Miriam look at me with an odd little smile and say quickly : '' ` Sidney and I never write to each other . ' ''
` Why , Miriam ! '
I exclaim in astonishment .
` Do you mean to tell me you never hear from him at all ? ' ''
` No , I do not say that .
I hear from him every day -- every hour .
We do not need to write letter .
There be good mean of communication between two soul that be in perfect accord with each other . ' ''
` Miriam , you uncanny creature , what do you mean ? '
I ask .
`` But Miriam only give another queer smile and make no answer at all .
Whatever her belief or theory be , she would never discuss them .
`` She have a habit of drop into abstracted revery at any time or place .
No matter where she be , this , whatever it be , would come over her .
She would sit there , perhaps in the centre of a gay crowd , and gaze right out into space , not hear or see a single thing that go on around her .
`` I remember one day in particular ; we be sew in my room .
I look up and saw that Miriam 's work have drop on her knee and she be lean forward , her lips apart , her eye gaze upward with an unearthly expression . ''
` Do n't look like that , Miriam ! '
I say , with a little shiver .
` You seem to be look at something a thousand mile away ! '
`` Miriam come out of her trance or reverie and say , with a little laugh : '' ` How do you know but that I be ? '
`` She bend her head for a minute or two .
Then she lift it again and look at me with a sudden contraction of her level brows that betoken vexation . '' '
I wish you have n't speak to me just then , ' she say .
` You interrupt the message I be receive .
I shall not get it at all now . ' ''
` Miriam , ' I implore . '
I so wish my dear girl , that you would n't talk so .
It make people think there be something queer about you .
Who in the world be send you a message , a you call it ? ' ''
` Sidney , ' say Miriam simply . ''
` Nonsense ! ' ''
` You think it be nonsense because you do n't understand it , ' be her calm response .
`` I recall another event be when some caller drop in and we have drift into a discussion about ghost and the like -- and I 've no doubt we all talk some delicious nonsense .
Miriam say nothing at the time , but when we be alone I ask her what she think of it . '' '
I think you be all merely talk against time , ' she retort evasively . ''
` But , Miriam , do you really think it be possible for ghost -- ' '' ' I detest that word ! ' ''
` Well , spirit then -- to return after death , or to appear to anyone apart from the flesh ? ' '' '
I will tell you what I know .
If anything be to happen to Sidney -- if he be to die or be kill -- he would come to me himself and tell me . '
`` One day Miriam come down to lunch look pale and worry .
After Dick go out , I ask her if anything be wrong . ''
` Something have happen to Sidney , ' she reply , ` some painful accident -- I do n't know what . ' ''
` How do you know ? '
I cry .
Then , a she look at me strangely , I add hastily , ` You have n't be receive any more unearthly message , have you ?
Surely , Miriam , you be not so foolish a to really believe in that ! ' '' '
I know , ' she answer quickly .
` Belief or disbelief have nothing to do with it .
Yes , I have have a message .
I know that some accident have happen to Sidney -- painful and inconvenient but not particularly dangerous .
I do not know what it be .
Sidney will write me that .
He write when it be absolutely necessary . ' ''
` Aerial communication be n't perfect yet then ? '
I say mischievously .
But , observe how really worried she seem , I add , ` Do n't fret , Miriam .
You may be mistake . '
`` Well , two day afterwards she get a note from her lover -- the first I have ever know her to receive -- in which he say he have be throw from his horse and have break his left arm .
It have happen the very morning Miriam receive her message .
`` Miriam have be with u about eight month when one day she come into my room hurriedly .
She be very pale . ''
` Sidney be ill -- dangerously ill .
What shall I do ? '
`` I know she must have have another of those abominable message -- or think she have -- and really , remember the incident of the broken arm , I could n't feel as sceptical a I pretend to .
I try to cheer her , but do not succeed .
Two hour later she have a telegram from her lover 's college chum , say that Mr. Claxton be dangerously ill with typhoid fever .
`` I be quite alarmed about Miriam in the day that follow .
She grieve and fret continually .
One of her trouble be that she receive no more message ; she say it be because Sidney be too ill to send them .
Anyhow , she have to content herself with the mean of communication use by ordinary mortal .
`` Sidney 's mother , who have go to nurse him , write every day , and at last good news come .
The crisis be over and the doctor in attendance think Sidney would recover .
Miriam seem like a new creature then , and rapidly recover her spirit .
`` For a week report continue favourable .
One night we go to the opera to hear a celebrated prima donna .
When we return home Miriam and I be sit in her room , chat over the event of the evening .
`` Suddenly she sit straight up with a sort of convulsive shudder , and at the same time -- you may laugh if you like -- the most horrible feeling come over me .
I do n't see anything , but I just felt that there be something or someone in the room besides ourselves .
`` Miriam be gaze straight before her .
She rise to her foot and hold out her hand . ''
` Sidney ! '
she say .
`` Then she fell to the floor in a dead faint .
`` I scream for Dick , ring the bell and rush to her .
`` In a few minute the whole household be arouse , and Dick be off posthaste for the doctor , for we could not revive Miriam from her death-like swoon .
She seem a one dead .
We work over her for hour .
She would come out of her faint for a moment , give u an unknowing stare and go shudderingly off again .
`` The doctor talk of some fearful shock , but I keep my own counsel .
At dawn Miriam come back to life at last .
When she and I be leave alone , she turn to me . ''
` Sidney be dead , ' she say quietly . '
I saw him -- just before I faint .
I look up , and he be stand between me and you .
He have come to say farewell . '
`` What could I say ?
Almost while we be talk a telegram come .
He be dead -- he have die at the very hour at which Miriam have see him . ''
Mrs. Sefton pause , and the lunch bell rang .
`` What do you think of it ? ''
she query a we rise .
`` Honestly , I do n't know what I think of it , '' I answer frankly .
Miss Calista 's Peppermint Bottle Miss Calista be perplex .
Her nephew , Caleb Cramp , who have be her right-hand man for year and whom she have get well broken into her way , have go to the Klondike , leave her to fill his place with the next best man ; but the next best man be slow to appear , and meanwhile Miss Calista be look about her warily .
She could afford to wait a while , for the crop be all in and the fall plough do , so that the need of a successor to Caleb be not as press a it might otherwise have be .
There be no lack of applicant , such a they be .
Miss Calista be know to be a kind and generous mistress , although she have her `` way , '' and insist calmly and immovably upon wholehearted compliance with them .
She have a small , well-cultivated farm and a comfortable house , and her hired men live in clover .
Caleb Cramp have be perfection after his kind , and Miss Calista do not expect to find his equal .
Nevertheless , she set up a certain standard of requirement ; and although three week , during which Miss Calista have be oblige to put up with the immature service of a neighbour 's boy , have elapse since Caleb 's departure , no one have a yet step into his vacant and covet shoe .
Certainly Miss Calista be somewhat hard to please , but she be not think of herself a she sit by her front window in the chilly November twilight .
Instead , she be muse on the degeneration of hire men , and reflect that it be high time the wheat be thrash , the house bank , and sundry other duty attend to .
Ches Maybin have be up that afternoon to negotiate for the vacant place , and have offer to give satisfaction for small wage than Miss Calista have ever pay .
But he have meet with a brusque refusal , scarcely as civil a Miss Calista have bestow on drunken Jake Stinson from the Morrisvale Road .
Not that Miss Calista have any particular prejudice against Ches Maybin , or know anything positively to his discredit .
She be simply unconsciously follow the example of a world that exert itself to keep a man down when he be down and prevent all chance of his rising .
Nothing succeed like success , and the converse of this be likewise true -- that nothing fails like failure .
There be not a person in Cooperstown who would not have heartily endorse Miss Calista 's refusal .
Ches Maybin be only eighteen , although he look several year old , and although no flagrant misdoing have ever be prove against him , suspicion of such be not want .
He come of a bad stock , people say sagely , add that what be breed in the bone be bind to come out in the flesh .
His father , old Sam Maybin , have be a shiftless and tricky rascal , a everybody know , and have end his day in the poorhouse .
Ches 's mother have die when he be a baby , and he have come up somehow , in a hand-to-mouth fashion , with all the cloud of heredity hanging over him .
He be always look at askance , and when any mischief come to light in the village , it be generally fasten on him a a convenient and handy scapegoat .
He be consider sulky and lazy , and the local prophet unite in predict a bad end for him sooner or later ; and , moreover , diligently endeavour by their general treatment of him to put him in a fair way to fulfil their prediction .
Miss Calista , when she have shut Chester Maybin out into the chill gloom of the November dusk , dismiss him from her thought .
There be other thing of more moment to her just then than old Sam Maybin 's hopeful son .
There be nobody in the house but herself , and although this be neither alarm nor unusual , it be unusual -- and Miss Calista consider it alarm -- that the sum of five hundred dollar should at that very moment be in the upper right-hand drawer of the sideboard , which sum have be up to the previous day safe in the coffer of the Millageville bank .
But certain unfavourable rumour be in course of circulation about that same institution , and Miss Calista , who be nothing if not prudent , have go to the bank that very morning and withdrawn her deposit .
She intend to go over to Kerrytown the very next day and deposit it in the Savings Bank there .
Not another day would she keep it in the house , and , indeed , it worry her to think she must keep it even for the night , a she have tell Mrs. Galloway that afternoon during a neighbourly back-yard chat .
`` Not but what it 's safe enough , '' she say , `` for not a soul but you know I 've get it .
But I 'm not use to have so much by me , and there be always tramps go round .
It worry me somehow .
I would n't give it a thought if Caleb be here .
I s ` pose be all alone make me nervous . ''
Miss Calista be still rather nervous when she go to bed that night , but she be a woman of sound sense and be determine not to give way to foolish fear .
She lock door and window carefully , a be her habit , and saw that the fastening be good and secure .
The one on the dining-room window , look out on the back yard , be n't ; in fact , it be break altogether ; but , a Miss Calista tell herself , it have be break just so for the last six year , and nobody have ever try to get in at it yet , and it be n't likely anyone would begin tonight .
Miss Calista go to bed and , despite her worry , slept soon and soundly .
It be well on past midnight when she suddenly waken and sit bolt upright in bed .
She be not accustom to waken in the night , and she have the impression of have be awaken by some noise .
She listen breathlessly .
Her room be directly over the dining-room , and an empty stovepipe hole open up through the ceiling of the latter at the head of her bed .
There be no mistake about it .
Something or some person be move about stealthily in the room below .
It be n't the cat -- Miss Calista have shut him in the woodshed before she go to bed , and he could n't possibly get out .
It must certainly be a beggar or tramp of some description .
Miss Calista might be give over to nervousness in regard to imaginary thief , but in the presence of real danger she be cool and self-reliant .
As noiselessly and swiftly a any burglar himself , Miss Calista slip out of bed and into her clothes .
Then she tip-toed out into the hall .
The late moonlight , stream in through the hall windows , be quite enough illumination for her purpose , and she get downstairs and be fairly in the open doorway of the dining-room before a sound betray her presence .
Standing at the sideboard , hastily ransack the neat content of an open drawer , stand a man 's figure , dimly visible in the moonlight gloom .
As Miss Calista 's grim form appear in the doorway , the midnight marauder turn with a start and then , with an inarticulate cry , sprang , not at the courageous lady , but at the open window behind him .
Miss Calista , realize with a flash of comprehension that he be escape her , have a woman-like impulse to get a blow in anyhow ; she grasp and hurl at her unceremonious caller the first thing that come to hand -- a bottle of peppermint essence that be stand on the sideboard .
The missile hit the escape thief squarely on the shoulder a he spring out of the window , and the fragment of glass come clatter down on the sill .
The next moment Miss Calista find herself alone , stand by the sideboard in a half-dazed fashion , for the whole thing have pass with such lightning-like rapidity that it almost seem a if it be the dissolve end of a bad dream .
But the open drawer and the window , where the bit of glass be glisten in the moonlight , be no dream .
Miss Calista recover herself speedily , close the window , light the lamp , gather up the broken glass , and set up the chair which the would-be thief have upset in his exit .
An examination of the sideboard show the precious five hundred safe and sound in an undisturbed drawer .
Miss Calista keep grim watch and ward there until morning , and think the matter over exhaustively .
In the end she resolve to keep her own counsel .
She have no clue whatever to the thief 's whereabouts or identity , and no good would come of make a fuss , which might only end in throw suspicion on someone who might be quite innocent .
When the morning come Miss Calista lose no time in set out for Kerrytown , where the money be soon safely deposit in the bank .
She heave a sigh of relief when she leave the building .
I feel a if I could enjoy life once more , she say to herself .
Goodness me , if I 'd have to keep that money by me for a week itself , I 'd have be a rave lunatic by the end of it .
Miss Calista have shopping to do and friends to visit in town , so that the dull autumn day be well nigh spent when she finally get back to Cooperstown and pause at the corner store to get a bundle of match .
The store be full of men , smoking and chat around the fire , and Miss Calista , whose pet abomination be tobacco smoke , be not at all mind to wait any long than she could help .
But Abiram Fell be attend to a previous customer , and Miss Calista sit grimly down by the counter to wait her turn .
The door open , let in a swirl of raw November evening wind and Ches Maybin .
He nod sullenly to Mr. Fell and pass down the store to mutter a message to a man at the further end .
Miss Calista lift her head a he pass and sniff the air a a charger who scent battle .
The smell of tobacco be strong , and so be that of the open box of dried herring on the counter , but plainly , above all the commingled odour of a country grocery , Miss Calista catch a whiff of peppermint , so strong a to leave no doubt of it origin .
There have be no hint of it before Ches Maybin 's entrance .
The latter do not wait long .
He be out and stride along the shadowy road when Miss Calista leave the store and drive smartly after him .
It never take Miss Calista long to make up her mind about anything , and she have weigh and pass judgement on Ches Maybin 's case while Mr. Fell be do up her match .
The lad glance up furtively a she check her fat grey pony beside him .
`` Good evening , Chester , '' she say with brisk kindness .
`` I can give you a lift , if you be go my way .
Jump in , quick -- Dapple be a little restless . ''
A wave of crimson , duskily perceptible under his sunburned skin , surge over Ches Maybin 's face .
It almost seem a if he be go to blurt out a blunt refusal .
But Miss Calista 's face be so guileless and her tone so friendly , that he think good of it and spring in beside her , and Dapple break into an impatient trot down the long hill line with it bare , wind-writhen maple .
After a few minute ' silence Miss Calista turn to her moody companion .
`` Chester , '' she say , as tranquilly a if about to ask him the most ordinary question in the world , `` why do you climb into my house last night and try to steal my money ? ''
Ches Maybin start convulsively , a if he mean to spring from the buggy at once , but Miss Calista 's hand be on his arm in a grasp none the less firm because of it gentleness , and there be a warning gleam in her grey eye .
`` It wo n't mend matter try to get clear of me , Chester .
I know it be you and I want an answer -- a truthful one , mind you -- to my question .
I be your friend , and I be not go to harm you if you tell me the truth . ''
Her clear and incisive gaze meet and hold irresistibly the boy 's waver one .
The sullen obstinacy of his face relaxed .
`` Well , '' he mutter finally , `` I be just desperate , that 's why .
I 've never do anything real bad in my life before , but people have always be down on me .
I 'm blame for everything , and nobody want anything to do with me .
I 'm willing to work , but I ca n't get a thing to do .
I 'm in rag and I have n't a cent , and winter 's come on .
I hear you tell Mrs. Galloway yesterday about the money .
I be behind the fir hedge and you do n't see me .
I go away and plan it all out .
I 'd get in some way -- and I mean to use the money to get away out west a far from here a I could , and begin life there , where nobody know me , and where I 'd have some sort of a chance .
I 've never have any here .
You can put me in jail now , if you like -- they 'll fee and clothe me there , anyhow , and I 'll be on a level with the rest . ''
The boy have blurt it all out sullenly and half-chokingly .
A world of rebellion and protest against the fate that have always drag him down be couch in his voice .
Miss Calista draw Dapple to a standstill before her gate .
`` I 'm not go to send you to jail , Chester .
I believe you 've tell me the truth .
Yesterday you want me to give you Caleb 's place and I refuse .
Well , I offer it to you now .
If you 'll come , I 'll hire you , and give you a good wage a I give him . ''
Ches Maybin look incredulous .
`` Miss Calista , you ca n't mean it . ''
`` I do mean it , every word .
You say you have never have a chance .
Well , I be go to give you one -- a chance to get on the right road and make a man of yourself .
Nobody shall ever know about last night 's doings from me , and I 'll make it my business to forget them if you deserve it .
What do you say ? ''
Ches lift his head and look her squarely in the face .
`` I 'll come , '' he say huskily .
`` It ai n't no use to try and thank you , Miss Calista .
But I 'll live my thanks . ''
And he do .
The good people of Cooperstown hold up their hand in horror when they hear that Miss Calista have hire Ches Maybin , and prophesy that the deluded woman would live to repent her rash step .
But not all prophecy come true .
Miss Calista smile serenely and keep on her own misguided way .
And Ches Maybin prove so efficient and steady that the arrangement be continue , and in due time people outlive their old suspicion and come to regard him a a thoroughly smart and trustworthy young man .
`` Miss Calista have make a man of Ches Maybin , '' say the oracle .
`` He ought to be very grateful to her . ''
And he be .
But only he and Miss Calista and the peppermint bottle ever know the precise extent of his gratitude , and they never tell .
The Jest That Failed `` I think it be simply a disgrace to have a person like that in our class , '' say Edna Hayden in an injured tone .
`` And she do n't seem a bit ashamed of it , either , '' say Agnes Walters .
`` Rather proud of it , I should say , '' return her roommate , spitefully .
`` It seem to me that if I be so poor that I have to ` room ' myself and dress as dowdily a she do that I really could n't look anybody in the face .
What must the boy think of her ?
And if it be n't for her be in it , our class would be the smart and dressy in the college -- even those top-lofty senior girl admit that . ''
`` It 's a shame , '' say Agnes , conclusively .
`` But she need n't expect to associate with our set .
I , for one , wo n't have anything to do with her . ''
`` Nor I. I think it be time she should be teach her place .
If we could only manage to inflict some decided snub on her , she might take the hint and give up try to poke herself in where she do n't belong .
The idea of her consenting to be elect on the freshman executive !
But she seem impervious to snub . ''
`` Edna , let 's play a joke on her .
It will serve her right .
Let u send an invitation in somebody 's name to the senior ` prom . ' ''
`` The very thing !
And sign Sidney Hill 's name to it .
He 's the handsomest and rich fellow at Payzant , and belongs to one of the best family in town , and he 's awfully fastidious besides .
No doubt she will feel immensely flatter and , of course , she 'll accept .
Just think how silly she 'll feel when she find out he never send it .
Let 's write it now , and send it at once .
There be no time to lose , for the ` prom ' be on Thursday night . ''
The freshmen co-ed at Payzant College do not like Grace Seeley -- that be to say , the majority of them .
They be a decidedly snobbish class that year .
No one could deny that Grace be clever , but she be poor , dressed very plainly -- `` dowdily , '' the girl say -- and `` room '' herself , that phrase meaning that she rent a little unfurnished room and cook her own meal over an oil stove .
The `` senior prom , '' a it be call , be the annual reception which the senior class give in the middle of every autumn term .
It be the smart and gay of all the college function , and a Payzant co-ed who receive an invitation to it count herself fortunate .
The senior girl be include a a matter of course , but a junior , soph , or freshie could not go unless one of the senior boy invite her .
Grace Seeley be study Greek in her tiny room that afternoon when the invitation be bring to her .
It be scrupulously orthodox in appearance and form , and Grace never doubt that it be genuine , although she felt much surprise that Sidney Hill , the leader of his class and the foremost figure in all college sport and society , should have ask her to go with him to the senior prom .
But she be girlishly please at the prospect .
She be a fond of a good time a any other girl , and she have secretly wish very much that she could go to the brilliant and much talk about senior prom .
Grace be quite unaware of her own unpopularity among her class co-ed , although she think it be very hard to get acquaint with them .
Without any false pride herself , and of a frank , independent nature , it never occur to her that the other Payzant freshies could look down on her because she be poor , or resent her presence among them because she dress plainly .
She straightway write a note of acceptance to Sidney Hill , and that young man naturally felt much mystify when he open and read it in the college library next morning .
`` Grace Seeley , '' he ponder .
`` That 's the jolly girl with the brown eye that I meet at the philomathic the other night .
She thank me for my invitation to the senior prom , and accepts with pleasure .
Why , I certainly never invite her or anyone else to go with me to the senior prom .
There must be some mistake . ''
Grace pass him at this moment on her way to the Latin classroom .
She bow and smile in a friendly fashion and Sidney Hill felt decidedly uncomfortable .
What be he to do ?
He do not like to think of put Miss Seeley in a false position because somebody have send her an invitation in his name .
`` I suppose it be some cad who have a spite at me that have do it , '' he reflect , `` but if so I 'll spoil his game .
I 'll take Miss Seeley to the prom a if I have never intend do anything else .
She sha n't be humiliate just because there be someone at Payzant who would stoop to that sort of thing . ''
So he walk up the hall with Grace and express his pleasure at her acceptance , and on the evening of the prom he send her a bouquet of white carnation , whose spicy fragrance remind her of her own little garden at home .
Grace think it extremely nice of him , and dress in a flutter of pleasant anticipation .
Her gown be a very simple one of sheer white organdie , and be the only evening dress she have .
She know there would be many smart dress at the reception , but the knowledge do not disturb her sensible head in the least .
She finger the dainty white frill lovingly a she remember the sunny summer day at home in the little sewing-room , where cherry boughs poke their blossom in at the window , when her mother and sister have help her to make it , with laugh prophesies and speculation a to it first appearance .
Into seam and puff and frill many girlish hope and dream have be sew , and they all come back to Grace a she put it on , and help to surround her with an atmosphere of happiness .
When she be ready she pick up her bouquet and look herself over in the mirror , from the top of her curly head to the tip of her white shoe , with a little nod of satisfaction .
Grace be not exactly pretty , but she have such a bright , happy face and such merry brown eye and such a friendly smile that she be very pleasant to look upon , and a great many people think so that night .
Grace have never in all her life before have so good a time a she have at that senior prom .
The senior be quick to discover her unaffected originality and charm , and everywhere she go she be the centre of a merry group .
In short , Grace , as much to her own surprise a anyone 's , find herself a social success .
Presently Sidney bring his brother up to be introduce , and the latter say : `` Miss Seeley , will you excuse my ask if you have a brother or any relative name Max Seeley ? ''
Grace nod .
`` Oh , yes , my brother Max .
He be a doctor out west . ''
`` I be sure of it , '' say Murray Hill triumphantly .
`` You resemble him so strongly .
Please do n't consider me a a stranger a minute long , for Max and I be like brother .
Indeed , I owe my life to him .
Last summer I be out there on a surveying expedition , and I take typhoid in a little out-of-the-way place where good nursing be not to be have for love or money .
Your brother attend me and he manage to pull me through .
He never leave me day or night until I be out of danger , and he work like a Trojan for me . ''
`` Dear old Max , '' say Grace , her brown eye shin with pride and pleasure .
`` That be so like him .
He be such a dear brother and I have n't see him for four year .
To see somebody who know him so well be next best thing to see himself . ''
`` He be an awfully fine fellow , '' say Mr. Hill heartily , `` and I 'm delighted to have meet the ` little sister ' he use to talk so much about .
I want you to come ever and meet my mother and sister .
They have hear me talk so much about Max that they think almost a much of him a I do , and they will be glad to meet his sister . ''
Mrs. Hill , a handsome , dignify lady who be one of the chaperone of the prom , receive Grace warmly , while Beatrice Hill , an extremely pretty , smartly gown girl , make her feel at home immediately .
`` You come with Sid , do n't you ? ''
she whisper .
`` Sid be so sly -- he never tell u whom he be go to take anywhere .
But when I saw you come in with him I know I be go to like you , you look so jolly .
And you 're really the sister of that splendid Dr. Seeley who save Murray 's life last summer ?
And to think you 've be at Payzant nearly a whole term and we never know it ! ''
`` Well , how have you enjoy our prom , Miss Seeley ? ''
ask Sid , a they walk home together under the arch elm of the college campus .
`` Oh !
it be splendid , '' say Grace enthusiastically .
`` Everybody be so nice .
And then to meet someone who could tell me so much about Max !
I must write them home all about it before I sleep , just to calm my head a bit .
Mother and the girl will be so interested , and I must send Lou and Mab a carnation apiece for their scrapbook . ''
`` Give me one back , please , '' say Sid .
And Grace with a little blush , do so .
That night , while Grace be slip the stem of her carnation and put them into water , three little bit of conversation be be carry on which it be necessary to report in order to round up this story neatly and properly , a all story should be round up .
In the first place , Beatrice Hill be say to Sidney , `` Oh , Sid , that Miss Seeley you have at the prom be a lovely girl .
I do n't know when I 've meet anyone I like so much .
She be so jolly and friendly and she do n't put on learned air at all , a so many of those Payzant girl do .
I ask her all about herself and she tell me , and all about her mother and sister and home and the lovely time they have together , and how hard they work to send her to college too , and how she teach school in vacation and ` room ' herself to help along .
Is n't it so brave and plucky of her !
I know we be go to be great friend . ''
`` I hope so , '' say Sidney briefly , `` because I have an idea that she and I be go to be very good friend too . ''
And Sidney go upstairs and put away a single white carnation very carefully .
In the second place , Mrs. Hill be say to her eldest son , `` I like that Miss Seeley very much .
She seem a very sweet girl . ''
And , finally , Agnes Walters and Edna Hayden be discuss the matter in great mystification in their room .
`` I ca n't understand it at all , '' say Agnes slowly .
`` Sid Hill take her to the prom and he must have send her those carnation too .
She could never have afford them herself .
And do you see the fuss his people make over her ?
I hear Beatrice tell her that she be come to call on her tomorrow , and Mrs. Hill say she must look upon ` Beechlawn ' a her second home while she be at Payzant .
If the Hills be go to take her up we 'll have to be nice to her . ''
`` I suppose , '' say Edna conclusively , `` the truth of the matter be that Sid Hill mean to ask her anyway .
I dare say he ask her long ago , and she would know our invitation be a fraud .
So the joke be on ourselves , after all . ''
But , a you and I know , that , with the exception of the last sentence , be not the truth of the matter at all .
The Penningtons ' Girl Winslow have be fish -- or pretend to -- all the morning , and he be desperately thirsty .
He board with the Beckwiths on the Riverside East Shore , but he be near Riverside West , and he know the Penningtons well .
He have often be there for bait and milk and have listen time out of mind to Mrs. Pennington 's dismal tale of her tribulation with hired girl .
She never could get along with them , and they leave , on an average , after a fortnight 's trial .
She be on the lookout for one now , he know , and would likely be cross , but he think she would give him a drink .
He row his skiff into the shore and tie it to a fir that hang out from the bank .
A winding little footpath lead up to the Pennington farmhouse , which crest the hill about three hundred yard from the shore .
Winslow make for the kitchen door and come face to face with a girl carry a pail of water -- Mrs. Pennington 's late thing in hired girl , of course .
Winslow 's first bewilder thought be `` What a goddess ! ''
and he wonder , a he politely ask for a drink , where on earth Mrs. Pennington have pick her up .
She hand him a shin dipper half full and stand , pail in hand , while he drink it .
She be rather tall , and wear a somewhat limp , fade print gown , and a big sunhat , beneath which a glossy knot of chestnut show itself .
Her skin be very fair , somewhat freckle , and her mouth be delicious .
As for her eye , they be grey , but beyond that simply defied description .
`` Will you have some more ? ''
she ask in a soft , drawling voice .
`` No , thank you .
That be delicious .
Is Mrs. Pennington home ? ''
`` No .
She have go away for the day . ''
`` Well , I suppose I can sit down here and rest a while .
You 've no serious objection , have you ? ''
`` Oh , no . ''
She carry her pail into the kitchen and come out again presently with a knife and a pan of apple .
Sitting down on a bench under the poplar she proceed to peel them with a disregard of his presence that pique Winslow , who be not use to be ignore in this fashion .
Besides , a a general rule , he have be quite good friend with Mrs. Pennington 's hired girl .
She have have three strap damsel during his sojourn in Riverside , and he use to sit on this very doorstep and chaff them .
They have all be saucy and talkative .
This girl be evidently a new specie .
`` Do you think you 'll get along with Mrs. Pennington ? ''
he ask finally .
`` As a rule she fight with her help , although she be a most estimable woman . ''
The girl smile quite broadly .
`` I guess p ` r ` aps she 's rather hard to suit , '' be the answer , `` but I like her pretty well so far .
I think we 'll get along with each other .
If we do n't I can leave -- like the others do . ''
`` What be your name ? ''
`` Nelly Ray . ''
`` Well , Nelly , I hope you 'll be able to keep your place .
Let me give you a bit of friendly advice .
Do n't let the cat get into the pantry .
That be what Mrs. Pennington have quarrel with nearly every one of her girl about . ''
`` It be quite a bother to keep them out , ai n't it ? ''
say Nelly calmly .
`` There 's dozen of cat about the place .
What on earth make them keep so many ? ''
`` Mr. Pennington have a mania for cat .
He and Mrs. Pennington have a standing disagreement about it .
The last girl leave here because she could n't stand the cat ; they affect her nerve , she say .
I hope you do n't mind them . ''
`` Oh , no ; I kind of like cat .
I 've be tryin ' to count them .
Has anyone ever do that ? ''
`` Not that I know of .
I try but I have to give up in despair -- never could tell when I be count the same cat over again .
Look at that black goblin sun himself on the woodpile .
I say , Nelly , you 're not go , be you ? ''
`` I must .
It 's time to get dinner .
Mr. Pennington will be in from the field soon . ''
The next minute he hear her step briskly about the kitchen , shoo out intrude cat , and hum a darky air to herself .
He go reluctantly back to the shore and row across the river in a brown study .
I do n't know whether Winslow be afflict with chronic thirst or not , or whether the East side water be n't so good a that of the West side ; but I do know that he fairly haunt the Pennington farmhouse after that .
Mrs. Pennington be home the next time he go , and he ask her about her new girl .
To his surprise the good lady be unusually reticent .
She could n't really say very much about Nelly .
No , she do n't belong anywhere near Riverside .
In fact , she -- Mrs. Pennington -- do n't think she have any settle home at present .
Her father be travel over the country somewhere .
Nelly be a good little girl , and very obliging .
Beyond this Winslow could get no more information , so he go around and talk to Nelly , who be sit on the bench under the poplar and seem absorb in watch the sunset .
She drop her g 's badly and make some grammatical error that cause Winslow 's flesh to creep on his bone .
But any man could have forgive mistake from such dimple lip in such a sweet voice .
He ask her to go for a row up the river in the twilight and she assent ; she handle an oar very well , he find out , and the exercise become her .
Winslow try to get her to talk about herself , but fail signally and have to content himself with Mrs. Pennington 's meagre information .
He tell her about himself frankly enough -- how he have have fever in the spring and have be order to spend the summer in the country and do nothing useful until his health be fully restore , and how lonesome it be in Riverside in general and at the Beckwith farm in particular .
He make out quite a dismal case for himself and if Nelly be n't sorry for him , she should have be .
* * * * * At the end of a fortnight Riverside folk begin to talk about Winslow and the Penningtons ' hire girl .
He be report to be `` dead go '' on her ; he take her out row every evening , drive her to preach up the Bend on Sunday night , and haunt the Pennington farmhouse .
Wise folk shake their head over it and wonder that Mrs. Pennington allow it .
Winslow be a gentleman , and that Nelly Ray , whom nobody know anything about , not even where she come from , be only a common hired girl , and he have no business to be hang about her .
She be pretty , to be sure ; but she be absurdly stuck-up and would n't associate with other Riverside `` help '' at all .
Well , pride must have a fall ; there must be something queer about her when she be so awful sly a to her past life .
Winslow and Nelly do not trouble themselves in the least over all this gossip ; in fact , they never even hear it .
Winslow be hopelessly in love , when he find this out he be aghast .
He think of his father , the ambitious railroad magnate ; of his mother , the brilliant society leader ; of his sister , the beautiful and proud ; he be honestly frighten .
It would never do ; he must not go to see Nelly again .
He keep this prudent resolution for twenty-four hour and then row over to the West shore .
He find Nelly sit on the bank in her old faded print dress and he straightway forget everything he ought to have remember .
Nelly herself never seem to be conscious of the social gulf between them .
At least she never allude to it in any way , and accept Winslow 's attention a if she have a perfect right to them .
She have break the record by stay with Mrs. Pennington four week , and even the cat be in subjection .
Winslow be well enough to have go back to the city and , in fact , his father be write for him .
But he could n't leave Beckwiths ' , apparently .
At any rate he stay on and meet Nelly every day and curse himself for a cad and a cur and a weak-brained idiot .
One day he take Nelly for a row up the river .
They go further than usual around the Bend .
Winslow do n't want to go too far , for he know that a party of his city friend , chaperon by Mrs. Keyton-Wells , be have a picnic somewhere up along the river shore that day .
But Nelly insist on go on and on , and of course she have her way .
When they reach a little pine-fringed headland they come upon the picnicker , within a stone 's throw .
Everybody recognize Winslow .
`` Why , there be Burton ! ''
he hear Mrs. Keyton-Wells exclaim , and he know she be put up her glass .
Will Evans , who be an especial chum of his , run down to the water 's edge .
`` Bless me , Win , where do you come from ?
Come right in .
We have n't have tea yet .
Bring your friend too , '' he add , become conscious that Winslow 's friend be a mighty pretty girl .
Winslow 's face be crimson .
He avoid Nelly 's eye .
`` Are them people friend of yours ? ''
she ask in a low tone .
`` Yes , '' he mutter .
`` Well , let u go ashore if they want u to , '' she say calmly .
`` I do n't mind . ''
For three second Winslow hesitate .
Then he pull ashore and help Nelly to alight on a jutting rock .
There be a curious , set expression about his fine mouth a he march Nelly up to Mrs. Keyton-Wells and introduce her .
Mrs. Keyton-Wells 's greeting be slightly cool , but very polite .
She suppose Miss Ray be some little country girl with whom Burton Winslow be carry on a summer flirtation ; respectable enough , no doubt , and must be treat civilly , but of course would n't expect to be make an equal of exactly .
The other woman take their cue from her , but the men be more cordial .
Miss Ray might be shabby , but she be distinctly fetching , and Winslow look savage .
Nelly be not a whit abash , seemingly , by the fashionable circle in which she find herself , and she talk away to Will Evans and the others in her soft drawl a if she have know them all her life .
All might have go passably well , have not a little Riverside imp , by name of Rufus Hent , who have be pick up by the picnicker to run their errand , come up just then with a pail of water .
`` Golly ! ''
he ejaculate in very audible tone .
`` If there ai n't Mrs. Pennington 's hired girl ! ''
Mrs. Keyton-Wells stiffen with horror .
Winslow dart a furious glance at the tell-tale that would have annihilate anything except a small boy .
Will Evans grin and go on talk to Nelly , who have fail to hear , or at least to heed , the exclamation .
The mischief be do , the social thermometer go down to zero in Nelly 's neighbourhood .
The woman ignore her altogether .
Winslow set his teeth together and register a mental vow to wring Rufus Hent 's sunburned neck at the first opportunity .
He escort Nelly to the table and wait on her with ostentatious deference , while Mrs. Keyton-Wells glance at him stonily and make up her mind to tell his mother when she go home .
Nelly 's social ostracism do not affect her appetite .
But after lunch be over , she walk down to the skiff .
Winslow follow her .
`` Do you want to go home ? ''
he ask .
`` Yes , it 's time I go , for the cat may be raidin ' the pantry .
But you must not come ; your friend here want you . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Winslow sulkily .
`` If you be go I be too . ''
But Nelly be too quick for him ; she spring into the skiff , unwound the rope , and push off before he guess her intention .
`` I can row myself home and I mean to , '' she announce , take up the oar defiantly .
`` Nelly , '' he implore .
Nelly look at him wickedly .
`` You 'd better go back to your friend .
That old woman with the eyeglass be watchin ' you . ''
Winslow say something strong under his breath a he go back to the others .
Will Evans and his chum begin to chaff him about Nelly , but he look so dangerous that they conclude to stop .
There be no deny that Winslow be in a fearful temper just then with Mrs. Keyton-Wells , Evans , himself , Nelly -- in fact , with all the world .
His friend drive him home in the evening on their way to the station and drop him at the Beckwith farm .
At dusk he go moodily down to the shore .
Far up the Bend be dim and shadowy and star be shin above the wooded shore .
Over the river the Pennington farmhouse light twinkle out alluringly .
Winslow watch them until he could stand it no longer .
Nelly have make off with his skiff , but Perry Beckwith 's dory be ready to hand .
In five minute , Winslow be ground her on the West shore .
Nelly be sit on a rock at the landing place .
He go over and sit down silently beside her .
A full moon be rise above the dark hill up the Bend and in the faint light the girl be wonderfully lovely .
`` I think you be n't comin ' over at all tonight , '' she say , smile up at him , `` and I be sorry , because I want to say goodbye to you . ''
`` Goodbye ?
Nelly , you 're not go away ? ''
`` Yes .
The cat be in the pantry when I get home . ''
`` Nelly ! ''
`` Well , to be serious .
I 'm not goin ' for that , but I really be goin ' .
I have a letter from Dad this evenin ' .
Did you have a good time after I leave this afternoon ?
Did Mrs. Keyton-Wells thaw out ? ''
`` Hang Mrs. Keyton-Wells !
Nelly , where be you go ? ''
`` To Dad , of course .
We use to live down south together , but two month ago we break up housekeepin ' and come north .
We think we could do good up here , you know .
Dad start out to look for a place to settle down and I come here while he be prospectin ' .
He 's get a house now , he say , and want me to go right off .
I 'm goin ' tomorrow . ''
`` Nelly , you must n't go -- you must n't , I tell you , '' exclaim Winslow in despair .
`` I love you -- I love you -- you must stay with me forever . ''
`` You do n't know what you 're sayin ' , Mr. Winslow , '' say Nelly coldly .
`` Why , you ca n't marry me -- a common servant girl . ''
`` I can and I will , if you 'll have me , '' answer Winslow recklessly .
`` I ca n't ever let you go .
I 've love you ever since I first saw you .
Nelly , wo n't you be my wife ?
Do n't you love me ? ''
`` Well , yes , I do , '' confess Nelly suddenly ; and then it be fully five minute before Winslow give her a chance to say anything else .
`` Oh , what will your people say ? ''
she contrive to ask at last .
`` Wo n't they be in a dreadful state ?
Oh , it will never do for you to marry me . ''
`` Wo n't it ? ''
say Winslow in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I rather think it will .
Of course , my family will rampage a bit at first .
I daresay Father 'll turn me out .
Do n't worry over that , Nelly .
I 'm not afraid of work .
I 'm not afraid of anything except lose you . ''
`` You 'll have to see what Dad say , '' remark Nelly , after another eloquent interlude .
`` He wo n't object , will he ?
I 'll write to him or go and see him .
Where be he ? ''
`` He be in town at the Arlington . ''
`` The Arlington ! ''
Winslow be amaze .
The Arlington be the most exclusive and expensive hotel in town .
`` What be he do there ? ''
`` Transacting a real estate or railroad deal with your father , I believe , or something of that sort . ''
`` Nelly ! ''
`` Well ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` Just what I say . ''
Winslow get up and look at her .
`` Nelly , who be you ? ''
`` Helen Ray Scott , at your service , sir . ''
`` Not Helen Ray Scott , the daughter of the railroad king ? ''
`` The same .
Are you sorry that you 're engage to her ?
If you be , she 'll stay Nelly Ray . ''
Winslow drop back on the seat with a long breath .
`` Nelly , I do n't understand .
Why do you deceive me ?
I feel stun . ''
`` Oh , do forgive me , '' she say merrily .
`` I should n't have , I suppose -- but you know you take me for the hired girl the very first time you saw me , and you patronize me and call me Nelly ; so I let you think so just for fun .
I never think it would come to this .
When Father and I come north I take a fancy to come here and stay with Mrs. Pennington -- who be an old nurse of mine -- until Father decide where to take up our abode .
I get here the night before we meet .
My trunk be delay so I put on an old cotton dress her niece have leave here -- and you come and saw me .
I make Mrs. Pennington keep the secret -- she think it great fun ; and I really be a great hand to do little chore and keep the cat in subjection too .
I make mistake in grammar and drop my g 's on purpose -- it be such fun to see you wince when I do it .
It be cruel to tease you so , I suppose , but it be so sweet just to be love for myself -- not because I be an heiress and a belle -- I could n't bear to tell you the truth .
Did you think I could n't read your thought this afternoon , when I insist on go ashore ?
You be a little ashamed of me -- you know you be .
I do n't blame you for that , but if you have n't go ashore and take me a you do I would never have speak to you again .
Mrs. Keyton-Wells wo n't snub me next time we meet .
And some way I do n't think your father will turn you out , either .
Have you forgive me yet , Burton ? ''
`` I shall never call you anything but Nelly , '' say Winslow irrelevantly .
The Red Room You would have me tell you the story , Grandchild ?
'T be a sad one and best forgotten -- few remember it now .
There be always sad and dark story in old family such a ours .
Yet I have promise and must keep my word .
So sit down here at my foot and rest your bright head on my lap , that I may not see in your young eye the shadow my story will bring across their bonny blue .
I be a mere child when it all happen , yet I remember it but too well , and I can recall how pleased I be when my father 's stepmother , Mrs. Montressor -- she not like to be call grandmother , see she be but turn of fifty and a handsome woman still -- write to my mother that she must send little Beatrice up to Montressor Place for the Christmas holiday .
So I go joyfully though my mother grieve to part with me ; she have little to love save me , my father , Conrad Montressor , have be lose at sea when but three month wed. .
My aunt be wont to tell me how much I resemble him , be , so they say , a Montressor to the backbone ; and this I take to mean commendation , for the Montressors be a well-descended and well-thought-of family , and the woman be note for their beauty .
This I could well believe , since of all my aunt there be not one but be count a pretty woman .
Therefore I take heart of grace when I think of my dark face and spindling shape , hop that when I should be grow up I might be count not unworthy of my race .
The Place be an old-fashioned , mysterious house , such a I delight in , and Mrs. Montressor be ever kind to me , albeit a little stern , for she be a proud woman and care but little for child , have none of her own .
But there be book there to pore over without let or hindrance -- for nobody question of my whereabouts if I but keep out of the way -- and strange , dim family portrait on the wall to gaze upon , until I know each proud old face well , and have visioned a history for it in my own mind -- for I be give to dream and be old and wise than my year , have no childish companion to keep me still a child .
There be always some of my aunt at the Place to kiss and make much of me for my father 's sake -- for he have be their favourite brother .
My aunt -- there be eight of them -- have all marry well , so say people who know , and live not far away , come home often to take tea with Mrs. Montressor , who have always get on well with her step-daughters , or to help prepare for some festivity or other -- for they be notable housekeeper , every one .
They be all at Montressor Place for Christmas , and I get more petting than I deserve , albeit they look after me somewhat more strictly than do Mrs. Montressor , and saw to it that I do not read too many fairy tale or sit up later at night than become my year .
But it be not for fairy tale and sugarplum nor yet for pet that I rejoice to be at the Place at that time .
Though I speak not of it to anyone , I have a great longing to see my Uncle Hugh 's wife , concern whom I have hear much , both good and bad .
My Uncle Hugh , albeit the old of the family , have never marry until now , and all the countryside rang with talk of his young wife .
I do not hear as much a I wish , for the gossip take heed to my presence when I draw anear and turn to other matter .
Yet , be somewhat keener of comprehension than they know , I hear and understand not a little of their talk .
And so I come to know that neither proud Mrs. Montressor nor my good aunt , nor even my gentle mother , look with overmuch favour on what my Uncle Hugh have do .
And I do hear that Mrs. Montressor have choose a wife for her stepson , of good family and some beauty , but that my Uncle Hugh would have none of her -- a thing Mrs. Montressor find hard to pardon , yet might so have do have not my uncle , on his last voyage to the Indies -- for he go often in his own vessel -- marry and bring home a foreign bride , of whom no one know aught save that her beauty be a thing to dazzle the day and that she be of some strange alien blood such a ran not in the blue vein of the Montressors .
Some have much to say of her pride and insolence , and wonder if Mrs. Montressor would tamely yield her mistress-ship to the stranger .
But others , who be take with her loveliness and grace , say that the tale tell be bear of envy and malice , and that Alicia Montressor be well worthy of her name and station .
So I halt between two opinion and think to judge for myself , but when I go to the Place my Uncle Hugh and his bride be go for a time , and I have even to swallow my disappointment and bide their return with all my small patience .
But my aunt and their stepmother talk much of Alicia , and they speak slightingly of her , say that she be but a light woman and that no good would come of my Uncle Hugh 's have wed her , with other thing of a like nature .
Also they speak of the company she gather around her , think her to have strange and unbecoming companion for a Montressor .
All this I hear and ponder much over , although my good aunt suppose that such a chit a I would take no heed to their whispering .
When I be not with them , help to whip egg and stone raisin , and be watch to see that I eat not more than one out of five , I be surely to be find in the wing hall , pore over my book and grieving that I be no more allowed to go into the Red Room .
The wing hall be a narrow one and dim , connect the main room of the Place with an old wing , build in a curious way .
The hall be light by small , square-paned window , and at it end a little flight of step lead up to the Red Room .
Whenever I have be at the Place before -- and this be often -- I have pass much of my time in this same Red Room .
It be Mrs. Montressor 's sitting-room then , where she write her letter and examine household account , and sometimes have an old gossip in to tea .
The room be low-ceilinged and dim , hung with red damask , and with odd , square window high up under the eaves and a dark wainscoting all around it .
And there I love to sit quietly on the red sofa and read my fairy tale , or talk dreamily to the swallow flutter crazily against the tiny pane .
When I have go this Christmas to the Place I soon bethink myself of the Red Room -- for I have a great love for it .
But I have get no far than the step when Mrs. Montressor come sweep down the hall in haste and , catch me by the arm , pull me back as roughly a if it have be Bluebeard 's chamber itself into which I be venture .
Then , see my face , which I doubt not be startle enough , she seem to repent of her haste and pat me gently on the head .
`` There , there , little Beatrice !
Did I frighten you , child ?
Forgive an old woman 's thoughtlessness .
But be not too ready to go where you be not bidden , and never venture foot in the Red Room now , for it belong to your Uncle Hugh 's wife , and let me tell you she be not over fond of intruder . ''
I felt sorry overmuch to hear this , nor could I see why my new aunt should care if I go in once in a while , a have be my habit , to talk to the swallow and misplace nothing .
But Mrs. Montressor saw to it that I obey her , and I go no more to the Red Room , but busy myself with other matter .
For there be great doings at the Place and much come and go .
My aunt be never idle ; there be to be much festivity Christmas week and a ball on Christmas Eve .
And my aunt have promise me -- though not till I have weary them of my coaxing -- that I should stay up that night and see as much of the gaiety a be good for me .
So I do their errand and go early to bed every night without complaint -- though I do this the more readily for that , when they think me safely asleep , they would come in and talk around my bedroom fire , say that of Alicia which I should not have hear .
At last come the day when my Uncle Hugh and his wife be expect home -- though not until my scanty patience be well nigh weary out -- and we be all assemble to meet them in the great hall , where a ruddy firelight be gleam .
My Aunt Frances have dress me in my best white frock and my crimson sash , with much lamenting over my skinny neck and arm , and bid me behave prettily , a become my bring up .
So I slip in a corner , my hand and foot cold with excitement , for I think every drop of blood in my body have go to my head , and my heart beat so hardly that it even pain me .
Then the door open and Alicia -- for so I be use to hear her call , nor do I ever think of her a my aunt in my own mind -- come in , and a little in the rear my tall , dark uncle .
She come proudly forward to the fire and stand there superbly while she loosen her cloak , nor do she see me at all at first , but nod , a little disdainfully , it seem , to Mrs. Montressor and my aunt , who be group about the drawing-room door , very ladylike and quiet .
But I neither saw nor heard aught at the time save her only , for her beauty , when she come forth from her crimson cloak and hood , be something so wonderful that I forget my manner and star at her a one fascinate -- a indeed I be , for never have I see such loveliness and hardly dream it .
Pretty woman I have see in plenty , for my aunt and my mother be count fair , but my uncle 's wife be as little like to them a a sunset glow to pale moonshine or a crimson rise to white day-lilies .
Nor can I paint her to you in word a I saw her then , with the long tongue of firelight lick her white neck and wavering over the rich mass of her red-gold hair .
She be tall -- so tall that my aunt look but insignificant beside her , and they be of no mean height , a become their race ; yet no queen could have carry herself more royally , and all the passion and fire of her foreign nature burn in her splendid eye , that might have be dark or light for aught that I could ever tell , but which seem always like pool of warm flame , now tender , now fierce .
Her skin be like a delicate white rise leaf , and when she speak I tell my foolish self that never have I hear music before ; nor do I ever again think to hear a voice so sweet , so liquid , a that which ripple over her ripe lip .
I have often in my own mind picture this , my first meeting with Alicia , now in one way , now in another , but never have I dream of her speaking to me at all , so that it come to me a a great surprise when she turn and , hold out her lovely hand , say very graciously : `` And be this the little Beatrice ?
I have hear much of you -- come , kiss me , child . ''
And I go , despite my Aunt Elizabeth 's black frown , for the glamour of her loveliness be upon me , and I no longer wonder that my Uncle Hugh should have love her .
Very proud of her be he too ; yet I felt , rather than saw -- for I be sensitive and quick of perception , a old-young child ever be -- that there be something other than pride and love in his face when he look on her , and more in his manner than the fond lover -- a it be , a sort of lurk mistrust .
Nor could I think , though to me the thought seem a treason , that she love her husband overmuch , for she seem half condescending and half disdainful to him ; yet one thought not of this in her presence , but only remember it when she have go .
When she go out it seem to me that nothing be leave , so I creep lonesomely away to the wing hall and sit down by a window to dream of her ; and she fill my thought so fully that it be no surprise when I raise my eye and saw her come down the hall alone , her bright head shin against the dark old wall .
When she pause by me and ask me lightly of what I be dream , since I have such a sober face , I answer her truly that it be of her -- whereat she laugh , a one not ill pleased , and say half mockingly : `` Waste not your thought so , little Beatrice .
But come with me , child , if you will , for I have take a strange fancy to your solemn eye .
Perchance the warmth of your young life may thaw out the ice that have freeze around my heart ever since I come among these cold Montressors . ''
And , though I understand not her meaning , I go , glad to see the Red Room once more .
So she make me sit down and talk to her , which I do , for shyness be no failing of mine ; and she ask me many question , and some that I think she should not have ask , but I could not answer them , so ` twere little harm .
After that I spend a part of every day with her in the Red Room .
And my Uncle Hugh be there often , and he would kiss her and praise her loveliness , not heed my presence -- for I be but a child .
Yet it ever seem to me that she endure rather than welcome his caress , and at time the ever-burning flame in her eye glow so luridly that a chill dread would creep over me , and I would remember what my Aunt Elizabeth have say , she be a bitter-tongued woman , though kind at heart -- that this strange creature would bring on u all some evil fortune yet .
Then would I strive to banish such thought and chide myself for doubt one so kind to me .
When Christmas Eve draw nigh my silly head be full of the ball day and night .
But a grievous disappointment befell me , for I awaken that day very ill with a most severe cold ; and though I bore me bravely , my aunt discover it soon , when , despite my piteous pleading , I be put to bed , where I cry bitterly and would not be comfort .
For I think I should not see the fine folk and , more than all , Alicia .
But that disappointment , at least , be spar me , for at night she come into my room , knowing of my longing -- she be ever indulgent to my little wish .
And when I saw her I forget my ache limb and burn brow , and even the ball I be not to see , for never be mortal creature so lovely a she , stand there by my bed .
Her gown be of white , and there be nothing I could liken the stuff to save moonshine fall athwart a frosted pane , and out from it swell her gleam breast and arm , so bare that it seem to me a shame to look upon them .
Yet it could not be deny they be of wondrous beauty , white a polished marble .
And all about her snowy throat and round arm , and in the mass of her splendid hair , be sparkle , gleam stone , with heart of pure light , which I know now to have be diamond , but know not then , for never have I see aught of their like .
And I gaze at her , drink in her beauty until my soul be fill , a she stand like some goddess before her worshipper .
I think she read my thought in my face and like it -- for she be a vain woman , and to such even the admiration of a child be sweet .
Then she lean down to me until her splendid eye look straight into my dazzled one .
`` Tell me , little Beatrice -- for they say the word of a child be to be believe -- tell me , do you think me beautiful ? ''
I find my voice and tell her truly that I think her beautiful beyond my dream of angel -- a indeed she be .
Whereat she smile a one well pleased .
Then my Uncle Hugh come in , and though I think that his face darken a he look on the naked splendour of her breast and arm , a if he like not that the eye of other men should gloat on it , yet he kiss her with all a lover 's fond pride , while she look at him half mockingly .
Then say he , `` Sweet , will you grant me a favour ? ''
And she answer , `` It may be that I will . ''
And he say , `` Do not dance with that man tonight , Alicia .
I mistrust him much . ''
His voice have more of a husband 's command than a lover 's entreaty .
She look at him with some scorn , but when she saw his face grow black -- for the Montressors brook scant disregard of their authority , a I have good reason to know -- she seem to change , and a smile come to her lip , though her eye glow balefully .
Then she lay her arm about his neck and -- though it seem to me that she have a soon strangle a embraced him -- her voice be wondrous sweet and caress a she murmur in his ear .
He laugh and his brow clear , though he say still sternly , `` Do not try me too far , Alicia . ''
Then they go out , she a little in advance and very stately .
After that my aunt also come in , very beautifully and modestly dress , but they seem to me a nothing after Alicia .
For I be catch in the snare of her beauty , and the longing to see her again so grow upon me that after a time I do an undutiful and disobedient thing .
I have be straitly charge to stay in bed , which I do not , but get up and put on a gown .
For it be in my mind to go quietly down , if by chance I might again see Alicia , myself unseen .
But when I reach the great hall I hear step approach and , have a guilty conscience , I slip aside into the blue parlour and hide me behind the curtain l my aunt should see me .
Then Alicia come in , and with her a man whom I have never before see .
Yet I instantly bethink myself of a lean black snake , with a glittering and evil eye , which I have see in Mrs. Montressor 's garden two summer agone , and which be like to have bite me .
John , the gardener , have kill it , and I verily think that if it have a soul , it must have get into this man .
Alicia sit down and he beside her , and when he have put his arm about her , he kiss her face and lip .
Nor do she shrink from his embrace , but even smile and lean near to him with a little smooth motion , a they talk to each other in some strange , foreign tongue .
I be but a child and innocent , nor know I aught of honour and dishonour .
Yet it seem to me that no man should kiss her save only my Uncle Hugh , and from that hour I mistrust Alicia , though I understand not then what I afterwards do .
And a I watch them -- not think of play the spy -- I saw her face grow suddenly cold , and she straighten herself up and push away her lover 's arm .
Then I follow her guilty eye to the door , where stood my Uncle Hugh , and all the pride and passion of the Montressors sit on his lowering brow .
Yet he come forward quietly a Alicia and the snake draw apart and stand up .
At first he look not at his guilty wife but at her lover , and smite him heavily in the face .
Whereat he , be a coward at heart , a be all villain , turn white and slunk from the room with a muttered oath , nor be he stay .
My uncle turn to Alicia , and very calmly and terribly he say , `` From this hour you be no longer wife of mine ! ''
And there be that in his tone which tell that his forgiveness and love should be hers nevermore .
Then he motion her out and she go , like a proud queen , with her glorious head erect and no shame on her brow .
As for me , when they be go I creep away , dazed and bewilder enough , and go back to my bed , have see and heard more than I have a mind for , a disobedient people and eavesdropper ever do .
But my Uncle Hugh keep his word , and Alicia be no more wife to him , save only in name .
Yet of gossip or scandal there be none , for the pride of his race keep secret his dishonour , nor do he ever seem other than a courteous and respectful husband .
Nor do Mrs. Montressor and my aunt , though they wonder much among themselves , learn aught , for they dare question neither their brother nor Alicia , who carry herself as loftily a ever , and seem to pine for neither lover nor husband .
As for me , no one dream I know aught of it , and I keep my own counsel a to what I have see in the blue parlour on the night of the Christmas ball .
After the New Year I go home , but ere long Mrs. Montressor send for me again , say that the house be lonely without little Beatrice .
So I go again and find all unchanged , though the Place be very quiet , and Alicia go out but little from the Red Room .
Of my Uncle Hugh I saw little , save when he go and come on the business of his estate , somewhat more gravely and silently than of yore , or bring to me book and sweetmeat from town .
But every day I be with Alicia in the Red Room , where she would talk to me , oftentimes wildly and strangely , but always kindly .
And though I think Mrs. Montressor like our intimacy none too well , she say no word , and I come and go a I list with Alicia , though never quite like her strange way and the restless fire in her eye .
Nor would I ever kiss her , after I have see her lip press by the snake 's , though she sometimes coax me , and grow pettish and vexed when I would not ; but she guess not my reason .
March come in that year like a lion , exceedingly hungry and fierce , and my Uncle Hugh have ride away through the storm nor think to be back for some day .
In the afternoon I be sit in the wing hall , dream wondrous day-dreams , when Alicia call me to the Red Room .
And a I go , I marvel anew at her loveliness , for the blood be leap in her face and her jewel be dim before the lustre of her eye .
Her hand , when she take mine , be burn hot , and her voice have a strange ring .
`` Come , little Beatrice , '' she say , `` come talk to me , for I know not what to do with my lone self today .
Time hang heavily in this gloomy house .
I do verily think this Red Room have an evil influence over me .
See if your childish prattle can drive away the ghost that riot in these dark old corner -- ghost of a ruin and sham life !
Nay , shrink not -- do I talk wildly ?
I mean not all I say -- my brain seem on fire , little Beatrice .
Come ; it may be you know some grim old legend of this room -- it must surely have one .
Never be place fitter for a dark deed !
Tush !
never be so frightened , child -- forget my vagary .
Tell me now and I will listen . ''
Whereat she cast herself lithely on the satin couch and turn her lovely face on me .
So I gather up my small wit and tell her what I be not suppose to know -- how that , generation agone , a Montressor have disgrace himself and his name , and that , when he come home to his mother , she have meet him in that same Red Room and flung at him taunt and reproach , forget whose breast have nourish him ; and that he , frantic with shame and despair , turn his sword against his own heart and so died .
But his mother go mad with her remorse , and be keep a prisoner in the Red Room until her death .
So lamely tell I the tale , a I have hear my Aunt Elizabeth tell it , when she know not I listen or understood .
Alicia hear me through and say nothing , save that it be a tale worthy of the Montressors .
Whereat I bridle , for I too be a Montressor , and proud of it .
But she take my hand soothingly in hers and say , `` Little Beatrice , if tomorrow or the next day they should tell you , those cold , proud woman , that Alicia be unworthy of your love , tell me , would you believe them ? ''
And I , remember what I have see in the blue parlour , be silent -- for I could not lie .
So she fling my hand away with a bitter laugh , and pick lightly from the table anear a small dagger with a jewelled handle .
It seem to me a cruel-looking toy and I say so -- whereat she smile and draw her white finger down the thin , shin blade in a fashion that make me cold .
`` Such a little blow with this , '' she say , `` such a little blow -- and the heart beat no longer , the weary brain rest , the lip and eye smile never again !
` Twere a short path out of all difficulty , my Beatrice . ''
And I , understand her not , yet shiver , beg her to cast it aside , which she do carelessly and , put a hand under my chin , she turn up my face to hers .
`` Little , grave-eyed Beatrice , tell me truly , would it grieve you much if you be never again to sit here with Alicia in this same Red Room ? ''
And I make answer earnestly that it would , glad that I could say so much truly .
Then her face grow tender and she sigh deeply .
Presently she open a quaint , inlaid box and take from it a shin gold chain of rare workmanship and exquisite design , and this she hang around my neck , nor would suffer me to thank her but lay her hand gently on my lip .
`` Now go , '' she say .
`` But ere you leave me , little Beatrice , grant me but the one favour -- it may be that I shall never ask another of you .
Your people , I know -- those cold Montressors -- care little for me , but with all my fault , I have ever be kind to you .
So , when the morrow 's come , and they tell you that Alicia be a one bad than dead , think not of me with scorn only but grant me a little pity -- for I be not always what I be now , and might never have become so have a little child like you be always anear me , to keep me pure and innocent .
And I would have you but the once lay your arm about my neck and kiss me . ''
And I do so , wonder much at her manner -- for it have in it a strange tenderness and some sort of hopeless longing .
Then she gently put me from the room , and I sit muse by the hall window until night fell darkly -- and a fearsome night it be , of storm and blackness .
And I think how well it be that my Uncle Hugh have not to return in such a tempest .
Yet , ere the thought have grow cold , the door open and he stride down the hall , his cloak drench and wind-twisted , in one hand a whip , a though he have but then sprung from his horse , in the other what seem like a crumpled letter .
Nor be the night blacker than his face , and he take no heed of me a I run after him , think selfishly of the sweetmeat he have promise to bring me -- but I think no more of them when I get to the door of the Red Room .
Alicia stood by the table , hood and cloak a for a journey , but her hood have slip back , and her face rise from it marble-white , save where her wrathful eye burn out , with dread and guilt and hatred in their depth , while she have one arm raise a if to thrust him back .
As for my uncle , he stand before her and I saw not his face , but his voice be low and terrible , speaking word I understand not then , though long afterwards I come to know their meaning .
And he cast foul scorn at her that she should have think to fly with her lover , and swear that naught should again thwart his vengeance , with other threat , wild and dreadful enough .
Yet she say no word until he have do , and then she speak , but what she say I know not , save that it be full of hatred and defiance and wild accusation , such a a mad woman might have utter .
And she defy him even then to stop her flight , though he tell her to cross that threshold would mean her death ; for he be a wronged and desperate man and thought of nothing save his own dishonour .
Then she make a if to pass him , but he catch her by her white wrist ; she turn on him with fury , and I saw her right hand reach stealthily out over the table behind her , where lay the dagger .
`` Let me go ! ''
she hiss .
And he say , `` I will not . ''
Then she turn herself about and strike at him with the dagger -- and never saw I such a face a be hers at the moment .
He fell heavily , yet hold her even in death , so that she have to wrench herself free , with a shriek that ring yet in my ear on a night when the wind wail over the rainy moor .
She rush past me unheeding , and flee down the hall like a hunted creature , and I hear the heavy door clang hollowly behind her .
As for me , I stand there look at the dead man , for I could neither move nor speak and be like to have die of horror .
And presently I know nothing , nor do I come to my recollection for many a day , when I lay abed , sick of a fever and more like to die than live .
So that when at last I come out from the shadow of death , my Uncle Hugh have be long cold in his grave , and the hue and cry for his guilty wife be well nigh over , since naught have be see or heard of her since she flee the country with her foreign lover .
When I come rightly to my remembrance , they question me a to what I have see and hear in the Red Room .
And I tell them a best I could , though much aggrieve that to my question they would answer nothing save to bid me to stay still and think not of the matter .
Then my mother , sorely vex over my adventure -- which in truth be but sorry one for a child -- take me home .
Nor would she let me keep Alicia 's chain , but make away with it , how I know not and little cared , for the sight of it be loathsome to me .
It be many year ere I go again to Montressor Place , and I never saw the Red Room more , for Mrs. Montressor have the old wing tear down , deem it sorrowful memory dark heritage enough for the next Montressor .
So , Grandchild , the sad tale be end , and you will not see the Red Room when you go next month to Montressor Place .
The swallow still build under the eaves , though -- I know not if you will understand their speech a I do .
The Setness of Theodosia When Theodosia Ford marry Wesley Brooke after a courtship of three year , everybody concern be satisfy .
There be nothing particularly romantic in either the courtship or marriage .
Wesley be a steady , well-meaning , rather slow fellow , comfortably off .
He be not at all handsome .
But Theodosia be a very pretty girl with the milky colouring of an auburn blonde and large china-blue eye .
She look mild and Madonna-like and be know to be sweet-tempered .
Wesley 's old brother , Irving Brooke , have marry a woman who keep him in hot water all the time , so Heatherton folk say , but they think there be no fear of that with Wesley and Theodosia .
They would get along together all right .
Only old Jim Parmelee shake his head and say , `` They might , and then again they might n't '' ; he know the stock they come of and it be a kind you could never predict about .
Wesley and Theodosia be third cousin ; this meant that old Henry Ford have be the great-great-grandfather of them both .
Jim Parmelee , who be ninety , have be a small boy when this remote ancestor be still alive .
`` I mind him well , '' say old Jim on the morning of Theodosia 's wedding day .
There be a little group about the blacksmith 's forge .
Old Jim be in the centre .
He be a fat , twinkling-eyed old man , fresh and ruddy in spite of his ninety year .
`` And , '' he go on , `` he be about the settest man you 'd ever see or want to see .
When old Henry Ford make up his mind on any p ` int a cyclone would n't turn him a hairsbreadth -- no , nor an earthquake neither .
Did n't matter a mite how much he suffer for it -- he 'd stick to it if it break his heart .
There be always some story or other go round about old Henry 's setness .
The family be n't quite so bad -- only Tom .
He be Dosia 's great-grandfather , and a regular chip of the old block .
Since then it 's crop out now and again all through the different branch of the family .
I mistrust if Dosia have n't get a spice of it , and Wes Brooke too , but mebbe not . ''
Old Jim be the only croaker .
Wesley and Theodosia be marry , in the golden prime of the Indian summer , and settle down on their snug little farm .
Dosia be a beautiful bride , and Wesley 's pride in her be amusingly apparent .
He think nothing too good for her , the Heatherton people say .
It be a sight to make an old heart young to see him march up the aisle of the church on Sunday in all the glossy splendour of his wedding suit , his curly black head hold high and his round boyish face shin with happiness , stop and turn proudly at his pew to show Theodosia in .
They always sit alone together in the big pew , and Alma Spencer , who sit behind them , declare that they hold each other 's hand all through the service .
This last until spring ; then come a sensation and scandal , such a decorous Heatherton have not know since the time Isaac Allen get drunk at Centreville Fair and come home and kick his wife .
One evening in early April Wesley come home from the store at `` the Corner , '' where he have linger to talk over politics and farm method with his crony .
This evening he be later than usual , and Theodosia have his supper keep warm for him .
She meet him on the porch and kiss him .
He kiss her in return , and hold her to him for a minute , with her bright head on his shoulder .
The frog be sing down in the south meadow swamp , and there be a splendour of silvery moonrise over the wooded Heatherton hill .
Theodosia always remember that moment .
When they go in , Wesley , full of excitement , begin to talk of what he have hear at the store .
Ogden Greene and Tom Cary be go to sell out and go to Manitoba .
There be good chance for a man out there , he say ; in Heatherton he might slave all his life and never make more than a bare living .
Out west he might make a fortune .
Wesley talk on in this strain for some time , rehash all the argument he have hear Greene and Cary use .
He have always be rather dispose to grumble at his limited chance in Heatherton , and now the great West seem to stretch before him , full of allure prospect and vision .
Ogden and Tom want him to go too , he say .
He have half a notion to .
Heatherton be a stick-in-the-mud sort of place anyhow .
`` What say , Dosia ? ''
He look across the table at her , his eye bright and questioning .
Theodosia have listen in silence , a she pour his tea and pass him her hot , flaky biscuit .
There be a little perpendicular wrinkle between her straight eyebrow .
`` I think Ogden and Tom be fool , '' she say crisply .
`` They have good farm here .
What do they want to go west for , or you , either ?
Do n't get silly notion in your head , Wes . ''
Wesley flush .
`` Would n't you go with me , Dosia ? ''
he say , try to speak lightly .
`` No , I would n't , '' say Theodosia , in her calm , sweet voice .
Her face be serene , but the little wrinkle have grow deeper .
Old Jim Parmelee would have know what it mean .
He have see the same expression on old Henry Ford 's face many a time .
Wesley laugh good-humouredly , a if at a child .
His heart be suddenly set on go west , and he be sure he could soon bring Theodosia around .
He do not say anything more about it just then .
Wesley think he know how to manage woman .
When he broach the subject again , two day later , Theodosia tell him plainly that it be no use .
She would never consent to leave Heatherton and all her friend and go out to the prairie .
The idea be just rank foolishness , and he would soon see that himself .
All this Theodosia say calmly and sweetly , without any trace of temper or irritation .
Wesley still believe that he could persuade her and he try perseveringly for a fortnight .
By the end of that time he discover that Theodosia be not a great-great-granddaughter of old Henry Ford for nothing .
Not that Theodosia ever get angry .
Neither do she laugh at him .
She meet his argument and pleading seriously enough , but she never waver .
`` If you go to Manitoba , Wes , you 'll go alone , '' she say .
`` I 'll never go , so there be no use in any more talk . ''
Wesley be a descendant of old Henry Ford too .
Theodosia 's unexpected opposition rouse all the latent stubbornness of his nature .
He go over to Centreville oftener , and keep his blood at fever heat talk to Greene and Cary , who want him to go with them and spar no pain at inducement .
The matter be gossip about in Heatherton , of course .
People know that Wesley Brooke have catch `` the western fever , '' and want to sell out and go to Manitoba , while Theodosia be oppose to it .
They think Dosia would have to give in in the end , but say it be a pity Wes Brooke could n't be content to stay where he be well off .
Theodosia 's family naturally side with her and try to dissuade Wesley .
But he be master by that resentful irritation , rouse in a man by opposition where he think he should be master , which will drive him into any cause .
One day he tell Theodosia that he be go .
She be work her butter in her little , snowy-clean dairy under the great willow by the well .
Wesley be stand in the doorway , his stout , broad-shouldered figure fill up the sunlit space .
He be frown and sullen .
`` I 'm go west in two week ' time with the boy , Dosia , '' he say stubbornly .
`` You can come with me or stay here -- just exactly a you please .
But I 'm go . ''
Theodosia go on spat her ball of golden butter on the print in silence .
She be look very neat and pretty in her big white apron , her sleeve roll up high above her plump , dimple elbow , and her ruddy hair curl about her face and her white throat .
She look as pliable a her butter .
Her silence anger her husband .
He shuffle impatiently .
`` Well , what have you to say , Dosia ? ''
`` Nothing , '' say Theodosia .
`` If you have make up your mind to go , go you will , I suppose .
But I will not .
There be no use in talk .
We 've be over the ground often enough , Wes .
The matter be settle . ''
Up to that moment Wesley have always believe that his wife would yield at last , when she saw that he be determine .
Now he realize that she never would .
Under that exterior of milky , dimple flesh and calm blue eye be all the iron will of old dead and forgotten Henry Ford .
This mild and meek of girl and wife be not to be move a hairsbreadth by all argument or entreaty , or insistence on a husband 's right .
A great , sudden anger come over the man .
He lift his hand and for one moment it seem to Theodosia a if he mean to strike her .
Then he drop it with the first oath that have ever cross his lip .
`` You listen to me , '' he say thickly .
`` If you wo n't go with me I 'll never come back here -- never .
When you want to do your duty a a wife you can come to me .
But I 'll never come back . ''
He turn on his heel and stride away .
Theodosia keep on spat her butter .
The little perpendicular wrinkle have come between her brow again .
At that moment an odd , almost uncanny resemblance to the old portrait of her great-great-grandfather , which hang on the parlour wall at home , come out on her girlish face .
The fortnight pass by .
Wesley be silent and sullen , never speak to his wife when he could avoid it .
Theodosia be a sweet and serene a ever .
She make an extra supply of shirt and sock for him , put up his lunch basket , and pack his trunk carefully .
But she never speak of his journey .
He do not sell his farm .
Irving Brooke rent it .
Theodosia be to live in the house .
The business arrangement be simple and soon conclude .
Heatherton folk gossip a great deal .
They all condemn Theodosia .
Even her own people side against her now .
They hat to be mix up in a local scandal , and since Wes be bind to go they tell Theodosia that it be her duty to go with him , no matter how much she dislike it .
It would be disgraceful not to .
They might as well have talk to the four wind .
Theodosia be immoveable .
They coax and argue and blame -- it all come to the same thing .
Even those of them who could be `` set '' enough themselves on occasion could not understand Theodosia , who have always be so tractable .
They finally give up , a Wesley have do , baffle .
Time would bring her to her sens , they say ; you just have to leave that still , stubborn kind alone .
On the morning of Wesley 's departure Theodosia arise at sunrise and prepare a tempting breakfast .
Irving Brooke 's old son , Stanley , who be to drive Wesley to the station , come over early with his express wagon .
Wesley 's trunk , cord and label , stand on the back platform .
The breakfast be a very silent meal .
When it be over Wesley put on his hat and overcoat and go to the door , around which Theodosia 's morning-glory vine be begin to twine .
The sun be not yet above the tree and the long shadow lay on the dewy grass .
The wet leave be flicker on the old maple that grow along the fence between the yard and the clover field beyond .
The sky be all pearly blue , cleanswept of cloud .
From the little farmhouse the green meadow slop down to the valley , where a blue haze wound in and out like a glistening ribbon .
Theodosia go out and stand look inscrutably on , while Wesley and Irving hoist the trunk into the wagon and tie it .
Then Wesley come up the porch step and look at her .
`` Dosia , '' he say a little huskily , `` I say I would n't ask you to go again , but I will .
Will you come with me yet ? ''
`` No , '' say Theodosia gently .
He hold out his hand .
He do not offer to kiss her .
`` Goodbye , Dosia . ''
`` Goodbye , Wes . ''
There be no tremor of an eyelash with her .
Wesley smile bitterly and turn away .
When the wagon reach the end of the little lane he turn and look back for the last time .
Through all the year that follow he carry with him the picture of his wife a he saw her then , stand amid the airy shadow and waver golden light of the morning , the wind blow the skirt of her pale blue wrapper about her foot and ruffle the lock of her bright hair into a delicate golden cloud .
Then the wagon disappear around a curve in the road , and Theodosia turn and go back into her desolate home .
For a time there be a great buzz of gossip over the affair .
People wonder over it .
Old Jim Parmelee understand good than the others .
When he meet Theodosia he look at her with a curious twinkle in his keen old eye .
`` Looks a if a man could bend her any way he 'd a mind to , do n't she ? ''
he say .
`` Looks be deceive .
It 'll come out in her face by and by -- she 's too young yet , but it 's there .
It do seem unnatteral to see a woman so stubborn -- you 'd kinder look for it more in a man . ''
Wesley write a brief letter to Theodosia when he reach his destination .
He say he be well and be look about for the best place to settle .
He like the country fine .
He be at a place call Red Butte and guess he 'd locate there .
Two week later he write again .
He have take up a claim of three hundred acre .
Greene and Cary have do the same .
They be his near neighbour and be three mile away .
He have knock up a little shack , be learn to cook his own meal , and be very busy .
He think the country be a grand one and the prospect good .
Theodosia answer his letter and tell him all the Heatherton news .
She sign herself `` Theodosia Brooke , '' but otherwise there be nothing in the letter to indicate that it be write by a wife to her husband .
At the end of a year Wesley write and once more ask her to go out to him .
He be get on well , and be sure she would like the place .
It be a little rough , to be sure , but time would improve that .
`` Wo n't you let bygone be bygone , Dosia ? ''
he write , `` and come out to me .
Do , my dear wife . ''
Theodosia write back , refuse to go .
She never get any reply , nor do she write again .
People have give up talk about the matter and ask Theodosia when she be go out to Wes .
Heatherton have grow use to the chronic scandal within it decorous border .
Theodosia never speak of her husband to anyone , and it be know that they do not correspond .
She take her young sister to live with her .
She have her garden and hen and a cow .
The farm bring her enough to live on , and she be always busy .
* * * * * When fifteen year have go by there be naturally some change in Heatherton , sleepy and ; unprogressive a it be .
Most of the old people be in the little hillside burying-ground that front the sunrise .
Old Jim Parmelee be there with his recollection of four generation .
Men and woman who have be in their prime when Wesley go away be old now and the child be grow up and marry .
Theodosia be thirty-five and be nothing like !
the slim , dimple girl who have stand on the porch step and watch her husband drive away that morning fifteen year ago .
She be stout and comely ; the auburn hair be darker and arch away from her face in smooth , shin wave instead of the old-time curl .
Her face be unlined and fresh-coloured , but no woman could live in subjection to her own unbending will for so many year and not show it .
Nobody , look at Theodosia now , would have find it hard to believe that a woman with such a determined , immoveable face could stick to a course of conduct in defiance of circumstance .
Wesley Brooke be almost forget .
People know , through correspondent of Greene and Cary , that he have prosper and grow rich .
The curious old story have crystallize into accepted history .
A life may go on without ripple or disturbance for so many year that it may seem to have settle into a lasting calm ; then a sudden wind of passion may sweep over it and leave behind a wake of tempestuous water .
Such a time come at last to Theodosia .
One day in August Mrs. Emory Merritt drop in .
Emory Merritt 's sister be Ogden Greene 's wife , and the Merritts keep up an occasional correspondence with her .
Hence , Cecilia Merritt always know what be to be know about Wesley Brooke , and always tell Theodosia because she have never be expressly forbidden to do so .
Today she look slightly excite .
Secretly she be wonder if the news she bring would have any effect whatever on Theodosia 's impassive calm .
`` Do you know , Dosia , Wesley 's real sick ?
In fact , Phoebe Greene say they have very poor hope of him .
He be kind of ail all the spring , it seem , and about a month ago he be take down with some kind of slow fever they have out there .
Phoebe say they have a hired nurse from the near town and a good doctor , but she reckon he wo n't get over it .
That fever go awful hard with a man of his year . ''
Cecilia Merritt , who be the fast talker in Heatherton , have get this out before she be bring up by a queer sound , half gasp , half cry , from Theodosia .
The latter look a if someone have strike her a physical blow .
`` Mercy , Dosia , you ai n't go to faint !
I do n't suppose you 'd care .
You never seem to care . ''
`` Did you say , '' ask Theodosia thickly , `` that Wesley be sick -- die ? ''
`` Well , that 's what Phoebe say .
She may be mistake .
Dosia Brooke , you 're a queer woman .
I never could make you out and I never expect to .
I guess only the Lord who make you can translate you . ''
Theodosia stand up .
The sun be get low , and the valley beneath them , ripen to harvest , be like a river of gold .
She fold up her sewing with a steady hand .
`` It 's five o'clock , so I 'll ask you to excuse me , Cecilia .
I have a good deal to attend to .
You can ask Emory if he 'll drive me to the station in the morning .
I 'm go out to Wes . ''
`` Well , for the land 's sake , '' say Cecilia Merritt feebly , a she tie on her gingham sunbonnet .
She get up and go home in a daze .
Theodosia pack her trunk and work all night , dry-eyed , with agony and fear tearing at her heart .
The iron will have snap at last , like a broken reed , and fierce self-condemnation seize on her .
`` I 've be a wicked woman , '' she moan .
A week from that day Theodosia climb down from the dusty stage that have bring her from the station over the prairie to the unpretentious little house where Wesley Brooke live .
A young girl , so like what Ogden Greene 's wife have be fifteen year before that Theodosia involuntarily exclaim , `` Phoebe , '' come to the door .
Beyond her , Theodosia saw the white-capped nurse .
Her voice tremble .
`` Does -- do Wesley Brooke live here ? ''
she ask .
The girl nod .
`` Yes .
But he be very ill at present .
Nobody be allow to see him . ''
Theodosia put up her hand and loosen her bonnet string a if they be choke her .
She have be sick with the fear that Wesley would be dead before she get to him .
The relief be almost overwhelming .
`` But I must see him , '' she cry hysterically -- she , the calm , easy-going Dosia , hysterical -- `` I be his wife -- and oh , if he have die before I get here ! ''
The nurse come forward .
`` In that case I suppose you must , '' she concede .
`` But he do not expect you .
I must prepare him for the surprise . ''
She turn to the door of a room open off the kitchen , but Theodosia , who have hardly hear her , be before her .
She be inside the room before the nurse could prevent her .
Then she stand , afraid and trembling , her eye search the dim apartment hungrily .
When they fell on the occupant of the bed Theodosia start in bitter surprise .
All unconsciously she have be expect to find Wesley a he have be when they part .
Could this gaunt , haggard creature , with the unkempt beard and prematurely grey hair and the hollow , beseech eye , be the ruddy , boyish-faced husband of her youth ?
She give a choking cry of pain and shame , and the sick man turn his head .
Their eye meet .
Amazement , incredulity , hope , dread , all flash in succession over Wesley Brooke 's lined face .
He raise himself feebly up .
`` Dosia , '' he murmur .
Theodosia stagger across the room and fell on her knee by the bed .
She clasp his head to her breast and kiss him again and again .
`` Oh , Wes , Wes , can you forgive me ?
I 've be a wicked , stubborn woman -- and I 've spoil our life .
Forgive me . ''
He hold his thin trembling arm around her and devour her face with his eye .
`` Dosia , when do you come ?
Did you know I be sick ? ''
`` Wes , I ca n't talk till you say you 've forgive me . ''
`` Oh , Dosia , you have just as much to forgive .
We be both too set .
I should have be more considerate . ''
`` Just say , I forgive you , Dosia , ' '' she entreat .
`` I forgive you , Dosia , '' he say gently , `` and oh , it 's so good to see you once more , darling .
There have n't be an hour since I leave you that I have n't long for your sweet face .
If I have think you really care I 'd have go back .
But I think you do n't .
It break my heart .
You do though , do n't you ? ''
`` Oh , yes , yes , yes , '' she say , hold him more closely , with her tear fall .
When the young doctor from Red Butte come that even he find a great improvement in his patient .
Joy and happiness , those world-old physician , have do what drug and medicine have fail to do .
`` I 'm go to get good , Doc , '' say Wesley .
`` My wife have come and she 's go to stay .
You do n't know I be marry , do you ?
I 'll tell you the story some day .
I propose go back east , but Dosia say she 'd rather stay here .
I 'm the happiest man in Red Butte , Doc . ''
He squeeze Theodosia 's hand a he have use to do long ago in Heatherton church , and Dosia smile down at him .
There be no dimple now , but her smile be very sweet .
The ghostly finger of old Henry Ford , point down through the generation , have lose it power to brand with it malediction the life of these , his descendant .
Wesley and Theodosia have join hand with their long-lost happiness .
The Story of an Invitation Bertha Sutherland hurry home from the post office and climb the stair of her boarding-house to her room on the third floor .
Her roommate , Grace Maxwell , be sit on the divan by the window , look out into the twilight .
A year ago Bertha and Grace have come to Dartmouth to attend the Academy , and find themselves roommate .
Bertha be bright , pretty and popular , the favourite of her classmate and teacher ; Grace be a grave , quiet girl , dress in mourning .
She be quite alone in the world , the aunt who have bring her up have recently die .
At first she have felt shy with bright and brilliant Bertha ; but they soon become friend , and the year that follow be a very pleasant one .
It be almost end now , for the terminal exam have begin , and in a week 's time the school would close for the holiday .
`` Have some chocolate , Grace , '' say Bertha gaily .
`` I get such good news in my letter tonight that I felt I must celebrate it fittingly .
So I go into Carter 's and invest all my spare cash in caramel .
It 's really fortunate the term be almost out , for I 'm nearly bankrupt .
I have just enough leave to furnish a ` tuck-out ' for commencement night , and no more . ''
`` What be your good news , may I ask ? ''
say Grace .
`` You know I have an Aunt Margaret -- commonly call Aunt Meg -- out at Riversdale , do n't you ?
There never be such a dear , sweet , jolly aunty in the world .
I have a letter from her tonight .
Listen , I 'll read you what she say . ''
I want you to spend your holiday with me , my dear .
Mary Fairweather and Louise Fyshe and Lily Dennis be come , too .
So there be just room for one more , and that one must be yourself .
Come to Riversdale when school close , and I 'll fee you on strawberry and cream and pound cake and doughnut and mince pie , and all the delicious , indigestible thing that school girl love and careful mother condemn .
Mary and Lou and Lil be girl after your own heart , I know , and you shall all do just a you like , and we 'll have picnic and party and merry doings galore .
`` There , '' say Bertha , look up with a laugh .
`` Is n't that lovely ? ''
`` How delightful it must be to have friend like that to love you and plan for you , '' say Grace wistfully .
`` I be sure you will have a pleasant vacation , Bertie .
As for me , I be go into Clarkman 's bookstore until school reopens .
I saw Mr. Clarkman today and he agree to take me . ''
Bertha look surprised .
She have not know what Grace 's vacation plan be .
`` I do n't think you ought to do that , Grace , '' she say thoughtfully .
`` You be not strong , and you need a good rest .
It will be awfully try to work at Clarkman 's all summer . ''
`` There be nothing else for me to do , '' say Grace , try to speak cheerfully .
`` You know I 'm as poor a the proverbial church mouse , Bertie , and the simple truth be that I ca n't afford to pay my board all summer and get my winter outfit unless I do something to earn it .
I shall be too busy to be lonesome , and I shall expect long , newsy letter from you , tell me all your fun -- pass your vacation on to me at second-hand , you see .
Well , I must set to work at those algebra problem .
I try them before dark , but I could n't solve them .
My head ache and I felt so stupid .
How glad I shall be when exam be over . ''
`` I suppose I must revise that senior English this evening , '' say Bertha absently .
But she make no move to do so .
She be study her friend 's face .
How very pale and thin Grace look -- surely much paler and thinner than when she have come to the Academy , and she have not by any mean be plump and rosy then .
I believe she could not stand two month at Clarkman 's , think Bertha .
If I be not go to Aunt Meg 's , I would ask her to go home with me .
Or even if Aunt Meg have room for another guest , I 'd just write her all about Grace and ask if I could bring her with me .
Aunt Meg would understand -- she always understand .
But she have n't , so it ca n't be .
Just then a thought dart into Bertha 's brain .
`` What nonsense ! ''
she say aloud so suddenly and forcibly that Grace fairly jump .
`` What be ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , '' say Bertha , get up briskly .
`` See here , I 'm go to get to work .
I 've waste enough time . ''
She curl herself up on the divan and try to study her senior English .
But her thought wander hopelessly , and finally she give it up in despair and go to bed .
There she could not sleep ; she lay awake and wrestle with herself .
It be after midnight when she sit up in bed and say solemnly , `` I will do it . ''
Next day Bertha write a confidential letter to Aunt Meg .
She thank her for her invitation and then tell her all about Grace .
`` And what I want to ask , Aunt Meg , be that you will let me transfer my invitation to Grace , and ask her to go to Riversdale this summer in my place .
Do n't think me ungrateful .
No , I 'm sure you wo n't , you always understand thing .
But you ca n't have u both , and I 'd rather Grace should go .
It will do her so much good , and I have a lovely home of my own to go to , and she have none . ''
Aunt Meg understood , a usual , and be perfectly willing .
So she write to Bertha and enclose a note of invitation for Grace .
I shall have to manage this affair very carefully , reflect Bertha .
Grace must never suspect that I do it on purpose .
I will tell her that circumstance have prevent me from accept Aunt Meg 's invitation .
That be true enough -- no need to say that the circumstance be hers , not mine .
And I 'll say I just ask Aunt Meg to invite her in my place and that she have do so .
When Grace come home from her history examination that day , Bertha tell her story and give her Aunt Meg 's cordial note .
`` You must come to me in Bertha 's place , '' write the latter .
`` I feel a if I know you from her letter , and I will consider you a a sort of honorary niece , and I 'll treat you a if you be Bertha herself . ''
`` Is n't it splendid of Aunt Meg ? ''
say Bertha diplomatically .
`` Of course you 'll go , Gracie . ''
`` Oh , I do n't know , '' say Grace in bewilderment .
`` Are you sure you do n't want to go , Bertha ? ''
`` Indeed , I do want to go , dreadfully , '' say Bertha frankly .
`` But a I 've tell you , it be impossible .
But if I be disappointed , Aunt Meg mus n't be .
You must go , Grace , and that be all there be about it . ''
In the end , Grace do go , a little puzzled and doubtful still , but thankful beyond word to escape the drudgery of the counter and the noise and heat of the city .
Bertha go home , feel a little bit blue in secret , it can not be deny , but also feel quite sure that if she have to do it all over again , she would do just the same .
The summer slip quickly by , and finally two letter come to Bertha , one from Aunt Meg and one from Grace .
`` I 've have a lovely time , '' write the latter , `` and , oh , Bertie , what do you think ?
I be to stay here always .
Oh , of course I be go back to school next month , but this be to be my home after this .
Aunt Meg -- she make me call her that -- say I must stay with her for good . ''
In Aunt Meg 's letter be this paragraph : Grace be write to you , and will have tell you that I intend to keep her here .
You know I have always want a daughter of my own , but my greedy brother and sister would never give me one of theirs .
So I intend to adopt Grace .
She be the sweet girl in the world , and I be very grateful to you for send her here .
You will not know her when you see her .
She have grow plump and rosy .
Bertha fold her letter up with a smile .
`` I have a vague , delightful feeling that I be the good angel in a storybook , '' she say .
The Touch of Fate Mrs. Major Hill be in her element .
This do not often happen , for in the remote prairie town of the Canadian Northwest , where her husband be station , there be few opportunity for match-making .
And Mrs. Hill be -- or believe herself to be -- a born matchmaker .
Major Hill be in command of the detachment of Northwest Mounted Police at Dufferin Bluff .
Mrs. Hill be wont to declare that it be the most forsaken place to be find in Canada or out of it ; but she do her very best to brighten it up , and it be only fair to say that the N.W.M.P . , officer and men , second her effort .
When Violet Thayer come west to pay a long-promised visit to her old schoolfellow , Mrs. Hill 's cup of happiness bubble over .
In her secret soul she vow that Violet should never go back east unless it be post-haste to prepare a wedding trousseau .
There be at least half a dozen eligibles among the M.P.s , and Mrs. Hill , after some reflection , settle on Ned Madison a the flower of the flock .
`` He and Violet be simply make for each other , '' she tell Major Hill the evening before Miss Thayer 's arrival .
`` He have enough money and he be handsome and fascinating .
And Violet be a beauty and a clever woman into the bargain .
They ca n't help fall in love , I 'm sure ; it 's fate ! ''
`` Perhaps Miss Thayer may be book elsewhere already , '' suggest Major Hill .
He have see more than one of his wife 's card castle fall into heartbreaking ruin .
`` Oh , no ; Violet would have tell me if that be the case .
It 's really quite time for her to think of settle down .
She be twenty-five , you know .
The men all go crazy over her , but she 's dreadfully hard to please .
However , she ca n't help like Ned .
He have n't a single fault .
I firmly believe it be foreordain . ''
And in this belief Mrs. Hill rest securely , but nevertheless do not fail to concoct several feminine artifice for the help on of foreordination .
It be a working belief with her that it be always well to have the god in your debt .
Violet Thayer come , saw , and conquer .
Within thirty-six hour of her arrival at Dufferin Bluff she have every one of the half-dozen eligibles at her foot , not to mention a score or more ineligibles .
She would have be surprise indeed have it be otherwise .
Miss Thayer know her power , and be somewhat unduly fond of exercise it .
But she be a very nice girl into the bargain , and so thought one and all of the young men who frequent Mrs. Hill 's drawing-room and count it richly worth while merely to look at Miss Thayer after have see nothing for week except flabby half-breed girl and blue-haired squaw .
Madison be foremost in the field , of course .
Madison be really a nice fellow , and quite deserve all Mrs. Hill 's encomium .
He be good-looking and well groom -- could sing and dance divinely and play the violin to perfection .
The other M.P.s be all jealous of him , and more so than ever when Violet Thayer come .
They do not consider that any one of them have the ghost of a chance if Madison enter the list against them .
Violet like Madison , and be very chummy with him after her own fashion .
She think all the M.P.s be nice boy , and they amuse her , for which she be grateful .
She have expect Dufferin Bluff to be very dull , and doubtless it would pall after a time , but for a change it be delightful .
The sixth evening after her arrival find Mrs. Hill 's room crowd , a usual , with M.P.s . Violet be look her best in a distract new gown -- Sergeant Fox afterwards describe it to a brother officer a a `` stunning sort of rig between a cream and a blue and a brown '' ; she flirt impartially with all the member of her circle at first , but gradually narrow down to Ned Madison , much to the delight of Mrs. Hill , who be hover around like a small , brilliant butterfly .
Violet be talk to Madison and watch John Spencer out of the tail of her eye .
Spencer be not an M.P . .
He have some government post at Dufferin Bluff , and this be his first call at Lone Poplar Villa since Miss Thayer 's arrival .
He do not seem to be dazzle by her at all , and after his introduction have promptly retire to a corner with Major Hill , where they talk the whole evening about the trouble on the Indian reservation at Loon Lake .
Possibly this indifference pique Miss Thayer .
Possibly she consider it refresh after the servile adulation of the M.P.s . .
At any rate , when all the latter be gather about the piano sing a chorus with gusto , she shake Madison off and go over to the corner where Spencer , desert by the Major , whose bass be want , be sit in solitary state .
He look up indifferently a Violet shimmer down on the divan beside him .
Sergeant Robinson , who be watch them jealously from the corner beyond the palm , and would have give his eye , or at least one of them , for such a favour , mentally vow that Spencer be the dull fellow he have ever put those useful member on .
`` Do n't you sing , Mr. Spencer ? ''
ask Violet by way of begin a conversation , a she turn her splendid eye full upon him .
Robinson would have lose his head under them , but Spencer keep his heroically .
`` No , '' be his calmly brief reply , give without any bluntness , but with no evident intention of say anything more .
In spite of her social experience Violet felt disconcert .
`` If he do n't want to talk to me I wo n't try to make him , '' she think crossly .
No man have ever snub her so before .
Spencer listen immovably to the music for a time .
Then he turn to his companion with a palpable effort to be civilly sociable .
`` How do you like the west , Miss Thayer ? ''
he say .
Violet smile -- the smile most men find dangerous .
`` Very much , so far a I have see it .
There be a flavour about the life here that I like , but I dare say it would soon pall .
It must be horribly lonesome here most of the time , especially in winter . ''
`` The M.P.s be always growl that it be , '' return Spencer with a slight smile .
`` For my own part I never find it so . ''
Violet decide that his smile be very become to him and that she like the way his dark hair grow over his forehead .
`` I do n't think I 've see you at Lone Poplar Villa before ? ''
she say .
`` No .
I have n't be here for some time .
I come up tonight to see the Major about the Loon Lake trouble . ''
`` Otherwise you would n't have come , '' think Violet .
`` Flattering -- very ! ''
Aloud she say , `` Is it serious ? ''
`` Oh , no .
A mere squabble among the Indians .
Have you ever visit the Reservation , Miss Thayer ?
No ?
Well , you should get some of your M.P . friends to take you out .
It would be worth while . ''
`` Why do n't you ask me to go yourself ? ''
say Violet audaciously .
Spencer smile again .
`` Have I fail in politeness by not do so ?
I fear you would find me an insufferably dull companion . ''
So he be not go to ask her after all .
Violet felt pique .
She be also conscious of a sensation very near akin to disappointment .
She look across at Madison .
How trim and dapper he be !
`` I hate a bandbox man , '' she say to herself .
Spencer meanwhile have pick up one of Mrs. Hill 's novel from the stand beside him . ''
Fools of Habit , '' he say , glance at the cover .
`` I see it be make quite a sensation down east .
I suppose you 've read it ? ''
`` Yes .
It be very frivolous and clever -- all froth but delightful froth .
Did you like it ? ''
Spencer balance the novel reflectively on his slender brown hand .
`` Well , yes , rather .
But I do n't care for novel a a rule .
I do n't understand them .
The hero of this book , now -- do you believe that a man in love would act a he do ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' say Violet amusedly .
`` You ought to be a good judge than I .
You be a man . ''
`` I have never love anybody , so I be in no position to decide , '' say Spencer .
There be a little self-consciousness in his voice a if he be tell her a fact concern the Loon Lake trouble .
Violet rise to the occasion .
`` You have an interesting experience to look forward to , '' she say .
Spencer turn his deep-set grey eye squarely upon her .
`` I do n't know that .
When I say I have never love , I mean more than the love of a man for some particular woman .
I mean love in every sense .
I do not know what it be to have an affection for any human be .
My parent die before I can remember .
My only living relative be a penurious old uncle who bring me up for shame 's sake and kick me out on the world as soon a he could .
I do n't make friend easily .
I have a few acquaintance whom I like , but there be not a soul on earth for whom I care , or who care for me . ''
`` What a revelation love will be to you when it come , '' say Violet softly .
Again he look into her eye .
`` Do you think it will come ? ''
he ask .
Before she could reply Mrs. Hill pounce upon them .
Violet be want to sing .
Mr. Spencer would excuse her , would n't he ?
Mr. Spencer do so obligingly .
Moreover , he get up and bid his hostess good night .
Violet give him her hand .
`` You will call again ? ''
she say .
Spencer look across at Madison -- perhaps it be accidental .
`` I think not , '' he say .
`` If , a you say , love will come some time , it would be a very unpleasant revelation if it come in hopeless guise , and one never know what may happen . ''
Miss Thayer be conscious of a distinct fluttering of her heart a she go across to the piano .
This be a new sensation for her , and worthy of be analyze .
After the M.P.s have go she ask Mrs. Hill who Mr. Spencer be .
`` Oh , John Spencer , '' say Mrs. Hill carelessly .
`` He 's at the head of the Land Office here .
That 's really all I know about him .
Jack say he be a downright good fellow and all that , you know .
But he 's no earthly good in a social way ; he ca n't talk or he wo n't .
He 's flat .
So different from Mr. Madison , be n't he ? ''
`` Very , '' say Violet emphatically .
After Mrs. Hill have go out Violet walk to the near mirror and look at herself with her forefinger in the dimple of her chin .
`` It be very odd , '' she say .
She do not mean the dimple .
* * * * * Spencer have tell her he be not come back .
She do not believe this , but she do not expect him for a few day .
Consequently , when he appear the very next evening she be surprised .
Madison , to whom she be talk when Spencer enter , do not know to this day what she have start to say to him , for she never finish her sentence .
`` I wonder if it be the Loon Lake affair again ? ''
she think nervously .
Mrs. Hill come up at this point and whisk Madison off for a waltz .
Spencer , see his chance , come straight across the room to her .
Sergeant Robinson , who be watch them a usual , be willing to make affidavit that Miss Thayer change colour .
After his greet Spencer say nothing .
He sit beside her , and they watch Mrs. Hill and Madison dancing .
Violet wonder why she do not feel bore .
When she saw Madison come back to her she be conscious of an unreasonable anger with him .
She get up abruptly .
`` Let u go out on the verandah , '' she say imperiously .
`` It be absolutely stifle in here . ''
They go out .
It be very cool and dusky .
The light of the town twinkle out below them , and the prairie bluff behind them be dark and sibilant .
`` I be go to drive over to Loon Lake tomorrow afternoon to look into affair there , '' say Spencer .
`` Will you go with me ? ''
Violet reflect a moment .
`` You do n't ask me a if you really want me to go , '' she say .
Spencer put his hand over the white finger that rest on the railing .
He bend forward until his breath stir the tendril of hair on her forehead .
`` Yes , I do , '' he say distinctly .
`` I want you to go with me to Loon Lake tomorrow more than I ever want any thing in my life before . ''
Later on , when everybody have go , Violet have her bad quarter of an hour with Mrs. Hill .
That lady felt herself aggrieve .
`` I think you treat poor Ned very badly tonight , Vi .
He felt really blue over it .
And it be awfully bad form to go out with Spencer a you do and stay there so long .
And you ought n't to flirt with him -- he do n't understand the game . ''
`` I 'm not go to flirt with him , '' say Miss Thayer calmly .
`` Oh , I suppose it 's just your way .
Only do n't turn the poor fellow 's head .
By the way , Ned be come up with his camera tomorrow afternoon to take u all . ''
`` I 'm afraid he wo n't find me at home , '' say Violet sweetly .
`` I be go out to Loon Lake with Mr. Spencer . ''
Mrs. Hill flounce off to bed in a pet .
She be disgust with everything , she declare to the Major .
Things have be go so nicely , and now they be all muddle .
`` Is n't Madison come up to time ? ''
query the Major sleepily .
`` Madison !
It 's Violet .
She be behave abominably .
She treat poor Ned shamefully tonight .
You saw yourself how she act with Spencer , and she 's go to Loon Lake with him tomorrow , she say .
I 'm sure I do n't know what she can see in him .
He 's the dullest , pokiest fellow alive -- so different from her in every way . ''
`` Perhaps that be why she like him , '' suggest the Major .
`` The attraction of opposite and all that , you know . ''
But Mrs. Hill crossly tell him he do n't know anything about it , so , be a wise man , he hold his tongue .
* * * * * During the next two week Mrs. Hill be the most dissatisfied woman in the four district , and every M.P . down to the rawest recruit anathemize Spencer in secret a dozen time a day .
Violet simply drop everyone else , include Madison , in the coolest , most unmistakable way .
One night Spencer do not come to Lone Poplar Villa .
Violet look for him to the last .
When she realize that he be not come she go to the verandah to have it out with herself .
As she sit huddle up in a dim corner beneath a silkily rustle western maple two M.P.s come out and , not see her , go on with their conversation .
`` Heard about Spencer ? ''
questioned one .
`` No .
What of him ? ''
`` Well , they say Miss Thayer 's thrown him over .
Yesterday I be pass here about four in the afternoon and I saw Spencer come in .
I go down to the Land Office and be chat to Cribson when the door open about half an hour later and Spencer burst in .
He be pale a the dead , and look wild .
` Has Fyshe go to Rainy River about those Crown Lands yet ? '
he jerk out .
Cribson say , ` No . '
Then tell him he need n't ; I 'm go myself , ' say Spencer and out he bolt .
He post off to Rainy River today , and wo n't be back for a fortnight .
She 'll be go then . ''
`` Rather rough on Spencer after the way she encourage him , '' return the other a they pass out of earshot .
Violet get up .
All the caller be go , and she sweep in to Mrs. Hill dramatically .
`` Edith , '' she say in the cold , steady voice that , to those who know her , meant breaker ahead for somebody , `` Mr. Spencer be here yesterday when I be rid with the Major , be he not ?
What do you tell him about me ? ''
Mrs. Hill look at Violet 's blaze eye and wilt .
`` I -- do n't tell him anything -- much . ''
`` What be it ? ''
Mrs. Hill begin to sob .
`` Do n't look at me like that , Violet !
He just drop in and we be talk about you -- at least I be -- and I have hear that Harry St. Maur be pay you marked attention before you come west -- and -- and that some people think you be engage -- and so -- and so -- '' `` You tell Mr. Spencer that I be engage to Harry St. Maur ? ''
`` No-o-o -- I just hint .
I do n't mean an-any harm .
I never dream you 'd really c-care .
I think you be just amuse yourself -- and so do everybody -- and I want Ned Madison -- '' Violet have turn very pale .
`` I love him , '' she say hoarsely , `` and you 've send him away .
He 's go to Rainy River .
I shall never see him again ! ''
`` Oh , yes , you will , '' gasp Mrs. Hill faintly .
`` He 'll come back when he know -- you c-can write and tell him -- '' `` Do you suppose I be go to write and ask him to come back ? ''
say Violet wildly .
`` I 've enough pride leave yet to keep me from do that for a man at whose head I 've throw myself openly -- yes , openly , and who have never , in word at least , tell me he care anything about me .
I will never forgive you , Edith ! ''
Then Mrs. Hill find herself alone with her lacerated feeling .
After soothe them with a good cry , she set to work think seriously .
There be no doubt she have muddle thing badly , but there be no use leave them in a muddle when a word or two fitly spoken might set them straight .
Mrs. Hill sit down and write a very diplomatic letter before she go to bed , and the next morning she waylay Sergeant Fox and ask him if he would ride down to Rainy River with a very important message for Mr. Spencer .
Sergeant Fox wonder what it could be , but it be not his to reason why ; it be his only to mount and ride with all due speed , for Mrs. Hill 's whim and wish be a stringent and binding a the rule of the force .
That evening when Mrs. Hill and Violet -- the latter very silent and regal -- be sit on the verandah , a horseman come gallop up the Rainy River trail .
Mrs. Hill excuse herself and go in .
Five minute later John Spencer , cover with the alkali dust of his twenty mile ' ride , dismount at Violet 's side .
* * * * * The M.P.s give a concert at the barrack that night and Mrs. Hill and her Major go to it , as well a everyone else of any importance in town except Violet and Spencer .
They sit on Major Hill 's verandah and watch the moon rise over the bluff and make milk-white reflection in the prairie lake .
`` It seem a year of misery since last night , '' sigh Violet happily .
`` You could n't have be quite as miserable a I be , '' say Spencer earnestly .
`` You be everything -- absolutely everything to me .
Other men have little rill and driblet of affection for sister and cousin and aunt , but everything in me go out to you .
Do you remember you tell me the first time we meet that love would be a revelation to me ?
It have be more .
It have be a new gospel .
I hardly dare hope you could care for me .
Even yet I do n't know why you do . ''
`` I love you , '' say Violet gravely , `` because you be you . ''
Than which , of course , there could be no good reason .
The Waking of Helen Robert Reeves look somewhat curiously at the girl who be wait on him at his solitary breakfast .
He have not see her before , arrive at his summer boarding house only the precede night .
It be a shabby farmhouse on the inland shore of a large bay that be note for it tide , and have wonderful possibility of light and shade for an impressionist .
Reeves be an enthusiastic artist .
It matter little to him that the boarding accommodation be most primitive , the people uncultured and dull , the place itself utterly isolate , as long a he could revel in those transcendent sunset and sunrise , those marvellous moonlight , those wonderful purple shore and sweep of shimmer blue water .
The owner of the farm be Angus Fraser , and he and his wife seem to be a reserve , uncouth pair , with no apparent interest in life save to scratch a bare live out of their few stony acre .
He have an impression that they be childless and be at a loss to place this girl who pour his tea and brought in his toast .
She do not resemble either Fraser or his wife .
She be certainly not beautiful , be very tall and rather awkward , and dress in a particularly unbecoming dark print wrapper .
Her luxuriant hair be thick and black , and be coil in a heavy knot at the nape of her neck .
Her feature be delicate but irregular , and her skin be very brown .
Her eye attract Reeves 's notice especially ; they be large and dark and full of a half-unconscious , wistful longing , a if a prisoned soul behind them be vainly try to reveal itself .
Reeves could find out nothing of her from herself , for she respond to his tentative question about the place in the brief fashion .
Afterwards he interview Mrs. Fraser cautiously , and ascertain that the girl 's name be Helen Fraser , and that she be Angus 's niece .
`` Her father and mother be dead and we 've bring her up .
Helen 's a good girl in most way -- a little obstinate and sulky now and then -- but generally she 's steady enough , and a for work , there ai n't a girl in Bay Beach can come up to her in house or field .
Angus calculate she save him a man 's wage clear .
No , I ai n't get nothing to say against Helen . ''
Nevertheless , Reeves felt somehow that Mrs. Fraser do not like her husband 's niece .
He often hear her scold or nag Helen at her work , and notice that the latter never answer back .
But once , after Mrs. Angus 's tongue have be especially bitter , he meet the girl hurry along the hall from the kitchen with her eye full of tear .
Reeves felt a if someone have strike him a blow .
He go to Angus and his wife that afternoon .
He wish to paint a shore picture , he say , and want a model .
Would they allow Miss Fraser to pose for him ?
He would pay liberally for her time .
Angus and his wife have no objection .
They would pocket the money , and Helen could be spar a spell every day as well a not .
Reeves tell Helen of his plan himself , meet her in the evening a she be bring the cow home from the low shore pasture beyond the marsh .
He be surprise at the sudden illumination of her face .
It almost transfigure her from a plain , sulky-looking girl into a beautiful woman .
But the glow pass quickly .
She assent to his plan quietly , almost lifelessly .
He walk home with her behind the cow and talked of the sunset and the mysterious beauty of the bay and the purple splendour of the distant coast .
She listen in silence .
Only once , when he speak of the distant murmur of the open sea , she lift her head and look at him .
`` What do it say to you ? ''
she ask .
`` It speak of eternity .
And to you ? ''
`` It call me , '' she answer simply , `` and then I want to go out and meet it -- and it hurt me too .
I ca n't tell how or why .
Sometimes it make me feel a if I be asleep and want to wake and do n't know how . ''
She turn and look out over the bay .
A die gleam of sunset break through a cloud and fell across her hair .
For a moment she seem the spirit of the shore personify -- all it mystery , all it uncertainty , all it elusive charm .
She have possibility , think Reeves .
Next day he begin his picture .
At first he have think of paint her a the incarnation of a sea spirit , but decide that her mood be too fitful .
So he begin to sketch her a `` Waiting '' -- a woman look out across the bay with a world of hopeless longing in her eye .
The subject suit her well , and the picture grow apace .
When he be tire of work he make her walk around the shore with him , or row up the head of the bay in her own boat .
He try to draw her out , at first with indifferent success .
She seem to be frighten of him .
He talk to her of many thing -- the far out world whose echo never reach her , foreign land where he have travel , famous men and woman whom he have meet , music , art and book .
When he speak of book he touch the right chord .
One of those transfigure flash he delight to evoke now pass over her plain face .
`` That be what I 've always want , '' she say hungrily , `` and I never get them .
Aunt hat to see me read .
She say it be a waste of time .
And I love it so .
I read every scrap of paper I can get hold of , but I hardly ever see a book . ''
The next day Reeves take his Tennyson to the shore and begin to read the Idylls of the King to her .
`` It be beautiful , '' be her sole verbal comment , but her rapt eye say everything .
After that he never go out with her without a book -- now one of the poet , now some prose classic .
He be surprise by her quick appreciation of and sympathy with the fine passage .
Gradually , too , she forget her shyness and begin to talk .
She know nothing of his world , but her own world she know and know well .
She be a mine of traditional history about the bay .
She know the rocky coast by heart , and every old legend that cling to it .
They drift into make excursion along the shore and explore it wild retreat .
The girl have an artist 's eye for scenery and colour effect .
`` You should have be an artist , '' Reeves tell her one day when she have point out to him the exquisite loveliness of a shaft of light fall through a cleft in the rock across a dark-green pool at their base .
`` I would rather be a writer , '' she say slowly , `` if I could only write something like those book you have read to me .
What a glorious destiny it must be to have something to say that the whole world be listen for , and to be able to say it in word that will live forever !
It must be the noble human lot . ''
`` Yet some of those men and woman be neither good nor noble , '' say Reeves gently , `` and many of them be unhappy . ''
Helen dismiss the subject as abruptly a she always do when the conversation touch too nearly on the sensitive edge of her soul dream .
`` Do you know where I be take you today ? ''
she say .
`` No -- where ? ''
`` To what the people here call the Kelpy 's Cave .
I hate to go there .
I believe there be something uncanny about it , but I think you will like to see it .
It be a dark little cave in the curve of a small cove , and on each side the headland of rock run far out .
At low tide we can walk right around , but when the tide come in it fill the Kelpy 's Cave .
If you be there and let the tide come past the point , you would be drown unless you could swim , for the rock be so steep and high it be impossible to climb them . ''
Reeves be interested .
`` Was anyone ever catch by the tide ? ''
`` Yes , '' return Helen , with a shudder .
`` Once , long ago , before I be bear , a girl go around the shore to the cave and fell asleep there -- and the tide come in and she be drown .
She be young and very pretty , and be to have be marry the next week .
I 've be afraid of the place ever since . ''
The treacherous cave prove to be a picturesque and innocent-looking spot , with the beach of glitter sand before it and the high gloomy wall of rock on either hand .
`` I must come here some day and sketch it , '' say Reeves enthusiastically , `` and you must be the Kelpy , Helen , and sit in the cave with your hair wrap about you and seaweed cling to it . ''
`` Do you think a kelpy would look like that ? ''
say the girl dreamily .
`` I do n't .
I think it be a wild , wicked little sea imp , malicious and mocking and cruel , and it sit here and watch for victim . ''
`` Well , never mind your sea kelpy , '' Reeves say , fish out his Longfellow .
`` They be a tricky folk , if all tale be true , and it be suppose to be a very rash thing to talk about them in their own haunt .
I want to read you ` The Building of the Ship . '
You will like it , I 'm sure . ''
When the tide turn they go home .
`` We have n't see the kelpy , after all , '' say Reeves .
`` I think I shall see him some day , '' say Helen gravely .
`` I think he be wait for me there in that gloomy cave of his , and some time or other he will get me . ''
Reeves smile at the gloomy fancy , and Helen smile back at him with one of her sudden radiance .
The tide be creep swiftly up over the white sand .
The sun be low and the bay be swim in a pale blue glory .
They part at Clam Point , Helen to go for the cow and Reeves to wander on up the shore .
He think of Helen at first , and the wonderful change that have come over her of late ; then he begin to think of another face -- a marvellously lovely one with blue eye as tender a the water before him .
Then Helen be forget .
The summer wan swiftly .
One afternoon Reeves take a fancy to revisit the Kelpy 's Cave .
Helen could not go .
It be harvest time , and she be need in the field .
`` Do n't let the kelpy catch you , '' she say to him half seriously .
`` The tide will turn early this afternoon , and you be give to day-dreaming . ''
`` I 'll be careful , '' he promise laughingly , and he mean to be careful .
But somehow when he reach the cave it unwholesome charm overcame him , and he sit down on the boulder at it mouth .
`` An hour yet before tide time , '' he say .
`` Just enough time to read that article on impressionist in my review and then stroll home by the sandshore . ''
From read he pass to day-dreaming , and day-dreaming drift into sleep , with his head pillow on the rocky wall of the cave .
How long he have slept he do not know , but he wake with a start of horror .
He spring to his foot , realize his position instantly .
The tide be in -- far in past the headland already .
Above and beyond him tower the pitiless unscalable rock .
There be no way of escape .
Reeves be no coward , but life be sweet to him , and to die like that -- like a drowned rat in a hole -- to be able to do nothing but wait for that swift and sure oncoming death !
He reel against the damp rock wall , and for a moment sea and sky and prisoning headland and white-lined tide whirl before his eye .
Then his head grow clearer .
He try to think .
How long have he ?
Not more than twenty minute at the outside .
Well , death be sure and he would meet it bravely .
But to wait -- to wait helplessly !
He should go ; mad with the horror of it before those endless minute would have pass !
He take something from his pocket and bend his , head over it , press his lip to it repeatedly .
And then , when he raise his face again , a dory be come around the headland on his right , and Helen Fraser be in it .
Reeves be dizzy again with the shock of joy and thankfulness .
He run down over the little stretch of sand still uncover by the tide and around to the rock of the headland against which the dory be already grate .
He spring forward impulsively and catch the girl 's cold hand in his a she drop the oar and stand up .
`` Helen , you have save me !
How can I ever thank you ?
I -- '' He break off abruptly , for she be look up at him , breathlessly and voicelessly , with her whole soul in her eye .
He saw in them a revelation that amaze him ; he drop her hand and step back a if she have strike him in the face .
Helen do not notice the change in him .
She clasp her hand together and her voice tremble .
`` Oh , I be afraid I should be too late !
When I come in from the field Aunt Hannah say you have not come back -- and I know it be tide time -- and I felt somehow that it have catch you in the cave .
I run down over the marsh and take Joe Simmon 's dory .
If I have not get here in time -- '' She break off shiveringly .
Reeves step into the dory and take up the oar .
`` The kelpy would have be sure of it victim then , '' he say , try to speak lightly .
`` It would have almost serve me right for neglect your warning .
I be very careless .
You must let me row back .
I be afraid you have overtasked your strength try to cheat the kelpy . ''
Reeves row homeward in an absolute silence .
Helen do not speak and he could not .
When they reach the dory anchorage he help her out .
`` I think I 'll go out to the Point for a walk , '' he say .
`` I want to steady my nerve .
You must go right home and rest .
Do n't be anxious -- I wo n't take any more chance with sea kelpy . ''
Helen go away without a word , and Reeves walk slowly out to the Point .
He be grieve beyond measure at the discovery he believe he have make .
He have never dream of such a thing .
He be not a vain man , and be utterly free from all tendency to flirtation .
It have never occur to him that the waking of the girl 's deep nature might be attend with disastrous consequence .
He have honestly mean to help her , and what have he do ?
He felt very uncomfortable ; he could not conscientiously blame himself , but he saw that he have act foolishly .
And of course he must go away at once .
And he must also tell her something she ought to know .
He wish he have tell her long ago .
The following afternoon be a perfect one .
Reeves be sketch on the sandshore when Helen come .
She sit down on a camp stool a little to one side and do not speak .
After a few moment Reeves push away his paraphernalia impatiently .
`` I do n't feel in a mood for work , '' he say .
`` It be too dreamy a day -- one ought to do nothing to be in keep .
Besides , I 'm get lazy now that my vacation be nearly over .
I must go in a few day . ''
He avoid look at her , so he do not see the sudden pallor of her face .
`` So soon ? ''
she say in a voice expressive of no particular feeling .
`` Yes .
I ought not to have linger so long .
My world will be forget me and that will not do .
It have be a very pleasant summer and I shall be sorry to leave Bay Beach . ''
`` But you will come back next summer ? ''
ask Helen quickly .
`` You say you would . ''
Reeves nerve himself for his very distasteful task .
`` Perhaps , '' he say , with an attempt at carelessness , `` but if I do so , I shall not come alone .
Somebody who be very dear to me will come with me -- a my wife .
I have never tell you about her , Helen , but you and I be such good friend that I do not mind do so now .
I be engage to a very sweet girl , and we expect to be marry next spring . ''
There be a brief silence .
Reeves have be vaguely afraid of a scene and be immensely relieve to find his fear unrealized .
Helen sit very still .
He could not see her face .
Did she care , after all ?
Was he mistake ?
When she speak her voice be perfectly calm .
`` Thank you , it be very kind of you to tell me about her .
I suppose she be very beautiful . ''
`` Yes , here be her picture .
You can judge for yourself . ''
Helen take the portrait from his hand and look at it steadily .
It be a miniature paint on ivory , and the face look out from it be certainly lovely .
`` It be no wonder you love her , '' say the girl in a low tone a she hand it back .
`` It must be strange to be so beautiful a that . ''
Reeves pick up his Tennyson .
`` Shall I read you something ?
What will you have ? ''
`` Read ` Elaine , ' please .
I want to hear that once more . ''
Reeves felt a sudden dislike to her choice .
`` Would n't you prefer something else ? ''
he ask , hurriedly turn over the leaf . ''
` Elaine ' be rather sad .
Sha n't I read ` Guinevere ' instead ? ''
`` No , '' say Helen in the same lifeless tone .
`` I have no sympathy for Guinevere .
She suffer and her love be unlawful , but she be love in return -- she do not waste her love on someone who do not want or care for it .
Elaine do , and her life go with it .
Read me the story . ''
Reeves obey .
When he have finish he hold the book out to her .
`` Helen , will you take this Tennyson from me in remembrance of our friendship and of the Kelpy 's Cave ?
I shall never forget that I owe my life to you . ''
`` Thank you . ''
She take the book and place a little thread of crimson seaweed that have be catch in the sand between the page of `` Elaine . ''
Then she rise .
`` I must go back now .
Aunt will need me .
Thank you again for the book , Mr. Reeves , and for all your kindness to me . ''
Reeves be relieve when the interview be over .
Her calmness have reassure him .
She do not care very much , after all ; it be only a passing fancy , and when he be go she would soon forget him .
He go away a few day later , and Helen bid him an impassive good-bye .
When the afternoon be far spent she steal away from the house to the shore , with her Tennyson in her hand , and take her way to the Kelpy 's Cave .
The tide be just begin to come in .
She sit down on the big boulder where Reeves have fall asleep .
Beyond stretch the gleam blue water , mellow into a hundred fairy shade horizonward .
The shadow of the rock be around her .
In front be the white line of the incoming tide ; it have almost reach the headland .
A few minute more and escape would be cut off -- yet she do not move .
When the dark green water reach her , and the lap wavelet swish up over the hem of her dress , she lift her head and a sudden strange smile flash over her face .
Perhaps the kelpy understand it .
The Way of the Winning of Anne Jerome Irving have be court Anne Stockard for fifteen year .
He have begin when she be twenty and he be twenty-five , and now that Jerome be forty , and Anne , in a village where everybody know everybody else 's age , have to own to be thirty-five , the courtship do not seem any near a climax than it have at the beginning .
But that be not Jerome 's fault , poor fellow !
At the end of the first year he have ask Anne to marry him , and Anne have refuse .
Jerome be disappoint , but he keep his head and go on court Anne just the same ; that be he go over to Esek Stockard 's house every Saturday night and spend the evening , he walk home with Anne from prayer meeting and sing school and party when she would let him , and ask her to go to all the concert and social and quilt frolic that come off .
Anne never would go , of course , but Jerome faithfully give her the chance .
Old Esek rather favour Jerome 's suit , for Anne be the plainest of his many daughter , and no other fellow seem at all anxious to run Jerome off the track ; but she take her own way with true Stockard firmness , and matter be allow to drift on at the will of time or chance .
Three year later Jerome try his luck again , with precisely the same result , and after that he have ask Anne regularly once a year to marry him , and just a regularly Anne say no a little more brusquely and a little more decidedly every year .
Now , in the mellowness of a fifteen-year-old courtship , Jerome do not mind it at all .
He know that everything come to the man who have patience to wait .
Time , of course , have not stand still with Anne and Jerome , or with the history of Deep Meadows .
At the Stockard homestead the change have be many and mark .
Every year or two there have be a wedding in the big brick farmhouse , and one of old Esek 's girl have be the bride each time .
Julia and Grace and Celia and Betty and Theodosia and Clementina Stockard be all marry and go .
But Anne have never have another lover .
There have to be an old maid in every big family she say , and she be not go to marry Jerome Irving just for the sake of have Mrs. on her tombstone .
Old Esek and his wife have be put away in the Deep Meadows burying-ground .
The broad , fertile Stockard acre pass into Anne 's possession .
She be a good business-woman , and the farm continue to be the best in the district .
She keep two hire men and a servant girl , and the sixteen-year-old of her old sister live with her .
There be few visitor at the Stockard place now , but Jerome `` drop in '' every Saturday night with clockwork regularity and talk to Anne about her stock and advise her regard the rotation of her crop and the set out of her orchard .
And at ten o'clock he would take his hat and cane and tell Anne to be good to herself , and go home .
Anne have long since give up try to discourage him ; she even accept attention from him now that she have use to refuse .
He always walk home with her from evening meeting and be her partner in the game at quilt party .
It be great fun for the young folk .
`` Old Jerome and Anne '' be a stand joke in Deep Meadows .
But the old people have cease to expect anything to come of it .
Anne laugh at Jerome a she have always do , and would not have own for the world that she could have miss him .
Jerome be useful , she admit , and a comfortable friend ; and she would have like him well enough if he would only omit that ridiculous yearly ceremony of proposal .
It be Jerome 's fortieth birthday when Anne refuse him again .
He realize this a he go down the road in the moonlight , and doubt and dismay begin to creep into his heart .
Anne and he be both get old -- there be no disputing that fact .
It be high time that he bring her to term if he be ever go to .
Jerome be an easy-going mortal and always take thing placidly , but he do not mean to have all those fifteen year of patient court go for nothing He have think Anne would get tire of say no , sooner or later , and say yes , if for no other reason than to have a change ; but get tire do not seem to run in the Stockard blood .
She have say no that night just a coolly and decidedly and unsentimentally a she say it fifteen year before .
Jerome have the sensation of go around in a circle and never get any further on .
He make up his mind that something must be do , and just a he get to the brook that divide Deep Meadows West from Deep Meadows Central an idea strike him ; it be a good idea and amuse him .
He laugh aloud and slap his thigh , much to the amusement of two boy who be sit unnoticed on the railing of the bridge .
`` There 's old Jerome go home from see Anne Stockard , '' say one .
`` Wonder what on earth he 's laugh at .
Seems to me if I could n't get a wife without hoe a fifteen-year row , I 'd give up try . ''
But , then , the speaker be a Hamilton , and the Hamiltons never have any perseverance .
Jerome , although a well-to-do man , own a good farm , have , so to speak , no home of his own .
The old Irving homestead belong to his old brother , who have a wife and family .
Jerome live with them and be so used to it he do n't mind .
At forty a lover must not waste time .
Jerome think out the detail that night , and next day he open the campaign .
But it be not until the evening after that that Anne Stockard hear the news .
It be her niece , Octavia , who tell her .
The latter have be have a chat up the lane with Sam Mitchell , and come in with a broad smile on her round , rosy face and a twinkle in her eye .
`` I guess you 've lose your beau this time , Aunt Anne .
It look a if he mean to take you at your word at last . ''
`` What on earth do you mean ? ''
ask Anne , a little sharply .
She be in the pantry count egg , and Octavia 's interruption make her lose her count .
`` Now I ca n't remember whether it be six or seven dozen I say last .
I shall have to count them all over again .
I wish , Octavia , that you could think of something besides beaus all the time . ''
`` Well , but listen , '' persist Octavia wickedly .
`` Jerome Irving be at the social at the Cherry Valley parsonage last night , and he have Harriet Warren there -- take her there , and drive her home again . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' cry Anne , before she think .
She drop an egg into the basket so abruptly that the shell break .
`` Oh , it 's true enough .
Sam Mitchell tell me ; he be there and saw him .
Sam say he look quite beaming , and be dress to kill , and follow Harriet around like her shadow .
I guess you wo n't have any more bother with him , Aunt Anne . ''
In the process of pick the broken egg out of the whole one Anne have recover her equanimity .
She give a careful little laugh .
`` Well , it 's to be hop so .
Goodness know it 's time he try somebody else .
Go and change your dress for milking , Octavia , and do n't spend quite so much time gossip up the lane with Sam Mitchell .
He always be a fetch-and-carry .
Young girl ought n't to be so pert . ''
When the subdue Octavia have go , Anne toss the broken eggshell out of the pantry window viciously enough .
`` There 's no fool like an old fool .
Jerome Irving always be an idiot .
The idea of his go after Harriet Warren !
He 's old enough to be her father .
And a Warren , too !
I 've see the time an Irving would n't be see on the same side of the road with a Warren .
Well , anyhow , I do n't care , and he need n't suppose I will .
It will be a relief not to have him hang around any long . ''
It might have be a relief , but Anne felt strangely lonely a she walk home alone from prayer meet the next night .
Jerome have not be there .
The Warrens be Methodists and Anne rightly guess that he have go to the Methodist prayer meeting at Cherry Valley .
`` Dancing attendance on Harriet , '' she say to herself scornfully .
When she get home she look at her face in the glass more critically than she have do for year .
Anne Stockard at her best have never be pretty .
When young she have be call `` gawky . ''
She be very tall and her figure be lank and angular .
She have a long , pale face and dusky hair .
Her eye have be good -- a glimmering hazel , large and long-lashed .
They be pretty yet , but the crow 's foot about them be plainly visible .
There be bracket around her mouth too , and her cheek be hollow .
Anne suddenly realize , a she have never realize before , that she have grow old -- that her youth be leave far behind .
She be an old maid , and Harriet Warren be young , and pretty .
Anne 's long , thin lip suddenly quiver .
`` I declare , I 'm a bad fool than Jerome , '' she say angrily .
When Saturday night come Jerome do not .
The corner of the big , old-fashioned porch where he usually sit look bare and lonely .
Anne be short with Octavia and box the cat 's ear and rag at herself .
What do she care if Jerome Irving never come again ?
She could have marry him year ago if she have want to -- everybody know that !
At sunset she saw a buggy drive past her gate .
Even at that distance she recognize Harriet Warren 's handsome , high-coloured profile .
It be Jerome 's new buggy and Jerome be drive .
The wheel spoke flash in the sunlight a they creep up the hill .
Perhaps they dazzle Anne 's eye a little ; at least , for that or some other reason she dab her hand viciously over them a she turn sharply about and go upstairs .
Octavia be practise her music lesson in the parlour below and sing in a sweet shrill voice .
The hire men be laugh and talk in the yard .
Anne slam down her window and bang her door and then lay down on her bed ; she say her head ache .
The Deep Meadows people be amuse and make joke remark to Anne , which she have to take amiably because she have no excuse for resent them .
In reality they sting her pride unendurably .
When Jerome have go she realize that she have no other intimate friend and that she be a very lonely woman whom nobody care about .
One night -- it be three week afterward -- she meet Jerome and Harriet squarely .
She be walk to church with Octavia , and they be drive in the opposite direction .
Jerome have his new buggy and crimson lap robe .
His horse 's coat shone like satin and have rosette of crimson on his bridle .
Jerome be dress extremely well and look quite young , with his round , ruddy , clean-shaven face and clear blue eye .
Harriet be sit primly and consciously by his side ; she be a very handsome girl with bold eye and be somewhat overdressed .
She wear a big flowery hat and a white lace veil and look at Anne with a supercilious smile .
Anne felt dowdy and old ; she be very pale .
Jerome lift his hat and bow pleasantly a they drive past .
Suddenly Harriet laugh out .
Anne do not look back , but her face crimson darkly .
Was that girl laugh at her ?
She tremble with anger and a sharp , hurt feeling .
When she get home that night she sit a long while by her window .
Jerome be go -- and he let Harriet Warren laugh at her and he would never come back to her .
Well , it do not matter , but she have be a fool .
Only it have never occur to her that Jerome could act so .
`` If I 'd think he would I might n't have be so sharp with him , '' be as far a she would let herself go even in thought .
When four week have elapse Jerome come over one Saturday night .
He be flutter and anxious , but hide it in a masterly manner .
Anne be take by surprise .
She have not think he would ever come again , and be off her guard .
He have come around the porch corner abruptly a she stand there in the dusk , and she start very perceptibly .
`` Good evening , Anne , '' he say , easily and unblushingly .
Anne choke up .
She be very angry , or think she be .
Jerome appear not to notice her lack of welcome .
He sit coolly down in his old place .
His heart be beat like a hammer , but Anne do not know that .
`` I suppose , '' she say cuttingly , `` that you 're on your way down to the bridge .
It 's almost a pity for you to waste time stop here at all , any more than you have of late .
No doubt Harriet 'll be expect you . ''
A gleam of satisfaction flash over Jerome 's face .
He look shrewdly at Anne , who be not look at him , but be star uncompromisingly out over the poppy bed .
A jealous woman always give herself away .
If Anne have be indifferent she would not have give him that slap in the face .
`` I dunno 's she will , '' he reply coolly .
`` I do n't say for sure whether I 'd be down tonight or not .
It 's so long since I have a chat with you I think I 'd drop in for a spell .
But of course if I 'm not want I can go where I will be . ''
Anne could not get back her self-control .
Her nerve be `` all string up , '' a she would have say .
She have a feeling that she be right on the brink of a `` scene , '' but she could not help herself .
`` I guess it do n't matter much what I want , '' she say stonily .
`` At any rate , it have n't seem that way lately .
You do n't care , of course .
Oh , no !
Harriet Warren be all you care about .
Well , I wish you joy of her . ''
Jerome look puzzle , or pretend to .
In reality he be hug himself with delight .
`` I do n't just understand you , Anne , '' he say hesitatingly `` You appear to be vex about something . ''
`` I ?
Oh , no , I 'm not , Mr. Irving .
Of course old friend do n't count now .
Well , I 've no doubt new one will wear just as well . ''
`` If it 's about my go to see Harriet , '' say Jerome easily `` I do n't see a how it can matter much to you .
Goodness know , you take enough pain to show me you do n't want me .
I do n't blame you .
A woman have a right to please herself , and a man ought to have sense to take his answer and go .
I have n't , and that 's where I make my mistake .
I do n't mean to pester you any more , but we can be real good friend , ca n't we ?
I 'm sure I 'm a much your friend a ever I be . ''
Now , I hold that this speech of Jerome 's , deliver in a cool , matter-of-fact tone , a of a man state a case with dispassionate fairness , be a masterpiece .
It be the last cleverly execute movement of the campaign .
If it fail to effect a capitulation , he be a defeated man .
But it do not fail .
Anne have get to that point where an excited woman must go mad or cry .
Anne cry .
She sit flatly down on a chair and burst into tear .
Jerome 's hat go one way and his cane another .
Jerome himself spring across the intervening space and drop into the chair beside Anne .
He catch her hand in his and throw his arm boldly around her waist .
`` Goodness gracious , Anne !
Do you care after all ?
Tell me that ! ''
`` I do n't suppose it matter to you if I do , '' sob Anne .
`` It have n't seem to matter , anyhow . ''
`` Anne , look here !
Did n't I come after you for fifteen year ?
It 's you I always have want and want yet , if I can get you .
I do n't care a rap for Harriet Warren or anyone but you .
Now that 's the truth right out , Anne . ''
No doubt it be , and Anne be convince of it .
But she have to have her cry out -- on Jerome 's shoulder -- and it soothe her nerve wonderfully .
Later on Octavia , slip noiselessly up the step in the dusk , saw a sight that transfix her with astonishment .
When she recover herself she turn and flee wildly around the house , run bump into Sam Mitchell , who be come across the yard from a twilight conference with the hire men .
`` Goodness , Tavy , what 's the matter ?
Y ' look ` sif y 'd see a ghost . ''
Octavia lean up against the wall in spasm of mirth .
`` Oh , Sam , '' she gasp , `` old Jerome Irving and Aunt Anne be sit round there in the dark on the front porch and he have his arm around her , kiss her !
And they never saw nor hear me , no more 'n if they be deaf and blind ! ''
Sam give a tremendous whistle and then go off into a shout of laughter whose echo reach even to the gloom of the front porch and the ear of the lover .
But they do not know he be laugh at them and would not have care if they have .
They be too happy for that .
There be a wedding that fall and Anne Stockard be the bride .
When she be safely his , Jerome confess all and be graciously forgive .
`` But it be kind of mean to Harriet , '' say Anne rebukingly , `` to go with her and get her talk about and then drop her a you do .
Do n't you think so yourself , Jerome ? ''
Her husband 's eye twinkle .
`` Well , hardly that .
You see , Harriet 's engage to that Johnson fellow out west .
` Tai n't generally know , but I know it and that 's why I pick on her .
I think it probable that she 'd be willing enough to flirt with me for a little diversion , even if I be old .
Harriet 's that sort of a girl .
And I make up my mind that if that do n't fetch it nothing would and I 'd give up for good and all .
But it do , do n't it , Anne ? ''
`` I should say so .
It be horrid of you , Jerome -- but I daresay it 's just as well you do or I 'd likely never have find out that I could n't get along without you .
I do feel dreadful .
Poor Octavia could tell you I be as cross a X .
How do you come to think of it , Jerome ? ''
`` A fellow have to do something , '' say Jerome oracularly , `` and I 'd have do most anything to get you , Anne , that 's a fact .
And there it be -- court fifteen year and nothing to show for it .
I dunno , though , how I do come to think of it .
Guess it be a sort of inspiration .
Anyhow , I 've get you and that 's what I set out to do in the beginning . ''
Young Si Mr. Bentley have just drive into the yard with the new summer boarder .
Mrs. Bentley and Agnes be peep at her from behind the parlour curtain with the keen interest that they -- shut in by their restrict farm life -- always felt in any visitor from the outside world lie beyond their boundary of purple mist hill .
Mrs. Bentley be a plump , rosy-cheeked woman with a motherly smile .
Agnes be a fair , slim schoolgirl , as tall a her mother , with a sweet face and a promise of peach blossom prettiness in the year to come .
The arrival of a summer boarder be a great event in her quiet life .
`` Ai n't she pretty ? ''
whisper Mrs. Bentley admiringly , a the girl come slowly up the green slope before the house .
`` I do hope she 's nice .
You can generally calculate on men boarder , but girl be doubtful .
Preserve me from a cranky boarder !
I 've have enough of them .
I kinder like her look , though . ''
Ethel Lennox have pause at the front door a Mrs. Bentley and Agnes come into the hall .
Agnes gaze at the stranger with shy , unenvious admiration ; the latter stood on the stone step just where the big chestnut by the door cast flickering gleam and shadow over her dress and shin hair .
She be tall , and gown in some simple white material that fell about her in graceful fold .
She wear a cluster of pale pink rose at her belt , and a big , picturesque white hat shade her face and the glossy , cling mass of her red hair -- hair that be neither auburn nor chestnut but simply red .
Nor would anyone have wish it otherwise , have once see that glorious mass , with all it wonderful possibility of ripple luxuriance .
Her complexion be of that perfect , waxen whiteness that go with burnish red hair and the darkest of dilated violet eye .
Her delicately chiselled feature wear what might have be a somewhat too decided impress of spirit and independence , have it not be for the sweet mouth , red and dimple and curve , that part in a slow , charm smile a Mrs. Bentley come forward with her kindly welcome .
`` You must be real tired , Miss Lennox .
It 's a long drive from the train down here .
Agnes , show Miss Lennox up to her room , and tea will be ready when you come down . ''
Agnes come forward with the shy grace that always win friend for her , and the two girl go slowly up the broad , old-fashioned staircase , while Mrs. Bentley bustle away to bring in the tea and put a goblet of damask rose on the table .
`` She look like a picture , do n't she , John ? ''
she say to her husband .
`` I never saw such a face -- and that hair too .
Would you have believe red hair could be so handsome ?
She seem real friendly -- none of your stuck-up fine lady !
I 've have all I want of them , I can tell you ! ''
`` Sh -- sh -- sh ! ''
say Mr. Bentley warningly , a Ethel Lennox come in with her arm about Agnes .
She look even more lovely without her hat , with the soft red tendril of hair lie on her forehead .
Mrs. Bentley send a telegraphic message of admiration across the table to her husband , who be help the cold tongue and feel his way to a conversation .
`` You 'll find it pretty quiet here , Miss Lennox .
We 're plain folk and there ai n't much go and come .
Maybe you do n't mind that , though ? ''
`` I like it .
When one have be teach school all the year in a noisy city , quiet seem the one thing to be desire .
Besides , I like to fancy myself something of an artist .
I paint and sketch a little when I have time , and Miss Courtland , who be here last summer , say I could not find a more suitable spot .
So I come because I know that mackerel fishing be carry on along the shore , and I would have a chance to study character among the fisherman . ''
`` Well , the shore ai n't far away , and it 's pretty -- though maybe u folk here do n't appreciate it rightly , be a we 're so used to it .
Strangers be always go crazy over it ` picturesqueness , ' a they call it .
As for ` character , ' I reckon you 'll find all you want of that among the Pointers ; anyway , I never seed such critter a they be .
When you get tire of painting , maybe you can amuse yourself try to get to the bottom of our mystery . ''
`` Oh , have you a mystery ?
How interesting ! ''
`` Yes , a mystery -- a mystery , '' repeat Mr. Bentley solemnly , `` that nobody hai n't be able to solve so far .
I 've give it up -- so have everyone else .
Maybe you 'll have good luck . ''
`` But what be it ? ''
`` The mystery , '' say Mr. Bentley dramatically , `` be -- Young Si .
He 's the mystery .
Last spring , just when the herring struck in , a young chap suddenly appear at the Point .
He appear -- from what corner of the globe nobody hai n't ever be able to make out .
He buy a boat and a shanty down at my shore and go into a sort of mackerel partnership with Snuffy Curtis -- Snuffy supply the experience and this young fellow the cash , I reckon .
Snuffy 's as poor a Job 's turkey ; it be a windfall for him .
And there he 's fish all summer . ''
`` But his name -- Young Si ? ''
`` Well , of course , that be n't it .
He do give himself out a Brown , but nobody believe that 's his handle -- sound unnatteral here .
He buy his establishment from ` old Si , ' who use to fish down there and be a mysterious old critter in a way too .
So when this young fellow step in from goodness know where , some of the Pointers christen him Young Si for a joke , and he never get anything else .
Does n't seem to mind it .
He 's a moody , keep-to-himself sort of chap .
Yet he ai n't unpopular along shore , I believe .
Snuffy be tell me they like him real well , consider his unsociableness .
Anyways , he 's a handsome a chap a I ever seed , and well eddicated too .
He ai n't none of your ordinary fisherman .
Some of u kind of think he 's a runaway -- get into some scrape or another , maybe , and be skulk around here to keep out of jail .
But wife here wo n't give in to that . ''
`` No , I never will , '' say Mrs. Bentley firmly .
`` Young Si come here often for milk and butter , and he 's a perfect gentleman .
Nobody 'll ever convince me that he have do anything to be ashamed of , whatever 's his reason for waste his life down there at that shore . ''
`` He ai n't waste his life , '' chuckle Mr. Bentley .
`` He 's make money , Young Si be , though he do n't seem to care about that a mite .
This have be a big year for mackerel , and he 's smart .
If he do n't know much when he begin , he 's ahead of Snuffy now .
And a for work , I never saw his beat .
He seem possess .
Up afore sunrise every bless morning and never in bed till midnight , and just slave away all between time .
I say to him t ` other day , say I : ` Young Si , you 'll have to let up on this sort of thing and take a rest .
You ca n't stand it .
You 're not a Pointer .
Pointers can stand anything , but it 'll kill you . '
`` He give one of them bitter laugh of his .
Says he : ` It 's no difference if it do .
Nobody 'll care , ' and off he walk , sulky like .
There 's something about Young Si I ca n't understand , '' conclude Mr. Bentley .
Ethel Lennox be interested .
A melancholy , mysterious hero in a setting of silver-rimmed sand hill and wide blue sweep of ocean be something that ought to lend piquancy to her vacation .
`` I should like to see this prince in disguise , '' she say .
`` It all sound very romantic . ''
`` I 'll take you to the shore after tea if you 'd like , '' say Agnes eagerly .
`` Si 's just splendid , '' she continue in a confidential aside a they rise from the table .
`` Pa do n't half like him because he think there 's something queer about him .
But I do .
He 's a gentleman , a Ma say .
I do n't believe he 's do anything wrong . ''
* * * * * Ethel Lennox saunter out into the orchard to wait for Agnes .
She sit down under an apple tree and begin to read , but soon the book slip from her hand and the beautiful head lean back against the grey , lichened trunk of the old tree .
The sweet mouth droop wistfully .
There be a sad , far-away look in the violet eye .
The face be not that of a happy girl , so thought Agnes a she come down the apple tree avenue .
But how pretty she be !
she think .
Wo n't the folk around here stare at her !
They always do at our boarder , but we 've never have one like her .
Ethel spring up .
`` I have no idea you would be here so soon , '' she say brightly .
`` Just wait till I get my hat . ''
When she come out they start off , and presently find themselves walk down a grassy , deep-rutted lane that run through mown hay field , green with their rich aftergrowth , and sheet of pale ripen oat and golden-green wheat , until it lose itself in the rolling sand hill at the foot of the slope .
Beyond the sand hill stretch the shin expanse of the ocean , of the faint , bleach blue of hot August sea , and reach out into a horizon lace with long trail of pinkish cloud .
Numberless fishing boat dot the shimmering reach .
`` That furthest-off boat be Young Si 's , '' say Agnes .
`` He always go to that particular spot . ''
`` Is he really all your father say ? ''
ask Miss Lennox curiously .
`` Indeed , he be .
He be n't any more like the rest of the shore men than you be .
He 's queer , of course .
I do n't believe he 's happy .
It seem to me he 's worry over something , but I 'm sure it be nothing wrong .
Here we be , '' she add , a they pass the sand hill and come out on the long , level beach .
To their leave the shore curve around in a semi-circle of dazzle whiteness ; at their right stood a small grey fish-house .
`` That 's Young Si 's place , '' say Agnes .
`` He live there night and day .
Would n't it make anyone melancholy ?
No wonder he 's mysterious .
I 'm go to get his spyglass .
He tell me I might always use it . ''
She push open the door and enter , follow by Ethel .
The interior be rough but clean .
It be a small room , light by one tiny window look out on the water .
In one corner a rough ladder lead up to the loft above .
The bare lathed wall be hang with fish jacket , net , mackerel line and other shore appurtenance .
A little stove bore a kettle and a frying pan .
A low board table be strew with dish and the cold remnant of a hasty repast ; bench be place along the wall .
A fat , bewhisker kitten , look a if it be cut out of black velvet , be doze on the window sill .
`` This be Young Si 's cat , '' explain Agnes , pat the creature , which purr joyously and open it sleepy green eye .
`` It 's the only thing he care for , I believe .
Witch !
Witch !
How be you , Witch ?
Well , here 's the spyglass .
Let 's go out and have a look .
Si 's catch mackerel , '' announce Agnes a few minute later , after she have scrutinize each boat in turn , `` and he wo n't be in for an hour yet .
If you like , we have time for a walk up the shore . ''
The sun slip low and low in the creamy sky , leave a trail of sparkle that run across the water and lose itself in the west .
Sea gull soar and dip , and tiny `` sand peep '' flit along the beach .
Just a the red rim of the sun dip in the purpling sea , the boat begin to come in .
`` Most of them will go around to the Point , '' explain Agnes , with a contemptuous sweep of her hand towards a long headland run out before them .
`` They belong there and they 're a rough crowd .
You do n't catch Young Si associate with the Pointers .
There , he 's get up sail .
We 'll just have time to get back before he come in . ''
They hurry back across the dampening sand a the sun disappear , leave a fiery spot behind him .
The shore be no long quiet and desert .
The little spot where the fishing house stand have suddenly start into life .
Roughly clad boy be run hither and thither , carry fish or water .
The boat be haul up on the skid .
A couple of shaggy old tar , who have stroll over from the Point to hear about Young Si 's catch , be smoke their pipe at the corner of his shanty .
A mellow afterlight be shin over sea and shore .
The whole scene delight Ethel 's artist eye .
Agnes nudge her companion .
`` There !
If you want to see Young Si , '' she whisper , point to the skid , where a busy figure be discernible in a large boat , `` that 's him , with his back to u , in the cream-coloured boat .
He 's count out mackerel .
If you go over to that platform behind him , you 'll get a good look when he turn around .
I 'm go to coax a mackerel out of that stingy old Snuffy , if I can . ''
She trip off , and Ethel walk slowly over to the boat .
The men star at her in open-mouthed admiration a she pass them and walk out on the platform behind Young Si .
There be no one near the two .
The others be all assemble around Snuffy 's boat .
Young Si be throw out the mackerel with marvellous rapidity , but at the sound of a footstep behind him he turn and straighten up his tall form .
They stand face to face .
`` Miles ! ''
`` Ethel ! ''
Young Si stagger back against the mast , let two silvery bloater slip through his hand overboard .
His handsome , sunburn face be very white .
Ethel Lennox turn abruptly and silently and walk swiftly across the sand .
Agnes felt her arm touch , and turn to see Ethel stand , pale and erect , beside her .
`` Let u go home , '' say the latter unsteadily .
`` It be very damp here -- I feel chill . ''
`` Oh , dear ! ''
exclaim Agnes penitently .
`` I ought to have tell you to bring a shawl .
It be always damp on the shore after sunset .
Here , Snuffy , give me my mackerel .
Thank you .
I 'm ready now , Miss Lennox . ''
They reach the lane before Agnes remember to ask the question Ethel dread .
`` Oh , do you see Young Si ?
And what do you think of him ? ''
Ethel turn her face away and answer with studied carelessness .
`` He seem to be quite a superior fisherman so far a I could see in the dim light .
It be very dusky there , you know .
Let u walk a little faster .
My shoe be quite wet . ''
When they reach home , Miss Lennox excuse herself on the plea of weariness and go straight to her room .
* * * * * Back at the shore Young Si have recover himself and stoop again to his work .
His face be set and expressionless .
A dull red burn in each bronzed cheek .
He throw out the mackerel mechanically , but his hand tremble .
Snuffy stroll over to the boat .
`` See that handsome girl , Si ? ''
he ask lazily .
`` One of the Bentleys ' boarder , I hear .
Looks a if she might have step out of a picture frame , do n't she ? ''
`` We 've no time to waste , Curtis , '' say Young Si harshly , `` with all these fish to clean before bedtime .
Stop talk and get to work . ''
Snuffy shrug his shoulder and obey in silence .
Young Si be not a person to be trifle with .
The catch be large and it be late before they finish .
Snuffy survey the full barrel complacently .
`` Good day 's work , '' he mutter , `` but hard -- I 'm dead beat out .
` Low I 'll go to bed .
In the name o ' goodness , Si , whar be you a-goin ' to ? ''
Young Si have get into a dory and untie it .
He make no answer , but row out from the shore .
Snuffy star at the dory blankly until it be lose in the gloom .
`` Ef that do n't beat all ! ''
he ejaculate .
`` I wonder if Si be in his right sens ?
He 's be actin ' quar right along , and now to start off , Lord know whar , at this hour o ' night !
I really do n't believe it 's safe to stay here alone with him . ''
Snuffy shake his unkempt head dubiously .
Young Si row steadily out over the dark wave .
An eastern breeze be bring in a damp sea fog that blur darkly over the outline of horizon and shore .
The young fisherman find himself alone in a world of water and grey mist .
He stop row and lean forward on his oar .
`` To see her here , of all place ! ''
he mutter .
`` Not a word , scarcely a look , after all this long heartbreak !
Well , perhaps it be well so .
And yet to know she be so near !
How beautiful she be !
And I love her more than ever .
That be where the sting lie .
I think that in this rough life , amid all these rude association , where nothing could remind me of her , I might forget .
And now -- '' He clench his hand .
The mist be all around and about him , creep , impalpable , phantom-like .
The dory rock gently on the swell .
From afar come the low persistent murmur of the ocean .
* * * * * The next day Ethel Lennox decline to visit Si 's shore .
Instead she go to the Point and sketch all day .
She go again the next day and the next .
The Point be the most picturesque part of the shore , she aver , and the `` type '' among it inhabitant most interesting .
Agnes Bentley cease to suggest another visit to Si 's shore .
She have a vague perception that her companion do not care to discuss the subject .
At the end of a week Mrs. Bentley remark : `` What in the world can have happen to Young Si ?
It 's a whole week since he be here for milk or butter .
He ai n't sick , be he ? ''
Mr. Bentley chuckle amusedly .
`` I ` low I can tell you the reason of that .
Si 's get his stuff at Walden 's now .
I saw him go there twice this week .
` Liza Walden 's get ahead of you at last , Mary . ''
`` Well , I never do ! ''
say Mrs. Bentley .
`` Well , Young Si be the first that ever prefer ` Liza Walden 's butter to mine .
Everyone know what hers be like .
She never work her salt half in .
Well , Young Si 's welcome to it , I 'm sure ; I wish him joy of his exchange . ''
Mrs. Bentley rattle her dish ominously .
It be plain her faith in Young Si have receive a severe shock .
Upstairs in her room , Ethel Lennox , with a few undried tear glisten on her cheek , be write a letter .
Her lip be compressed and her hand tremble : `` I have discover that it be no use to run away from fate , '' she write .
`` No matter how hard we try to elude it , and how sure we be that we have succeed , it will rise and meet u where we least expect it .
I come down here tire and wear out , look for peace and rest -- and lo !
the most disquieting element of my life be here to confront me .
`` I 'm go to confess , Helen .
` Open confession be good for the soul , ' you know , and I shall treat myself to a good dose while the mood be on .
`` You know , of course , that I be once engage to Miles Lesley .
You also know that that engagement be break last autumn for unexplained reason .
Well , I will tell you all about it and then mail this letter speedily , before I change my mind .
`` It be over a year now since Miles and I first become engage .
As you be aware , his family be wealthy , and note for it exclusiveness .
I be a poor school teacher , and you may imagine with what horror his relative receive the news of Miles 's attention to one whom they consider his inferior .
Now that I have think the whole matter over calmly , I scarcely blame them .
It must be hard for aristocratic parent who have lavish every care upon a son , and cherish for him the high hope , when he turn from the woman of his own order to one consider beneath him in station .
But I do not view the subject in this light then ; and instead of decline his attention , a I perhaps should have do , I encourage them -- I love him so dearly , Nell !
-- and in spite of family opposition , Miles soon openly declare his attachment .
`` When his parent find they could not change his purpose , their affection for him force them into outward acquiescence , but their reluctant condescension be gall and wormwood to me .
I saw thing only from my own point of view , and be keenly sensitive to their politely conceal disapprobation , and my offended vanity find it victim in Miles .
I belong to the class who admit and resent slight , instead of ignore them , a do the high breed , and I think he would not see those offer to me .
I grow cold and formal to him .
He be very patient , but his way be not mine , and my manner puzzle and annoy him .
Our relation soon become strained , and the trifle necessary for an open quarrel be easily supply .
`` One evening I go to a large At Home give by his mother .
I know but few and , a Miles be necessarily busy with his social duty to her guest , I be , after the first hurry greeting , leave unattended for a time .
Not be accustom to such function , I resent this a a covert insult and , in a fit of jealous pique , I blush to own that I take the revenge of a peasant maid and enter into a marked flirtation with Fred Currie , who have pay me some attention before my engagement .
When Miles be at liberty to seek me , he find me , to all appearance , quite absorb in my companion and oblivious of his approach .
He turn on his heel and go away , nor do he come near me the rest of the evening .
`` I go home angry enough , but so miserable and repentant that if Miles have be his usual patient self when he call the following evening I would have beg his forgiveness .
But I have go too far ; his mother be shock by my gaucherie , and he be humiliate and justly exasperate .
We have a short , bitter quarrel .
I say a great many foolish , unpardonable thing , and finally I throw his ring at him .
He give me a startled look then , in which there be something of contempt , and go away without another word .
`` After my anger have pass , I be wretchedly unhappy .
I realize how unworthily I have act , how deeply I love Miles , and how lonely and empty my life would be without him .
But he do not come back , and soon after I learn he have go away -- whither no one knew , but it be suppose abroad .
Well , I bury my hope and tear in secret and go on with my life a people have to do -- a life in which I have learn to think , and which , I hope , have make me noble and well .
`` This summer I come here .
I heard much about a certain mysterious stranger know a ` Young Si ' who be fish mackerel at this shore .
I be very curious .
The story sound romantic , and one evening I go down to see him .
I meet him face to face and , Helen , it be Miles Lesley !
`` For one minute earth , sky and sea reel around me .
The next , I remember all , and turn and walk away .
He do not follow .
`` You may be sure that I now religiously avoid that part of the shore .
We have never meet since , and he have make no effort to see me .
He clearly show that he despise me .
Well , I despise myself .
I be very unhappy , Nell , and not only on my own account , for I feel that if Miles have never meet me , his mother would not now be break her heart for her absent boy .
My sorrow have teach me to understand hers , and I no longer resent her pride .
`` You need hardly be tell after this that I leave here in another week .
I can not fabricate a decent excuse to go sooner , or I would . ''
In the cool twilight Ethel go with Agnes Bentley to mail her letter .
As they stop at the door of the little country store , a young man come around the corner .
It be Young Si .
He be in his rough fishing suit , with a big herring net trailing over his shoulder , but no disguise could effectually conceal his splendid figure .
Agnes spring forward eagerly .
`` Si , where have you be ?
Why have you never I be up to see u for so long ? ''
Young Si make no verbal reply .
He merely lift his cap with formal politeness and turn on his heel .
`` Well , I never ! ''
exclaim Agnes , as soon a she recover her power of speech .
`` If that be how Young Si be go to treat his friend !
He must have get offend at something .
I wonder what it be , '' she add , her curiosity get the good of her indignation .
When they come out they saw the solitary figure of Young Si far adown , cross the dim , lonely shore field .
In the dusk Agnes fail to notice the pallor of her companion 's face and the unshed tear in her eye .
* * * * * `` I 've just be down to the Point , '' say Agnes , come in one sultry afternoon about a week later , `` and Little Ev say a there be no fishing today he 'd take u out for that sail tonight if you want to go . ''
Ethel Lennox put her draw away listlessly .
She look pale and tired .
She be go away the next day , and this be to be her last visit to the shore .
About an hour before sunset a boat glide out from the shadow of the Point .
In it be Ethel Lennox and Agnes , together with Little Ev , the sandy-haired , undersized Pointer who own the boat .
The evening be fine , and an off-shore breeze be freshen up rapidly .
They do not notice the long , dark bank of livid cloud low in the northwest .
`` Is n't this glorious ! ''
exclaim Ethel .
Her hat be strain back from her head and the red ring of her hair be blow about her face .
Agnes look about her more anxiously .
Wiser in matter of sea and shore than her companion , there be some indication she do not like .
Young Si , who be stand with Snuffy their skid , lower his spyglass with a start .
`` It be Agnes Bentley and -- and -- that boarder of theirs , '' he say anxiously , `` and they 've go out with Little Ev in that wretched , leaky tub of his .
Where be their eye that they ca n't see a squall come up ? ''
`` An ' Little Ev do n't know as much about manage a boat a a cat ! ''
exclaim Snuffy excitedly .
`` Sign 'em to come back . ''
Si shake his head .
`` They 're too far out .
I do n't know that the squall will amount to very much .
In a good boat , with someone who know how to manage it , they 'd be all right .
But with Little Ev -- '' He begin walk restlessly up and down the narrow platform .
The boat be now some distance out .
The breeze have stiffen to a slow strong wind and the dull-grey level of the sea be whip into white-caps .
Agnes bent towards Ethel .
`` It 's get too rough .
I think we 'd better go back .
I 'm afraid we 're in for a thunder squall .
Look at the cloud . ''
A long , sullen muttering verify her word .
`` Little Ev , '' she shout , `` we want to go in . ''
Little Ev , thus recall to thing about him , look around in alarm .
The girl question each other with glance of dismay .
The sky have grow very black , and the peal of thunder come loud and more continuously .
A jagged bolt of lightning hurtle over the horizon .
Over land and sea be `` the green , malignant light of coming storm . ''
Little Ev bring the boat 's head abruptly round a a few heavy drop of rain fell .
`` Ev , the boat be leak ! ''
shriek Agnes , above the wind .
`` The water 's come in ! ''
`` Bail her out then , '' shout Ev , struggle with the sail .
`` There 's two can under the seat .
I 've get to lower this sail .
Bail her out . ''
`` I 'll help you , '' say Ethel .
She be very pale , but her manner be calm .
Both girl bail energetically .
Young Si , watch through the glass , saw them .
He drop it and run to his boat , white and resolute .
`` They 've sprung a leak .
Here , Curtis , launch the boat .
We 've get to go out or Ev will drown them . ''
They shoot out from the shore just a the downpour come , blot out sea and land in one drive sheet of white rain .
`` Young Si be come off for u , '' say Agnes .
`` We 'll be all right if he get here in time .
This boat be go to sink , sure . ''
Little Ev be completely demoralize by fear .
The girl bail unceasingly , but the water gain every minute .
Young Si be none too soon .
`` Jump , Ev ! ''
he shout a his boat shot alongside .
`` Jump for your life ! ''
He drag Ethel Lennox in a he speak .
Agnes spring from one boat to the other like a cat , and Little Ev jump just a a thunderous crash seem to burst above them and air and sky be fill with blue flame .
The danger be past , for the squall have few difficulty for Si and Snuffy .
When they reach the shore , Agnes , who have quite recover from her fright , tuck her drip skirt about her and announce her determination to go straight home with Snuffy .
`` I ca n't get any wet than I be , '' she say cheerfully .
`` I 'll send Pa down in the buggy for Miss Lennox .
Light the fire in your shanty , Si , and let her get dry .
I 'll be as quick a I can . ''
Si pick Ethel up in his strong arm and carry her into the fish-house .
He place her on one of the low bench and hurriedly begin to kindle a fire .
Ethel sit up dazedly and push back the dripping mass of her bright hair .
Young Si turn and look down at her with a passionate light in his eye .
She put out her cold , wet hand wistfully .
`` Oh , Miles ! ''
she whisper .
Outside , the wind shake the frail building and tear the shudder sea to piece .
The rain pour down .
It be already settle in for a night of storm .
But , inside , Young Si 's fire be cast cheery flames over the rude room , and Young Si himself be kneel by Ethel Lennox with his arm about her and her head on his broad shoulder .
There be happy tear in her eye and her voice quiver a she say , `` Miles , can you forgive me ?
If you know how bitterly I have repent -- '' `` Never speak of the past again , my sweet .
In my lonely day and night down here by the sea , I have forget all but my love . ''
`` Miles , how do you come here ?
I think you be in Europe . ''
`` I do travel at first .
I come down here by chance , and resolve to cut myself utterly adrift from my old life and see if I could not forget you .
I be not very successful . ''
He smile down into her eye .
`` And you be go away tomorrow .
How perilously near we have be to not meet !
But how be we go to explain all this to our friend along shore ? ''
`` I think we have well not explain it at all .
I will go away tomorrow , a I intend , and you can quietly follow soon .
Let ` Young Si ' remain the mystery he have always be . ''
`` That will be best -- decidedly so .
They would never understand if we do tell them .
And I daresay they would be very much disappoint to find I be not a murderer or a forger or something of that sort .
They have always credit me with an evil past .
And you and I will go back to our own world , Ethel .
You will be welcome there now , sweet -- my family , too , have learn a lesson , and will do anything to promote my happiness . ''
Agnes drive Ethel Lennox to the station next day .
The fierce wind that have sweep over land and sea seem to have blow away all the hazy vapour and oppressive heat in the air , and the morning dawn a clear and fresh a if the sad old earth with all her passionate tear have cleanse herself from sin and stain and come forth radiantly pure and sweet .
Ethel bubble over with joyousness .
Agnes wonder at the change in her .
`` Good-bye , Miss Lennox , '' she say wistfully .
`` You 'll come back to see u some time again , wo n't you ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' smile Ethel , `` and if not , Agnes , you must come and see me .
Some day I may tell you a secret . ''
About a week later Young Si suddenly vanish , and his disappearance be a nine-day 's talk along shore .
His departure be as mysterious a his advent .
It leak out that he have quietly dispose of his boat and shanty to Snuffy Curtis , send his mackerel off and , that do , slip from the Pointers ' life , never more to re-enter them .
Little Ev be the last of the Pointers to see him tramp along the road to the station in the dusk of the autumn twilight .
And the next morning Agnes Bentley , go out of door before the others , find on the doorstep a basket contain a small , vociferous black kitten with a card attach to it neck .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1904.txt.out
A Fortunate Mistake `` Oh , dear !
oh , dear ! ''
fret Nan Wallace , twist herself about uneasily on the sofa in her pretty room .
`` I never think before that the day could be so long a they be now . ''
`` Poor you ! ''
say her sister Maude sympathetically .
Maude be move briskly about the room , put it into the beautiful order that Mother insist on .
It be Nan 's week to care for their room , but Nan have sprain her ankle three day ago and could do nothing but lie on the sofa ever since .
And very tired of it , too , be wide-awake , active Nan .
`` And the picnic this afternoon , too ! ''
she sigh .
`` I 've look forward to it all summer .
And it 's a perfect day -- and I 've get to stay here and nurse this foot . ''
Nan look vindictively at the bandaged member , while Maude lean out of the window to pull a pink climb rise .
As she do so she nod to someone in the village street below .
`` Who be pass ? ''
ask Nan .
`` Florrie Hamilton . ''
`` Is she go to the picnic ? ''
ask Nan indifferently .
`` No .
She be n't ask .
Of course , I do n't suppose she expect to be .
She know she be n't in our set .
She must feel horribly out of place at school .
A lot of the girl say it be ridiculous of her father to send her to Miss Braxton 's private school -- a factory overseer 's daughter . ''
`` She ought to have be ask to the picnic all the same , '' say Nan shortly .
`` She be in our class if she be n't in our set .
Of course I do n't suppose she would have enjoy herself -- or even go at all , for that matter .
She certainly do n't push herself in among u .
One would think she have n't a tongue in her head . ''
`` She be the best student in the class , '' admit Maude , arrange her rose in a vase and put them on the table at Nan 's elbow .
`` But Patty Morrison and Wilhelmina Patterson have the most to say about the invitation , and they would n't have her .
There , Nannie dear , be n't those lovely ?
I 'll leave them here to be company for you . ''
`` I 'm go to have more company than that , '' say Nan , thump her pillow energetically .
`` I 'm not go to mope here alone all the afternoon , with you off have a jolly time at the picnic .
Write a little note for me to Florrie Hastings , will you ?
I 'll do as much for you when you sprain your foot . ''
`` What shall I put in it ? ''
say Maude , rummage out her portfolio obligingly .
`` Oh , just ask her if she will come down and cheer a poor invalid up this afternoon .
She 'll come , I know .
And she be such good company .
Get Dickie to run right out and mail it . ''
`` I do wonder if Florrie Hamilton will feel hurt over not be ask to the picnic , '' speculate Maude absently a she slip her note into an envelope and address it .
Florrie Hamilton herself could best have answer that question a she walk along the street in the fresh morning sunshine .
She do feel hurt -- much more keenly than she would acknowledge even to herself .
It be not that she care about the picnic itself : a Nan Wallace have say , she would not have be likely to enjoy herself if she have go among a crowd of girl many of whom look down on her and ignore her .
But to be leave out when every other girl in the school be invite !
Florrie 's lip quiver a she think of it .
`` I 'll get Father to let me to go to the public school after vacation , '' she murmur .
`` I hate go to Miss Braxton 's . ''
Florrie be a newcomer in Winboro .
Her father have recently come to take a position in the large factory of the small town .
For this reason Florrie be slight at school by some of the ruder girl and severely leave alone by most of the others .
Some , it be true , try at the start to be friend , but Florrie , too keenly sensitive to the atmosphere around her to respond , be believe to be decidedly dull and mopy .
She retreat far and far into herself and be almost a solitary at Miss Braxton 's a if she have be on a desert island .
`` They do n't like me because I be plainly dress and because my father be not a wealthy man , '' think Florrie bitterly .
And there be enough truth in this in regard to many of Miss Braxton 's girl to make a very uncomfortable state of affair .
`` Here 's a letter for you , Flo , '' say her brother Jack at noon .
`` Got it at the office on my way home .
Who be your swell correspondent ? ''
Florrie open the dainty , perfume note and read it with a face that , puzzle at first , suddenly grow radiant .
`` Listen , Jack , '' she say excitedly .
`` Dear Florrie : `` Nan be confine to house , room , and sofa with a sprained foot .
As she will be all alone this afternoon , wo n't you come down and spend it with her ?
She very much want you to come -- she be so lonesome and think you will be just the one to cheer her up .
`` Yours cordially , `` Maude Wallace . ''
`` Are you go ? ''
ask Jack .
`` Yes -- I do n't know -- I 'll think about it , '' say Florrie absently .
Then she hurry upstairs to her room .
`` Shall I go ? ''
she think .
`` Yes , I will .
I dare say Nan have ask me just out of pity because I be not invite to the picnic .
But even so it be sweet of her .
I 've always think I would like those Wallace girl if I could get really acquaint with them .
They 've always be nice to me , too -- I do n't know why I be always so tongue-tied and stupid with them .
But I 'll go anyway . ''
That afternoon Mrs. Wallace come into Nan 's room .
`` Nan , dear , Florrie Hamilton be downstairs ask for you . ''
`` Florrie -- Hamilton ? ''
`` Yes .
She say something about a note you send her this morning .
Shall I ask her to come up ? ''
`` Yes , of course , '' say Nan lamely .
When her mother have go out she fell back on her pillow and think rapidly .
`` Florrie Hamilton !
Maude must have address that note to her by mistake .
But she must n't know it be a mistake -- must n't suspect it .
Oh , dear !
What shall I ever find to talk to her about ?
She be so quiet and shy . ''
Further reflection be cut short by Florrie 's entrance .
Nan hold out her hand with a chummy smile .
`` It 's good of you to give your afternoon up to visit a cranky invalid , '' she say heartily .
`` You do n't know how lonesome I 've be since Maude go away .
Take off your hat and pick out the nice chair you can find , and let 's be comfy . ''
Somehow , Nan 's frank greeting do away with Florrie 's embarrassment and make her feel at home .
She sit down in Maude 's rocker , then , glance over to a vase fill with rose , her eye kindle with pleasure .
Seeing this , Nan say , `` Are n't they lovely ?
We Wallaces be very fond of our climb rose .
Our great-grandmother bring the root out from England with her sixty year ago , and they grow nowhere else in this country . ''
`` I know , '' say Florrie , with a smile .
`` I recognize them as soon a I come into the room .
They be the same kind of rose a those which grow about Grandmother Hamilton 's house in England .
I use to love them so . ''
`` In England !
Were you ever in England ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' laugh Florrie .
`` And I 've be in pretty nearly every other country upon earth -- every one that a ship could get to , at least . ''
`` Why , Florrie Hamilton !
Are you in earnest ? ''
`` Indeed , yes .
Perhaps you do n't know that our ` now-mother , ' a Jack say sometimes , be Father 's second wife .
My own mother die when I be a baby , and my aunt , who have no child of her own , take me to bring up .
Her husband be a sea-captain , and she always go on his sea-voyages with him .
So I go too .
I almost grow up on shipboard .
We have delightful time .
I never go to school .
Auntie have be a teacher before her marriage , and she teach me .
Two year ago , when I be fourteen , Father marry again , and then he want me to go home to him and Jack and our new mother .
So I do , although at first I be very sorry to leave Auntie and the dear old ship and all our lovely wandering . ''
`` Oh , tell me all about them , '' demand Nan .
`` Why , Florrie Hamilton , to think you 've never say a word about your wonderful experience !
I love to hear about foreign country from people who have really be there .
Please just talk -- and I 'll listen and ask question . ''
Florrie do talk .
I 'm not sure whether she or Nan be the more surprised to find that she could talk so well and describe her travel so brightly and humorously .
The afternoon pass quickly , and when Florrie go away at dusk , after a dainty tea serve up in Nan 's room , it be with a cordial invitation to come again soon .
`` I 've enjoy your visit so much , '' say Nan sincerely .
`` I 'm go down to see you as soon a I can walk .
But do n't wait for that .
Let u be good , chummy friend without any ceremony . ''
When Florrie , with a light heart and a happy smile , have go , come Maude , sunburn and glow from her picnic .
`` Such a nice time a we have ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Was n't I sorry to think of you cooped up here !
Did Florrie come ? ''
`` One Florrie do .
Maude , you address that note to Florrie Hamilton today instead of Florrie Hastings . ''
`` Nan , surely not !
I 'm sure -- '' `` Yes , you do .
And she come here .
Was I not take aback at first , Maude ! ''
`` I be think about her when I address it , and I must have put her name down by mistake .
I 'm so sorry -- '' `` You need n't be .
I have n't be entertain so charmingly for a long while .
Why , Maude , she have travel almost everywhere -- and be so bright and witty when she thaw out .
She do n't seem like the same girl at all .
She be just perfectly lovely ! ''
`` Well , I 'm glad you have such a nice time together .
Do you know , some of the girl be very much vexed because she be n't ask to the picnic .
They say that it be sheer rudeness not to ask her , and that it reflect on u all , even if Patty and Wilhelmina be responsible for it .
I 'm afraid we girls at Miss Braxton 's have be get snobbish , and some of u be begin to find it out and be ashamed of it . ''
`` Just wait until school open , '' say Nan -- vaguely enough , it would seem .
But Maude understood .
However , they do not have to wait until school open .
Long before that time Winboro girlhood discover that the Wallace girl be take Florrie Hamilton into their life .
If the Wallace girl like her , there must be something in the girl more than be at first thought -- thus more than one of Miss Braxton 's girl reason .
And gradually the other girl find , a Nan have find , that Florrie be full of fun and an all-round good companion when drawn out of her diffidence .
When Miss Braxton 's school reopen Florrie be the class favourite .
Between her and Nan Wallace a beautiful and helpful friendship have be form which be to grow and deepen through their whole life .
`` And all because Maude in a fit of abstraction write ` Hamilton ' for ` Hastings , ' '' say Nan to herself one day .
But that be something Florrie Hamilton will never know .
An Unpremeditated Ceremony Selwyn Grant saunter in upon the assembled family at the homestead a if he be return from an hour 's absence instead of a western sojourn of ten year .
Guided by the sound of voice on the still , pungent autumnal air , he go around to the door of the dining room which open directly on the poppy walk in the garden .
Nobody notice him for a moment and he stand in the doorway look at them with a smile , wonder what be the reason of the festal air that hung about them all as visibly a a garment .
His mother sat by the table , industriously polish the best silver spoon , which , a he remember , be only brought forth upon some great occasion .
Her eye be a bright , her form a erect , her nose -- the Carston nose -- a pronounced and aristocratic a of yore .
Selwyn saw little change in her .
But be it possible that the tall , handsome young lady with the sleek brown pompadour and a nose unmistakably and plebeianly Grant , who sit by the window do something to a heap of lace and organdy in her lap , be the little curly-headed , sunburned sister of thirteen whom he remember ?
The young man lean against the sideboard must be Leo , of course ; a fine-looking , broad-shouldered young fellow who make Selwyn think suddenly that he must be grow old .
And there be the little , thin , grey father in the corner , peer at his newspaper with nearsighted eye .
Selwyn 's heart give a bound at the sight of him which not even his mother have cause .
Dear old Dad !
The year have be kind to him .
Mrs. Grant hold up a glistening spoon and survey it complacently .
`` There , I think that be bright enough even to suit Margaret Graham .
I shall take over the whole two dozen tea and one dozen dessert .
I wish , Bertha , that you would tie a red cord around each of the handle for me .
The Carmody spoon be the same pattern and I shall always be convince that Mrs. Carmody carry off two of ours the time that Jenny Graham be marry .
I do n't mean to take any more risk .
And , Father -- '' Something make the mother look around , and she saw her first-born !
When the commotion be over Selwyn ask why the family spoon be be rub up .
`` For the wedding , of course , '' say Mrs. Grant , polish her gold-bowed spectacle and decide that there be no more time for tear and sentiment just then .
`` And there , they 're not half do -- and we 'll have to dress in another hour .
Bertha be no earthly use -- she be so take up with her bridesmaid finery . ''
`` Wedding ?
Whose wedding ? ''
demand Selwyn , in bewilderment .
`` Why , Leo 's , of course .
Leo be to be marry tonight .
Did n't you get your invitation ?
Was n't that what bring you home ? ''
`` Hand me a chair , quick , '' implore Selwyn .
`` Leo , be you go to commit matrimony in this headlong fashion ?
Are you sure you 're grow up ? ''
`` Six foot be a pretty good imitation of it , be n't it ? ''
grin Leo .
`` Brace up , old fellow .
It 's not so bad a it might be .
She 's quite a respectable girl .
We write you all about it three week ago and break the news as gently a possible . ''
`` I leave for the East a month ago and have be wander around prey on old college chum ever since .
Have n't see a letter .
There , I 'm well now .
No , you need n't fan me , Sis .
Well , no family can get through the world without it season of tribulation .
Who be the party of the second part , little brother ? ''
`` Alice Graham , '' reply Mrs. Grant , who have a habit of speaking for her child , none of whom have the Carston nose .
`` Alice Graham !
That child ! ''
exclaim Selwyn in astonishment .
Leo roar .
`` Come , come , Sel , perhaps we 're not very progressive here in Croyden , but we do n't actually stand still .
Girls be apt to stretch out some between ten and twenty , you know .
You old bachelor think nobody ever grow up .
Why , Sel , you 're grey around your temple . ''
`` Too well I know it , but a man 's own brother should n't be the first to cast such thing up to him .
I 'll admit , since I come to think of it , that Alice have probably grow big .
Is she any better-looking than she use to be ? ''
`` Alice be a charming girl , '' say Mrs. Grant impressively .
`` She be a beauty and she be also sweet and sensible , which beauty be not always .
We be all very much please with Leo 's choice .
But we have really no more time to spare just now .
The wedding be at seven o'clock and it be four already . ''
`` Is there anybody you can send to the station for my luggage ? ''
ask Selwyn .
`` Luckily I have a new suit , otherwise I should n't have the face to go . ''
`` Well , I must be off , '' say Mrs. Grant .
`` Father , take Selwyn away so that I sha n't be tempt to waste time talk to him . ''
In the library father and son look at each other affectionately .
`` Dad , it 's a blessing to see you just the same .
I 'm a little dizzy with all these change .
Bertha grow up and Leo within an inch of be marry !
To Alice Graham at that , whom I ca n't think of yet a anything else than the long-legged , black-eyed imp of mischief she be when a kiddy .
To tell you the truth , Dad , I do n't feel in a mood for go to a wedding at Wish-ton-wish tonight .
I 'm sure you do n't either .
You 've always hat fuss .
Ca n't we shirk it ? ''
They smile at each other with chummy remembrance of many a family festival they have `` shirk '' together in the old day .
But Mr. Grant shake his head .
`` Not this time , sonny .
There be some thing a decent man ca n't shirk and one of them be his own boy 's wedding .
It 's a nuisance , but I must go through with it .
You 'll understand how it be when you 're a family man yourself .
By the way , why be n't you a family man by this time ?
Why have n't I be put to the bother and inconvenience of attend your wedding before now , son ? ''
Selwyn laugh , with a little vibrant note of bitterness in the laughter , which the father 's quick ear detect .
`` I 've be too busy with law book , Dad , to find me a wife . ''
Mr. Grant shake his bushy grey head .
`` That 's not the real reason , son .
The world have a wife for every man ; if he have n't find her by the time he 's thirty-five , there 's some real reason for it .
Well , I do n't want to pry into yours , but I hope it 's a sound one and not a mean , sneak , selfish sort of reason .
Perhaps you 'll choose a Madam Selwyn some day yet .
In case you should I 'm go to give you a small bit of good advice .
Your mother -- now , she 's a splendid woman , Selwyn , a splendid woman .
She ca n't be match a a housekeeper and she have improve my finance until I do n't know them when I meet them .
She 's be a good wife and a good mother .
If I be a young man I 'd court her and marry her over again , that I would .
But , son , when you pick a wife pick one with a nice little commonplace nose , not a family nose .
Never marry a woman with a family nose , son . ''
A woman with a family nose come into the library at this juncture and beam maternally upon them both .
`` There 's a bite for you in the dining room .
After you 've eat it you must dress .
Mind you brush your hair well down , Father .
The green room be ready for you , Selwyn .
Tomorrow I 'll have a good talk with you , but tonight I 'll be too busy to remember you 're around .
How be we all go to get over to Wish-ton-wish ?
Leo and Bertha be go in the pony carriage .
It wo n't hold a third passenger .
You 'll have to squeeze in with Father and me in the buggy , Selwyn . ''
`` By no mean , '' reply Selwyn briskly .
`` I 'll walk over to Wish-ton-wish .
Ifs only half a mile across lot .
I suppose the old way be still open ? ''
`` It ought to be , '' answer Mr. Grant drily ; `` Leo have keep it well trodden .
If you 've forget how it run he can tell you . ''
`` I have n't forget , '' say Selwyn , a little brusquely .
He have his own reason for remember the wood path .
Leo have not be the first Grant to go court to Wish-ton-wish .
When he start , the moon be rise round and red and hazy in an eastern hill-gap .
The autumn air be mild and spicy .
Long shadow stretch across the field on his right and silvery mosaic pattern the floor of the old beechwood lane .
Selwyn walk slowly .
He be think of Esme Graham or , rather , of the girl who have be Esme Graham , and wonder if he would see her at the wedding .
It be probable , and he do not want to see her .
In spite of ten year ' effort , he do not think he could yet look upon Tom St. Clair 's wife with the proper calm indifference .
At the best , it would taint his own memory of her ; he would never again be able to think of her a Esme Graham but only a Esme St. Clair .
The Grahams have come to Wish-ton-wish eleven year before .
There be a big family of girl of whom the tall , brown-haired Esme be the old .
There be one summer during which Selwyn Grant have haunt Wish-ton-wish , the merry comrade of the young girl , the boyishly , silently devote lover of Esme .
Tom St. Clair have always be there too , in his right a second cousin , Selwyn have suppose .
One day he find out that Tom and Esme have be engage ever since she be sixteen ; one of her sister tell him .
That have be all .
He have go away soon after , and some time later a letter from home make casual mention of Tom St. Clair 's marriage .
He narrowly miss be late for the wedding ceremony .
The bridal party enter the parlour at Wish-ton-wish at the same moment a he slip in by another door .
Selwyn almost whistle with amazement at sight of the bride .
That Alice Graham , that tall , stately , blush young woman , with her mass of dead-black hair , frost over by the film of wed veil !
Could that be the scrawny little tomboy of ten year ago ?
She look not unlike Esme , with that subtle family resemblance that be quite independent of feature and colouring .
Where be Esme ?
Selwyn cast his eye furtively over the assembled guest while the minister read the marriage ceremony .
He recognize several of the Graham girl but he do not see Esme , although Tom St. Clair , stout and florid and prosperous-looking , be stand on a chair in a faraway corner , peer over the head of the woman .
After the turmoil of handshaking and congratulation , Selwyn flee to the cool , still outdoors , where the rosy glow of Chinese lantern mingle with the wave of moonshine to make fairyland .
And there he meet her , a she come out of the house by a side door , a tall , slender woman in some glistening , cling garment , with white flower shin like star in the coil of her brown hair .
In the soft glow she look even more beautiful than in the day of her girlhood , and Selwyn 's heart throb dangerously at sight of her .
`` Esme ! ''
he say involuntarily .
She start , and he have an idea that she change colour , although it be too dim to be sure .
`` Selwyn ! ''
she exclaim , put out her hand .
`` Why , Selwyn Grant !
Is it really you ?
Or be you such stuff a dream be make of ?
I do not know you be here .
I do not know you be home . ''
He catch her hand and hold them tightly , draw her a little close to him , forget that she be Tom St. Clair 's wife , remember only that she be the woman to whom he have give all his love and life 's devotion , to the entire beggaring of his heart .
`` I reach home only four hour ago , and be hale straightway here to Leo 's wedding .
I 'm dizzy , Esme .
I ca n't adjust my old conception to this new state of affair all at once .
It seem ridiculous to think that Leo and Alice be marry .
I 'm sure they ca n't be really grow up . ''
Esme laugh a she draw away her hand .
`` We be all ten year old , '' she say lightly .
`` Not you .
You be more beautiful than ever , Esme .
That sunflower compliment be permissible in an old friend , be n't it ? ''
`` This mellow glow be kinder to me than sunlight now .
I be thirty , you know , Selwyn . ''
`` And I have some grey hair , '' he confess .
`` I know I have them but I have a sneak hope that other folk do n't until Leo destroy it today .
These young brother and sister who wo n't stay child be nuisance .
You 'll be tell me next thing that ` Baby ' be grow up . '' ''
` Baby ' be eighteen and have a beau , '' laugh Esme .
`` And I give you fair warn that she insist on be call Laura now .
Do you want to come for a walk with me -- down under the beech to the old lane gate ?
I come out to see if the fresh air would do my bit of a headache good .
I shall have to help with the supper later on . ''
They go slowly across the lawn and turn into a dim , moonlight lane beyond , their old favourite ramble .
Selwyn felt like a man in a dream , a pleasant dream from which he dread to awaken .
The voice and laughter echo out from the house die away behind them and the great silence of the night fell about them a they come to the old gate , beyond which be a range of shin , moonlight-misted field .
For a little while neither of them speak .
The woman look out across the white space and the man watch the glimmer curve of her neck and the soft darkness of her rich hair .
How virginal , how sacred , she look !
The thought of Tom St. Clair be a sacrilege .
`` It 's nice to see you again , Selwyn , '' say Esme frankly at last .
`` There be so few of our old set leave , and so many of the baby grow up .
Sometimes I do n't know my own world , it have change so .
It 's an uncomfortable feeling .
You give me a pleasant sensation of really belong here .
I 'd be lonesome tonight if I dare .
I 'm go to miss Alice so much .
There will be only Mother and Baby and I leave now .
Our family circle have dwindle woefully . ''
`` Mother and Baby and you ! ''
Selwyn felt his head whirl again .
`` Why , where be Tom ? ''
He felt that it be an idiotic question , but it slip from his tongue before he could catch it .
Esme turn her head and look at him wonderingly .
He know that in the sunlight her eye be a mistily blue a early meadow violet , but here they look dark and unfathomably tender .
`` Tom ? ''
she say perplexedly .
`` Do you mean Tom St. Clair ?
He be here , of course , he and his wife .
Did n't you see her ?
That pretty woman in pale pink , Lil Meredith .
Why , you use to know Lil , do n't you ?
One of the Uxbridge Merediths ? ''
To the day of his death Selwyn Grant will firmly believe that if he have not clutch fast hold of the top bar of the gate he would have tumble down on the moss under the beech in speechless astonishment .
All the surprise of that surprising evening be a nothing to this .
He have a swift conviction that there be no word in the English language that could fully express his feeling and that it would be a waste of time to try to find any .
Therefore he lay hold of the first baldly commonplace one that come handy and say tamely , `` I think you be marry to Tom . ''
`` You -- think -- I -- be -- married -- to -- Tom ! ''
repeat Esme slowly .
`` And have you think that all these year , Selwyn Grant ? ''
`` Yes , I have .
Is it any wonder ?
You be engage to Tom when I go away , Jenny tell me you be .
And a year later Bertha write me a letter in which she make some reference to Tom 's marriage .
She do n't say to whom , but have n't I the right to suppose it be to you ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
The word be partly a sigh and partly a little cry of long-concealed , long-denied pain .
`` It 's be all a funny misunderstanding .
Tom and I be engage once -- a boy-and-girl affair in the beginning .
Then we both find out that we have make a mistake -- that what we have think be love be merely the affection of good comrade .
We break our engagement shortly before you go away .
All the old girl know it be break but I suppose nobody mention the matter to Jen .
She be such a child , we never think about her .
And you 've think I be Tom 's wife all this time ?
It 's -- funny . ''
`` Funny .
You mean tragic !
Look here , Esme , I 'm not go to risk any more misunderstanding .
There 's nothing for it but plain talk when matter get to such a state a this .
I love you -- and I 've love you ever since I meet you .
I go away because I could not stay here and see you marry to another man .
I 've stay away for the same reason .
Esme , be it too late ?
Did you ever care anything for me ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' she say slowly .
`` Do you care still ? ''
he ask .
She hide her face against his shoulder .
`` Yes , '' she whisper .
`` Then we 'll go back to the house and be marry , '' he say joyfully .
Esme break away and star at him .
`` Married ! ''
`` Yes , marry .
We 've waste ten year and we 're not go to waste another minute .
We 're not , I say . ''
`` Selwyn !
It 's impossible . ''
`` I have expurgate that word from my dictionary .
It 's the very simple thing when you look at it in an unprejudiced way .
Here be a ready-made wedding and decoration and assembled guest , a minister on the spot and a state where no licence be require .
You have a very pretty new dress on and you love me .
I have a plain gold ring on my little finger that will fit you .
Are n't all the condition fulfil ?
Where be the sense of wait and have another family upheaval in a few week ' time ? ''
`` I understand why you have make such a success of the law , '' say Esme , `` but -- '' `` There be no buts .
Come with me , Esme .
I 'm go to hunt up your mother and mine and talk to them . ''
Half an hour later an astonishing whisper go circulate among the guest .
Before they could grasp it significance Tom St. Clair and Jen 's husband , broadly smile , be hustle scattered folk into the parlour again and make clear a passage in the hall .
The minister come in with his blue book , and then Selwyn Grant and Esme Graham walk in hand in hand .
When the second ceremony be over , Mr. Grant shake his son 's hand vigorously .
`` There 's no need to wish you happiness , son ; you 've get it .
And you 've make one fuss and bother do for both wedding , that 's what I call genius .
And '' -- this in a careful whisper , while Esme be temporarily obliterate in Mrs. Grant 's capacious embrace -- `` she 's get the right sort of a nose .
But your mother be a grand woman , son , a grand woman . ''
At the Bay Shore Farm The Newburys be agog with excitement over the Governor 's picnic .
As they talk it over on the verandah at sunset , they felt that life could not be worth live to those unfortunate people who have not be invite to it .
Not that there be many of the latter in Claymont , for it be the Governor 's native village , and the Claymonters be get up the picnic for him during his political visit to the city fifteen mile away .
Each of the Newburys have a special reason for wish to attend the Governor 's picnic .
Ralph and Elliott want to see the Governor himself .
He be a pet hero of theirs .
Had he not once be a Claymont lad just like themselves ?
Had he not rise to the high office in the state by dint of sheer hard work and persistency ?
Had he not win a national reputation by his prompt and decisive measure during the big strike at Campden ?
And be he not a man , personally and politically , whom any boy might be proud to imitate ?
Yes , to all of these question .
Hence to the Newbury boys the interest of the picnic centre in the Governor .
`` I shall feel two inch taller just to get a look at him , '' say Ralph enthusiastically .
`` He be n't much to look at , '' say Frances , rather patronizingly .
`` I saw him once at Campden -- he come to the school when his daughter be graduate .
He be bald and fat .
Oh , of course , he be famous and all that !
But I want to go to the picnic to see Sara Beaumont .
She 's to be there with the Chandlers from Campden , and Mary Spearman , who know her by sight , be go to point her out to me .
I suppose it would be too much to expect to be introduce to her .
I shall probably have to content myself with just look at her . ''
Ralph resent hear the Governor call bald and fat .
Somehow it seem a if his hero be be reduce to the level of common clay .
`` That 's like a girl , '' he say loftily ; `` think more about a woman who write book than about a man like the Governor ! ''
`` I 'd rather see Sara Beaumont than forty governor , '' retort Frances .
`` Why , she 's famous -- and her book be perfect !
If I could ever hope to write anything like them !
It 's be the dream of my life just to see her ever since I read The Story of Idlewild .
And now to think that it be to be fulfil !
It seem too good to be true that tomorrow -- tomorrow , Newburys , -- I shall see Sara Beaumont ! ''
`` Well , '' say Cecilia gently -- Cecilia be always gentle even in her enthusiasm -- `` I shall like to see the Governor and Sara Beaumont too .
But I 'm go to the picnic more for the sake of see Nan Harris than anything else .
It 's three year since she go away , you know , and I 've never have another chum whom I love so dearly .
I 'm just look forward to meet her and talk over all our dear , good old time .
I do wonder if she have change much .
But I be sure I shall know her . ''
`` By her red hair and her freckle ? ''
question Elliott teasingly .
`` They 'll be the same a ever , I 'll be bind . ''
Cecilia flush and look as angry a she could -- which be n't say much , after all .
She do n't mind when Elliott tease her about her pug nose and her big mouth , but it always hurt her when he make fun of Nan .
Nan 's family have once live across the street from the Newburys .
Nan and Cecilia have be playmate all through childhood , but when both girl be fourteen the Harrises have move out west .
Cecilia have never see Nan since .
But now the latter have come east for a visit , and be with her relative in Campden .
She be to be at the picnic , and Cecilia 's cup of delight brim over .
Mrs. Newbury come briskly into the middle of their sunset plan .
She have be down to the post office , and she carry an open letter in her hand .
`` Mother , '' say Frances , straighten up anxiously , `` you have a pitying expression on your face .
Which of u be it for -- speak out -- do n't keep u in suspense .
Has Mary Spearman tell you that Sara Beaumont be n't go to be at the picnic ? ''
`` Or that the Governor be n't go to be there ? ''
`` Or that Nan Harris be n't come ? ''
`` Or that something 's happen to put off the affair altogether ? ''
cry Ralph and Cecilia and Elliott all at once .
Mrs. Newbury laugh .
`` No , it 's none of those thing .
And I do n't know just whom I do pity , but it be one of you girl .
This be a letter from Grandmother Newbury .
Tomorrow be her birthday , and she want either Frances or Cecilia to go out to Ashland on the early morning train and spend the day at the Bay Shore Farm . ''
There be silence on the verandah of the Newburys for the space of ten second .
Then Frances burst out with : `` Mother , you know neither of u can go tomorrow .
If it be any other day !
But the day of the picnic ! ''
`` I 'm sorry , but one of you must go , '' say Mrs. Newbury firmly .
`` Your father say so when I call at the store to show him the letter .
Grandmother Newbury would be very much hurt and displeased if her invitation be disregard -- you know that .
But we leave it to yourselves to decide which one shall go . ''
`` Do n't do that , '' implore Frances miserably .
`` Pick one of u yourself -- pull straw -- anything to shorten the agony . ''
`` No ; you must settle it for yourselves , '' say Mrs. Newbury .
But in spite of herself she look at Cecilia .
Cecilia be apt to be look at , someway , when thing be to be give up .
Mostly it be Cecilia who give them up .
The family have come to expect it of her ; they all say that Cecilia be very unselfish .
Cecilia know that her mother look at her , but do not turn her face .
She could n't , just then ; she look away out over the hill and try to swallow something that come up in her throat .
`` Glad I 'm not a girl , '' say Ralph , when Mrs. Newbury have go into the house .
`` Whew !
Nothing could induce me to give up that picnic -- not if a dozen Grandmother Newburys be offend .
Where 's your sparkle go now , Fran ? ''
`` It 's too bad of Grandmother Newbury , '' declare Frances angrily .
`` Oh , Fran , she do n't know about the picnic , '' say Cecilia -- but still without turn round .
`` Well , she need n't always be so annoyed if we do n't go when we be invite .
Another day would do just as well , '' say Frances shortly .
Something in her voice sound choke too .
She rise and walk to the other end of the verandah , where she stand and scowl down the road ; Ralph and Elliott , feel uncomfortable , go away .
The verandah be very still for a little while .
The sun have quite set , and it be grow dark when Frances come back to the step .
`` Well , what be you go to do about it ? ''
she say shortly .
`` Which of u be to go to the Bay Shore ? ''
`` I suppose I have well go , '' say Cecilia slowly -- very slowly indeed .
Frances kick her slippered toe against the fern jardinire .
`` You may see Nan Harris somewhere else before she go back , '' she say consolingly .
`` Yes , I may , '' say Cecilia .
She know quite well that she would not .
Nan would return to Campden on the special train , and she be go back west in three day .
It be hard to give the picnic up , but Cecilia be use to give thing up .
Nobody ever expect Frances to give thing up ; she be so brilliant and popular that the good thing of life come her way naturally .
It never seem to matter so much about quiet Cecilia .
* * * * * Cecilia cry herself to sleep that night .
She felt that it be horribly selfish of her to do so , but she could n't help it .
She awake in the morning with a confused idea that it be very late .
Why have n't Mary call her , a she have be tell to do ?
Through the open door between her room and Frances 's she could see that the latter 's bed be empty .
Then she saw a little note , address to her , pin on the pillow .
Dear Saint Cecilia -LSB- it run -RSB- , when you read this I shall be on the train to Ashland to spend the day with Grandmother Newbury .
You 've be give up thing so often and so long that I suppose you think you have a monopoly of it ; but you see you have n't .
I do n't tell you this last night because I have n't quite make up my mind .
But after you go upstairs , I fight it out to a finish and come to a decision .
Sara Beaumont would keep , but Nan Harris would n't , so you must go to the picnic .
I tell Mary to call me instead of you this morning , and now I 'm off .
You need n't spoil your fun pity me .
Now that the wrench be over , I feel a most delightful glow of virtuous satisfaction !
Fran .
If by run after Frances Cecilia could have bring her back , Cecilia would have run .
But a glance at her watch tell her that Frances must already be halfway to Ashland .
So she could only accept the situation .
`` Well , anyway , '' she think , `` I 'll get Mary to point Sara Beaumont out to me , and I 'll store up a description of her in my mind to tell Fran tonight .
I must remember to take notice of the colour of her eye .
Fran have always be exercise about that . ''
It be mid-forenoon when Frances arrive at Ashland station .
Grandmother Newbury 's man , Hiram , be wait for her with the pony carriage , and Frances heartily enjoy the three-mile drive to the Bay Shore Farm .
Grandmother Newbury come to the door to meet her granddaughter .
She be a tall , handsome old lady with pierce black eye and thick white hair .
There be no savour of the traditional grandmother of cap and knit about her .
She be like a stately old princess and , much a her grandchild admire her , they be decidedly in awe of her .
`` So it be Frances , '' she say , bend her head graciously that Frances might kiss her still rosy cheek .
`` I expect it would be Cecilia .
I hear after I have write you that there be to be a gubernatorial picnic in Claymont today , so I be quite sure it would be Cecilia .
Why be n't it Cecilia ? ''
Frances flush a little .
There be a mean tone in Grandmother Newbury 's voice .
`` Cecilia be very anxious to go to the picnic today to see an old friend of hers , '' she answer .
`` She be willing to come here , but you know , Grandmother , that Cecilia be always willing to do the thing somebody else ought to do , so I decide I would stand on my right a ` Miss Newbury ' for once and come to the Bay Shore . ''
Grandmother Newbury smile .
She understand .
Frances have always be her favourite granddaughter , but she have never be blind , clear-sighted old lady that she be , to the little leaven of easy-going selfishness in the girl 's nature .
She be pleased to see that Frances have conquer it this time .
`` I 'm glad it be you who have come -- principally because you be clever than Cecilia , '' she say brusquely .
`` Or at least you be the good talker .
And I want a clever girl and a good talker to help me entertain a guest today .
She 's clever herself , and she like young girl .
She be a particular friend of your Uncle Robert 's family down south , and that be why I have ask her to spend a few day with me .
You 'll like her . ''
Here Grandmother Newbury lead Frances into the sitting-room .
`` Mrs. Kennedy , this be my granddaughter , Frances Newbury .
I tell you about her and her ambition last night .
You see , Frances , we have talk you over . ''
Mrs. Kennedy be a much young woman than Grandmother Newbury .
She be certainly no more than fifty and , in spite of her grey hair , look almost girlish , so bright be her dark eye , so clear-cut and fresh her delicate face , and so smart her general appearance .
Frances , although not give to sudden liking , take one for Mrs. Kennedy .
She think she have never see so charm a face .
She find herself enjoy the day immensely .
In fact , she forget the Governor 's picnic and Sara Beaumont altogether .
Mrs. Kennedy prove to be a delightful companion .
She have travel extensively and be an excellent raconteur .
She have see much of men and woman and crystallize her experience into sparkle little sentence and epigram which make Frances feel a if she be listen to one of the witty people in clever book .
But under all her sparkling wit there be a strongly felt undercurrent of true womanly sympathy and kind-heartedness which win affection as speedily a her brilliance win admiration .
Frances listen and laugh and enjoy .
Once she find time to think that she would have miss a great deal if she have not come to Bay Shore Farm that day .
Surely talk to a woman like Mrs. Kennedy be good than look at Sara Beaumont from a distance .
`` I 've be ` reward ' in the most approved storybook style , '' she think with amusement .
In the afternoon , Grandmother Newbury pack Mrs. Kennedy and Frances off for a walk .
`` The old woman want to have her regular nap , '' she tell them .
`` Frances , take Mrs. Kennedy to the fern walk and show her the famous ` Newbury Bubble ' among the rock .
I want to be rid of you both until tea-time . ''
Frances and Mrs. Kennedy go to the fern walk and the beautiful `` Bubble '' -- a clear , round spring of amber-hued water set down in a cup of rock overhung with fern and beech .
It be a spot Frances have always love .
She find herself talk freely to Mrs. Kennedy of her hope and plan .
The old woman draw the girl out with tactful sympathy until she find that Frances 's dear ambition be some day to be a writer of book like Sara Beaumont .
`` Not that I expect ever to write book like hers , '' she say hurriedly , `` and I know it must be a long while before I can write anything worth while at all .
But do you think -- if I try hard and work hard -- that I might do something in this line some day ? ''
`` I think so , '' say Mrs. Kennedy , smiling , `` if , a you say , you be willing to work hard and study hard .
There will be a great deal of both and many disappointment .
Sara Beaumont herself have a hard time at first -- and for a very long first too .
Her family be poor , you know , and Sara earn enough money to send away her first manuscript by make a pot of jelly for a neighbour .
The manuscript come back , and Sara make more jelly and write more story .
Still they come back .
Once she think she have well give up write story and stick to the jelly alone .
There do seem some little demand for the one and none at all for the other .
But she determine to keep on until she either succeed or prove to her own satisfaction that she could make good jelly than story .
And you see she do succeed .
But it mean perseverance and patience and much hard work .
Prepare yourself for that , Frances , and one day you will win your place .
Then you will look back to the ` Newbury Bubble , ' and you will tell me what a good prophetess I be . ''
They talk longer -- an earnest , helpful talk that go far to inspire Frances 's hazy ambition with a definite purpose .
She understand that she must not write merely to win fame for herself or even for the high motive of pure pleasure in her work .
She must aim , however humbly , to help her reader to high plane of thought and endeavour .
Then and only then would it be worth while .
`` Mrs. Kennedy be go to drive you to the station , '' say Grandmother Newbury after tea .
`` I be much oblige to you , Frances , for give up the picnic today and come to the Bay Shore to gratify an old woman 's inconvenient whim .
But I shall not burden you with too much gratitude , for I think you have enjoy yourself . ''
`` Indeed , I have , '' say Frances heartily .
Then she add with a laugh , `` I think I would feel much more meritorious if it have not be so pleasant .
It have rob me of all the self-sacrificing complacency I felt this morning .
You see , I want to go to that picnic to see Sara Beaumont , and I felt quite like a martyr at give it up . ''
Grandmother Newbury 's eye twinkle .
`` You would have be beautifully disappointed have you go .
Sara Beaumont be not there .
Mrs. Kennedy , I see you have n't tell our secret .
Frances , my dear , let me introduce you two over again .
This lady be Mrs. Sara Beaumont Kennedy , the writer of The Story of Idlewild and all those other book you so much admire . ''
* * * * * The Newburys be sit on the verandah at dusk , too tired and too happy to talk .
Ralph and Elliott have see the Governor ; more than that , they have be introduce to him , and he have shake hand with them both and tell them that their father and he have be chum when just their size .
And Cecilia have spend a whole day with Nan Harris , who have not change at all except to grow taller .
But there be one little cloud on her content .
`` I want to see Sara Beaumont to tell Frances about her , but I could n't get a glimpse of her .
I do n't even know if she be there . ''
`` There come Fran up the station road now , '' say Ralph .
`` My eye , have n't she a step ! ''
Frances come smile over the lawn and up the step .
`` So you be all home safe , '' she say gaily .
`` I hope you feast your eye on your beloved Governor , boys .
I can tell that Cecilia forgather with Nan by the beatific look on her face . ''
`` Oh , Fran , it be lovely ! ''
cry Cecilia .
`` But I felt so sorry -- why do n't you let me go to Ashland ?
It be too bad you miss it -- and Sara Beaumont . ''
`` Sara Beaumont be at the Bay Shore Farm , '' say Frances .
`` I 'll tell you all about it when I get my breath -- I 've be breathless ever since Grandmother Newbury tell me of it .
There 's only one drawback to my supreme bliss -- the remembrance of how complacently self-sacrificing I felt this morning .
It humiliate me wholesomely to remember it ! ''
Elizabeth 's Child The Ingelows , of Ingelow Grange , be not a marry family .
Only one of them , Elizabeth , have marry , and perhaps it be her `` poor match '' that discourage the others .
At any rate , Ellen and Charlotte and George Ingelow at the Grange be single , and so be Paul down at Greenwood Farm .
It be seventeen year since Elizabeth have marry James Sheldon in the face of the most decided opposition on the part of her family .
Sheldon be a handsome , shiftless ne'er - do-well , without any violent bad habit , but also `` without any backbone , '' a the Ingelows declare .
`` There be sometimes hope of a man who be actively bad , '' Charlotte Ingelow have say sententiously , `` but who ever heard of reform a jellyfish ? ''
Elizabeth and her husband have go west and settle on a prairie farm in Manitoba .
She have never be home since .
Perhaps her pride keep her away , for she have the Ingelow share of that , and she soon discover that her family 's estimate of James Sheldon have be the true one .
There be no active resentment on either side , and once in a long while letter be exchange .
Still , ever since her marriage , Elizabeth have be practically an outsider and an alien .
As the year come and go the Ingelows at home remember only at long interval that they have a sister on the western prairie .
One of these remembrance come to Charlotte Ingelow on a spring afternoon when the great orchard about the Grange be pink and white with apple and cherry blossom , and over every hill and field be a delicate , flower-starred green .
A soft breeze be blow loose petal from the August Sweeting through the open door of the wide hall when Charlotte come through it .
Ellen and George be stand on the step outside .
`` This kind of a day always make me think of Elizabeth , '' say Charlotte dreamily .
`` It be in apple-blossom time she go away . ''
The Ingelows always speak of Elizabeth 's go away , never of her marrying .
`` Seventeen year ago , '' say Ellen .
`` Why , Elizabeth 's old child must be quite a young woman now !
I -- I -- '' a sudden idea sweep over and leave her a little breathless .
`` I would really like to see her . ''
`` Then why do n't you write and ask her to come east and visit u ? ''
ask George , who do not often speak , but who always speak to some purpose when he do .
Ellen and Charlotte look at each other .
`` I would like to see Elizabeth 's child , '' repeat Ellen firmly .
`` Do you think she would come ? ''
ask Charlotte .
`` You know when James Sheldon die five year ago , we write to Elizabeth and ask her to come home and live with u , and she seem almost resentful in the letter she write back .
I 've never say so before , but I 've often think it . ''
`` Yes , she do , '' say Ellen , who have often think so too , but never say so .
`` Elizabeth be always very independent , '' remark George .
`` Perhaps she think your letter savour of charity or pity .
No Ingelow would endure that . ''
`` At any rate , you know she refuse to come , even for a visit .
She say she could not leave the farm .
She may refuse to let her child come . ''
`` It wo n't do any harm to ask her , '' say George .
In the end , Charlotte write to Elizabeth and ask her to let her daughter visit the old homestead .
The letter be write and mail in much perplexity and distrust when once the glow of momentary enthusiasm in the new idea have pass .
`` What if Elizabeth 's child be like her father ? ''
query Charlotte in a half-whisper .
`` Let u hope she wo n't be ! ''
cry Ellen fervently .
Indeed , she felt that a feminine edition of James Sheldon would be more than she could endure .
`` She may not like u , or our way , '' sigh Charlotte .
`` We do n't know how she have be bring up .
She will seem like a stranger after all .
I really long to see Elizabeth 's child , but I ca n't help fear we have do a rash thing , Ellen . ''
`` Perhaps she may not come , '' suggest Ellen , wonder whether she hop it or fear it .
But Worth Sheldon do come .
Elizabeth write back a prompt acceptance , with no trace of the proud bitterness that have permeate her answer to the former invitation .
The Ingelows at the Grange be throw into a flutter when the letter come .
In another week Elizabeth 's child would be with them .
`` If only she be n't like her father , '' say Charlotte with foreboding , a she air and sweep the southeast spare room for their expect guest .
They have three spare room at the Grange , but the aunt have select the southeast one for their niece because it be do in white , `` and white seem the most appropriate for a young girl , '' Ellen say , a she arrange a pitcher of wild rose on the table .
`` I think everything be ready , '' announce Charlotte .
`` I put the very fine sheet on the bed , they smell deliciously of lavender , and we have very good luck do up the muslin curtain .
It be pleasant to be expect a guest , be n't it , Ellen ?
I have often think , although I have never say so before , that our life be too self-centred .
We seem to have no interest outside of ourselves .
Even Elizabeth have be really nothing to u , you know .
She seem to have become a stranger .
I hope her child will be the mean of bring u nearer together again . ''
`` If she have James Sheldon 's round face and big blue eye and curly yellow hair I shall never really like her , no matter how Ingelowish she may be inside , '' say Ellen decidedly .
When Worth Sheldon come , each of her aunt draw a long breath of relief .
Worth be not in the least like her father in appearance .
Neither do she resemble her mother , who have be a sprightly , black-haired and black-eyed girl .
Worth be tall and straight , with a long braid of thick , wavy brown hair , large , level-gazing grey eye , a square jaw , and an excellent chin with a dimple in it .
`` She be the very image of Mother 's sister , Aunt Alice , who die so long ago , '' say Charlotte .
`` You do n't remember her , Ellen , but I do very well .
She be the sweet woman that ever draw breath .
She be Paul 's favourite aunt , too , '' Charlotte add with a sigh .
Paul 's antagonistic attitude be the only drawback to the joy of this meeting .
How delightful it would have be if he have not refuse to be there too , to welcome Elizabeth 's child .
Worth come to heart prepare to love her , but they must have love her in any case .
In a day Aunt Charlotte and Aunt Ellen and shy , quiet Uncle George have yield wholly to her charm .
She be girlishly bright and merry , frankly delight with the old homestead and the quaint , old-fashioned , daintily keep room .
Yet there be no suggestion of gush about her ; she do not go into rapture , but her pleasure shone out in eye and tone .
There be so much to tell and ask and remember the first day that it be not until the second morning after her arrival that Worth ask the question her aunt have be dread .
She ask it out in the orchard , in the emerald gloom of a long arcade of stout old tree that Grandfather Ingelow have plant fifty year ago .
`` Aunt Charlotte , when be Uncle Paul come up to see me ?
I long to see him ; Mother have talk so much to me about him .
She be his favourite sister , be n't she ? ''
Charlotte and Ellen look at each other .
Ellen nod slyly .
It would be good to tell Worth the whole truth at once .
She would certainly find it out soon .
`` I do not think , my dear , '' say Aunt Charlotte quietly , `` that your Uncle Paul will be up to see you at all . ''
`` Why not ? ''
ask Worth , her serious grey eye look straight into Aunt Charlotte 's troubled dark one .
Aunt Charlotte understand that Elizabeth have never tell Worth anything about her family 's resentment of her marriage .
It be not a pleasant thing to have to explain it all to Elizabeth 's child , but it must be do .
`` I think , my dear , '' she say gently , `` that I will have to tell you a little bit of our family history that may not be very pleasant to hear or tell .
Perhaps you do n't know that when your mother marry we -- we -- do not exactly approve of her marriage .
Perhaps we be mistake ; at any rate it be wrong and foolish to let it come between u and her a we have do .
But that be how it be .
None of u approve , a I have say , but none of u be so bitter a your Uncle Paul .
Your mother be his favourite sister , and he be very deeply attach to her .
She be only a year young than he .
When he buy the Greenwood farm she go and keep house for him for three year before her marriage .
When she marry , Paul be terribly angry .
He be always a strange man , very determined and unyielding .
He say he would never forgive her , and he never have .
He have never marry , and he have live so long alone at Greenwood with only deaf old Mrs. Bree to keep house for him that he have grow odder than ever .
One of u want to go and keep house for him , but he would not let u .
And -- I must tell you this although I hate to -- he be very angry when he hear we have invite you to visit u , and he say he would not come near the Grange as long a you be here .
Oh , you ca n't realize how bitter and obstinate he be .
We plead with him , but I think that only make him bad .
We have felt so bad over it , your Aunt Ellen and your Uncle George and I , but we can do nothing at all . ''
Worth have listen gravely .
The story be all new to her , but she have long think there must be a something at the root of her mother 's indifferent relation with her old home and friend .
When Aunt Charlotte , flush and half-tearful , finish speaking , a little glimmer of fun come into Worth 's grey eye , and her dimple be very pronounced a she say , `` Then , if Uncle Paul will not come to see me , I must go to see him . ''
`` My dear ! ''
cried both her aunt together in dismay .
Aunt Ellen get her breath first .
`` Oh , my dear child , you must not think of such a thing , '' she cry nervously .
`` It would never do .
He would -- I do n't know what he would do -- order you off the premise , or say something dreadful .
No !
No !
Wait .
Perhaps he will come after all -- we will see .
You must have patience . ''
Worth shake her head and the smile in her eye deepen .
`` I do n't think he will come , '' she say .
`` Mother have tell me something about the Ingelow stubbornness .
She say I have it in full measure , but I like to call it determination , it sound so much good .
No , the mountain will not come to Mohammed , so Mohammed will go to the mountain .
I think I will walk down to Greenwood this afternoon .
There , dear aunty , do n't look so troubled .
Uncle Paul wo n't run at me with a pitchfork , will he ?
He ca n't do bad than order me off his premise , a you say . ''
Aunt Charlotte shake her head .
She understand that no argument would turn the girl from her purpose if she have the Ingelow will , so she say nothing more .
In the afternoon Worth set out for Greenwood , a mile away .
`` Oh , what will Paul say ? ''
exclaim the aunt , with dismal foreboding .
Worth meet her Uncle Paul at the garden gate .
He be stand there when she come up the slope of the long lane , a tall , massive figure of a man , with deep-set black eye , a long , prematurely white beard , and a hooked nose .
Handsome and stubborn enough Paul Ingelow look .
It be not without reason that his neighbour call him the odd Ingelow of them all .
Behind him be a fine old farmhouse in beautiful ground .
Worth felt almost a much interested in Greenwood a in the Grange .
It have be her mother 's home for three year , and Elizabeth Ingelow have love it and talk much to her daughter of it .
Paul Ingelow do not move or speak , although he probably guess who his visitor be .
Worth hold out her hand .
`` How do you do , Uncle Paul ? ''
she say .
Paul ignore the outstretched hand .
`` Who be you ? ''
he ask gruffly .
`` I be Worth Sheldon , your sister Elizabeth 's daughter , '' she answer .
`` Wo n't you shake hand with me , Uncle Paul ? ''
`` I have no sister Elizabeth , '' he answer unbendingly .
Worth fold her hand on the gatepost and meet his frowning gaze unshrinkingly .
`` Oh , yes , you have , '' she say calmly .
`` You ca n't do away with natural tie by simply ignore them , Uncle Paul .
They go on exist .
I never know until this morning that you be at enmity with my mother .
She never tell me .
But she have talk a great deal of you to me .
She have tell me often how much you and she love each other and how good you always be to her .
She send her love to you . ''
`` Years ago I have a sister Elizabeth , '' say Paul Ingelow harshly .
`` I love her very tenderly , but she marry against my will a shiftless scamp who -- '' Worth lift her hand slightly .
`` He be my father , Uncle Paul , and he be always kind to me ; whatever his fault may have be I can not listen to a word against him . ''
`` You should n't have come here , then , '' he say , but he say it less harshly .
There be even a certain reluctant approval of this compose , independent niece in his eye .
`` Did n't they tell you at the Grange that I do n't want to see you ? ''
`` Yes , they tell me this morning , but I want to see you , so I come .
Why can not we be friend , Uncle Paul , not because we be uncle and niece , but simply because you be you and I be I ?
Let u leave my father and mother out of the question and start fair on our own account . ''
For a moment Uncle Paul look at her .
She meet his gaze frankly and firmly , with a merry smile lurk in her eye .
Then he throw back his head and laugh a hearty laugh that be good to hear .
`` Very well , '' he say .
`` It be a bargain . ''
He put his hand over the gate and shook hers .
Then he open the gate and invite her into the house .
Worth stay to tea , and Uncle Paul show her all over Greenwood .
`` You be to come here as often a you like , '' he tell her .
`` When a young lady and I make a compact of friendship I be go to live up to it .
But you be not to talk to me about your mother .
Remember , we be friend because I be I and you be you , and there be no question of anybody else . ''
The Grange Ingelows be amaze to see Paul bring Worth home in his buggy that even .
When Worth have go into the house Charlotte tell him that she be glad to see that he have relent towards Elizabeth 's child .
`` I have not , '' he make stern answer .
`` I do n't know whom you mean by Elizabeth 's child .
That young woman and I have take a liking for each other which we mean to cultivate on our own account .
Do n't call her Elizabeth 's child to me again . ''
As the day and week go by Worth grow dearer and dearer to the Grange folk .
The aunt often wonder to themselves how they have exist before Worth come and , oftener yet , how they could do without her when the time come for her to go home .
Meanwhile , the odd friendship between her and Uncle Paul deepen and grow .
They read and drive and walk together .
Worth spend half her time at Greenwood .
Once Uncle Paul say to her , a if speak half to himself , `` To think that James Sheldon could have a daughter like you ! ''
Up go Worth 's head .
Worth 's grey eye flash .
`` I think we be not to speak of my parent ? ''
she say .
`` You ought not to have be the first to break the compact , Uncle Paul . ''
`` I accept the rebuke and beg your pardon , '' he say .
He like her all the good for those little flash of spirit across her girlish composure .
One day in September they be together in the garden at Greenwood .
Worth , look lovingly and regretfully down the sun-flecked avenue of box , say with a sigh , `` Next month I must go home .
How sorry I shall be to leave the Grange and Greenwood .
I have have such a delightful summer , and I have learn to love all the old nook and corner as well a if I have live here all my life . ''
`` Stay here ! ''
say Uncle Paul abruptly .
`` Stay here with me .
I want you , Worth .
Let Greenwood be your home henceforth and adopt your crusty old bachelor uncle for a father . ''
`` Oh , Uncle Paul , '' cry Worth , `` I do n't know -- I do n't think -- oh , you surprise me ! ''
`` I surprise myself , perhaps .
But I mean it , Worth .
I be a rich , lonely old man and I want to keep this new interest you have bring into my life .
Stay with me .
I will try to give you a very happy life , my child , and all I have shall be yours . ''
Seeing her troubled face , he add , `` There , I do n't ask you to decide right here .
I suppose you have other claim to adjust .
Take time to think it over . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Worth .
She go back to the Grange a one in a dream and shut herself up in the white southeast room to think .
She know that she want to accept this unexpected offer of Uncle Paul 's .
Worth 's loyal tongue have never betray , even to the loving aunt , any discontent in the prairie farm life that have always be hers .
But it have be a hard life for the girl , narrow and poverty-bounded .
She long to put forth her hand and take this other life which open so temptingly before her .
She know , too , that her mother , ambitious for her child , would not be likely to interpose any objection .
She have only to go to Uncle Paul and all that she long for would be give her , together with the faithful , protect fatherly love and care that in all it strength and sweetness have never be hers .
She must decide for herself .
Not even of Aunt Charlotte or Aunt Ellen could she ask advice .
She know they would entreat her to accept , and she need no such incentive to her own wish .
Far on into the night Worth sit at the white-curtained dormer window , look at the star over the apple tree , and fight her battle between inclination and duty .
It be a hard and stubbornly contest battle , but with that square chin and those unfaltering grey eye it could end in only one way .
Next day Worth go down to Greenwood .
`` Well , what be it to be ? ''
say Uncle Paul without preface , a he meet her in the garden .
`` I can not come , Uncle Paul , '' say Worth steadily .
`` I can not give up my mother . ''
`` I do n't ask you to give her up , '' he say gruffly .
`` You can write to her and visit her .
I do n't want to come between parent and child . ''
`` That be n't the point exactly , Uncle Paul .
I hope you will not be angry with me for not accept your offer .
I want to -- you do n't know how much I want to -- but I can not .
Mother and I be so much to each other , Uncle Paul , more , I be sure , than even most mother and daughter .
You have never let me speak of her , but I must tell you this .
Mother have often tell me that when I come to her thing be go very hard with her and that I be heaven 's own gift to comfort and encourage her .
Then , in the ten year that follow , the three other baby that come to her all die before they be two year old .
And with each loss Mother say I grow dearer to her .
Do n't you see , Uncle Paul , I 'm not merely just one child to her but I 'm all those child ?
Six year ago the twin be bear , and they be dear , bright little lad , but they be very small yet , so Mother have really nobody but me .
I know she would consent to let me stay here , because she would think it best for me , but it would n't be really best for me ; it could n't be best for a girl to do what be n't right .
I love you , Uncle Paul , and I love Greenwood , and I want to stay so much , but I can not .
I have think it all over and I must go back to Mother . ''
Uncle Paul do not say one word .
He turn his back on Worth and walk the full length of the box alley twice .
Worth watch him wistfully .
Was he very angry ?
Would he forgive her ?
`` You be an Ingelow , Worth , '' he say when he come back .
That be all , but Worth understand that her decision be not to cause any estrangement between them .
A month later Worth 's last day at the Grange come .
She be to leave for the West the next morning .
They be all out in Grandfather Ingelow 's arcade , Uncle George and Aunt Charlotte and Aunt Ellen and Worth , enjoy the ripe mellow sunshine of the October day , when Paul Ingelow come up the slope .
Worth go to meet him with outstretched hand .
He take them both in his and look at her very gravely .
`` I have not come to say goodbye , Worth .
I will not say it .
You be come back to me . ''
Worth shake her brown head sadly .
`` Oh , I can not , Uncle Paul .
You know -- I tell you -- '' `` Yes , I know , '' he interrupt .
`` I have be think it all over every day since .
You know yourself what the Ingelow determination be .
It 's a good thing in a good cause but a bad thing in a bad one .
And it be no easy thing to conquer when you 've let it rule you for year a I have do .
But I have conquer it , or you have conquer it for me .
Child , here be a letter .
It be to your mother -- my sister Elizabeth .
In it I have ask her to forgive me , and to forget our long estrangement .
I have ask her to come back to me with you and her boy .
I want you all -- all -- at Greenwood and I will do the best I can for you all . ''
`` Oh , Uncle Paul , '' cry Worth , her face aglow and quiver with smile and tear and sunshine .
`` Do you think she will forgive me and come ? ''
`` I know she will , '' cry Worth .
`` I know how she have long for you and home .
