`` Wo n't you go on , please ?
I be very fond of music . ''
Miss LeMar turn again to the organ .
The gleam curve of her neck and shoulder rise out of their filmy sheathing of lace .
Spencer , sit where he could see her face with it rose-leaf bloom and the ringlet of golden hair cluster about it , gaze at her , unheeding of aught else .
Estella saw his look .
She suddenly begin to hate the black-eyed witch at the organ -- and to fear her as well .
Why do Spencer look at her like that ?
She wish she have not bring him in at all .
She felt commonplace and angry , and want to cry .
Vivienne LeMar go on singing , drift from one sweet love song into another .
Once she look up at Spencer Morgan .
He rise quickly and go to her side , look down at her with a strange fire in his eye .
Estella get up abruptly and leave the room .
She be angry and jealous , but she think Spencer would follow her .
When he do not , she could not believe it .
She wait on the porch for him , not know whether she be more angry or miserable .
She would not go back into the room .
Vivienne LeMar have stop sing .
She could hear a low murmur of voice .
When she have wait there an hour , she go in and upstairs to her room with ostentatious footstep .
She be too angry to cry or to realize what have happen , and still keep hop all sort of impossible thing a she sit by her window .
It be ten o'clock when Spencer go away and Vivienne LeMar pass up the hall to her room .
Estella clench her hand in an access of helpless rage .
She be very angry , but under her fury be a horrible ache of pain .
It could not be only three hour since she have be so happy !
It must be more than that !
What have happen ?
Had she make a fool of herself ?
Ought she to have behave in any other way ?
Perhaps Spencer have come out to look for her after she have go upstairs and , not find her , have go back to Miss LeMar to show her he be angry .
This poor hope be a small comfort .
She wish she have not act a she have .
It look spiteful and jealous , and Spencer do not like people who be spiteful and jealous .
She would show him she be sorry when he come back , and it would be all right .
She lay awake most of the night , think out plausible reason and excuse for Spencer 's behaviour , and try to convince herself that she have exaggerate everything absurdly .
Towards morning she fell asleep and awake hardly remember what have happen .
Then it roll back upon her crushingly .
But she rise and dress in good spirit .
It have be hard to lie there and do nothing .
Now the day be before her and something pleasant might happen .
Spencer might come back in the evening .
She would be doubly nice to him to make up .
Mrs. Bowes look sharply at her niece 's dull eye and pale cheek at the breakfast table .
She have her own thought of thing .
She be a large , handsome woman with a rather harsh face .
`` Did you go upstairs last night and leave Spencer Morgan with Miss LeMar ? ''
she ask bluntly .
`` Yes , '' mutter Estella .
`` Did you have a quarrel with him ? ''
`` No . ''
`` What make you act so queer ? ''
`` I could n't help it , '' falter the girl .
The food she be eat seem to choke her .
She wish she be a hundred mile away from everyone she ever know .
Mrs. Bowes give a grunt of dissatisfaction .
`` Well , I think it be a pretty queer piece of business .
But if you be satisfied , it be n't anyone else 's concern , I suppose .
He stay with her till ten o'clock and when he leave she do everything but kiss him -- and she ask him to come back too .
I hear . ''
`` Aunt ! ''
protest the girl .
She felt a if her aunt be strike her blow after blow on a sensitive , quiver spot .
It be bad enough to know it all , but to hear it put into such cold , brutal word be more than she could endure .
It seem to make everything so horribly sure .
`` I guess I have a right to listen , have n't I , with such going on in my own house ?
You 're a little fool , Estella Bowes !
I do n't believe that LeMar girl be a bit well than she ought to be .
I wish I 'd never take her to board , and if you say so , I 'll send her pack right off and not give her a chance to make mischief atween folk . ''
Estella 's suffering find vent in a burst of anger .
`` You need n't do anything of the sort ! ''
she cry .
`` It 's all nonsense about Spencer -- it be my fault -- and anyhow , if he be so easily lead away a that , I be sure I do n't want him !
I wish to goodness , Aunt , you 'd leave me alone ! ''
`` Oh , very well ! ''
return Mrs. Bowes in an offended tone .
`` It be for your own good I speak .
You know best , I suppose .
If you do n't care , I do n't know that anyone else need . ''
Estella go about her work like one in a dream .
A great hatred have spring up in her heart against Vivienne LeMar .
The simple-hearted country girl felt almost murderous .
The whole day seem like a nightmare to her .
When night come she dress herself with feverish care , for she could not quell the hope that Spencer would surely come again .
But he do not ; and when she go up to bed , it do not seem a if she could live through the night .
She lay star wide-eyed through the darkness until dawn .
She wish that she might cry , but no tear come to her relief .
Next day she go to work with furious energy .
When her usual task be do , she ransack the house for other employment .
She be afraid if she stop work for a moment she would go mad .
Mrs. Bowes watch her with a grim pity .
At night she walk to prayer meeting in the schoolhouse a mile away .
She always go , and Spencer be generally on hand to see her home .
He be not there tonight .
She wish she have not come .
It be dreadful to have to sit still and think .
She do not hear a word the minister say .
She have to walk home with a crowd of girl and nerve herself to answer their merry sally that no one might suspect .
She be torture by the fear that everyone know her shame and humiliation and be pity her .
She get hysterically gay , but underneath all she be constantly try to assign a satisfactory reason for Spencer 's nonappearance .
He be often keep away , and of course he be a little cross at her yet , a be natural .
If he have come before her then , she could have go down in the very dust at his foot and implore his forgiveness .
When she reach home she go into the garden and sit down .
The calm of the night soothe her .
She felt happy and more hopeful .
She think over all that have pass between her and Spencer and all his loving assurance , and the recollection comfort her .
She be almost happy when she go in .
Tomorrow be Sunday , she think when she waken in the morning .
Her step be light and her face brighter .
Mrs. Bowes seem to be in a bad humour .
Presently she say bluntly : `` Do you know that Spencer Morgan be here last night ? ''
Estella felt the cold tighten round her heart .
Yet underneath it spring up a wild , sweet hope .
`` Spencer here !
I suppose he forget it be prayer meeting night .
What do he say ?
Why do n't you tell him where I be ? ''
`` I do n't know that he forget it be prayer meeting night , '' return Mrs. Bowes with measure emphasis . ''
'T be n't likely his memory have fail so all at once .
He do n't ask where you be .
He take good care to go before you get home too .
Miss LeMar entertain him .
I guess she be quite capable of it . ''
Estella bent over her dish in silence .
Her face be deadly white .
`` I 'll send her away , '' say Mrs. Bowes pityingly .
`` When she 's go , Spencer will soon come back to you . ''
`` No , you wo n't ! ''
say Estella fiercely .
`` If you do , she 'll only go over to Barstows ' , and it would be bad than ever .
I do n't care -- I 'll show them both I do n't care !
As for Spencer come back to me , do you think I want her leaving ?
He 's welcome to go . ''
`` He 's only just fool by her pretty face , '' persist Mrs. Bowes in a clumsy effort at consolation .
`` She 's just turn his head , the hussy , and he be n't really in his proper sens .
You 'll see , he 'll be ashamed of himself when he come to them again .
He know very well in his heart that you 're worth ten girl like her . ''
Estella face around .
`` Aunt , '' she say desperately , `` you mean well , I know , but you 're kill me !
I ca n't stand it .
For pity 's sake , do n't say another word to me about this , no matter what happen .
And do n't keep look at me a if I be a martyr !
She watch u and it would please her to think I care .
I do n't -- and I mean she shall see I do n't .
I guess I 'm well rid of a fellow as fickle a he be , and I 've sense enough to know it . ''
She go upstairs then , tear off her turquoise engagement ring a she climb the step .
All sort of wild idea flash through her head .
She would go down and confront Vivienne LeMar -- she would rush off and find Spencer and throw his ring at him , no matter where he be -- she would go away where no one would ever see her again .
Why could n't she die ?
Was it possible people could suffer like this and yet go on living ?
`` I do n't care -- I do n't care ! ''
she moan , tell the lie aloud to herself , a if she hop that by this mean she would come to believe it .
When twilight come she go out to the front step and lean her ache head against the honeysuckle trellis .
The sun have just set and the whole world swam in dusky golden light .
The wonderful beauty frighten her .
She felt like a blot on it .
While she stand there , a buggy come drive up the lane and wheel about at the step .
In it be Spencer Morgan .
Estella saw him and , in spite of the madden throb of hope that seem suddenly to transfigure the world for her , her pride rise in arm .
Had Spencer come the night before , he would have find her loving and humble .
Even now , have she but be sure that he have come to see her , she would have unbent .
But be it the other ?
The torture doubt sting her to the quick .
She wait , stubbornly resolve that she would not speak first .
It be not in her place .
Spencer Morgan flick his horse sharply with his whip .
He dare not look at Estella , but he felt her uncompromising attitude .
He be miserably ashamed of himself , and he felt angry at Estella for his shame .
`` Do you care to come for a drive ? ''
he ask awkwardly , with a covert glance at the parlour window .
Estella catch the glance and her jealous perception instantly divine it true significance .
Her heart die within her .
She do not care what she say .
`` Oh , '' she cry with a toss of her head , `` it 's not me you want -- it 's Miss LeMar , be n't it ?
She 's away at the shore .
You 'll find her there , I dare say . ''
Still , in spite of all , she perversely hop .
If he would only make any sign , the least in the world , that he be sorry -- that he still love her -- she could forgive him everything .
When he drive away without another word , she could not believe it again .
Surely he would not go -- surely he know she do not mean it -- he would turn back before he get to the gate .
But he do not .
She saw him disappear around the turn of the road .
She could not see if he take the shore lane far on , but she be sure he would .
She be furious at herself for act a she have do .
It be all her fault again !
Oh , if he would only give her another chance !
She be in her room when she hear the buggy drive up again .
She know it be Spencer and that he have bring Vivienne LeMar home .
Acting on a sudden wild impulse , the girl step out on the landing and confront her rival a she come up the stair .
The latter pause at sight of the white face and anguished eye .
There be a little mocking smile on her lovely face .
`` Miss LeMar , '' say Estella in a quivering voice , `` what do you mean by all this ?
You know I 'm engage to Spencer Morgan ! ''
Miss LeMar laugh softly .
`` Really ?
If you be engage to the young man , my dear Miss Bowes , I would advise you to look after him more sharply .
He seem very willing to flirt , I should say . ''
She pass on to her room with a malicious smile .
Estella shrink back against the wall , humiliate and baffle .
When she find herself alone , she crawl back to her room and throw herself face downward on the bed , pray that she might die .
But she have to live through the horrible month that follow -- a month so full of agony that she seem to draw every breath in pain .
Spencer never seek her again ; he go everywhere with Miss LeMar .
His infatuation be the talk of the settlement .
Estella know that her story be in everyone 's mouth , and her pride smart ; but she carry a brave front outwardly .
No one should say she care .
She believe that the actress be merely delude Spencer for her own amusement and would never dream of marry him .
But one day the idea occur to her that she might .
Estella have always tell herself that even if Spencer want to come back to her she would never take him back , but now , by the half-sick horror that come over her , she know how strong the hope have really be and despise herself more than ever .
One evening she be alone in the parlour .
She have light the lamp and be listlessly arrange the little room .
She look old and worn .
Her colour be go and her eye be dull .
As she work , the door open and Vivienne LeMar walk or , rather , reel into the room .
Estella drop the book she hold and gaze at her a one in a dream .
The actress 's face be flush and her hair be wildly disorder .
Her eye glitter with an unearthly light .
She be talk incoherently .
The air be heavy with the fume of brandy .
Estella laugh hysterically .
Vivienne LeMar be grossly intoxicate .
This woman whom Spencer Morgan worship , for whom he have forsake her , be reel about the room , laugh idiotically , talk wildly in a thick voice .
If he could but see her now !
Estella turn white with the passion of the wild idea that have come to her .
Spencer Morgan should see this woman in her true colour .
She lose no time .
Swiftly she leave the room and lock the door behind her on the maudlin , babble creature inside .
Then she fling a shawl over her head and ran from the house .
It be not far to the Morgan homestead .
She run all the way , hardly know what she be do .
Mrs. Morgan answer her knock .
She gaze in bewilderment at Estella 's wild face .
`` I want Spencer , '' say the girl through her white lip .
The elder woman step back in dumb amazement .
She know and rue her son 's folly .
What could Estella want with him ?
The young man appear in the doorway .
Estella catch him by the arm and pull him outside .
`` Miss LeMar want you at once , '' she say hoarsely .
`` At once -- you be to come at once ! ''
`` Has anything happen to her ? ''
cried Spencer savagely .
`` Is she ill -- be she -- what be the matter ? ''
`` No , she be not ill .
But she want you .
Come at once . ''
He start off bareheaded .
Estella follow him up the road breathlessly .
Surely it be the strange walk ever a girl have , she tell herself with mirthless laughter .
She push the key into his hand at the porch .
`` She 's in the parlour , '' she say wildly .
`` Go in and look at her , Spencer . ''
Spencer snatch the key and fit it into the door .
He be full of fear .
Had Estella go out of her mind ?
Had she do anything to Vivienne ?
Had she -- As he enter , the actress reel to her foot and come to meet him .
He stand and gaze at her stupidly .
This could not be Vivienne , this creature reek with brandy , utter such foolish word !
What fiend be this in her likeness ?
He grow sick at heart and brain ; she have her arm about him .
He try to push her away , but she cling close , and her senseless laughter echo through the room .
He fling her from him with an effort and rush out through the hall and down the road like a madman .
Estella , watch him , felt that she be avenge .
She be glad with a joy more pitiful than grief .
Vivienne LeMar leave the cottage the next day .
Mrs. Bowes , suspect some mystery , question Estella sharply , but could find out nothing .
The girl keep her own counsel stubbornly .
The interest and curiosity of the village centre around Spencer Morgan , and his case be well discuss .
Gossip say that the actress have jilt him and that he be break his heart about it .
Then come the rumour that he be go West .
Estella hear it apathetically .
Life seem ended for her .
There be nothing to look forward to .
She could not even look back .
All the past be embitter .
She have never meet Spencer since the night she go after him .
She sometimes wonder what he must think of her for what she have do .
Did he think her unwomanly and revengeful ?
She do not care .
It be rather a relief to hear that he be go away .
She would not be torture by the fear of meet him then .
She be sure he would never come back to her .
If he do , she would never forgive him .
One evening in early harvest Estella be linger by the lane gate at twilight .
She have work slavishly all day and be very tired , but she be loath to go into the house , where her trouble always seem to weigh on her more heavily .
The dusk , sweet night seem to soothe her a it always do .
She lean her head against the poplar by the gate .
How long Spencer Morgan have be stand by her she do not know , but when she look up he be there .
In the dim light she could see how haggard and hollow-eyed he have grow .
He have change almost as much a herself .
The girl 's first proud impulse be to turn coldly away and leave him .
But some strange tumult in her heart keep her still .
What have he come to say ?
There be a moment 's fateful silence .
Then Spencer speak in a muffled voice .
`` I could n't go away without see you once more , Estella , to say good-bye .
Perhaps you wo n't speak to me .
You must hate me .
I deserve it . ''
He pause , but she say no word .
She could not .
After a space , he go wistfully on .
`` I know you can never forgive me -- no girl could .
I 've behave like a fool .
There be n't any excuse to be make for me .
I do n't think I could have be in my right sens , Estella .
It all seem like some bad dream now .
When I saw her that night , I come to my right mind , and I 've be the most miserable man alive ever since .
Not for her -- but because I 'd lose you .
I ca n't bear to live here any longer , so I be go away .
Will you say good-bye , Estella ? ''
Still she do not speak .
There be a hundred thing she want to say but she could not say them .
Did he mean that he love her still ?
If she be sure of that , she could forgive him anything , but her doubt render her mute .
The young man turn away despairingly from her rigid attitude .
So be it -- he have bring his fate on himself .
He have go but a few step when Estella suddenly find her voice with a gasp .
`` Spencer ! ''
He come swiftly back .
`` Oh , Spencer -- do -- you -- do you love me still ? ''
He catch her hand in his .
`` Love you -- oh , Estella , yes , yes !
I always have .
That other be n't love -- it be just madness .
When it pass I hat life because I 'd lose you .
I know you ca n't forgive me , but , oh -- '' He break down .
Estella fling her arm around his neck and put her face up to his .
She felt a if her heart must break with it great happiness .
He understand her mute pardon .
In their kiss the past be put aside .
Estella 's martyrdom be end .
The Old Chest at Wyther Grange When I be a child I always think a visit to Wyther Grange be a great treat .
It be a big , quiet , old-fashioned house where Grandmother Laurance and Mrs. DeLisle , my Aunt Winnifred , live .
I be a favourite with them , yet I could never overcome a certain awe of them both .
Grandmother be a tall , dignified old lady with keen black eye that seem veritably to bore through one .
She always wear stiffly-rustling gown of rich silk make in the fashion of her youth .
I suppose she must have change her dress occasionally , but the impression on my mind be always the same , a she go trail about the house with a big bunch of key at her belt -- key that open a score of wonderful old chest and box and drawer .
It be one of my dear delight to attend Grandmother in her peregrination and watch the unfolding and examining of all those old treasure and heirloom of bygone Laurances .
Of Aunt Winnifred I be less in awe , possibly because she dress in a modern way and so look to my small eye more human and natural .
As Winnifred Laurance she have be the beauty of the family and be a handsome woman still , with brilliant dark eye and cameo-like feature .
She always look very sad , speak in a low sweet voice , and be my childish ideal of all that be high-bred and graceful .
I have many beloved haunt at the Grange , but I like the garret best .
It be a roomy old place , big enough to have comfortably house a family in itself , and be fill with cast-off furniture and old trunk and box of discarded finery .
I be never tire of play there , dress up in the old-fashioned gown and hat and practise old-time dance step before the high , crack mirror that hung at one end .
That old garret be a veritable fairyland to me .
There be one old chest which I could not explore and , like all forbidden thing , it possess a great attraction for me .
It stand away back in a dusty , cobwebbed corner , a strong , high wooden box , paint blue .
From some word which I have hear Grandmother let fall I be sure it have a history ; it be the one thing she never explore in her periodical overhaulings .
When I grow tire of play I like to creep up on it and sit there , picture out my own fancy concern it -- of which my favourite one be that some day I should solve the riddle and open the chest to find it full of gold and jewel with which I might restore the fortune of the Laurances and all the traditionary splendour of the old Grange .
I be sit there one day when Aunt Winnifred and Grandmother Laurance come up the narrow dark staircase , the latter jingling her key and peer into the dusty corner a she come along the room .
When they come to the old chest , Grandmother rap the top smartly with her key .
`` I wonder what be in this old chest , '' she say .
`` I believe it really should be open .
The moth may have get into it through that crack in the lid . ''
`` Why do n't you open it , Mother ? ''
say Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I be sure that key of Robert 's would fit the lock . ''
`` No , '' say Grandmother in the tone that nobody , not even Aunt Winnifred , ever dream of disputing .
`` I will not open that chest without Eliza 's permission .
She confide it to my care when she go away , and I promise that it should never be open until she come for it . ''
`` Poor Eliza , '' say Mrs. DeLisle thoughtfully .
`` I wonder what she be like now .
Very much change , like all the rest of u , I suppose .
It be almost thirty year since she be here .
How pretty she be ! ''
`` I never approve of her , '' say Grandmother brusquely .
`` She be a sentimental , fanciful creature .
She might have marry well but she prefer to waste her life pining over the memory of a man who be not worthy to untie the shoelace of a Laurance . ''
Mrs. DeLisle sigh softly and make no reply .
People say that she have have her own romance in her youth and that her mother have sternly repress it .
I have heard that her marriage with Mr. DeLisle be loveless on her part and proved very unhappy .
But he have be dead many year , and Aunt Winnifred never speak of him .
`` I have make up my mind what to do , '' say Grandmother decidedly .
`` I will write to Eliza and ask her if I may open the chest to see if the moth have get into it .
If she refuse , well and good .
I have no doubt that she will refuse .
She will cling to her old sentimental idea as long a the breath be in her body . ''
I rather avoid the old chest after this .
It take on a new significance in my eye and seem to me like the tomb of something -- possibly some dead and buried romance of the past .
Later on a letter come to Grandmother ; she pass it over the table to Mrs. DeLisle .
`` That be from Eliza , '' she say .
`` I would know her writing anywhere -- none of your modern sprawly , untidy hand , but a fine lady-like script , as regular a copperplate .
Read the letter , Winnifred ; I have n't my glass and I dare say Eliza 's rhapsody would tire me very much .
You need not read them aloud -- I can imagine them all .
Let me know what she say about the chest . ''
Aunt Winnifred open and read the letter and lay it down with a brief sigh .
`` This be all she say about the chest .
` If it be not for one thing that be in it , I would ask you to open the chest and burn all it content .
But I can not bear that anyone but myself should see or touch that one thing .
So please leave the chest a it be , dear Aunt .
It be no matter if the moth do get in . '
That be all , '' continue Mrs. DeLisle , `` and I must confess that I be disappointed .
I have always have an almost childish curiosity about that old chest , but I seem fat not to have it gratify .
That ` one thing ' must be her wedding dress .
I have always think that she lock it away there . ''
`` Her answer be just what I expect of her , '' say Grandmother impatiently .
`` Evidently the year have not make her more sensible .
Well , I wash my hand of her belonging , moth or no moth . ''
It be not until ten year afterwards that I hear anything more of the old chest .
Grandmother Laurance have die , but Aunt Winnifred still live at the Grange .
She be very lonely , and the winter after Grandmother 's death she send me an invitation to make her a long visit .
When I revisit the garret and saw the old blue chest in the same dusty corner , my childish curiosity revive and I beg Aunt Winnifred to tell me it history .
`` I be glad you have remind me of it , '' say Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I have intend to open the chest ever since Mother 's death but I keep put it off .
You know , Amy , poor Eliza Laurance die five year ago , but even then Mother would not have the chest open .
There be no reason why it should not be examine now .
If you like , we will go and open it at once and afterwards I will tell you the story . ''
We go eagerly up the garret stair .
Aunt kneel down before the old chest and select a key from the bunch at her belt .
`` Would it not be too provoking , Amy , if this key should not fit after all ?
Well , I do not believe you would be any more disappointed than I. '' She turn the key and lift the heavy lid .
I bend forward eagerly .
A layer of tissue paper reveal itself , with a fine tracing of sifted dust in it crinkle .
`` Lift it up , child , '' say my aunt gently .
`` There be no ghost for you , at least , in this old chest . ''
I lift the paper up and saw that the chest be divide into two compartment .
Lying on the top of one be a small , square , inlaid box .
This Mrs. DeLisle take up and carry to the window .
Lifting up the cover she lay it in my lap .
`` There , Amy , look through it and let u see what old treasure have lie hidden there these forty year . ''
The first thing I take out be a small square case cover with dark purple velvet .
The tiny clasp be almost rust away and yield easily .
I give a little cry of admiration .
Aunt Winnifred bent over my shoulder .
`` That be Eliza 's portrait at the age of twenty , and that be Willis Starr 's .
Was she not lovely , Amy ? ''
Lovely indeed be the face look out at me from it border of tarnished gilt .
It be the face of a young girl , in shape a perfect oval , with delicate feature and large dark-blue eye .
Her hair , catch high on the crown and fall on her neck in the long curl of a bygone fashion , be a warm auburn , and the curve of her bare neck and shoulder be exquisite .
`` The other picture be that of the man to whom she be betroth .
Tell me , Amy , do you think him handsome ? ''
I look at the other portrait critically .
It be that of a young man of about twenty-five ; he be undeniably handsome , but there be something I do not like in his face and I say so .
Aunt Winnifred make no reply -- she be take out the remain content of the box .
There be a white silk fan with delicately carve ivory stick , a packet of old letter and a folded paper contain some dry and crumple flower .
Aunt lay the box aside and unpack the chest in silence .
First come a ball dress of pale-yellow satin brocade , make with the trained skirt , `` baby '' waist and full puffed sleeve of a former generation .
Beneath it be a case contain a necklace of small but perfect pearl and a pair of tiny satin slipper .
The rest of the compartment be fill with household linen , fine and costly but yellowed with age -- damask table linen and web of the uncut fabric .
In the second compartment lay a dress .
Aunt Winnifred lift it out reverently .
It be a gown of rich silk that have once be white , but now , like the linen , it be yellow with age .
It be simply make and trim with cobwebby old lace .
Wrapped around it be a long white bridal veil , redolent with some strange , old-time perfume that have keep it sweetness all through the year .
`` Well , Amy , this be all , '' say Aunt Winnifred with a quiver in her voice .
`` And now for the story .
Where shall I begin ? ''
`` At the very beginning , Aunty .
You see I know nothing at all except her name .
Tell me who she be and why she put her wed dress away here . ''
`` Poor Eliza ! ''
say Aunt dreamily .
`` It be a sorrowful story , Amy , and it seem so long ago now .
I must be an old woman .
Forty year ago -- and I be only twenty then .
Eliza Laurance be my cousin , the only daughter of Uncle Henry Laurance .
My father -- your grandfather , Amy , you do n't remember him -- have two brother , each of whom have an only daughter .
Both these girl be call Eliza after your great-grandmother .
I never saw Uncle George 's Eliza but once .
He be a rich man and his daughter be much sought after , but she be no beauty , I promise you that , and proud and vain to the last degree .
Her home be in a distant city and she never come to Wyther Grange .
`` The other Eliza Laurance be a poor man 's daughter .
She and I be of the same age and do not look unlike each other , although I be not so pretty by half .
You can see by the portrait how beautiful she be , and it do her scant justice , for half her charm lay in her arch expression and her vivacious way .
She have her little faults , of course , and be rather over much give to romance and sentiment .
This do not seem much of a defect to me then , Amy , for I be young and romantic too .
Mother never care much for Eliza , I think , but everyone else like her .
One winter Eliza come to Wyther Grange for a long visit .
The Grange be a very lively place then , Amy .
Eliza keep the old house ring with merriment .
We go out a great deal and she be always the belle of any festivity we attend .
Yet she wear her honour easily ; all the flattery and homage she receive do not turn her head .
`` That winter we first meet Willis Starr .
He be a newcomer , and nobody know much about him , but one or two of the best family take him up , and his own fascination do the rest .
He become what you would call the rage .
He be consider very handsome , his manner be polish and easy , and people say he be rich .
`` I do n't think , Amy , that I ever trust Willis Starr .
But like all the rest , I be blind by his charm .
Mother be almost the only one who do not worship at his shrine , and very often she drop hint about penniless adventurer that make Eliza very indignant .
`` From the first he have pay Eliza mark attention and seem utterly bewitch by her .
Well , his be an easy winning .
Eliza love him with her whole impulsive , girlish heart and make no attempt to hide it .
`` I shall never forget the night they be first engage .
It be Eliza 's birthday , and we be invite to a ball that even .
This yellow gown be the very one she wear .
I suppose that be why she put it away here -- the gown she wear on the happy night of her life .
I have never see her look more beautiful -- her neck and arm be bare , and she wear this string of pearl and carry a bouquet of her favourite white rose .
`` When we reach home after the dance , Eliza have her happy secret to tell u .
She be engage to Willis Starr , and they be to be marry in early spring .
`` Willis Starr certainly seem to be an ideal lover , and Eliza be so perfectly happy that she seem to grow more beautiful and radiant every day .
`` Well , Amy , the wedding day be set .
Eliza be to be marry from the Grange , a her own mother be dead , and I be to be bridesmaid .
We make her wed dress together , she and I . Girls be not above make their own gown then , and not a stitch be set in Eliza 's save those put there by love finger and bless by love wish .
It be I who drape the veil over her sunny curl -- see how yellow and crease it be now , but it be as white a snow that day .
`` A week before the wedding , Willis Starr be spend the evening at the Grange .
We be all chatter gaily about the come event , and in speaking of the invited guest Eliza say something about the other Eliza Laurance , the great heiress , look archly at Willis over her shoulder a she speak .
It be some merry badinage about the cousin whose namesake she be but whom she so little resembled .
`` We all laugh , but I shall never forget the look that come over Willis Starr 's face .
It pass quickly , but the chill fear that it give me remain .
A few minute later I leave the room on some trifling errand , and a I return through the dim hall I be meet by Willis Starr .
He lay his hand on my arm and bend his evil face -- for it be evil then , Amy -- close to mine . ''
` Tell me , ' he say in a low but rude tone , ` be there another Eliza Laurance who be an heiress ? ' ''
` Certainly there be , ' I say sharply .
` She be our cousin and the daughter of our Uncle George .
Our Eliza be not an heiress .
You surely do not suppose she be ! '
`` Willis step aside with a mocking smile . '' '
I do -- what wonder ?
I have hear much about the great heiress , Eliza Laurance , and the great beauty , Eliza Laurance .
I suppose they be one and the same .
You have all be careful not to undeceive me . ' ''
` You forget yourself , Mr. Starr , when you speak so to me , ' I retort coldly .
` You have deceive yourself .
We have never dream of allow anyone to think that Eliza be an heiress .
She be sweet and lovely enough to be love for her own sake . '
`` I go back to the parlour full of dismay .
Willis Starr remain gloomy and taciturn all the rest of the evening , but nobody seem to notice it but myself .
`` The next day we be all so busy that I almost forget the incident of the previous evening .
We girl be up in the sewing room put the last touch to the wed gown .
Eliza try it and her veil on and be stand so , in all her silken splendour , when a letter be bring in .
I guess by her blush who be the writer .
I laugh and run downstairs , leave her to read it .
`` When I return she be still stand just where I have leave her in the middle of the room , hold the letter in her hand .
Her face be as white a her veil , and her wide-open eye have a daze , agonized look a of someone who have be stricken a mortal blow .
All the soft happiness and sweetness have go out of them .
They be the eye of an old woman , Amy . ''
` Eliza , what be the matter ? '
I say .
` Has anything happen to Willis ? '
`` She make no answer , but walk to the fireplace , drop the letter in a bed of writhe blue flame and watch it burn to white ash .
Then she turn to me . ''
` Help me take off this gown , Winnie , ' she say dully . '
I shall never wear it again .
There will be no wedding .
Willis be go . ' ''
` Gone ! '
I echo stupidly . ''
` Yes .
I be not the heiress , Winnie .
It be the fortune , not the girl , he love .
He say he be too poor for u to dream of marry when I have nothing .
Oh , such a cruel , heartless letter !
Why do he not kill me ?
It would have be so much more merciful !
I love him so -- I trust him so !
Oh , Winnie , Winnie , what be I to do ! '
`` There be something terrible in the contrast between her passionate word and her calm face and lifeless voice .
I want to call Mother , but she would not let me .
She go away to her own room , trail along the dark hall in her dress and veil , and lock herself in .
`` Well , I tell it all to the others in some fashion .
You can imagine their anger and dismay .
Your father , Amy -- he be a hot-blooded , impetuous , young fellow then -- go at once to seek Willis Starr .
But he be go , no one knew where , and the whole country rang with the gossip and scandal of the affair .
Eliza know nothing of this , for she be ill and unconscious for many a day .
In a novel or story she would have die , I suppose , and that would have be the end of it .
But this be in real life , and Eliza do not die , although many time we think she would .
`` When she do recover , how frightfully change she be !
It almost break my heart to see her .
Her very nature seem to have change too -- all her joyousness and light-heartedness be dead .
From that time she be a faded , dispirited creature , no more like the Eliza we have know than the mere stranger .
And then after a while come other news -- Willis Starr be marry to the other Eliza Laurance , the true heiress .
He have make no second mistake .
We try to keep it from Eliza but she find it out at last .
That be the day she come up here alone and pack this old chest .
Nobody ever know just what she put into it .
But you and I see now , Amy -- her ball dress , her wed gown , her love letter and , more than all else , her youth and happiness -- this old chest be the tomb of it all .
Eliza Laurance be really bury here .
`` She go home soon after .
Before she go she exact a promise from Mother that the old chest should be leave at the Grange unopened until she come for it herself .
But she never come back , and I do not think she ever intend to , and I never saw her again .
`` That be the story of the old chest .
It be all over so long ago -- the heartbreak and the misery -- but it all seem to come back to me now .
Poor Eliza ! ''
My own eye be full of tear a Aunt Winnifred go down the stair , leave me sit dreamily there in the sunset light , with the old yellowed bridal veil across my lap and the portrait of Eliza Laurance in my hand .
Around me be the relic of her pitiful story -- the old , oft-repeated story of a faithless love and a woman 's broken heart -- the gown she have wear , the slipper in which she have dance light-heartedly at her betrothal ball , her fan , her pearl , her glove -- and it somehow seem to me a if I be live in those old year myself , a if the love and happiness , the betrayal and pain be part of my own life .
Presently Aunt Winnifred come back through the twilight shadow .
`` Let u put all these thing back in their grave , Amy , '' she say .
`` They be of no use to anyone now .
The linen might be bleach and use , I dare say -- but it would seem like a sacrilege .
It be Mother 's wedding present to Eliza .
And the pearl -- would you care to have them , Amy ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' I say with a little shiver .
`` I would never wear them , Aunt Winnifred .
I should feel like a ghost if I do .
Put everything back just a we find it -- only her portrait .
I would like to keep that . ''
Reverently we put gown and letter and trinket back into the old blue chest .
Aunt Winnifred close the lid and turn the key softly .
She bow her head over it for a minute and then we go together in silence down the shadowy garret stair of Wyther Grange .
The Osbornes ' Christmas Cousin Myra have come to spend Christmas at `` The Firs , '' and all the junior Osbornes be ready to stand on their head with delight .
Darby -- whose real name be Charles -- do it , because he be only eight , and at eight you have no dignity to keep up .
The others , be old , could n't .
But the fact of Christmas itself awake no great enthusiasm in the heart of the junior Osbornes .
Frank voice their opinion of it the day after Cousin Myra have arrive .
He be sit on the table with his hand in his pocket and a cynical sneer on his face .
At least , Frank flatter himself that it be cynical .
He know that Uncle Edgar be say to wear a cynical sneer , and Frank admire Uncle Edgar very much and imitate him in every possible way .
But to you and me it would have look just a it do to Cousin Myra -- a very discontented and unbecoming scowl .
`` I 'm awfully glad to see you , Cousin Myra , '' explain Frank carefully , `` and your be here may make some thing worth while .
But Christmas be just a bore -- a regular bore . ''
That be what Uncle Edgar call thing that do n't interest him , so that Frank felt pretty sure of his word .
Nevertheless , he wonder uncomfortably what make Cousin Myra smile so queerly .
`` Why , how dreadful ! ''
she say brightly .
`` I think all boy and girl look upon Christmas a the very best time in the year . ''
`` We do n't , '' say Frank gloomily .
`` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
We know just exactly what be go to happen .
We even know pretty well what present we be go to get .
And Christmas Day itself be always the same .
We 'll get up in the morning , and our stocking will be full of thing , and half of them we do n't want .
Then there 's dinner .
It 's always so poky .
And all the uncle and aunt come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same thing .
Aunt Desda always say , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grow ! '
She know I hate to be call Frankie .
And after dinner they 'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
Yes , I call Christmas a nuisance . ''
`` There be n't a single bit of fun in it , '' say Ida discontentedly .
`` Not a bit ! ''
say the twin , both together , a they always say thing .
`` There 's lot of candy , '' say Darby stoutly .
He rather like Christmas , although he be ashamed to say so before Frank .
Cousin Myra smother another of those queer smile .
`` You 've have too much Christmas , you Osbornes , '' she say seriously .
`` It have pal on your taste , a all good thing will if you overdo them .
Did you ever try give Christmas to somebody else ? ''
The Osbornes look at Cousin Myra doubtfully .
They do n't understand .
`` We always send present to all our cousin , '' say Frank hesitatingly .
`` That 's a bore , too .
They 've all get so many thing already it 's no end of bother to think of something new . ''
`` That be n't what I mean , '' say Cousin Myra .
`` How much Christmas do you suppose those little Rolands down there in the hollow have ?
Or Sammy Abbott with his lame back ?
Or French Joe 's family over the hill ?
If you have too much Christmas , why do n't you give some to them ? ''
The Osbornes look at each other .
This be a new idea .
`` How could we do it ? ''
ask Ida .
Whereupon they have a consultation .
Cousin Myra explain her plan , and the Osbornes grow enthusiastic over it .
Even Frank forget that he be suppose to be wear a cynical sneer .
`` I move we do it , Osbornes , '' say he .
`` If Father and Mother be willing , '' say Ida .
`` Wo n't it be jolly ! ''
exclaim the twin .
`` Well , rather , '' say Darby scornfully .
He do not mean to be scornful .
He have hear Frank say the same word in the same tone , and think it signify approval .
Cousin Myra have a talk with Father and Mother Osborne that night , and find them heartily in sympathy with her plan .
For the next week the Osbornes be agog with excitement and interest .
At first Cousin Myra make the suggestion , but their enthusiasm soon outstrip her , and they think out thing for themselves .
Never do a week pas so quickly .
And the Osbornes have never have such fun , either .
Christmas morning there be not a single present give or receive at `` The Firs '' except those which Cousin Myra and Mr. and Mrs. Osborne give to each other .
The junior Osbornes have ask that the money which their parent have plan to spend in present for them be give to them the previous week ; and give it be , without a word .
The uncle and aunt arrive in due time , but not with them be the junior Osbornes ' concern .
They be the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Osborne .
The junior Osbornes be have a Christmas dinner party of their own .
In the small dining room a table be spread and load with good thing .
Ida and the twin cook that dinner all by themselves .
To be sure , Cousin Myra have help some , and Frank and Darby have stone all the raisin and help pull the home-made candy ; and all together they have decorate the small dining room royally with Christmas green .
Then their guest come .
First , all the little Rolands from the Hollow arrive -- seven in all , with very red , shin face and not a word to say for themselves , so shy be they .
Then come a troop from French Joe 's -- four black-eyed lad , who never know what shyness meant .
Frank drive down to the village in the cutter and bring lame Sammy back with him , and soon after the last guest arrive -- little Tillie Mather , who be Miss Rankin 's `` orphan ` sylum girl '' from over the road .
Everybody know that Miss Rankin never keep Christmas .
She do not believe in it , she say , but she do not prevent Tillie from go to the Osbornes ' dinner party .
Just at first the guest be a little stiff and unsocial ; but they soon get acquaint , and so jolly be Cousin Myra -- who have her dinner with the child in preference to the grown-ups -- and so friendly the junior Osbornes , that all stiffness vanish .
What a merry dinner it be !
What peal of laughter go up , reach to the big dining room across the hall , where the grown-ups sat in rather solemn state .
And how those guest do eat and frankly enjoy the good thing before them !
How nicely they all behave , even to the French Joes !
Myra have secretly be a little dubious about those four mischievous-looking lad , but their manner be quite flawless .
Mrs. French Joe have be drill them for three day -- ever since they have be invite to `` de Chrismus dinner at de beeg house . ''
After the merry dinner be over , the junior Osbornes bring in a Christmas tree , load with present .
They have buy them with the money that Mr. and Mrs. Osborne have mean for their own present , and a splendid assortment they be .
All the French-Joe boy get a pair of skate apiece , and Sammy a set of beautiful book , and Tillie be make supremely happy with a big wax doll .
Every little Roland get just what his or her small heart have be long for .
Besides , there be nut and candy galore .
Then Frank hitch up his pony again , but this time into a great pung sleigh , and the junior Osbornes take their guest for a sleigh-drive , chaperon by Cousin Myra .
It be just dusk when they get back , have drive the Rolands and the French Joes and Sammy and Tillie to their respective home .
`` This have be the jolly Christmas I ever spend , '' say Frank , emphatically .
`` I think we be just go to give the others a good time , but it be they who give it to u , '' say Ida .
`` Were n't the French Joes jolly ? ''
giggle the twin .
`` Such cute speech a they would make ! ''
`` Me and Teddy Roland be go to be chum after this , '' announce Darby .
`` He 's an inch taller than me , but I 'm wide . ''
That night Frank and Ida and Cousin Myra have a little talk after the small Osbornes have be hale off to bed .
`` We 're not go to stop with Christmas , Cousin Myra , '' say Frank , at the end of it .
`` We 're just go to keep on through the year .
We 've never have such a delightful old Christmas before . ''
`` You 've learn the secret of happiness , '' say Cousin Myra gently .
And the Osbornes understand what she mean .
The Romance of Aunt Beatrice Margaret always maintain that it be a direct inspiration of Providence that take her across the street to see Aunt Beatrice that night .
And Aunt Beatrice believe that it be too .
But the truth of the matter be that Margaret be feel very unhappy , and go over to talk to Aunt Beatrice a the only alternative to a fit of cry .
Margaret 's unhappiness have nothing far to do with this story , so it may be dismiss with the remark that it do not amount to much , in spite of Margaret 's tragical attitude , and be dissipate at once and forever by the arrival of a certain missent letter the next day .
Aunt Beatrice be alone .
Her brother and his wife have go to the `` at home '' which Mrs. Cunningham be give that night in honour of the Honourable John Reynolds , M.P . .
The child be upstairs in bed , and Aunt Beatrice be darn their stocking , a big basketful of which loom up aggressively on the table beside her .
Or , to speak more correctly , she have be darn them .
Just when Margaret be slide across the icy street Aunt Beatrice be bent forward in her chair , her hand over her face , while soft , shrink little sobs shook her from head to foot .
When Margaret 's imperative knock come at the front door , Aunt Beatrice start guiltily and wish earnestly that she have wait until she go to bed before cry , if cry she must .
She know Margaret 's knock , and she do not want her gay young niece , of all people in the world , to suspect the fact or the cause of her tear .
`` I hope she wo n't notice my eye , '' she think , a she hastily plump a big ugly dark-green shade , with an almond-eyed oriental leering from it , over the lamp , before go out to let Margaret in .
Margaret do not notice at first .
She be too deeply absorbed in her own trouble to think that anyone else in the world could be miserable too .
She curl up in the deep easy-chair by the fire , and clasp her hand behind her curly head with a sigh of physical comfort and mental unhappiness , while Aunt Beatrice , warily sit with her back to the light , take up her work again .
`` You do n't go to Mrs. Cunningham 's ` at home , ' Auntie , '' say Margaret lazily , feel that she must make some conversation to justify her appearance .
`` You be invite , be n't you ? ''
Aunt Beatrice nod .
The hole she be darn in the knee of Willie Hayden 's stocking must be do very carefully .
Mrs. George Hayden be particular about such matter .
Perhaps this be why Aunt Beatrice do not speak .
`` Why do n't you go ? ''
ask Margaret absently , wonder why there have be no letter for her that morning -- and this be the third day too !
Could Gilbert be ill ?
Or be he flirt with some other girl and forget her ?
Margaret swallow a big lump in her throat , and resolve that she would go home next week -- no , she would n't , either -- if he be a hateful and fickle a that -- what be Aunt Beatrice say ?
`` Well , I 'm -- I 'm not use to go to party now , my dear .
And the truth be I have no dress fit to wear .
At least Bella say so , because the party be to be a very fashionable affair .
She say my old grey silk would n't do at all .
Of course she know .
She have to have a new dress for it , and , we could n't both have that .
George could n't afford it these hard time .
And , a Bella say , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
But it do n't matter .
And , of course , somebody have to stay with the child . ''
`` Of course , '' assent Margaret dreamily .
Mrs. Cunningham 's `` at home '' be of no particular interest .
The guest be all middle-aged people whom the M.P . have know in his boyhood and Margaret , in her presumptuous youth , think it would be a very prosy affair , although it have make quite a sensation in quiet little Murraybridge , where people still call an `` at home '' a party plain and simple .
`` I saw Mr. Reynolds in church Sunday afternoon , '' she go on .
`` He be very fine-looking , I think .
Did you ever meet him ? ''
`` I use to know him very well long ago , '' answer Aunt Beatrice , bow still low over her work .
`` He use to live down in Wentworth , you know , and he visit his married sister here very often .
He be only a boy at that time .
Then -- he go out to British Columbia and -- and -- we never hear much more about him . ''
`` He 's very rich and own dozen of mine and railroad and thing like that , '' say Margaret , `` and he 's a member of the Dominion Parliament , too .
They say he 's one of the foremost men in the House and come very near get a portfolio in the new cabinet .
I like men like that .
They be so interesting .
Would n't it be awfully nice and complimentary to have one of them in love with you ?
Is he marry ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' say Aunt Beatrice faintly .
`` I have never hear that he be . ''
`` There , you 've run the needle into your finger , '' say Margaret sympathetically .
`` It 's of no consequence , '' say Aunt Beatrice hastily .
She wipe away the drop of blood and go on with her work .
Margaret watch her dreamily .
What lovely hair Aunt Beatrice have !
It be so thick and glossy , with warm bronze tone where the lamp-light fell on it under that hideous weird old shade .
But Aunt Beatrice wear it in such an unbecoming way .
Margaret idly wonder if she would comb her hair straight back and prim when she be thirty-five .
She think it very probable if that letter do not come tomorrow .
From Aunt Beatrice 's hair Margaret 's eye fell to Aunt Beatrice 's face .
She give a little jump .
Had Aunt Beatrice be cry ?
Margaret sit bolt upright .
`` Aunt Beatrice , do you want to go to that party ? ''
she demand explosively .
`` Now tell me the truth . ''
`` I do , '' say Aunt Beatrice weakly .
Margaret 's sudden attack fairly startle the truth out of her .
`` It be very silly of me , I know , but I do want to go .
I do n't care about a new dress .
I 'd have be quite willing to wear my grey silk , and I could have fix the sleeve .
What difference would it have make ?
Nobody would ever have notice me , but Bella think it would n't do . ''
She pause long enough to give a little sob which she could not repress .
Margaret make use of the opportunity to exclaim violently , `` It 's a shame ! ''
`` I suppose you do n't understand why I want to go to this particular party so much , '' go on Aunt Beatrice shyly .
`` I 'll tell you why -- if you wo n't laugh at me .
I want to see John Reynolds -- not to talk to him -- oh , I dare say he would n't remember me -- but just to see him .
Long ago -- fifteen year ago -- we be engage .
And -- and -- I love him so much then , Margaret . ''
`` You poor dear ! ''
say Margaret sympathetically .
She reach over and pat her aunt 's hand .
She think that this little bit of romance , long hidden and unsuspected , blossom out under her eye , be charm .
In her interest she quite forget her own pet grievance .
`` Yes -- and then we quarrel .
It be a dreadful quarrel and it be about such a trifle .
We part in anger and he go away .
He never come back .
It be all my fault .
Well , it be all over long ago and everybody have forget .
I -- I do n't mind it now .
But I just want to see him once more and then come quietly away . ''
`` Aunt Beatrice , you be go to that party yet , '' say Margaret decisively .
`` Oh , it be impossible , my dear . ''
`` No , it be n't .
Nothing be impossible when I make up my mind .
You must go .
I 'll drag you there by main force if it come to that .
Oh , I have such a jolly plan , Auntie .
You know my black and yellow dinner dress -- no , you do n't either , for I 've never wear it here .
The folk at home all say it be too severe for me -- and so it be .
Nothing suit me but the fluffy , chuffy thing with a tilt to them .
Gil -- er -- I mean -- well , yes , Gilbert always declare that dress make me look like a cross between an unwilling nun and a ballet girl , so I take a dislike to it .
But it 's as lovely a a dream .
Oh , when you see it your eye will stick out .
You must wear it tonight .
It 's just your style , and I 'm sure it will fit you , for our figure be so much alike . ''
`` But it be too late . '' ''
'T be n't .
It 's not more than half an hour since Uncle George and Aunt Bella go .
I 'll have you ready in a twinkling . ''
`` But the fire -- and the child ! ''
`` I 'll stay here and look after both .
I wo n't burn the house down , and if the twin wake up I 'll give them -- what be it you give them -- soothe syrup ?
So go at once and get you ready , while I fly over for the dress .
I 'll fix your hair up when I get back . ''
Margaret be go before Aunt Beatrice could speak again .
Her niece 's excitement seize hold of her too .
She fling the stocking into the basket and the basket into the closet .
`` I will go -- and I wo n't do another bit of darn tonight .
I hate it -- I hate it -- I hate it !
Oh , how much good it do me to say it ! ''
When Margaret come fly up the stair Aunt Beatrice be ready save for hair and dress .
Margaret cast the gown on the bed , reveal all it beauty of jetted lace and soft yellow silk with a dextrous sweep of her arm .
Aunt Beatrice give a little cry of admiration .
`` Is n't it lovely ? ''
demand Margaret .
`` And I 've bring you my opera cape and my fascinator and my black satin slipper with the cunning gold buckle , and some sweet pale yellow rose that Uncle Ned give me yesterday .
Oh , Aunt Beatrice !
What magnificent arm and shoulder you have !
They 're like marble .
Mine be so scrawny I 'm just ashamed to have people know they belong to me . ''
Margaret 's nimble finger be keep time with her tongue .
Aunt Beatrice 's hair go up a if by magic into soft puff and wave and twist , and a golden rise be drop among the bronze mass .
Then the lovely dress be put on and pin and loop and pull until it fell into it simple , classical line around the tall , curve figure .
Margaret step back and clap her hand admiringly .
`` Oh , Auntie , you 're beautiful !
Now I 'll pop down for the cloak and fascinator .
I leave them hang by the fire . ''
When Margaret have go Aunt Beatrice catch up the lamp and tiptoed shamefacedly across the hall to the icy-cold spare room .
In the long mirror she saw herself reflect from top to toe -- or be it herself !
Could it be -- that gracious woman with the sweet eye and flushed cheek , with rounded arm gleam through their black lace and the cluster of rose nestle against the warm white flesh of the shoulder ?
`` I do look nice , '' she say aloud , with a little curtsey to the radiant reflection .
`` It be all the dress , I know .
I feel like a queen in it -- no , like a girl again -- and that 's good . ''
Margaret go to Mrs. Cunningham 's door with her .
`` How I wish I could go in and see the sensation you 'll make , Aunt Beatrice , '' she whisper .
`` You dear , silly child !
It 's just the purple and fine linen , '' laugh Aunt Beatrice .
But she do not altogether think so , and she ring the doorbell unquailingly .
In the hall Mrs. Cunningham herself come beamingly to greet her .
`` My dear Beatrice !
I 'm so glad .
Bella say you could not come because you have a headache . ''
`` My headache get quite well after they leave , and so I think I would get ready and come , even if it be rather late , '' say Beatrice glibly , wonder if Sapphira have ever wear a black-and-yellow dress , and if so , might not her historic falsehood be trace to it influence ?
When they come downstairs together , Beatrice , statuesque and erect in her trailing drapery , and Mrs. Cunningham secretly wonder where on earth Beatrice Hayden have get such a magnificent dress and what she have do to herself to make her look a she do -- a man come through the hall .
At the foot of the stair they meet .
He put out his hand .
`` Beatrice !
It must be Beatrice !
How little you have change ! ''
Mrs. Cunningham be not particularly note in Murraybridge for her tact , but she have a sudden visitation of the save grace at that moment , and leave the two alone .
Beatrice put her hand into the M.P . 's .
`` I be glad to see you , '' she say simply , look up at him .
She could not say that he have not change , for there be little in this tall , broad-shouldered man of the world , with grey glint in his hair , to suggest the slim , boyish young lover whose image she have carry in her heart all the long year .
But the voice , though deep and mellow , be the same , and the thin , clever mouth that go up at one corner and down at the other in a humorous twist ; and one little curl of reddish hair fell over his forehead away from it orderly fellow , just a it use to when she have love to poke her finger through it ; and , more than all , the deep-set grey eye look down into her blue one be unchanged .
Beatrice felt her heart beating to her fingertip .
`` I think you be not come , '' he say .
`` I expect to meet you here and I be horribly disappointed .
I think the bitterness of that foolish old quarrel must be strong enough to sway you yet . ''
`` Did n't Bella tell you I have a headache ? ''
faltered Beatrice .
`` Bella ?
Oh , your brother 's wife !
I be n't talk to her .
I 've be sulk in corner ever since I conclude you be not come .
How beautiful you be , Beatrice !
You 'll let an old friend say that much , wo n't you ? ''
Beatrice laugh softly .
She have forget for year that she be beautiful , but the sweet old knowledge have come back to her again .
She could not help know that he speak the simple truth , but she say mirthfully , `` You 've learn to flatter since the old day , have n't you ?
Do n't you remember you use to tell me I be too thin to be pretty ?
But I suppose a bit of blarney be a necessary ingredient in the composition of an M.P. '' He be still hold her hand .
With a glance of dissatisfaction at the open parlour door , he draw her away to the little room at the end of the hall , which Mrs. Cunningham , for reason know only to herself , call her library .
`` Come in here with me , '' he say masterfully .
`` I want to have a long talk with you before the other people get hold of you . ''
When Beatrice get home from the party ten minute before her brother and his wife , Margaret be sit Turk fashion in the big armchair , with her eye very wide open and owlish .
`` You dear girlie , be you asleep ? ''
ask Aunt Beatrice indulgently .
Margaret nod .
`` Yes , and I 've let the fire go out .
I hope you 're not cold .
I must run before Aunt Bella get here , or she 'll scold .
Had a nice time ? ''
`` Delightful .
You be a dear to lend me this dress .
It be so funny to see Bella star at it . ''
When Margaret have put on her hat and jacket she go as far a the street door , and then tiptoe back to the sitting-room .
Aunt Beatrice be lean back in the armchair , with a drooping rise hold softly against her lip , gaze dreamily into the dull red ember .
`` Auntie , '' say Margaret contritely , `` I ca n't go home without confess , although I know it be a heinous offence to interrupt the kind of muse that go with die ember and faded rose in the small hour .
But it would weigh on my conscience all night if I do n't .
I be asleep , but I waken up just before you come in and go to the window .
I do n't mean to spy upon anyone -- but that street be bright a day !
And if you will let an M.P . kiss you on the doorstep in glare moonlight , you must expect to be see . ''
`` I would n't have care if there have be a dozen onlooker , '' say Aunt Beatrice frankly , `` and I do n't believe he would either . ''
Margaret throw up her hand .
`` Well , my conscience be clear , at least .
And remember , Aunt Beatrice , I 'm to be bridesmaid -- I insist upon that .
And , oh , wo n't you ask me to visit you when you go down to Ottawa next winter ?
I 'm tell it 's such a jolly place when the House be in session .
And you 'll need somebody to help you entertain , you know .
The wife of a cabinet minister have to do lot of that .
But I forget -- he be n't a cabinet minister yet .
But he will be , of course .
Promise that you 'll have me , Aunt Beatrice , promise quick .
I hear Uncle George and Aunt Bella come . ''
Aunt Beatrice promise .
Margaret fly to the door .
`` You 'd better keep that dress , '' she call back softly , a she open it .
The Running Away of Chester Chester do the chore with unusual vim that night .
His lip be set and there be an air of resolution a plainly visible on his small , freckled face a if it have be stamp there .
Mrs. Elwell saw him fly around , and her grim feature take on a still grim expression .
`` Ches be mighty lively tonight , '' she mutter .
`` I s ` pose he 's in a gog to be off on some foolishness with Henry Wilson .
Well , he wo n't , and he need n't think it . ''
Lige Barton , the hired man , also think this be Chester 's purpose , but he take a more lenient view of it than do Mrs. Elwell .
`` The little chap be go through thing with a rush this evening , '' he reflect .
`` Guess he 's lay out for a bit of fun with the Wilson boy . ''
But Chester be not plan anything connect with Henry Wilson , who live on the other side of the pond and be the only chum he possess .
After the chore be do , he linger a little while around the barn , get his courage key up to the necessary pitch .
Chester Stephens be an orphan without kith or kin in the world , unless his father 's stepsister , Mrs. Harriet Elwell , could be call so .
His parent have die in his babyhood , and Mrs. Elwell have take him to bring up .
She be a harsh woman , with a violent temper , and she have scold and worry the boy all his short life .
Upton people say it be a shame , but nobody felt call upon to interfere .
Mrs. Elwell be not a person one would care to make an enemy of .
She eye Chester sourly when he go in , expect some request to be allow to go with Henry , and prepare to refuse it sharply .
`` Aunt Harriet , '' say Chester suddenly , `` can I go to school this year ?
It begin tomorrow . ''
`` No , '' say Mrs. Elwell , when she have recover from her surprise at this unexpected question .
`` You 've have schoolin ' in plenty -- more 'n I ever have , and all you 're goin ' to get ! ''
`` But , Aunt Harriet , '' persist Chester , his face flush with earnestness , `` I 'm nearly thirteen , and I can barely read and write a little .
The other boy be ever so far ahead of me .
I do n't know anything . ''
`` You know enough to be disrespectful ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Elwell .
`` I suppose you want to go to school to idle away your time , a you do at home -- lazy good-for-nothing that you be ! ''
Chester thought of the drudgery that have be his portion all his life .
He resent be call lazy when he be willing enough to work , but he make one more appeal .
`` If you 'll let me go to school this year , I 'll work twice as hard out of school to make up for it -- indeed , I will .
Do let me go , Aunt Harriet .
I have n't be to school a day for over a year . ''
`` Let 's hear no more of this nonsense , '' say Mrs. Elwell , take a bottle from the shelf above her with the air of one who close a discussion .
`` Here , run down to the Bridge and get me this bottle full of vinegar at Jacob 's store .
Be smart , too , d 'ye hear !
I ai n't go to have you idle around the Bridge neither .
If you ai n't back in twenty minute , it wo n't be well for you . ''
Chester do his errand at the Bridge with a heart full of bitter disappointment and anger .
`` I wo n't stand it any longer ! ''
he mutter .
`` I 'll run away -- I do n't care where , so long a it 's away from her .
I wish I could get out West on the harvest excursion . ''
On his return home , a he cross the yard in the dusk , he stumble over a stick of wood and fell .
The bottle of vinegar slip from his hand and be break on the doorstep .
Mrs. Elwell saw the accident from the window .
She rush out and jerk the unlucky lad to his foot .
`` Take that , you sulky little cub ! ''
she exclaim , cuff his ear soundly .
`` I 'll teach you to break and spill thing you 're send for !
You do it on purpose .
Get off to bed with you this instant . ''
Chester creep off to his garret chamber with a very sullen face .
He be too use to be send to bed without any supper to care much for that , although he be hungry .
But his whole be be in a tumult of rebellion over the injustice that be meted out to him .
`` I wo n't stand it ! ''
he mutter over and over again .
`` I 'll run away .
I wo n't stay here . ''
To talk of run away be one thing .
To do it without a cent in your pocket or a place to run to be another .
But Chester have a great deal of determination in his make-up when it be fairly rouse , and his hard upbringing have make him old and shrewd than his year .
He lay awake late that night , think out way and mean , but could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion .
The next day Mrs. Elwell say , `` Ches , Abner Stearns want you to go up there for a fortnight while Tom Bixby be away , and drive the milk wagon of morning and do the chore for Mrs. Stearns .
You might as well put in the time ` fore harvest that way a any other .
So hustle off -- and mind you behave yourself . ''
Chester hear the news gladly .
He have not yet devise any feasible plan for run away , and he always like to work at the Stearns ' place .
To be sure , Mrs. Elwell receive all the money he earn , but Mrs. Stearns be kind to him , and though he have to work hard and constantly , he be well feed and well treat by all .
The following fortnight be a comparatively happy one for the lad .
But he do not forget his purpose of shake the dust of Upton from his foot as soon a possible , and he cudgel his brain try to find a way .
On the evening when he leave the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns pay him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell have always insist that all such money should be pay directly to her .
Chester find himself the possessor of four dollar -- an amount of rich that almost take away his breath .
He have never in his whole life own more than ten cent at a time .
As he tramp along the road home , he keep his hand in his pocket , hold fast to the money , a if he fear it would otherwise dissolve into thin air .
His mind be firmly make up .
He would run away once and for all .
This money be rightly his ; he have earn every cent of it .
It would surely last him until he find employment elsewhere .
At any rate , he would go ; and even if he starve , he would never come back to Aunt Harriet 's !
When he reach home , he find Mrs. Elwell in an unusual state of worry .
Lige have give warning -- and this on the verge of harvest !
`` Did Stearns say anything about come down tomorrow to pay me for your work ? ''
she ask .
`` No , ma'am .
He do n't say a word about it , '' say Chester boldly .
`` Well , I hope he will .
Take yourself off to bed , Ches .
I 'm sick of see you stand there , on one foot or t ` other , like a gander . ''
Chester have be shift about uneasily .
He realize that , if his project do not miscarry , he would not see his aunt again , and his heart soften to her .
Harsh a she be , she be the only protector he have ever know , and the boy have a vague wish to carry away with him some kindly word or look from her .
Such , however , be not forthcoming , and Chester obey her command and take himself off to the garret .
Here he sit down and reflect on his plan .
He must go that very night .
When Mr. Stearns fail to appear on the morrow , Mrs. Elwell be quite likely to march up and demand the amount of Chester 's wage .
It would all come out then , and he would lose his money -- besides , no doubt , get severely punish into the bargain .
His preparation do not take long .
He have nothing to carry with him .
The only decent suit of clothes he possess be his well-worn Sunday one .
This he put on , carefully stow away in his pocket the precious four dollar .
He have to wait until he think his aunt be asleep , and it be about eleven when he creep downstairs , his heart quake within him , and get out by the porch window .
When he find himself alone in the clear moonlight of the August night , a sense of elation fill his cramped little heart .
He be free , and he would never come back here -- never !
`` Wisht I could have see Henry to say good-by to him , though , '' he mutter with a wistful glance at the big house across the pond where the unconscious Henry be sleep soundly with never a thought of moonlight flittings for anyone in his curly head .
Chester meant to walk to Roxbury Station ten mile away .
Nobody know him there , and he could catch the morning train .
Late a it be , he keep to field and wood-roads lest he might be see and recognize .
It be three o'clock when he reach Roxbury , and he know the train do not pass through until six .
With the serenity of a philosopher who be start out to win his way in the world and mean to make the best of thing , Chester curl himself up in the hollow space of a big lumber pile behind the station , and so tired be he that he fell soundly asleep in a few minute .
* * * * * Chester be awaken by the shriek of the express at the last crossing before the station .
In a panic of haste he scramble out of his lumber and dash into the station house , where a sleepy , ill-natured agent stand behind the ticket window .
He look sharply enough at the freckled , square-jawed boy who ask for a second-class ticket to Belltown .
Chester 's heart quake within him at the momentary thought that the ticket agent recognize him .
He have an agonized vision of be collar without ceremony and hale straightway back to Aunt Harriet .
When the ticket and his change be push out to him , he snatch them and fairly run .
`` Bolted a if the police be after him , '' reflect the agent , who do not sell many ticket and so have time to take a personal interest in the purchaser thereof .
`` I 've see that youngster before , though I ca n't recollect where .
He 's get a most fearful determined look . ''
Chester draw an audible sigh of relief when the train leave the station .
He be fairly off now and felt that he could defy even curious railway official .
It be not his first train ride , for Mrs. Elwell have once take him to Belltown to get an ache tooth extract , but it be certainly his first under such exhilarating circumstance , and he mean to enjoy it .
To be sure , he be very hungry , but that , he reflect , be only what he would probably be many time before he make his fortune , and it be just as well to get use to it .
Meanwhile , it behoove him to keep his eye open .
On the road from Roxbury to Belltown there be not much to be see that morning that Chester do not see .
The train reach Belltown about noon .
He do not mean to stop long there -- it be too near Upton .
From the conductor on the train , he find that a boat leave Belltown for Montrose at two in the afternoon .
Montrose be a hundred mile from Upton , and Chester think he would be safe there .
To Montrose , accordingly , he decide to go , but the first thing be to get some dinner .
He go into a grocery store and buy some cracker and a bit of cheese .
He have somewhere pick up the idea that cracker and cheese be about as economical food a you could find for adventurous youth start out on small capital .
He find his way to the only public square Belltown boast , and munch his food hungrily on a bench under the tree .
He would go to Montrose and there find something to do .
Later on he would gradually work his way out West , where there be more room for an ambitious small boy to expand and grow .
Chester dream some dazzling dream a he sit there on the bench under the Belltown chestnut .
Passers-by , if they notice him at all , saw merely a rather small , poorly clad boy , with a great many freckle , a square jaw and shrewd , level-gazing grey eye .
But this same lad be map out a very brilliant future for himself a people pass him heedlessly by .
He would get out West , somehow or other , some time or other , and make a fortune .
Then , perhaps , he would go back to Upton for a visit and shine in his splendour before all his old neighbour .
It all seem very easy and allure , sit there in the quiet little Belltown square .
Chester , you see , possessed imagination .
That , together with the cracker and cheese , so cheer him up that he felt ready for anything .
He be arouse from a dream of pass Aunt Harriet by in lofty scorn and a glittering carriage , by the shrill whistle of the boat .
Chester pocket his remain cracker and cheese and his vision also , and be once more his alert , wide-awake self .
He have inquire the way to the wharf from the grocer , so he find no difficulty in reach it .
When the boat steam down the muddy little river , Chester be on board of her .
He be glad to be out of Belltown , for he be anything but sure that he would not encounter some Upton people as long a he be in it .
They often go to Belltown on business , but never to Montrose .
There be not many passenger on the boat , and Chester scrutinize them all so sharply in turn that he could have swear to each and every one of them for year afterwards have it be necessary .
The one he like best be a middle-aged lady who sit just before him on the opposite side of the deck She be plump and motherly look , with a fresh , rosy face and beam blue eye .
`` If I be look for anyone to adopt me I 'd pick her , '' say Chester to himself .
The more he look at her , the good he like her .
He label her in his mind a `` the nice , rosy lady . ''
The nice , rosy lady notice Chester star at her after awhile .
She smile promptly at him -- a smile that seem fairly to irradiate her round face -- and then begin fumble in an old-fashioned reticule she carry , and from which she presently extract a chubby little paper bag .
`` If you like candy , little boy , '' she say to Chester , `` here be some of my sugar taffy for you . ''
Chester do not exactly like be call a little boy .
But her voice and smile be irresistible and win his heart straightway .
He take the candy with a shy , `` Thank you , ma'am , '' and sit hold it in his hand .
`` Eat it , '' command the rosy lady authoritatively .
`` That be what taffy be for , you know . ''
So Chester ate it .
It be the most delicious thing he have ever taste in his life , and fill a void which even the cracker and cheese have leave vacant .
The rosy lady watch every mouthful he eat a if she enjoy it more than he do .
When he have finish the taffy she smile one of her sociable smile again and say , `` Well , what do you think of it ? ''
`` It 's the nice taffy I ever eat , '' answer Chester enthusiastically , a if he be a connoisseur in all kind of taffy .
The rosy lady nod , well pleased .
`` That be just what everyone say about my sugar taffy .
Nobody up our way can match it , though goodness know they try hard enough .
My great-grandmother invent the recipe herself , and it have be in our family ever since .
I 'm real glad you like it . ''
She smile at him again , a if his appreciation of her taffy be a bond of good fellowship between them .
She do not know it but , nevertheless , she be fill the heart of a desperate small boy , who have run away from home , with hope and encouragement and self-reliance .
If there be such kind folk a this in the world , why , he would get along all right .
The rosy lady 's smile and taffy -- the smile much more than the taffy -- go far to thaw out of him a certain hardness and resentfulness against people in general that Aunt Harriet 's harsh treatment have instill into him .
Chester instantly make a resolve that when he grow stout and rosy and prosperous he would dispense smile and taffy and good cheer generally to all forlorn small boy on boat and train .
It be almost dark when they reach Montrose .
Chester lose sight of the rosy lady when they leave the boat , and it give him a lonesome feeling ; but he could not indulge in that for long at a time .
Here he be at his destination -- at dark , in a strange city a hundred mile from home .
`` The first thing be to find somewhere to sleep , '' he say to himself , resolutely decline to feel frightened , although the temptation be very strong .
Montrose be not really a very big place .
It be only a bustling little town of some twenty thousand inhabitant , but to Chester 's eye it be a vast metropolis .
He have never be in any place big than Belltown , and in Belltown you could see one end of it , at least , no matter where you be .
Montrose seem endless to Chester a he stand at the head of Water Street and gaze in bewilderment along one of it main business avenue -- a big , glittering , whirl place where one small boy could so easily be swallow up that he would never be hear of again .
Chester , after pay his fare to Montrose and buy his cheese and cracker , have just sixty cent leave .
This must last him until he find work , so that the luxury of lodging be out of the question , even if he have know where to look for them .
To be sure , there be bench in a public square right in front of him ; but Chester be afraid that if he curl up on one of them for the night , a policeman might question him , and he do not believe he could give a very satisfactory account of himself .
In his perplexity , he think of his cosy lumber pile at Roxbury Station and remember that when he have leave the boat he have notice a large vacant lot near the wharf which be fill with pile of lumber .
Back to this he go and soon succeed in find a place to stow himself .
His last waking think be that he must be up and do bright and early the next morning , and that it must surely be long than twenty-four hour since he have creep downstairs and out of Aunt Harriet 's porch window at Upton .
* * * * * Montrose seem less alarming by daylight , which be not so bewildering a the blink electric light .
Chester be up betimes , eat the last of his cheese and cracker and start out at once to look for work .
He determine to be thorough , and he go straight into every place of business he come to , from a blacksmith 's forge to a department store , and boldly ask the first person he meet if they want a boy there .
There be , however , one class of place Chester shun determinedly .
He never go into a liquor saloon .
The last winter he have be allow to go to school in Upton , his teacher have be a pale , patient little woman who hat the liquor traffic with all her heart .
She herself have suffer bitterly through it , and she instill into her pupil a thorough aversion to it .
Chester would have choose death by starvation before he would have seek for employment in a liquor saloon .
But there certainly do not seem room for him anywhere else .
Nobody want a boy .
The answer to his question be invariably `` No . ''
As the day wear on , Chester 's hope and courage go down to zero , but he still tramp doggedly about .
He would be thorough , at least .
Surely somewhere in this big place , where everyone seem so busy , there must be something for him to do .
Once there seem a chance of success .
He have go into a big provision store and ask the clerk behind the counter if they want a boy .
`` Well , we do , '' say the clerk , look him over critically , `` but I hardly think you 'll fill the bill .
However , come in and see the bos . ''
He take Chester into a dark , grimy little inner office where a fat , stubby man be sit before a desk with his foot upon it .
`` Hey ?
What ! ''
he say when the clerk explain .
`` Looking for the place ?
Why , sonny , you 're not half big enough . ''
`` Oh , I 'm a great deal big than I look , '' cry Chester breathlessly .
`` That be , sir -- I mean I 'm ever so much strong than I look .
I 'll work hard , sir , ever so hard -- and I 'll grow . ''
The fat , stubby man roar with laughter .
What be grim earnest to poor Chester be a joke to him .
`` No doubt you will , my boy , '' he say genially , `` but I 'm afraid you 'll hardly grow fast enough to suit u .
Boys be n't like pigweed , you know .
No , no , our boy must be a big , strap fellow of eighteen or nineteen .
He 'll have a deal of heavy lifting to do . ''
Chester go out of the store with a queer choke in his throat .
For one horrible moment he think he be go to cry -- he , Chester Stephens , who have run away from home to do splendid thing !
A nice end that would be to his fine dream !
He thrust his hand into his pocket and strode along the street , bite his lip fiercely .
He would not cry -- no , he would not !
And he would find work !
Chester do not cry , but neither , ala , do he find work .
He part with ten cent of his precious hoard for more cracker , and he spend the night again in the lumber yard .
Perhaps I 'll have good luck tomorrow , he think hopefully .
But it really seem a if there be to be no luck for Chester except bad luck .
Day after day pass and , although he tramp resolutely from street to street and visit every place that seem to offer any chance , he could get no employment .
In spite of his pluck , his heart begin to fail him .
At the end of a week Chester wake up among his lumber to a realization that he be at the end of his resource .
He have just five cent leave out of the four dollar that be to have be the key to his fortune .
He sit gloomily on the wall of his sleep apartment and munch the one solitary cracker he have leave .
It must carry him through the day unless he get work .
The five cent must be keep for some dire emergency .
He start uptown rather aimlessly .
In his week 's wandering he have come to know the city very well and no long felt confuse with it size and bustle .
He envy every busy boy he saw .
Back in Upton he have sometimes resent the fact that he be keep work continually and be seldom allow an hour off .
Now he be burden with spare time .
It certainly do not seem a if thing be fairly divide , he think .
And then he think no more just then , for one of the queer spell in his head come on .
He have experience them at interval during the last three day .
Something seem to break loose in his head and spin wildly round and round , while house and people and tree dance and wobble all about him .
Chester vaguely wonder if this could be what Aunt Harriet have be wont to call a `` judgement . ''
But then , he have do nothing very bad -- nothing that would warrant a judgement , he think .
It be surely no harm to run away from a place where you be treat so bad and where they do not seem to want you .
Chester felt bitter whenever he think of Aunt Harriet .
Presently he find himself in the market square of Montrose .
It be market day , and the place be throng with people from the surround country settlement .
Chester have hop that he might pick up a few cent , hold a horse or cow for somebody or carry a market basket , but no such chance offer itself .
He climb up on some bale of pressed hay in one corner and sit there moodily ; there be dejection in the very dangle of his leg over the bale .
Chester , you see , be discover what many a boy before him have discover -- that it be a good deal easy to sit down and make a fortune in dream than it be to go out into the world and make it .
Two men be talk to each other near him .
At first Chester give no heed to their conversation , but presently a sentence make him prick up his ear .
`` Yes , there 's a pretty fair crop out at Hopedale , '' one man be say , `` but whether it 's go to be get in in good shape be another matter .
It 's terrible hard to get any help .
Every spare man-jack far and wide have go West on them everlasting harvest excursion .
Salome Whitney at the Mount Hope Farm be in a predicament .
She 's get a hired man , but he ca n't harvest grain all by himself .
She spend the whole of yesterday drive around , try to get a couple of men or boy to help him , but I dunno if she get anyone or not . ''
The men move out of earshot at this juncture , but Chester get down from the bale with a determined look .
If worker be want in Hopedale , that be the place for him .
He have do a man 's work at harvest time in Upton the year before .
Lige Barton have say so himself .
Hope and courage return with a rush .
He accost the first man he meet and ask if he could tell him the way to Hopedale .
`` Reckon I can , sonny .
I live in the next district .
Want to go there ?
If you wait till evening , I can give you a lift part of the way .
It 's five mile out . ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' say Chester firmly , `` but I must go at once if you 'll kindly direct me .
It 's important . ''
`` Well , it 's a straight road .
That 's Albemarle Street down there -- follow it till it take you out to the country , and then keep straight on till you come to a church paint yellow and white .
Turn to your right , and over the hill be Hopedale .
But you 'd better wait for me .
You do n't look fit to walk five mile . ''
But Chester be off .
Walk five mile !
Pooh !
He could walk twenty with hope to lure him on .
Albemarle Street finally fray off into a real country road .
Chester be glad to find himself out in the country once more , with the great golden field bask on either side and the wooded hill beyond , purple with haze .
He have grow to hate the town with it cold , unheeding face .
It be good to breathe clear air again and feel the soft , springy soil of the ferny roadside under his tired little foot .
Long before the five mile be cover , Chester begin to wonder if he would hold out to the end of them .
He have to stop and rest frequently , when those queer dizzy spell come on .
His foot seem like lead .
But he keep doggedly on .
He would not give in now !
The white and yellow church be the most welcome sight that have ever meet his eye .
Over the hill he meet a man and inquire the way to Mount Hope Farm .
Fortunately , it be nearby .
At the gate Chester have to stop again to recover from his dizziness .
He like the look of the place , with it great , comfortable barn and quaint , roomy old farmhouse , all set down in a trim quadrangle of beech and orchard .
There be an appearance of peace and prosperity about it .
If only Miss Salome Whitney will hire me !
think Chester wistfully , a he creep up the slope .
I 'm afraid she 'll say I 'm too small .
Wisht I could stretch three inch all at once .
Wisht I be n't so dizzy .
Wisht -- What Chester 's third wish be will never be know , for just a he reach the kitchen door the bad dizzy spell of all come on .
Trees , barn , well-sweep , all whirl around him with the speed of wind .
He reel and fell , a limp , helpless little body , on Miss Salome Whitney 's broad , spotless sandstone doorstep .
* * * * * In the Mount Hope kitchen Miss Salome be at that moment deep in discussion with her `` help '' over the weighty question of how the damson be to be preserve .
Miss Salome want them boil ; Clemantiny Bosworth , the help , insist that they ought to be bake .
Clemantiny be always very positive .
She have `` boss '' Miss Salome for year , and both know that in the end the damson would be bake , but the argument have to be carry out for dignity 's sake .
`` They 're so sour when they 're bake , '' protest Miss Salome .
`` Well , you do n't want damson sweet , do you ? ''
retort Clemantiny scornfully .
`` That 's the beauty of damson -- their tartness .
And they keep ever so much good bake , Salome -- you know they do .
My grandmother always bake hers , and they would keep for three year . ''
Miss Salome know that when Clemantiny drag her grandmother into the question , it be time to surrender .
Beyond that , dignity degenerate into stubbornness .
It would be useless to say that she do not want to keep her damson for three year , and that she be content to eat them up and trust to Providence for the next year 's supply .
`` Well , well , bake them then , '' she say placidly .
`` I do n't suppose it make much difference one way or another .
Only , I insist -- what be that noise , Clemantiny ?
It sound like something fall against the porch door . ''
`` It 's that worthless dog of Martin 's , I suppose , '' say Clemantiny , grasp a broom handle with a grimness that bode ill for the dog .
`` Mussing up my clean doorstep with his dirty paw again .
I 'll fix him ! ''
Clemantiny sweep out through the porch and jerk open the door .
There be a moment 's silence .
Then Miss Salome hear her say , `` For the land 's sake !
Salome Whitney , come here . ''
What Miss Salome saw when she hurry out be a white-faced boy stretch on the doorstep at Clemantiny 's foot .
`` Is he dead ? ''
she gasp .
`` Dead ?
No , '' sniff Clemantiny .
`` He 's faint , that 's what he be .
Where on earth do he come from ?
He ai n't a Hopedale boy . ''
`` He must be carry right in , '' exclaim Miss Salome in distress .
`` Why , he may die there .
He must be very ill . ''
`` Looks more to me a if he have faint from sheer starvation , '' return Clemantiny brusquely a she pick him up in her lean , muscular arm .
`` Why , he 's skin and bone .
He ai n't hardly heavy than a baby .
Well , this be a mysterious piece of work .
Where 'll I put him ? ''
`` Lay him on the sofa , '' say Miss Salome as soon a she have recover from the horror into which Clemantiny 's starvation dictum have throw her .
A child starve to death on her doorstep !
`` What do you do for people in a faint , Clemantiny ? ''
`` Wet their face -- and hist up their foot -- and loosen their collar , '' say Clemantiny in a succession of jerk , do each thing a she mention it .
`` And hold ammonia to their nose .
Run for the ammonia , Salome .
Look , will you ?
Skin and bone ! ''
But Miss Salome have go for the ammonia .
There be a look on the boy 's thin , pallid face that tug painfully at her heart-strings .
When Chester come back to consciousness with the pungency of the ammonia reek through his head , he find himself lie on very soft pillow in a very big white sunny kitchen , where everything be scour to a brightness that dazzle you .
Bending over him be a tall , gaunt woman with a thin , determined face and snap black eye , and , stand beside her with a steam bowl in her hand , be the nice rosy lady who have give him the taffy on the boat !
When he open his eye , Miss Salome know him .
`` Why , it 's the little boy I saw on the boat ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Well , you 've come to ! ''
say Clemantiny , eye Chester severely .
`` And now perhaps you 'll explain what you mean by faint away on doorstep and scar people out of their sens . ''
Chester think that this must be the mistress of Mount Hope Farm , and hasten to propitiate her .
`` I 'm sorry , '' he falter feebly .
`` I do n't mean to -- I -- '' `` You 're not to do any talk until you 've have something to eat , '' snap Clemantiny inconsistently .
`` Here , open your mouth and take this broth .
Pretty doings , I say ! ''
Clemantiny speak as sharply a Aunt Harriet have ever do , but somehow or other Chester do not feel afraid of her and her black eye .
She sit down by his side and feed him from the bowl of hot broth with a deft gentleness oddly in contrast with her grim expression .
Chester think he have never in all his life taste anything so good a that broth .
The boy be really almost starve .
He drink every drop of it .
Clemantiny give a grunt of satisfaction a she hand the empty bowl and spoon to the silent , smile Miss Salome .
`` Now , who be you and what do you want ? ''
she say .
Chester have be expect this question , and while come along the Hopedale road he have think out an answer to it .
He begin now , speak the word slowly and gaspingly , a if recite a hastily learn lesson .
`` My name be Chester Benson .
I belong to Upton up the country .
My folk be dead and I come to Montrose to look for work , I 've be there a week and could n't get anything to do .
I hear a man say that you want men to help in the harvest , so I come out to see if you 'd hire me . ''
In spite of his weakness , Chester 's face turn very red before he get to the end of his speech .
He be new to deception .
To be sure , there be not , strictly speak , an untrue word in it .
As for his name , it be Chester Benson Stephens .
But for all that , Chester could not have felt or look more guilty if he have be tell an out-and-out falsehood at every breath .
`` Humph ! ''
say Clemantiny in a dissatisfied tone .
`` What on earth do you suppose a midget like you can do in the harvest field ?
And we do n't want any more help , anyway .
We 've get enough . ''
Chester grow sick with disappointment .
But at this moment Miss Salome speak up .
`` No , we have n't , Clemantiny .
We want another hand , and I 'll hire you , Chester -- that 's your name , be n't it ?
I 'll give you good wage , too . ''
`` Now , Salome ! ''
protest Clemantiny .
But Miss Salome only say , `` I 've make up my mind , Clemantiny . ''
Clemantiny know that when Miss Salome do make up her mind and announce it in that very quiet , very unmistakable tone , she be mistress of the situation and intend to remain so .
`` Oh , very well , '' she retort .
`` You 'll please yourself , Salome , of course .
I think it would be wise to wait until you find out a little more about him . ''
`` And have him starve on people 's doorstep in the meantime ? ''
question Miss Salome severely .
`` Well , '' return Clemantiny with the air of one who wash her hand of a doubtful proposition , `` do n't blame me if you repent of it . ''
By this time Chester have grasp the wonderful fact that his trouble be end -- for a while , at least .
He raise himself up on one arm and look gratefully at Miss Salome .
`` Thank you , '' he say .
`` I 'll work hard .
I 'm use to do a lot . ''
`` There , there ! ''
say Miss Salome , pat his shoulder gently .
`` Lie down and rest .
Dinner will be ready soon , and I guess you 'll be ready for it . ''
To Clemantiny she add in a low , gentle tone , `` There 's a look on his face that remind me of Johnny .
It come out so strong when he sit up just now that it make me feel like cry .
Do n't you notice it , Clemantiny ? ''
`` Ca n't say that I do , '' reply that energetic person , who be fly about the kitchen with a speed that make Chester 's head dizzy try to follow her with his eye .
`` All I can see be freckle and bone -- but if you 're satisfied , I be .
For law 's sake , do n't fluster me , Salome .
There 's a hundred and one thing to be do out of hand .
This frolic have clean dundered the whole forenoon 's work . ''
After dinner Chester decide that it be time to make himself useful .
`` Ca n't I go right to work now ? ''
he ask .
`` We do n't begin harvest till tomorrow , '' say Miss Salome .
`` You 'd better rest this afternoon . ''
`` Oh , I 'm all right now , '' insist Chester .
`` I feel fine .
Please give me something to do . ''
`` You can go out and cut me some wood for my afternoon 's baking , '' say Clemantiny .
`` And see you cut it short enough .
Any other boy that 's tried always get it about two inch too long . ''
When he have go out , she say scornfully to Miss Salome , `` Well , what do you expect that size to accomplish in a harvest field , Salome Whitney ? ''
`` Not very much , perhaps , '' say Miss Salome mildly .
`` But what could I do ?
You would n't have me turn the child adrift on the world again , would you , Clemantiny ? ''
Clemantiny do not choose to answer this appeal .
She rattle her dish noisily into the dishpan .
`` Well , where be you go to put him to sleep ? ''
she demand .
`` The hand you 've get will fill the kitchen chamber .
There 's only the spare room leave .
You 'll hardly put him there , I suppose ?
Your philanthropy will hardly lead you as far a that . ''
When Clemantiny employ big word and sarcasm at the same time , the effect be tremendous .
But Miss Salome do n't wilt .
`` What make you so prejudice against him ? ''
she ask curiously .
`` I 'm not prejudice against him .
But that story about himself do n't ring true .
I work in Upton year ago , and there be n't any Bensons there then .
There 's more behind that he have n't tell .
I 'd find out what it be before I take him into my house , that 's all .
But I 'm not prejudice . ''
`` Well , well , '' say Miss Salome soothingly , `` we must do the best we can for him .
It 's a sort of duty .
And a for a room for him -- why , I 'll put him in Johnny 's . ''
Clemantiny open her mouth and shut it again .
She understand that it would be a waste of breath to say anything more .
If Miss Salome have make up her mind to put this freckle , determined-looking waif , drop on her doorstep from heaven knew where , into Johnny 's room , that be an end of the matter .
`` But I 'll not be surprise at anything after this , '' she mutter a she carry her dish into the pantry .
`` First a skinny little urchin go and faint on her doorstep .
Then she hire him and put him in Johnny 's room .
Johnny 's room !
Salome Whitney , what do you mean ? ''
Perhaps Miss Salome hardly know what she mean .
But somehow her heart go out warmly to this boy .
In spite of Clemantiny 's sniff , she hold to the opinion that he look like Johnny .
Johnny be a little nephew of hers .
She have take him to bring up when his parent die , and she have love him very dearly .
He have die four year ago , and since that time the little front room over the front porch have never be occupy .
It be just a Johnny have leave it .
Beyond keep it scrupulously clean , Miss Salome never allow it to be disturb .
And now a somewhat ragged lad from nowhere be to be put into it !
No wonder Clemantiny shake her head when Miss Salome go up to air it .
* * * * * Even Clemantiny have to admit that Chester be willing to work .
He split wood until she call him to stop .
Then he carry in the wood-box full , and pile it so neatly that even the grim handmaiden be pleased .
After that , she send him to the garden to pick the early bean .
In the evening he milk three cow and do all the chore , fall into the way of the place with a deft adaptability that go far to soften Clemantiny 's heart .
`` He 's be taught to work somewhere , '' she admit grudgingly , `` and he 's real polite and respectful .
But he look too cute by half .
And his name be n't Benson any more than mine .
When I call him ` Chester Benson ' out there in the cow-yard , he star at me fer half a minute ` sif I 'd call him Nebuchadnezzar . ''
When bedtime come , Miss Salome take Chester up to a room whose whiteness and daintiness quite take away the breath of a lad who have be use to sleep in garret or hire men 's kitchen chamber all his life .
Later on Miss Salome come in to see if he be comfortable , and stand , with her candle in her hand , look down very kindly at the thin , shrewd little face on the pillow .
`` I hope you 'll sleep real well here , Chester , '' she say .
`` I have a little boy once who use to sleep here .
You -- you look like him .
Good night . ''
She bend over him and kiss his forehead .
Chester have never be kiss by anyone before , so far a he could remember .
Something come up in his throat that felt about as big a a pumpkin .
At the same moment he wish he could have tell Miss Salome the whole truth about himself .
I might tell her in the morning , he think , a he watch her figure pass out of the little porch chamber .
But on second thought he decide that this would never do .
He felt sure she would disapprove of his run away , and would probably insist upon his go straight back to Upton or , at least , inform Aunt Harriet of his whereabouts .
No , he could not tell her .
Clemantiny be an early riser , but when she come into the kitchen the next morning the fire be already make and Chester be out in the yard with three of the five cow milk .
`` Humph ! ''
say Clemantiny amiably .
`` New broom sweep clean . ''
But she give him cream with his porridge that morning .
Generally , all Miss Salome 's hired hand get from Clemantiny be skim milk .
Miss Salome 's regular hire man live in a little house down in the hollow .
He soon turn up , and the other two men she have hire for harvest also arrive .
Martin , the man , look Chester over quizzically .
`` What do you think you can do , sonny ? ''
`` Anything , '' say Chester sturdily .
`` I 'm used to work . ''
`` He 's right , '' whisper Clemantiny aside .
`` He 's smart a a steel trap .
But just you keep an eye on him all the same , Martin . ''
Chester soon prove his mettle in the harvest field .
In the brisk three week that follow , even Clemantiny have to admit that he earn every cent of his wage .
His active foot be untiring and his wiry arm could pitch and stock with the best .
When the day 's work be end , he bring in wood and water for Clemantiny , help milk the cow , gather the egg , and make on his own responsibility a round of barn and outhouse to make sure that everything be snug and tight for the night .
`` Freckles-and-Bones have be well train somewhere , '' say Clemantiny again .
It be hardly fair to put the bone in now , for Chester be grow plump and hearty .
He have never be so happy in his life .
Upton drudgery and that dreadful week in Montrose seem like a bad dream .
Here , in the golden meadow of Mount Hope Farm , he work with a right good will .
The men like him , and he soon become a favourite with them .
Even Clemantiny relent somewhat .
To be sure , she continue very grim , and still throw her word at him a if they be so many missile warrant to strike home .
But Chester soon learn that Clemantiny 's bark be bad than her bite .
She be really very good to him and feed him lavishly .
But she declare that this be only to put some flesh on him .
`` It offend me to see bone stick through anybody 's skin like that .
We be n't use to such object at Mount Hope Farm , thank goodness .
Yes , you may smile , Salome .
I like him well enough , and I 'll admit that he know how to make himself useful , but I do n't trust him any more than ever I do .
He 's mighty close about his past life .
You ca n't get any more out of him than juice out of a post .
I 've try , and I know . ''
But it be Miss Salome who have win Chester 's whole heart .
He have never love anybody in his hard little life before .
He love her with an almost dog-like devotion .
He forget that he be work to earn money -- and make his fortune .
He work to please Miss Salome .
She be good and kind and gentle to him , and his starved heart thaw and expand in the sunshine of her atmosphere .
She go to the little porch room every night to kiss him good night .
Chester would have be bitterly disappointed if she have fail to go .
She be greatly shock to find out that he have never say his prayer before go to bed .
She insist on teach him the simple little one she have use herself when a child .
When Chester find that it would please her , he say it every night .
There be nothing he would not have do for Miss Salome .
She talk a good deal to him about Johnny and she give him the jack-knife that Johnny have own .
`` It belong to a good , manly little boy once , '' she say , `` and now I hope it belong to another such . ''
`` I ai n't very good , '' say Chester repentantly , `` but I 'll try to be , Miss Salome -- honest , I will . ''
One day he hear Miss Salome speaking of someone who have run away from home .
`` A wicked , ungrateful boy , '' she call him .
Chester blush until his freckle be drown out in a sea of red , and Clemantiny saw it , of course .
When do anything ever escape those merciless black eye of Clemantiny 's ?
`` Do you think it 's always wrong for a fellow to run away , Miss Salome ? ''
he falter .
`` It ca n't ever be right , '' say Miss Salome decidedly .
`` But if he be n't treat well -- and be jaw at -- and not let go to school ? ''
plead Chester .
Clemantiny give Miss Salome a look a of one who would say , You 're bat-blind if you ca n't read between the line of that ; but Miss Salome be placidly unconscious .
She be not really think of the subject at all , and do not guess that Chester mean anything more than generality .
`` Not even then , '' she say firmly .
`` Nothing can justify a boy for run away -- especially a Jarvis Colemen do -- never even leave a word behind him to say where he 'd go .
His aunt think he 'd fall into the river . ''
`` Do n't suppose she would have grieve much if he have , '' say Clemantiny sarcastically , all the while watch Chester , until he felt a if she be bore into his very soul and read all his past life .
When the harvest season draw to a close , dismay crept into the soul of our hero .
Where would he go now ?
He hat to think of leave Mount Hope Farm and Miss Salome .
He would have be content to stay there and work as hard a he have ever work at Upton , merely for the roof over his head and the food he eat .
The making of a fortune seem a small thing compare to the privilege of be near Miss Salome .
`` But I suppose I must just up and go , '' he mutter dolefully .
One day Miss Salome have a conference with Clemantiny .
At the end of it the latter say , `` Do a you please , '' in the tone she might have use to a spoil child .
`` But if you 'd take my advice -- which you wo n't and never do -- you 'd write to somebody in Upton and make inquiry about him first .
What he say be all very well and he stick to it marvellous , and there 's no trip him up .
But there 's something behind , Salome Whitney -- mark my word , there 's something behind . ''
`` He look so like Johnny , '' say Miss Salome wistfully .
`` And I suppose you think that cover a multitude of sin , '' say Clemantiny contemptuously .
* * * * * On the day when the last load of rustle golden sheaf be carry into the big barn and stow away in the dusty loft , Miss Salome call Chester into the kitchen .
Chester 's heart sank a he obey the summons .
His time be up , and now he be to be pay his wage and send away .
To be sure , Martin have tell him that morning that a man in East Hopedale want a boy for a spell , and that he , Martin , would see that he get the place if he want it .
But that do not reconcile him to leave Mount Hope Farm .
Miss Salome be sit in her favourite sunny corner of the kitchen and Clemantiny be fly around with double briskness .
The latter 's thin lip be tightly set and disapproval be writ large in every flutter of her calico skirt .
`` Chester , '' say Miss Salome kindly , `` your time be up today . ''
Chester nod .
For a moment he felt a he have felt when he leave the provision store in Montrose .
But he would not let Clemantiny see him cry .
Somehow , he would not have mind Miss Salome .
`` What be you think of do now ? ''
Miss Salome go on .
`` There 's a man at East Hopedale want a boy , '' say Chester , `` and Martin say he think I 'll suit . ''
`` That be Jonas Smallman , '' say Miss Salome thoughtfully .
`` He have the name of be a hard master .
It be n't right of me to say so , perhaps .
I really do n't know much about him .
But would n't you rather stay here with me for the winter , Chester ? ''
`` Ma'am ?
Miss Salome ? ''
stammer Chester .
He hear Clemantiny give a snort behind him and mutter , `` Clean infatuate -- clean infatuated , '' without in the least knowing what she mean .
`` We really need a chore boy all the year round , '' say Miss Salome .
`` Martin have all he can do with the heavy work .
And there be the apple to be pick .
If you care to stay , you shall have your board and clothes for do the odd job , and you can go to school all winter .
In the spring we will see what need be do then . ''
If he would care to stay !
Chester could have laugh aloud .
His eye be shin with joy a he reply , `` Oh , Miss Salome , I 'll be so glad to stay !
I -- I -- do n't want to go away .
I 'll try to do everything you want me to do .
I 'll work ever so hard . ''
`` Humph ! ''
This , of course , be from Clemantiny , a she set a pan of apple on the stove with an emphatic thud .
`` Nobody ever doubt your willingness to work .
Pity everything else about you be n't a satisfactory . ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
say Miss Salome rebukingly .
She put her arm about Chester and draw him to her .
`` Then it be all settle , Chester .
You be my boy now , and of course I shall expect you to be a good boy . ''
If ever a boy be determine to be good , that boy be Chester .
That day be the beginning of a new life for him .
He begin to go to the Hopedale school the next week .
Miss Salome give him all Johnny 's old school book and take an eager interest in his study .
Chester ought to have be very happy , and at first he be ; but a the bright , mellow day of autumn pass by , a shadow come over his happiness .
He could not help think that he have really deceive Miss Salome , and be deceive her still -- Miss Salome , who have such confidence in him .
He be not what he pretend to be .
And a for his run away , he felt sure that Miss Salome would view that with horror .
As the time pass by and he learn more and more what a high standard of honour and truth she have , he felt more and more ashamed of himself .
When she look at him with her clear , trustful , blue eye , Chester felt as guilty a if he have systematically deceive her with intent to do harm .
He begin to wish that he have the courage to tell her the whole truth about himself .
Moreover , he begin to think that perhaps he have not do right , after all , in run away from Aunt Harriet .
In Miss Salome 's code nothing could be right that be underhanded , and Chester be very swiftly come to look at thing through Miss Salome 's eye .
He felt sure that Johnny would never have act a he have , and if Chester now have one dear ambition on earth , it be to be as good and manly a fellow a Johnny must have be .
But he could never be that as long a he keep the truth about himself from Miss Salome .
`` That boy have get something on his mind , '' say the terrible Clemantiny , who , Chester felt convince , could see through a stone wall .
`` Nonsense !
What could he have on his mind ? ''
say Miss Salome .
But she say it a little anxiously .
She , too , have notice Chester 's absent way and abstracted face .
`` Goodness me , I do n't know !
I do n't suppose he have rob a bank or murder anybody .
But he be worry over something , as plain a plain . ''
`` He be get on very well at school , '' say Miss Salome .
`` His teacher say so , and he be very eager to learn .
I do n't know what can be trouble him . ''
She be fat not to know for a fortnight longer .
During that time Chester fight out his struggle with himself , and conquer .
He must tell Miss Salome , he decide , with a long sigh .
He know that it would mean go back to Upton and Aunt Harriet and the old , hard life , but he would not sail under false colour any long .
* * * * * Chester go into the kitchen one afternoon when he come home from school , with his lip set and his jaw even square than usual .
Miss Salome be make some of her famous taffy , and Clemantiny be spin yarn on the big wheel .
`` Miss Salome , '' say Chester desperately , `` if you 're not too busy , there be something I 'd like to tell you . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask Miss Salome good-humouredly , turn to him with her spoon poise in midair over her granite saucepan .
`` It 's about myself .
I -- I -- oh , Miss Salome , I do n't tell you the truth about myself .
I 've get to tell it now .
My name be n't Benson -- exactly -- and I run away from home . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
say Miss Salome mildly .
She drop her spoon , handle and all , into the taffy and never notice it .
`` Dear me , Chester ! ''
`` I know it , '' say Clemantiny triumphantly .
`` I know it -- and I always say it .
Run away , do you ? ''
`` Yes 'm .
My name be Chester Benson Stephens , and I live at Upton with Aunt Harriet Elwell .
But she ai n't any relation to me , really .
She 's only father 's stepsister .
She -- she -- be n't kind to me and she would n't let me go to school -- so I run away . ''
`` But , dear me , Chester , do n't you know that be very wrong ? ''
say Miss Salome in bewilderment .
`` No 'm -- I do n't know it then .
I 've be think lately that maybe it be .
I 'm -- I 'm real sorry . ''
`` What do you say your real name be ? ''
demand Clemantiny .
`` Stephens , ma'am . ''
`` And your mother 's name before she be marry ? ''
`` Mary Morrow , '' say Chester , wonder what upon earth Clemantiny meant .
Clemantiny turn to Miss Salome with an air of surrender a dearly cherish opinion .
`` Well , ma'am , I guess you must be right about his look like Johnny .
I must say I never could see the resemblance , but it may well be there , for he -- that very fellow there -- and Johnny be first cousin .
Their mother be sister ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
exclaim Miss Salome .
`` You may well say ` Clemantiny . '
Such a coincidence !
It do n't make you and him any relation , of course -- the cousinship be on the mother 's side .
But it 's there .
Mary Morrow be bear and bring up in Hopedale .
She go to Upton when I do , and marry Oliver Stephens there .
Why , I know his father as well a I know you . ''
`` This be wonderful , '' say Miss Salome .
Then she add sorrowfully , `` But it do n't make your run away right , Chester . ''
`` Tell u all about it , '' demand Clemantiny , sit down on the wood-box .
`` Sit down , boy , sit down -- do n't stand there look a if you be on trial for your life .
Tell u all about it . ''
Thus adjure , Chester sit down and tell them all about it -- his moonlight flitting and his adventure in Montrose .
Miss Salome exclaim with horror over the fact of his sleeping in a pile of lumber for seven night , but Clemantiny listen in silence , never take her eye from the boy 's pale face .
When Chester finish , she nod .
`` We 've get it all now .
There 's nothing more behind , Salome .
It would have be good for you to have tell a straight a story at first , young man . ''
Chester know that , but , have no reply to make , make none .
Miss Salome look at him wistfully .
`` But , with it all , you do n't do right to run away , Chester , '' she say firmly .
`` I dare say your aunt be severe with you -- but two wrong never make a right , you know . ''
`` No 'm , '' say Chester .
`` You must go back to your aunt , '' continue Miss Salome sadly .
Chester nod .
He know this , but he could not trust himself to speak .
Then do Clemantiny arise in her righteous indignation .
`` Well , I never heard of such nonsense , Salome Whitney !
What on earth do you want to send him back for ?
I know Harriet Elwell year ago , and if she 's still what she be then , it ai n't much wonder Chester run away from her .
I 'd say ` run , ' too .
Go back , indeed !
You keep him right here , a you should , and let Harriet Elwell look somewhere else for somebody to scold ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
expostulate Miss Salome .
`` Oh , I must and will speak my mind , Salome .
There 's no one else to take Chester 's part , it seem .
You have as much claim on him a Harriet Elwell have .
She ai n't any real relation to him any more than you be . ''
Miss Salome look troubled .
Perhaps there be something in Clemantiny 's argument .
And she hat to think of see Chester go .
He look more like Johnny than ever , a he stand there with his flushed face and wistful eye .
`` Chester , '' she say gravely , `` I leave it to you to decide .
If you think you ought to go back to your aunt , well and good .
If not , you shall stay here . ''
This be the hard yet .
Chester wish she have not leave the decision to him .
It be like cut off his own hand .
But he speak up manfully .
`` I -- I think I ought to go back , Miss Salome , and I want to pay back the money , too . ''
`` I think so , too , Chester , although I 'm sorry a sorry can be .
I 'll go back to Upton with you .
We 'll start tomorrow .
If , when we get there , your aunt be willing to let you stay with me , you can come back . ''
`` There 's a big chance of that ! ''
say Clemantiny sourly .
`` A woman 's likely to give up a boy like Chester -- a good , steady worker and a respectful and oblige a there be between this and sunset -- very likely , be n't she !
Well , this taffy be all burnt to the saucepan and clean ruin -- but what 's the odds !
All I hope , Salome Whitney , be that the next time you adopt a boy and let him twine himself ` round a person 's heart , you 'll make sure first that you be go to stick to it .
I do n't like have my affection tear up by the root . ''
Clemantiny seize the saucepan and disappear with it into the pantry amid a whirl of pungent smoke .
Mount Hope Farm be a strangely dismal place that night .
Miss Salome sigh heavily and often a she make her preparation for the morrow 's journey .
Clemantiny stalk about with her grim face grimmer than ever .
As for Chester , when he go to bed that night in the little porch chamber , he cry heartily into his pillow .
He do n't care for pride any longer ; he just cry and do n't even pretend he be n't cry when Miss Salome come in to sit by him a little while and talk to him .
That talk comfort Chester .
He realize that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
Chester never know it , but after he have fall asleep , with the tear still glisten on his brown cheek , Clemantiny tiptoe silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
It be late and an aroma of boil sugar hung about her .
She have sit up long after Miss Salome be abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
`` Poor , dear child ! ''
she say , softly touch one of his crisp curl .
`` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his go back .
She do n't know what she 's send him to , or she would n't .
He do n't say much against his aunt , and Salome think she be only just a little bit cranky .
But I could guess . ''
Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester start .
They be to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barn with a full heart .
When he climb into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hand .
`` Good-by , Chester , '' she say .
`` And remember , you 've always get a friend in me , anyhow . ''
Then Clemantiny go back into the kitchen and cry -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sit down and cry .
It be an ideal day for travel -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor Miss Salome be in a mood for enjoyment .
Back over Chester 's runaway route they go , and reach Belltown on the boat that even .
They stay in Belltown overnight and in the morning take the train to Roxbury Station .
Here Miss Salome hire a team from the storekeeper and drive out to Upton .
Chester felt his heart sink a they drive into the Elwell yard .
How well he know it !
Miss Salome tie her hired nag to the gatepost and take Chester by the hand .
They go to the door and knock .
It be open with a jerk and Mrs. Elwell stand before them .
She have probably see them from the window , for she utter no word of surprise at see Chester again .
Indeed , she say nothing at all , but only stand rigidly before them .
Dear me , what a disagreeable-looking woman !
think Miss Salome .
But she say courteously , `` Are you Mrs. Elwell ? ''
`` I be , '' say that lady forbiddingly .
`` I 've bring your nephew home , '' continue Miss Salome , lay her hand encouragingly on Chester 's shrink shoulder .
`` I have have him hire for some time on my farm at Hopedale , but I do n't know until yesterday that he have run away from you .
When he tell me about it , I think he ought to come straight back and return your four dollar , and so do he .
So I have bring him . ''
`` You might have save yourself the trouble then ! ''
cried Mrs. Elwell shrilly .
Her black eye flash with anger .
`` I 'm do with him and do n't want the money .
Run away when there be work to do , and think he can come back now that it 's all do and loaf all winter , do he ?
He shall never enter my house again . ''
`` That he shall not ! ''
cry Miss Salome , at last find her tongue .
Her gentle nature be grievously stir by the heartlessness show in the face and voice of Mrs. Elwell .
`` That he shall not ! ''
she cry again .
`` But he shall not want for a home as long a I have one to give him .
Come , Chester , we 'll go home . ''
`` I wish you well of him , '' Mrs. Elwell say sarcastically .
Miss Salome already repent her angry retort .
She be afraid she have be undignified , but she wish for a moment that Clemantiny be there .
Wicked a she fear it be , Miss Salome think she could have enjoy a tilt between her ancient handmaid and Mrs. Elwell .
`` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Elwell , if I have use any intemperate expression , '' she say with great dignity .
`` You provoke me more than be become by your remark .
I wish you good morning . ''
Mrs. Elwell slam the door shut .
With her cheek even more than usually rosy , Miss Salome lead Chester down to the gate , untie her horse and drive out of the yard .
Not until they reach the main road do she trust herself to speak to the daze lad beside her .
`` What a disagreeable woman ! ''
she ejaculate at last .
`` I do n't wonder you run away , Chester -- I do n't , indeed !
Though , mind you , I do n't think it be right , for all that .
But I 'm glad than word can say that she would n't take you back .
You be mine now , and you will stay mine .
I want you to call me Aunt Salome after this .
Get up , horse !
If we can catch that train at Roxbury , we 'll be home by night yet . ''
Chester be too happy to speak .
He have never felt so glad and grateful in his life before .
They get home that night just a the sun be set redly behind the great maple on the western hill .
As they drive into the yard , Clemantiny 's face appear , gaze at them over the high board fence of the cow-yard .
Chester wave his hand at her gleefully .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
say Clemantiny .
She set down her pail and come out to the lane on a run .
She catch Chester a he spring from the wagon and give him a hearty hug .
`` I 'm glad clean down to my boot sol to see you back again , '' she say .
`` He 's back for good , '' say Miss Salome .
`` Chester , you 'd better go in and study up your lesson for tomorrow . ''
The Strike at Putney The church at Putney be one that gladden the heart of all the minister in the presbytery whenever they think about it .
It be such a satisfactory church .
While other church here and there be continually give trouble in one way or another , the Putneyites be never guilty of brew up internal or presbyterial strife .
The Exeter church people be always quarrel among themselves and carry their quarrel to the court of the church .
The very name of Exeter give the member of presbytery the cold creep .
But the Putney church people never quarrel .
Danbridge church be in a chronic state of ministerlessness .
No minister ever stay in Danbridge longer than he could help .
The people be too critical , and they be also note heresy hunter .
Good minister fight shy of Danbridge , and poor one meet with a chill welcome .
The harassed presbytery , wear out with `` supplying , '' be dispose to think that the millennium would come if ever the Danbridgians get a minister whom they like .
At Putney they have have the same minister for fifteen year and hop and expect to have him for fifteen more .
They look with horror-stricken eye on the Danbridge theological coquetry .
Bloom Valley church be over head and heel in debt and have no visible prospect of ever get out .
The moderator say under his breath that they do over-much praying and too little hoeing .
He do not believe in faith without work .
Tarrytown Road keep it head above water but never have a cent to spare for mission or the scheme of the church .
In bright and shin contradistinction to these the Putney church have always pay it way and give liberally to all department of church work .
If other spring of supply run dry the Putneyites enthusiastically get up a `` tea '' or a `` social , '' and so raise the money .
Naturally the `` heft '' of this work fell on the woman , but they do not mind -- in very truth , they enjoy it .
The Putney woman have the reputation of be `` great church worker , '' and they plume themselves on it , put on air at convention among the less energetic woman of the other church .
They be especially strong on society .
There be the Church Aid Society , the Girls ' Flower Band , and the Sewing Circle .
There be a Mission Band and a Helping Hand among the child .
And finally there be the Women 's Foreign Mission Auxiliary , out of which the whole trouble grow which convulse the church at Putney for a brief time and furnish a stand joke in presbyterial circle for year afterwards .
To this day minister and elder tell the story of the Putney church strike with sparkling eye and subdue chuckle .
It never grow old or stale .
But the Putney elder be an exception .
They never laugh at it .
They never refer to it .
It be not in the wicked , unregenerate heart of man to make a jest of his own bitter defeat .
It be in June that the secretary of the Putney W.F.M . Auxiliary write to a note return missionary who be tour the country , ask her to give an address on mission work before their society .
Mrs. Cotterell write back say that her brief time be so take up already that she find it hard to make any further engagement , but she could not refuse the Putney people who be so well and favourably know in mission circle for their perennial interest and liberality .
So , although she could not come on the date request , she would , if acceptable , come the following Sunday .
This suit the Putney Auxiliary very well .
On the Sunday refer to there be to be no evening service in the church owe to Mr. Sinclair 's absence .
They therefore appoint the missionary meeting for that night , and make arrangement to hold it in the church itself , a the classroom be too small for the expected audience .
Then the thunderbolt descend on the W.F.M.A . of Putney from a clear sky .
The elder of the church rise up to a man and declare that no woman should occupy the pulpit of the Putney church .
It be in direct contravention to the teaching of St. Paul .
To make matter bad , Mr. Sinclair declare himself on the elder ' side .
He say that he could not conscientiously give his consent to a woman occupy his pulpit , even when that woman be Mrs. Cotterell and her subject foreign mission .
The member of the Auxiliary be aghast .
They call a meeting extraordinary in the classroom and , discard all form and ceremony in their wrath , talk their indignation out .
Out of door the world bask in June sunshine and preen itself in blossom .
The bird sang and chirp in the lichened maple that cup the little church in , and peace be over all the Putney valley .
Inside the classroom disgust woman buzz like angry bee .
`` What on earth be we to do ? ''
sigh the secretary plaintively .
Mary Kilburn be always plaintive .
She sit on the step of the platform , be too work up in her mind to sit in her chair at the desk , and her thin , fade little face be twist with anxiety .
`` All the arrangement be make and Mrs. Cotterell be come on the tenth .
How can we tell her that the men wo n't let her speak ? ''
`` There be never anything like this in Putney church before , '' groan Mrs. Elder Knox .
`` It be Andrew McKittrick put them up to it .
I always say that man would make trouble here yet , ever since he move to Putney from Danbridge .
I 've talk and argue with Thomas until I 'm dumb , but he be as set a a rock . ''
`` I do n't see what business the men have to interfere with u anyhow , '' say her daughter Lucy , who be sit on one of the window-sills .
`` We do n't meddle with them , I 'm sure .
As if Mrs. Cotterell would contaminate the pulpit ! ''
`` One would think we be still in the dark age , '' say Frances Spenslow sharply .
Frances be the Putney schoolteacher .
Her father be one of the recalcitrant elder and Frances felt it bitterly -- all the more that she have try to argue with him and have be sat upon a a `` child who could n't understand . ''
`` I 'm more surprised at Mr. Sinclair than at the elder , '' say Mrs. Abner Keech , fan herself vigorously .
`` Elders be subject to queer spell periodically .
They think they assert their authority that way .
But Mr. Sinclair have always seem so liberal and broad-minded . ''
`` You never can tell what crotchet an old bachelor will take into his head , '' say Alethea Craig bitingly .
The others nod agreement .
Mr. Sinclair 's inveterate celibacy be a stand grievance with the Putney woman .
`` If he have a wife who could be our president this would never have happen , I warrant you , '' say Mrs. King sagely .
`` But what be we go to do , ladies ? ''
say Mrs. Robbins briskly .
Mrs. Robbins be the president .
She be a big , bustle woman with clear blue eye and crisp , incisive way .
Hitherto she have hold her peace .
`` They must talk themselves out before they can get down to business , '' she have reflect sagely .
But she think the time have now come to speak .
`` You know , '' she go on , `` we can talk and rage against the men all day if we like .
They be not try to prevent u .
But that will do no good .
Here 's Mrs. Cotterell invite , and all the neighbouring auxiliary notify -- and the men wo n't let u have the church .
The point be , how be we go to get out of the scrape ? ''
A helpless silence descend upon the classroom .
The eye of every woman present turn to Myra Wilson .
Everyone could talk , but when it come to action they have a fashion of turn to Myra .
She have a reputation for cleverness and originality .
She never talk much .
So far today she have not say a word .
She be sit on the sill of the window across from Lucy Knox .
She swing her hat on her knee , and loose , moist ring of dark hair curl around her dark , alert face .
There be a sparkle in her grey eye that bode ill to the men who be peaceably pursue their avocation , rashly indifferent to what the woman might be say in the maple-shaded classroom .
`` Have you any suggestion to make , Miss Wilson ? ''
say Mrs. Robbins , with a return to her official voice and manner .
Myra put her long , slender index finger to her chin .
`` I think , '' she say decidedly , `` that we must strike . ''
* * * * * When Elder Knox go in to tea that even he glance somewhat apprehensively at his wife .
They have have an altercation before she go to the meeting , and he suppose she have talk herself into another rage while there .
But Mrs. Knox be placid and smile .
She have make his favourite soda biscuit for him and inquire amiably after his progress in hoe turnip in the southeast meadow .
She make , however , no reference to the Auxiliary meeting , and when the biscuit and the maple syrup and two cup of matchless tea have nerve the elder up , his curiosity get the good of his prudence -- for even elder be human and curiosity know no gender -- and he ask what they have do at the meeting .
`` We poor men have be shake in our shoe , '' he say facetiously .
`` Were you ? ''
Mrs. Knox 's voice be calm and faintly amuse .
`` Well , you do n't need to .
We talk the matter over very quietly and come to the conclusion that the session know best and that woman have n't any right to interfere in church business at all . ''
Lucy Knox turn her head away to hide a smile .
The elder beam .
He be a peace-loving man and dislike `` ruction '' of any sort and domestic one in particular .
Since the decision of the session Mrs. Knox have make his life a burden to him .
He do not understand her sudden change of base , but he accept it very thankfully .
`` That 's right -- that 's right , '' he say heartily .
`` I 'm glad to hear you come out so sensible , Maria .
I be afraid you 'd work yourselves up at that meeting and let Myra Wilson or Alethea Craig put you up to some foolishness or other .
Well , I guess I 'll jog down to the Corner this evening and order that barrel of pastry flour you want . ''
`` Oh , you need n't , '' say Mrs. Knox indifferently .
`` We wo n't be need it now . ''
`` Not need it !
But I think you say you have to have some to bake for the social week after next . ''
`` There be n't go to be any social . ''
`` Not any social ? ''
Elder Knox star perplexedly at his wife .
A month previously the Putney church have be recarpeted , and they still owe fifty dollar for it .
This , the woman declare , they would speedily pay off by a big cake and ice-cream social in the hall .
Mrs. Knox have be one of the foremost promoter of the enterprise .
`` Not any social ? ''
repeat the elder again .
`` Then how be the money for the carpet to be get ?
And why be n't there go to be a social ? ''
`` The men can get the money somehow , I suppose , '' say Mrs. Knox .
`` As for the social , why , of course , if woman be n't good enough to speak in church they be not good enough to work for it either .
Lucy , dear , will you pass me the cooky ? ''
`` Lucy dear '' pass the cooky and then rise abruptly and leave the table .
Her father 's face be too much for her .
`` What confound nonsense be this ? ''
demand the elder explosively .
Mrs. Knox open her mellow brown eye widely , a if in amazement at her husband 's tone .
`` I do n't understand you , '' she say .
`` Our position be perfectly logical . ''
She have borrow that phrase from Myra Wilson , and it floor the elder .
He get up , seize his hat , and strode from the room .
That night , at Jacob Wherrison 's store at the Corner , the Putney men talk over the new development .
The social be certainly off -- for a time , anyway .
`` Best let 'em alone , I say , '' say Wherrison .
`` They 're mad at u now and do this to pay u out .
But they 'll cool down later on and we 'll have the social all right . ''
`` But if they do n't , '' say Andrew McKittrick gloomily , `` who be go to pay for that carpet ? ''
This be an unpleasant question .
The others shirk it .
`` I be always oppose to this action of the session , '' say Alec Craig .
`` It would n't have hurt to have let the woman speak .
'T be n't a if it be a regular sermon . ''
`` The session know best , '' say Andrew sharply .
`` And the minister -- you 're not go to set your opinion up against his , be you , Craig ? ''
`` Did n't know they teach such reverence for minister in Danbridge , '' retort Craig with a laugh .
`` Best let 'em alone , a Wherrison say , '' say Abner Keech .
`` Do n't see what else we can do , '' say John Wilson shortly .
* * * * * On Sunday morning the men be conscious of a bare , desert appearance in the church .
Mr. Sinclair perceive it himself .
After some inward wonder he conclude that it be because there be no flower anywhere .
The table before the pulpit be bare .
On the organ a vase hold a sorry , fade bouquet leave over from the previous week .
The floor be ' unswept .
Dust lay thickly on the pulpit Bible , the choir chair , and the pew back .
`` This church look disgraceful , '' say John Robbins in an angry undertone to his daughter Polly , who be president of the Flower Band .
`` What in the name of common sense be the good of your Flower Banders if you ca n't keep the place look decent ? ''
`` There be no Flower Band now , Father , '' whisper Polly in turn .
`` We 've disband .
Women have n't any business to meddle in church matter .
You know the session say so . ''
It be well for Polly that she be too big to have her ear box .
Even so , it might not have save her if they have be anywhere else than in church .
Meanwhile the men who be sit in the choir -- three bass and two tenor -- be begin to dimly suspect that there be something amiss here too .
Where be the soprano and the alto ?
Myra Wilson and Alethea Craig and several other member of the choir be sit down in their pew with perfectly unconscious face .
Myra be look out of the window into the tangled sunlight and shadow of the great maple .
Alethea Craig be read her Bible .
Presently Frances Spenslow come in .
Frances be organist , but today , instead of walk up to the platform , she slip demurely into her father 's pew at one side of the pulpit .
Eben Craig , who be the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidget uneasily .
He try to catch Frances 's eye , but she be absorb in read the mission report she have find in the rack , and Eben be finally force to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister be wait for the doxology .
Are n't you go to take the organ ? ''
Frances look up calmly .
Her clear , placid voice be audible not only to those in the nearby pew , but to the minister .
`` No , Mr. Craig .
You know if a woman be n't fit to speak in the church she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''
Eben Craig look exceedingly foolish .
He tiptoe gingerly back to his place .
The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rise suddenly and give out the opening hymn .
Nobody who hear the singing in Putney church that day ever forget it .
Untrained bass and tenor , unrelieved by a single female voice , be not inspire .
There be no announcement of society meeting for the forthcoming week .
On the way home from church that day irate husband and father scold , argue , or plead , accord to their several disposition .
One and all meet with the same calm statement that if a noble , self-sacrificing woman like Mrs. Cotterell be not good enough to speak in the Putney church , ordinary , everyday woman could not be fit to take any part whatever in it work .
Sunday School that afternoon be a harrowing failure .
Out of all the corp of teacher only one be a man , and he alone be at his post .
In the Christian Endeavour meeting on Tuesday night the feminine element sit dumb and unresponsive .
The Putney woman never do thing by half .
The men hold out for two week .
At the end of that time they `` happen '' to meet at the manse and talk the matter over with the harassed minister .
Elder Knox say gloomily , `` It 's this way .
Nothing can move them woman .
I know , for I 've try .
My authority have be set at naught in my own household .
And I 'm laugh at if I show my face in any of the other settlement . ''
The Sunday School superintendent say the Sunday School be go to wrack and ruin , also the Christian Endeavour .
The condition of the church for dust be something scandalous , and stranger be make a mockery of the singing .
And the carpet have to be pay for .
He suppose they would have to let the woman have their own way .
The next Sunday evening after service Mr. Sinclair arise hesitatingly .
His face be flush , and Alethea Craig always declare that he look `` just plain everyday cross . ''
He announce briefly that the session after due deliberation have conclude that Mrs. Cotterell might occupy the pulpit on the evening appoint for her address .
The woman all over the church smile broadly .
Frances Spenslow get up and go to the organ stool .
The singing in the last hymn be good and hearty .
Going down the step after dismissal Mrs. Elder Knox catch the secretary of the Church Aid by the arm .
`` I guess , '' she whisper anxiously , `` you 'd better call a special meeting of the Aids at my house tomorrow afternoon .
If we 're to get that social over before hay begin we 've get to do some smart scurrying . ''
The strike in the Putney church be over .
The Unhappiness of Miss Farquhar Frances Farquhar be a beauty and be sometimes call a society butterfly by people who do n't know very much about it .
Her father be wealthy and her mother come of an extremely blue-blooded family .
Frances have be out for three year , and be a social favourite .
Consequently , it may be wonder why she be unhappy .
In plain English , Frances Farquhar have be jilt -- just a commonplace , everyday jilting !
She have be engage to Paul Holcomb ; he be a very handsome fellow , somewhat too evidently aware of the fact , and Frances be very deeply in love with him -- or think herself so , which at the time come to pretty much the same thing .
Everybody in her set knew of her engagement , and all her girl friend envy her , for Holcomb be a matrimonial catch .
Then the crash come .
Nobody outside the family know exactly what do happen , but everybody know that the Holcomb-Farquhar match be off , and everybody have a different story to account for it .
The simple truth be that Holcomb be fickle and have fall in love with another girl .
There be nothing of the man about him , and it do not matter to his sublimely selfish caddishness whether he break Frances Farquhar 's heart or not .
He get his freedom and he marry Maud Carroll in six month ' time .
The Farquhars , especially Ned , who be Frances 's old brother and seldom concern himself about her except when the family honour be involve , be furious at the whole affair .
Mr. Farquhar storm , and Ned swore , and Della lament her vanished role of bridemaid .
As for Mrs. Farquhar , she cry and say it would ruin Frances 's future prospect .
The girl herself take no part in the family indignation meeting .
But she believe that her heart be break .
Her love and her pride have suffer equally , and the effect seem disastrous .
After a while the Farquhars calm down and devoted themselves to the task of cheer Frances up .
This they do not accomplish .
She get through the rest of the season somehow and show a proud front to the world , not even flinch when Holcomb himself cross her path .
To be sure , she be pale and thin , and have about as much animation a a mask , but the same might be say of a score of other girl who be not suspect of have break heart .
When the summer come Frances assert herself .
The Farquhars go to Green Harbour every summer .
But this time Frances say she would not go , and stick to it .
The whole family take turn coax her and have nothing to show for their pain .
`` I 'm go up to Windy Meadows to stay with Aunt Eleanor while you be at the Harbour , '' she declare .
`` She have invite me often enough . ''
Ned whistle .
`` Jolly time you 'll have of it , Sis .
Windy Meadows be about as festive a a funeral .
And Aunt Eleanor be n't lively , to put it in the mild possible way . ''
`` I do n't care if she be n't .
I want to get somewhere where people wo n't look at me and talk about -- that , '' say Frances , look ready to cry .
Ned go out and swore at Holcomb again , and then advise his mother to humour Frances .
Accordingly , Frances go to Windy Meadows .
Windy Meadows be , a Ned have say , the reverse of lively .
It be a pretty country place , with a sort of fag-end by way of a little fishing village , huddle on a wind-swept bit of beach , locally know a the `` Cove . ''
Aunt Eleanor be one of those delightful people , so few and far between in this world , who have perfectly master the art of mind their own business exclusively .
She leave Frances in peace .
She know that her niece have have `` some love trouble or other , '' and have n't get over it rightly .
`` It 's always best to let those thing take their course , '' say this philosophical lady to her `` help '' and confidant , Margaret Ann Peabody .
`` She 'll get over it in time -- though she do n't think so now , bless you . ''
For the first fortnight Frances revel in a luxury of unhindered sorrow .
She could cry all night -- and all day too , if she wish -- without have to stop because people might notice that her eye be red .
She could mope in her room all she like .
And there be no men who demand civility .
When the fortnight be over , Aunt Eleanor take crafty counsel with herself .
The letting-alone policy be all very well , but it would not do to have the girl die on her hand .
Frances be get paler and thinner every day -- and she be spoil her eyelash by cry .
`` I wish , '' say Aunt Eleanor one morning at breakfast , while Frances pretend to eat , `` that I could go and take Corona Sherwood out for a drive today .
I promise her last week that I would , but I 've never have time yet .
And today be bake and churn day .
It 's a shame .
Poor Corona ! ''
`` Who be she ? ''
ask Frances , try to realize that there be actually someone in the world besides herself who be to be pity .
`` She be our minister 's sister .
She have be ill with rheumatic fever .
She be well now , but do n't seem to get strong very fast .
She ought to go out more , but she be n't able to walk .
I really must try and get around tomorrow .
She keep house for her brother at the manse .
He be n't marry , you know . ''
Frances do n't know , nor do she in the least degree care .
But even the luxury of unlimited grief pall , and Frances be begin to feel this vaguely .
She offer to go and take Miss Sherwood out driving .
`` I 've never see her , '' she say , `` but I suppose that do n't matter .
I can drive Grey Tom in the phaeton , if you like . ''
It be just what Aunt Eleanor intend , and she saw Frances drive off that afternoon with a great deal of satisfaction .
`` Give my love to Corona , '' she tell her , `` and say for me that she be n't to go mess about among those shore people until she 's perfectly well .
The manse be the fourth house after you turn the third corner . ''
Frances keep count of the corner and the house and find the manse .
Corona Sherwood herself come to the door .
Frances have be expect an elderly personage with spectacle and grey crimp ; she be surprise to find that the minister 's sister be a girl of about her own age and possess of a distinct worldly prettiness .
Corona be dark , with a different darkness from that of Frances , who have ivory outline and blue-black hair , while Corona be dusky and piquant .
Her eye brighten with delight when Frances tell her errand .
`` How good of you and Miss Eleanor !
I be not strong enough to walk far yet -- or do anything useful , in fact , and Elliott so seldom have time to take me out . ''
`` Where shall we go ? ''
ask Frances when they start .
`` I do n't know much about this locality . ''
`` Can we drive to the Cove first ?
I want to see poor little Jacky Hart .
He have be so sick -- '' `` Aunt Eleanor positively forbid that , '' say Frances dubiously .
`` Will it be safe to disobey her ? ''
Corona laugh .
`` Miss Eleanor blame my poor shore people for make me sick at first , but it be really not that at all .
And I want to see Jacky Hart so much .
He have be ill for some time with some disease of the spine and he be worse lately .
I 'm sure Miss Eleanor wo n't mind my call just to see him . ''
Frances turn Grey Tom down the shore road that run to the Cove and past it to silvery , wind-swept sand , rim sea expanse crystal clear .
Jacky Hart 's home prove to be a tiny little place overflow with child .
Mrs. Hart be a pale , tired-looking woman with the patient , farseeing eye so often find among the woman who watch sea and shore every day and night of their life for those who sometimes never return .
She speak of Jacky with the apathy of hopelessness .
The doctor say he would not last much longer .
She tell all her trouble unreservedly to Corona in her monotonous voice .
Her `` man '' be drink again and the mackerel catch be poor .
When Mrs. Hart ask Corona to go in and see Jacky , Frances go too .
The sick boy , a child with a delicate , waste face and large , bright eye , lay in a tiny bedroom off the kitchen .
The air be hot and heavy .
Mrs. Hart stand at the foot of the bed with her tragic face .
`` We have to set up night with him now , '' she say .
`` It 's awful hard on me and my man .
The neighbour be kind enough and come sometimes , but most of them have enough to do .
His medicine have to be give every half hour .
I 've be up for three night run now .
Jabez be off to the tavern for two .
I 'm just about play out . ''
She suddenly break down and begin to cry , or rather whimper , in a heart-broken way .
Corona look troubled .
`` I wish I could come tonight , Mrs. Hart , but I 'm afraid I 'm really not strong enough yet . ''
`` I do n't know much about sickness , '' speak up Frances firmly , `` but if to sit by the child and give him his medicine regularly be all that be necessary , I be sure I can do that .
I 'll come and sit up with Jacky tonight if you care to have me . ''
Afterwards , when she and Corona be drive away , she wonder a good deal at herself .
But Corona be so evidently pleased with her offer , and take it all so much a a matter of course , that Frances have not the courage to display her wonder .
They have their drive through the great green bowl of the country valley , brim over with sunshine , and afterwards Corona make Frances go home with her to tea .
Rev . Elliott Sherwood have get back from his pastoral visitation , and be train his sweet pea in the way they should go against the garden fence .
He be in his shirt sleeve and wear a big straw hat , and seem in nowise disconcert thereby .
Corona introduce him , and he take Grey Tom away and put him in the barn .
Then he go back to his sweet pea .
He have have his tea , he say , so that Frances do not see him again until she go home .
She think he be a very indifferent young man , and not half so nice a his sister .
But she go and sit up with Jacky Hart that night , get to the Cove at dark , when the sea be a shimmer of fairy tint and the boat be come in from the fishing ground .
Jacky greet her with a wonderful smile , and later on she find herself watch alone by his bed .
The tiny lamp on the table burn dim , and outside , on the rock , there be loud laughing and talk until a late hour .
Afterwards a silence fell , through which the lap of the wave on the sand and the far-off moan of the Atlantic surge come sonorously .
Jacky be restless and wakeful , but do not suffer , and like to talk .
Frances listen to him with a new-born power of sympathy , which she think she must have catch from Corona .
He tell her all the tragedy of his short life , and how bad he felt , about Dad 's take to drink and Mammy 's have to work so hard .
The pitiful little sentence make Frances 's heart ache .
The maternal instinct of the true woman awoke in her .
She take a sudden liking to the child .
He be a spiritual little creature , and his suffering have make him old and wise .
Once in the night he tell Frances that he think the angel must look like her .
`` You be so sweet pretty , '' he say gravely .
`` I never saw anyone so pretty , not even Miss C'rona .
You look like a picture I once saw on Mr. Sherwood 's table when I be up at the manse one day ` fore I get so bad I could n't walk .
It be a woman with a li'l baby in her arm and a kind of rim round her head .
I would like something most awful much . ''
`` What be it , dear ? ''
say Frances gently .
`` If I can get or do it for you , I will . ''
`` You could , '' he say wistfully , `` but maybe you wo n't want to .
But I do wish you 'd come here just once every day and sit here five minute and let me look at you -- just that .
Will it be too much trouble ? ''
Frances stoop and kiss him .
`` I will come every day , Jacky , '' she say ; and a look of ineffable content come over the thin little face .
He put up his hand and touch her cheek .
`` I know you be good -- as good a Miss C'rona , and she be an angel .
I love you . ''
When morning come Frances go home .
It be rain , and the sea be hide in mist .
As she walk along the wet road , Elliott Sherwood come splash along in a little two-wheeled gig and pick her up .
He wear a raincoat and a small cap , and do not look at all like a minister -- or , at least , like Frances 's conception of one .
Not that she know much about minister .
Her own minister at home -- that be to say , the minister of the fashionable uptown church which she attend -- be a portly , dignify old man with silvery hair and gold-rimmed glass , who preach scholarly , culture sermon and be a far remove from Frances 's personal life a a star in the Milky Way .
But a minister who wear rubber coat and little cap and drive about in a two-wheeled gig , very much mud-bespattered , and who talk about the shore people a if they be household intimate of his , be absolutely new to Frances .
She could not help seeing , however , that the crisp brown hair under the edge of the unclerical-looking cap curl around a remarkably well-shaped forehead , beneath which flash out a pair of very fine dark-grey eye ; he have likewise a good mouth , which be resolute and look a if it might be stubborn on occasion ; and , although he be not exactly handsome , Frances decide that she like his face .
He tuck the wet , slippery rubber apron of his conveyance about her and then proceed to ask question .
Jacky Hart 's case have to be report on , and then Mr. Sherwood take out a notebook and look over it entry intently .
`` Do you want any more work of that sort to do ? ''
he ask her abruptly .
Frances felt faintly amuse .
He talk to her a he might have do to Corona , and seem utterly oblivious of the fact that her profile be classic and her eye delicious .
His indifference pique Frances a little in spite of her murdered heart .
Well , if there be anything she could do she might as well do it , she tell him briefly , and he , with equal brevity , give her direction for find some old lady who live on the Elm Creek road and to whom Corona have read tract .
`` Tracts be a mild dissipation of Aunt Clorinda 's , '' he say .
`` She fairly revel in them .
She be half blind and have miss Corona very much . ''
There be other matter also -- a dozen or so of factory girl who need to be look after and a family of ragged child to be clothe .
Frances , in some dismay , find herself pledge to help in all direction , and then way and mean have to be discuss .
The long , wet road , sprinkle with house , from whose window people be peer to see `` what girl the minister be drive , '' seem very short .
Frances do not know it , but Elliott Sherwood drive a full mile out of his way that morning to take her home , and risk be late for a very important appointment -- from which it may be infer that he be not quite so blind to the beautiful a he have seem .
Frances go through the rain that afternoon and read tract to Aunt Clorinda .
She be so dreadfully tired that night that she forget to cry , and slept well and soundly .
In the morning she go to church for the first time since come to Windy Meadows .
It do not seem civil not to go to hear a man preach when she have go slum with his sister and expect to assist him with his difficulty over factory girl .
She be surprise at Elliott Sherwood 's sermon , and mentally wondered why such a man have be allow to remain for four year in a little country pulpit .
Later on Aunt Eleanor tell her it be for his health .
`` He be not strong when he leave college , so he come here .
But he be as well a ever now , and I expect he will soon be gobble up by some of your city church .
He preach in Castle Street church last winter , and I believe they be delight with him . ''
This be all of a month later .
During that time Frances think that she must have be re-created , so far be her old self leave behind .
She seldom have an idle moment ; when she have , she spend it with Corona .
The two girl have become close friend , love each other with the intensity of exceptional and somewhat exclusive nature .
Corona grow strong slowly , and could do little for her brother 's people , but Frances be an excellent proxy , and Elliott Sherwood keep her employed .
Incidentally , Frances have come to know the young minister , with his lofty ideal and earnest effort , very well .
He have get into a ridiculous habit of go to her -- her , Frances Farquhar !
-- for advice in many perplexity .
Frances have nurse Jacky Hart and talk temperance to his father and read tract to Aunt Clorinda and start a reading circle among the factory girl and fit out all the little Jarboes with dress and coax the shore child to go to school and patch up a feud between two ` longshore family and do a hundred other thing of a similar nature .
Aunt Eleanor say nothing , a be her wise wont , but she talk it over with Margaret Ann Peabody , and agree with that model domestic when she say : `` Work 'll keep folk out of trouble and help 'em out of it when they be in .
Just as long a that girl brood over her own worry and do n't think of anyone but herself she be miserable .
But as soon a she find other folk be unhappy , too , and try to help 'em out a bit , she help herself most of all .
She 's get fat and rosy , and it be plain to be see that the minister think there be n't the like of her on this planet . ''
One night Frances tell Corona all about Holcomb .
Elliott Sherwood be away , and Frances have go up to stay all night with Corona at the manse .
They be sit in the moonlit gloom of Corona 's room , and Frances felt confidential .
She have expect to feel badly and cry a little while she tell it .
But she do not , and before she be half through , it do not seem a if it be worth tell after all .
Corona be deeply sympathetic .
She do not say a great deal , but what she do say put Frances on good term with herself .
`` Oh , I shall get over it , '' the latter declare finally .
`` Once I think I never would -- but the truth be , I 'm get over it now .
I 'm very glad -- but I 'm horribly ashamed , too , to find myself so fickle . ''
`` I do n't think you be fickle , Frances , '' say Corona gravely , `` because I do n't think you ever really love that man at all .
You only imagine you do .
And he be not worthy of you .
You be so good , dear ; those shore people just worship you .
Elliott say you can do anything you like with them . ''
Frances laugh and say she be not at all good .
Yet she be pleased .
Later on , when she be brush her hair before the mirror and smile absently at her reflection , Corona say : `` Frances , what be it like to be as pretty a you be ? ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Frances by way of answer .
`` It be not nonsense at all .
You must know you be very lovely , Frances .
Elliott say you be the most beautiful girl he have ever see . ''
For a girl who have tell herself a dozen time that she would never care again for masculine admiration , Frances experience a very odd thrill of delight on hearing that the minister of Windy Meadows think her beautiful .
She know he admire her intellect and have immense respect for what he call her `` genius for influence people , '' but she have really believe all along that , if Elliott Sherwood have be ask , he could not have tell whether she be a whit well look than Kitty Martin of the Cove , who teach a class in Sunday school and have round rosy cheek and a snub nose .
The summer go very quickly .
One day Jacky Hart die -- drift out with the ebb tide , hold Frances 's hand .
She have love the patient , sweet-souled little creature and miss him greatly .
When the time to go home come Frances felt dull .
She hat to leave Windy Meadows and Corona and her dear shore people and Aunt Eleanor and -- and -- well , Margaret Ann Peabody .
Elliott Sherwood come up the night before she go away .
When Margaret Ann show him reverentially in , Frances be sit in a halo of sunset light , and the pale , golden chrysanthemum in her hair shone like star in the blue-black coil .
Elliott Sherwood have be absent from Windy Meadows for several day .
There be a subdued jubilance in his manner .
`` You think I have come to say good-bye , but I have n't , '' he tell her .
`` I shall see you again very soon , I hope .
I have just receive a call to Castle Street church , and it be my intention to accept .
So Corona and I will be in town this winter . ''
Frances try to tell him how glad she be , but only stammer .
Elliott Sherwood come close up to her a she stand by the window in the fading light , and say -- But on second thought I shall not record what he say -- or what she say either .
Some thing should be leave to the imagination .
Why Mr. Cropper Changed His Mind `` Well , Miss Maxwell , how do you get along today ? ''
ask Mr. Baxter affably , when the new teacher come to the table .
She be a slight , dark girl , rather plain-looking , but with a smart , energetic way .
Mr. Baxter approve of her ; he `` like her style , '' a he would have say .
The summer term have just open in the Maitland district .
Esther Maxwell be a stranger , but she be a capable girl , and have no doubt of her own ability to get and keep the school in good working order .
She smile brightly at Mr. Baxter .
`` Very well for a beginning .
The child seem bright and teachable and not hard to control . ''
Mr. Baxter nod .
`` There be no bad child in the school except the Cropper boy -- and they can be good enough if they like .
Reckon they be n't there today ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , Miss Maxwell , I think it only fair to tell you that you may have trouble with those boy when they do come .
Forewarned be forearm , you know .
Mr. Cropper be oppose to our hire you .
Not , of course , that he have any personal objection to you , but he be set against female teacher , and when a Cropper be set there be nothing on earth can change him .
He say female teacher ca n't keep order .
He 's start in with a spite at you on general principle , and the boy know it .
They know he 'll back them up in secret , no matter what they do , just to prove his opinion .
Cropper be sly and slippery , and it be hard to corner him . ''
`` Are the boy big ? ''
query Esther anxiously .
`` Yes .
Thirteen and fourteen and big for their age .
You ca n't whip 'em -- that be the trouble .
A man might , but they 'd twist you around their finger .
You 'll have your hand full , I 'm afraid .
But maybe they 'll behave all right after all . ''
Mr. Baxter privately have no hope that they would , but Esther hop for the best .
She could not believe that Mr. Cropper would carry his prejudice into a personal application .
This conviction be strengthen when he overtake her walk from school the next day and drive her home .
He be a big , handsome man with a very suave , polite manner .
He ask interestedly about her school and her work , hop she be get on well , and say he have two young rascal of his own to send soon .
Esther felt relieve .
She think that Mr. Baxter have exaggerate matter a little .
`` That plum tree of Mrs. Charley 's be load with fruit again this year , '' remark Mr. Baxter at the tea table that even .
`` I come past it today on my way ` cross lot home from the wood .
There will be bushel of plum on it . ''
`` I do n't suppose poor Mrs. Charley will get one of them any more than she ever have , '' say Mrs. Baxter indignantly .
`` It 's a burning shame , that 's what it be !
I just wish she could catch the Croppers once . ''
`` You have n't any proof that it be really them , Mary , '' object her husband , `` and you should n't make reckless accusation before folk . ''
`` I know very well it be them , '' retort Mrs. Baxter , `` and so do you , Adoniram .
And Mrs. Charley know it too , although she ca n't prove it -- more 's the pity !
I do n't say Isaac Cropper steal those plum with his own hand .
But he know who do -- and the plum go into Mehitable Cropper 's preserving kettle ; there 's nothing surer . ''
`` You see , Miss Maxwell , it 's this way , '' explain Mr. Baxter , turn to Esther .
`` Mrs. Charley Cropper 's husband be Isaac 's brother .
They never get on well together , and when Charley die there be a tremendous fuss about the property .
Isaac act mean and scandalous clear through , and public opinion have be down on him ever since .
But Mrs. Charley be a pretty smart woman , and he do n't get the good of her in everything .
There be a strip of disputed land between the two farm , and she secure it .
There 's a big plum tree grow on it close to the line fence .
It 's the fine one in Maitland .
But Mrs. Charley never get a plum from it . ''
`` But what become of them ? ''
ask Esther .
`` They disappear , '' say Mr. Baxter , with a significant nod .
`` When the plum be anything like ripe Mrs. Charley discover some day that there be n't one leave on the tree .
She have never be able to get a scrap of proof a to who take them , or she 'd make it hot for them .
But nobody in Maitland have any doubt in his own mind that Isaac Cropper know where those plum go . ''
`` I do n't think Mr. Cropper would steal , '' protest Esther .
`` Well , he do n't consider it steal , you know .
He claim the land and say the plum be his .
I do n't doubt that he be quite clear in his own mind that they be .
And he do hate Mrs. Charley .
I 'd give considerable to see the old sinner fairly catch , but he be too deep . ''
`` I think Mr. Baxter be too hard on Mr. Cropper , '' say Esther to herself later on .
`` He have probably some private prejudice against him . ''
* * * * * But a month later she have change her opinion .
During that time the Cropper boy have come to school .
At first Esther have be incline to like them .
They be handsome lad , with the same smooth way that characterize their father , and seem bright and intelligent .
For a few day all go well , and Esther felt decidedly relieve .
But before long a subtle spirit of insubordination begin to make itself felt in the school .
Esther find herself powerless to cope with it .
The Croppers never openly defy her , but they do precisely a they please .
The other pupil think themselves at liberty to follow this example , and in a month 's time poor Esther have completely lose control of her little kingdom .
Some complaint be hear among the ratepayer and even Mr. Baxter look dubious .
She know that unless she could regain her authority she would be request to hand in her resignation , but she be baffle by the elusive system of defiance which the Cropper boy have organize .
One day she resolve to go to Mr. Cropper himself and appeal to his sense of justice , if he have any .
It have be an especially hard day in school .
When she have be absent at the noon hour all the desk in the schoolroom have be pile in a pyramid on the floor , book and slate interchange , and various other prank play .
When question every pupil deny have do or help to do it .
Alfred and Bob Cropper look her squarely in the eye and declare their innocence in their usual gentlemanly fashion , yet Esther felt sure that they be the guilty one .
She also know what exaggerate account of the affair would be take home to Maitland tea table , and she felt like sit down to cry .
But she do not .
Instead she set her mouth firmly , help the child restore the room to order , and after school go up to Isaac Cropper 's house .
That gentleman himself come in from the harvest field look as courtly a usual , even in his rough working clothes .
He shake hand heartily , tell her he be glad to see her , and begin talk about the weather .
Esther be not to be turn from her object thus , although she felt her courage ebb away from her a it always do in the presence of the Cropper imperviousness .
`` I have come up to see you about Alfred and Robert , Mr. Cropper , '' she say .
`` They be not behave well in school . ''
`` Indeed ! ''
Mr. Cropper 's voice express bland surprise .
`` That be strange .
As a rule I do not think Alfred and Robert have be troublesome to their teacher .
What have they be do now ? ''
`` They refuse to obey my order , '' say Esther faintly .
`` Ah , well , Miss Maxwell , perhaps you will pardon my say that a teacher should be able to enforce her order .
My boy be high-spirited fellow and need a strong , firm hand to restrain them .
I have always say I consider it advisable to employ a male teacher in Maitland school .
We should have good order .
Not that I disapprove of you personally -- far from it .
I should be glad to see you succeed .
But I have hear many complaint regard the order in school at present . ''
`` I have no trouble until your boy come , '' retort Esther , lose her temper a little , `` and I believe that if you be willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them . ''
`` Well , you see , '' say Mr. Cropper easily , `` when I send my boy to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of do the work she have be hire to do . ''
`` Then you refuse to help me ? ''
say Esther in a trembling voice .
`` Why , my dear young lady , what can I do ?
Boys soon know when they can disobey a teacher with impunity .
No doubt you will be able to secure a school easy to control and will do good work .
But here , a I have already say , we need a firm hand at the helm .
But you be not go yet , Miss Maxwell ?
You need some refreshment after your long walk .
Mrs. Cropper will bring you in something . ''
`` No , thank you , '' say poor Esther .
She felt that she must get away at once or she would burst into heartsick tear under those steely , bland blue eye .
When she get home she shut herself up in her room and cry .
There be nothing for her to do but resign , she think dismally .
On the following Saturday Esther go for an afternoon walk , carry her kodak with her .
It be a brilliantly fine autumn day , and wood and field be bask in a mellow haze .
Esther go across lot to Mrs. Charley Cropper 's house , intend to make a call .
But the house be lock up and evidently desert , so she ramble past it to the back field .
Passing through a grove of maple she come out among leafy young sapling on the other side .
Just beyond her , with it laden bough hang over the line fence , be the famous plum tree .
Esther look at it for a moment .
Then an odd smile gleam over her face and she lift her kodak .
Monday evening Esther call on Mr. Cropper again .
After the preliminary remark in which he indulge , she say , with seem irrelevance , that Saturday have be a fine day .
`` There be an excellent light for snapshot , '' she go on coolly .
`` I go out with my kodak and be lucky enough to get a good negative .
I have bring you up a proof .
I think you would be interested in it . ''
She rise and place the proof on the table before Mr. Cropper .
The plum tree come out clearly .
Bob and Alf Cropper be up among the bough pick the plum .
On the ground beneath them stand their father with a basket of fruit in his hand .
Mr. Cropper look at the proof and from it to Esther .
His eye have lose their unconcerned glitter , but his voice be defiant .
`` The plum be mine by right , '' he say .
`` Perhaps , '' say Esther calmly , `` but there be some who do not think so .
Mrs. Charley , for instance -- she would like to see this proof , I think . ''
`` Do n't show it to her , '' cry Mr. Cropper hastily .
`` I tell you , Miss Maxwell , the plum be mine .
But I be tire of fight over them and I have decide before this that I 'd let her have them after this .
It 's only a trifle , anyhow .
And about that little matter we be discuss the other night , Miss Maxwell .
I have be think it over , and I admit I be somewhat unreasonable .
I 'll talk to Alfred and Robert and see what I can do . ''
`` Very well , '' say Esther quietly .
`` The matter of the plum be n't my business and I do n't wish to be involve in your family feud , especially a you say that you mean to allow Mrs. Charley to enjoy her own in future .
As for the school , we will hope that matter will improve . ''
`` You 'll leave the proof with me , wo n't you ? ''
say Mr. Cropper eagerly .
`` Oh , certainly , '' say Esther , smile .
`` I have the negative still , you know . ''
From that time out the Cropper boy be model of good behaviour and the other turbulent spirit , have lose their leader , be soon quell .
Complaint die away , and at the end of the term Esther be re-engaged .
`` You seem to have win old Cropper over to your side entirely , '' Mr. Baxter tell her that night .
`` He say at the meeting today that you be the best teacher we have ever have and move to raise your salary .
I never know Isaac Cropper to change his opinion so handsomely . ''
Esther smile .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___The_Jungle_Book.txt.out
Mowgli 's Brothers Now Rann the Kite bring home the night That Mang the Bat set free -- The herd be shut in byre and hut For loose till dawn be we .
This be the hour of pride and power , Talon and tush and claw .
Oh , hear the call !
-- Good hunt all That keep the Jungle Law !
Night-Song in the Jungle It be seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hill when Father Wolf wake up from his day 's rest , scratch himself , yawn , and spread out his paw one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling in their tip .
Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose drop across her four tumbling , squeal cub , and the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all live .
`` Augrh ! ''
say Father Wolf .
`` It be time to hunt again . ''
He be go to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail cross the threshold and whine : `` Good luck go with you , O Chief of the Wolves .
And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble child that they may never forget the hungry in this world . ''
It be the jackal -- Tabaqui , the Dish-licker -- and the wolf of India despise Tabaqui because he run about make mischief , and tell tale , and eat rag and piece of leather from the village rubbish-heaps .
But they be afraid of him too , because Tabaqui , more than anyone else in the jungle , be apt to go mad , and then he forget that he be ever afraid of anyone , and run through the forest biting everything in his way .
Even the tiger run and hide when little Tabaqui go mad , for madness be the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature .
We call it hydrophobia , but they call it dewanee -- the madness -- and run .
`` Enter , then , and look , '' say Father Wolf stiffly , `` but there be no food here . ''
`` For a wolf , no , '' say Tabaqui , `` but for so mean a person a myself a dry bone be a good feast .
Who be we , the Gidur-log -LSB- the jackal people -RSB- , to pick and choose ? ''
He scuttle to the back of the cave , where he find the bone of a buck with some meat on it , and sit crack the end merrily .
`` All thanks for this good meal , '' he say , lick his lip .
`` How beautiful be the noble child !
How large be their eye !
And so young too !
Indeed , indeed , I might have remember that the child of king be men from the beginning . ''
Now , Tabaqui know as well a anyone else that there be nothing so unlucky a to compliment child to their face .
It please him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable .
Tabaqui sit still , rejoice in the mischief that he have make , and then he say spitefully : `` Shere Khan , the Big One , have shift his hunt ground .
He will hunt among these hill for the next moon , so he have tell me . ''
Shere Khan be the tiger who live near the Waingunga River , twenty mile away .
`` He have no right ! ''
Father Wolf begin angrily -- `` By the Law of the Jungle he have no right to change his quarter without due warning .
He will frighten every head of game within ten mile , and I -- I have to kill for two , these day . ''
`` His mother do not call him Lungri -LSB- the Lame One -RSB- for nothing , '' say Mother Wolf quietly .
`` He have be lame in one foot from his birth .
That be why he have only kill cattle .
Now the villager of the Waingunga be angry with him , and he have come here to make our villager angry .
They will scour the jungle for him when he be far away , and we and our child must run when the grass be set alight .
Indeed , we be very grateful to Shere Khan ! ''
`` Shall I tell him of your gratitude ? ''
say Tabaqui .
`` Out ! ''
snap Father Wolf .
`` Out and hunt with thy master .
Thou hast do harm enough for one night . ''
`` I go , '' say Tabaqui quietly .
`` Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thicket .
I might have save myself the message . ''
Father Wolf listen , and below in the valley that run down to a little river he hear the dry , angry , snarly , singsong whine of a tiger who have catch nothing and do not care if all the jungle know it .
`` The fool ! ''
say Father Wolf .
`` To begin a night 's work with that noise !
Does he think that our buck be like his fat Waingunga bullock ? ''
`` H'sh .
It be neither bullock nor buck he hunt to-night , '' say Mother Wolf .
`` It be Man . ''
The whine have change to a sort of hum purr that seem to come from every quarter of the compass .
It be the noise that bewilder woodcutter and gypsy sleep in the open , and make them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger .
`` Man ! ''
say Father Wolf , show all his white teeth .
`` Faugh !
Are there not enough beetle and frog in the tank that he must eat Man , and on our ground too ! ''
The Law of the Jungle , which never order anything without a reason , forbids every beast to eat Man except when he be kill to show his child how to kill , and then he must hunt outside the hunt ground of his pack or tribe .
The real reason for this be that man-killing mean , sooner or later , the arrival of white men on elephant , with gun , and hundred of brown men with gong and rocket and torch .
Then everybody in the jungle suffers .
The reason the beast give among themselves be that Man be the weak and most defenseless of all living thing , and it be unsportsmanlike to touch him .
They say too -- and it be true -- that man-eater become mangy , and lose their teeth .
The purr grow loud , and end in the full-throated `` Aaarh ! ''
of the tiger 's charge .
Then there be a howl -- an untigerish howl -- from Shere Khan .
`` He have miss , '' say Mother Wolf .
`` What be it ? ''
Father Wolf run out a few pace and heard Shere Khan muttering and mumble savagely a he tumble about in the scrub .
`` The fool have have no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter 's campfire , and have burn his foot , '' say Father Wolf with a grunt .
`` Tabaqui be with him . ''
`` Something be come uphill , '' say Mother Wolf , twitch one ear .
`` Get ready . ''
The bush rustle a little in the thicket , and Father Wolf drop with his haunch under him , ready for his leap .
Then , if you have be watch , you would have see the most wonderful thing in the world -- the wolf check in mid-spring .
He make his bound before he saw what it be he be jump at , and then he try to stop himself .
The result be that he shoot up straight into the air for four or five foot , land almost where he leave ground .
`` Man ! ''
he snap .
`` A man 's cub .
Look ! ''
Directly in front of him , hold on by a low branch , stand a naked brown baby who could just walk -- a soft and a dimple a little atom a ever come to a wolf 's cave at night .
He look up into Father Wolf 's face , and laugh .
`` Is that a man 's cub ? ''
say Mother Wolf .
`` I have never see one .
Bring it here . ''
A Wolf accustom to move his own cub can , if necessary , mouth an egg without break it , and though Father Wolf 's jaw close right on the child 's back not a tooth even scratch the skin a he lay it down among the cub .
`` How little !
How naked , and -- how bold ! ''
say Mother Wolf softly .
The baby be push his way between the cub to get close to the warm hide .
`` Ahai !
He be take his meal with the others .
And so this be a man 's cub .
Now , be there ever a wolf that could boast of a man 's cub among her child ? ''
`` I have hear now and again of such a thing , but never in our Pack or in my time , '' say Father Wolf .
`` He be altogether without hair , and I could kill him with a touch of my foot .
But see , he look up and be not afraid . ''
The moonlight be block out of the mouth of the cave , for Shere Khan 's great square head and shoulder be thrust into the entrance .
Tabaqui , behind him , be squeak : `` My lord , my lord , it go in here ! ''
`` Shere Khan do u great honor , '' say Father Wolf , but his eye be very angry .
`` What do Shere Khan need ? ''
`` My quarry .
A man 's cub go this way , '' say Shere Khan .
`` Its parent have run off .
Give it to me . ''
Shere Khan have jump at a woodcutter 's campfire , a Father Wolf have say , and be furious from the pain of his burned foot .
But Father Wolf know that the mouth of the cave be too narrow for a tiger to come in by .
Even where he be , Shere Khan 's shoulder and forepaw be cramp for want of room , a a man 's would be if he try to fight in a barrel .
`` The Wolves be a free people , '' say Father Wolf .
`` They take order from the Head of the Pack , and not from any striped cattle-killer .
The man 's cub be ours -- to kill if we choose . ''
`` Ye choose and ye do not choose !
What talk be this of choose ?
By the bull that I kill , be I to stand nose into your dog 's den for my fair due ?
It be I , Shere Khan , who speak ! ''
The tiger 's roar fill the cave with thunder .
Mother Wolf shake herself clear of the cub and sprang forward , her eyes , like two green moon in the darkness , face the blaze eye of Shere Khan .
`` And it be I , Raksha -LSB- The Demon -RSB- , who answer .
The man 's cub be mine , Lungri -- mine to me !
He shall not be kill .
He shall live to run with the Pack and to hunt with the Pack ; and in the end , look you , hunter of little naked cub -- frog-eater -- fish-killer -- he shall hunt thee !
Now get hence , or by the Sambhur that I kill -LRB- I eat no starved cattle -RRB- , back thou goest to thy mother , burn beast of the jungle , lame than ever thou camest into the world !
Go ! ''
Father Wolf look on amaze .
He have almost forget the day when he win Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolf , when she run in the Pack and be not call The Demon for compliment 's sake .
Shere Khan might have face Father Wolf , but he could not stand up against Mother Wolf , for he know that where he be she have all the advantage of the ground , and would fight to the death .
So he back out of the cave mouth growling , and when he be clear he shout : `` Each dog bark in his own yard !
We will see what the Pack will say to this fostering of man-cubs .
The cub be mine , and to my teeth he will come in the end , O bush-tailed thief ! ''
Mother Wolf throw herself down pant among the cub , and Father Wolf say to her gravely : `` Shere Khan speak this much truth .
The cub must be show to the Pack .
Wilt thou still keep him , Mother ? ''
`` Keep him ! ''
she gasp .
`` He come naked , by night , alone and very hungry ; yet he be not afraid !
Look , he have push one of my babe to one side already .
And that lame butcher would have kill him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the villager here hunt through all our lair in revenge !
Keep him ?
Assuredly I will keep him .
Lie still , little frog .
O thou Mowgli -- for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee -- the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan a he have hunt thee . ''
`` But what will our Pack say ? ''
say Father Wolf .
The Law of the Jungle lay down very clearly that any wolf may , when he marry , withdraw from the Pack he belong to .
But as soon a his cub be old enough to stand on their foot he must bring them to the Pack Council , which be generally hold once a month at full moon , in order that the other wolf may identify them .
After that inspection the cub be free to run where they please , and until they have kill their first buck no excuse be accept if a grown wolf of the Pack kill one of them .
The punishment be death where the murderer can be find ; and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so .
Father Wolf wait till his cub could run a little , and then on the night of the Pack Meeting take them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the Council Rock -- a hilltop cover with stone and boulder where a hundred wolf could hide .
Akela , the great gray Lone Wolf , who lead all the Pack by strength and cunning , lay out at full length on his rock , and below him sit forty or more wolf of every size and color , from badger-colored veteran who could handle a buck alone to young black three-year-olds who think they could .
The Lone Wolf have lead them for a year now .
He have fall twice into a wolf trap in his youth , and once he have be beat and leave for dead ; so he know the manner and custom of men .
There be very little talk at the Rock .
The cub tumble over each other in the center of the circle where their mother and father sit , and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub , look at him carefully , and return to his place on noiseless foot .
Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he have not be overlook .
Akela from his rock would cry : `` Ye know the Law -- ye know the Law .
Look well , O Wolves ! ''
And the anxious mother would take up the call : `` Look -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
At last -- and Mother Wolf 's neck bristle lift a the time come -- Father Wolf push `` Mowgli the Frog , '' a they call him , into the center , where he sit laugh and play with some pebble that glisten in the moonlight .
Akela never raise his head from his paw , but go on with the monotonous cry : `` Look well ! ''
A muffled roar come up from behind the rock -- the voice of Shere Khan cry : `` The cub be mine .
Give him to me .
What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
Akela never even twitch his ear .
All he say be : `` Look well , O Wolves !
What have the Free People to do with the order of any save the Free People ?
Look well ! ''
There be a chorus of deep growl , and a young wolf in his fourth year flung back Shere Khan 's question to Akela : `` What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
Now , the Law of the Jungle lay down that if there be any dispute a to the right of a cub to be accept by the Pack , he must be speak for by at least two member of the Pack who be not his father and mother .
`` Who speak for this cub ? ''
say Akela .
`` Among the Free People who speak ? ''
There be no answer and Mother Wolf get ready for what she know would be her last fight , if thing come to fight .
Then the only other creature who be allow at the Pack Council -- Baloo , the sleepy brown bear who teach the wolf cub the Law of the Jungle : old Baloo , who can come and go where he please because he eat only nut and root and honey -- rise upon his hind quarter and grunt .
`` The man 's cub -- the man 's cub ? ''
he say .
`` I speak for the man 's cub .
There be no harm in a man 's cub .
I have no gift of word , but I speak the truth .
Let him run with the Pack , and be enter with the others .
I myself will teach him . ''
`` We need yet another , '' say Akela .
`` Baloo have speak , and he be our teacher for the young cub .
Who speak besides Baloo ? ''
A black shadow drop down into the circle .
It be Bagheera the Black Panther , inky black all over , but with the panther marking show up in certain light like the pattern of watered silk .
Everybody know Bagheera , and nobody care to cross his path ; for he be as cunning a Tabaqui , as bold a the wild buffalo , and as reckless a the wounded elephant .
But he have a voice as soft a wild honey drip from a tree , and a skin soft than down .
`` O Akela , and ye the Free People , '' he purr , `` I have no right in your assembly , but the Law of the Jungle say that if there be a doubt which be not a kill matter in regard to a new cub , the life of that cub may be buy at a price .
And the Law do not say who may or may not pay that price .
Am I right ? ''
`` Good !
Good ! ''
say the young wolf , who be always hungry .
`` Listen to Bagheera .
The cub can be buy for a price .
It be the Law . ''
`` Knowing that I have no right to speak here , I ask your leave . ''
`` Speak then , '' cry twenty voice .
`` To kill a naked cub be shame .
Besides , he may make good sport for you when he be grow .
Baloo have speak in his behalf .
Now to Baloo 's word I will add one bull , and a fat one , newly kill , not half a mile from here , if ye will accept the man 's cub accord to the Law .
Is it difficult ? ''
There be a clamor of score of voice , say : `` What matter ?
He will die in the winter rain .
He will scorch in the sun .
What harm can a naked frog do u ?
Let him run with the Pack .
Where be the bull , Bagheera ?
Let him be accept . ''
And then come Akela 's deep bay , cry : `` Look well -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
Mowgli be still deeply interested in the pebble , and he do not notice when the wolf come and look at him one by one .
At last they all go down the hill for the dead bull , and only Akela , Bagheera , Baloo , and Mowgli 's own wolf be leave .
Shere Khan roar still in the night , for he be very angry that Mowgli have not be hand over to him .
`` Ay , roar well , '' say Bagheera , under his whisker , `` for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune , or I know nothing of man . ''
`` It be well do , '' say Akela .
`` Men and their cub be very wise .
He may be a help in time . ''
`` Truly , a help in time of need ; for none can hope to lead the Pack forever , '' say Bagheera .
Akela say nothing .
He be think of the time that come to every leader of every pack when his strength go from him and he get feeble and feebler , till at last he be kill by the wolf and a new leader come up -- to be kill in his turn .
`` Take him away , '' he say to Father Wolf , `` and train him a befits one of the Free People . ''
And that be how Mowgli be enter into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo 's good word .
Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole year , and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli lead among the wolf , because if it be write out it would fill ever so many book .
He grow up with the cub , though they , of course , be grow wolf almost before he be a child .
And Father Wolf teach him his business , and the meaning of thing in the jungle , till every rustle in the grass , every breath of the warm night air , every note of the owl above his head , every scratch of a bat 's claw a it roost for a while in a tree , and every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him a the work of his office mean to a business man .
When he be not learn he sit out in the sun and slept , and ate and go to sleep again .
When he felt dirty or hot he swim in the forest pool ; and when he want honey -LRB- Baloo tell him that honey and nut be just as pleasant to eat a raw meat -RRB- he climb up for it , and that Bagheera show him how to do .
Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call , `` Come along , Little Brother , '' and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth , but afterward he would fling himself through the branch almost as boldly a the gray ape .
He take his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discover that if he star hard at any wolf , the wolf would be force to drop his eye , and so he use to stare for fun .
At other time he would pick the long thorns out of the pad of his friend , for wolf suffer terribly from thorn and bur in their coat .
He would go down the hillside into the cultivate land by night , and look very curiously at the villager in their hut , but he have a mistrust of men because Bagheera show him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hide in the jungle that he nearly walk into it , and tell him that it be a trap .
He love good than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera do his killing .
Bagheera kill right and leave a he felt hungry , and so do Mowgli -- with one exception .
As soon a he be old enough to understand thing , Bagheera tell him that he must never touch cattle because he have be buy into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
`` All the jungle be thine , '' say Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that buy thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
That be the Law of the Jungle . ''
Mowgli obey faithfully .
And he grow and grow strong a a boy must grow who do not know that he be learn any lesson , and who have nothing in the world to think of except thing to eat .
Mother Wolf tell him once or twice that Shere Khan be not a creature to be trust , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
But though a young wolf would have remember that advice every hour , Mowgli forget it because he be only a boy -- though he would have call himself a wolf if he have be able to speak in any human tongue .
Shere Khan be always cross his path in the jungle , for a Akela grow old and feebler the lame tiger have come to be great friend with the young wolf of the Pack , who follow him for scrap , a thing Akela would never have allow if he have dare to push his authority to the proper bound .
Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunter be content to be lead by a die wolf and a man 's cub .
`` They tell me , '' Shere Khan would say , `` that at Council ye dare not look him between the eye . ''
And the young wolf would growl and bristle .
Bagheera , who have eye and ear everywhere , know something of this , and once or twice he tell Mowgli in so many word that Shere Khan would kill him some day .
Mowgli would laugh and answer : `` I have the Pack and I have thee ; and Baloo , though he be so lazy , might strike a blow or two for my sake .
Why should I be afraid ? ''
It be one very warm day that a new notion come to Bagheera -- born of something that he have hear .
Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine have tell him ; but he say to Mowgli when they be deep in the jungle , a the boy lay with his head on Bagheera 's beautiful black skin , `` Little Brother , how often have I tell thee that Shere Khan be thy enemy ? ''
`` As many time a there be nut on that palm , '' say Mowgli , who , naturally , could not count .
`` What of it ?
I be sleepy , Bagheera , and Shere Khan be all long tail and loud talk -- like Mao , the Peacock . ''
`` But this be no time for sleep .
Baloo know it ; I know it ; the Pack know it ; and even the foolish , foolish deer know .
Tabaqui have tell thee too . ''
`` Ho !
ho ! ''
say Mowgli .
`` Tabaqui come to me not long ago with some rude talk that I be a naked man 's cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts .
But I catch Tabaqui by the tail and swing him twice against a palm-tree to teach him good manner . ''
`` That be foolishness , for though Tabaqui be a mischief-maker , he would have tell thee of something that concern thee closely .
Open those eye , Little Brother .
Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle .
But remember , Akela be very old , and soon the day come when he can not kill his buck , and then he will be leader no more .
Many of the wolf that look thee over when thou wast bring to the Council first be old too , and the young wolf believe , a Shere Khan have teach them , that a man-cub have no place with the Pack .
In a little time thou wilt be a man . ''
`` And what be a man that he should not run with his brother ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` I be bear in the jungle .
I have obey the Law of the Jungle , and there be no wolf of ours from whose paw I have not pull a thorn .
Surely they be my brother ! ''
Bagheera stretch himself at full length and half shut his eye .
`` Little Brother , '' say he , `` feel under my jaw . ''
Mowgli put up his strong brown hand , and just under Bagheera 's silky chin , where the giant rolling muscle be all hide by the glossy hair , he come upon a little bald spot .
`` There be no one in the jungle that know that I , Bagheera , carry that mark -- the mark of the collar ; and yet , Little Brother , I be bear among men , and it be among men that my mother die -- in the cage of the king 's palace at Oodeypore .
It be because of this that I pay the price for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub .
Yes , I too be bear among men .
I have never see the jungle .
They feed me behind bar from an iron pan till one night I felt that I be Bagheera -- the Panther -- and no man 's plaything , and I break the silly lock with one blow of my paw and come away .
And because I have learn the way of men , I become more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan .
Is it not so ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Mowgli , `` all the jungle fear Bagheera -- all except Mowgli . ''
`` Oh , thou art a man 's cub , '' say the Black Panther very tenderly .
`` And even a I return to my jungle , so thou must go back to men at last -- to the men who be thy brother -- if thou art not kill in the Council . ''
`` But why -- but why should any wish to kill me ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` Look at me , '' say Bagheera .
And Mowgli look at him steadily between the eye .
The big panther turn his head away in half a minute .
`` That be why , '' he say , shift his paw on the leaf .
`` Not even I can look thee between the eye , and I be bear among men , and I love thee , Little Brother .
The others they hate thee because their eye can not meet thine ; because thou art wise ; because thou hast pull out thorn from their foot -- because thou art a man . ''
`` I do not know these thing , '' say Mowgli sullenly , and he frown under his heavy black eyebrow .
`` What be the Law of the Jungle ?
Strike first and then give tongue .
By thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man .
But be wise .
It be in my heart that when Akela miss his next kill -- and at each hunt it cost him more to pin the buck -- the Pack will turn against him and against thee .
They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock , and then -- and then -- I have it ! ''
say Bagheera , leap up .
`` Go thou down quickly to the men 's hut in the valley , and take some of the Red Flower which they grow there , so that when the time come thou mayest have even a strong friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee .
Get the Red Flower . ''
By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire , only no creature in the jungle will call fire by it proper name .
Every beast live in deadly fear of it , and invent a hundred way of describe it .
`` The Red Flower ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` That grow outside their hut in the twilight .
I will get some . ''
`` There speak the man 's cub , '' say Bagheera proudly .
`` Remember that it grow in little pot .
Get one swiftly , and keep it by thee for time of need . ''
`` Good ! ''
say Mowgli .
`` I go .
But art thou sure , O my Bagheera '' -- he slip his arm around the splendid neck and look deep into the big eye -- `` art thou sure that all this be Shere Khan 's do ? ''
`` By the Broken Lock that free me , I be sure , Little Brother . ''
`` Then , by the Bull that buy me , I will pay Shere Khan full tale for this , and it may be a little over , '' say Mowgli , and he bound away .
`` That be a man .
That be all a man , '' say Bagheera to himself , lie down again .
`` Oh , Shere Khan , never be a blacker hunt than that frog-hunt of thine ten year ago ! ''
Mowgli be far and far through the forest , run hard , and his heart be hot in him .
He come to the cave a the evening mist rise , and draw breath , and look down the valley .
The cub be out , but Mother Wolf , at the back of the cave , know by his breathing that something be trouble her frog .
`` What be it , Son ? ''
she say .
`` Some bat 's chatter of Shere Khan , '' he call back .
`` I hunt among the plow field tonight , '' and he plunge downward through the bush , to the stream at the bottom of the valley .
There he check , for he hear the yell of the Pack hunting , hear the bellow of a hunted Sambhur , and the snort a the buck turn at bay .
Then there be wicked , bitter howl from the young wolf : `` Akela !
Akela !
Let the Lone Wolf show his strength .
Room for the leader of the Pack !
Spring , Akela ! ''
The Lone Wolf must have sprung and miss his hold , for Mowgli hear the snap of his teeth and then a yelp a the Sambhur knock him over with his forefoot .
He do not wait for anything more , but dash on ; and the yell grow fainter behind him a he run into the croplands where the villager live .
`` Bagheera speak truth , '' he pant , a he nestle down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut .
`` To-morrow be one day both for Akela and for me . ''
Then he press his face close to the window and watch the fire on the hearth .
He saw the husbandman 's wife get up and fee it in the night with black lump .
And when the morning come and the mist be all white and cold , he saw the man 's child pick up a wicker pot plaster inside with earth , fill it with lump of red-hot charcoal , put it under his blanket , and go out to tend the cow in the byre .
`` Is that all ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` If a cub can do it , there be nothing to fear . ''
So he stride round the corner and meet the boy , take the pot from his hand , and disappear into the mist while the boy howl with fear .
`` They be very like me , '' say Mowgli , blow into the pot a he have see the woman do .
`` This thing will die if I do not give it thing to eat '' ; and he drop twig and dry bark on the red stuff .
Halfway up the hill he meet Bagheera with the morning dew shin like moonstone on his coat .
`` Akela have miss , '' say the Panther .
`` They would have kill him last night , but they need thee also .
They be look for thee on the hill . ''
`` I be among the plowed land .
I be ready .
See ! ''
Mowgli hold up the fire-pot .
`` Good !
Now , I have see men thrust a dry branch into that stuff , and presently the Red Flower blossom at the end of it .
Art thou not afraid ? ''
`` No .
Why should I fear ?
I remember now -- if it be not a dream -- how , before I be a Wolf , I lay beside the Red Flower , and it be warm and pleasant . ''
All that day Mowgli sit in the cave tend his fire pot and dip dry branch into it to see how they look .
He find a branch that satisfy him , and in the evening when Tabaqui come to the cave and tell him rudely enough that he be want at the Council Rock , he laugh till Tabaqui run away .
Then Mowgli go to the Council , still laugh .
Akela the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock a a sign that the leadership of the Pack be open , and Shere Khan with his follow of scrap-fed wolf walk to and fro openly be flatter .
Bagheera lay close to Mowgli , and the fire pot be between Mowgli 's knee .
When they be all gather together , Shere Khan begin to speak -- a thing he would never have dare to do when Akela be in his prime .
`` He have no right , '' whisper Bagheera .
`` Say so .
He be a dog 's son .
He will be frighten . ''
Mowgli sprang to his foot .
`` Free People , '' he cry , `` do Shere Khan lead the Pack ?
What have a tiger to do with our leadership ? ''
`` Seeing that the leadership be yet open , and be ask to speak -- '' Shere Khan begin .
`` By whom ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` Are we all jackal , to fawn on this cattle butcher ?
The leadership of the Pack be with the Pack alone . ''
There be yell of `` Silence , thou man 's cub ! ''
`` Let him speak .
He have keep our Law '' ; and at last the senior of the Pack thunder : `` Let the Dead Wolf speak . ''
When a leader of the Pack have miss his kill , he be call the Dead Wolf as long a he live , which be not long .
Akela raise his old head wearily : -- `` Free People , and ye too , jackal of Shere Khan , for twelve season I have lead ye to and from the kill , and in all that time not one have be trap or maim .
Now I have miss my kill .
Ye know how that plot be make .
Ye know how ye bring me up to an untried buck to make my weakness know .
It be cleverly do .
Your right be to kill me here on the Council Rock , now .
Therefore , I ask , who come to make an end of the Lone Wolf ?
For it be my right , by the Law of the Jungle , that ye come one by one . ''
There be a long hush , for no single wolf care to fight Akela to the death .
Then Shere Khan roar : `` Bah !
What have we to do with this toothless fool ?
He be doom to die !
It be the man-cub who have live too long .
Free People , he be my meat from the first .
Give him to me .
I be weary of this man-wolf folly .
He have trouble the jungle for ten season .
Give me the man-cub , or I will hunt here always , and not give you one bone .
He be a man , a man 's child , and from the marrow of my bone I hate him ! ''
Then more than half the Pack yell : `` A man !
A man !
What have a man to do with u ?
Let him go to his own place . ''
`` And turn all the people of the village against u ? ''
clamor Shere Khan .
`` No , give him to me .
He be a man , and none of u can look him between the eye . ''
Akela lift his head again and say , `` He have eat our food .
He have sleep with u .
He have drive game for u .
He have break no word of the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` Also , I pay for him with a bull when he be accept .
The worth of a bull be little , but Bagheera 's honor be something that he will perhaps fight for , '' say Bagheera in his gentle voice .
`` A bull pay ten year ago ! ''
the Pack snarl .
`` What do we care for bone ten year old ? ''
`` Or for a pledge ? ''
say Bagheera , his white teeth bar under his lip .
`` Well be ye call the Free People ! ''
`` No man 's cub can run with the people of the jungle , '' howl Shere Khan .
`` Give him to me ! ''
`` He be our brother in all but blood , '' Akela go on , `` and ye would kill him here !
In truth , I have live too long .
Some of ye be eater of cattle , and of others I have hear that , under Shere Khan 's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch child from the villager 's doorstep .
Therefore I know ye to be coward , and it be to coward I speak .
It be certain that I must die , and my life be of no worth , or I would offer that in the man-cub 's place .
But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack , -- a little matter that by be without a leader ye have forget , -- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place , I will not , when my time come to die , bare one tooth against ye .
I will die without fight .
That will at least save the Pack three life .
More I can not do ; but if ye will , I can save ye the shame that come of kill a brother against whom there be no fault -- a brother spoken for and buy into the Pack accord to the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` He be a man -- a man -- a man ! ''
snarl the Pack .
And most of the wolf begin to gather round Shere Khan , whose tail be begin to switch .
`` Now the business be in thy hand , '' say Bagheera to Mowgli .
`` We can do no more except fight . ''
Mowgli stand upright -- the fire pot in his hand .
Then he stretch out his arm , and yawn in the face of the Council ; but he be furious with rage and sorrow , for , wolflike , the wolf have never tell him how they hat him .
`` Listen you ! ''
he cry .
`` There be no need for this dog 's jabber .
Ye have tell me so often tonight that I be a man -LRB- and indeed I would have be a wolf with you to my life 's end -RRB- that I feel your word be true .
So I do not call ye my brother any more , but sag -LSB- dog -RSB- , a a man should .
What ye will do , and what ye will not do , be not yours to say .
That matter be with me ; and that we may see the matter more plainly , I , the man , have bring here a little of the Red Flower which ye , dog , fear . ''
He fling the fire pot on the ground , and some of the red coal light a tuft of dried moss that flare up , a all the Council draw back in terror before the leaping flame .
Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twig lit and crackle , and whirl it above his head among the cower wolf .
`` Thou art the master , '' say Bagheera in an undertone .
`` Save Akela from the death .
He be ever thy friend . ''
Akela , the grim old wolf who have never ask for mercy in his life , give one piteous look at Mowgli a the boy stand all naked , his long black hair toss over his shoulder in the light of the blazing branch that make the shadow jump and quiver .
`` Good ! ''
say Mowgli , star round slowly .
`` I see that ye be dog .
I go from you to my own people -- if they be my own people .
The jungle be shut to me , and I must forget your talk and your companionship .
But I will be more merciful than ye be .
Because I be all but your brother in blood , I promise that when I be a man among men I will not betray ye to men a ye have betray me . ''
He kick the fire with his foot , and the spark fly up .
`` There shall be no war between any of u in the Pack .
But here be a debt to pay before I go . ''
He stride forward to where Shere Khan sit blink stupidly at the flame , and catch him by the tuft on his chin .
Bagheera follow in case of accident .
`` Up , dog ! ''
Mowgli cry .
`` Up , when a man speak , or I will set that coat ablaze ! ''
Shere Khan 's ear lay flat back on his head , and he shut his eye , for the blazing branch be very near .
`` This cattle-killer say he would kill me in the Council because he have not kill me when I be a cub .
Thus and thus , then , do we beat dog when we be men .
Stir a whisker , Lungri , and I ram the Red Flower down thy gullet ! ''
He beat Shere Khan over the head with the branch , and the tiger whimper and whine in an agony of fear .
`` Pah !
Singed jungle cat -- go now !
But remember when next I come to the Council Rock , a a man should come , it will be with Shere Khan 's hide on my head .
For the rest , Akela go free to live a he please .
Ye will not kill him , because that be not my will .
Nor do I think that ye will sit here any long , loll out your tongue a though ye be somebody , instead of dog whom I drive out -- thus !
Go ! ''
The fire be burn furiously at the end of the branch , and Mowgli strike right and leave round the circle , and the wolf run howl with the spark burn their fur .
At last there be only Akela , Bagheera , and perhaps ten wolf that have take Mowgli 's part .
Then something begin to hurt Mowgli inside him , a he have never be hurt in his life before , and he catch his breath and sobbed , and the tear run down his face .
`` What be it ?
What be it ? ''
he say .
`` I do not wish to leave the jungle , and I do not know what this be .
Am I die , Bagheera ? ''
`` No , Little Brother .
That be only tear such a men use , '' say Bagheera .
`` Now I know thou art a man , and a man 's cub no longer .
The jungle be shut indeed to thee henceforward .
Let them fall , Mowgli .
They be only tear . ''
So Mowgli sat and cry a though his heart would break ; and he have never cry in all his life before .
`` Now , '' he say , `` I will go to men .
But first I must say farewell to my mother . ''
And he go to the cave where she live with Father Wolf , and he cry on her coat , while the four cub howl miserably .
`` Ye will not forget me ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` Never while we can follow a trail , '' say the cub .
`` Come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man , and we will talk to thee ; and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night . ''
`` Come soon ! ''
say Father Wolf .
`` Oh , wise little frog , come again soon ; for we be old , thy mother and I. '' `` Come soon , '' say Mother Wolf , `` little naked son of mine .
For , listen , child of man , I love thee more than ever I love my cub . ''
`` I will surely come , '' say Mowgli .
`` And when I come it will be to lay out Shere Khan 's hide upon the Council Rock .
Do not forget me !
Tell them in the jungle never to forget me ! ''
The dawn be begin to break when Mowgli go down the hillside alone , to meet those mysterious thing that be call men .
Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack As the dawn be break the Sambhur bell Once , twice and again !
And a doe leap up , and a doe leap up From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup .
This I , scout alone , beheld , Once , twice and again !
As the dawn be break the Sambhur bell Once , twice and again !
And a wolf stole back , and a wolf stole back To carry the word to the wait pack , And we seek and we find and we bay on his track Once , twice and again !
As the dawn be break the Wolf Pack yell Once , twice and again !
Feet in the jungle that leave no mark !
Eyes that can see in the dark -- the dark !
Tongue -- give tongue to it !
Hark !
O hark !
Once , twice and again !
Kaa 's Hunting His spot be the joy of the Leopard : his horn be the Buffalo 's pride .
Be clean , for the strength of the hunter be know by the gloss of his hide .
If ye find that the Bullock can toss you , or the heavy-browed Sambhur can gore ; Ye need not stop work to inform u : we know it ten season before .
Oppress not the cub of the stranger , but hail them a Sister and Brother , For though they be little and fubsy , it may be the Bear be their mother .
`` There be none like to me ! ''
say the Cub in the pride of his early kill ; But the jungle be large and the Cub he be small .
Let him think and be still .
Maxims of Baloo All that be tell here happen some time before Mowgli be turn out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack , or revenge himself on Shere Khan the tiger .
It be in the day when Baloo be teach him the Law of the Jungle .
The big , serious , old brown bear be delight to have so quick a pupil , for the young wolf will only learn a much of the Law of the Jungle a applies to their own pack and tribe , and run away as soon a they can repeat the Hunting Verse -- `` Feet that make no noise ; eye that can see in the dark ; ears that can hear the wind in their lair , and sharp white teeth , all these thing be the mark of our brother except Tabaqui the Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate . ''
But Mowgli , a a man-cub , have to learn a great deal more than this .
Sometimes Bagheera the Black Panther would come lounge through the jungle to see how his pet be get on , and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recite the day 's lesson to Baloo .
The boy could climb almost as well a he could swim , and swim almost as well a he could run .
So Baloo , the Teacher of the Law , teach him the Wood and Water Laws : how to tell a rotten branch from a sound one ; how to speak politely to the wild bee when he come upon a hive of them fifty foot above ground ; what to say to Mang the Bat when he disturb him in the branch at midday ; and how to warn the water-snakes in the pool before he splash down among them .
None of the Jungle People like be disturb , and all be very ready to fly at an intruder .
Then , too , Mowgli be teach the Strangers ' Hunting Call , which must be repeat aloud till it be answer , whenever one of the Jungle-People hunt outside his own ground .
It mean , translate , `` Give me leave to hunt here because I be hungry . ''
And the answer be , `` Hunt then for food , but not for pleasure . ''
All this will show you how much Mowgli have to learn by heart , and he grow very tired of say the same thing over a hundred time .
But , a Baloo say to Bagheera , one day when Mowgli have be cuff and run off in a temper , `` A man 's cub be a man 's cub , and he must learn all the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` But think how small he be , '' say the Black Panther , who would have spoil Mowgli if he have have his own way .
`` How can his little head carry all thy long talk ? ''
`` Is there anything in the jungle too little to be kill ?
No .
That be why I teach him these thing , and that be why I hit him , very softly , when he forget . ''
`` Softly !
What dost thou know of softness , old Iron-feet ? ''
Bagheera grunt .
`` His face be all bruise today by thy -- softness .
Ugh . ''
`` Better he should be bruise from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come to harm through ignorance , '' Baloo answer very earnestly .
`` I be now teach him the Master Words of the Jungle that shall protect him with the bird and the Snake People , and all that hunt on four foot , except his own pack .
He can now claim protection , if he will only remember the word , from all in the jungle .
Is not that worth a little beating ? ''
`` Well , look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub .
He be no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claw upon .
But what be those Master Words ?
I be more likely to give help than to ask it '' -- Bagheera stretch out one paw and admire the steel-blue , ripping-chisel talon at the end of it -- `` still I should like to know . ''
`` I will call Mowgli and he shall say them -- if he will .
Come , Little Brother ! ''
`` My head be ring like a bee tree , '' say a sullen little voice over their head , and Mowgli slide down a tree trunk very angry and indignant , add a he reach the ground : `` I come for Bagheera and not for thee , fat old Baloo ! ''
`` That be all one to me , '' say Baloo , though he be hurt and grieve .
`` Tell Bagheera , then , the Master Words of the Jungle that I have teach thee this day . ''
`` Master Words for which people ? ''
say Mowgli , delight to show off .
`` The jungle have many tongue .
I know them all . ''
`` A little thou knowest , but not much .
See , O Bagheera , they never thank their teacher .
Not one small wolfling have ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teaching .
Say the word for the Hunting-People , then -- great scholar . ''
`` We be of one blood , ye and I , '' say Mowgli , give the word the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use .
`` Good .
Now for the bird . ''
Mowgli repeat , with the Kite 's whistle at the end of the sentence .
`` Now for the Snake-People , '' say Bagheera .
The answer be a perfectly indescribable hiss , and Mowgli kick up his foot behind , clap his hand together to applaud himself , and jump on to Bagheera 's back , where he sit sideways , drum with his heel on the glossy skin and make the bad face he could think of at Baloo .
`` There -- there !
That be worth a little bruise , '' say the brown bear tenderly .
`` Some day thou wilt remember me . ''
Then he turn aside to tell Bagheera how he have beg the Master Words from Hathi the Wild Elephant , who know all about these thing , and how Hathi have take Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake , because Baloo could not pronounce it , and how Mowgli be now reasonably safe against all accident in the jungle , because neither snake , bird , nor beast would hurt him .
`` No one then be to be fear , '' Baloo wind up , pat his big furry stomach with pride .
`` Except his own tribe , '' say Bagheera , under his breath ; and then aloud to Mowgli , `` Have a care for my rib , Little Brother !
What be all this dance up and down ? ''
Mowgli have be try to make himself hear by pull at Bagheera 's shoulder fur and kick hard .
When the two listen to him he be shout at the top of his voice , `` And so I shall have a tribe of my own , and lead them through the branch all day long . ''
`` What be this new folly , little dreamer of dream ? ''
say Bagheera .
`` Yes , and throw branch and dirt at old Baloo , '' Mowgli go on .
`` They have promise me this .
Ah ! ''
`` Whoof ! ''
Baloo 's big paw scoop Mowgli off Bagheera 's back , and a the boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear be angry .
`` Mowgli , '' say Baloo , `` thou hast be talk with the Bandar-log -- the Monkey People . ''
Mowgli look at Bagheera to see if the Panther be angry too , and Bagheera 's eye be as hard a jade stone .
`` Thou hast be with the Monkey People -- the gray ape -- the people without a law -- the eater of everything .
That be great shame . ''
`` When Baloo hurt my head , '' say Mowgli -LRB- he be still on his back -RRB- , `` I go away , and the gray ape come down from the tree and have pity on me .
No one else care . ''
He snuffle a little .
`` The pity of the Monkey People ! ''
Baloo snort .
`` The stillness of the mountain stream !
The cool of the summer sun !
And then , man-cub ? ''
`` And then , and then , they give me nut and pleasant thing to eat , and they -- they carry me in their arm up to the top of the tree and say I be their blood brother except that I have no tail , and should be their leader some day . ''
`` They have no leader , '' say Bagheera .
`` They lie .
They have always lie . ''
`` They be very kind and bid me come again .
Why have I never be take among the Monkey People ?
They stand on their foot a I do .
They do not hit me with their hard paw .
They play all day .
Let me get up !
Bad Baloo , let me up !
I will play with them again . ''
`` Listen , man-cub , '' say the Bear , and his voice rumble like thunder on a hot night .
`` I have teach thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the people of the jungle -- except the Monkey-Folk who live in the tree .
They have no law .
They be outcast .
They have no speech of their own , but use the stolen word which they overhear when they listen , and peep , and wait up above in the branch .
Their way be not our way .
They be without leader .
They have no remembrance .
They boast and chatter and pretend that they be a great people about to do great affair in the jungle , but the fall of a nut turn their mind to laughter and all be forget .
We of the jungle have no dealing with them .
We do not drink where the monkey drink ; we do not go where the monkey go ; we do not hunt where they hunt ; we do not die where they die .
Hast thou ever hear me speak of the Bandar-log till today ? ''
`` No , '' say Mowgli in a whisper , for the forest be very still now Baloo have finish .
`` The Jungle-People put them out of their mouth and out of their mind .
They be very many , evil , dirty , shameless , and they desire , if they have any fixed desire , to be notice by the Jungle People .
But we do not notice them even when they throw nut and filth on our head . ''
He have hardly speak when a shower of nut and twig spatter down through the branch ; and they could hear coughing and howling and angry jumping high up in the air among the thin branch .
`` The Monkey-People be forbidden , '' say Baloo , `` forbidden to the Jungle-People .
Remember . ''
`` Forbidden , '' say Bagheera , `` but I still think Baloo should have warn thee against them . ''
`` I -- I ?
How be I to guess he would play with such dirt .
The Monkey People !
Faugh ! ''
A fresh shower come down on their head and the two trot away , take Mowgli with them .
What Baloo have say about the monkey be perfectly true .
They belong to the tree-tops , and a beast very seldom look up , there be no occasion for the monkey and the Jungle-People to cross each other 's path .
But whenever they find a sick wolf , or a wounded tiger , or bear , the monkey would torment him , and would throw stick and nut at any beast for fun and in the hope of be notice .
Then they would howl and shriek senseless song , and invite the Jungle-People to climb up their tree and fight them , or would start furious battle over nothing among themselves , and leave the dead monkey where the Jungle-People could see them .
They be always just go to have a leader , and law and custom of their own , but they never do , because their memory would not hold over from day to day , and so they compromise thing by make up a saying , `` What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later , '' and that comfort them a great deal .
None of the beast could reach them , but on the other hand none of the beast would notice them , and that be why they be so pleased when Mowgli come to play with them , and they hear how angry Baloo be .
They never mean to do any more -- the Bandar-log never mean anything at all ; but one of them invent what seem to him a brilliant idea , and he tell all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe , because he could weave stick together for protection from the wind ; so , if they catch him , they could make him teach them .
Of course Mowgli , a a woodcutter 's child , inherit all sort of instinct , and use to make little hut of fall branch without think how he come to do it .
The Monkey-People , watch in the tree , consider his play most wonderful .
This time , they say , they be really go to have a leader and become the wise people in the jungle -- so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them .
Therefore they follow Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it be time for the midday nap , and Mowgli , who be very much ashamed of himself , sleep between the Panther and the Bear , resolve to have no more to do with the Monkey People .
The next thing he remember be feel hand on his leg and arm -- hard , strong , little hand -- and then a swash of branch in his face , and then he be star down through the sway bough a Baloo wake the jungle with his deep cry and Bagheera bound up the trunk with every tooth bar .
The Bandar-log howl with triumph and scuffle away to the upper branch where Bagheera dare not follow , shouting : `` He have notice u !
Bagheera have notice u .
All the Jungle-People admire u for our skill and our cunning . ''
Then they begin their flight ; and the flight of the Monkey-People through tree-land be one of the thing nobody can describe .
They have their regular road and crossroad , up hill and down hill , all lay out from fifty to seventy or a hundred foot above ground , and by these they can travel even at night if necessary .
Two of the strong monkey catch Mowgli under the arm and swing off with him through the treetop , twenty foot at a bound .
Had they be alone they could have go twice a fast , but the boy 's weight hold them back .
Sick and giddy a Mowgli be he could not help enjoy the wild rush , though the glimpse of earth far down below frighten him , and the terrible check and jerk at the end of the swing over nothing but empty air bring his heart between his teeth .
His escort would rush him up a tree till he felt the thin topmost branch crackle and bend under them , and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves into the air outward and downward , and bring up , hang by their hand or their foot to the low limb of the next tree .
Sometimes he could see for mile and mile across the still green jungle , a a man on the top of a mast can see for mile across the sea , and then the branch and leaf would lash him across the face , and he and his two guard would be almost down to earth again .
So , bound and crash and whooping and yelling , the whole tribe of Bandar-log swept along the tree-roads with Mowgli their prisoner .
For a time he be afraid of be drop .
Then he grow angry but know good than to struggle , and then he begin to think .
The first thing be to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera , for , at the pace the monkey be go , he know his friend would be leave far behind .
It be useless to look down , for he could only see the topside of the branch , so he star upward and saw , far away in the blue , Rann the Kite balancing and wheeling a he keep watch over the jungle wait for thing to die .
Rann saw that the monkey be carry something , and drop a few hundred yard to find out whether their load be good to eat .
He whistle with surprise when he saw Mowgli be drag up to a treetop and hear him give the Kite call for -- `` We be of one blood , thou and I. '' The wave of the branch close over the boy , but Rann balance away to the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again .
`` Mark my trail ! ''
Mowgli shout .
`` Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock . ''
`` In whose name , Brother ? ''
Rann have never see Mowgli before , though of course he have hear of him .
`` Mowgli , the Frog .
Man-cub they call me !
Mark my trail ! ''
The last word be shriek a he be be swing through the air , but Rann nod and rise up till he look no big than a speck of dust , and there he hang , watch with his telescope eye the swaying of the treetop a Mowgli 's escort whirl along .
`` They never go far , '' he say with a chuckle .
`` They never do what they set out to do .
Always peck at new thing be the Bandar-log .
This time , if I have any eye-sight , they have peck down trouble for themselves , for Baloo be no fledgling and Bagheera can , a I know , kill more than goat . ''
So he rock on his wing , his foot gather up under him , and wait .
Meantime , Baloo and Bagheera be furious with rage and grief .
Bagheera climb a he have never climb before , but the thin branch break beneath his weight , and he slip down , his claws full of bark .
`` Why didst thou not warn the man-cub ? ''
he roar to poor Baloo , who have set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtake the monkey .
`` What be the use of half slay him with blow if thou didst not warn him ? ''
`` Haste !
O haste !
We -- we may catch them yet ! ''
Baloo pant .
`` At that speed !
It would not tire a wounded cow .
Teacher of the Law -- cub-beater -- a mile of that roll to and fro would burst thee open .
Sit still and think !
Make a plan .
This be no time for chase .
They may drop him if we follow too close . ''
`` Arrula !
Whoo !
They may have drop him already , be tire of carry him .
Who can trust the Bandar-log ?
Put dead bat on my head !
Give me black bone to eat !
Roll me into the hive of the wild bee that I may be sting to death , and bury me with the Hyaena , for I be most miserable of bear !
Arulala !
Wahooa !
O Mowgli , Mowgli !
Why do I not warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of break thy head ?
Now perhaps I may have knock the day 's lesson out of his mind , and he will be alone in the jungle without the Master Words . ''
Baloo clasp his paw over his ear and roll to and fro moaning .
`` At least he give me all the Words correctly a little time ago , '' say Bagheera impatiently .
`` Baloo , thou hast neither memory nor respect .
What would the jungle think if I , the Black Panther , curl myself up like Ikki the Porcupine , and howl ? ''
`` What do I care what the jungle think ?
He may be dead by now . ''
`` Unless and until they drop him from the branch in sport , or kill him out of idleness , I have no fear for the man-cub .
He be wise and well taught , and above all he have the eye that make the Jungle-People afraid .
But -LRB- and it be a great evil -RRB- he be in the power of the Bandar-log , and they , because they live in tree , have no fear of any of our people . ''
Bagheera lick one forepaw thoughtfully .
`` Fool that I be !
Oh , fat , brown , root-digging fool that I be , '' say Baloo , uncoil himself with a jerk , `` it be true what Hathi the Wild Elephant say : ` To each his own fear ' ; and they , the Bandar-log , fear Kaa the Rock Snake .
He can climb as well a they can .
He steal the young monkey in the night .
The whisper of his name make their wicked tail cold .
Let u go to Kaa . ''
`` What will he do for u ?
He be not of our tribe , be footless -- and with most evil eye , '' say Bagheera .
`` He be very old and very cunning .
Above all , he be always hungry , '' say Baloo hopefully .
`` Promise him many goat . ''
`` He sleep for a full month after he have once eat .
He may be asleep now , and even be he awake what if he would rather kill his own goat ? ''
Bagheera , who do not know much about Kaa , be naturally suspicious .
`` Then in that case , thou and I together , old hunter , might make him see reason . ''
Here Baloo rub his faded brown shoulder against the Panther , and they go off to look for Kaa the Rock Python .
They find him stretch out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun , admire his beautiful new coat , for he have be in retirement for the last ten day change his skin , and now he be very splendid -- dart his big blunt-nosed head along the ground , and twist the thirty foot of his body into fantastic knot and curve , and lick his lip a he think of his dinner to come .
`` He have not eat , '' say Baloo , with a grunt of relief , as soon a he saw the beautifully mottle brown and yellow jacket .
`` Be careful , Bagheera !
He be always a little blind after he have change his skin , and very quick to strike . ''
Kaa be not a poison snake -- in fact he rather despise the poison snake a coward -- but his strength lay in his hug , and when he have once lap his huge coil round anybody there be no more to be say .
`` Good hunting ! ''
cry Baloo , sit up on his haunch .
Like all snake of his breed Kaa be rather deaf , and do not hear the call at first .
Then he curl up ready for any accident , his head lower .
`` Good hunting for u all , '' he answer .
`` Oho , Baloo , what dost thou do here ?
Good hunting , Bagheera .
One of u at least need food .
Is there any news of game afoot ?
A doe now , or even a young buck ?
I be as empty a a dry well . ''
`` We be hunt , '' say Baloo carelessly .
He know that you must not hurry Kaa .
He be too big .
`` Give me permission to come with you , '' say Kaa .
`` A blow more or less be nothing to thee , Bagheera or Baloo , but I -- I have to wait and wait for day in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a young ape .
Psshaw !
The branch be not what they be when I be young .
Rotten twig and dry bough be they all . ''
`` Maybe thy great weight have something to do with the matter , '' say Baloo .
`` I be a fair length -- a fair length , '' say Kaa with a little pride .
`` But for all that , it be the fault of this new-grown timber .
I come very near to fall on my last hunt -- very near indeed -- and the noise of my slipping , for my tail be not tight wrap around the tree , wake the Bandar-log , and they call me most evil name . ''
`` Footless , yellow earth-worm , '' say Bagheera under his whisker , a though he be try to remember something .
`` Sssss !
Have they ever call me that ? ''
say Kaa .
`` Something of that kind it be that they shout to u last moon , but we never notice them .
They will say anything -- even that thou hast lose all thy teeth , and wilt not face anything big than a kid , because -LRB- they be indeed shameless , these Bandar-log -RRB- -- because thou art afraid of the he-goat 's horn , '' Bagheera go on sweetly .
Now a snake , especially a wary old python like Kaa , very seldom show that he be angry , but Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing muscle on either side of Kaa 's throat ripple and bulge .
`` The Bandar-log have shift their ground , '' he say quietly .
`` When I come up into the sun today I hear them whoop among the tree-tops . ''
`` It -- it be the Bandar-log that we follow now , '' say Baloo , but the word stick in his throat , for that be the first time in his memory that one of the Jungle-People have own to be interested in the doings of the monkey .
`` Beyond doubt then it be no small thing that take two such hunter -- leader in their own jungle I be certain -- on the trail of the Bandar-log , '' Kaa reply courteously , a he swell with curiosity .
`` Indeed , '' Baloo begin , `` I be no more than the old and sometimes very foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs , and Bagheera here -- '' `` Is Bagheera , '' say the Black Panther , and his jaw shut with a snap , for he do not believe in be humble .
`` The trouble be this , Kaa .
Those nut-stealers and picker of palm leaf have steal away our man-cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard . ''
`` I hear some news from Ikki -LRB- his quill make him presumptuous -RRB- of a man-thing that be enter into a wolf pack , but I do not believe .
Ikki be full of story half heard and very badly tell . ''
`` But it be true .
He be such a man-cub a never be , '' say Baloo .
`` The best and wise and bold of man-cubs -- my own pupil , who shall make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungle ; and besides , I -- we -- love him , Kaa . ''
`` Ts !
Ts ! ''
say Kaa , weave his head to and fro .
`` I also have know what love be .
There be tale I could tell that -- '' `` That need a clear night when we be all well feed to praise properly , '' say Bagheera quickly .
`` Our man-cub be in the hand of the Bandar-log now , and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone . ''
`` They fear me alone .
They have good reason , '' say Kaa .
`` Chattering , foolish , vain -- vain , foolish , and chattering , be the monkey .
But a man-thing in their hand be in no good luck .
They grow tire of the nut they pick , and throw them down .
They carry a branch half a day , mean to do great thing with it , and then they snap it in two .
That man-thing be not to be envy .
They call me also -- ` yellow fish ' be it not ? ''
`` Worm -- worm -- earth-worm , '' say Bagheera , `` as well a other thing which I can not now say for shame . ''
`` We must remind them to speak well of their master .
Aaa-ssp !
We must help their wandering memory .
Now , whither go they with the cub ? ''
`` The jungle alone know .
Toward the sunset , I believe , '' say Baloo .
`` We have think that thou wouldst know , Kaa . ''
`` I ?
How ?
I take them when they come in my way , but I do not hunt the Bandar-log , or frog -- or green scum on a water-hole , for that matter . ''
`` Up , Up !
Up , Up !
Hillo !
Illo !
Illo , look up , Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf Pack ! ''
Baloo look up to see where the voice come from , and there be Rann the Kite , sweep down with the sun shin on the upturned flange of his wing .
It be near Rann 's bedtime , but he have range all over the jungle look for the Bear and have miss him in the thick foliage .
`` What be it ? ''
say Baloo .
`` I have see Mowgli among the Bandar-log .
He bid me tell you .
I watch .
The Bandar-log have take him beyond the river to the monkey city -- to the Cold Lairs .
They may stay there for a night , or ten night , or an hour .
I have tell the bat to watch through the dark time .
That be my message .
Good hunting , all you below ! ''
`` Full gorge and a deep sleep to you , Rann , '' cry Bagheera .
`` I will remember thee in my next kill , and put aside the head for thee alone , O best of kite ! ''
`` It be nothing .
It be nothing .
The boy hold the Master Word .
I could have do no less , '' and Rann circle up again to his roost .
`` He have not forget to use his tongue , '' say Baloo with a chuckle of pride .
`` To think of one so young remember the Master Word for the bird too while he be be pull across tree ! ''
`` It be most firmly drive into him , '' say Bagheera .
`` But I be proud of him , and now we must go to the Cold Lairs . ''
They all know where that place be , but few of the Jungle People ever go there , because what they call the Cold Lairs be an old deserted city , lose and bury in the jungle , and beast seldom use a place that men have once use .
The wild boar will , but the hunting tribe do not .
Besides , the monkey live there as much a they could be say to live anywhere , and no self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it except in time of drought , when the half-ruined tank and reservoir hold a little water .
`` It be half a night 's journey -- at full speed , '' say Bagheera , and Baloo look very serious .
`` I will go as fast a I can , '' he say anxiously .
`` We dare not wait for thee .
Follow , Baloo .
We must go on the quick-foot -- Kaa and I. '' `` Feet or no foot , I can keep abreast of all thy four , '' say Kaa shortly .
Baloo make one effort to hurry , but have to sit down panting , and so they leave him to come on later , while Bagheera hurry forward , at the quick panther-canter .
Kaa say nothing , but , strive a Bagheera might , the huge Rock-python hold level with him .
When they come to a hill stream , Bagheera gain , because he bound across while Kaa swam , his head and two foot of his neck clear the water , but on level ground Kaa make up the distance .
`` By the Broken Lock that free me , '' say Bagheera , when twilight have fall , `` thou art no slow goer ! ''
`` I be hungry , '' say Kaa .
`` Besides , they call me speckle frog . ''
`` Worm -- earth-worm , and yellow to boot . ''
`` All one .
Let u go on , '' and Kaa seem to pour himself along the ground , find the short road with his steady eye , and keep to it .
In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People be not think of Mowgli 's friend at all .
They have bring the boy to the Lost City , and be very much please with themselves for the time .
Mowgli have never see an Indian city before , and though this be almost a heap of ruin it seem very wonderful and splendid .
Some king have build it long ago on a little hill .
You could still trace the stone causeway that lead up to the ruin gate where the last splinter of wood hung to the worn , rust hinge .
Trees have grow into and out of the wall ; the battlement be tumble down and decayed , and wild creeper hang out of the window of the tower on the wall in bushy hang clump .
A great roofless palace crown the hill , and the marble of the courtyard and the fountain be split , and stain with red and green , and the very cobblestone in the courtyard where the king 's elephant use to live have be thrust up and apart by grass and young tree .
From the palace you could see the row and row of roofless house that make up the city look like empty honeycomb fill with blackness ; the shapeless block of stone that have be an idol in the square where four road meet ; the pit and dimple at street corner where the public well once stand , and the shattered dome of temple with wild fig sprout on their side .
The monkey call the place their city , and pretend to despise the Jungle-People because they live in the forest .
And yet they never know what the building be make for nor how to use them .
They would sit in circle on the hall of the king 's council chamber , and scratch for flea and pretend to be men ; or they would run in and out of the roofless house and collect piece of plaster and old brick in a corner , and forget where they have hide them , and fight and cry in scuffle crowd , and then break off to play up and down the terrace of the king 's garden , where they would shake the rise tree and the orange in sport to see the fruit and flower fall .
They explore all the passage and dark tunnel in the palace and the hundred of little dark room , but they never remember what they have see and what they have not ; and so drifted about in one and two or crowd tell each other that they be do a men do .
They drink at the tank and make the water all muddy , and then they fight over it , and then they would all rush together in mob and shout : `` There be no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle a the Bandar-log . ''
Then all would begin again till they grow tire of the city and go back to the tree-tops , hop the Jungle-People would notice them .
Mowgli , who have be train under the Law of the Jungle , do not like or understand this kind of life .
The monkey drag him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon , and instead of go to sleep , a Mowgli would have do after a long journey , they join hand and dance about and sing their foolish song .
One of the monkey make a speech and tell his companion that Mowgli 's capture mark a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log , for Mowgli be go to show them how to weave stick and cane together a a protection against rain and cold .
Mowgli pick up some creeper and begin to work them in and out , and the monkey try to imitate ; but in a very few minute they lose interest and begin to pull their friend ' tail or jump up and down on all four , cough .
`` I wish to eat , '' say Mowgli .
`` I be a stranger in this part of the jungle .
Bring me food , or give me leave to hunt here . ''
Twenty or thirty monkey bound away to bring him nut and wild pawpaw .
But they fell to fight on the road , and it be too much trouble to go back with what be leave of the fruit .
Mowgli be sore and angry as well a hungry , and he roam through the empty city give the Strangers ' Hunting Call from time to time , but no one answer him , and Mowgli felt that he have reach a very bad place indeed .
`` All that Baloo have say about the Bandar-log be true , '' he think to himself .
`` They have no Law , no Hunting Call , and no leader -- nothing but foolish word and little pick thievish hand .
So if I be starve or kill here , it will be all my own fault .
But I must try to return to my own jungle .
Baloo will surely beat me , but that be good than chase silly rise leaf with the Bandar-log . ''
No sooner have he walk to the city wall than the monkey pull him back , tell him that he do not know how happy he be , and pinch him to make him grateful .
He set his teeth and say nothing , but go with the shout monkey to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoir that be half-full of rain water .
There be a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace , build for queen dead a hundred year ago .
The domed roof have half fall in and block up the underground passage from the palace by which the queen use to enter .
But the wall be make of screen of marble tracery -- beautiful milk-white fretwork , set with agate and cornelian and jasper and lapis lazuli , and a the moon come up behind the hill it shine through the open work , cast shadow on the ground like black velvet embroidery .
Sore , sleepy , and hungry a he be , Mowgli could not help laugh when the Bandar-log begin , twenty at a time , to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they be , and how foolish he be to wish to leave them .
`` We be great .
We be free .
We be wonderful .
We be the most wonderful people in all the jungle !
We all say so , and so it must be true , '' they shout .
`` Now a you be a new listener and can carry our word back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice u in future , we will tell you all about our most excellent self . ''
Mowgli make no objection , and the monkey gather by hundred and hundred on the terrace to listen to their own speaker sing the praise of the Bandar-log , and whenever a speaker stop for want of breath they would all shout together : `` This be true ; we all say so . ''
Mowgli nod and blink , and say `` Yes '' when they ask him a question , and his head spun with the noise .
`` Tabaqui the Jackal must have bite all these people , '' he say to himself , `` and now they have madness .
Certainly this be dewanee , the madness .
Do they never go to sleep ?
Now there be a cloud come to cover that moon .
If it be only a big enough cloud I might try to run away in the darkness .
But I be tired . ''
That same cloud be be watch by two good friend in the ruined ditch below the city wall , for Bagheera and Kaa , know well how dangerous the Monkey-People be in large number , do not wish to run any risk .
The monkey never fight unless they be a hundred to one , and few in the jungle care for those odds .
`` I will go to the west wall , '' Kaa whisper , `` and come down swiftly with the slope of the ground in my favor .
They will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundred , but -- '' `` I know it , '' say Bagheera .
`` Would that Baloo be here , but we must do what we can .
When that cloud cover the moon I shall go to the terrace .
They hold some sort of council there over the boy . ''
`` Good hunting , '' say Kaa grimly , and glide away to the west wall .
That happen to be the least ruined of any , and the big snake be delay awhile before he could find a way up the stone .
The cloud hide the moon , and a Mowgli wonder what would come next he hear Bagheera 's light foot on the terrace .
The Black Panther have race up the slope almost without a sound and be strike -- he know good than to waste time in biting -- right and leave among the monkey , who be seat round Mowgli in circle fifty and sixty deep .
There be a howl of fright and rage , and then a Bagheera trip on the roll kicking body beneath him , a monkey shout : `` There be only one here !
Kill him !
Kill . ''
A scuffle mass of monkey , biting , scratch , tear , and pulling , close over Bagheera , while five or six laid hold of Mowgli , drag him up the wall of the summerhouse and push him through the hole of the broken dome .
A man-trained boy would have be badly bruise , for the fall be a good fifteen foot , but Mowgli fell a Baloo have teach him to fall , and land on his foot .
`` Stay there , '' shout the monkey , `` till we have kill thy friend , and later we will play with thee -- if the Poison-People leave thee alive . ''
`` We be of one blood , ye and I , '' say Mowgli , quickly give the Snake 's Call .
He could hear rustle and hiss in the rubbish all round him and give the Call a second time , to make sure .
`` Even ssso !
Down hood all ! ''
say half a dozen low voice -LRB- every ruin in India become sooner or later a dwell place of snake , and the old summerhouse be alive with cobras -RRB- .
`` Stand still , Little Brother , for thy foot may do u harm . ''
Mowgli stand as quietly a he could , peer through the open work and listen to the furious din of the fight round the Black Panther -- the yell and chattering and scufflings , and Bagheera 's deep , hoarse cough a he back and buck and twisted and plunge under the heap of his enemy .
For the first time since he be bear , Bagheera be fight for his life .
`` Baloo must be at hand ; Bagheera would not have come alone , '' Mowgli think .
And then he call aloud : `` To the tank , Bagheera .
Roll to the water tank .
Roll and plunge !
Get to the water ! ''
Bagheera heard , and the cry that tell him Mowgli be safe give him new courage .
He work his way desperately , inch by inch , straight for the reservoir , halt in silence .
Then from the ruin wall near the jungle rise up the rumble war-shout of Baloo .
The old Bear have do his best , but he could not come before .
`` Bagheera , '' he shout , `` I be here .
I climb !
I haste !
Ahuwora !
The stone slip under my foot !
Wait my come , O most infamous Bandar-log ! ''
He pant up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkey , but he throw himself squarely on his haunch , and , spread out his forepaw , hug as many a he could hold , and then begin to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat , like the flip stroke of a paddle wheel .
A crash and a splash tell Mowgli that Bagheera have fight his way to the tank where the monkey could not follow .
The Panther lay gasp for breath , his head just out of the water , while the monkey stand three deep on the red step , dance up and down with rage , ready to spring upon him from all side if he come out to help Baloo .
It be then that Bagheera lift up his drip chin , and in despair give the Snake 's Call for protection -- `` We be of one blood , ye and I '' -- for he believe that Kaa have turn tail at the last minute .
Even Baloo , half smother under the monkey on the edge of the terrace , could not help chuckle a he hear the Black Panther ask for help .
Kaa have only just work his way over the west wall , land with a wrench that dislodge a cop stone into the ditch .
He have no intention of lose any advantage of the ground , and coil and uncoil himself once or twice , to be sure that every foot of his long body be in work order .
All that while the fight with Baloo go on , and the monkey yell in the tank round Bagheera , and Mang the Bat , fly to and fro , carry the news of the great battle over the jungle , till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpet , and , far away , scattered band of the Monkey-Folk woke and come leap along the tree-roads to help their comrade in the Cold Lairs , and the noise of the fight rouse all the day bird for mile round .
Then Kaa come straight , quickly , and anxious to kill .
The fighting strength of a python be in the drive blow of his head back by all the strength and weight of his body .
If you can imagine a lance , or a battering ram , or a hammer weigh nearly half a ton drive by a cool , quiet mind living in the handle of it , you can roughly imagine what Kaa be like when he fight .
A python four or five foot long can knock a man down if he hit him fairly in the chest , and Kaa be thirty foot long , a you know .
His first stroke be deliver into the heart of the crowd round Baloo .
It be send home with shut mouth in silence , and there be no need of a second .
The monkey scatter with cry of -- `` Kaa !
It be Kaa !
Run !
Run ! ''
Generations of monkey have be scar into good behavior by the story their elder tell them of Kaa , the night thief , who could slip along the branch as quietly a moss grows , and steal away the strong monkey that ever live ; of old Kaa , who could make himself look so like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the wise be deceive , till the branch catch them .
Kaa be everything that the monkey fear in the jungle , for none of them know the limit of his power , none of them could look him in the face , and none have ever come alive out of his hug .
And so they run , stammer with terror , to the wall and the roof of the house , and Baloo draw a deep breath of relief .
His fur be much thick than Bagheera 's , but he have suffer sorely in the fight .
Then Kaa open his mouth for the first time and speak one long hissing word , and the far-away monkey , hurry to the defense of the Cold Lairs , stay where they be , cower , till the loaded branch bent and crackle under them .
The monkey on the wall and the empty house stop their cry , and in the stillness that fell upon the city Mowgli hear Bagheera shake his wet side a he come up from the tank .
Then the clamor break out again .
The monkey leap high up the wall .
They cling around the neck of the big stone idol and shriek a they skip along the battlement , while Mowgli , dance in the summerhouse , put his eye to the screenwork and hoot owl-fashion between his front teeth , to show his derision and contempt .
`` Get the man-cub out of that trap ; I can do no more , '' Bagheera gasp .
`` Let u take the man-cub and go .
They may attack again . ''
`` They will not move till I order them .
Stay you sssso ! ''
Kaa hiss , and the city be silent once more .
`` I could not come before , Brother , but I think I hear thee call '' -- this be to Bagheera .
`` I -- I may have cry out in the battle , '' Bagheera answer .
`` Baloo , art thou hurt ?
`` I be not sure that they do not pull me into a hundred little bearlings , '' say Baloo , gravely shake one leg after the other .
`` Wow !
I be sore .
Kaa , we owe thee , I think , our life -- Bagheera and I. '' `` No matter .
Where be the manling ? ''
`` Here , in a trap .
I can not climb out , '' cry Mowgli .
The curve of the broken dome be above his head .
`` Take him away .
He dance like Mao the Peacock .
He will crush our young , '' say the cobra inside .
`` Hah ! ''
say Kaa with a chuckle , `` he have friend everywhere , this manling .
Stand back , manling .
And hide you , O Poison People .
I break down the wall . ''
Kaa look carefully till he find a discolored crack in the marble tracery show a weak spot , make two or three light tap with his head to get the distance , and then lift up six foot of his body clear of the ground , send home half a dozen full-power smashing blow , nose-first .
The screen-work broke and fell away in a cloud of dust and rubbish , and Mowgli leap through the opening and flung himself between Baloo and Bagheera -- an arm around each big neck .
`` Art thou hurt ? ''
say Baloo , hug him softly .
`` I be sore , hungry , and not a little bruised .
But , oh , they have handle ye grievously , my Brothers !
Ye bleed . ''
`` Others also , '' say Bagheera , lick his lip and look at the monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank .
`` It be nothing , it be nothing , if thou art safe , oh , my pride of all little frog ! ''
whimper Baloo .
`` Of that we shall judge later , '' say Bagheera , in a dry voice that Mowgli do not at all like .
`` But here be Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life .
Thank him accord to our custom , Mowgli . ''
Mowgli turn and saw the great Python 's head sway a foot above his own .
`` So this be the manling , '' say Kaa .
`` Very soft be his skin , and he be not unlike the Bandar-log .
Have a care , manling , that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly change my coat . ''
`` We be one blood , thou and I , '' Mowgli answer .
`` I take my life from thee tonight .
My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . ''
`` All thanks , Little Brother , '' say Kaa , though his eye twinkle .
`` And what may so bold a hunter kill ?
I ask that I may follow when next he go abroad . ''
`` I kill nothing , -- I be too little , -- but I drive goat toward such a can use them .
When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth .
I have some skill in these -LSB- he hold out his hand -RSB- , and if ever thou art in a trap , I may pay the debt which I owe to thee , to Bagheera , and to Baloo , here .
Good hunting to ye all , my master . ''
`` Well say , '' growl Baloo , for Mowgli have return thanks very prettily .
The Python drop his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli 's shoulder .
`` A brave heart and a courteous tongue , '' say he .
`` They shall carry thee far through the jungle , manling .
But now go hence quickly with thy friend .
Go and sleep , for the moon set , and what follow it be not well that thou shouldst see . ''
The moon be sink behind the hill and the line of tremble monkey huddle together on the wall and battlement look like rag shaky fringe of thing .
Baloo go down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera begin to put his fur in order , a Kaa glide out into the center of the terrace and bring his jaw together with a ring snap that draw all the monkey ' eye upon him .
`` The moon set , '' he say .
`` Is there yet light enough to see ? ''
From the wall come a moan like the wind in the tree-tops -- `` We see , O Kaa . ''
`` Good .
Begins now the dance -- the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa .
Sit still and watch . ''
He turn twice or thrice in a big circle , weave his head from right to leave .
Then he begin make loop and figure of eight with his body , and soft , oozy triangle that melt into square and five-sided figure , and coil mound , never rest , never hurrying , and never stop his low humming song .
It grow darker and darker , till at last the dragging , shift coil disappear , but they could hear the rustle of the scale .
Baloo and Bagheera stand still a stone , growl in their throat , their neck hair bristling , and Mowgli watch and wonder .
`` Bandar-log , '' say the voice of Kaa at last , `` can ye stir foot or hand without my order ?
Speak ! ''
`` Without thy order we can not stir foot or hand , O Kaa ! ''
`` Good !
Come all one pace nearer to me . ''
The line of the monkey sway forward helplessly , and Baloo and Bagheera take one stiff step forward with them .
`` Nearer ! ''
hiss Kaa , and they all move again .
Mowgli lay his hand on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away , and the two great beast start a though they have be wake from a dream .
`` Keep thy hand on my shoulder , '' Bagheera whisper .
`` Keep it there , or I must go back -- must go back to Kaa .
Aah ! ''
`` It be only old Kaa making circle on the dust , '' say Mowgli .
`` Let u go . ''
And the three slip off through a gap in the wall to the jungle .
`` Whoof ! ''
say Baloo , when he stand under the still tree again .
`` Never more will I make an ally of Kaa , '' and he shake himself all over .
`` He know more than we , '' say Bagheera , tremble .
`` In a little time , have I stay , I should have walk down his throat . ''
`` Many will walk by that road before the moon rise again , '' say Baloo .
`` He will have good hunting -- after his own fashion . ''
`` But what be the meaning of it all ? ''
say Mowgli , who do not know anything of a python 's power of fascination .
`` I saw no more than a big snake make foolish circle till the dark come .
And his nose be all sore .
Ho !
Ho ! ''
`` Mowgli , '' say Bagheera angrily , `` his nose be sore on thy account , a my ear and side and paw , and Baloo 's neck and shoulder be bite on thy account .
Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with pleasure for many day . ''
`` It be nothing , '' say Baloo ; `` we have the man-cub again . ''
`` True , but he have cost u heavily in time which might have be spend in good hunting , in wound , in hair -- I be half pluck along my back -- and last of all , in honor .
For , remember , Mowgli , I , who be the Black Panther , be force to call upon Kaa for protection , and Baloo and I be both make stupid a little bird by the Hunger Dance .
All this , man-cub , come of thy play with the Bandar-log . ''
`` True , it be true , '' say Mowgli sorrowfully .
`` I be an evil man-cub , and my stomach be sad in me . ''
`` Mf !
What say the Law of the Jungle , Baloo ? ''
Baloo do not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble , but he could not tamper with the Law , so he mumble : `` Sorrow never stays punishment .
But remember , Bagheera , he be very little . ''
`` I will remember .
But he have do mischief , and blow must be dealt now .
Mowgli , hast thou anything to say ? ''
`` Nothing .
I do wrong .
Baloo and thou be wound .
It be just . ''
Bagheera give him half a dozen love-taps from a panther 's point of view -LRB- they would hardly have wake one of his own cub -RRB- , but for a seven-year-old boy they amount to a severe a beating a you could wish to avoid .
When it be all over Mowgli sneeze , and pick himself up without a word .
`` Now , '' say Bagheera , `` jump on my back , Little Brother , and we will go home . ''
One of the beauty of Jungle Law be that punishment settle all score .
There be no nag afterward .
Mowgli lay his head down on Bagheera 's back and slept so deeply that he never wake when he be put down in the home-cave .
Road-Song of the Bandar-Log Here we go in a flung festoon , Half-way up to the jealous moon !
Do n't you envy our pranceful band ?
Do n't you wish you have extra hand ?
Would n't you like if your tail be -- so -- Curved in the shape of a Cupid 's bow ?
Now you 're angry , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hang down behind !
Here we sit in a branchy row , Thinking of beautiful thing we know ; Dreaming of deed that we mean to do , All complete , in a minute or two -- Something noble and wise and good , Done by merely wish we could .
We 've forget , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hang down behind !
All the talk we ever have hear Uttered by bat or beast or bird -- Hide or fin or scale or feather -- Jabber it quickly and all together !
Excellent !
Wonderful !
Once again !
Now we be talk just like men !
Let 's pretend we be ... never mind , Brother , thy tail hang down behind !
This be the way of the Monkey-kind .
Then join our leap line that scumfish through the pine , That rocket by where , light and high , the wild grape swing .
By the rubbish in our wake , and the noble noise we make , Be sure , be sure , we 're go to do some splendid thing !
`` Tiger !
Tiger ! ''
What of the hunting , hunter bold ?
Brother , the watch be long and cold .
What of the quarry ye go to kill ?
Brother , he crop in the jungle still .
Where be the power that make your pride ?
Brother , it ebb from my flank and side .
Where be the haste that ye hurry by ?
Brother , I go to my lair -- to die .
Now we must go back to the first tale .
When Mowgli leave the wolf 's cave after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock , he go down to the plow land where the villager live , but he would not stop there because it be too near to the jungle , and he know that he have make at least one bad enemy at the Council .
So he hurry on , keep to the rough road that run down the valley , and follow it at a steady jog-trot for nearly twenty mile , till he come to a country that he do not know .
The valley open out into a great plain dot over with rock and cut up by ravine .
At one end stand a little village , and at the other the thick jungle come down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds , and stop there a though it have be cut off with a hoe .
All over the plain , cattle and buffalo be graze , and when the little boy in charge of the herd saw Mowgli they shout and run away , and the yellow pariah dog that hang about every Indian village bark .
Mowgli walk on , for he be feel hungry , and when he come to the village gate he saw the big thorn-bush that be draw up before the gate at twilight , push to one side .
`` Umph ! ''
he say , for he have come across more than one such barricade in his night ramble after thing to eat .
`` So men be afraid of the People of the Jungle here also . ''
He sit down by the gate , and when a man come out he stand up , open his mouth , and point down it to show that he want food .
The man star , and run back up the one street of the village shout for the priest , who be a big , fat man dress in white , with a red and yellow mark on his forehead .
The priest come to the gate , and with him at least a hundred people , who star and talk and shout and point at Mowgli .
`` They have no manner , these Men Folk , '' say Mowgli to himself .
`` Only the gray ape would behave a they do . ''
So he throw back his long hair and frown at the crowd .
`` What be there to be afraid of ? ''
say the priest .
`` Look at the mark on his arm and leg .
They be the bite of wolf .
He be but a wolf-child run away from the jungle . ''
Of course , in play together , the cub have often nip Mowgli hard than they intend , and there be white scar all over his arm and leg .
But he would have be the last person in the world to call these bite , for he know what real biting meant .
`` Arre !
Arre ! ''
say two or three woman together .
`` To be bite by wolf , poor child !
He be a handsome boy .
He have eye like red fire .
By my honor , Messua , he be not unlike thy boy that be take by the tiger . ''
`` Let me look , '' say a woman with heavy copper ring on her wrist and ankle , and she peer at Mowgli under the palm of her hand .
`` Indeed he be not .
He be thin , but he have the very look of my boy . ''
The priest be a clever man , and he know that Messua be wife to the rich villager in the place .
So he look up at the sky for a minute and say solemnly : `` What the jungle have take the jungle have restore .
Take the boy into thy house , my sister , and forget not to honor the priest who see so far into the life of men . ''
`` By the Bull that buy me , '' say Mowgli to himself , `` but all this talk be like another looking-over by the Pack !
Well , if I be a man , a man I must become . ''
The crowd part a the woman beckon Mowgli to her hut , where there be a red lacquered bedstead , a great earthen grain chest with funny raise pattern on it , half a dozen copper cook pot , an image of a Hindu god in a little alcove , and on the wall a real look glass , such a they sell at the country fair .
She give him a long drink of milk and some bread , and then she lay her hand on his head and look into his eye ; for she think perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger have take him .
So she say , `` Nathoo , O Nathoo ! ''
Mowgli do not show that he know the name .
`` Dost thou not remember the day when I give thee thy new shoe ? ''
She touch his foot , and it be almost as hard a horn .
`` No , '' she say sorrowfully , `` those foot have never wear shoe , but thou art very like my Nathoo , and thou shalt be my son . ''
Mowgli be uneasy , because he have never be under a roof before .
But a he look at the thatch , he saw that he could tear it out any time if he want to get away , and that the window have no fastening .
`` What be the good of a man , '' he say to himself at last , `` if he do not understand man 's talk ?
Now I be a silly and dumb a a man would be with u in the jungle .
I must speak their talk . ''
It be not for fun that he have learn while he be with the wolf to imitate the challenge of buck in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig .
So , as soon a Messua pronounce a word Mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly , and before dark he have learn the name of many thing in the hut .
There be a difficulty at bedtime , because Mowgli would not sleep under anything that look so like a panther trap a that hut , and when they shut the door he go through the window .
`` Give him his will , '' say Messua 's husband .
`` Remember he can never till now have sleep on a bed .
If he be indeed send in the place of our son he will not run away . ''
So Mowgli stretch himself in some long , clean grass at the edge of the field , but before he have close his eye a soft gray nose poke him under the chin .
`` Phew ! ''
say Gray Brother -LRB- he be the eldest of Mother Wolf 's cub -RRB- .
`` This be a poor reward for follow thee twenty mile .
Thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle -- altogether like a man already .
Wake , Little Brother ; I bring news . ''
`` Are all well in the jungle ? ''
say Mowgli , hug him .
`` All except the wolf that be burn with the Red Flower .
Now , listen .
Shere Khan have go away to hunt far off till his coat grow again , for he be badly sing .
When he return he swear that he will lay thy bone in the Waingunga . ''
`` There be two word to that .
I also have make a little promise .
But news be always good .
I be tired to-night , -- very tired with new thing , Gray Brother , -- but bring me the news always . ''
`` Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf ?
Men will not make thee forget ? ''
say Gray Brother anxiously .
`` Never .
I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave .
But also I will always remember that I have be cast out of the Pack . ''
`` And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack .
Men be only men , Little Brother , and their talk be like the talk of frog in a pond .
When I come down here again , I will wait for thee in the bamboo at the edge of the grazing-ground . ''
For three month after that night Mowgli hardly ever leave the village gate , he be so busy learn the way and custom of men .
First he have to wear a cloth round him , which annoy him horribly ; and then he have to learn about money , which he do not in the least understand , and about plow , of which he do not see the use .
Then the little child in the village make him very angry .
Luckily , the Law of the Jungle have teach him to keep his temper , for in the jungle life and food depend on keep your temper ; but when they make fun of him because he would not play game or fly kite , or because he mispronounce some word , only the knowledge that it be unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cub keep him from pick them up and break them in two .
He do not know his own strength in the least .
In the jungle he know he be weak compare with the beast , but in the village people say that he be as strong a a bull .
And Mowgli have not the faint idea of the difference that caste make between man and man .
When the potter 's donkey slip in the clay pit , Mowgli haul it out by the tail , and help to stack the pot for their journey to the market at Khanhiwara .
That be very shocking , too , for the potter be a low-caste man , and his donkey be bad .
When the priest scold him , Mowgli threaten to put him on the donkey too , and the priest tell Messua 's husband that Mowgli have well be set to work as soon a possible ; and the village head-man tell Mowgli that he would have to go out with the buffalo next day , and herd them while they graze .
No one be more pleased than Mowgli ; and that night , because he have be appoint a servant of the village , a it be , he go off to a circle that meet every evening on a masonry platform under a great fig-tree .
It be the village club , and the head-man and the watchman and the barber , who know all the gossip of the village , and old Buldeo , the village hunter , who have a Tower musket , meet and smoke .
The monkey sit and talk in the upper branch , and there be a hole under the platform where a cobra live , and he have his little platter of milk every night because he be sacred ; and the old men sit around the tree and talk , and pull at the big huqas -LRB- the water-pipes -RRB- till far into the night .
They tell wonderful tale of god and men and ghost ; and Buldeo tell even more wonderful one of the way of beast in the jungle , till the eye of the child sit outside the circle bulge out of their head .
Most of the tale be about animal , for the jungle be always at their door .
The deer and the wild pig grub up their crop , and now and again the tiger carry off a man at twilight , within sight of the village gate .
Mowgli , who naturally know something about what they be talk of , have to cover his face not to show that he be laugh , while Buldeo , the Tower musket across his knee , climb on from one wonderful story to another , and Mowgli 's shoulder shake .
Buldeo be explain how the tiger that have carry away Messua 's son be a ghost-tiger , and his body be inhabit by the ghost of a wicked , old money-lender , who have die some year ago .
`` And I know that this be true , '' he say , `` because Purun Dass always limp from the blow that he get in a riot when his account book be burn , and the tiger that I speak of he limp , too , for the track of his pad be unequal . ''
`` True , true , that must be the truth , '' say the gray-beards , nod together .
`` Are all these tale such cobweb and moon talk ? ''
say Mowgli .
`` That tiger limp because he be bear lame , a everyone know .
To talk of the soul of a money-lender in a beast that never have the courage of a jackal be child 's talk . ''
Buldeo be speechless with surprise for a moment , and the head-man stared .
`` Oho !
It be the jungle brat , be it ? ''
say Buldeo .
`` If thou art so wise , good bring his hide to Khanhiwara , for the Government have set a hundred rupee on his life .
Better still , talk not when thy elder speak . ''
Mowgli rise to go .
`` All the evening I have lie here listen , '' he call back over his shoulder , `` and , except once or twice , Buldeo have not say one word of truth concern the jungle , which be at his very door .
How , then , shall I believe the tale of ghost and god and goblin which he say he have see ? ''
`` It be full time that boy go to herding , '' say the head-man , while Buldeo puffed and snort at Mowgli 's impertinence .
The custom of most Indian village be for a few boy to take the cattle and buffalo out to graze in the early morning , and bring them back at night .
The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be bang and bully and shout at by child that hardly come up to their nose .
So long a the boy keep with the herd they be safe , for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle .
But if they straggle to pick flower or hunt lizard , they be sometimes carry off .
Mowgli go through the village street in the dawn , sit on the back of Rama , the great herd bull .
The slaty-blue buffalo , with their long , backward-sweeping horn and savage eye , rise out their byre , one by one , and follow him , and Mowgli make it very clear to the child with him that he be the master .
He beat the buffalo with a long , polished bamboo , and tell Kamya , one of the boy , to graze the cattle by themselves , while he go on with the buffalo , and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd .
An Indian grazing ground be all rock and scrub and tussock and little ravine , among which the herd scatter and disappear .
The buffalo generally keep to the pool and muddy place , where they lie wallow or bask in the warm mud for hour .
Mowgli drive them on to the edge of the plain where the Waingunga come out of the jungle ; then he drop from Rama 's neck , trot off to a bamboo clump , and find Gray Brother .
`` Ah , '' say Gray Brother , `` I have wait here very many day .
What be the meaning of this cattle-herding work ? ''
`` It be an order , '' say Mowgli .
`` I be a village herd for a while .
What news of Shere Khan ? ''
`` He have come back to this country , and have wait here a long time for thee .
Now he have go off again , for the game be scarce .
But he mean to kill thee . ''
`` Very good , '' say Mowgli .
`` So long a he be away do thou or one of the four brother sit on that rock , so that I can see thee a I come out of the village .
When he come back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain .
We need not walk into Shere Khan 's mouth . ''
Then Mowgli pick out a shady place , and lay down and sleep while the buffalo graze round him .
Herding in India be one of the lazy thing in the world .
The cattle move and crunch , and lie down , and move on again , and they do not even low .
They only grunt , and the buffalo very seldom say anything , but get down into the muddy pool one after another , and work their way into the mud till only their nose and star china-blue eye show above the surface , and then they lie like log .
The sun make the rock dance in the heat , and the herd child hear one kite -LRB- never any more -RRB- whistling almost out of sight overhead , and they know that if they die , or a cow die , that kite would sweep down , and the next kite mile away would see him drop and follow , and the next , and the next , and almost before they be dead there would be a score of hungry kite come out of nowhere .
Then they sleep and wake and sleep again , and weave little basket of dried grass and put grasshopper in them ; or catch two pray mantis and make them fight ; or string a necklace of red and black jungle nut ; or watch a lizard basking on a rock , or a snake hunt a frog near the wallow .
Then they sing long , long song with odd native quaver at the end of them , and the day seem long than most people 's whole life , and perhaps they make a mud castle with mud figure of men and horse and buffalo , and put reed into the men 's hand , and pretend that they be king and the figure be their army , or that they be god to be worship .
Then even come and the child call , and the buffalo lumber up out of the sticky mud with noise like gunshot go off one after the other , and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkling village light .
Day after day Mowgli would lead the buffalo out to their wallow , and day after day he would see Gray Brother 's back a mile and a half away across the plain -LRB- so he know that Shere Khan have not come back -RRB- , and day after day he would lie on the grass listening to the noise round him , and dreaming of old day in the jungle .
If Shere Khan have make a false step with his lame paw up in the jungle by the Waingunga , Mowgli would have hear him in those long , still morning .
At last a day come when he do not see Gray Brother at the signal place , and he laugh and head the buffalo for the ravine by the dhk tree , which be all cover with golden-red flower .
There sat Gray Brother , every bristle on his back lift .
`` He have hide for a month to throw thee off thy guard .
He cross the range last night with Tabaqui , hot-foot on thy trail , '' say the Wolf , panting .
Mowgli frown .
`` I be not afraid of Shere Khan , but Tabaqui be very cunning . ''
`` Have no fear , '' say Gray Brother , lick his lip a little .
`` I meet Tabaqui in the dawn .
Now he be tell all his wisdom to the kite , but he tell me everything before I break his back .
Shere Khan 's plan be to wait for thee at the village gate this evening -- for thee and for no one else .
He be lie up now , in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga . ''
`` Has he eaten today , or do he hunt empty ? ''
say Mowgli , for the answer meant life and death to him .
`` He kill at dawn , -- a pig , -- and he have drink too .
Remember , Shere Khan could never fast , even for the sake of revenge . ''
`` Oh !
Fool , fool !
What a cub 's cub it be !
Eaten and drink too , and he think that I shall wait till he have sleep !
Now , where do he lie up ?
If there be but ten of u we might pull him down a he lie .
These buffalo will not charge unless they wind him , and I can not speak their language .
Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it ? ''
`` He swim far down the Waingunga to cut that off , '' say Gray Brother .
`` Tabaqui tell him that , I know .
He would never have think of it alone . ''
Mowgli stand with his finger in his mouth , thinking .
`` The big ravine of the Waingunga .
That open out on the plain not half a mile from here .
I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down -- but he would slink out at the foot .
We must block that end .
Gray Brother , canst thou cut the herd in two for me ? ''
`` Not I , perhaps -- but I have bring a wise helper . ''
Gray Brother trot off and drop into a hole .
Then there lift up a huge gray head that Mowgli know well , and the hot air be fill with the most desolate cry of all the jungle -- the hunt howl of a wolf at midday .
`` Akela !
Akela ! ''
say Mowgli , clap his hand .
`` I might have know that thou wouldst not forget me .
We have a big work in hand .
Cut the herd in two , Akela .
Keep the cow and calve together , and the bull and the plow buffalo by themselves . ''
The two wolf run , lady ' - chain fashion , in and out of the herd , which snort and throw up it head , and separate into two clump .
In one , the cow-buffaloes stand with their calf in the center , and glare and paw , ready , if a wolf would only stay still , to charge down and trample the life out of him .
In the other , the bull and the young bull snort and stamp , but though they look more impose they be much less dangerous , for they have no calf to protect .
No six men could have divide the herd so neatly .
`` What order ! ''
pant Akela .
`` They be try to join again . ''
Mowgli slip on to Rama 's back .
`` Drive the bull away to the left , Akela .
Gray Brother , when we be go , hold the cow together , and drive them into the foot of the ravine . ''
`` How far ? ''
say Gray Brother , pant and snap .
`` Till the side be high than Shere Khan can jump , '' shout Mowgli .
`` Keep them there till we come down . ''
The bull sweep off a Akela bay , and Gray Brother stop in front of the cow .
They charge down on him , and he run just before them to the foot of the ravine , a Akela drive the bull far to the left .
`` Well do !
Another charge and they be fairly start .
Careful , now -- careful , Akela .
A snap too much and the bull will charge .
Hujah !
This be wild work than drive black-buck .
Didst thou think these creature could move so swiftly ? ''
Mowgli call .
`` I have -- have hunt these too in my time , '' gasp Akela in the dust .
`` Shall I turn them into the jungle ? ''
`` Ay !
Turn .
Swiftly turn them !
Rama be mad with rage .
Oh , if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day . ''
The bull be turn , to the right this time , and crash into the stand thicket .
The other herd child , watch with the cattle half a mile away , hurry to the village as fast a their leg could carry them , cry that the buffalo have go mad and run away .
But Mowgli 's plan be simple enough .
All he want to do be to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine , and then take the bull down it and catch Shere Khan between the bull and the cow ; for he know that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the side of the ravine .
He be soothe the buffalo now by voice , and Akela have drop far to the rear , only whimper once or twice to hurry the rear-guard .
It be a long , long circle , for they do not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning .
At last Mowgli round up the bewilder herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that slop steeply down to the ravine itself .
From that height you could see across the top of the tree down to the plain below ; but what Mowgli look at be the side of the ravine , and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they run nearly straight up and down , while the vine and creeper that hang over them would give no foothold to a tiger who want to get out .
`` Let them breathe , Akela , '' he say , hold up his hand .
`` They have not wind him yet .
Let them breathe .
I must tell Shere Khan who come .
We have him in the trap . ''
He put his hand to his mouth and shout down the ravine -- it be almost like shout down a tunnel -- and the echo jump from rock to rock .
After a long time there come back the drawling , sleepy snarl of a full-fed tiger just waken .
`` Who call ? ''
say Shere Khan , and a splendid peacock flutter up out of the ravine screeching .
`` I , Mowgli .
Cattle thief , it be time to come to the Council Rock !
Down -- hurry them down , Akela !
Down , Rama , down ! ''
The herd pause for an instant at the edge of the slope , but Akela give tongue in the full hunting-yell , and they pitch over one after the other , just a steamer shoot rapid , the sand and stone spurt up round them .
Once start , there be no chance of stop , and before they be fairly in the bed of the ravine Rama wind Shere Khan and bellow .
`` Ha !
Ha ! ''
say Mowgli , on his back .
`` Now thou knowest ! ''
and the torrent of black horn , foam muzzle , and star eye whirl down the ravine just a boulder go down in floodtime ; the weaker buffalo be shoulder out to the side of the ravine where they tear through the creeper .
They know what the business be before them -- the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand .
Shere Khan hear the thunder of their hoof , pick himself up , and lumber down the ravine , look from side to side for some way of escape , but the wall of the ravine be straight and he have to hold on , heavy with his dinner and his drink , willing to do anything rather than fight .
The herd splash through the pool he have just leave , bellow till the narrow cut rang .
Mowgli hear an answer bellow from the foot of the ravine , saw Shere Khan turn -LRB- the tiger know if the bad come to the bad it be well to meet the bull than the cow with their calf -RRB- , and then Rama trip , stumble , and go on again over something soft , and , with the bull at his heel , crash full into the other herd , while the weaker buffalo be lift clean off their foot by the shock of the meeting .
That charge carry both herd out into the plain , gore and stamp and snort .
Mowgli watch his time , and slip off Rama 's neck , lay about him right and leave with his stick .
`` Quick , Akela !
Break them up .
Scatter them , or they will be fight one another .
Drive them away , Akela .
Hai , Rama !
Hai , hai , hai !
my child .
Softly now , softly !
It be all over . ''
Akela and Gray Brother run to and fro nip the buffalo ' leg , and though the herd wheel once to charge up the ravine again , Mowgli manage to turn Rama , and the others follow him to the wallow .
Shere Khan need no more trampling .
He be dead , and the kite be come for him already .
`` Brothers , that be a dog 's death , '' say Mowgli , feel for the knife he always carry in a sheath round his neck now that he live with men .
`` But he would never have show fight .
His hide will look well on the Council Rock .
We must get to work swiftly . ''
A boy train among men would never have dream of skin a ten-foot tiger alone , but Mowgli know good than anyone else how an animal 's skin be fit on , and how it can be take off .
But it be hard work , and Mowgli slash and tore and grunt for an hour , while the wolf loll out their tongue , or come forward and tug a he order them .
Presently a hand fell on his shoulder , and look up he saw Buldeo with the Tower musket .
The child have tell the village about the buffalo stampede , and Buldeo go out angrily , only too anxious to correct Mowgli for not take well care of the herd .
The wolf drop out of sight as soon a they saw the man come .
`` What be this folly ? ''
say Buldeo angrily .
`` To think that thou canst skin a tiger !
Where do the buffalo kill him ?
It be the Lame Tiger too , and there be a hundred rupee on his head .
Well , well , we will overlook thy let the herd run off , and perhaps I will give thee one of the rupee of the reward when I have take the skin to Khanhiwara . ''
He fumble in his waist cloth for flint and steel , and stoop down to singe Shere Khan 's whisker .
Most native hunter always singe a tiger 's whisker to prevent his ghost from haunt them .
`` Hum ! ''
say Mowgli , half to himself a he rip back the skin of a forepaw .
`` So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the reward , and perhaps give me one rupee ?
Now it be in my mind that I need the skin for my own use .
Heh !
Old man , take away that fire ! ''
`` What talk be this to the chief hunter of the village ?
Thy luck and the stupidity of thy buffalo have help thee to this kill .
The tiger have just feed , or he would have go twenty mile by this time .
Thou canst not even skin him properly , little beggar brat , and forsooth I , Buldeo , must be tell not to singe his whisker .
Mowgli , I will not give thee one anna of the reward , but only a very big beating .
Leave the carcass ! ''
`` By the Bull that buy me , '' say Mowgli , who be try to get at the shoulder , `` must I stay babble to an old ape all noon ?
Here , Akela , this man plague me . ''
Buldeo , who be still stoop over Shere Khan 's head , find himself sprawl on the grass , with a gray wolf stand over him , while Mowgli go on skinning a though he be alone in all India .
`` Ye-es , '' he say , between his teeth .
`` Thou art altogether right , Buldeo .
Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward .
There be an old war between this lame tiger and myself -- a very old war , and -- I have win . ''
To do Buldeo justice , if he have be ten year younger he would have take his chance with Akela have he meet the wolf in the wood , but a wolf who obey the order of this boy who have private war with man-eating tiger be not a common animal .
It be sorcery , magic of the bad kind , think Buldeo , and he wonder whether the amulet round his neck would protect him .
He lay as still a still , expect every minute to see Mowgli turn into a tiger too .
`` Maharaj !
Great King , '' he say at last in a husky whisper .
`` Yes , '' say Mowgli , without turn his head , chuckle a little .
`` I be an old man .
I do not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy .
May I rise up and go away , or will thy servant tear me to piece ? ''
`` Go , and peace go with thee .
Only , another time do not meddle with my game .
Let him go , Akela . ''
Buldeo hobble away to the village as fast a he could , look back over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into something terrible .
When he get to the village he tell a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that make the priest look very grave .
Mowgli go on with his work , but it be nearly twilight before he and the wolf have draw the great gay skin clear of the body .
`` Now we must hide this and take the buffalo home !
Help me to herd them , Akela . ''
The herd round up in the misty twilight , and when they get near the village Mowgli saw light , and hear the conch and bell in the temple blowing and banging .
Half the village seem to be wait for him by the gate .
`` That be because I have kill Shere Khan , '' he say to himself .
But a shower of stone whistle about his ear , and the villager shout : `` Sorcerer !
Wolf 's brat !
Jungle demon !
Go away !
Get hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again .
Shoot , Buldeo , shoot ! ''
The old Tower musket go off with a bang , and a young buffalo bellow in pain .
`` More sorcery ! ''
shout the villager .
`` He can turn bullet .
Buldeo , that be thy buffalo . ''
`` Now what be this ? ''
say Mowgli , bewilder , a the stone fly thicker .
`` They be not unlike the Pack , these brother of thine , '' say Akela , sit down composedly .
`` It be in my head that , if bullet mean anything , they would cast thee out . ''
`` Wolf !
Wolf 's cub !
Go away ! ''
shout the priest , wave a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant .
`` Again ?
Last time it be because I be a man .
This time it be because I be a wolf .
Let u go , Akela . ''
A woman -- it be Messua -- run across to the herd , and cry : `` Oh , my son , my son !
They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will .
I do not believe , but go away or they will kill thee .
Buldeo say thou art a wizard , but I know thou hast avenge Nathoo 's death . ''
`` Come back , Messua ! ''
shout the crowd .
`` Come back , or we will stone thee . ''
Mowgli laugh a little short ugly laugh , for a stone have hit him in the mouth .
`` Run back , Messua .
This be one of the foolish tale they tell under the big tree at dusk .
I have at least pay for thy son 's life .
Farewell ; and run quickly , for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbat .
I be no wizard , Messua .
Farewell ! ''
`` Now , once more , Akela , '' he cry .
`` Bring the herd in . ''
The buffalo be anxious enough to get to the village .
They hardly need Akela 's yell , but charge through the gate like a whirlwind , scatter the crowd right and leave .
`` Keep count ! ''
shout Mowgli scornfully .
`` It may be that I have steal one of them .
Keep count , for I will do your herd no more .
Fare you well , child of men , and thank Messua that I do not come in with my wolf and hunt you up and down your street . ''
He turn on his heel and walk away with the Lone Wolf , and a he look up at the star he felt happy .
`` No more sleeping in trap for me , Akela .
Let u get Shere Khan 's skin and go away .
No , we will not hurt the village , for Messua be kind to me . ''
When the moon rise over the plain , make it look all milky , the horrified villager saw Mowgli , with two wolf at his heel and a bundle on his head , trot across at the steady wolf 's trot that eat up the long mile like fire .
Then they bang the temple bell and blow the conch louder than ever .
And Messua cry , and Buldeo embroider the story of his adventure in the jungle , till he end by say that Akela stand up on his hind leg and talk like a man .
The moon be just go down when Mowgli and the two wolf come to the hill of the Council Rock , and they stop at Mother Wolf 's cave .
`` They have cast me out from the Man-Pack , Mother , '' shout Mowgli , `` but I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word . ''
Mother Wolf walk stiffly from the cave with the cub behind her , and her eye glow a she saw the skin .
`` I tell him on that day , when he cram his head and shoulder into this cave , hunt for thy life , Little Frog -- I tell him that the hunter would be the hunt .
It be well do . ''
`` Little Brother , it be well do , '' say a deep voice in the thicket .
`` We be lonely in the jungle without thee , '' and Bagheera come run to Mowgli 's bare foot .
They clamber up the Council Rock together , and Mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where Akela use to sit , and peg it down with four sliver of bamboo , and Akela lay down upon it , and call the old call to the Council , `` Look -- look well , O Wolves , '' exactly a he have call when Mowgli be first bring there .
Ever since Akela have be depose , the Pack have be without a leader , hunt and fight at their own pleasure .
But they answer the call from habit ; and some of them be lame from the trap they have fall into , and some limp from shot wound , and some be mangy from eat bad food , and many be miss .
But they come to the Council Rock , all that be leave of them , and saw Shere Khan 's striped hide on the rock , and the huge claw dangle at the end of the empty dangling foot .
It be then that Mowgli make up a song that come up into his throat all by itself , and he shout it aloud , leap up and down on the rattling skin , and beat time with his heel till he have no more breath leave , while Gray Brother and Akela howl between the verse .
`` Look well , O Wolves .
Have I keep my word ? ''
say Mowgli .
And the wolf bay `` Yes , '' and one tattered wolf howl : `` Lead u again , O Akela .
Lead u again , O Man-cub , for we be sick of this lawlessness , and we would be the Free People once more . ''
`` Nay , '' purr Bagheera , `` that may not be .
When ye be full-fed , the madness may come upon you again .
Not for nothing be ye call the Free People .
Ye fought for freedom , and it be yours .
Eat it , O Wolves . ''
`` Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out , '' say Mowgli .
`` Now I will hunt alone in the jungle . ''
`` And we will hunt with thee , '' say the four cub .
So Mowgli go away and hunt with the four cub in the jungle from that day on .
But he be not always alone , because , year afterward , he become a man and marry .
But that be a story for grown-ups .
Mowgli 's Song THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE DANCED ON SHERE KHAN 'S HIDE The Song of Mowgli -- I , Mowgli , be sing .
Let the jungle listen to the thing I have do .
Shere Khan say he would kill -- would kill !
At the gate in the twilight he would kill Mowgli , the Frog !
He ate and he drink .
Drink deep , Shere Khan , for when wilt thou drink again ?
Sleep and dream of the kill .
I be alone on the grazing-grounds .
Gray Brother , come to me !
Come to me , Lone Wolf , for there be big game afoot !
Bring up the great bull buffalo , the blue-skinned herd bull with the angry eye .
Drive them to and fro a I order .
Sleepest thou still , Shere Khan ?
Wake , oh , wake !
Here come I , and the bull be behind .
Rama , the King of the Buffaloes , stamp with his foot .
Waters of the Waingunga , whither go Shere Khan ?
He be not Ikki to dig hole , nor Mao , the Peacock , that he should fly .
He be not Mang the Bat , to hang in the branch .
Little bamboo that creak together , tell me where he run ?
Ow !
He be there .
Ahoo !
He be there .
Under the foot of Rama lie the Lame One !
Up , Shere Khan !
Up and kill !
Here be meat ; break the neck of the bull !
Hsh !
He be asleep .
We will not wake him , for his strength be very great .
The kite have come down to see it .
The black ant have come up to know it .
There be a great assembly in his honor .
Alala !
I have no cloth to wrap me .
The kite will see that I be naked .
I be ashamed to meet all these people .
Lend me thy coat , Shere Khan .
Lend me thy gay strip coat that I may go to the Council Rock .
By the Bull that buy me I make a promise -- a little promise .
Only thy coat be lack before I keep my word .
With the knife , with the knife that men use , with the knife of the hunter , I will stoop down for my gift .
Waters of the Waingunga , Shere Khan give me his coat for the love that he bear me .
Pull , Gray Brother !
Pull , Akela !
Heavy be the hide of Shere Khan .
The Man Pack be angry .
They throw stone and talk child 's talk .
My mouth be bleed .
Let me run away .
Through the night , through the hot night , run swiftly with me , my brother .
We will leave the light of the village and go to the low moon .
Waters of the Waingunga , the Man-Pack have cast me out .
I do them no harm , but they be afraid of me .
Why ?
Wolf Pack , ye have cast me out too .
The jungle be shut to me and the village gate be shut .
Why ?
As Mang fly between the beast and bird , so fly I between the village and the jungle .
Why ?
I dance on the hide of Shere Khan , but my heart be very heavy .
My mouth be cut and wound with the stone from the village , but my heart be very light , because I have come back to the jungle .
Why ?
These two thing fight together in me a the snake fight in the spring .
The water come out of my eye ; yet I laugh while it fall .
Why ?
I be two Mowglis , but the hide of Shere Khan be under my foot .
All the jungle know that I have kill Shere Khan .
Look -- look well , O Wolves !
Ahae !
My heart be heavy with the thing that I do not understand .
The White Seal Oh !
hush thee , my baby , the night be behind u , And black be the water that sparkle so green .
The moon , o'er the comber , look downward to find u At rest in the hollow that rustle between .
Where billow meet billow , then soft be thy pillow , Ah , weary wee flipperling , curl at thy ease !
The storm shall not wake thee , nor shark overtake thee , Asleep in the arm of the slow-swinging sea !
Seal Lullaby All these thing happen several year ago at a place call Novastoshnah , or North East Point , on the Island of St. Paul , away and away in the Bering Sea .
Limmershin , the Winter Wren , tell me the tale when he be blow on to the rigging of a steamer go to Japan , and I take him down into my cabin and warm and feed him for a couple of day till he be fit to fly back to St. Paul 's again .
Limmershin be a very quaint little bird , but he know how to tell the truth .
Nobody come to Novastoshnah except on business , and the only people who have regular business there be the seal .
They come in the summer month by hundred and hundred of thousand out of the cold gray sea .
For Novastoshnah Beach have the fine accommodation for seal of any place in all the world .
Sea Catch know that , and every spring would swim from whatever place he happen to be in -- would swim like a torpedo-boat straight for Novastoshnah and spend a month fight with his companion for a good place on the rock , a close to the sea a possible .
Sea Catch be fifteen year old , a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulder , and long , wicked dog teeth .
When he heave himself up on his front flipper he stand more than four foot clear of the ground , and his weight , if anyone have be bold enough to weigh him , be nearly seven hundred pound .
He be scar all over with the mark of savage fight , but he be always ready for just one fight more .
He would put his head on one side , a though he be afraid to look his enemy in the face ; then he would shoot it out like lightning , and when the big teeth be firmly fix on the other seal 's neck , the other seal might get away if he could , but Sea Catch would not help him .
Yet Sea Catch never chase a beaten seal , for that be against the Rules of the Beach .
He only want room by the sea for his nursery .
But a there be forty or fifty thousand other seal hunt for the same thing each spring , the whistling , bellowing , roaring , and blow on the beach be something frightful .
From a little hill call Hutchinson 's Hill , you could look over three and a half mile of ground cover with fighting seal ; and the surf be dot all over with the head of seal hurry to land and begin their share of the fighting .
They fight in the breaker , they fight in the sand , and they fight on the smooth-worn basalt rock of the nursery , for they be just a stupid and unaccommodating a men .
Their wife never come to the island until late in May or early in June , for they do not care to be tear to piece ; and the young two - , three - , and four-year-old seal who have not begin housekeep go inland about half a mile through the rank of the fighter and play about on the sand dune in drove and legion , and rub off every single green thing that grow .
They be call the holluschickie -- the bachelor -- and there be perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone .
Sea Catch have just finish his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah , his soft , sleek , gentle-eyed wife , come up out of the sea , and he catch her by the scruff of the neck and dump her down on his reservation , say gruffly : `` Late a usual .
Where have you be ? ''
It be not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four month he stay on the beach , and so his temper be generally bad .
Matkah know good than to answer back .
She look round and cooed : `` How thoughtful of you .
You 've take the old place again . ''
`` I should think I have , '' say Sea Catch .
`` Look at me ! ''
He be scratch and bleed in twenty place ; one eye be almost out , and his side be tear to ribbon .
`` Oh , you men , you men ! ''
Matkah say , fan herself with her hind flipper .
`` Why ca n't you be sensible and settle your place quietly ?
You look a though you have be fight with the Killer Whale . ''
`` I have n't be do anything but fight since the middle of May .
The beach be disgracefully crowd this season .
I 've meet at least a hundred seal from Lukannon Beach , house hunting .
Why ca n't people stay where they belong ? ''
`` I 've often think we should be much happy if we haul out at Otter Island instead of this crowded place , '' say Matkah .
`` Bah !
Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island .
If we go there they would say we be afraid .
We must preserve appearance , my dear . ''
Sea Catch sink his head proudly between his fat shoulder and pretend to go to sleep for a few minute , but all the time he be keep a sharp lookout for a fight .
Now that all the seal and their wife be on the land , you could hear their clamor mile out to sea above the loud gale .
At the low counting there be over a million seal on the beach -- old seal , mother seal , tiny baby , and holluschickie , fight , scuffle , bleating , crawling , and play together -- go down to the sea and come up from it in gang and regiment , lie over every foot of ground as far a the eye could reach , and skirmish about in brigade through the fog .
It be nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah , except when the sun come out and make everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while .
Kotick , Matkah 's baby , be bear in the middle of that confusion , and he be all head and shoulder , with pale , watery blue eye , a tiny seal must be , but there be something about his coat that make his mother look at him very closely .
`` Sea Catch , '' she say , at last , `` our baby 's go to be white ! ''
`` Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed ! ''
snort Sea Catch .
`` There never have be such a thing in the world a a white seal . ''
`` I ca n't help that , '' say Matkah ; `` there 's go to be now . ''
And she sing the low , croon seal song that all the mother seal sing to their baby : You must n't swim till you 're six week old , Or your head will be sink by your heel ; And summer gale and Killer Whales Are bad for baby seal .
Are bad for baby seal , dear rat , As bad a bad can be ; But splash and grow strong , And you ca n't be wrong .
Child of the Open Sea !
Of course the little fellow do not understand the word at first .
He paddle and scramble about by his mother 's side , and learn to scuffle out of the way when his father be fight with another seal , and the two roll and roar up and down the slippery rock .
Matkah use to go to sea to get thing to eat , and the baby be feed only once in two day , but then he eat all he could and thrive upon it .
The first thing he do be to crawl inland , and there he meet ten of thousand of baby of his own age , and they play together like puppy , go to sleep on the clean sand , and play again .
The old people in the nursery take no notice of them , and the holluschickie keep to their own ground , and the baby have a beautiful playtime .
When Matkah come back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight to their playground and call a a sheep call for a lamb , and wait until she hear Kotick bleat .
Then she would take the straight of straight line in his direction , strike out with her fore flipper and knock the youngster head over heel right and leave .
There be always a few hundred mother hunt for their child through the playground , and the baby be keep lively .
But , a Matkah tell Kotick , `` So long a you do n't lie in muddy water and get mange , or rub the hard sand into a cut or scratch , and so long a you never go swim when there be a heavy sea , nothing will hurt you here . ''
Little seal can no more swim than little child , but they be unhappy till they learn .
The first time that Kotick go down to the sea a wave carry him out beyond his depth , and his big head sank and his little hind flipper fly up exactly a his mother have tell him in the song , and if the next wave have not throw him back again he would have drown .
After that , he learn to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the wave just cover him and lift him up while he paddle , but he always keep his eye open for big wave that might hurt .
He be two week learn to use his flipper ; and all that while he flounder in and out of the water , and cough and grunt and crawl up the beach and take catnap on the sand , and go back again , until at last he find that he truly belong to the water .
Then you can imagine the time that he have with his companion , duck under the roller ; or come in on top of a comber and land with a swash and a splutter a the big wave go whirl far up the beach ; or stand up on his tail and scratch his head a the old people do ; or play `` I 'm the King of the Castle '' on slippery , weedy rock that just stick out of the wash .
Now and then he would see a thin fin , like a big shark 's fin , drift along close to shore , and he know that that be the Killer Whale , the Grampus , who eat young seal when he can get them ; and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow , and the fin would jig off slowly , a if it be look for nothing at all .
Late in October the seal begin to leave St. Paul 's for the deep sea , by family and tribe , and there be no more fighting over the nursery , and the holluschickie play anywhere they like .
`` Next year , '' say Matkah to Kotick , `` you will be a holluschickie ; but this year you must learn how to catch fish . ''
They set out together across the Pacific , and Matkah show Kotick how to sleep on his back with his flipper tuck down by his side and his little nose just out of the water .
No cradle be so comfortable a the long , rock swell of the Pacific .
When Kotick felt his skin tingle all over , Matkah tell him he be learn the `` feel of the water , '' and that tingly , prickly feeling mean bad weather come , and he must swim hard and get away .
`` In a little time , '' she say , `` you 'll know where to swim to , but just now we 'll follow Sea Pig , the Porpoise , for he be very wise . ''
A school of porpoise be duck and tear through the water , and little Kotick follow them as fast a he could .
`` How do you know where to go to ? ''
he pant .
The leader of the school roll his white eye and duck under .
`` My tail tingle , youngster , '' he say .
`` That mean there 's a gale behind me .
Come along !
When you 're south of the Sticky Water -LSB- he mean the Equator -RSB- and your tail tingle , that mean there 's a gale in front of you and you must head north .
Come along !
The water feel bad here . ''
This be one of very many thing that Kotick learn , and he be always learn .
Matkah teach him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under-sea bank and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weed ; how to skirt the wreck lie a hundred fathom below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another a the fish run ; how to dance on the top of the wave when the lightning be race all over the sky , and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk a they go down the wind ; how to jump three or four foot clear of the water like a dolphin , flipper close to the side and tail curve ; to leave the fly fish alone because they be all bony ; to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathom deep , and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship , but particularly a row-boat .
At the end of six month what Kotick do not know about deep-sea fishing be not worth the knowing .
And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground .
One day , however , a he be lie half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez , he felt faint and lazy all over , just a human people do when the spring be in their leg , and he remember the good firm beach of Novastoshnah seven thousand mile away , the game his companion play , the smell of the seaweed , the seal roar , and the fighting .
That very minute he turn north , swim steadily , and a he go on he meet score of his mate , all bound for the same place , and they say : `` Greeting , Kotick !
This year we be all holluschickie , and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breaker off Lukannon and play on the new grass .
But where do you get that coat ? ''
Kotick 's fur be almost pure white now , and though he felt very proud of it , he only say , `` Swim quickly !
My bone be ache for the land . ''
And so they all come to the beach where they have be bear , and hear the old seal , their father , fight in the rolling mist .
That night Kotick dance the Fire-dance with the yearling seal .
The sea be full of fire on summer night all the way down from Novastoshnah to Lukannon , and each seal leave a wake like burn oil behind him and a flaming flash when he jump , and the wave break in great phosphorescent streak and swirl .
Then they go inland to the holluschickie ground and roll up and down in the new wild wheat and tell story of what they have do while they have be at sea .
They talk about the Pacific a boy would talk about a wood that they have be nut in , and if anyone have understand them he could have go away and make such a chart of that ocean a never be .
The three - and four-year-old holluschickie romp down from Hutchinson 's Hill cry : `` Out of the way , youngster !
The sea be deep and you do n't know all that 's in it yet .
Wait till you 've round the Horn .
Hi , you yearling , where do you get that white coat ? ''
`` I do n't get it , '' say Kotick .
`` It grow . ''
And just a he be go to roll the speaker over , a couple of black-haired men with flat red face come from behind a sand dune , and Kotick , who have never see a man before , cough and lower his head .
The holluschickie just bundle off a few yard and sit star stupidly .
The men be no less than Kerick Booterin , the chief of the seal-hunters on the island , and Patalamon , his son .
They come from the little village not half a mile from the sea nursery , and they be decide what seal they would drive up to the killing pen -- for the seal be driven just like sheep -- to be turn into seal-skin jacket later on .
`` Ho ! ''
say Patalamon .
`` Look !
There 's a white seal ! ''
Kerick Booterin turn nearly white under his oil and smoke , for he be an Aleut , and Aleuts be not clean people .
Then he begin to mutter a prayer .
`` Do n't touch him , Patalamon .
There have never be a white seal since -- since I be bear .
Perhaps it be old Zaharrof 's ghost .
He be lose last year in the big gale . ''
`` I 'm not go near him , '' say Patalamon .
`` He 's unlucky .
Do you really think he be old Zaharrof come back ?
I owe him for some gull ' egg . ''
`` Do n't look at him , '' say Kerick .
`` Head off that drove of four-year-olds .
The men ought to skin two hundred to-day , but it 's the beginning of the season and they be new to the work .
A hundred will do .
Quick ! ''
Patalamon rattle a pair of seal 's shoulder bone in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stop dead , puff and blowing .
Then he step near and the seal begin to move , and Kerick head them inland , and they never try to get back to their companion .
Hundreds and hundred of thousand of seal watch them be drive , but they go on playing just the same .
Kotick be the only one who ask question , and none of his companion could tell him anything , except that the men always drive seal in that way for six week or two month of every year .
`` I be go to follow , '' he say , and his eye nearly pop out of his head a he shuffle along in the wake of the herd .
`` The white seal be come after u , '' cry Patalamon .
`` That 's the first time a seal have ever come to the killing-grounds alone . ''
`` Hsh !
Do n't look behind you , '' say Kerick .
`` It be Zaharrof 's ghost !
I must speak to the priest about this . ''
The distance to the killing-grounds be only half a mile , but it take an hour to cover , because if the seal go too fast Kerick know that they would get heat and then their fur would come off in patch when they be skin .
So they go on very slowly , past Sea Lion 's Neck , past Webster House , till they come to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seal on the beach .
Kotick follow , pant and wonder .
He think that he be at the world 's end , but the roar of the seal nursery behind him sound as loud a the roar of a train in a tunnel .
Then Kerick sit down on the moss and pull out a heavy pewter watch and let the drive cool off for thirty minute , and Kotick could hear the fog-dew dripping off the brim of his cap .
Then ten or twelve men , each with an iron-bound club three or four foot long , come up , and Kerick point out one or two of the drove that be bite by their companion or too hot , and the men kick those aside with their heavy boot make of the skin of a walrus 's throat , and then Kerick say , `` Let go ! ''
and then the men club the seal on the head as fast a they could .
Ten minute later little Kotick do not recognize his friend any more , for their skin be rip off from the nose to the hind flipper , whip off and throw down on the ground in a pile .
That be enough for Kotick .
He turn and gallop -LRB- a seal can gallop very swiftly for a short time -RRB- back to the sea ; his little new mustache bristle with horror .
At Sea Lion 's Neck , where the great sea lion sit on the edge of the surf , he fling himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and rock there , gasp miserably .
`` What 's here ? ''
say a sea lion gruffly , for a a rule the sea lion keep themselves to themselves .
`` Scoochnie !
Ochen scoochnie ! ''
-LRB- `` I 'm lonesome , very lonesome ! '' -RRB-
say Kotick .
`` They 're kill all the holluschickie on all the beach ! ''
The Sea Lion turn his head inshore .
`` Nonsense ! ''
he say .
`` Your friend be make a much noise a ever .
You must have see old Kerick polishing off a drove .
He 's do that for thirty year . ''
`` It 's horrible , '' say Kotick , back water a a wave go over him , and steady himself with a screw stroke of his flipper that bring him all stand within three inch of a jagged edge of rock .
`` Well do for a yearling ! ''
say the Sea Lion , who could appreciate good swimming .
`` I suppose it be rather awful from your way of look at it , but if you seal will come here year after year , of course the men get to know of it , and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you will always be drive . ''
`` Is n't there any such island ? ''
begin Kotick .
`` I 've follow the poltoos -LSB- the halibut -RSB- for twenty year , and I ca n't say I 've find it yet .
But look here -- you seem to have a fondness for talk to your better -- suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to Sea Vitch .
He may know something .
Do n't flounce off like that .
It 's a six-mile swim , and if I be you I should haul out and take a nap first , little one . ''
Kotick think that that be good advice , so he swim round to his own beach , haul out , and sleep for half an hour , twitch all over , a seal will .
Then he head straight for Walrus Islet , a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah , all ledge and rock and gull ' nest , where the walrus herd by themselves .
He land close to old Sea Vitch -- the big , ugly , bloat , pimpled , fat-necked , long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific , who have no manner except when he be asleep -- a he be then , with his hind flipper half in and half out of the surf .
`` Wake up ! ''
bark Kotick , for the gull be make a great noise .
`` Hah !
Ho !
Hmph !
What 's that ? ''
say Sea Vitch , and he strike the next walrus a blow with his tusk and wake him up , and the next struck the next , and so on till they be all awake and staring in every direction but the right one .
`` Hi !
It 's me , '' say Kotick , bob in the surf and look like a little white slug .
`` Well !
May I be -- skinned ! ''
say Sea Vitch , and they all look at Kotick a you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentleman would look at a little boy .
Kotick do not care to hear any more about skinning just then ; he have see enough of it .
So he call out : `` Is n't there any place for seal to go where men do n't ever come ? ''
`` Go and find out , '' say Sea Vitch , shut his eye .
`` Run away .
We 're busy here . ''
Kotick make his dolphin-jump in the air and shout as loud a he could : `` Clam-eater !
Clam-eater ! ''
He know that Sea Vitch never catch a fish in his life but always root for clam and seaweed ; though he pretend to be a very terrible person .
Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas -- the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins , who be always look for a chance to be rude , take up the cry , and -- so Limmershin tell me -- for nearly five minute you could not have hear a gun fire on Walrus Islet .
All the population be yell and scream `` Clam-eater !
Stareek -LSB- old man -RSB- ! ''
while Sea Vitch roll from side to side grunting and coughing .
`` Now will you tell ? ''
say Kotick , all out of breath .
`` Go and ask Sea Cow , '' say Sea Vitch .
`` If he be live still , he 'll be able to tell you . ''
`` How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? ''
say Kotick , sheer off .
`` He 's the only thing in the sea ugly than Sea Vitch , '' scream a Burgomaster gull , wheel under Sea Vitch 's nose .
`` Uglier , and with bad manner !
Stareek ! ''
Kotick swim back to Novastoshnah , leave the gull to scream .
There he find that no one sympathize with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seal .
They tell him that men have always drive the holluschickie -- it be part of the day 's work -- and that if he do not like to see ugly thing he should not have go to the kill ground .
But none of the other seal have see the killing , and that make the difference between him and his friend .
Besides , Kotick be a white seal .
`` What you must do , '' say old Sea Catch , after he have hear his son 's adventure , `` be to grow up and be a big seal like your father , and have a nursery on the beach , and then they will leave you alone .
In another five year you ought to be able to fight for yourself . ''
Even gentle Matkah , his mother , say : `` You will never be able to stop the killing .
Go and play in the sea , Kotick . ''
And Kotick go off and dance the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart .
That autumn he leave the beach as soon a he could , and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet-head .
He be go to find Sea Cow , if there be such a person in the sea , and he be go to find a quiet island with good firm beach for seal to live on , where men could not get at them .
So he explore and explore by himself from the North to the South Pacific , swim as much a three hundred mile in a day and a night .
He meet with more adventure than can be tell , and narrowly escape be catch by the Basking Shark , and the Spotted Shark , and the Hammerhead , and he meet all the untrustworthy ruffian that loaf up and down the sea , and the heavy polite fish , and the scarlet spot scallop that be moor in one place for hundred of year , and grow very proud of it ; but he never meet Sea Cow , and he never find an island that he could fancy .
If the beach be good and hard , with a slope behind it for seal to play on , there be always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon , boil down blubber , and Kotick know what that meant .
Or else he could see that seal have once visit the island and be kill off , and Kotick know that where men have come once they would come again .
He pick up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross , who tell him that Kerguelen Island be the very place for peace and quiet , and when Kotick go down there he be all but smash to piece against some wicked black cliff in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder .
Yet a he pull out against the gale he could see that even there have once be a seal nursery .
And it be so in all the other island that he visit .
Limmershin give a long list of them , for he say that Kotick spend five season explore , with a four month ' rest each year at Novastoshnah , when the holluschickie use to make fun of him and his imaginary island .
He go to the Gallapagos , a horrid dry place on the Equator , where he be nearly bake to death ; he go to the Georgia Islands , the Orkneys , Emerald Island , Little Nightingale Island , Gough 's Island , Bouvet 's Island , the Crossets , and even to a little speck of an island south of the Cape of Good Hope .
But everywhere the People of the Sea tell him the same thing .
Seals have come to those island once upon a time , but men have kill them all off .
Even when he swim thousand of mile out of the Pacific and get to a place call Cape Corrientes -LRB- that be when he be come back from Gough 's Island -RRB- , he find a few hundred mangy seal on a rock and they tell him that men come there too .
That nearly break his heart , and he head round the Horn back to his own beach ; and on his way north he haul out on an island full of green tree , where he find an old , old seal who be die , and Kotick catch fish for him and tell him all his sorrow .
`` Now , '' say Kotick , `` I be go back to Novastoshnah , and if I be driven to the killing-pens with the holluschickie I shall not care . ''
The old seal say , `` Try once more .
I be the last of the Lost Rookery of Masafuera , and in the day when men kill u by the hundred thousand there be a story on the beach that some day a white seal would come out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place .
I be old , and I shall never live to see that day , but others will .
Try once more . ''
And Kotick curl up his mustache -LRB- it be a beauty -RRB- and say , `` I be the only white seal that have ever be bear on the beach , and I be the only seal , black or white , who ever think of look for new island . ''
This cheer him immensely ; and when he come back to Novastoshnah that summer , Matkah , his mother , beg him to marry and settle down , for he be no long a holluschick but a full-grown sea-catch , with a curly white mane on his shoulder , a heavy , a big , and as fierce a his father .
`` Give me another season , '' he say .
`` Remember , Mother , it be always the seventh wave that go farthest up the beach . ''
Curiously enough , there be another seal who think that she would put off marry till the next year , and Kotick dance the Fire-dance with her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he set off on his last exploration .
This time he go westward , because he have fall on the trail of a great shoal of halibut , and he need at least one hundred pound of fish a day to keep him in good condition .
He chase them till he be tire , and then he curl himself up and go to sleep on the hollow of the ground swell that set in to Copper Island .
He know the coast perfectly well , so about midnight , when he felt himself gently bump on a weed-bed , he say , `` Hm , tide 's running strong tonight , '' and turn over under water open his eye slowly and stretch .
Then he jump like a cat , for he saw huge thing nose about in the shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringe of the weed .
`` By the Great Combers of Magellan ! ''
he say , beneath his mustache .
`` Who in the Deep Sea be these people ? ''
They be like no walrus , sea lion , seal , bear , whale , shark , fish , squid , or scallop that Kotick have ever see before .
They be between twenty and thirty foot long , and they have no hind flipper , but a shovel-like tail that look a if it have be whittle out of wet leather .
Their head be the most foolish-looking thing you ever saw , and they balance on the end of their tail in deep water when they be n't graze , bow solemnly to each other and wave their front flipper a a fat man wave his arm .
`` Ahem ! ''
say Kotick .
`` Good sport , gentleman ? ''
The big thing answer by bow and wave their flipper like the Frog Footman .
When they begin feed again Kotick saw that their upper lip be split into two piece that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together again with a whole bushel of seaweed between the split .
They tuck the stuff into their mouth and chumped solemnly .
`` Messy style of feeding , that , '' say Kotick .
They bow again , and Kotick begin to lose his temper .
`` Very good , '' he say .
`` If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you need n't show off so .
I see you bow gracefully , but I should like to know your name . ''
The split lips move and twitch ; and the glassy green eye star , but they do not speak .
`` Well ! ''
say Kotick .
`` You 're the only people I 've ever meet ugly than Sea Vitch -- and with bad manner . ''
Then he remember in a flash what the Burgomaster gull have scream to him when he be a little yearling at Walrus Islet , and he tumble backward in the water , for he know that he have find Sea Cow at last .
The sea cow go on schlooping and grazing and chumping in the weed , and Kotick ask them question in every language that he have pick up in his travel ; and the Sea People talk nearly as many language a human being .
But the sea cow do not answer because Sea Cow can not talk .
He have only six bone in his neck where he ought to have seven , and they say under the sea that that prevent him from speak even to his companion .
But , a you know , he have an extra joint in his foreflipper , and by wave it up and down and about he make what answer to a sort of clumsy telegraphic code .
By daylight Kotick 's mane be stand on end and his temper be go where the dead crab go .
Then the Sea Cow begin to travel northward very slowly , stop to hold absurd bow council from time to time , and Kotick follow them , say to himself , `` People who be such idiot a these be would have be kill long ago if they have n't find out some safe island .
And what be good enough for the Sea Cow be good enough for the Sea Catch .
All the same , I wish they 'd hurry . ''
It be weary work for Kotick .
The herd never go more than forty or fifty mile a day , and stop to fee at night , and keep close to the shore all the time ; while Kotick swim round them , and over them , and under them , but he could not hurry them up one-half mile .
As they go far north they hold a bowing council every few hour , and Kotick nearly bite off his mustache with impatience till he saw that they be follow up a warm current of water , and then he respect them more .
One night they sink through the shiny water -- sank like stone -- and for the first time since he have know them begin to swim quickly .
Kotick follow , and the pace astonish him , for he never dream that Sea Cow be anything of a swimmer .
They head for a cliff by the shore -- a cliff that run down into deep water , and plunge into a dark hole at the foot of it , twenty fathom under the sea .
It be a long , long swim , and Kotick badly want fresh air before he be out of the dark tunnel they lead him through .
`` My wig ! ''
he say , when he rise , gasp and puffing , into open water at the farther end .
`` It be a long dive , but it be worth it . ''
The sea cow have separate and be browse lazily along the edge of the fine beach that Kotick have ever see .
There be long stretch of smooth-worn rock run for mile , exactly fit to make seal-nurseries , and there be play-grounds of hard sand slop inland behind them , and there be roller for seal to dance in , and long grass to roll in , and sand dune to climb up and down , and , best of all , Kotick knew by the feel of the water , which never deceive a true sea catch , that no men have ever come there .
The first thing he do be to assure himself that the fishing be good , and then he swim along the beach and count up the delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling fog .
Away to the northward , out to sea , run a line of bar and shoal and rock that would never let a ship come within six mile of the beach , and between the island and the mainland be a stretch of deep water that run up to the perpendicular cliff , and somewhere below the cliff be the mouth of the tunnel .
`` It 's Novastoshnah over again , but ten time well , '' say Kotick .
`` Sea Cow must be wise than I think .
Men ca n't come down the cliff , even if there be any men ; and the shoal to seaward would knock a ship to splinter .
If any place in the sea be safe , this be it . ''
He begin to think of the seal he have leave behind him , but though he be in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah , he thoroughly explore the new country , so that he would be able to answer all question .
Then he dive and make sure of the mouth of the tunnel , and race through to the southward .
No one but a sea cow or a seal would have dream of there be such a place , and when he look back at the cliff even Kotick could hardly believe that he have be under them .
He be six day go home , though he be not swim slowly ; and when he haul out just above Sea Lion 's Neck the first person he meet be the seal who have be wait for him , and she saw by the look in his eye that he have find his island at last .
But the holluschickie and Sea Catch , his father , and all the other seal laugh at him when he tell them what he have discover , and a young seal about his own age say , `` This be all very well , Kotick , but you ca n't come from no one know where and order u off like this .
Remember we 've be fight for our nursery , and that 's a thing you never do .
You prefer prowl about in the sea . ''
The other seal laugh at this , and the young seal begin twist his head from side to side .
He have just marry that year , and be make a great fuss about it .
`` I 've no nursery to fight for , '' say Kotick .
`` I only want to show you all a place where you will be safe .
What 's the use of fight ? ''
`` Oh , if you 're try to back out , of course I 've no more to say , '' say the young seal with an ugly chuckle .
`` Will you come with me if I win ? ''
say Kotick .
And a green light come into his eye , for he be very angry at have to fight at all .
`` Very good , '' say the young seal carelessly .
`` If you win , I 'll come . ''
He have no time to change his mind , for Kotick 's head be out and his teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal 's neck .
Then he throw himself back on his haunch and haul his enemy down the beach , shake him , and knock him over .
Then Kotick roar to the seal : `` I 've do my best for you these five season past .
I 've find you the island where you 'll be safe , but unless your head be drag off your silly neck you wo n't believe .
I 'm go to teach you now .
Look out for yourselves ! ''
Limmershin tell me that never in his life -- and Limmershin see ten thousand big seal fight every year -- never in all his little life do he see anything like Kotick 's charge into the nursery .
He fling himself at the big sea catch he could find , catch him by the throat , choke him and bump him and bang him till he grunt for mercy , and then throw him aside and attack the next .
You see , Kotick have never fast for four month a the big seal do every year , and his deep-sea swimming trip keep him in perfect condition , and , best of all , he have never fight before .
His curly white mane stand up with rage , and his eye flame , and his big dog teeth glisten , and he be splendid to look at .
Old Sea Catch , his father , saw him tear past , haul the grizzled old seal about a though they have be halibut , and upset the young bachelor in all direction ; and Sea Catch give a roar and shout : `` He may be a fool , but he be the best fighter on the beach !
Do n't tackle your father , my son !
He 's with you ! ''
Kotick roar in answer , and old Sea Catch waddle in with his mustache on end , blow like a locomotive , while Matkah and the seal that be go to marry Kotick cower down and admire their men-folk .
It be a gorgeous fight , for the two fight as long a there be a seal that dare lift up his head , and when there be none they parade grandly up and down the beach side by side , bellowing .
At night , just a the Northern Lights be wink and flash through the fog , Kotick climb a bare rock and look down on the scattered nursery and the torn and bleeding seal .
`` Now , '' he say , `` I 've teach you your lesson . ''
`` My wig ! ''
say old Sea Catch , boost himself up stiffly , for he be fearfully maul .
`` The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up bad .
Son , I 'm proud of you , and what 's more , I 'll come with you to your island -- if there be such a place . ''
`` Hear you , fat pig of the sea .
Who come with me to the Sea Cow 's tunnel ?
Answer , or I shall teach you again , '' roar Kotick .
There be a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beach .
`` We will come , '' say thousand of tired voice .
`` We will follow Kotick , the White Seal . ''
Then Kotick drop his head between his shoulder and shut his eye proudly .
He be not a white seal any more , but red from head to tail .
All the same he would have scorn to look at or touch one of his wound .
A week later he and his army -LRB- nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old seal -RRB- go away north to the Sea Cow 's tunnel , Kotick lead them , and the seal that stay at Novastoshnah call them idiot .
But next spring , when they all meet off the fish bank of the Pacific , Kotick 's seal tell such tale of the new beach beyond Sea Cow 's tunnel that more and more seal leave Novastoshnah .
Of course it be not all do at once , for the seal be not very clever , and they need a long time to turn thing over in their mind , but year after year more seal go away from Novastoshnah , and Lukannon , and the other nursery , to the quiet , sheltered beach where Kotick sit all the summer through , get big and fatter and strong each year , while the holluschickie play around him , in that sea where no man come .
Lukannon This be the great deep-sea song that all the St. Paul seal sing when they be head back to their beach in the summer .
It be a sort of very sad seal National Anthem .
I meet my mate in the morning -LRB- and , oh , but I be old ! -RRB-
Where roar on the ledge the summer ground-swell roll ; I hear them lift the chorus that drown the breaker ' song -- The Beaches of Lukannon -- two million voice strong .
The song of pleasant station beside the salt lagoon , The song of blow squadron that shuffle down the dune , The song of midnight dance that churn the sea to flame -- The Beaches of Lukannon -- before the sealer come !
I meet my mate in the morning -LRB- I 'll never meet them more ! -RRB-
; They come and go in legion that darken all the shore .
And o'er the foam-flecked offing as far a voice could reach We hail the landing-parties and we sing them up the beach .
The Beaches of Lukannon -- the winter wheat so tall -- The dripping , crinkle lichen , and the sea-fog drenching all !
The platform of our playground , all shin smooth and worn !
The Beaches of Lukannon -- the home where we be bear !
I meet my mate in the morning , a broken , scatter band .
Men shoot u in the water and club u on the land ; Men drive u to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame , And still we sing Lukannon -- before the sealer come .
Wheel down , wheel down to southward ; oh , Gooverooska , go !
And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe ; Ere , empty a the shark 's egg the tempest fling ashore , The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their son no more !
`` Rikki-Tikki-Tavi '' At the hole where he go in Red-Eye call to Wrinkle-Skin .
Hear what little Red-Eye saith : `` Nag , come up and dance with death ! ''
Eye to eye and head to head , -LRB- Keep the measure , Nag . -RRB-
This shall end when one be dead ; -LRB- At thy pleasure , Nag . -RRB-
Turn for turn and twist for twist -- -LRB- Run and hide thee , Nag . -RRB-
Hah !
The hood Death have miss !
-LRB- Woe betide thee , Nag ! -RRB-
This be the story of the great war that Rikki-tikki-tavi fight single-handed , through the bath-rooms of the big bungalow in Segowlee cantonment .
Darzee , the Tailorbird , help him , and Chuchundra , the musk-rat , who never come out into the middle of the floor , but always creep round by the wall , give him advice , but Rikki-tikki do the real fighting .
He be a mongoose , rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail , but quite like a weasel in his head and his habit .
His eye and the end of his restless nose be pink .
He could scratch himself anywhere he please with any leg , front or back , that he choose to use .
He could fluff up his tail till it look like a bottle brush , and his war cry a he scuttle through the long grass be : `` Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk ! ''
One day , a high summer flood wash him out of the burrow where he live with his father and mother , and carry him , kick and clucking , down a roadside ditch .
He find a little wisp of grass float there , and clung to it till he lose his sens .
When he revive , he be lie in the hot sun on the middle of a garden path , very draggled indeed , and a small boy be say , `` Here 's a dead mongoose .
Let 's have a funeral . ''
`` No , '' say his mother , `` let 's take him in and dry him .
Perhaps he be n't really dead . ''
They take him into the house , and a big man pick him up between his finger and thumb and say he be not dead but half choked .
So they wrap him in cotton wool , and warm him over a little fire , and he open his eye and sneeze .
`` Now , '' say the big man -LRB- he be an Englishman who have just move into the bungalow -RRB- , `` do n't frighten him , and we 'll see what he 'll do . ''
It be the hard thing in the world to frighten a mongoose , because he be eat up from nose to tail with curiosity .
The motto of all the mongoose family be `` Run and find out , '' and Rikki-tikki be a true mongoose .
He look at the cotton wool , decide that it be not good to eat , run all round the table , sit up and put his fur in order , scratch himself , and jump on the small boy 's shoulder .
`` Do n't be frighten , Teddy , '' say his father .
`` That 's his way of make friend . ''
`` Ouch !
He 's tickle under my chin , '' say Teddy .
Rikki-tikki look down between the boy 's collar and neck , snuffed at his ear , and climb down to the floor , where he sit rub his nose .
`` Good gracious , '' say Teddy 's mother , `` and that 's a wild creature !
I suppose he 's so tame because we 've be kind to him . ''
`` All mongoose be like that , '' say her husband .
`` If Teddy do n't pick him up by the tail , or try to put him in a cage , he 'll run in and out of the house all day long .
Let 's give him something to eat . ''
They give him a little piece of raw meat .
Rikki-tikki like it immensely , and when it be finish he go out into the veranda and sat in the sunshine and fluff up his fur to make it dry to the root .
Then he felt well .
`` There be more thing to find out about in this house , '' he say to himself , `` than all my family could find out in all their life .
I shall certainly stay and find out . ''
He spend all that day roam over the house .
He nearly drown himself in the bath-tubs , put his nose into the ink on a writing table , and burn it on the end of the big man 's cigar , for he climb up in the big man 's lap to see how writing be do .
At nightfall he run into Teddy 's nursery to watch how kerosene lamp be light , and when Teddy go to bed Rikki-tikki climb up too .
But he be a restless companion , because he have to get up and attend to every noise all through the night , and find out what make it .
Teddy 's mother and father come in , the last thing , to look at their boy , and Rikki-tikki be awake on the pillow .
`` I do n't like that , '' say Teddy 's mother .
`` He may bite the child . ''
`` He 'll do no such thing , '' say the father .
`` Teddy 's safer with that little beast than if he have a bloodhound to watch him .
If a snake come into the nursery now -- '' But Teddy 's mother would n't think of anything so awful .
Early in the morning Rikki-tikki come to early breakfast in the veranda rid on Teddy 's shoulder , and they give him banana and some boil egg .
He sit on all their lap one after the other , because every well-brought-up mongoose always hop to be a house mongoose some day and have room to run about in ; and Rikki-tikki 's mother -LRB- she use to live in the general 's house at Segowlee -RRB- have carefully tell Rikki what to do if ever he come across white men .
Then Rikki-tikki go out into the garden to see what be to be see .
It be a large garden , only half cultivate , with bush , as big a summer-houses , of Marshal Niel roses , lime and orange tree , clump of bamboo , and thicket of high grass .
Rikki-tikki lick his lip .
`` This be a splendid hunting-ground , '' he say , and his tail grow bottle-brushy at the thought of it , and he scuttle up and down the garden , snuff here and there till he hear very sorrowful voice in a thorn-bush .
It be Darzee , the Tailorbird , and his wife .
They have make a beautiful nest by pull two big leaf together and stitch them up the edge with fiber , and have fill the hollow with cotton and downy fluff .
The nest swayed to and fro , a they sit on the rim and cry .
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask Rikki-tikki .
`` We be very miserable , '' say Darzee .
`` One of our baby fell out of the nest yesterday and Nag eat him . ''
`` H 'm ! ''
say Rikki-tikki , `` that be very sad -- but I be a stranger here .
Who be Nag ? ''
Darzee and his wife only cower down in the nest without answer , for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there come a low hiss -- a horrid cold sound that make Rikki-tikki jump back two clear foot .
Then inch by inch out of the grass rise up the head and spread hood of Nag , the big black cobra , and he be five foot long from tongue to tail .
When he have lift one-third of himself clear of the ground , he stay balance to and fro exactly a a dandelion tuft balance in the wind , and he look at Rikki-tikki with the wicked snake 's eye that never change their expression , whatever the snake may be think of .
`` Who be Nag ? ''
say he .
`` I be Nag .
The great God Brahm put his mark upon all our people , when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off Brahm a he sleep .
Look , and be afraid ! ''
He spread out his hood more than ever , and Rikki-tikki saw the spectacle-mark on the back of it that look exactly like the eye part of a hook-and-eye fastening .
He be afraid for the minute , but it be impossible for a mongoose to stay frighten for any length of time , and though Rikki-tikki have never meet a live cobra before , his mother have feed him on dead one , and he know that all a grown mongoose 's business in life be to fight and eat snake .
Nag know that too and , at the bottom of his cold heart , he be afraid .
`` Well , '' say Rikki-tikki , and his tail begin to fluff up again , `` mark or no mark , do you think it be right for you to eat fledgling out of a nest ? ''
Nag be think to himself , and watch the least little movement in the grass behind Rikki-tikki .
He know that mongoose in the garden mean death sooner or later for him and his family , but he want to get Rikki-tikki off his guard .
So he drop his head a little , and put it on one side .
`` Let u talk , '' he say .
`` You eat egg .
Why should not I eat bird ? ''
`` Behind you !
Look behind you ! ''
sang Darzee .
Rikki-tikki know good than to waste time in star .
He jump up in the air as high a he could go , and just under him whiz by the head of Nagaina , Nag 's wicked wife .
She have creep up behind him a he be talk , to make an end of him .
He hear her savage hiss a the stroke miss .
He come down almost across her back , and if he have be an old mongoose he would have know that then be the time to break her back with one bite ; but he be afraid of the terrible lash return stroke of the cobra .
He bit , indeed , but do not bite long enough , and he jump clear of the whisk tail , leave Nagaina torn and angry .
`` Wicked , wicked Darzee ! ''
say Nag , lash up as high a he could reach toward the nest in the thorn-bush .
But Darzee have build it out of reach of snake , and it only sway to and fro .
Rikki-tikki felt his eye grow red and hot -LRB- when a mongoose 's eye grow red , he be angry -RRB- , and he sit back on his tail and hind leg like a little kangaroo , and look all round him , and chatter with rage .
But Nag and Nagaina have disappear into the grass .
When a snake miss it stroke , it never say anything or give any sign of what it mean to do next .
Rikki-tikki do not care to follow them , for he do not feel sure that he could manage two snake at once .
So he trot off to the gravel path near the house , and sit down to think .
It be a serious matter for him .
If you read the old book of natural history , you will find they say that when the mongoose fight the snake and happen to get bitten , he run off and eat some herb that cure him .
That be not true .
The victory be only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot -- snake 's blow against mongoose 's jump -- and a no eye can follow the motion of a snake 's head when it strike , this make thing much more wonderful than any magic herb .
Rikki-tikki know he be a young mongoose , and it make him all the more pleased to think that he have manage to escape a blow from behind .
It give him confidence in himself , and when Teddy come run down the path , Rikki-tikki be ready to be pet .
But just a Teddy be stoop , something wriggle a little in the dust , and a tiny voice say : `` Be careful .
I be Death ! ''
It be Karait , the dusty brown snakeling that lie for choice on the dusty earth ; and his bite be as dangerous a the cobra 's .
But he be so small that nobody think of him , and so he do the more harm to people .
Rikki-tikki 's eye grow red again , and he dance up to Karait with the peculiar rocking , sway motion that he have inherit from his family .
It look very funny , but it be so perfectly balance a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please , and in deal with snake this be an advantage .
If Rikki-tikki have only know , he be do a much more dangerous thing than fight Nag , for Karait be so small , and can turn so quickly , that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head , he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip .
But Rikki do not know .
His eye be all red , and he rock back and forth , look for a good place to hold .
Karait strike out .
Rikki jump sideways and try to run in , but the wicked little dusty gray head lash within a fraction of his shoulder , and he have to jump over the body , and the head follow his heel close .
Teddy shout to the house : `` Oh , look here !
Our mongoose be kill a snake . ''
And Rikki-tikki hear a scream from Teddy 's mother .
His father run out with a stick , but by the time he come up , Karait have lunge out once too far , and Rikki-tikki have spring , jump on the snake 's back , drop his head far between his foreleg , bite a high up the back a he could get hold , and roll away .
That bite paralyzed Karait , and Rikki-tikki be just go to eat him up from the tail , after the custom of his family at dinner , when he remember that a full meal make a slow mongoose , and if he want all his strength and quickness ready , he must keep himself thin .
He go away for a dust bath under the castor-oil bush , while Teddy 's father beat the dead Karait .
`` What be the use of that ? ''
think Rikki-tikki .
`` I have settle it all ; '' and then Teddy 's mother pick him up from the dust and hug him , cry that he have save Teddy from death , and Teddy 's father say that he be a providence , and Teddy look on with big scared eye .
Rikki-tikki be rather amuse at all the fuss , which , of course , he do not understand .
Teddy 's mother might just as well have pet Teddy for play in the dust .
Rikki be thoroughly enjoy himself .
That night at dinner , walk to and fro among the wine-glasses on the table , he might have stuff himself three time over with nice thing .
But he remember Nag and Nagaina , and though it be very pleasant to be pat and pet by Teddy 's mother , and to sit on Teddy 's shoulder , his eye would get red from time to time , and he would go off into his long war cry of `` Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk ! ''
Teddy carry him off to bed , and insist on Rikki-tikki sleep under his chin .
Rikki-tikki be too well breed to bite or scratch , but as soon a Teddy be asleep he go off for his nightly walk round the house , and in the dark he run up against Chuchundra , the musk-rat , creep around by the wall .
Chuchundra be a broken-hearted little beast .
He whimper and cheep all the night , try to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room .
But he never get there .
`` Do n't kill me , '' say Chuchundra , almost weeping .
`` Rikki-tikki , do n't kill me ! ''
`` Do you think a snake-killer kill muskrat ? ''
say Rikki-tikki scornfully .
`` Those who kill snake get kill by snake , '' say Chuchundra , more sorrowfully than ever .
`` And how be I to be sure that Nag wo n't mistake me for you some dark night ? ''
`` There 's not the least danger , '' say Rikki-tikki .
`` But Nag be in the garden , and I know you do n't go there . ''
`` My cousin Chua , the rat , tell me -- '' say Chuchundra , and then he stop .
`` Told you what ? ''
`` H'sh !
Nag be everywhere , Rikki-tikki .
You should have talk to Chua in the garden . ''
`` I do n't -- so you must tell me .
Quick , Chuchundra , or I 'll bite you ! ''
Chuchundra sit down and cried till the tear roll off his whisker .
`` I be a very poor man , '' he sob .
`` I never have spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room .
H'sh !
I must n't tell you anything .
Ca n't you hear , Rikki-tikki ? ''
Rikki-tikki listen .
The house be as still a still , but he think he could just catch the faint scratch-scratch in the world -- a noise as faint a that of a wasp walk on a window-pane -- the dry scratch of a snake 's scale on brick-work .
`` That 's Nag or Nagaina , '' he say to himself , `` and he be crawl into the bath-room sluice .
You 're right , Chuchundra ; I should have talk to Chua . ''
He steal off to Teddy 's bath-room , but there be nothing there , and then to Teddy 's mother 's bathroom .
At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there be a brick pull out to make a sluice for the bath water , and a Rikki-tikki stole in by the masonry curb where the bath be put , he hear Nag and Nagaina whisper together outside in the moonlight .
`` When the house be empty of people , '' say Nagaina to her husband , `` he will have to go away , and then the garden will be our own again .
Go in quietly , and remember that the big man who kill Karait be the first one to bite .
Then come out and tell me , and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together . ''
`` But be you sure that there be anything to be gain by kill the people ? ''
say Nag .
`` Everything .
When there be no people in the bungalow , do we have any mongoose in the garden ?
So long a the bungalow be empty , we be king and queen of the garden ; and remember that as soon a our egg in the melon bed hatch -LRB- a they may tomorrow -RRB- , our child will need room and quiet . ''
`` I have not think of that , '' say Nag .
`` I will go , but there be no need that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward .
I will kill the big man and his wife , and the child if I can , and come away quietly .
Then the bungalow will be empty , and Rikki-tikki will go . ''
Rikki-tikki tingle all over with rage and hatred at this , and then Nag 's head come through the sluice , and his five foot of cold body follow it .
Angry a he be , Rikki-tikki be very frightened a he saw the size of the big cobra .
Nag coil himself up , raise his head , and look into the bathroom in the dark , and Rikki could see his eye glitter .
`` Now , if I kill him here , Nagaina will know ; and if I fight him on the open floor , the odds be in his favor .
What be I to do ? ''
say Rikki-tikki-tavi .
Nag wave to and fro , and then Rikki-tikki hear him drink from the big water-jar that be use to fill the bath .
`` That be good , '' say the snake .
`` Now , when Karait be kill , the big man have a stick .
He may have that stick still , but when he come in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick .
I shall wait here till he come .
Nagaina -- do you hear me ?
-- I shall wait here in the cool till daytime . ''
There be no answer from outside , so Rikki-tikki knew Nagaina have go away .
Nag coil himself down , coil by coil , round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar , and Rikki-tikki stay still a death .
After an hour he begin to move , muscle by muscle , toward the jar .
Nag be asleep , and Rikki-tikki look at his big back , wonder which would be the best place for a good hold .
`` If I do n't break his back at the first jump , '' say Rikki , `` he can still fight .
And if he fight -- O Rikki ! ''
He look at the thickness of the neck below the hood , but that be too much for him ; and a bite near the tail would only make Nag savage .
`` It must be the head '' ' he say at last ; `` the head above the hood .
And , when I be once there , I must not let go . ''
Then he jump .
The head be lie a little clear of the water jar , under the curve of it ; and , a his teeth meet , Rikki brace his back against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold down the head .
This give him just one second 's purchase , and he make the most of it .
Then he be batter to and fro a a rat be shake by a dog -- to and fro on the floor , up and down , and around in great circle , but his eye be red and he hold on a the body cart-whipped over the floor , upset the tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush , and bang against the tin side of the bath .
As he hold he close his jaw tighter and tighter , for he make sure he would be bang to death , and , for the honor of his family , he prefer to be find with his teeth lock .
He be dizzy , ache , and felt shake to piece when something go off like a thunderclap just behind him .
A hot wind knock him senseless and red fire sing his fur .
The big man have be waken by the noise , and have fire both barrel of a shotgun into Nag just behind the hood .
Rikki-tikki hold on with his eye shut , for now he be quite sure he be dead .
But the head do not move , and the big man pick him up and say , `` It 's the mongoose again , Alice .
The little chap have save our life now . ''
Then Teddy 's mother come in with a very white face , and saw what be leave of Nag , and Rikki-tikki drag himself to Teddy 's bedroom and spent half the rest of the night shake himself tenderly to find out whether he really be break into forty piece , a he fancy .
When morning come he be very stiff , but well pleased with his doings .
`` Now I have Nagaina to settle with , and she will be bad than five Nags , and there 's no knowing when the egg she speak of will hatch .
Goodness !
I must go and see Darzee , '' he say .
Without wait for breakfast , Rikki-tikki run to the thornbush where Darzee be sing a song of triumph at the top of his voice .
The news of Nag 's death be all over the garden , for the sweeper have throw the body on the rubbish-heap .
`` Oh , you stupid tuft of feather ! ''
say Rikki-tikki angrily .
`` Is this the time to sing ? ''
`` Nag be dead -- be dead -- be dead ! ''
sang Darzee .
`` The valiant Rikki-tikki catch him by the head and hold fast .
The big man bring the bang-stick , and Nag fell in two piece !
He will never eat my baby again . ''
`` All that 's true enough .
But where 's Nagaina ? ''
say Rikki-tikki , look carefully round him .
`` Nagaina come to the bathroom sluice and call for Nag , '' Darzee go on , `` and Nag come out on the end of a stick -- the sweeper pick him up on the end of a stick and throw him upon the rubbish heap .
Let u sing about the great , the red-eyed Rikki-tikki ! ''
And Darzee fill his throat and sang .
`` If I could get up to your nest , I 'd roll your baby out ! ''
say Rikki-tikki .
`` You do n't know when to do the right thing at the right time .
You 're safe enough in your nest there , but it 's war for me down here .
Stop sing a minute , Darzee . ''
`` For the great , the beautiful Rikki-tikki 's sake I will stop , '' say Darzee .
`` What be it , O Killer of the terrible Nag ? ''
`` Where be Nagaina , for the third time ? ''
`` On the rubbish heap by the stable , mourn for Nag .
Great be Rikki-tikki with the white teeth . ''
`` Bother my white teeth !
Have you ever hear where she keep her egg ? ''
`` In the melon bed , on the end near the wall , where the sun strike nearly all day .
She hide them there week ago . ''
`` And you never think it worth while to tell me ?
The end near the wall , you say ? ''
`` Rikki-tikki , you be not go to eat her egg ? ''
`` Not eat exactly ; no .
Darzee , if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stable and pretend that your wing be break , and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush .
I must get to the melon-bed , and if I go there now she 'd see me . ''
Darzee be a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head .
And just because he know that Nagaina 's child be bear in egg like his own , he do n't think at first that it be fair to kill them .
But his wife be a sensible bird , and she know that cobra 's egg mean young cobra later on .
So she fly off from the nest , and leave Darzee to keep the baby warm , and continue his song about the death of Nag .
Darzee be very like a man in some way .
She flutter in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and cry out , `` Oh , my wing be break !
The boy in the house throw a stone at me and break it . ''
Then she flutter more desperately than ever .
Nagaina lift up her head and hiss , `` You warn Rikki-tikki when I would have kill him .
Indeed and truly , you 've choose a bad place to be lame in . ''
And she move toward Darzee 's wife , slip along over the dust .
`` The boy break it with a stone ! ''
shriek Darzee 's wife .
`` Well !
It may be some consolation to you when you 're dead to know that I shall settle account with the boy .
My husband lie on the rubbish heap this morning , but before night the boy in the house will lie very still .
What be the use of run away ?
I be sure to catch you .
Little fool , look at me ! ''
Darzee 's wife know good than to do that , for a bird who look at a snake 's eye get so frightened that she can not move .
Darzee 's wife flutter on , pip sorrowfully , and never leave the ground , and Nagaina quicken her pace .
Rikki-tikki hear them go up the path from the stable , and he race for the end of the melon patch near the wall .
There , in the warm litter above the melon , very cunningly hidden , he find twenty-five egg , about the size of a bantam 's egg , but with whitish skin instead of shell .
`` I be not a day too soon , '' he say , for he could see the baby cobra curl up inside the skin , and he know that the minute they be hatch they could each kill a man or a mongoose .
He bite off the top of the egg a fast a he could , take care to crush the young cobra , and turn over the litter from time to time to see whether he have miss any .
At last there be only three egg leave , and Rikki-tikki begin to chuckle to himself , when he hear Darzee 's wife screaming : `` Rikki-tikki , I lead Nagaina toward the house , and she have go into the veranda , and -- oh , come quickly -- she mean kill ! ''
Rikki-tikki smash two egg , and tumble backward down the melon-bed with the third egg in his mouth , and scuttle to the veranda as hard a he could put foot to the ground .
Teddy and his mother and father be there at early breakfast , but Rikki-tikki saw that they be not eat anything .
They sit stone-still , and their face be white .
Nagaina be coil up on the matting by Teddy 's chair , within easy striking distance of Teddy 's bare leg , and she be sway to and fro , sing a song of triumph .
`` Son of the big man that kill Nag , '' she hiss , `` stay still .
I be not ready yet .
Wait a little .
Keep very still , all you three !
If you move I strike , and if you do not move I strike .
Oh , foolish people , who kill my Nag ! ''
Teddy 's eye be fix on his father , and all his father could do be to whisper , `` Sit still , Teddy .
You must n't move .
Teddy , keep still . ''
Then Rikki-tikki come up and cry , `` Turn round , Nagaina .
Turn and fight ! ''
`` All in good time , '' say she , without move her eye .
`` I will settle my account with you presently .
Look at your friend , Rikki-tikki .
They be still and white .
They be afraid .
They dare not move , and if you come a step nearer I strike . ''
`` Look at your egg , '' say Rikki-tikki , `` in the melon bed near the wall .
Go and look , Nagaina ! ''
The big snake turn half around , and saw the egg on the veranda .
`` Ah-h !
Give it to me , '' she say .
Rikki-tikki put his paw one on each side of the egg , and his eye be blood-red .
`` What price for a snake 's egg ?
For a young cobra ?
For a young king cobra ?
For the last -- the very last of the brood ?
The ant be eat all the others down by the melon bed . ''
Nagaina spin clear round , forget everything for the sake of the one egg .
Rikki-tikki saw Teddy 's father shoot out a big hand , catch Teddy by the shoulder , and drag him across the little table with the tea-cups , safe and out of reach of Nagaina .
`` Tricked !
Tricked !
Tricked !
Rikk-tck-tck ! ''
chuckle Rikki-tikki .
`` The boy be safe , and it be I -- I -- I that catch Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom . ''
Then he begin to jump up and down , all four foot together , his head close to the floor .
`` He throw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off .
He be dead before the big man blow him in two .
I do it !
Rikki-tikki-tck-tck !
Come then , Nagaina .
Come and fight with me .
You shall not be a widow long . ''
Nagaina saw that she have lose her chance of kill Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki 's paw .
`` Give me the egg , Rikki-tikki .
Give me the last of my egg , and I will go away and never come back , '' she say , lower her hood .
`` Yes , you will go away , and you will never come back .
For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag .
Fight , widow !
The big man have go for his gun !
Fight ! ''
Rikki-tikki be bound all round Nagaina , keep just out of reach of her stroke , his little eye like hot coal .
Nagaina gather herself together and fling out at him .
Rikki-tikki jump up and backward .
Again and again and again she strike , and each time her head come with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gather herself together like a watch spring .
Then Rikki-tikki dance in a circle to get behind her , and Nagaina spin round to keep her head to his head , so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sound like dry leaf blow along by the wind .
He have forget the egg .
It still lay on the veranda , and Nagaina come nearer and near to it , till at last , while Rikki-tikki be draw breath , she catch it in her mouth , turn to the veranda step , and fly like an arrow down the path , with Rikki-tikki behind her .
When the cobra run for her life , she go like a whip-lash flick across a horse 's neck .
Rikki-tikki know that he must catch her , or all the trouble would begin again .
She head straight for the long grass by the thorn-bush , and a he be run Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still sing his foolish little song of triumph .
But Darzee 's wife be wiser .
She fly off her nest a Nagaina come along , and flap her wing about Nagaina 's head .
If Darzee have help they might have turn her , but Nagaina only lower her hood and go on .
Still , the instant 's delay bring Rikki-tikki up to her , and a she plunge into the rat-hole where she and Nag use to live , his little white teeth be clench on her tail , and he go down with her -- and very few mongoose , however wise and old they may be , care to follow a cobra into it hole .
It be dark in the hole ; and Rikki-tikki never know when it might open out and give Nagaina room to turn and strike at him .
He hold on savagely , and stick out his foot to act a brake on the dark slope of the hot , moist earth .
Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stop wave , and Darzee say , `` It be all over with Rikki-tikki !
We must sing his death song .
Valiant Rikki-tikki be dead !
For Nagaina will surely kill him underground . ''
So he sing a very mournful song that he make up on the spur of the minute , and just a he get to the most touching part , the grass quiver again , and Rikki-tikki , cover with dirt , drag himself out of the hole leg by leg , lick his whisker .
Darzee stop with a little shout .
Rikki-tikki shake some of the dust out of his fur and sneeze .
`` It be all over , '' he say .
`` The widow will never come out again . ''
And the red ant that live between the grass stem hear him , and begin to troop down one after another to see if he have speak the truth .
Rikki-tikki curl himself up in the grass and slept where he be -- slept and slept till it be late in the afternoon , for he have do a hard day 's work .
`` Now , '' he say , when he awake , `` I will go back to the house .
Tell the Coppersmith , Darzee , and he will tell the garden that Nagaina be dead . ''
The Coppersmith be a bird who make a noise exactly like the beating of a little hammer on a copper pot ; and the reason he be always make it be because he be the town crier to every Indian garden , and tell all the news to everybody who care to listen .
As Rikki-tikki go up the path , he hear his `` attention '' note like a tiny dinner gong , and then the steady `` Ding-dong-tock !
Nag be dead -- dong !
Nagaina be dead !
Ding-dong-tock ! ''
That set all the bird in the garden singing , and the frog croaking , for Nag and Nagaina use to eat frog as well a little bird .
When Rikki get to the house , Teddy and Teddy 's mother -LRB- she look very white still , for she have be faint -RRB- and Teddy 's father come out and almost cry over him ; and that night he eat all that be give him till he could eat no more , and go to bed on Teddy 's shoulder , where Teddy 's mother saw him when she come to look late at night .
`` He save our life and Teddy 's life , '' she say to her husband .
`` Just think , he save all our life . ''
Rikki-tikki wake up with a jump , for the mongoose be light sleeper .
`` Oh , it 's you , '' say he .
`` What be you bother for ?
All the cobra be dead .
And if they be n't , I 'm here . ''
Rikki-tikki have a right to be proud of himself .
But he do not grow too proud , and he keep that garden a a mongoose should keep it , with tooth and jump and spring and bite , till never a cobra dare show it head inside the wall .
Darzee 's Chant -LRB- Sung in honor of Rikki-tikki-tavi -RRB- Singer and tailor be I -- Doubled the joy that I know -- Proud of my lilt to the sky , Proud of the house that I sew -- Over and under , so weave I my music -- so weave I the house that I sew .
Sing to your fledgling again , Mother , oh lift up your head !
Evil that plague u be slain , Death in the garden lie dead .
Terror that hide in the rose be impotent -- flung on the dung-hill and dead !
Who have deliver u , who ?
Tell me his nest and his name .
Rikki , the valiant , the true , Tikki , with eyeball of flame , Rikk-tikki-tikki , the ivory-fanged , the hunter with eyeball of flame !
Give him the Thanks of the Birds , Bowing with tail feather spread !
Praise him with nightingale word -- Nay , I will praise him instead .
Hear !
I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki , with eyeball of red !
-LRB- Here Rikki-tikki interrupted , and the rest of the song be lose . -RRB-
Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I be , I be sick of rope and chain -- I will remember my old strength and all my forest affair .
I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lair .
I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
I will revisit my lost love , and playmates masterless !
Kala Nag , which mean Black Snake , have serve the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven year , and a he be fully twenty year old when he be catch , that make him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
He remember push , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that be before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he have not then come to his full strength .
His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who have be catch in the same drive with Kala Nag , tell him , before his little milk tusk have drop out , that elephant who be afraid always get hurt .
Kala Nag know that that advice be good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he back , scream , into a stand of piled rifle , and the bayonet prick him in all his soft place .
So , before he be twenty-five , he give up be afraid , and so he be the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
He have carry tent , twelve hundred pound ' weight of tent , on the march in Upper India .
He have be hoist into a ship at the end of a steam crane and take for day across the water , and make to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and have see the Emperor Theodore lie dead in Magdala , and have come back again in the steamer entitle , so the soldier say , to the Abyssinian War medal .
He have see his fellow elephant die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place call Ali Musjid , ten year later ; and afterward he have be send down thousand of mile south to haul and pile big balk of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
There he have half kill an insubordinate young elephant who be shirk his fair share of work .
After that he be take off timber-hauling , and employ , with a few score other elephant who be train to the business , in help to catch wild elephant among the Garo hill .
Elephants be very strictly preserve by the Indian Government .
There be one whole department which do nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country a they be need for work .
Kala Nag stand ten fair foot at the shoulder , and his tusk have be cut off short at five foot , and bound round the end , to prevent them split , with band of copper ; but he could do more with those stump than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened one .
When , after week and week of cautious driving of scattered elephant across the hill , the forty or fifty wild monster be drive into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , make of tree trunk lash together , jar down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpet pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torch make it difficult to judge distance -RRB- , and , pick out the big and wild tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the back of the other elephant rope and tie the small one .
There be nothing in the way of fight that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , do not know , for he have stand up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curl up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , have knock the spring brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he have invent all by himself ; have knock him over , and kneel upon him with his huge knee till the life go out with a gasp and a howl , and there be only a fluffy strip thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
`` Yes , '' say Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who have take him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who have see him caught , `` there be nothing that the Black Snake fear except me .
He have see three generation of u fee him and groom him , and he will live to see four . ''
`` He be afraid of me also , '' say Little Toomai , stand up to his full height of four foot , with only one rag upon him .
He be ten year old , the eldest son of Big Toomai , and , accord to custom , he would take his father 's place on Kala Nag 's neck when he grow up , and would handle the heavy iron ankus , the elephant goad , that have be wear smooth by his father , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfather .
He know what he be talk of ; for he have be bear under Kala Nag 's shadow , have play with the end of his trunk before he could walk , have take him down to water as soon a he could walk , and Kala Nag would no more have dream of disobey his shrill little order than he would have dream of kill him on that day when Big Toomai carry the little brown baby under Kala Nag 's tusk , and tell him to salute his master that be to be .
`` Yes , '' say Little Toomai , `` he be afraid of me , '' and he take long stride up to Kala Nag , call him a fat old pig , and make him lift up his foot one after the other .
`` Wah ! ''
say Little Toomai , `` thou art a big elephant , '' and he wag his fluffy head , quote his father .
`` The Government may pay for elephant , but they belong to u mahout .
When thou art old , Kala Nag , there will come some rich rajah , and he will buy thee from the Government , on account of thy size and thy manner , and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earring in thy ear , and a gold howdah on thy back , and a red cloth cover with gold on thy side , and walk at the head of the procession of the King .
Then I shall sit on thy neck , O Kala Nag , with a silver ankus , and men will run before u with golden stick , cry , ` Room for the King 's elephant ! '
That will be good , Kala Nag , but not so good a this hunting in the jungle . ''
`` Umph ! ''
say Big Toomai .
`` Thou art a boy , and as wild a a buffalo-calf .
This run up and down among the hill be not the best Government service .
I be get old , and I do not love wild elephant .
Give me brick elephant line , one stall to each elephant , and big stump to tie them to safely , and flat , broad road to exercise upon , instead of this come-and-go camping .
Aha , the Cawnpore barrack be good .
There be a bazaar close by , and only three hour ' work a day . ''
Little Toomai remember the Cawnpore elephant-lines and say nothing .
He very much prefer the camp life , and hat those broad , flat road , with the daily grubbing for grass in the forage reserve , and the long hour when there be nothing to do except to watch Kala Nag fidget in his picket .
What Little Toomai like be to scramble up bridle path that only an elephant could take ; the dip into the valley below ; the glimpse of the wild elephant browse mile away ; the rush of the frightened pig and peacock under Kala Nag 's foot ; the blinding warm rain , when all the hill and valley smoke ; the beautiful misty morning when nobody know where they would camp that night ; the steady , cautious drive of the wild elephant , and the mad rush and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night 's drive , when the elephant pour into the stockade like boulder in a landslide , find that they could not get out , and fling themselves at the heavy post only to be drive back by yell and flare torch and volley of blank cartridge .
Even a little boy could be of use there , and Toomai be as useful a three boy .
He would get his torch and wave it , and yell with the best .
But the really good time come when the drive out begin , and the Keddah -- that be , the stockade -- look like a picture of the end of the world , and men have to make sign to one another , because they could not hear themselves speak .
Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quiver stockade post , his sun-bleached brown hair fly loose all over his shoulder , and he look like a goblin in the torch-light .
And as soon a there be a lull you could hear his high-pitched yell of encouragement to Kala Nag , above the trumpeting and crashing , and snapping of rope , and groan of the tethered elephant .
`` Mael , mael , Kala Nag !
-LRB- Go on , go on , Black Snake ! -RRB-
Dant do !
-LRB- Give him the tusk ! -RRB-
Somalo !
Somalo !
-LRB- Careful , careful ! -RRB-
Maro !
Mar !
-LRB- Hit him , hit him ! -RRB-
Mind the post !
Arre !
Arre !
Hai !
Yai !
Kya-a-ah ! ''
he would shout , and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to and fro across the Keddah , and the old elephant catcher would wipe the sweat out of their eye , and find time to nod to Little Toomai wriggle with joy on the top of the post .
He do more than wriggle .
One night he slide down from the post and slip in between the elephant and throw up the loose end of a rope , which have drop , to a driver who be try to get a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf -LRB- calf always give more trouble than full-grown animal -RRB- .
Kala Nag saw him , catch him in his trunk , and hand him up to Big Toomai , who slap him then and there , and put him back on the post .
Next morning he give him a scolding and say , `` Are not good brick elephant line and a little tent carry enough , that thou must need go elephant catch on thy own account , little worthless ?
Now those foolish hunter , whose pay be less than my pay , have speak to Petersen Sahib of the matter . ''
Little Toomai be frighten .
He do not know much of white men , but Petersen Sahib be the great white man in the world to him .
He be the head of all the Keddah operation -- the man who catch all the elephant for the Government of India , and who know more about the way of elephant than any living man .
`` What -- what will happen ? ''
say Little Toomai .
`` Happen !
The bad that can happen .
Petersen Sahib be a madman .
Else why should he go hunt these wild devil ?
He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher , to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungle , and at last to be trample to death in the Keddah .
It be well that this nonsense end safely .
Next week the catching be over , and we of the plain be send back to our station .
Then we will march on smooth road , and forget all this hunting .
But , son , I be angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belong to these dirty Assamese jungle folk .
Kala Nag will obey none but me , so I must go with him into the Keddah , but he be only a fighting elephant , and he do not help to rope them .
So I sit at my ease , a befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who get a pension at the end of his service .
Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
Bad one !
Wicked one !
Worthless son !
Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ear , and see that there be no thorn in his foot .
Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant 's foot track , a jungle bear .
Bah !
Shame !
Go ! ''
Little Toomai go off without say a word , but he tell Kala Nag all his grievance while he be examine his foot .
`` No matter , '' say Little Toomai , turn up the fringe of Kala Nag 's huge right ear .
`` They have say my name to Petersen Sahib , and perhaps -- and perhaps -- and perhaps -- who know ?
Hai !
That be a big thorn that I have pull out ! ''
The next few day be spend in get the elephant together , in walk the newly catch wild elephant up and down between a couple of tame one to prevent them give too much trouble on the downward march to the plain , and in take stock of the blanket and rope and thing that have be wear out or lose in the forest .
Petersen Sahib come in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini ; he have be pay off other camp among the hill , for the season be come to an end , and there be a native clerk sit at a table under a tree , to pay the driver their wage .
As each man be pay he go back to his elephant , and join the line that stand ready to start .
The catcher , and hunter , and beater , the men of the regular Keddah , who stay in the jungle year in and year out , sit on the back of the elephant that belong to Petersen Sahib 's permanent force , or lean against the tree with their gun across their arm , and make fun of the driver who be go away , and laugh when the newly catch elephant break the line and run about .
Big Toomai go up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him , and Machua Appa , the head tracker , say in an undertone to a friend of his , `` There go one piece of good elephant stuff at least .
'T be a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plain . ''
Now Petersen Sahib have ear all over him , a a man must have who listen to the most silent of all living thing -- the wild elephant .
He turn where he be lie all along on Pudmini 's back and say , `` What be that ?
I do not know of a man among the plains-drivers who have wit enough to rope even a dead elephant . ''
`` This be not a man , but a boy .
He go into the Keddah at the last drive , and throw Barmao there the rope , when we be try to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother . ''
Machua Appa point at Little Toomai , and Petersen Sahib look , and Little Toomai bow to the earth .
`` He throw a rope ?
He be small than a picket-pin .
Little one , what be thy name ? ''
say Petersen Sahib .
Little Toomai be too frighten to speak , but Kala Nag be behind him , and Toomai make a sign with his hand , and the elephant caught him up in his trunk and hold him level with Pudmini 's forehead , in front of the great Petersen Sahib .
Then Little Toomai cover his face with his hand , for he be only a child , and except where elephant be concerned , he be just as bashful a a child could be .
`` Oho ! ''
say Petersen Sahib , smile underneath his mustache , `` and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick ?
Was it to help thee steal green corn from the roof of the house when the ear be put out to dry ? ''
`` Not green corn , Protector of the Poor , -- melon , '' say Little Toomai , and all the men sit about broke into a roar of laughter .
Most of them have teach their elephant that trick when they be boy .
Little Toomai be hang eight foot up in the air , and he wish very much that he be eight foot underground .
`` He be Toomai , my son , Sahib , '' say Big Toomai , scowl .
`` He be a very bad boy , and he will end in a jail , Sahib . ''
`` Of that I have my doubt , '' say Petersen Sahib .
`` A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age do not end in jail .
See , little one , here be four anna to spend in sweetmeat because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair .
In time thou mayest become a hunter too . ''
Big Toomai scowl more than ever .
`` Remember , though , that Keddahs be not good for child to play in , '' Petersen Sahib go on .
`` Must I never go there , Sahib ? ''
ask Little Toomai with a big gasp .
`` Yes . ''
Petersen Sahib smile again .
`` When thou hast see the elephant dance .
That be the proper time .
Come to me when thou hast see the elephant dance , and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs . ''
There be another roar of laughter , for that be an old joke among elephant-catchers , and it mean just never .
There be great cleared flat place hide away in the forest that be call elephant ' ball-rooms , but even these be only find by accident , and no man have ever see the elephant dance .
When a driver boast of his skill and bravery the other driver say , `` And when didst thou see the elephant dance ? ''
Kala Nag put Little Toomai down , and he bow to the earth again and go away with his father , and give the silver four-anna piece to his mother , who be nurse his baby brother , and they all be put up on Kala Nag 's back , and the line of grunting , squeal elephant roll down the hill path to the plain .
It be a very lively march on account of the new elephant , who give trouble at every ford , and need coaxing or beating every other minute .
Big Toomai prod Kala Nag spitefully , for he be very angry , but Little Toomai be too happy to speak .
Petersen Sahib have notice him , and give him money , so he felt a a private soldier would feel if he have be call out of the rank and praise by his commander-in-chief .
`` What do Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance ? ''
he say , at last , softly to his mother .
Big Toomai hear him and grunt .
`` That thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffalo of tracker .
That be what he mean .
Oh , you in front , what be block the way ? ''
An Assamese driver , two or three elephant ahead , turn round angrily , cry : `` Bring up Kala Nag , and knock this youngster of mine into good behavior .
Why should Petersen Sahib have choose me to go down with you donkey of the rice field ?
Lay your beast alongside , Toomai , and let him prod with his tusk .
By all the Gods of the Hills , these new elephant be possess , or else they can smell their companion in the jungle . ''
Kala Nag hit the new elephant in the rib and knock the wind out of him , a Big Toomai say , `` We have sweep the hill of wild elephant at the last catch .
It be only your carelessness in driving .
Must I keep order along the whole line ? ''
`` Hear him ! ''
say the other driver .
`` We have sweep the hill !
Ho !
Ho !
You be very wise , you plain people .
Anyone but a mud-head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that the drive be end for the season .
Therefore all the wild elephant to-night will -- but why should I waste wisdom on a river-turtle ? ''
`` What will they do ? ''
Little Toomai call out .
`` Ohe , little one .
Art thou there ?
Well , I will tell thee , for thou hast a cool head .
They will dance , and it behoove thy father , who have sweep all the hill of all the elephant , to double-chain his picket to-night . ''
`` What talk be this ? ''
say Big Toomai .
`` For forty year , father and son , we have tend elephant , and we have never hear such moonshine about dance . ''
`` Yes ; but a plainsman who live in a hut know only the four wall of his hut .
Well , leave thy elephant unshackled tonight and see what come .
As for their dancing , I have see the place where -- Bapree-bap !
How many winding have the Dihang River ?
Here be another ford , and we must swim the calf .
Stop still , you behind there . ''
And in this way , talk and wrangling and splash through the river , they make their first march to a sort of receive camp for the new elephant .
But they lose their temper long before they get there .
Then the elephant be chain by their hind leg to their big stump of picket , and extra rope be fit to the new elephant , and the fodder be pile before them , and the hill driver go back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light , tell the plain driver to be extra careful that night , and laugh when the plain driver ask the reason .
Little Toomai attend to Kala Nag 's supper , and a evening fell , wander through the camp , unspeakably happy , in search of a tom-tom .
When an Indian child 's heart be full , he do not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion .
He sit down to a sort of revel all by himself .
And Little Toomai have be speak to by Petersen Sahib !
If he have not find what he want , I believe he would have be ill .
But the sweetmeat seller in the camp lend him a little tom-tom -- a drum beaten with the flat of the hand -- and he sit down , cross-legged , before Kala Nag a the star begin to come out , the tom-tom in his lap , and he thump and he thump and he thump , and the more he think of the great honor that have be do to him , the more he thump , all alone among the elephant fodder .
There be no tune and no word , but the thumping make him happy .
The new elephant strain at their rope , and squeal and trumpet from time to time , and he could hear his mother in the camp hut put his small brother to sleep with an old , old song about the great God Shiv , who once tell all the animal what they should eat .
It be a very soothing lullaby , and the first verse say : Shiv , who pour the harvest and make the wind to blow , Sitting at the doorway of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
All thing make he -- Shiva the Preserver .
Mahadeo !
Mahadeo !
He make all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
Little Toomai come in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretch himself on the fodder at Kala Nag 's side .
At last the elephant begin to lie down one after another a be their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line be leave stand up ; and he rock slowly from side to side , his ear put forward to listen to the night wind a it blow very slowly across the hill .
The air be full of all the night noise that , take together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- bird be awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he wake it be brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag be still stand up with his ear cock .
Little Toomai turn , rustle in the fodder , and watch the curve of his big back against half the star in heaven , and while he watch he hear , so far away that it sound no more than a pinhole of noise prick through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
All the elephant in the line jump up a if they have be shoot , and their grunt at last wake the sleeping mahout , and they come out and drive in the picket peg with big mallet , and tighten this rope and knot that till all be quiet .
One new elephant have nearly grub up his picket , and Big Toomai take off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackle that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slip a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and tell him to remember that he be tie fast .
He know that he and his father and his grandfather have do the very same thing hundred of time before .
Kala Nag do not answer to the order by gurgle , a he usually do .
He stand still , look out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ear spread like fan , up to the great fold of the Garo hill .
`` Tend to him if he grow restless in the night , '' say Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he go into the hut and slept .
Little Toomai be just go to sleep , too , when he hear the coir string snap with a little `` tang , '' and Kala Nag roll out of his picket a slowly and as silently a a cloud roll out of the mouth of a valley .
Little Toomai patter after him , barefooted , down the road in the moonlight , call under his breath , `` Kala Nag !
Kala Nag !
Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
The elephant turn , without a sound , take three stride back to the boy in the moonlight , put down his trunk , swing him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai have settle his knee , slip into the forest .
There be one blast of furious trumpet from the line , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag begin to move .
Sometimes a tuft of high grass wash along his side a a wave wash along the side of a ship , and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vine would scrape along his back , or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touch it .
But between those time he move absolutely without any sound , drift through the thick Garo forest a though it have be smoke .
He be go uphill , but though Little Toomai watch the star in the rift of the tree , he could not tell in what direction .
Then Kala Nag reach the crest of the ascent and stop for a minute , and Little Toomai could see the top of the tree lie all speckle and furry under the moonlight for mile and mile , and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow .
Toomai lean forward and look , and he felt that the forest be awake below him -- awake and alive and crowd .
A big brown fruit-eating bat brush past his ear ; a porcupine 's quill rattle in the thicket ; and in the darkness between the tree stem he hear a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth , and snuff a it digged .
Then the branch close over his head again , and Kala Nag begin to go down into the valley -- not quietly this time , but a a runaway gun go down a steep bank -- in one rush .
The huge limb move as steadily a piston , eight foot to each stride , and the wrinkled skin of the elbow point rustle .
The undergrowth on either side of him rip with a noise like torn canvas , and the sapling that he heave away right and leave with his shoulder spring back again and bang him on the flank , and great trail of creeper , all mat together , hung from his tusk a he throw his head from side to side and plow out his pathway .
Then Little Toomai lay himself down close to the great neck l a swing bough should sweep him to the ground , and he wish that he be back in the line again .
The grass begin to get squashy , and Kala Nag 's foot suck and squelch a he put them down , and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chill Little Toomai .
There be a splash and a trample , and the rush of run water , and Kala Nag stride through the bed of a river , feel his way at each step .
Above the noise of the water , a it swirl round the elephant 's leg , Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpet both upstream and down -- great grunt and angry snorting , and all the mist about him seem to be full of roll , wavy shadow .
`` Ai ! ''
he say , half aloud , his teeth chattering .
`` The elephant-folk be out tonight .
It be the dance , then ! ''
Kala Nag swash out of the water , blow his trunk clear , and begin another climb .
But this time he be not alone , and he have not to make his path .
That be make already , six foot wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle-grass be try to recover itself and stand up .
Many elephant must have go that way only a few minute before .
Little Toomai look back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig 's eye glow like hot coal be just lift himself out of the misty river .
Then the tree close up again , and they go on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of break branch on every side of them .
At last Kala Nag stand still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill .
They be part of a circle of tree that grow round an irregular space of some three or four acre , and in all that space , a Little Toomai could see , the ground have be trample down as hard a a brick floor .
Some tree grow in the center of the clearing , but their bark be rub away , and the white wood beneath show all shiny and polish in the patch of moonlight .
There be creeper hang from the upper branch , and the bell of the flower of the creeper , great waxy white thing like convolvulus , hang down fast asleep .
But within the limit of the clearing there be not a single blade of green -- nothing but the trampled earth .
The moonlight show it all iron gray , except where some elephant stand upon it , and their shadow be inky black .
Little Toomai look , hold his breath , with his eye start out of his head , and a he look , more and more and more elephant swing out into the open from between the tree trunk .
Little Toomai could only count up to ten , and he count again and again on his finger till he lose count of the ten , and his head begin to swim .
Outside the clearing he could hear them crash in the undergrowth a they work their way up the hillside , but as soon a they be within the circle of the tree trunk they move like ghost .
There be white-tusked wild male , with fall leaf and nut and twig lie in the wrinkle of their neck and the fold of their ear ; fat , slow-footed she-elephants , with restless , little pinky black calf only three or four foot high run under their stomach ; young elephant with their tusk just begin to show , and very proud of them ; lanky , scraggy old-maid elephant , with their hollow anxious face , and trunk like rough bark ; savage old bull elephant , scar from shoulder to flank with great weal and cut of bygone fight , and the caked dirt of their solitary mud bath drop from their shoulder ; and there be one with a broken tusk and the mark of the full-stroke , the terrible drawing scrape , of a tiger 's claw on his side .
They be stand head to head , or walk to and fro across the ground in couple , or rock and sway all by themselves -- score and score of elephant .
