I be answer .
Is it permit to ask a question ? '
The lama incline his stately head . '
I eat thy bread for three year -- a thou knowest .
Holy One , whence come -- ? '
` There be much wealth , a men count it , in Bhotiyal , ' the lama return with composure .
` In my own place I have the illusion of honour .
I ask for that I need .
I be not concern with the account .
That be for my monastery .
Ai !
The black high seat in the monastery , and novice all in order ! '
And he tell story , trace with a finger in the dust , of the immense and sumptuous ritual of avalanche-guarded cathedral ; of procession and devil-dances ; of the changing of monk and nun into swine ; of holy city fifteen thousand foot in the air ; of intrigue between monastery and monastery ; of voice among the hill , and of that mysterious mirage that dance on dry snow .
He speak even of Lhassa and of the Dalai Lama , whom he have see and adore .
Each long , perfect day rise behind Kim for a barrier to cut him off from his race and his mother-tongue .
He slip back to thinking and dreaming in the vernacular , and mechanically follow the lama 's ceremonial observance at eating , drinking , and the like .
The old man 's mind turn more and more to his monastery a his eye turn to the steadfast snow .
His River trouble him nothing .
Now and again , indeed , he would gaze long and long at a tuft or a twig , expect , he say , the earth to cleave and deliver it blessing ; but he be content to be with his disciple , at ease in the temperate wind that come down from the Doon .
This be not Ceylon , nor Buddh Gaya , nor Bombay , nor some grass-tangled ruin that he seem to have stumble upon two year ago .
He speak of those place a a scholar remove from vanity , a a Seeker walking in humility , a an old man , wise and temperate , illumine knowledge with brilliant insight .
Bit by bit , disconnectedly , each tale call up by some wayside thing , he speak of all his wandering up and down Hind ; till Kim , who have love him without reason , now love him for fifty good reason .
So they enjoy themselves in high felicity , abstain , a the Rule demand , from evil word , covetous desire ; not over-eating , not lie on high bed , nor wear rich clothes .
Their stomach tell them the time , and the people bring them their food , a the saying be .
They be lord of the village of Aminabad , Sahaigunge , Akrola of the Ford , and little Phulesa , where Kim give the soulless woman a blessing .
But news travel fast in India , and too soon shuffled across the crop-land , bear a basket of fruit with a box of Kabul grape and gilt orange , a white-whiskered servitor -- a lean , dry Oorya -- beg them to bring the honour of their presence to his mistress , distress in her mind that the lama have neglect her so long .
` Now do I remember ' -- the lama spoke a though it be a wholly new proposition .
` She be virtuous , but an inordinate talker . '
Kim be sit on the edge of a cow 's manger , tell story to a village smith 's child .
` She will only ask for another son for her daughter .
I have not forget her , ' he say .
` Let her acquire merit .
Send word that we will come . '
They cover eleven mile through the field in two day , and be overwhelm with attention at the end ; for the old lady hold a fine tradition of hospitality , to which she force her son-in-law , who be under the thumb of his women-folk and buy peace by borrow of the money-lender .
Age have not weaken her tongue or her memory , and from a discreetly bar upper window , in the hearing of not less than a dozen servant , she pay Kim compliment that would have fling European audience into unclean dismay .
` But thou art still the shameless beggar-brat of the parao , ' she shrill . '
I have not forget thee .
Wash ye and eat .
The father of my daughter 's son be go away awhile .
So we poor woman be dumb and useless . '
For proof , she harangue the entire household unsparingly till food and drink be bring ; and in the evening -- the smoke-scented evening , copper-dun and turquoise across the field -- it please her to order her palanquin to be set down in the untidy forecourt by smoky torchlight ; and there , behind not too closely drawn curtain , she gossip .
` Had the Holy One come alone , I should have receive him otherwise ; but with this rogue , who can be too careful ? '
` Maharanee , ' say Kim , choose a always the ample title , ` be it my fault that none other than a Sahib -- a polis-Sahib -- call the Maharanee whose face he -- ' ` Chutt !
That be on the pilgrimage .
When we travel -- thou knowest the proverb . '
` Called the Maharanee a Breaker of Hearts and a Dispenser of Delights ? '
` To remember that !
It be true .
So he do .
That be in the time of the bloom of my beauty . '
She chuckle like a contented parrot above the sugar lump .
` Now tell me of thy going and coming -- as much a may be without shame .
How many maid , and whose wife , hang upon thine eyelash ?
Ye hail from Benares ?
I would have go there again this year , but my daughter -- we have only two son .
Phaii !
Such be the effect of these low plain .
Now in Kulu men be elephant .
But I would ask thy Holy One -- stand aside , rogue -- a charm against most lamentable windy colic that in mango-time overtake my daughter 's eldest .
Two year back he give me a powerful spell . '
` Oh , Holy One ! '
say Kim , bubble with mirth at the lama 's rueful face .
` It be true .
I give her one against wind . '
` Teeth -- teeth -- teeth , ' snap the old woman . ''
` Cure them if they be sick , '' ' Kim quote relishingly , '' ` but by no mean work charm .
Remember what befall the Mahratta . '' '
` That be two Rains ago ; she weary me with her continual importunity . '
The lama groan a the Unjust Judge have groan before him .
` Thus it come -- take note , my chela -- that even those who would follow the Way be thrust aside by idle woman .
Three day through , when the child be sick , she talk to me . '
` Arre !
and to whom else should I talk ?
The boy 's mother know nothing , and the father -- in the night of the cold weather it be -- `` Pray to the Gods , '' say he , forsooth , and turn over , snored ! ' '
I give her the charm .
What be an old man to do ? ' ''
` To abstain from action be well -- except to acquire merit . '' '
` Ah chela , if thou desertest me , I be all alone . '
` He find his milk-teeth easily at any rate , ' say the old lady .
` But all priest be alike . '
Kim cough severely .
Being young , he do not approve of her flippancy .
` To importune the wise out of season be to invite calamity . '
` There be a talk mynah ' -- the thrust come back with the well-remembered snap of the jewelled fore-finger -- ` over the stable which have pick up the very tone of the family priest .
Maybe I forget honour to my guest , but if ye have see him double his fist into his belly , which be like a half-grown gourd , and cry : `` Here be the pain ! ''
ye would forgive .
I be half mind to take the hakim 's medicine .
He sell it cheap , and certainly it make him fat a Shiv 's own bull .
He do not deny remedy , but I doubt for the child because of the in-auspicious colour of the bottle . '
The lama , under cover of the monologue , have fade out into the darkness towards the room prepare .
` Thou hast anger him , belike , ' say Kim .
` Not he .
He be weary , and I forget , be a grandmother .
-LRB- None but a grandmother should ever oversee a child .
Mothers be only fit for bear . -RRB-
Tomorrow , when he see how my daughter 's son be grow , he will write the charm .
Then , too , he can judge of the new hakim 's drug . '
` Who be the hakim , Maharanee ? ' '
A wanderer , a thou art , but a most sober Bengali from Dacca -- a master of medicine .
He relieve me of an oppression after meat by mean of a small pill that work like a devil unchain .
He travel about now , vend preparation of great value .
He have even paper , print in Angrezi , tell what thing he have do for weak-backed men and slack woman .
He have be here four day ; but hear ye be come -LRB- hakim and priest be snake and tiger the world over -RRB- he have , a I take it , go to cover . '
While she draw breath after this volley , the ancient servant , sit unrebuked on the edge of the torchlight , mutter : ` This house be a cattle-pound , a it be , for all charlatan and -- priest .
Let the boy stop eating mango ... but who can argue with a grandmother ? '
He raise his voice respectfully : ` Sahiba , the hakim sleep after his meat .
He be in the quarter behind the dovecote . '
Kim bristle like an expectant terrier .
To outface and down-talk a Calcutta-taught Bengali , a voluble Dacca drug-vendor , would be a good game .
It be not seemly that the lama , and incidentally himself , should be throw aside for such an one .
He know those curious bastard English advertisement at the back of native newspaper .
St Xavier 's boy sometimes bring them in by stealth to snigger over among their mate ; for the language of the grateful patient recount his symptom be most simple and revealing .
The Oorya , not unanxious to play off one parasite against the other , slink away towards the dovecote .
` Yes , ' say Kim , with measure scorn .
` Their stock-in-trade be a little coloured water and a very great shamelessness .
Their prey be broken-down king and overfed Bengalis .
Their profit be in child -- who be not bear . '
The old lady chuckle .
` Do not be envious .
Charms be well , eh ?
I never gainsay it .
See that thy Holy One write me a good amulet by the morning . '
` None but the ignorant deny ' -- a thick , heavy voice boom through the darkness , a a figure come to rest squatting -- ` None but the ignorant deny the value of charm .
None but the ignorant deny the value of medicine . ' '
A rat find a piece of turmeric .
Said he : `` I will open a grocer 's shop , '' ' Kim retort .
Battle be fairly join now , and they hear the old lady stiffen to attention .
` The priest 's son know the name of his nurse and three Gods .
Says he : `` Hear me , or I will curse you by the three million Great Ones . '' '
Decidedly this invisible have an arrow or two in his quiver .
He go on : ' I be but a teacher of the alphabet .
I have learn all the wisdom of the Sahibs . '
` The Sahibs never grow old .
They dance and they play like child when they be grandfather .
A strong-backed breed , ' pip the voice inside the palanquin . '
I have , too , our drug which loosen humour of the head in hot and angry men .
Sina well compound when the moon stand in the proper House ; yellow earth I have -- arplan from China that make a man renew his youth and astonish his household ; saffron from Kashmir , and the best salep of Kabul .
Many people have die before -- ' ` That I surely believe , ' say Kim .
` They know the value of my drug .
I do not give my sick the mere ink in which a charm be write , but hot and rend drug which descend and wrestle with the evil . '
` Very mightily they do so , ' sigh the old lady .
The voice launch into an immense tale of misfortune and bankruptcy , stud with plentiful petition to the Government .
` But for my fate , which overrule all , I have be now in Government employ .
I bear a degree from the great school at Calcutta -- whither , maybe , the son of this House shall go . '
` He shall indeed .
If our neighbour 's brat can in a few year be make an F A ' -LRB- First Arts -- she use the English word , of which she have hear so often -RRB- , ` how much more shall child clever a some that I know bear away prize at rich Calcutta . '
` Never , ' say the voice , ` have I see such a child !
Born in an auspicious hour , and -- but for that colic which , ala !
turn into black choler , may carry him off like a pigeon -- destine to many year , he be enviable . '
` Hai mai ! '
say the old lady .
` To praise child be inauspicious , or I could listen to this talk .
But the back of the house be unguarded , and even in this soft air men think themselves to be men , and woman we know ... The child 's father be away too , and I must be chowkedar -LSB- watchman -RSB- in my old age .
Up !
Up !
Take up the palanquin .
Let the hakim and the young priest settle between them whether charm or medicine most avail .
Ho !
worthless people , fetch tobacco for the guest , and -- round the homestead go I ! '
The palanquin reel off , follow by straggle torch and a horde of dog .
Twenty villages know the Sahiba -- her failing , her tongue , and her large charity .
Twenty village cheat her after immemorial custom , but no man would have steal or rob within her jurisdiction for any gift under heaven .
None the less , she make great parade of her formal inspection , the riot of which could be hear half-way to Mussoorie .
Kim relax , a one augur must when he meet another .
The hakim , still squat , slide over his hookah with a friendly foot , and Kim pull at the good weed .
The hangers-on expect grave professional debate , and perhaps a little free doctoring .
` To discuss medicine before the ignorant be of one piece with teach the peacock to sing , ' say the hakim .
` True courtesy , ' Kim echoed , ` be very often inattention . '
These , be it understood , be company-manners , design to impress .
` Hi !
I have an ulcer on my leg , ' cry a scullion .
` Look at it ! '
` Get hence !
Remove ! '
say the hakim .
` Is it the habit of the place to pester honoured guest ?
Ye crowd in like buffalo . '
` If the Sahiba know -- ' Kim begin .
` Ai !
Ai !
Come away .
They be meat for our mistress .
When her young Shaitan 's colic be cure perhaps we poor people may be suffer to -- ' ` The mistress feed thy wife when thou wast in jail for break the money-lender 's head .
Who speak against her ? '
The old servitor curl his white moustache savagely in the young moonlight . '
I be responsible for the honour of this house .
Go ! '
and he drive the underling before him .
Said the hakim , hardly more than shape the word with his lip : ` How do you do , Mister O'Hara ?
I be jolly glad to see you again . '
Kim 's hand clench about the pipe-stem .
Anywhere on the open road , perhaps , he would not have be astonish ; but here , in this quiet backwater of life , he be not prepared for Hurree Babu .
It annoy him , too , that he have be hoodwink .
` Ah ha !
I tell you at Lucknow -- resurgam -- I shall rise again and you shall not know me .
How much do you bet -- eh ? '
He chew leisurely upon a few cardamom seed , but he breathe uneasily .
` But why come here , Babuji ? '
` Ah !
Thatt be the question , a Shakespeare hath it .
I come to congratulate you on your extraordinary effeecient performance at Delhi .
Oah !
I tell you we be all proud of you .
It be verree neat and handy .
Our mutual friend , he be old friend of mine .
He have be in some dam ' - tight place .
Now he will be in some more .
He tell me ; I tell Mr Lurgan ; and he be pleased you graduate so nicely .
All the Department be please . '
For the first time in his life , Kim thrill to the clean pride -LRB- it can be a deadly pitfall , none the less -RRB- of Departmental praise -- ensnare praise from an equal of work appreciate by fellow-workers .
Earth have nothing on the same plane to compare with it .
But , cry the Oriental in him , Babus do not travel far to retail compliment .
` Tell thy tale , Babu , ' he say authoritatively .
` Oah , it be nothing .
Onlee I be at Simla when the wire come in about what our mutual friend say he have hide , and old Creighton -- ' He look to see how Kim would take this piece of audacity .
` The Colonel Sahib , ' the boy from St Xavier 's correct .
` Of course .
He find me at a loose string , and I have to go down to Chitor to find that beastly letter .
I do not like the South -- too much railway travel ; but I draw good travelling allowance .
Ha !
Ha !
I meet our mutual at Delhi on the way back .
He lie quiett just now , and say Saddhu-disguise suit him to the ground .
Well , there I hear what you have do so well , so quickly , upon the instantaneous spur of the moment .
I tell our mutual you take the bally bun , by Jove !
It be splendid .
I come to tell you so . '
` Umm ! '
The frog be busy in the ditch , and the moon slide to her setting .
Some happy servant have go out to commune with the night and to beat upon a drum .
Kim 's next sentence be in the vernacular .
` How didst thou follow u ? '
` Oah .
Thatt be nothing .
I know from our mutual friend you go to Saharunpore .
So I come on .
Red Lamas be not inconspicuous person .
I buy myself my drug-box , and I be very good doctor really .
I go to Akrola of the Ford , and hear all about you , and I talk here and talk there .
All the common people know what you do .
I know when the hospitable old lady send the dooli .
They have great recollection of the old lama 's visit here .
I know old lady can not keep their hand from medicine .
So I be a doctor , and -- you hear my talk ?
I think it be verree good .
My word , Mister O'Hara , they know about you and the lama for fifty mile -- the common people .
So I come .
Do you mind ? '
` Babuji , ' say Kim , look up at the broad , grin face , ' I be a Sahib . '
` My dear Mister O'Hara -- ' ` And I hope to play the Great Game . '
` You be subordinate to me departmentally at present . '
` Then why talk like an ape in a tree ?
Men do not come after one from Simla and change their dress , for the sake of a few sweet word .
I be not a child .
Talk Hindi and let u get to the yolk of the egg .
Thou art here -- speak not one word of truth in ten .
Why art thou here ?
Give a straight answer . '
` That be so verree disconcerting of the Europeans , Mister O'Hara .
You should know a heap good at your time of life . '
` But I want to know , ' say Kim , laugh .
` If it be the Game , I may help .
How can I do anything if you bukh -LSB- babble -RSB- all round the shop ? '
Hurree Babu reach for the pipe , and suck it till it gurgle again .
` Now I will speak vernacular .
You sit tight , Mister O'Hara ... It concern the pedigree of a white stallion . '
` Still ?
That be finish long ago . '
` When everyone be dead the Great Game be finish .
Not before .
Listen to me till the end .
There be Five Kings who prepare a sudden war three year ago , when thou wast give the stallion 's pedigree by Mahbub Ali .
Upon them , because of that news , and ere they be ready , fell our Army . '
` Ay -- eight thousand men with gun .
I remember that night . '
` But the war be not push .
That be the Government custom .
The troop be recall because the Government believe the Five Kings be cow ; and it be not cheap to fee men among the high Passes .
Hilas and Bunar -- Rajahs with gun -- undertook for a price to guard the Passes against all come from the North .
They protest both fear and friendship . '
He break off with a giggle into English : ` Of course , I tell you this unoffeecially to elucidate political situation , Mister O'Hara .
Offeecially , I be debar from criticize any action of superior .
Now I go on .
-- This please the Government , anxious to avoid expense , and a bond be make for so many rupee a month that Hilas and Bunar should guard the Passes as soon a the State 's troop be withdraw .
At that time -- it be after we two meet -- I , who have be sell tea in Leh , become a clerk of account in the Army .
When the troop be withdraw , I be leave behind to pay the cooly who make new road in the Hills .
This road-making be part of the bond between Bunar , Hilas , and the Government . '
` So ?
And then ? ' '
I tell you , it be jolly-beastly cold up there too , after summer , ' say Hurree Babu confidentially . '
I be afraid these Bunar men would cut my throat every night for thee pay-chest .
My native sepoy-guard , they laugh at me !
By Jove !
I be such a fearful man .
Nevar mind thatt .
I go on colloquially ... I send word many time that these two Kings be sell to the North ; and Mahbub Ali , who be yet farther North , amply confirm it .
Nothing be do .
Only my foot be frozen , and a toe drop off .
I send word that the road for which I be pay money to the digger be be make for the foot of stranger and enemy . '
` For ? '
` For the Russians .
The thing be an open jest among the cooly .
Then I be call down to tell what I know by speech of tongue .
Mahbub come South too .
See the end !
Over the Passes this year after snow-melting ' -- he shiver afresh -- ` come two stranger under cover of shoot wild goat .
They bear gun , but they bear also chain and level and compass . '
` Oho !
The thing get clear . '
` They be well receive by Hilas and Bunar .
They make great promise ; they speak a the mouthpiece of a Kaisar with gift .
Up the valley , down the valley go they , say , `` Here be a place to build a breastwork ; here can ye pitch a fort .
Here can ye hold the road against an army '' -- the very road for which I pay out the rupee monthly .
The Government know , but do nothing .
The three other Kings , who be not pay for guard the Passes , tell them by runner of the bad faith of Bunar and Hilas .
When all the evil be do , look you -- when these two stranger with the level and the compass make the Five Kings to believe that a great army will sweep the Passes tomorrow or the next day -- Hill-people be all fool -- come the order to me , Hurree Babu , `` Go North and see what those stranger do . ''
I say to Creighton Sahib , `` This be not a lawsuit , that we go about to collect evidence . '' '
Hurree return to his English with a jerk : '' ` By Jove , '' I say , `` why the dooce do you not issue demi-offeecial order to some brave man to poison them , for an example ?
It be , if you permit the observation , most reprehensible laxity on your part . ''
And Colonel Creighton , he laugh at me !
It be all your beastly English pride .
You think no one dare conspire !
That be all tommy-rott . '
Kim smoke slowly , revolve the business , so far a he understand it , in his quick mind .
` Then thou go forth to follow the stranger ? '
` No .
To meet them .
They be come in to Simla to send down their horn and head to be dress at Calcutta .
They be exclusively sport gentleman , and they be allow special faceelities by the Government .
Of course , we always do that .
It be our British pride . '
` Then what be to fear from them ? '
` By Jove , they be not black people .
I can do all sort of thing with black people , of course .
They be Russians , and highly unscrupulous people .
I -- I do not want to consort with them without a witness . '
` Will they kill thee ? '
` Oah , thatt be nothing .
I be good enough Herbert Spencerian , I trust , to meet little thing like death , which be all in my fate , you know .
But -- but they may beat me . '
` Why ? '
Hurree Babu snap his finger with irritation .
` Of course I shall affeeliate myself to their camp in supernumerary capacity a perhaps interpreter , or person mentally impotent and hungree , or some such thing .
And then I must pick up what I can , I suppose .
That be a easy for me a play Mister Doctor to the old lady .
Onlee -- onlee -- you see , Mister O'Hara , I be unfortunately Asiatic , which be serious detriment in some respect .
And all-so I be Bengali -- a fearful man . '
` God make the Hare and the Bengali .
What shame ? '
say Kim , quote the proverb .
` It be process of Evolution , I think , from Primal Necessity , but the fact remain in all the cui bono .
I be , oh , awfully fearful !
-- I remember once they want to cut off my head on the road to Lhassa .
-LRB- No , I have never reach to Lhassa . -RRB-
I sit down and cried , Mister O'Hara , anticipate Chinese torture .
I do not suppose these two gentleman will torture me , but I like to provide for possible contingency with European assistance in emergency . '
He cough and spat out the cardamom .
` It be purely unoffeecial indent , to which you can say `` No , Babu '' .
If you have no press engagement with your old man -- perhaps you might divert him ; perhaps I can seduce his fancy -- I should like you to keep in Departmental touch with me till I find those sport cove .
I have great opeenion of you since I meet my friend at Delhi .
And also I will embody your name in my offeecial report when matter be finally adjudicate .
It will be a great feather in your cap .
That be why I come really . '
` Humph !
The end of the tale , I think , be true ; but what of the fore-part ? '
` About the Five Kings ?
Oah !
there be ever so much truth in it .
A lot more than you would suppose , ' say Hurree earnestly .
` You come -- eh ?
I go from here straight into the Doon .
It be verree verdant and paint mead .
I shall go to Mussoorie to good old Munsoorie Pahar , a the gentleman and lady say .
Then by Rampur into Chini .
That be the only way they can come .
I do not like wait in the cold , but we must wait for them .
I want to walk with them to Simla .
You see , one Russian be a Frenchman , and I know my French pretty well .
I have friend in Chandernagore . '
` He would certainly rejoice to see the Hills again , ' say Kim meditatively .
` All his speech these ten day past have be of little else .
If we go together -- ' ` Oah !
We can be quite stranger on the road , if your lama prefers .
I shall just be four or five mile ahead .
There be no hurry for Hurree -- that be an Europe pun , ha !
ha !
-- and you come after .
There be plenty of time ; they will plot and survey and map , of course .
I shall go tomorrow , and you the next day , if you choose .
Eh ?
You go think on it till morning .
By Jove , it be near morning now . '
He yawn ponderously , and with never a civil word lumber off to his sleeping-place .
But Kim sleep little , and his thought run in Hindustani : ` Well be the Game call great !
I be four day a scullion at Quetta , wait on the wife of the man whose book I steal .
And that be part of the Great Game !
From the South -- God know how far -- come up the Mahratta , play the Great Game in fear of his life .
Now I shall go far and far into the North play the Great Game .
Truly , it run like a shuttle throughout all Hind .
And my share and my joy ' -- he smile to the darkness -- ' I owe to the lama here .
Also to Mahbub Ali -- also to Creighton Sahib , but chiefly to the Holy One .
He be right -- a great and a wonderful world -- and I be Kim -- Kim -- Kim -- alone -- one person -- in the middle of it all .
But I will see these stranger with their level and chain ... ' ` What be the upshot of last night 's babble ? '
say the lama , after his orison .
` There come a stroll seller of drug -- a hanger-on of the Sahiba 's .
Him I abolish by argument and prayer , prove that our charm be worthy than his coloured water . '
` Alas , my charm !
Is the virtuous woman still bent upon a new one ? '
` Very strictly . '
` Then it must be write , or she will deafen me with her clamour . '
He fumble at his pencase .
` In the Plains , ' say Kim , ` be always too many people .
In the Hills , a I understand , there be few . '
` Oh !
the Hills , and the snow upon the Hills . '
The lami tear off a tiny square of paper fit to go in an amulet .
` But what dost thou know of the Hills ? '
` They be very close . '
Kim thrust open the door and look at the long , peaceful line of the Himalayas flush in morning-gold .
` Except in the dress of a Sahib , I have never set foot among them . '
The lama snuff the wind wistfully .
` If we go North , ' -- Kim put the question to the waking sunrise -- ` would not much mid-day heat be avoid by walk among the low hill at least ?
... Is the charm make , Holy One ? ' '
I have write the name of seven silly devil -- not one of whom be worth a grain of dust in the eye .
Thus do foolish woman drag u from the Way ! '
Hurree Babu come out from behind the dovecote wash his teeth with ostentatious ritual .
Full-fleshed , heavy-haunched , bull-necked , and deep-voiced , he do not look like ' a fearful man ' .
Kim sign almost imperceptibly that matter be in good train , and when the morning toilet be over , Hurree Babu , in flowery speech , come to do honour to the lama .
They eat , of course , apart , and afterwards the old lady , more or less veil behind a window , return to the vital business of green-mango colic in the young .
The lama 's knowledge of medicine be , of course , sympathetic only .
He believe that the dung of a black horse , mixed with sulphur , and carry in a snake-skin , be a sound remedy for cholera ; but the symbolism interest him far more than the science .
Hurree Babu defer to these view with enchant politeness , so that the lama call him a courteous physician .
Hurree Babu reply that he be no more than an inexpert dabbler in the mystery ; but at least -- he thank the Gods therefore -- he know when he sit in the presence of a master .
He himself have be teach by the Sahibs , who do not consider expense , in the lordly hall of Calcutta ; but , a he be ever first to acknowledge , there lay a wisdom behind earthly wisdom -- the high and lonely lore of meditation .
Kim look on with envy .
The Hurree Babu of his knowledge -- oily , effusive , and nervous -- be go ; go , too , be the brazen drug-vendor of overnight .
There remain -- polished , polite , attentive -- a sober , learn son of experience and adversity , gather wisdom from the lama 's lip .
The old lady confide to Kim that these rare level be beyond her .
She like charm with plenty of ink that one could wash off in water , swallow , and be do with .
Else what be the use of the Gods ?
She like men and woman , and she speak of them -- of kinglet she have know in the past ; of her own youth and beauty ; of the depredation of leopard and the eccentricity of love Asiatic ; of the incidence of taxation , rack-renting , funeral ceremony , her son-in-law -LRB- this by allusion , easy to be follow -RRB- , the care of the young , and the age 's lack of decency .
And Kim , a interested in the life of this world a she soon to leave it , squat with his foot under the hem of his robe , drink all in , while the lama demolish one after another every theory of body-curing put forward by Hurree Babu .
At noon the Babu strap up his brass-bound drug-box , take his patent-leather shoe of ceremony in one hand , a gay blue-and-white umbrella in the other , and set off northward to the Doon , where , he say , he be in demand among the less king of those part .
` We will go in the cool of the evening , chela , ' say the lama .
` That doctor , learn in physic and courtesy , affirm that the people among these low hill be devout , generous , and much in need of a teacher .
In a very short time -- so say the hakim -- we come to cool air and the smell of pine . '
` Ye go to the Hills ?
And by Kulu road ?
Oh , thrice happy ! '
shrill the old lady .
` But that I be a little pressed with the care of the homestead I would take palanquin ... but that would be shameless , and my reputation would be crack .
Ho !
Ho !
I know the road -- every march of the road I know .
Ye will find charity throughout -- it be not deny to the well-looking .
I will give order for provision .
A servant to set you forth upon your journey ?
No ... Then I will at least cook ye good food . '
` What a woman be the Sahiba ! '
say the white-bearded Oorya , when a tumult rise by the kitchen quarter .
` She have never forget a friend : she have never forget an enemy in all her year .
And her cookery -- wah ! '
He rub his slim stomach .
There be cake , there be sweetmeat , there be cold fowl stew to rag with rice and prune -- enough to burden Kim like a mule . '
I be old and useless , ' she say .
` None now love me -- and none respect -- but there be few to compare with me when I call on the Gods and squat to my cooking-pots .
Come again , O people of good will .
Holy One and disciple , come again .
The room be always prepare ; the welcome be always ready ... See the woman do not follow thy chela too openly .
I know the woman of Kulu .
Take heed , chela , lest he run away when he smell his Hills again ... Hai !
Do not tilt the rice-bag upside down ... Bless the household , Holy One , and forgive thy servant her stupidity . '
She wipe her red old eye on a corner of her veil , and cluck throatily .
` Women talk , ' say the lama at last , ` but that be a woman 's infirmity .
I give her a charm .
She be upon the Wheel and wholly give over to the show of this life , but none the le , chela , she be virtuous , kindly , hospitable -- of a whole and zealous heart .
Who shall say she do not acquire merit ? '
` Not I , Holy One , ' say Kim , reslinging the bountiful provision on his shoulder .
` In my mind -- behind my eye -- I have try to picture such an one altogether freed from the Wheel -- desire nothing , cause nothing -- a nun , a it be . '
` And , O imp ? '
The lama almost laugh aloud . '
I can not make the picture . '
` Nor I .
But there be many , many million of life before her .
She will get wisdom a little , it may be , in each one . '
` And will she forget how to make stew with saffron upon that road ? '
` Thy mind be set on thing unworthy .
But she have skill .
I be refresh all over .
When we reach the low hill I shall be yet strong .
The hakim speak truly to me this morn when he say a breath from the snow blow away twenty year from the life of a man .
We will go up into the Hills -- the high hill -- up to the sound of snow-waters and the sound of the tree -- for a little while .
The hakim say that at any time we may return to the Plains , for we do no more than skirt the pleasant place .
The hakim be full of learn ; but he be in no way proud .
I speak to him -- when thou wast talk to the Sahiba -- of a certain dizziness that lay hold upon the back of my neck in the night , and he say it rise from excessive heat -- to be cure by cool air .
Upon consideration , I marvel that I have not think of such a simple remedy . '
` Didst thou tell him of thy Search ? '
say Kim , a little jealously .
He prefer to sway the lama by his own speech -- not through the wile of Hurree Babu .
` Assuredly .
I tell him of my dream , and of the manner by which I have acquire merit by cause thee to be taught wisdom . '
` Thou didst not say I be a Sahib ? '
` What need ?
I have tell thee many time we be but two soul seek escape .
He say -- and he be just herein -- that the River of Healing will break forth even a I dream -- at my foot , if need be .
Having find the Way , seest thou , that shall free me from the Wheel , need I trouble to find a way about the mere field of earth -- which be illusion ?
That be senseless .
I have my dream , night upon night repeat ; I have Jataka ; and I have thee , Friend of all the World .
It be write in thy horoscope that a Red Bull on a green field -- I have not forget -- should bring thee to honour .
Who but I saw that prophecy accomplish ?
Indeed , I be the instrument .
Thou shalt find me my River , be in return the instrument .
The Search be sure ! '
He set his ivory-yellow face , serene and untroubled , towards the beckoning Hills ; his shadow shoulder far before him in the dust .
Chapter 13 Who hath desire the Sea -- the immense and contemptuous surge ?
The shudder , the stumble , the swerve ere the star-stabbing bowsprit merges -- The orderly cloud of the Trades and the ridged roaring sapphire thereunder -- Unheralded cliff-lurking flaw and the head-sails ' low-volleying thunder ?
His Sea in no wonder the same -- his Sea and the same in each wonder -- His Sea that his be fulfils ?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise hill-men desire their hill !
The Sea and the Hills .
` Who go to the hill go to his mother . '
They have cross the Siwaliks and the half-tropical Doon , leave Mussoorie behind them , and head north along the narrow hill-roads .
Day after day they strike deeply into the huddled mountain , and day after day Kim watch the lama return to a man 's strength .
Among the terrace of the Doon he have lean on the boy 's shoulder , ready to profit by wayside halt .
Under the great ramp to Mussoorie he draw himself together a an old hunter face a well-remembered bank , and where he should have sunk exhaust swing his long drapery about him , draw a deep double-lungful of the diamond air , and walk a only a hillman can .
Kim , plains-bred and plains-fed , sweated and pant astonished .
` This be my country , ' say the lama .
` Beside Such-zen , this be flat than a rice-field ' ; and with steady , drive stroke from the loin he stride upwards .
But it be on the steep downhill march , three thousand foot in three hour , that he go utterly away from Kim , whose back ache with hold back , and whose big toe be nigh cut off by his grass sandal-string .
Through the speckled shadow of the great deodar-forests ; through oak feather and plume with fern ; birch , ilex , rhododendron , and pine , out on to the bare hillside ' slippery sunburnt grass , and back into the woodland ' coolth again , till oak give way to bamboo and palm of the valley , the lama swung untiring .
Glancing back in the twilight at the huge ridge behind him and the faint , thin line of the road whereby they have come , he would lay out , with a hillman 's generous breadth of vision , fresh march for the morrow ; or , halt in the neck of some uplifted pas that give on Spiti and Kulu , would stretch out his hand yearningly towards the high snow of the horizon .
In the dawn they flare windy-red above stark blue , a Kedarnath and Badrinath -- king of that wilderness -- take the first sunlight .
All day long they lay like molten silver under the sun , and at even put on their jewel again .
At first they breathe temperately upon the traveller , wind good to meet when one crawl over some gigantic hog 's - back ; but in a few day , at a height of nine or ten thousand foot , those breezes bit ; and Kim kindly allow a village of hillmen to acquire merit by give him a rough blanket-coat .
The lama be mildly surprised that anyone should object to the knife-edged breeze which have cut the year off his shoulder .
` These be but the low hill , chela .
There be no cold till we come to the true Hills . '
` Air and water be good , and the people be devout enough , but the food be very bad , ' Kim growl ; ` and we walk a though we be mad -- or English .
It freeze at night , too . ' '
A little , maybe ; but only enough to make old bone rejoice in the sun .
We must not always delight in soft bed and rich food . '
` We might at least keep to the road . '
Kim have all a plainsman 's affection for the well-trodden track , not six foot wide , that snake among the mountain ; but the lama , be Tibetan , could not refrain from short cut over spur and the rim of gravel-strewn slope .
As he explain to his limp disciple , a man breed among mountain can prophesy the course of a mountain-road , and though low-lying cloud might be a hindrance to a short-cutting stranger , they make no earthly difference to a thoughtful man .
Thus , after long hour of what would be reckon very fair mountaineering in civilized country , they would pant over a saddle-back , sidle past a few landslip , and drop through forest at an angle of forty-five onto the road again .
Along their track lay the village of the hillfolk -- mud and earth hut , timber now and then rudely carve with an axe -- cling like swallow ' nest against the steep , huddle on tiny flat half-way down a three-thousand-foot glissade ; jam into a corner between cliff that funnel and focus every wandering blast ; or , for the sake of summer pasture , cower down on a neck that in winter would be ten foot deep in snow .
And the people -- the sallow , greasy , duffle-clad people , with short bare leg and face almost Esquimaux -- would flock out and adore .
The Plains -- kindly and gentle -- have treat the lama a a holy man among holy men .
But the Hills worship him a one in the confidence of all their devil .
Theirs be an almost obliterated Buddhism , overlaid with a nature-worship fantastic a their own landscape , elaborate a the terracing of their tiny field ; but they recognize the big hat , the clicking rosary , and the rare Chinese text for great authority ; and they respect the man beneath the hat .
` We saw thee come down over the black Breasts of Eua , ' say a Betah who give them cheese , sour milk , and stone-hard bread one evening .
` We do not use that often -- except when calve cow stray in summer .
There be a sudden wind among those stone that cast men down on the still day .
But what should such folk care for the Devil of Eua ! '
Then do Kim , ache in every fibre , dizzy with look down , footsore with cramp desperate toe into inadequate cranny , take joy in the day 's march -- such joy a a boy of St Xavier 's who have win the quarter-mile on the flat might take in the praise of his friend .
The hill sweat the ghi and sugar suet off his bone ; the dry air , take sobbingly at the head of cruel pass , firm and build out his upper rib ; and the tilted level put new hard muscle into calf and thigh .
They meditate often on the Wheel of Life -- the more so since , a the lama say , they be free from it visible temptation .
Except the grey eagle and an occasional far-seen bear grubbing and root on the hillside ; a vision of a furious paint leopard meet at dawn in a still valley devour a goat ; and now and again a bright-coloured bird , they be alone with the wind and the grass sing under the wind .
The woman of the smoky huts over whose roof the two walk a they descend the mountain , be unlovely and unclean , wife of many husband , and afflict with goitre .
The men be woodcutter when they be not farmer -- meek , and of an incredible simplicity .
But that suitable discourse might not fail , Fate send them , overtake and overtake upon the road , the courteous Dacca physician , who pay for his food in ointment good for goitre and counsel that restore peace between men and woman .
He seem to know these hill as well a he know the hill dialects , and give the lama the lie of the land towards Ladakh and Tibet .
He say they could return to the Plains at any moment .
Meantime , for such a loved mountain , yonder road might amuse .
This be not all reveal in a breath , but at even encounter on the stone threshing-floors , when , patient dispose of , the doctor would smoke and the lama snuff , while Kim watch the wee cow graze on the housetop , or throw his soul after his eye across the deep blue gulf between range and range .
And there be talk apart in the dark wood , when the doctor would seek herb , and Kim , a bud physician , must accompany him .
` You see , Mister O'Hara , I do not know what the deuce-an ' all I shall do when I find our sporting friend ; but if you will kindly keep within sight of my umbrella , which be fine fix point for cadastral survey , I shall feel much well . '
Kim look out across the jungle of peak .
` This be not my country , hakim .
Easier , I think , to find one louse in a bear-skin . '
` Oah , thatt be my strong point .
There be no hurry for Hurree .
They be at Leh not so long ago .
They say they have come down from the Karakorum with their head and horn and all .
I be onlee afraid they will have send back all their letter and compromise thing from Leh into Russian territoree .
Of course they will walk away a far to the East a possible -- just to show that they be never among the Western States .
You do not know the Hills ? '
He scratch with a twig on the earth .
` Look !
They should have come in by Srinagar or Abbottabad .
Thatt be their short road -- down the river by Bunji and Astor .
But they have make mischief in the West .
So ' -- he draw a furrow from leave to right -- ` they march and they march away East to Leh -LRB- ah !
it be cold there -RRB- , and down the Indus to Hanle -LRB- I know that road -RRB- , and then down , you see , to Bushahr and Chini valley .
That be ascertain by process of elimination , and also by ask question from people that I cure so well .
Our friend have be a long time play about and produce impression .
So they be well know from far off .
You will see me catch them somewhere in Chini valley .
Please keep your eye on the umbrella . '
It nod like a wind-blown harebell down the valley and round the mountain side , and in due time the lama and Kim , who steer by compass , would overhaul it , vend ointment and powder at eventide .
` We come by such and such a way ! '
The lama would throw a careless finger backward at the ridge , and the umbrella would expend itself in compliment .
They cross a snowy pas in cold moonlight , when the lama , mildly chaff Kim , go through up to his knee , like a Bactrian camel -- the snow-bred , shag-haired sort that come into the Kashmir Serai .
They dip across bed of light snow and snow-powdered shale , where they take refuge from a gale in a camp of Tibetans hurry down tiny sheep , each laden with a bag of borax .
They come out upon grassy shoulder still snow-speckled , and through forest , to grass anew .
For all their marching , Kedarnath and Badrinath be not impress ; and it be only after day of travel that Kim , uplift upon some insignificant ten-thousand-foot hummock , could see that a shoulder-knot or horn of the two great lord have -- ever so slightly -- change outline .
At last they enter a world within a world -- a valley of league where the high hill be fashion of a mere rubble and refuse from off the knee of the mountain .
Here one day 's march carry them no farther , it seem , than a dreamer 's clogged pace bear him in a nightmare .
They skirt a shoulder painfully for hour , and , behold , it be but an outlying bos in an outlying buttress of the main pile !
A rounded meadow reveal itself , when they have reach it , for a vast tableland run far into the valley .
Three day later , it be a dim fold in the earth to southward .
` Surely the Gods live here ! '
say Kim , beat down by the silence and the appalling sweep and dispersal of the cloud-shadows after rain .
` This be no place for men ! '
` Long and long ago , ' say the lama , a to himself , ` it be ask of the Lord whether the world be everlasting .
On this the Excellent One return no answer ... When I be in Ceylon , a wise Seeker confirm that from the gospel which be write in Pali .
Certainly , since we know the way to Freedom , the question be unprofitable , but -- look , and know illusion , chela !
These -- be the true Hills !
They be like my hill by Suchzen .
Never be such hill ! '
Above them , still enormously above them , earth tower away towards the snow-line , where from east to west across hundred of mile , rule a with a ruler , the last of the bold birch stop .
Above that , in scarp and block upheave , the rock strive to fight their head above the white smother .
Above these again , changeless since the world 's beginning , but change to every mood of sun and cloud , lay out the eternal snow .
They could see blot and blur on it face where storm and wander wullie-wa get up to dance .
Below them , a they stand , the forest slid away in a sheet of blue-green for mile upon mile ; below the forest be a village in it sprinkle of terraced field and steep grazing-grounds .
Below the village they know , though a thunderstorm worry and growl there for the moment , a pitch of twelve or fifteen hundred foot give to the moist valley where the stream gather that be the mother of young Sutluj .
As usual , the lama have lead Kim by cow-track and by-road , far from the main route along which Hurree Babu , that ` fearful man ' , have bucket three day before through a storm to which nine Englishmen out of ten would have give full right of way .
Hurree be no game-shot -- the snick of a trigger make him change colour -- but , a he himself would have say , he be ` fairly effeecient stalker ' , and he have rake the huge valley with a pair of cheap binoculars to some purpose .
Moreover , the white of worn canvas tent against green carry far .
Hurree Babu have see all he want to see when he sit on the threshing-floor of Ziglaur , twenty mile away a the eagle fly , and forty by road -- that be to say , two small dot which one day be just below the snow-line , and the next have move downward perhaps six inch on the hillside .
Once clean out and set to the work , his fat bare leg could cover a surprising amount of ground , and this be the reason why , while Kim and the lama lay in a leaky hut at Ziglaur till the storm should be over-past , an oily , wet , but always smile Bengali , talk the best of English with the vilest of phrase , be ingratiate himself with two sodden and rather rheumatic foreigner .
He have arrive , revolve many wild scheme , on the heel of a thunderstorm which have split a pine over against their camp , and so convince a dozen or two forcibly impressed baggage-coolies the day be inauspicious for farther travel that with one accord they have throw down their load and jibbed .
They be subject of a Hill Rajah who farm out their service , a be the custom , for his private gain ; and , to add to their personal distress , the strange Sahibs have already threaten them with rifle .
The most of them know rifle and Sahibs of old : they be tracker and shikarris of the Northern valley , keen after bear and wild goat ; but they have never be thus treat in their life .
So the forest take them to her bosom , and , for all oath and clamour , refuse to restore .
There be no need to feign madness or -- the Babu have think of another mean of secure a welcome .
He wring out his wet clothes , slip on his patent-leather shoe , open the blue-and-white umbrella , and with mince gait and a heart beating against his tonsil appear a ` agent for His Royal Highness , the Rajah of Rampur , gentleman .
What can I do for you , please ? '
The gentleman be delight .
One be visibly French , the other Russian , but they speak English not much inferior to the Babu 's .
They beg his kind office .
Their native servant have go sick at Leh .
They have hurry on because they be anxious to bring the spoil of the chase to Simla ere the skin grow moth-eaten .
They bore a general letter of introduction -LRB- the Babu salaam to it orientally -RRB- to all Government official .
No , they have not meet any other shooting-parties en route .
They do for themselves .
They have plenty of supply .
They only wish to push on as soon a might be .
At this he waylay a cowering hillman among the tree , and after three minute ' talk and a little silver -LRB- one can not be economical upon State service , though Hurree 's heart bleed at the waste -RRB- the eleven cooly and the three hangers-on reappear .
At least the Babu would be a witness to their oppression .
` My royal master , he will be much annoy , but these people be onlee common people and grossly ignorant .
If your honour will kindly overlook unfortunate affair , I shall be much pleased .
In a little while rain will stop and we can then proceed .
You have be shoot , eh ?
That be fine performance ! '
He skip nimbly from one kilta to the next , make pretence to adjust each conical basket .
The Englishman be not , a a rule , familiar with the Asiatic , but he would not strike across the wrist a kindly Babu who have accidentally upset a kilta with a red oilskin top .
On the other hand , he would not press drink upon a Babu be he never so friendly , nor would he invite him to meat .
The stranger do all these thing , and ask many question -- about woman mostly -- to which Hurree return gay and unstudied answer .
They give him a glass of whitish fluid like to gin , and then more ; and in a little time his gravity depart from him .
He become thickly treasonous , and speak in term of sweeping indecency of a Government which have force upon him a white man 's education and neglect to supply him with a white man 's salary .
He babble tale of oppression and wrong till the tear run down his cheek for the misery of his land .
Then he stagger off , sing love-song of Lower Bengal , and collapse upon a wet tree-trunk .
Never be so unfortunate a product of English rule in India more unhappily thrust upon alien .
` They be all just of that pattern , ' say one sportsman to the other in French .
` When we get into India proper thou wilt see .
I should like to visit his Rajah .
One might speak the good word there .
It be possible that he have hear of u and wish to signify his good-will . '
` We have not time .
We must get into Simla as soon a may be , ' his companion reply .
` For my own part , I wish our report have be send back from Hilas , or even Leh . '
` The English post be well and safer .
Remember we be give all facility -- and Name of God !
-- they give them to u too !
Is it unbelievable stupidity ? '
` It be pride -- pride that deserves and will receive punishment . '
` Yes !
To fight a fellow-Continental in our game be something .
There be a risk attach , but these people -- bah !
It be too easy . '
` Pride -- all pride , my friend . '
` Now what the deuce be good of Chandernagore be so close to Calcutta and all , ' say Hurree , snore open-mouthed on the sodden moss , ` if I can not understand their French ?
They talk so particularly fast !
It would have be much well to cut their beastly throat . '
When he present himself again he be rack with a headache -- penitent , and volubly afraid that in his drunkenness he might have be indiscreet .
He love the British Government -- it be the source of all prosperity and honour , and his master at Rampur hold the very same opinion .
Upon this the men begin to deride him and to quote past word , till step by step , with deprecate smirk , oily grin , and leer of infinite cunning , the poor Babu be beat out of his defence and force to speak -- truth .
When Lurgan be tell the tale later , he mourn aloud that he could not have be in the place of the stubborn , inattentive cooly , who with grass mat over their head and the raindrop puddle in their footprint , wait on the weather .
All the Sahibs of their acquaintance -- rough-clad men joyously return year after year to their chosen gully -- have servant and cook and orderly , very often hillmen .
These Sahibs travel without any retinue .
Therefore they be poor Sahibs , and ignorant ; for no Sahib in his sens would follow a Bengali 's advice .
But the Bengali , appear from somewhere , have give them money , and could make shift with their dialect .
Used to comprehensive ill-treatment from their own colour , they suspect a trap somewhere , and stood by to run if occasion offer .
Then through the new-washed air , steam with delicious earth-smells , the Babu lead the way down the slope -- walk ahead of the cooly in pride ; walk behind the foreigner in humility .
His thought be many and various .
The least of them would have interested his companion beyond word .
But he be an agreeable guide , ever keen to point out the beauty of his royal master 's domain .
He people the hill with anything thev have a mind to slay -- thar , ibex , or markhor , and bear by Elisha 's allowance .
He discourse of botany and ethnology with unimpeachable inaccuracy , and his store of local legend -- he have be a trusted agent of the State for fifteen year , remember -- be inexhaustible .
` Decidedly this fellow be an original , ' say the taller of the two foreigner .
` He be like the nightmare of a Viennese courier . '
` He represent in little India in transition -- the monstrous hybridism of East and West , ' the Russian replied .
` It be we who can deal with Orientals . '
` He have lose his own country and have not acquire any other .
But he have a most complete hatred of his conqueror .
Listen .
He confide to me last night , ' say the other .
Under the striped umbrella Hurree Babu be strain ear and brain to follow the quick-poured French , and keep both eye on a kilta full of map and document -- an extra-large one with a double red oil-skin cover .
He do not wish to steal anything .
He only desire to know what to steal , and , incidentally , how to get away when he have steal it .
He thank all the Gods of Hindustan , and Herbert Spencer , that there remain some valuable to steal .
On the second day the road rise steeply to a grass spur above the forest ; and it be here , about sunset , that they come across an aged lama -- but they call him a bonze -- sit cross-legged above a mysterious chart hold down by stone , which he be explain to a young man , evidently a neophyte , of singular , though unwashen , beauty .
The striped umbrella have be sight half a march away , and Kim have suggest a halt till it come up to them .
` Ha ! '
say Hurree Babu , resourceful a Puss-in-Boots .
` That be eminent local holy man .
Probably subject of my royal master . '
` What be he do ?
It be very curious . '
` He be expound holy picture -- all hand-worked . '
The two men stand bareheaded in the wash of the afternoon sunlight low across the gold-coloured grass .
The sullen cooly , glad of the check , halt and slide down their load .
` Look ! '
say the Frenchman .
` It be like a picture for the birth of a religion -- the first teacher and the first disciple .
Is he a Buddhist ? '
` Of some debased kind , ' the other answer .
` There be no true Buddhists among the Hills .
But look at the fold of the drapery .
Look at his eye -- how insolent !
Why do this make one feel that we be so young a people ? '
The speaker strike passionately at a tall weed .
` We have nowhere leave our mark yet .
Nowhere !
That , do you understand , be what disquiet me . '
He scowl at the placid face , and the monumental calm of the pose .
` Have patience .
We shall make your mark together -- we and you young people .
Meantime , draw his picture . '
The Babu advance loftily ; his back out of all keep with his deferential speech , or his wink towards Kim .
` Holy One , these be Sahibs .
My medicine cure one of a flux , and I go into Simla to oversee his recovery .
They wish to see thy picture -- ' ` To heal the sick be always good .
This be the Wheel of Life , ' say the lama , ` the same I show thee in the hut at Ziglaur when the rain fell . '
` And to hear thee expound it . '
The lama 's eye light at the prospect of new listener .
` To expound the Most Excellent Way be good .
Have they any knowledge of Hindi , such a have the Keeper of Images ? ' '
A little , maybe . '
Hereat , simply a a child engross with a new game , the lama throw back his head and begin the full-throated invocation of the Doctor of Divinity ere he open the full doctrine .
The stranger lean on their alpenstock and listen .
Kim , squat humbly , watch the red sunlight on their face , and the blend and parting of their long shadow .
They wear un-English legging and curious girt-in belt that remind him hazily of the picture in a book in St Xavier 's library `` The Adventures of a Young Naturalist in Mexico '' be it name .
Yes , they look very like the wonderful M. Sumichrast of that tale , and very unlike the ` highly unscrupulous folk ' of Hurree Babu 's imagining .
The cooly , earth-coloured and mute , crouch reverently some twenty or thirty yard away , and the Babu , the slack of his thin gear snap like a marking-flag in the chill breeze , stand by with an air of happy proprietorship .
` These be the men , ' Hurree whisper , a the ritual go on and the two white follow the grass-blade sweeping from Hell to Heaven and back again .
` All their book be in the large kilta with the reddish top -- book and report and map -- and I have see a King 's letter that either Hilas or Bunar have write .
They guard it most carefully .
They have send nothing back from Hilas or Leh .
That be sure . '
` Who be with them ? '
` Only the beegar-coolies .
They have no servant .
They be so close they cook their own food . '
` But what be I to do ? '
` Wait and see .
Only if any chance come to me thou wilt know where to seek for the paper . '
` This be well in Mahbub Ali 's hand than a Bengali 's , ' say Kim scornfully .
` There be more way of get to a sweetheart than butt down a wall . '
` See here the Hell appoint for avarice and greed .
Flanked upon the one side by Desire and on the other by Weariness . '
The lama warm to his work , and one of the stranger sketch him in the quick-fading light .
` That be enough , ' the man say at last brusquely . '
I can not understand him , but I want that picture .
He be a good artist than I . Ask him if he will sell it . '
` He say `` No , sar , '' ' the Babu reply .
The lama , of course , would no more have part with his chart to a casual wayfarer than an archbishop would pawn the holy vessel of his cathedral .
All Tibet be full of cheap reproduction of the Wheel ; but the lama be an artist , as well a a wealthy Abbot in his own place .
` Perhaps in three day , or four , or ten , if I perceive that the Sahib be a Seeker and of good understanding , I may myself draw him another .
But this be use for the initiation of a novice .
Tell him so , hakim . '
` He wish it now -- for money . '
The lama shake his head slowly and begin to fold up the Wheel .
The Russian , on his side , saw no more than an unclean old man haggling over a dirty piece of paper .
He draw out a handful of rupee , and snatch half-jestingly at the chart , which tore in the lama 's grip .
A low murmur of horror go up from the cooly -- some of whom be Spiti men and , by their light , good Buddhists .
The lama rise at the insult ; his hand go to the heavy iron pencase that be the priest 's weapon , and the Babu dance in agony .
` Now you see -- you see why I want witness .
They be highly unscrupulous people .
Oh , sar !
sar !
You must not hit holyman ! '
` Chela !
He have defile the Written Word ! '
It be too late .
Before Kim could ward him off , the Russian strike the old man full on the face .
Next instant he be roll over and over downhill with Kim at his throat .
The blow have wake every unknown Irish devil in the boy 's blood , and the sudden fall of his enemy do the rest .
The lama drop to his knee , half-stunned ; the cooly under their load flee up the hill as fast a plainsman run aross the level .
They have see sacrilege unspeakable , and it behove them to get away before the Gods and devil of the hill take vengeance .
The Frenchman run towards the lama , fumble at his revolver with some notion of make him a hostage for his companion .
A shower of cut stone -- hillmen be very straight shot -- drive him away , and a coolie from Ao-chung snatch the lama into the stampede .
All come about as swiftly a the sudden mountain-darkness .
` They have take the baggage and all the gun , ' yell the Frenchman , fire blindly into the twilight .
` All right , sar !
All right !
Do n't shoot .
I go to rescue , ' and Hurree , pound down the slope , cast himself bodily upon the delighted and astonished Kim , who be bang his breathless foe 's head against a boulder .
` Go back to the cooly , ' whisper the Babu in his ear .
` They have the baggage .
The paper be in the kilta with the red top , but look through all .
Take their paper , and specially the murasla -LSB- King 's letter -RSB- .
Go !
The other man come ! '
Kim tore uphill .
A revolver-bullet rang on a rock by his side , and he cower partridge-wise .
` If you shoot , ' shout Hurree , ` they will descend and annihilate u .
I have rescue the gentleman , sar .
This be particularly dangerous . '
` By Jove ! '
Kim be think hard in English .
` This be dam ' - tight place , but I think it be self-defence . '
He felt in his bosom for Mahbub 's gift , and uncertainly -- save for a few practice shot in the Bikanir desert , he have never use the little gun -- pull the trigger .
` What do I say , sar ! '
The Babu seem to be in tear .
` Come down here and assist to resuscitate .
We be all up a tree , I tell you . '
The shot cease .
There be a sound of stumble foot , and Kim hurry upward through the gloom , swear like a cat -- or a country-bred .
` Did they wind thee , chela ? '
call the lama above him .
` No .
And thou ? '
He dive into a clump of stunted fir .
` Unhurt .
Come away .
We go with these folk to Shamlegh-under-the-Snow . '
` But not before we have do justice , ' a voice cry . '
I have get the Sahibs ' gun -- all four .
Let u go down . '
` He strike the Holy One -- we saw it !
Our cattle will be barren -- our wife will cease to bear !
The snow will slide upon u a we go home ... Atop of all other oppression too ! '
The little fir-clump fill with clamour cooly -- panic-stricken , and in their terror capable of anything .
The man from Ao-chung click the breech-bolt of his gun impatiently , and make a to go downhill .
` Wait a little , Holy One ; they can not go far .
Wait till I return , ' say he .
` It be this person who have suffer wrong , ' say the lama , his hand over his brow .
` For that very reason , ' be the reply .
` If this person overlook it , your hand be clean .
Moreover , ye acquire merit by obedience . '
` Wait , and we will all go to Shamlegh together , ' the man insist .
For a moment , for just so long a it need to stuff a cartridge into a breech-loader , the lama hesitate .
Then he rise to his foot , and lay a finger on the man 's shoulder .
` Hast thou heard ?
I say there shall be no killing -- I who be Abbot of Such-zen .
Is it any lust of thine to be re-born a a rat , or a snake under the eaves -- a worm in the belly of the most mean beast ?
Is it thy wish to -- ' The man from Ao-chung fell to his knee , for the voice boom like a Tibetan devil-gong .
` Ai !
ai ! '
cry the Spiti men .
` Do not curse u -- do not curse him .
It be but his zeal , Holy One !
... Put down the rifle , fool ! '
` Anger on anger !
Evil on evil !
There will be no killing .
Let the priest-beaters go in bondage to their own act .
Just and sure be the Wheel , swerve not a hair !
They will be bear many time -- in torment . '
His head droop , and he lean heavily on Kim 's shoulder . '
I have come near to great evil , chela , ' he whisper in that dead hush under the pine . '
I be tempt to loose the bullet ; and truly , in Tibet there would have be a heavy and a slow death for them ... He strike me across the face ... upon the flesh ... ' He slide to the ground , breathe heavily , and Kim could hear the over-driven heart bump and check .
` Have they hurt him to the death ? '
say the Ao-chung man , while the others stand mute .
Kim kneel over the body in deadly fear .
` Nay , ' he cry passionately , ` this be only a weakness . '
Then he remember that he be a white man , with a white man 's camp-fittings at his service .
` Open the kiltas !
The Sahibs may have a medicine . '
` Oho !
Then I know it , ' say the Ao-chung man with a laugh .
` Not for five year be I Yankling Sahib 's shikarri without know that medicine .
I too have taste it .
Behold ! '
He draw from his breast a bottle of cheap whisky -- such a be sell to explorer at Leh -- and cleverly force a little between the lama 's teeth .
` So I do when Yankling Sahib twist his foot beyond Astor .
Aha !
I have already look into their basket -- but we will make fair division at Shamlegh .
Give him a little more .
It be good medicine .
Feel !
His heart go well now .
Lay his head down and rub a little on the chest .
If he have wait quietly while I account for the Sahibs this would never have come .
But perhaps the Sahibs may chase u here .
Then it would not be wrong to shoot them with their own gun , heh ? '
` One be pay , I think , already , ' say Kim between his teeth . '
I kick him in the groin a we go downhill .
Would I have kill him ! '
` It be well to be brave when one do not live in Rampur , ' say one whose hut lay within a few mile of the Rajah 's rickety palace .
` If we get a bad name among the Sahibs , none will employ u a shikarris any more . '
` Oh , but these be not Angrezi Sahibs -- not merry-minded men like Fostum Sahib or Yankling Sahib .
They be foreigner -- they can not speak Angrezi a do Sahibs . '
Here the lama cough and sit up , grope for the rosary .
` There shall be no killing , ' he murmur .
` Just be the Wheel !
Evil on evil -- ' ` Nay , Holy One .
We be all here . '
The Ao-chung man timidly pat his foot .
` Except by thy order , no one shall be slay .
Rest awhile .
We will make a little camp here , and later , a the moon rise , we go to Shamlegh-under-the-Snow . '
` After a blow , ' say a Spiti man sententiously , ` it be best to sleep . '
` There be , a it be , a dizziness at the back of my neck , and a pinching in it .
Let me lay my head on thy lap , chela .
I be an old man , but not free from passion ... We must think of the Cause of Things . '
` Give him a blanket .
We dare not light a fire lest the Sahibs see . '
` Better get away to Shamlegh .
None will follow u to Shamlegh . '
This be the nervous Rampur man . '
I have be Fostum Sahib 's shikarri , and I be Yankling Sahib 's shikarri .
I should have be with Yankling Sahib now but for this cursed beegar -LSB- the corvee -RSB- .
Let two men watch below with the gun lest the Sahibs do more foolishness .
I shall not leave this Holy One . '
They sit down a little apart from the lama , and , after listen awhile , pass round a water-pipe whose receiver be an old Day and Martin blacking-bottle .
The glow of the red charcoal a it go from hand to hand light up the narrow , blink eye , the high Chinese cheek-bones , and the bull-throats that melt away into the dark duffle fold round the shoulder .
They look like kobolds from some magic mine -- gnome of the hill in conclave .
And while they talk , the voice of the snow-waters round them diminish one by one a the night-frost choked and clog the runnel .
` How he stand up against u ! '
say a Spiti man admire . '
I remember an old ibex , out Ladakh-way , that Dupont Sahib miss on a shoulder-shot , seven season back , stand up just like him .
Dupont Sahib be a good shikarri . '
` Not as good a Yankling Sahib . '
The Ao-chung man take a pull at the whisky-bottle and pass it over .
` Now hear me -- unless any other man think he know more . '
The challenge be not take up .
` We go to Shamlegh when the moon rise .
There we will fairly divide the baggage between u .
I be content with this new little rifle and all it cartridge . '
` Are the bear only bad on thy hold ?
say a mate , suck at the pipe .
` No ; but musk-pods be worth six rupee apiece now , and thy woman can have the canvas of the tent and some of the cooking-gear .
We will do all that at Shamlegh before dawn .
Then we all go our way , remember that we have never see or take service with these Sahibs , who may , indeed , say that we have steal their baggage . '
` That be well for thee , but what will our Rajah say ? '
` Who be to tell him ?
Those Sahibs , who can not speak our talk , or the Babu , who for his own end give u money ?
Will he lead an army against u ?
What evidence will remain ?
That we do not need we shall throw on Shamlegh-midden , where no man have yet set foot . '
` Who be at Shamlegh this summer ? '
The place be only a grazing centre of three or four hut . '
` The Woman of Shamlegh .
She have no love for Sahibs , a we know .
The others can be please with little present ; and here be enough for u all . '
He pat the fat side of the near basket .
` But -- but -- ' ' I have say they be not true Sahibs .
All their skin and head be buy in the bazar at Leh .
I know the mark .
I show them to ye last march . '
` True .
They be all buy skin and head .
Some have even the moth in them . '
That be a shrewd argument , and the Ao-chung man know his fellow .
` If the bad come to the bad , I shall tell Yankling Sahib , who be a man of a merry mind , and he will laugh .
We be not do any wrong to any Sahibs whom we know .
They be priest-beaters .
They frighten u .
We flee !
Who know where we drop the baggage ?
Do ye think Yankling Sahib will permit down-country police to wander all over the hill , disturb his game ?
It be a far cry from Simla to Chini , and far from Shamlegh to Shamlegh-midden . '
` So be it , but I carry the big kilta .
The basket with the red top that the Sahibs pack themselves every morning . '
` Thus it be prove , ' say the Shamlegh man adroitly , ` that they be Sahibs of no account .
Who ever heard of Fostum Sahib , or Yankling Sahib , or even the little Peel Sahib that sit up of night to shoot serow -- I say , who , ever heard of these Sahibs come into the hill without a down-country cook , and a bearer , and -- and all manner of well-paid , high-handed and oppressive folk in their tail ?
How can they make trouble ?
What of the kilta ? '
` Nothing , but that it be full of the Written Word -- book and paper in which they write , and strange instrument , a of worship . '
` Shamlegh-midden will take them all . '
` True !
But how if we insult the Sahibs ' Gods thereby !
I do not like to handle the Written Word in that fashion .
And their brass idol be beyond my comprehension .
It be no plunder for simple hill-folk . '
` The old man still sleep .
Hst !
We will ask his chela . '
The Ao-chung man refresh himself , and swell with pride of leadership .
` We have here , ' he whisper , ' a kilta whose nature we do not know . '
` But I do , ' say Kim cautiously .
The lama draw breath in natural , easy sleep , and Kim have be think of Hurree 's last word .
As a player of the Great Game , he be dispose just then to reverence the Babu .
` It be a kilta with a red top full of very wonderful thing , not to be handle by fool . ' '
I say it ; I say it , ' cry the bearer of that burden .
` Thinkest thou it will betray u ? '
` Not if it be give to me .
I can draw out it magic .
Otherwise it will do great harm . ' '
A priest always take his share . '
Whisky be demoralize the Ao-chung man .
` It be no matter to me . '
Kim answer , with the craft of his mother-country .
` Share it among you , and see what come ! '
` Not I. I be only jest .
Give the order .
There be more than enough for u all .
We go our way from Shamlegh in the dawn . '
They arrange and re-arranged their artless little plan for another hour , while Kim shiver with cold and pride .
The humour of the situation tickle the Irish and the Oriental in his soul .
Here be the emissary of the dread Power of the North , very possibly a great in their own land a Mahbub or Colonel Creighton , suddenly smitten helpless .
One of them , he privately know , would be lame for a time .
They have make promise to Kings .
Tonight they lay out somewhere below him , chartless , foodless , tentless , gunless -- except for Hurree Babu , guideless .
And this collapse of their Great Game -LRB- Kim wonder to whom they would report it -RRB- , this panicky bolt into the night , have come about through no craft of Hurree 's or contrivance of Kim 's , but simply , beautifully , and inevitably a the capture of Mahbub 's fakir-friends by the zealous young policeman at Umballa .
` They be there -- with nothing ; and , by Jove , it be cold !
I be here with all their thing .
Oh , they will be angry !
I be sorry for Hurree Babu . '
Kim might have save his pity , for though at that moment the Bengali suffer acutely in the flesh , his soul be puff and lofty .
A mile down the hill , on the edge of the pine-forest , two half-frozen men -- one powerfully sick at interval -- be vary mutual recrimination with the most poignant abuse of the Babu , who seem distraught with terror .
They demand a plan of action .
He explain that they be very lucky to be alive ; that their cooly , if not then stalk them , have pass beyond recall ; that the Rajah , his master , be ninety mile away , and , so far from lend them money and a retinue for the Simla journey , would surely cast them into prison if he hear that they have hit a priest .
He enlarge on this sin and it consequence till they bid him change the subject .
Their one hope , say he , be unostentatious flight from village to village till they reach civilization ; and , for the hundredth time dissolve in tear , he demand of the high star why the Sahibs ` have beat holy man ' .
Ten step would have take Hurree into the creaking gloom utterly beyond their reach -- to the shelter and food of the near village , where glib-tongued doctor be scarce .
But he prefer to endure cold , belly-pinch , bad word , and occasional blow in the company of his honoured employer .
Crouched against a tree-trunk , he sniff dolefully .
` And have you think , ' say the uninjured man hotly , ` what sort of spectacle we shall present wander through these hill among these aborigine ? '
Hurree Babu have think of little else for some hour , but the remark be not to his address .
` We can not wander !
I can hardly walk , ' groan Kim 's victim .
` Perhaps the holy man will be merciful in loving-kindness , sar , otherwise -- ' ' I promise myself a peculiar pleasure in empty my revolver into that young bonze when next we meet , ' be the unchristian answer .
` Revolvers !
Vengeance !
Bonzes ! '
Hurree crouch low .
The war be break out afresh .
` Have you no consideration for our loss ?
The baggage !
The baggage ! '
He could hear the speaker literally dance on the grass .
` Everything we bore !
Everything we have secure !
Our gain !
Eight month ' work !
Do you know what that mean ?
`` Decidedly it be we who can deal with Orientals ! ''
Oh , you have do well . '
They fell to it in several tongue , and Hurree smile .
Kim be with the kiltas , and in the kiltas lay eight month of good diplomacy .
There be no mean of communicate with the boy , but he could be trust .
For the rest , Hurree could so stage-manage the journey through the hill that Hilas , Bunar , and four hundred mile of hill-roads should tell the tale for a generation .
Men who can not control their own cooly be little respect in the Hills , and the hillman have a very keen sense of humour .
` If I have do it myself , ' think Hurree , ` it would not have be good ; and , by Jove , now I think of it , of course I arrange it myself .
How quick I have be !
Just when I run downhill I think it !
Thee outrage be accidental , but onlee me could have work it -- ah -- for all it be dam ' - well worth .
Consider the moral effect upon these ignorant people !
No treaty -- no paper -- no write document at all -- and me to interpret for them .
How I shall laugh with the Colonel !
I wish I have their paper also : but you can not occupy two place in space simultaneously .
Thatt be axiomatic . '
Chapter 14 My brother kneel -LRB- so saith Kabir -RRB- To stone and brass in heathen wise , But in my brother 's voice I hear My own unanswered agony .
His God be a his Fates assign -- His prayer be all the world 's -- and mine .
The Prayer .
At moonrise the cautious cooly get under way .
The lama , refresh by his sleep and the spirit , need no more than Kim 's shoulder to bear him along -- a silent , swift-striding man .
They hold the shale-sprinkled grass for an hour , sweep round the shoulder of an immortal cliff , and climb into a new country entirely block off from all sight of Chini valley .
A huge pasture-ground run up fan-shaped to the living snow .
At it base be perhaps half an acre of flat land , on which stand a few soil and timber hut .
Behind them -- for , hill-fashion , they be perch on the edge of all thing -- the ground fell sheer two thousand foot to Shamlegh-midden , where never yet man have set foot .
The men make no motion to divide the plunder till they have see the lama bed down in the best room of the place , with Kim shampoo his foot , Mohammedan-fashion .
` We will send food , ' say the Ao-chung man , ` and the red-topped kilta .
By dawn there will be none to give evidence , one way or the other .
If anything be not need in the kilta -- see here ! '
He point through the window -- open into space that be fill with moonlight reflect from the snow -- and throw out an empty whisky-bottle .
` No need to listen for the fall .
This be the world 's end , ' he say , and go out .
The lama look forth , a hand on either sill , with eye that shine like yellow opal .
From the enormous pit before him white peak lift themselves yearn to the moonlight .
The rest be a the darkness of interstellar space .
` These , ' he say slowly , ` be indeed my Hills .
Thus should a man abide , perch above the world , separate from delight , consider vast matter . '
` Yes ; if he have a chela to prepare tea for him , and to fold a blanket for his head , and to chase out calve cow . '
A smoky lamp burn in a niche , but the full moonlight beat it down ; and by the mixed light , stoop above the food-bag and cup , Kim move like a tall ghost .
` Ai !
But now I have let the blood cool , my head still beat and drum , and there be a cord round the back of my neck . '
` No wonder .
It be a strong blow .
May he who deal it -- ' ` But for my own passion there would have be no evil . '
` What evil ?
Thou hast save the Sahibs from the death they deserve a hundred time . '
` The lesson be not well learnt , chela . '
The lama come to rest on a folded blanket , a Kim go forward with his even routine .
` The blow be but a shadow upon a shadow .
Evil in itself -- my legs weary apace these latter day !
-- it meet evil in me : anger , rage , and a lust to return evil .
These wrought in my blood , wake tumult in my stomach , and dazzle my ear . '
Here he drink scald black-tea ceremonially , take the hot cup from Kim 's hand .
` Had I be passionless , the evil blow would have do only bodily evil -- a scar , or a bruise -- which be illusion .
But my mind be not abstract , for rush in straightway a lust to let the Spiti men kill .
In fight that lust , my soul be tear and wrench beyond a thousand blow .
Not till I have repeat the Blessings ' -LRB- he mean the Buddhist Beatitudes -RRB- ` do I achieve calm .
But the evil plant in me by that moment 's carelessness work out to it end .
Just be the Wheel , swerve not a hair !
Learn the lesson , chela . '
` It be too high for me , ' Kim mutter . '
I be still all shake .
I be glad I hurt the man . ' '
I felt that , sleep upon thy knee , in the wood below .
It disquiet me in my dream -- the evil in thy soul work through to mine .
Yet on the other hand ' -- he loose his rosary -- ' I have acquire merit by save two life -- the life of those that wrong me .
Now I must see into the Cause of Things .
The boat of my soul stagger . '
` Sleep , and be strong .
That be wise . ' '
I meditate .
There be a need great than thou knowest . '
Till the dawn , hour after hour , a the moonlight pal on the high peak , and that which have be belt blackness on the side of the far hill show a tender green forest , the lama star fixedly at the wall .
From time to time he groan .
Outside the barred door , where discomfit kine come to ask for their old stable , Shamlegh and the cooly give itself up to plunder and riotous living .
The Ao-chung man be their leader , and once they have open the Sahibs ' tin food and find that they be very good they dare not turn back .
Shamlegh kitchen-midden take the dunnage .
When Kim , after a night of bad dream , stole forth to brush his teeth in the morning chill , a fair-coloured woman with turquoise-studded headgear draw him aside .
` The others have go .
They leave thee this kilta a the promise be .
I do not love Sahibs , but thou wilt make u a charm in return for it .
We do not wish little Shamlegh to get a bad name on account of the -- accident .
I be the Woman of Shamlegh . '
She look him over with bold , bright eye , unlike the usual furtive glance of hillwomen .
` Assuredly .
But it must be do in secret . '
She raise the heavy kilta like a toy and sling it into her own hut .
` Out and bar the door !
Let none come near till it be finish , ' say Kim .
` But afterwards -- we may talk ? '
Kim tilt the kilta on the floor -- a cascade of Survey-instruments , book , diary , letter , map , and queerly scent native correspondence .
At the very bottom be an embroidered bag cover a seal , gild , and illuminated document such a one King send to another .
Kim catch his breath with delight , and review the situation from a Sahib 's point of view .
` The book I do not want .
Besides , they be logarithms -- Survey , I suppose . '
He lay them aside .
` The letter I do not understand , but Colonel Creighton will .
They must all be keep .
The map -- they draw good map than me -- of course .
All the native letter -- oho !
-- and particularly the murasla . '
He sniff the embroidered bag .
` That must be from Hilas or Bunar , and Hurree Babu speak truth .
By Jove !
It be a fine haul .
I wish Hurree could know ... The rest must go out of the window . '
He finger a superb prismatic compass and the shiny top of a theodolite .
But after all , a Sahib can not very well steal , and the thing might be inconvenient evidence later .
He sort out every scrap of manuscript , every map , and the native letter .
They make one softish slab .
The three lock ferril-backed book , with five worn pocket-books , he put aside .
` The letter and the murasla I must carry inside my coat and under my belt , and the hand-written book I must put into the food-bag .
It will be very heavy .
No .
I do not think there be anything more .
If there be , the cooly have throw it down the khud , so thatt be all right .
Now you go too . '
He repacked the kilta with all he mean to lose , and heave it up on to the windowsill .
A thousand foot below lay a long , lazy , round-shouldered bank of mist , a yet untouched by the morning sun .
A thousand foot below that be a hundred-year-old pine-forest .
He could see the green top look like a bed of moss when a wind-eddy thin the cloud .
` No !
I do n't think any one will go after you ! '
The wheeling basket vomit it content a it drop .
The theodolite hit a jutting cliff-ledge and explode like a shell ; the book , inkstand , paint-boxes , compass , and ruler show for a few second like a swarm of bee .
Then they vanish ; and , though Kim , hang half out of the window , strain his young ear , never a sound come up from the gulf .
` Five hundred -- a thousand rupee could not buy them , ' he think sorrowfully .
` It be verree wasteful , but I have all their other stuff -- everything they do -- I hope .
Now how the deuce be I to tell Hurree Babu , and whatt the deuce be I to do ?
And my old man be sick .
I must tie up the letter in oilskin .
That be something to do first -- else they will get all sweat ... And I be all alone ! '
He bind them into a neat packet , swedging down the stiff , sticky oilskin at the comer , for his rove life have make him as methodical a an old hunter in matter of the road .
Then with double care he pack away the book at the bottom of the food-bag .
The woman rap at the door .
` But thou hast make no charm , ' she say , look about .
` There be no need . '
Kim have completely overlook the necessity for a little patter-talk .
The woman laugh at his confusion irreverently .
` None -- for thee .
Thou canst cast a spell by the mere winking of an eye .
But think of u poor people when thou art go .
They be all too drunk last night to hear a woman .
Thou art not drink ? ' '
I be a priest . '
Kim have recover himself , and , the woman be aught but unlovely , think best to stand on his office . '
I warn them that the Sahibs will be angry and will make an inquisition and a report to the Rajah .
There be also the Babu with them .
Clerks have long tongue . '
` Is that all thy trouble ? '
The plan rise fully form in Kim 's mind , and he smile ravishingly .
` Not all , ' quoth the woman , put out a hard brown hand all cover with turquoise set in silver . '
I can finish that in a breath , ' he go on quickly .
` The Babu be the very hakim -LRB- thou hast heard of him ? -RRB-
who be wander among the hill by Ziglaur .
I know him . '
` He will tell for the sake of a reward .
Sahibs can not distinguish one hillman from another , but Babus have eye for men -- and woman . '
` Carry a word to him from me . '
` There be nothing I would not do for thee . '
He accept the compliment calmly , a men must in land where woman make the love , tear a leaf from a note-book , and with a patent indelible pencil write in gross Shikast -- the script that bad little boy use when they write dirt on wall : ' I have everything that they have write : their picture of the country , and many letter .
Especially the murasla .
Tell me what to do .
I be at Shamlegh-under-the-Snow .
The old man be sick . '
` Take this to him .
It will altogether shut his mouth .
He can not have go far . '
` Indeed no .
They be still in the forest across the spur .
Our child go to watch them when the light come , and have cry the news a they move . '
Kim look his astonishment ; but from the edge of the sheep-pasture float a shrill , kite-like trill .
A child tend cattle have pick it up from a brother or sister on the far side of the slope that command Chini valley .
` My husband be also out there gather wood . '
She draw a handful of walnut from her bosom , split one neatly , and begin to eat .
Kim affect blank ignorance .
` Dost thou not know the meaning of the walnut -- priest ? '
she say coyly , and hand him the half-shells .
` Well thought of . '
He slip the piece of paper between them quickly .
` Hast thou a little wax to close them on this letter ? '
The woman sigh aloud , and Kim relent .
` There be no payment till service have be render .
Carry this to the Babu , and say it be send by the Son of the Charm . '
` Ai !
Truly !
Truly !
By a magician -- who be like a Sahib . '
` Nay , a Son of the Charm : and ask if there be any answer . '
` But if he offer a rudeness ?
I -- I be afraid . '
Kim laugh .
` He be , I have no doubt , very tired and very hungry .
The Hills make cold bedfellow .
Hai , my ' -- it be on the tip of his tongue to say Mother , but he turn it to Sister -- ` thou art a wise and witty woman .
By this time all the village know what have befall the Sahibs -- eh ? '
` True .
News be at Ziglaur by midnight , and by tomorrow should be at Kotgarh .
The village be both afraid and angry . '
` No need .
Tell the village to fee the Sahibs and pass them on , in peace .
We must get them quietly away from our valley .
To steal be one thing -- to kill another .
The Babu will understand , and there will be no after-complaints .
Be swift .
I must tend my master when he wake . '
` So be it .
After service -- thou hast say ?
-- come the reward .
I be the Woman of Shamlegh , and I hold from the Rajah .
I be no common bearer of babe .
Shamlegh be thine : hoof and horn and hide , milk and butter .
Take or leave . '
She turn resolutely uphill , her silver necklace click on her broad breast , to meet the morning sun fifteen hundred foot above them .
This time Kim thought in the vernacular a he wax down the oilskin edge of the packet .
` How can a man follow the Way or the Great Game when he be so -- always pester by woman ?
There be that girl at Akrola of the Ford ; and there be the scullion 's wife behind the dovecot -- not count the others -- and now come this one !
When I be a child it be well enough , but now I be a man and they will not regard me a a man .
Walnuts , indeed !
Ho !
ho !
It be almond in the Plains ! '
He go out to levy on the village -- not with a begging-bowl , which might do for down-country , but in the manner of a prince .
Shamlegh 's summer population be only three family -- four woman and eight or nine men .
They be all full of tinned meat and mixed drink , from ammoniate quinine to white vodka , for they have take their full share in the overnight loot .
The neat Continental tent have be cut up and share long ago , and there be patent aluminium saucepan abroad .
But they consider the lama 's presence a perfect safeguard against all consequence , and impenitently bring Kim of their best -- even to a drink of chang -- the barley-beer that come from Ladakh-way .
Then they thaw out in the sun , and sit with their leg hang over infinite abyss , chatter , laugh , and smoking .
They judge India and it Government solely from their experience of wander Sahibs who have employ them or their friend a shikarris .
Kim hear tale of shot miss upon ibex , serow , or markhor , by Sahibs twenty year in their graf -- every detail light from behind like twig on tree-tops see against lightning .
They tell him of their little disease , and , more important , the disease of their tiny , sure-footed cattle ; of trip as far a Kotgarh , where the strange missionary live , and beyond even to marvellous Simla , where the street be pave with silver , and anyone , look you , can get service with the Sahibs , who ride about in two-wheeled cart and spend money with a spade .
Presently , grave and aloof , walk very heavily , the lama join himself to the chatter under the eaves , and they give him great room .
The thin air refresh him , and he sit on the edge of precipice with the best of them , and , when talk languish , flung pebble into the void .
Thirty mile away , a the eagle fly , lay the next range , seam and channel and pit with little patch of brush -- forest , each a day 's dark march .
Behind the village , Shamlegh hill itself cut off all view to southward .
It be like sit in a swallow 's nest under the eaves of the roof of the world .
From time to time the lama stretch out his hand , and with a little low-voiced prompting would point out the road to Spiti and north across the Parungla .
` Beyond , where the hill lie thick , lie De-ch ` en ' -LRB- he mean Han-le ' -RRB- , ` the great Monastery .
s ` Tag-stan-ras-ch ` en build it , and of him there run this tale . '
Whereupon he tell it : a fantastic piled narrative of bewitchment and miracle that set Shamlegh a-gasping .
Turning west a little , he steer for the green hill of Kulu , and seek Kailung under the glacier .
` For thither come I in the old , old day .
From Leh I come , over the Baralachi . '
` Yes , yes ; we know it , ' say the far-faring people of Shamlegh .
` And I sleep two night with the priest of Kailung .
These be the Hills of my delight !
Shadows bless above all other shadow !
There my eye open on this world ; there my eye be open to this world ; there I find Enlightenment ; and there I gird my loin for my Search .
Out of the Hills I come -- the high Hills and the strong wind .
Oh , just be the Wheel ! '
He bless them in detail -- the great glacier , the naked rock , the piled moraine and tumbled shale ; dry upland , hidden salt-lake , age-old timber and fruitful water-shot valley one after the other , a a die man bless his folk ; and Kim marvel at his passion .
` Yes -- yes .
There be no place like our Hills , ' say the people of Shamlegh .
And they fell to wonder how a man could live in the hot terrible Plains where the cattle run as big a elephant , unfit to plough on a hillside ; where village touch village , they have hear , for a hundred mile ; where folk go about steal in gang , and what the robber spar the Police carry utterly away .
So the still forenoon wear through , and at the end of it Kim 's messenger drop from the steep pasture as unbreathed a when she have set out . '
I send a word to the hakim , ' Kim explain , while she make reverence .
` He join himself to the idolater ?
Nay , I remember he do a healing upon one of them .
He have acquire merit , though the heal employ his strength for evil .
Just be the Wheel !
What of the hakim ? ' '
I fear that thou hadst be bruise and -- and I know he be wise . '
Kim take the waxed walnut-shell and read in English on the back of his note : Your favour receive .
Can not get away from present company at present , but shall take them into Simla .
After which , hope to rejoin you .
Inexpedient to follow angry gentleman .
Return by same road you come , and will overtake .
Highly gratify about correspondence due to my forethought .
` He say , Holy One , that he will escape from the idolater , and will return to u .
Shall we wait awhile at Shamlegh , then ? '
The lama look long and lovingly upon the hill and shake his head .
` That may not be , chela .
From my bone outward I do desire it , but it be forbidden .
I have see the Cause of Things . '
` Why ?
When the Hills give thee back thy strength day by day ?
Remember we be weak and faint down below there in the Doon . ' '
I become strong to do evil and to forget .
A brawler and a swashbuckler upon the hillside be I. ' Kim bit back a smile .
` Just and perfect be the Wheel , swerve not a hair .
When I be a man -- a long time ago -- I do pilgrimage to Guru Ch ` wan among the poplar ' -LRB- he point Bhotanwards -RRB- , ` where they keep the Sacred Horse . '
` Quiet , be quiet ! '
say Shamlegh , all arow .
` He speak of Jam-lin-nin-k ` or , the Horse That Can Go Round The World In a Day . ' '
I speak to my chela only , ' say the lama , in gentle reproof , and they scatter like frost on south eaves of a morning . '
I do not seek truth in those day , but the talk of doctrine .
All illusion !
I drink the beer and eat the bread of Guru Ch ` wan .
Next day one say : `` We go out to fight Sangor Gutok down the valley to discover '' -LRB- mark again how Lust be tie to Anger ! -RRB-
`` which Abbot shall bear rule in the valley and take the profit of the prayer they print at Sangor Gutok . ''
I go , and we fight a day . '
` But how , Holy One ? '
` With our long pencases a I could have show ... I say , we fight under the poplar , both Abbots and all the monk , and one laid open my forehead to the bone .
See ! '
He tilt back his cap and show a puckered silvery scar .
` Just and perfect be the Wheel !
Yesterday the scar itch , and after fifty year I recall how it be dealt and the face of him who deal it ; dwell a little in illusion .
Followed that which thou didst see -- strife and stupidity .
Just be the Wheel !
The idolater 's blow fell upon the scar .
Then I be shake in my soul : my soul be darken , and the boat of my soul rock upon the water of illusion .
Not till I come to Shamlegh could I meditate upon the Cause of Things , or trace the run grass-roots of Evil .
I strive all the long night . '
` But , Holy One , thou art innocent of all evil .
May I be thy sacrifice ! '
Kim be genuinely distress at the old man 's sorrow , and Mahbub Ali 's phrase slip out unawares .
` In the dawn , ' the lama go on more gravely , ready rosary clicking between the slow sentence , ` come enlightenment .
It be here ... I be an old man ... hill-bred , hill-fed , never to sit down among my Hills .
Three year I travel through Hind , but -- can earth be strong than Mother Earth ?
My stupid body yearn to the Hills and the snow of the Hills , from below there .
I say , and it be true , my Search be sure .
So , at the Kulu woman 's house I turn hillward , over-persuaded by myself .
There be no blame to the hakim .
He -- follow Desire -- foretell that the Hills would make me strong .
They strengthen me to do evil , to forget my Search .
I delight in life and the lust of life .
I desire strong slope to climb .
I cast about to find them .
I measure the strength of my body , which be evil , against the high Hills , I make a mock of thee when thy breath come short under Jamnotri .
I jest when thou wouldst not face the snow of the pas . '
` But what harm ?
I be afraid .
It be just .
I be not a hillman ; and I love thee for thy new strength . '
` More than once I remember ' -- he rest his cheek dolefully on his hand -- ' I seek thy praise and the hakim 's for the mere strength of my leg .
Thus evil follow evil till the cup be full .
Just be the Wheel !
All Hind for three year do me all honour .
From the Fountain of Wisdom in the Wonder House to ' -- he smile -- ' a little child playing by a big gun -- the world prepare my road .
And why ? '
` Because we love thee .
It be only the fever of the blow .
I myself be still sick and shaken . '
` No !
It be because I be upon the Way -- tune a be si-nen -LSB- cymbal -RSB- to the purpose of the Law .
I depart from that ordinance .
The tune be break : follow the punishment .
In my own Hills , on the edge of my own country , in the very place of my evil desire , come the buffet -- here ! '
-LRB- He touch his brow . -RRB-
` As a novice be beat when he misplace the cup , so be I beat , who be Abbot of Such-zen .
No word , look you , but a blow , chela . '
` But the Sahibs do not know thee , Holy One ? '
` We be well match .
Ignorance and Lust meet Ignorance and Lust upon the road , and they beget Anger .
The blow be a sign to me , who be no good than a strayed yak , that my place be not here .
Who can read the Cause of an act be halfway to Freedom !
`` Back to the path , '' say the Blow .
`` The Hills be not for thee .
Thou canst not choose Freedom and go in bondage to the delight of life . '' '
` Would we have never meet that cursed Russian ! '
` Our Lord Himself can not make the Wheel swing backward .
And for my merit that I have acquire I gain yet another sign . '
He put his hand in his bosom , and draw forth the Wheel of Life .
` Look !
I consider this after I have meditate .
There remain untorn by the idolater no more than the breadth of my fingernail . ' '
I see . '
` So much , then , be the span of my life in this body .
I have serve the Wheel all my day .
Now the Wheel serve me .
But for the merit I have acquire in guide thee upon the Way , there would have be add to me yet another life ere I have find my River .
Is it plain , chela ? '
Kim star at the brutally disfigured chart .
From leave to right diagonally the rent run -- from the Eleventh House where Desire give birth to the Child -LRB- a it be draw by Tibetans -RRB- -- across the human and animal world , to the Fifth House -- the empty House of the Senses .
The logic be unanswerable .
` Before our Lord win Enlightenment ' -- the lama fold all away with reverence -- ` He be tempt .
I too have be tempt , but it be finish .
The Arrow fell in the Plains -- not in the Hills .
Therefore , what make we here ? '
` Shall we at least wait for the hakim ? ' '
I know how long I shall live in this body .
What can a hakim do ? '
` But thou art all sick and shake .
Thou canst not walk . '
` How can I be sick if I see Freedom ? '
He rise unsteadily to his foot .
` Then I must get food from the village .
Oh , the weary Road ! '
Kim felt that he too need rest .
` That be lawful .
Let u eat and go .
The Arrow fell in the Plains ... but I yield to Desire .
Make ready , chela . '
Kim turn to the woman with the turquoise headgear who have be idly pitch pebble over the cliff .
She smile very kindly . '
I find him like a strayed buffalo in a cornfield -- the Babu ; snort and sneeze with cold .
He be so hungry that he forget his dignity and give me sweet word .
The Sahibs have nothing . '
She fling out an empty palm .
` One be very sick about the stomach .
Thy work ? '
Kim nod , with a bright eye . '
I speak to the Bengali first -- and to the people of a near-by village after .
The Sahibs will be give food a they need it -- nor will the people ask money .
The plunder be already distribute .
The Babu make lie speech to the Sahibs .
Why do he not leave them ? '
` Out of the greatness of his heart . '
` Was never a Bengali yet have one big than a dried walnut .
But it be no matter ... Now a to walnut .
After service come reward .
I have say the village be thine . '
` It be my loss , ' Kim begin .
` Even now I have plan desirable thing in my heart which ' -- there be no need to go through the compliment proper to these occasion .
He sigh deeply ... ` But my master , lead by a vision -- ' ` Huh !
What can old eye see except a full begging-bowl ? ' '
-- turn from this village to the Plains again . '
` Bid him stay . '
Kim shake his head . '
I know my Holy One , and his rage if he be cross , ' he reply impressively .
` His curse shake the Hills . '
` Pity they do not save him from a broken head !
I hear that thou wast the tiger-hearted one who smite the Sahib .
Let him dream a little long .
Stay ! '
` Hillwoman , ' say Kim , with austerity that could not harden the outline of his young oval face , ` these matter be too high for thee . '
` The Gods be good to u !
Since when have men and woman be other than men and woman ? ' '
A priest be a priest .
He say he will go upon this hour .
I be his chela , and I go with him .
We need food for the Road .
He be an honoured guest in all the village , but ' -- he break into a pure boy 's grin -- ` the food here be good .
Give me some . '
` What if I do not give it thee ?
I be the woman of this village . '
` Then I curse thee -- a little -- not greatly , but enough to remember . '
He could not help smile .
` Thou hast curse me already by the down-dropped eyelash and the uplifted chin .
Curses ?
What should I care for mere word ? '
She clench her hand upon her bosom ... ` But I would not have thee to go in anger , think hardly of me -- a gatherer of cow-dung and grass at Shamlegh , but still a woman of substance . ' '
I think nothing , ' say Kim , ` but that I be grieve to go , for I be very weary ; and that we need food .
Here be the bag . '
The woman snatch it angrily . '
I be foolish , ' say she .
` Who be thy woman in the Plains ?
Fair or black ?
I be fair once .
Laughest thou ?
Once , long ago , if thou canst believe , a Sahib look on me with favour .
Once , long ago , I wear European clothes at the Mission-house yonder . '
She point towards Kotgarh .
` Once , long ago .
I be Ker-lis-ti-an and speak English -- a the Sahibs speak it .
Yes .
My Sahib say he would return and wed me -- yes , wed me .
He go away -- I have nurse him when he be sick -- but he never return .
Then I saw that the Gods of the Kerlistians lie , and I go back to my own people ... I have never set eye on a Sahib since .
-LRB- Do not laugh at me .
The fit be past , little priestling . -RRB-
Thy face and thy walk and thy fashion of speech put me in mind of my Sahib , though thou art only a wandering mendicant to whom I give a dole .
Curse me ?
Thou canst neither curse nor bless ! '
She set her hand on her hip and laugh bitterly .
` Thy Gods be lie ; thy work be lie ; thy word be lie .
There be no Gods under all the Heavens .
I know it ... But for awhile I think it be my Sahib come back , and he be my God .
Yes , once I make music on a pianno in the Mission-house at Kotgarh .
Now I give alms to priest who be heatthen . '
She wind up with the English word , and tie the mouth of the brimming bag . '
I wait for thee , chela , ' say the lama , lean against the door-post .
The woman sweep the tall figure with her eye .
` He walk !
He can not cover half a mile .
Whither would old bone go ? '
At this Kim , already perplex by the lama 's collapse and foresee the weight of the bag , fairly lose his temper .
` What be it to thee , woman of ill-omen , where he go ? '
` Nothing -- but something to thee , priest with a Sahib 's face .
Wilt thou carry him on thy shoulder ? ' '
I go to the Plains .
None must hinder my return .
I have wrestle with my soul till I be strengthless .
The stupid body be spend , and we be far from the Plains . '
` Behold ! '
she say simply , and draw aside to let Kim see his own utter helplessness .
` Curse me .
Maybe it will give him strength .
Make a charm !
Call on thy great God .
Thou art a priest . '
She turn away .
The lama have squat limply , still hold by the door-post .
One can not strike down an old man that he recover again like a boy in the night .
Weakness bow him to the earth , but his eye that hung on Kim be alive and imploring .
` It be all well , ' say Kim .
` It be the thin air that weaken thee .
In a little while we go !
It be the mountain-sickness .
I too be a little sick at stomach , ' -- and he kneel and comfort with such poor word a come first to his lip .
Then the woman return , more erect than ever .
` Thy Gods useless , heh ?
Try mine .
I be the Woman of Shamlegh . '
She hail hoarsely , and there come out of a cow-pen her two husband and three others with a dooli , the rude native litter of the Hills , that they use for carry the sick and for visit of state .
` These cattle ' -- she do not condescend to look at them -- ` be thine for so long a thou shalt need . '
` But we will not go Simla-way .
We will not go near the Sahibs , ' cry the first husband .
` They will not run away a the others do , nor will they steal baggage .
Two I know for weakling .
Stand to the rear-pole , Sonoo and Taree . '
They obey swiftly .
` Lower now , and lift in that holy man .
I will see to the village and your virtuous wife till ye return . '
` When will that be ? '
` Ask the priest .
Do not pester me .
Lay the food-bag at the foot , it balance well so . '
` Oh , Holy One , thy Hills be kind than our Plains ! '
cry Kim , relieve , a the lama totter to the litter .
` It be a very king 's bed -- a place of honour and ease .
And we owe it to -- ' ' A woman of ill-omen .
I need thy blessing as much a I do thy curse .
It be my order and none of thine .
Lift and away !
Here !
Hast thou money for the road ? '
She beckon Kim to her hut , and stoop above a battered English cash-box under her cot . '
I do not need anything , ' say Kim , anger where he should have be grateful . '
I be already rudely load with favour . '
She look up with a curious smile and lay a hand on his shoulder .
` At least , thank me .
I be foul-faced and a hillwoman , but , a thy talk go , I have acquire merit .
Shall I show thee how the Sahibs render thanks ? '
and her hard eye soften . '
I be but a wandering priest , ' say Kim , his eye light in answer .
` Thou needest neither my blessing nor my curse . '
` Nay .
But for one little moment -- thou canst overtake the dooli in ten stride -- if thou wast a Sahib , shall I show thee what thou wouldst do ? '
` How if I guess , though ? '
say Kim , and put his arm round her waist , he kiss her on the cheek , add in English : ` Thank you verree much , my dear . '
Kissing be practically unknown among Asiatics , which may have be the reason that she lean back with wide-open eye and a face of panic .
` Next time , ' Kim go on , ` you must not be so sure of your heatthen priest .
Now I say good-bye . '
He hold out his hand English-fashion .
She take it mechanically .
` Good-bye , my dear . '
` Good-bye , and -- and ' -- she be remember her English word one by one -- ` you will come back again ?
Good-bye , and -- thee God bless you . '
Half an hour later , a the creaking litter jolt up the hill path that lead south-easterly from Shamlegh , Kim saw a tiny figure at the hut door wave a white rag .
` She have acquire merit beyond all others , ' say the lama .
` For to set a man upon the way to Freedom be half as great a though she have herself find it . '
` Umm , ' say Kim thoughtfully , consider the past .
` It may be that I have acquire merit also ... At least she do not treat me like a child . '
He hitch the front of his robe , where lay the slab of document and map , re-stowed the precious food-bag at the lama 's foot , lay his hand on the litter 's edge , and buckle down to the slow pace of the grunting husband .
` These also acquire merit , ' say the lama after three mile .
` More than that , they shall be pay in silver , ' quoth Kim .
The Woman of Shamlegh have give it to him ; and it be only fair , he argue , that her men should earn it back again .
Chapter 15 I 'd not give room for an Emperor -- I 'd hold my road for a King .
To the Triple Crown I 'd not bow down -- But this be a different thing !
I 'll not fight with the Powers of Air -- Sentry , pas him through !
Drawbridge let fall -- He 's the Lord of u all -- The Dreamer whose dream come true !
The Siege of the Fairies .
Two hundred mile north of Chini , on the blue shale of Ladakh , lie Yankling Sahib , the merry-minded man , spy-glassing wrathfully across the ridge for some sign of his pet tracker -- a man from Ao-chung .
But that renegade , with a new Mannlicher rifle and two hundred cartridge , be elsewhere , shoot musk-deer for the market , and Yankling Sahib will learn next season how very ill he have be .
Up the valley of Bushahr -- the far-beholding eagle of the Himalayas swerve at his new blue-and-white gore umbrella -- hurry a Bengali , once fat and well-looking , now lean and weather-worn .
He have receive the thanks of two foreigner of distinction , pilot not unskilfully to Mashobra tunnel , which lead to the great and gay capital of India .
It be not his fault that , blanket by wet mist , he convey them past the telegraph-station and European colony of Kotgarh .
It be not his fault , but that of the Gods , of whom he discourse so engagingly , that he lead them into the border of Nahan , where the Rahah of that State mistake them for desert British soldiery .
Hurree Babu explain the greatness and glory , in their own country , of his companion , till the drowsy kinglet smile .
He explain it to everyone who ask -- many time -- aloud -- variously .
He beg food , arrange accommodation , prove a skilful leech for an injury of the groin -- such a blow a one may receive roll down a rock-covered hillside in the dark -- and in all thing indispensable .
The reason of his friendliness do him credit .
With million of fellow-serfs , he have learn to look upon Russia a the great deliverer from the North .
He be a fearful man .
He have be afraid that he could not save his illustrious employer from the anger of an excited peasantry .
He himself would just a lief hit a holy man a not , but ... He be deeply grateful and sincerely rejoice that he have do his ` little possible ' towards bring their venture to -- bar the lost baggage -- a successful issue , he have forget the blow ; deny that any blow have be deal that unseemly first night under the pine .
He ask neither pension nor retain fee , but , if they deem him worthy , would they write him a testimonial ?
It might be useful to him later , if others , their friend , come over the Passes .
He beg them to remember him in their future greatness , for he ` opine subtly ' that he , even he , Mohendro Lal Dutt , MA of Calcutta , have ` do the State some service ' .
They give him a certificate praise his courtesy , helpfulness , and unerring skill a a guide .
He put it in his waist-belt and sob with emotion ; they have endure so many danger together .
He lead them at high noon along crowd Simla Mall to the Alliance Bank of Simla , where they wish to establish their identity .
Thence he vanish like a dawn-cloud on Jakko .
Behold him , too fine-drawn to sweat , too press to vaunt the drug in his little brass-bound box , ascend Shamlegh slope , a just man make perfect .
Watch him , all Babudom lay aside , smoke at noon on a cot , while a woman with turquoise-studded headgear point south-easterly across the bare grass .
Litters , she say , do not travel as fast a single men , but his bird should now be in the Plains .
The holy man would not stay though Lispeth press him .
The Babu groan heavily , girds up his huge loin , and be off again .
He do not care to travel after dusk ; but his day ' march -- there be none to enter them in a book -- would astonish folk who mock at his race .
Kindly villager , remember the Dacca drug-vendor of two month ago , give him shelter against evil spirit of the wood .
He dream of Bengali Gods , University text-books of education , and the Royal Society , London , England .
Next dawn the bob blue-and-white umbrella go forward .
On the edge of the Doon , Mussoorie well behind them and the Plains spread out in golden dust before , rest a worn litter in which -- all the Hills know it -- lie a sick lama who seek a River for his healing .
Villages have almost come to blow over the honour of bear it , for not only have the lama give them blessing , but his disciple good money -- full one-third Sahibs ' price .
Twelve mile a day have the dooli travel , a the greasy , rub pole-ends show , and by road that few Sahibs use .
Over the Nilang Pass in storm when the driven snow-dust fill every fold of the impassive lama 's drapery ; between the black horn of Raieng where they hear the whistle of the wild goat through the cloud ; pitching and strain on the shale below ; hard-held between shoulder and clench jaw when they round the hideous curve of the Cut Road under Bhagirati ; swing and creak to the steady jog-trot of the descent into the Valley of the Waters ; press along the steamy level of that locked valley ; up , up and out again , to meet the roar gust off Kedarnath ; set down of mid-days in the dun gloom of kindly oak-forests ; pass from village to village in dawn-chill , when even devotee may be forgive for swear at impatient holy men ; or by torchlight , when the least fearful think of ghost -- the dooli have reach her last stage .
The little hill-folk sweat in the modified heat of the low Siwaliks , and gather round the priest for their blessing and their wage .
` Ye have acquire merit , ' say the lama .
` Merit great than your knowing .
And ye will return to the Hills , ' he sigh .
` Surely .
The high Hills as soon a may be . '
The bearer rub his shoulder , drink water , spit it out again , and readjust his grass sandal .
Kim -- his face be draw and tire -- pays very small silver from his belt , heave out the food-bag , cram an oilskin packet -- they be holy writing -- into his bosom , and help the lama to his foot .
The peace have come again into the old man 's eye , and he do not look for the hill to fall down and crush him a he do that terrible night when they be delay by the flood river .
The men pick up the dooli and swing out of sight between the scrub clump .
The lama raise a hand toward the rampart of the Himalayas .
` Not with you , O bless among all hill , fell the Arrow of Our Lord !
And never shall I breathe your air again ! '
` But thou art ten time the strong man in this good air , ' say Kim , for to his wearied soul appeal the well-cropped , kindly Plains .
` Here , or hereabouts , fell the Arrow , yes .
We will go very softly , perhaps , a kos a day , for the Search be sure .
But the bag weigh heavy . '
` Ay , our Search be sure .
I have come out of great temptation . '
It be never more than a couple of mile a day now , and Kim 's shoulder bore all the weight of it -- the burden of an old man , the burden of the heavy food-bag with the locked book , the load of the writing on his heart , and the detail of the daily routine .
He beg in the dawn , set blanket for the lama 's meditation , hold the weary head on his lap through the noonday heat , fan away the fly till his wrist ache , beg again in the evening , and rub the lama 's foot , who reward him with promise of Freedom -- today , tomorrow , or , at furthest , the next day .
` Never be such a chela .
I doubt at time whether Ananda more faithfully nursed Our Lord .
And thou art a Sahib ?
When I be a man -- a long time ago -- I forget that .
Now I look upon thee often , and every time I remember that thou art a Sahib .
It be strange . '
` Thou hast say there be neither black nor white .
Why plague me with this talk , Holy One ?
Let me rub the other foot .
It vex me .
I be not a Sahib .
I be thy chela , and my head be heavy on my shoulder . '
` Patience a little !
We reach Freedom together .
Then thou and I , upon the far bank of the River , will look back upon our life a in the Hills we saw our day ' march lay out behind u .
Perhaps I be once a Sahib . '
` Was never a Sahib like thee , I swear it . ' '
I be certain the Keeper of the Images in the Wonder House be in past life a very wise Abbot .
But even his spectacle do not make my eye see .
There fall shadow when I would look steadily .
No matter -- we know the trick of the poor stupid carcass -- shadow changing to another shadow .
I be bind by the illusion of Time and Space .
How far come we today in the flesh ? '
` Perhaps half a kos . '
-LRB- Three quarter of a mile , and it be a weary march . -RRB-
` Half a kos .
Ha !
I go ten thousand thousand in the spirit .
How , we be all lapped and swathed and swaddle in these senseless thing . '
He look at his thin blue-veined hand that find the bead so heavy .
` Chela , hast thou never a wish to leave me ? '
Kim thought of the oilskin packet and the book in the food-bag .
If someone duly authorize would only take delivery of them the Great Game might play itself for aught he then care .
He be tire and hot in his head , and a cough that come from the stomach worry him .
` No . '
he say almost sternly . '
I be not a dog or a snake to bite when I have learn to love . '
` Thou art too tender towards me . '
` Not that either .
I have move in one matter without consult thee .
I have send a message to the Kulu woman by that woman who give u the goat 's milk this morn , say that thou wast a little feeble and wouldst need a litter .
I beat myself in my mind that I do not do it when we enter the Doon .
We stay in this place till the litter return . ' '
I be content .
She be a woman with a heart of gold , a thou sayest , but a talker -- something of a talker . '
` She will not weary thee .
I have look to that also .
Holy One , my heart be very heavy for my many carelessness towards thee . '
An hysterical catch rise in his throat . '
I have walk thee too far : I have not pick good food always for thee ; I have not consider the heat ; I have talk to people on the road and leave thee alone ... I have -- I have ... Hai mai !
But I love thee ... and it be all too late ... I be a child ... Oh , why be I not a man ?
... ' Overborne by strain , fatigue , and the weight beyond his year , Kim break down and sob at the lama 's foot .
` What a to-do be here ! '
say the old man gently .
` Thou hast never step a hair 's breadth from the Way of Obedience .
Neglect me ?
Child , I have live on thy strength a an old tree live on the lime of a new wall .
Day by day , since Shamlegh down , I have steal strength from thee .
Therefore , not through any sin of thine , art thou weaken .
It be the Body -- the silly , stupid Body -- that speak now .
Not the assured Soul .
Be comfort !
Know at least the devil that thou fightest .
They be earth-born -- child of illusion .
We will go to the woman from Kulu .
She shall acquire merit in housing u , and specially in tend me .
Thou shalt run free till strength return .
I have forget the stupid Body .
If there be any blame , I bear it .
But we be too close to the Gates of Deliverance to weigh blame .
I could praise thee , but what need ?
In a little -- in a very little -- we shall sit beyond all need . '
And so he pet and comfort Kim with wise saw and grave text on that little-understood beast , our Body , who , be but a delusion , insist on pose a the Soul , to the darkening of the Way , and the immense multiplication of unnecessary devil .
` Hai !
hai !
Let u talk of the woman from Kulu .
Think you she will ask another charm for her grandson ?
When I be a young man , a very long time ago , I be plague with these vapour -- and some others -- and I go to an Abbot -- a very holy man and a seeker after truth , though then I know it not .
Sit up and listen , child of my soul !
My tale be tell .
Said he to me , `` Chela , know this .
There be many lie in the world , and not a few liar , but there be no liar like our body , except it be the sensation of our body . ''
Considering this I be comfort , and of his great favour he suffer me to drink tea In his presence .
Suffer me now to drink tea , for I be thirsty . '
With a laugh across his tear , Kim kiss the lama 's foot , and set about the tea-making .
` Thou lean on me in the body , Holy One , but I lean on thee for some other thing .
Dost know it ? ' '
I have guess maybe , ' and the lama 's eye twinkle .
` We must change that . '
So , when with scufflings and scraping and a hot air of importance , paddle up nothing less than the Sahiba 's pet palanquin send twenty mile , with that same grizzle old Oorya servant in charge , and when they reach the disorderly order of the long white rambling house behind Saharunpore , the lama take his own measure .
Said the Sahiba cheerily from an upper window , after compliment : ` What be the good of an old woman 's advice to an old man ?
I tell thee -- I tell thee , Holy One , to keep an eye upon the chela .
How didst thou do it ?
Never answer me !
I know .
He have be run among the woman .
Look at his eye -- hollow and sunk -- and the Betraying Line from the nose down !
He have be sift out !
Fie !
Fie !
And a priest , too ! '
Kim look up , over-weary to smile , shake his head in denial .
` Do not jest , ' say the lama .
` That time be do .
We be here upon great matter .
A sickness of soul take me in the Hills , and him a sickness of the body .
Since then I have live upon his strength -- eat him . '
` Children together -- young and old , ' she sniff , but forbore to make any new joke .
` May this present hospitality restore ye !
Hold awhile and I will come to gossip of the high good Hills . '
At evening time -- her son-in-law be return , so she do not need to go on inspection round the farm -- she win to the meat of the matter , explain low-voicedly by the lama .
The two old head nod wisely together .
Kim have reel to a room with a cot in it , and be doze soddenly .
The lama have forbid him to set blanket or get food . '
I know -- I know .
Who but I ? '
she cackle .
` We who go down to the burning-ghats clutch at the hand of those come up from the River of Life with full water-jars -- yes , brim water-jars .
I do the boy wrong .
He lend thee his strength ?
It be true that the old eat the young daily .
Stands now we must restore him . '
` Thou hast many time acquire merit -- ' ` My merit .
What be it ?
Old bag of bone make curry for men who do not ask `` Who cook this ? ''
Now if it be store up for my grandson -- ' ` He that have the belly-pain ? '
` To think the Holy One remember that !
I must tell his mother .
It be most singular honour !
`` He that have the belly-pain '' -- straightway the Holy One remember .
She will be proud . '
` My chela be to me a be a son to the unenlightened . '
` Say grandson , rather .
Mothers have not the wisdom of our year .
If a child cry they say the heaven be fall .
Now a grandmother be far enough separate from the pain of bearing and the pleasure of give the breast to consider whether a cry be wickedness pure or the wind .
And since thou speakest once again of wind , when last the Holy One be here , maybe I offend in press for charm . '
` Sister , ' say the lama , use that form of address a Buddhist monk may sometimes employ towards a nun , ` if charm comfort thee -- ' ` They be good than ten thousand doctor . ' '
I say , if they comfort thee , I who be Abbot of Such-zen , will make as many a thou mayest desire .
I have never see thy face -- ' ` That even the monkey who steal our loquat count for again .
Hee !
hee ! '
` But a he who sleep there say , ' -- he nod at the shut door of the guest-chamber across the forecourt -- ` thou hast a heart of gold ... And he be in the spirit my very `` grandson '' to me . '
` Good !
I be the Holy One 's cow . '
This be pure Hinduism , but the lama never heed . '
I be old .
I have borne son in the body .
Oh , once I could please men !
Now I can cure them . '
He hear her armlet tinkle a though she bar arm for action . '
I will take over the boy and dose him , and stuff him , and make him all whole .
Hai !
hai !
We old people know something yet . '
Wherefore when Kim , ache in every bone , open his eye , and would go to the cook-house to get his master 's food , he find strong coercion about him , and a veiled old figure at the door , flank by the grizzled manservant , who tell him very precisely the thing that he be on no account to do .
` Thou must have ?
Thou shalt have nothing .
What ?
A locked box in which to keep holy book ?
Oh , that be another matter .
Heavens forbid I should come between a priest and his prayer !
It shall be bring , and thou shalt keep the key . '
They push the coffer under his cot , and Kim shut away Mahbub 's pistol , the oilskin packet of letter , and the lock book and diary , with a groan of relief .
For some absurd reason their weight on his shoulder be nothing to their weight on his poor mind .
His neck ache under it of night .
` Thine be a sickness uncommon in youth these day : since young folk have give up tend their better .
The remedy be sleep , and certain drug , ' say the Sahiba ; and he be glad to give himself up to the blankness that half menace and half soothe him .
She brew drink , in some mysterious Asiatic equivalent to the still-room -- drenches that smelt pestilently and tasted worse .
She stand over Kim till they go down , and inquire exhaustively after they have come up .
She lay a taboo upon the forecourt , and enforce it by mean of an armed man .
It be true he be seventy odd , that his scabbarded sword cease at the hilt ; but he represent the authority of the Sahiba , and load wain , chatter servant , calf , dog , hen , and the like , fetch a wide compass by those part .
Best of all , when the body be clear , she cut out from the mass of poor relation that crowd the back of the building -- house-hold dog , we name them -- a cousin 's widow , skilled in what Europeans , who know nothing about it , call massage .
And the two of them , lay him east and west , that the mysterious earth-currents which thrill the clay of our body might help and not hinder , take him to piece all one long afternoon -- bone by bone , muscle by muscle , ligament by ligament , and lastly , nerve by nerve .
Kneaded to irresponsible pulp , half hypnotize by the perpetual flick and readjustment of the uneasy chudders that veil their eye , Kim slide ten thousand mile into slumber -- thirty-six hour of it -- sleep that soak like rain after drought .
Then she feed him , and the house spun to her clamour .
She cause fowl to be slay ; she send for vegetable , and the sober , slow-thinking gardener , nigh as old a she , sweat for it ; she take spice , and milk , and onion , with little fish from the brook -- anon lime for sherbet , fat quail from the pit , then chicken-livers upon a skewer , with sliced ginger between . '
I have see something of this world , ' she say over the crowded tray , ` and there be but two sort of woman in it -- those who take the strength out of a man and those who put it back .
Once I be that one , and now I be this .
Nay -- do not play the priestling with me .
Mine be but a jest .
If it do not hold good now , it will when thou takest the road again .
Cousin , ' -- this to the poor relation , never weary of extol her patroness 's charity -- ` he be get a bloom on the skin of a new-curried horse .
Our work be like polish jewel to be throw to a dance-girl -- eh ? '
Kim sit up and smile .
The terrible weakness have drop from him like an old shoe .
His tongue itch for free speech again , and but a week back the light word clog it like ash .
The pain in his neck -LRB- he must have catch it from the lama -RRB- have go with the heavy dengue-aches and the evil taste in the mouth .
The two old woman , a little , but not much , more careful about their veil now , cluck as merrily a the hen that have enter peck through the open door .
` Where be my Holy One ? '
he demand .
` Hear him !
Thy Holy One be well , ' she snap viciously .
` Though that be none of his merit .
Knew I a charm to make him wise , I 'd sell my jewel and buy it .
To refuse good food that I cook myself -- and go rove into the field for two night on an empty belly -- and to tumble into a brook at the end of it -- call you that holiness ?
Then , when he have nearly break what thou hast left of my heart with anxiety , he tell me that he have acquire merit .
Oh , how like be all men !
No , that be not it -- he tell me that he be free from all sin .
I could have tell him that before he wet himself all over .
He be well now -- this happen a week ago -- but burn me such holiness !
A babe of three would do good .
Do not fret thyself for the Holy One .
He keep both eye on thee when he be not wad our brook . ' '
I do not remember to have see him .
I remember that the day and night pass like bar of white and black , opening and shutting .
I be not sick : I be but tire . ' '
A lethargy that come by right some few score year later .
But it be do now . '
` Maharanee , ' Kim begin , but lead by the look in her eye , change it to the title of plain love -- ` Mother , I owe my life to thee .
How shall I make thanks ?
Ten thousand blessing upon thy house and -- ' ` The house be unblessed ! '
-LRB- It be impossible to give exactly the old lady 's word . -RRB-
` Thank the Gods a a priest if thou wilt , but thank me , if thou carest , a a son .
Heavens above !
Have I shift thee and lift thee and slap and twist thy ten toe to find texts flung at my head ?
Somewhere a mother must have bear thee to break her heart .
What use thou to her -- son ? ' '
I have no mother , my mother , ' say Kim .
` She die , they tell me , when I be young . '
` Hai mai !
Then none can say I have rob her of any right if -- when thou takest the road again and this house be but one of a thousand use for shelter and forgotten , after an easy-flung blessing .
No matter .
I need no blessing , but -- but -- ' She stamp her foot at the poor relation .
` Take up the tray to the house .
What be the good of stale food in the room , O woman of ill-omen ? ' '
I ha -- have bear a son in my time too , but he die , ' whimper the bow sister-figure behind the chudder .
` Thou knowest he die !
I only wait for the order to take away the tray . '
` It be I that be the woman of ill-omen , ' cry the old lady penitently .
` We that go down to the chattris -LSB- the big umbrella above the burning-ghats where the priest take their last due -RSB- clutch hard at the bearer of the chattis -LSB- water-jars -- young folk full of the pride of life , she mean ; but the pun be clumsy -RSB- .
When one can not dance in the festival one must e ` en look out of the window , and grandmothering take all a woman 's time .
Thy master give me all the charm I now desire for my daughter 's eldest , by reason -- be it ?
-- that he be wholly free from sin .
The hakim be bring very low these day .
He go about poison my servant for lack of their better . '
` What hakim , mother ? '
` That very Dacca man who give me the pill which rent me in three piece .
He cast up like a strayed camel a week ago , vow that he and thou have be blood-brothers together up Kulu-way , and feign great anxiety for thy health .
He be very thin and hungry , so I give order to have him stuff too -- him and his anxiety ! ' '
I would see him if he be here . '
` He eat five time a day , and lance boil for my hind to save himself from an apoplexy .
He be so full of anxiety for thy health that he stick to the cook-house door and stay himself with scrap .
He will keep .
We shall never get rid of him . '
` Send him here , mother ' -- the twinkle return to Kim 's eye for a flash -- ` and I will try . '
` I 'll send him , but to chase him off be an ill turn .
At least he have the sense to fish the Holy One out of the brook ; thus , a the Holy One do not say , acquire merit . '
` He be a very wise hakim .
Send him , mother . '
` Priest praise priest ?
A miracle !
If he be any friend of thine -LRB- ye squabble at your last meeting -RRB- I 'll hale him here with horse-ropes and -- and give him a caste-dinner afterwards , my son ... Get up and see the world !
This lying abed be the mother of seventy devil ... my son !
my son ! '
She trot forth to raise a typhoon off the cook-house , and almost on her shadow roll in the Babu , rob a to the shoulder like a Roman emperor , jowled like Titus , bare-headed , with new patent-leather shoe , in high condition of fat , exude joy and salutation .
` By Jove , Mister O'Hara , but I be jolly-glad to see you .
I will kindly shut the door .
It be a pity you be sick .
Are you very sick ? '
` The paper -- the paper from the kilta .
The map and the murasla ! '
He hold out the key impatiently ; for the present need on his soul be to get rid of the loot .
` You be quite right .
That be correct Departmental view to take .
You have get everything ? '
` All that be handwritten in the kilta I take .
The rest I throw down the hill . '
He could hear the key 's grate in the lock , the sticky pull of the slow-rending oilskin , and a quick shuffling of paper .
He have be annoy out of all reason by the knowledge that they lay below him through the sick idle day -- a burden incommunicable .
For that reason the blood tingle through his body , when Hurree , skip elephantinely , shake hand again .
` This be fine !
This be fine !
Mister O'Hara !
you have -- ha !
ha !
swipe the whole bag of trick -- lock , stock , and barrel .
They tell me it be eight month ' work go up the spout !
By Jove , how they beat me !
... Look , here be the letter from Hilas ! '
He intone a line or two of Court Persian , which be the language of authorized and unauthorized diplomacy .
` Mister Rajah Sahib have just about put his foot in the hole .
He will have to explain offeecially how the deuce-an ' - all he be write love-letters to the Czar .
And they be very clever map ... and there be three or four Prime Ministers of these part implicate by the correspondence .
By Gad , sar !
The British Government will change the succession in Hilas and Bunar , and nominate new heir to the throne .
`` Trea-son most base '' ... but you do not understand ?
Eh ? '
` Are they in thy hand ? '
say Kim .
It be all he care for .
` Just you jolly-well bet yourself they be . '
He stow the entire trove about his body , a only Orientals can .
` They be go up to the office , too .
The old lady think I be permanent fixture here , but I shall go away with these straight off -- immediately .
Mr Lurgan will be proud man .
You be offeecially subordinate to me , but I shall embody your name in my verbal report .
It be a pity we be not allow write report .
We Bengalis excel in thee exact science . '
He toss back the key and show the box empty .
` Good .
That be good .
I be very tired .
My Holy One be sick , too .
And do he fall into -- ' ` Oah yes .
I be his good friend , I tell you .
He be behave very strange when I come down after you , and I think perhaps he might have the paper .
I follow him on his meditation , and to discuss ethnological point also .
You see , I be verree small person here nowadays , in comparison with all his charm .
By Jove , O'Hara , do you know , he be afflict with infirmity of fit .
Yess , I tell you .
Cataleptic , too , if not also epileptic .
I find him in such a state under a tree in articulo mortem , and he jump up and walk into a brook and he be nearly drown but for me .
I pull him out . '
` Because I be not there ! '
say Kim .
` He might have die . '
` Yes , he might have die , but he be dry now , and assert he have undergone transfiguration . '
The Babu tap his forehead knowingly . '
I take note of his statement for Royal Society -- in posse .
You must make haste and be quite well and come back to Simla , and I will tell you all my tale at Lurgan 's .
It be splendid .
The bottom of their trouser be quite torn , and old Nahan Rajah , he think they be European soldier desert . '
` Oh , the Russians ?
How long be they with thee ? '
` One be a Frenchman .
Oh , day and day and day !
Now all the hill-people believe all Russians be all beggar .
By Jove !
they have not one dam ' - thing that I do not get them .
And I tell the common people -- oah , such tale and anecdote !
-- I will tell you at old Lurgan 's when you come up .
We will have -- ah -- a night out !
It be feather in both our cap !
Yess , and they give me a certificate .
That be cream joke .
You should have see them at the Alliance Bank identify themselves !
And thank Almighty God you get their paper so well !
You do not laugh verree much , but you shall laugh when you be well .
Now I will go straight to the railway and get out .
You shall have all sort of credit for your game .
When do you come along ?
We be very proud of you though you give u great fright .
And especially Mahbub . '
` Ay , Mahbub .
And where be he ? '
` Selling horse in this vi-cinity , of course . '
` Here !
Why ?
Speak slowly .
There be a thickness in my head still . '
The Babu look shyly down his nose .
` Well , you see , I be fearful man , and I do not like responsibility .
You be sick , you see , and I do not know where deuce-an ' - all the paper be , and if so , how many .
So when I have come down here I slip in private wire to Mahbub -- he be at Meerut for race -- and I tell him how case stand .
He come up with his men and he consort with the lama , and then he call me a fool , and be very rude -- ' ` But wherefore -- wherefore ? '
` That be what I ask .
I only suggest that if anyone steal the paper I should like some good strong , brave men to rob them back again .
You see , they be vitally important , and Mahbub Ali he do not know where you be . '
` Mahbub Ali to rob the Sahiba 's house ?
Thou art mad , Babu , ' say Kim with indignation . '
I want the paper .
Suppose she have steal them ?
It be only practical suggestion , I think .
You be not pleased , eh ? '
A native proverb -- unquotable -- show the blackness of Kim 's disapproval .
` Well , ' -- Hurree shrug his shoulder -- ` there be no accounting for thee taste .
Mahbub be angry too .
He have sell horse all about here , and he say old lady be pukka -LSB- thorough -RSB- old lady and would not condescend to such ungentlemanly thing .
I do not care .
I have get the paper , and I be very glad of moral support from Mahbub .
I tell you , I be fearful man , but , somehow or other , the more fearful I be the more dam ' - tight place I get into .
So I be glad you come with me to Chini , and I be glad Mahbub be close by .
The old lady she be sometimes very rude to me and my beautiful pill . '
` Allah be merciful ! '
say Kim on his elbow , rejoice .
` What a beast of wonder be a Babu !
And that man walk alone -- if he do walk -- with robbed and angry foreigner ! '
` Oah , thatt be nothing , after they have do beat me ; but if I lose the paper it be pretty-jolly serious .
Mahbub he nearly beat me too , and he go and consort with the lama no end .
I shall stick to ethnological investigation henceforwards .
Now good-bye , Mister O'Hara .
I can catch 4.25 p.m. to Umballa if I be quick .
It will be good time when we all tell thee tale up at Mr Lurgan 's .
I shall report you offeecially well .
Good-bye , my dear fallow , and when next you be under thee emotion please do not use the Mohammedan term with the Tibetan dress . '
He shake hands twice -- a Babu to his boot-heels -- and open the door .
With the fall of the sunlight upon his still triumphant face he return to the humble Dacca quack .
` He rob them , ' think Kim , forget his own share in the game .
` He trick them .
He lie to them like a Bengali .
They give him a chit -LSB- a testimonial -RSB- .
He make them a mock at the risk of his life -- I never would have go down to them after the pistol-shots -- and then he say he be a fearful man ... And he be a fearful man .
I must get into the world again . '
At first his legs bent like bad pipe-stems , and the flood and rush of the sunlit air dazzle him .
He squat by the white wall , the mind rummaging among the incident of the long dooli journey , the lama 's weakness , and , now that the stimulus of talk be remove , his own self-pity , of which , like the sick , he have great store .
The unnerved brain edge away from all the outside , a a raw horse , once rowelled , sidles from the spur .
It be enough , amply enough , that the spoil of the kilta be away -- off his hand -- out of his possession .
He try to think of the lama -- to wonder why he have tumble into a brook -- but the bigness of the world , see between the forecourt gate , sweep link thought aside .
Then he look upon the tree and the broad field , with the thatch hut hide among crop -- look with strange eye unable to take up the size and proportion and use of thing -- star for a still half-hour .
All that while he felt , though he could not put it into word , that his soul be out of gear with it surroundings -- a cog-wheel unconnected with any machinery , just like the idle cog-wheel of a cheap Beheea sugar-crusher laid by in a corner .
The breeze fan over him , the parrot shriek at him , the noise of the populate house behind -- squabble , order , and reproof -- hit on dead ear . '
I be Kim .
I be Kim .
And what be Kim ? '
His soul repeat it again and again .
He do not want to cry -- have never felt less like cry in his life -- but of a sudden easy , stupid tear trickle down his nose , and with an almost audible click he felt the wheel of his be lock up anew on the world without .
Things that ride meaningless on the eyeball an instant before slide into proper proportion .
Roads be mean to be walk upon , house to be live in , cattle to be drive , field to be till , and men and woman to be talk to .
They be all real and true -- solidly plant upon the foot -- perfectly comprehensible -- clay of his clay , neither more nor less .
He shake himself like a dog with a flea in his ear , and ramble out of the gate .
Said the Sahiba , to whom watchful eyes report this move : ` Let him go .
I have do my share .
Mother Earth must do the rest .
When the Holy One come back from meditation , tell him . '
There stand an empty bullock-cart on a little knoll half a mile away , with a young banyan tree behind -- a look-out , a it be , above some new-ploughed level ; and his eyelid , bath in soft air , grow heavy a he near it .
The ground be good clean dust -- no new herbage that , living , be half-way to death already , but the hopeful dust that hold the seed of all life .
He felt it between his toe , pat it with his palm , and joint by joint , sigh luxuriously , lay him down full length along in the shadow of the wooden-pinned cart .
And Mother Earth be as faithful a the Sahiba .
She breathe through him to restore the poise he have lose lie so long on a cot cut off from her good current .
His head lay powerless upon her breast , and his opened hand surrender to her strength .
The many-rooted tree above him , and even the dead manhandle wood beside , know what he seek , a he himself do not know .
Hour upon hour he lay deep than sleep .
Towards evening , when the dust of return kine make all the horizon smoke , come the lama and Mahbub Ali , both afoot , walk cautiously , for the house have tell them where he have go .
` Allah !
What a fool 's trick to play in open country ! '
mutter the horse-dealer .
` He could be shoot a hundred time -- but this be not the Border . '
` And , ' say the lama , repeat a many-times-told tale , ` never be such a chela .
Temperate , kindly , wise , of ungrudging disposition , a merry heart upon the road , never forgetting , learn , truthful , courteous .
Great be his reward ! ' '
I know the boy -- a I have say . '
` And he be all those thing ? '
` Some of them -- but I have not yet find a Red Hat 's charm for make him overly truthful .
He have certainly be well nurse . '
` The Sahiba be a heart of gold , ' say the lama earnestly .
` She look upon him a her son . '
` Hmph !
Half Hind seem that way dispose .
I only wish to see that the boy have come to no harm and be a free agent .
As thou knowest , he and I be old friend in the first day of your pilgrimage together . '
` That be a bond between u . '
The lama sit down .
` We be at the end of the pilgrimage . '
` No thanks to thee thine be not cut off for good and all a week back .
I hear what the Sahiba say to thee when we bore thee up on the cot . '
Mahbub laugh , and tug his newly dye beard . '
I be meditate upon other matter that tide .
It be the hakim from Dacca break my meditation . '
` Otherwise ' -- this be in Pushtu for decency 's sake -- ` thou wouldst have end thy meditation upon the sultry side of Hell -- be an unbeliever and an idolater for all thy child 's simplicity .
But now , Red Hat , what be to be do ? '
` This very night , ' -- the word come slowly , vibrate with triumph -- ` this very night he will be as free a I be from all taint of sin -- assure a I be , when he quit this body , of Freedom from the Wheel of Things .
I have a sign ' -- he lay his hand above the torn chart in his bosom -- ` that my time be short ; but I shall have safeguard him throughout the year .
Remember , I have reach Knowledge , a I tell thee only three night back . '
` It must be true , a the Tirah priest say when I steal his cousin 's wife , that I be a Sufi -LSB- a free-thinker -RSB- ; for here I sit , ' say Mahbub to himself , ` drinking in blasphemy unthinkable ... I remember the tale .
On that , then , he go to Fannatu l'Adn -LSB- the Gardens of Eden -RSB- .
But how ?
Wilt thou slay him or drown him in that wonderful river from which the Babu drag thee ? ' '
I be drag from no river , ' say the lama simply .
` Thou hast forget what befell .
I find it by Knowledge . '
` Oh , ay .
True , ' stammer Mahbub , divide between high indignation and enormous mirth . '
I have forget the exact run of what happen .
Thou didst find it knowingly . '
` And to say that I would take life be -- not a sin , but a madness simple .
My chela aid me to the River .
It be his right to be cleanse from sin -- with me . '
` Ay , he need cleansing .
But afterwards , old man -- afterwards ? '
` What matter under all the Heavens ?
He be sure of Nibban -- enlighten -- a I be . '
` Well say .
I have a fear he might mount Mohammed 's Horse and fly away . '
` Nay -- he must go forth a a teacher . '
` Aha !
Now I see !
That be the right gait for the colt .
Certainly he must go forth a a teacher .
He be somewhat urgently need a a scribe by the State , for instance . '
` To that end he be prepare .
I acquire merit in that I give alms for his sake .
A good deed do not die .
He aid me in my Search .
I aid him in his .
Just be the Wheel , O horse-seller from the North .
Let him be a teacher ; let him be a scribe -- what matter ?
He will have attain Freedom at the end .
The rest be illusion . '
` What matter ?
When I must have him with me beyond Balkh in six month !
I come up with ten lame horse and three strong-backed men -- thanks to that chicken of a Babu -- to break a sick boy by force out of an old trot 's house .
It seem that I stand by while a young Sahib be hoist into Allah know what of an idolater 's Heaven by mean of old Red Hat .
And I be reckoned something of a player of the Game myself !
But the madman be fond of the boy ; and I must be very reasonably mad too . '
` What be the prayer ? '
say the lama , a the rough Pushtu rumble into the red beard .
` No matter at all ; but now I understand that the boy , sure of Paradise , can yet enter Government service , my mind be easy .
I must get to my horse .
It grow dark .
Do not wake him .
I have no wish to hear him call thee master . '
` But he be my disciple .
What else ? '
` He have tell me . '
Mahbub choke down his touch of spleen and rise laugh . '
I be not altogether of thy faith , Red Hat -- if so small a matter concern thee . '
` It be nothing , ' say the lama . '
I think not .
Therefore it will not move thee , sinless , new-washed and three part drown to boot , when I call thee a good man -- a very good man .
We have talk together some four or five evening now , and for all I be a horse-coper I can still , a the saying be , see holiness beyond the leg of a horse .
Yea , can see , too , how our Friend of all the World put his hand in thine at the first .
Use him well , and suffer him to return to the world a a teacher , when thou hast -- bath his leg , if that be the proper medicine for the colt . '
` Why not follow the Way thyself , and so accompany the boy ? '
Mahbub star stupefy at the magnificent insolence of the demand , which across the Border he would have pay with more than a blow .
Then the humour of it touch his worldly soul .
` Softly -- softly -- one foot at a time , a the lame geld go over the Umballa jump .
I may come to Paradise later -- I have working that way -- great motion -- and I owe them to thy simplicity .
Thou hast never lie ? '
` What need ? ' '
O Allah , hear him !
`` What need '' in this Thy world !
Nor ever harm a man ? '
` Once -- with a pencase -- before I be wise . '
` So ?
I think the good of thee .
Thy teaching be good .
Thou hast turn one man that I know from the path of strife . '
He laugh immensely .
` He come here open-minded to commit a dacoity -LSB- a house-robbery with violence -RSB- .
Yes , to cut , rob , kill , and carry off what he desire . ' '
A great foolishness ! '
` Oh !
black shame too .
So he think after he have see thee -- and a few others , male and female .
So he abandon it ; and now he go to beat a big fat Babu man . ' '
I do not understand . '
` Allah forbid it !
Some men be strong in knowledge , Red Hat .
Thy strength be strong still .
Keep it -- I think thou wilt .
If the boy be not a good servant , pull his ear off . '
With a hitch of his broad Bokhariot belt the Pathan swagger off into the gloaming , and the lama come down from his cloud so far a to look at the broad back .
` That person lack courtesy , and be deceive by the shadow of appearance .
But he speak well of my chela , who now enter upon his reward .
Let me make the prayer !
... Wake , O fortunate above all born of woman .
Wake !
It be find ! '
Kim come up from those deep well , and the lama attend his yawning pleasure ; duly snap finger to head off evil spirit . '
I have sleep a hundred year .
Where -- ?
Holy One , hast thou be here long ?
I go out to look for thee , but ' -- he laugh drowsily -- ' I sleep by the way .
I be all well now .
Hast thou eaten ?
Let u go to the house .
It be many day since I tend thee .
And the Sahiba fed thee well ?
Who shampoo thy leg ?
What of the weakness -- the belly and the neck , and the beating in the ear ? '
` Gone -- all go .
Dost thou not know ? ' '
I know nothing , but that I have not see thee in a monkey 's age .
Know what ? '
` Strange the knowledge do not reach out to thee , when all my thought be theeward . ' '
I can not see the face , but the voice be like a gong .
Has the Sahiba make a young man of thee by her cookery ? '
He peer at the cross-legged figure , outline jet-black against the lemon-coloured drift of light .
So do the stone Bodhisat sit who look down upon the patent self-registering turnstile of the Lahore Museum .
The lama hold his peace .
Except for the click of the rosary and a faint clop-clop of Mahbub 's retreat foot , the soft , smoky silence of even in India wrap them close .
` Hear me !
I bring news . '
` But let u -- ' Out shot the long yellow hand compel silence .
Kim tuck his foot under his robe-edge obediently .
` Hear me !
I bring news !
The Search be finish .
Comes now the Reward ... Thus .
When we be among the Hills , I live on thy strength till the young branch bow and nigh broke .
When we come out of the Hills , I be trouble for thee and for other matter which I hold in my heart .
The boat of my soul lack direction ; I could not see into the Cause of Things .
So I give thee over to the virtuous woman altogether .
I take no food .
I drink no water .
Still I saw not the Way .
They press food upon me and cry at my shut door .
So I remove myself to a hollow under a tree .
I take no food .
I take no water .
I sit in meditation two day and two night , abstract my mind ; inbreathing and outbreathing in the required manner ... Upon the second night -- so great be my reward -- the wise Soul loose itself from the silly Body and go free .
This I have never before attained , though I have stand on the threshold of it .
Consider , for it be a marvel ! ' '
A marvel indeed .
Two day and two night without food !
Where be the Sahiba ? '
say Kim under his breath .
` Yea , my Soul go free , and , wheel like an eagle , saw indeed that there be no Teshoo Lama nor any other soul .
As a drop draw to water , so my Soul draw near to the Great Soul which be beyond all thing .
At that point , exalt in contemplation , I saw all Hind , from Ceylon in the sea to the Hills , and my own Painted Rocks at Such-zen ; I saw every camp and village , to the least , where we have ever rest .
I saw them at one time and in one place ; for they be within the Soul .
By this I know the Soul have pass beyond the illusion of Time and Space and of Things .
By this I know that I be free .
I saw thee lying in thy cot , and I saw thee fall downhill under the idolater -- at one time , in one place , in my Soul , which , a I say , have touch the Great Soul .
Also I saw the stupid body of Teshoo Lama lie down , and the hakim from Dacca kneel beside , shout in it ear .
Then my Soul be all alone , and I saw nothing , for I be all thing , have reach the Great Soul .
And I meditate a thousand thousand year , passionless , well aware of the Causes of all Things .
Then a voice cry : `` What shall come to the boy if thou art dead ? ''
and I be shake back and forth in myself with pity for thee ; and I say : `` I will return to my chela , lest he miss the Way . ''
Upon this my Soul , which be the Soul of Teshoo Lama , withdraw itself from the Great Soul with striving and yearning and retchings and agony not to be tell .
As the egg from the fish , a the fish from the water , a the water from the cloud , a the cloud from the thick air , so put forth , so leap out , so draw away , so fume up the Soul of Teshoo Lama from the Great Soul .
Then a voice cry : `` The River !
Take heed to the River ! ''
and I look down upon all the world , which be a I have see it before -- one in time , one in place -- and I saw plainly the River of the Arrow at my foot .
At that hour my Soul be hamper by some evil or other whereof I be not wholly cleanse , and it lay upon my arm and coil round my waist ; but I put it aside , and I cast forth a an eagle in my flight for the very place of the River .
I push aside world upon world for thy sake .
I saw the River below me -- the River of the Arrow -- and , descend , the water of it close over me ; and behold I be again in the body of Teshoo Lama , but free from sin , and the hakim from Decca bore up my head in the water of the River .
It be here !
It be behind the mango-tope here -- even here ! '
` Allah kerim !
Oh , well that the Babu be by !
Wast thou very wet ? '
` Why should I regard ?
I remember the hakim be concern for the body of Teshoo Lama .
He hale it out of the holy water in his hand , and there come afterwards thy horse-seller from the North with a cot and men , and they put the body on the cot and bore it up to the Sahiba 's house . '
` What say the Sahiba ? ' '
I be meditate in that body , and do not hear .
So thus the Search be end .
For the merit that I have acquire , the River of the Arrow be here .
It break forth at our foot , a I have say .
I have find it .
Son of my Soul , I have wrench my Soul back from the Threshold of Freedom to free thee from all sin -- a I be free , and sinless !
Just be the Wheel !
Certain be our deliverance !
Come ! '
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Puck_of_Pook's_Hill.txt.out
WELAND 'S SWORD Puck 's Song See you the dimpled track that run , All hollow through the wheat ?
O that be where they haul the gun That smite King Philip 's fleet !
See you our little mill that clack , So busy by the brook ?
She have ground her corn and pay her tax Ever since Domesday Book .
See you our stilly wood of oak , And the dread ditch beside ?
O that be where the Saxons break , On the day that Harold die !
See you the windy level spread About the gate of Rye ?
O that be where the Northmen flee , When Alfred 's ship come by !
See you our pasture wide and lone , Where the red ox browse ?
O there be a City throng and know , Ere London boast a house !
And see you , after rain , the trace Of mound and ditch and wall ?
O that be a Legion 's camping-place , When Csar sail from Gaul !
And see you mark that show and fade , Like shadow on the Downs ?
O they be the line the Flint Men make , To guard their wondrous town !
Trackway and Camp and City lose , Salt Marsh where now be corn ; Old Wars , old Peace , old Arts that cease , And so be England born !
She be not any common Earth , Water or Wood or Air , But Merlin 's Isle of Gramarye , Where you and I will fare .
The child be at the Theatre , act to Three Cows as much a they could remember of Midsummer Night 's Dream .
Their father have make them a small play out of the big Shakespeare one , and they have rehearse it with him and with their mother till they could say it by heart .
They begin when Nick Bottom the weaver come out of the bush with a donkey 's head on his shoulder , and find Titania , Queen of the Fairies , asleep .
Then they skip to the part where Bottom ask three little fairy to scratch his head and bring him honey , and they end where he fall asleep in Titania 's arm .
Dan be Puck and Nick Bottom , as well a all three Fairies .
He wear a pointy-eared cloth cap for Puck , and a paper donkey 's head out of a Christmas cracker -- but it tore if you be not careful -- for Bottom .
Una be Titania , with a wreath of columbine and a foxglove wand .
The Theatre lay in a meadow call the Long Slip .
A little mill-stream , carry water to a mill two or three field away , bent round one corner of it , and in the middle of the bend lay a large old Fairy Ring of darkened grass , which be the stage .
The millstream bank , overgrown with willow , hazel , and guelder-rose , make convenient place to wait in till your turn come ; and a grown-up who have see it say that Shakespeare himself could not have imagine a more suitable setting for his play .
They be not , of course , allow to act on Midsummer Night itself , but they go down after tea on Midsummer Eve , when the shadow be grow , and they take their supper -- hard-boiled egg , Bath Oliver biscuit , and salt in an envelope -- with them .
Three Cows have be milk and be graze steadily with a tear noise that one could hear all down the meadow ; and the noise of the Mill at work sound like bare foot run on hard ground .
A cuckoo sat on a gate-post sing his broken June tune , ` cuckoo-cuk ' , while a busy kingfisher cross from the mill-stream , to the brook which run on the other side of the meadow .
Everything else be a sort of thick , sleepy stillness smelling of meadow-sweet and dry grass .
Their play go beautifully .
Dan remember all his part -- Puck , Bottom , and the three Fairies -- and Una never forget a word of Titania -- not even the difficult piece where she tell the Fairies how to fee Bottom with ` apricocks , green fig , and dewberry ' , and all the line end in ` y ' .
They be both so pleased that they act it three time over from begin to end before they sit down in the unthistly centre of the Ring to eat egg and Bath Olivers .
This be when they hear a whistle among the alder on the bank , and they jump .
The bush part .
In the very spot where Dan have stand a Puck they saw a small , brown , broad-shouldered , pointy-eared person with a snub nose , slant blue eye , and a grin that run right across his freckled face .
He shade his forehead a though he be watch Quince , Snout , Bottom , and the others rehearse Pyramus and Thisbe , and , in a voice as deep a Three Cows ask to be milk , he begin : ` What hempen homespun have we swagger here , So near the cradle of our fairy Queen ? '
He stop , hollow one hand round his ear , and , with a wicked twinkle in his eye , go on : ` What , a play toward ?
I 'll be auditor ; An actor , too , perhaps , if I see cause . '
The child look and gasp .
The small thing -- he be no taller than Dan 's shoulder -- step quietly into the Ring .
` I 'm rather out of practice , ' say he ; ` but that 's the way my part ought to be play . '
Still the child star at him -- from his dark-blue cap , like a big columbine flower , to his bare , hairy foot .
At last he laugh .
` Please do n't look like that .
It be n't my fault .
What else could you expect ? '
he say .
` We do n't expect any one , ' Dan answer , slowly .
` This be our field . '
` Is it ? '
say their visitor , sit down .
` Then what on Human Earth make you act Midsummer Night 's Dream three time over , on Midsummer Eve , in the middle of a Ring , and under -- right under one of my old hill in Old England ?
Pook 's Hill -- Puck 's Hill -- Puck 's Hill -- Pook 's Hill !
It 's as plain a the nose on my face . '
He point to the bare , fern-covered slope of Pook 's Hill that run up from the far side of the mill-stream to a dark wood .
Beyond that wood the ground rise and rise for five hundred foot , till at last you climb out on the bare top of Beacon Hill , to look over the Pevensey Levels and the Channel and half the naked South Downs .
` By Oak , Ash , and Thorn ! '
he cry , still laugh .
` If this have happen a few hundred year ago you 'd have have all the People of the Hills out like bee in June ! '
` We do n't know it be wrong , ' say Dan .
` Wrong ! '
The little fellow shook with laughter .
` Indeed , it be n't wrong .
You 've do something that Kings and Knights and Scholars in old day would have give their crown and spur and book to find out .
If Merlin himself have help you , you could n't have manage well !
You 've break the Hills -- you 've break the Hills !
It have n't happen in a thousand year . '
` We -- we do n't mean to , ' say Una .
` Of course you do n't !
That 's just why you do it .
Unluckily the Hills be empty now , and all the People of the Hills be go .
I 'm the only one left .
I 'm Puck , the old Old Thing in England , very much at your service if -- if you care to have anything to do with me .
If you do n't , of course you 've only to say so , and I 'll go . '
He look at the child , and the child look at him for quite half a minute .
His eye do not twinkle any more .
They be very kind , and there be the beginning of a good smile on his lip .
Una put out her hand .
` Do n't go , ' she say .
` We like you . '
` Have a Bath Oliver , ' say Dan , and he pass over the squashy envelope with the egg .
` By Oak , Ash and Thorn , ' cried Puck , take off his blue cap , ' I like you too .
Sprinkle a plenty salt on the biscuit , Dan , and I 'll eat it with you .
That 'll show you the sort of person I be .
Some of u ' -- he go on , with his mouth full -- ` could n't abide Salt , or Horse-shoes over a door , or Mountain-ash berry , or Running Water , or Cold Iron , or the sound of Church Bells .
But I 'm Puck ! '
He brush the crumb carefully from his doublet and shook hand .
` We always say , Dan and I , ' Una stammer , ` that if it ever happen we 'd know ex-actly what to do ; but -- but now it seem all different somehow . '
` She mean meet a fairy , ' say Dan . '
I never believe in 'em -- not after I be six , anyhow . ' '
I do , ' say Una .
` At least , I sort of half believe till we learn `` Farewell Rewards '' .
Do you know `` Farewell Rewards and Fairies '' ? '
` Do you mean this ? '
say Puck .
He throw his big head back and begin at the second line : ` Good housewife now may say , For now foul slut in dairy Do fare as well a they ; And though they sweep their hearths no less -LRB- ` Join in , Una ! ' -RRB-
Than maid be wont to do , Yet who of late for cleanliness Finds sixpence in her shoe ? '
The echo flap all along the flat meadow .
` Of course I know it , ' he say .
` And then there 's the verse about the ring , ' say Dan .
` When I be little it always make me feel unhappy in my inside . ' '
`` Witness those ring and roundelay '' , do you mean ? '
boom Puck , with a voice like a great church organ .
` Of theirs which yet remain , Were foot in Queen Mary 's day On many a grassy plain , But since of late Elizabeth , And , later , James come in , Are never see on any heath As when the time hath be . '
` It 's some time since I hear that sung , but there 's no good beating about the bush : it 's true .
The People of the Hills have all leave .
I saw them come into Old England and I saw them go .
Giants , troll , kelpy , brownie , goblin , imp ; wood , tree , mound , and water spirit ; heath-people , hill-watchers , treasure-guards , good people , little people , pishogues , leprechaun , night-riders , pixy , nixies , gnome , and the rest -- go , all go !
I come into England with Oak , Ash and Thorn , and when Oak , Ash and Thorn be go I shall go too . '
Dan look round the meadow -- at Una 's Oak by the low gate ; at the line of ash tree that overhang Otter Pool where the mill-stream spill over when the Mill do not need it , and at the gnarled old white-thorn where Three Cows scratch their neck .
` It 's all right , ' he say ; and add , ` I 'm plant a lot of acorn this autumn too . '
` Then be n't you most awfully old ? '
say Una .
` Not old -- fairly long-lived , a folk say hereabouts .
Let me see -- my friend use to set my dish of cream for me o ' night when Stonehenge be new .
Yes , before the Flint Men make the Dewpond under Chanctonbury Ring . '
Una clasp her hand , cry ` Oh ! '
and nod her head .
` She 's think a plan , ' Dan explain .
` She always do like that when she think a plan . ' '
I be think -- suppose we save some of our porridge and put it in the attic for you ?
They 'd notice if we leave it in the nursery . '
` Schoolroom , ' say Dan quickly , and Una flush , because they have make a solemn treaty that summer not to call the schoolroom the nursery any more .
` Bless your heart o ' gold ! '
say Puck .
` You 'll make a fine consider wench some market-day .
I really do n't want you to put out a bowl for me ; but if ever I need a bite , be sure I 'll tell you . '
He stretch himself at length on the dry grass , and the child stretch out beside him , their bare legs wave happily in the air .
They felt they could not be afraid of him any more than of their particular friend old Hobden the hedger .
He do not bother them with grown-up question , or laugh at the donkey 's head , but lay and smile to himself in the most sensible way .
` Have you a knife on you ? '
he say at last .
Dan hand over his big one-bladed outdoor knife , and Puck begin to carve out a piece of turf from the centre of the Ring .
` What 's that for -- Magic ? '
say Una , a he press up the square of chocolate loam that cut like so much cheese .
` One of my little magic , ' he answer , and cut another .
` You see , I ca n't let you into the Hills because the People of the Hills have go ; but if you care to take seizin from me , I may be able to show you something out of the common here on Human Earth .
You certainly deserve it . '
` What 's take seizin ? '
say Dan , cautiously .
` It 's an old custom the people have when they buy and sell land .
They use to cut out a clod and hand it over to the buyer , and you be n't lawfully seize of your land -- it do n't really belong to you -- till the other fellow have actually give you a piece of it -- like this . '
He hold out the turf .
` But it 's our own meadow , ' say Dan , draw back .
` Are you go to magic it away ? '
Puck laugh . '
I know it 's your meadow , but there 's a great deal more in it than you or your father ever guess .
Try ! '
He turn his eye on Una .
` I 'll do it , ' she say .
Dan follow her example at once .
` Now be you two lawfully seize and possess of all Old England , ' begin Puck , in a sing-song voice .
` By right of Oak , Ash , and Thorn be you free to come and go and look and know where I shall show or best you please .
You shall see What you shall see and you shall hear What you shall hear , though It shall have happen three thousand year ; and you shall know neither Doubt nor Fear .
Fast !
Hold fast all I give you . '
The child shut their eye , but nothing happen .
` Well ? '
say Una , disappointedly open them . '
I think there would be dragon . ' '
`` Though It shall have happen three thousand year , '' ' say Puck , and count on his finger .
` No ; I 'm afraid there be no dragon three thousand year ago . '
` But there have n't happen anything at all , ' say Dan .
` Wait awhile , ' say Puck .
` You do n't grow an oak in a year -- and Old England 's old than twenty oak .
Let 's sit down again and think .
I can do that for a century at a time . '
` Ah , but you 're a fairy , ' say Dan .
` Have you ever hear me say that word yet ? '
say Puck quickly .
` No .
You talk about `` the People of the Hills '' , but you never say `` fairy '' , ' say Una . '
I be wonder at that .
Do n't you like it ? '
` How would you like to be call `` mortal '' or `` human be '' all the time ? '
say Puck ; ` or `` son of Adam '' or `` daughter of Eve '' ? ' '
I should n't like it at all , ' say Dan .
` That 's how the Djinns and Afrits talk in the Arabian Nights . '
` And that 's how I feel about say -- that word that I do n't say .
Besides , what you call them be made-up thing the People of the Hills have never hear of -- little buzzflies with butterfly wing and gauze petticoat , and shiny star in their hair , and a wand like a schoolteacher 's cane for punish bad boy and reward good one .
I know 'em ! '
` We do n't mean that sort , ' say Dan .
` We hate 'em too . '
` Exactly , ' say Puck .
` Can you wonder that the People of the Hills do n't care to be confuse with that painty-winged , wand-waving , sugar-and-shake-your-head set of impostor ?
Butterfly wing , indeed !
I 've see Sir Huon and a troop of his people set off from Tintagel Castle for Hy-Brasil in the teeth of a sou ' - westerly gale , with the spray fly all over the Castle , and the Horses of the Hills wild with fright .
Out they 'd go in a lull , scream like gull , and back they 'd be drive five good mile inland before they could come head to wind again .
Butterfly-wings !
It be Magic -- Magic as black a Merlin could make it , and the whole sea be green fire and white foam with sing mermaid in it .
And the Horses of the Hills pick their way from one wave to another by the lightning flash !
That be how it be in the old day ! '
` Splendid , ' say Dan , but Una shudder .
` I 'm glad they 're go , then ; but what make the People of the Hills go away ? '
Una ask .
` Different thing .
I 'll tell you one of them some day -- the thing that make the big flit of any , ' say Puck .
` But they do n't all flit at once .
They drop off , one by one , through the century .
Most of them be foreigner who could n't stand our climate .
They flit early . '
` How early ? '
say Dan . '
A couple of thousand year or more .
The fact be they begin a Gods .
The Phoenicians bring some over when they come to buy tin ; and the Gauls , and the Jutes , and the Danes , and the Frisians , and the Angles bring more when they land .
They be always land in those day , or be drive back to their ship , and they always bring their Gods with them .
England be a bad country for Gods .
Now , I begin a I mean to go on .
A bowl of porridge , a dish of milk , and a little quiet fun with the country folk in the lane be enough for me then , a it be now .
I belong here , you see , and I have be mix up with people all my day .
But most of the others insist on be Gods , and have temple , and altar , and priest , and sacrifice of their own . '
` People burn in wicker basket ? '
say Dan .
` Like Miss Blake tell u about ? '
` All sort of sacrifice , ' say Puck .
` If it be n't men , it be horse , or cattle , or pig , or metheglin -- that 's a sticky , sweet sort of beer .
I never like it .
They be a stiff-necked , extravagant set of idol , the Old Things .
But what be the result ?
Men do n't like be sacrifice at the best of time ; they do n't even like sacrifice their farm-horses .
After a while , men simply leave the Old Things alone , and the roof of their temple fell in , and the Old Things have to scuttle out and pick up a living a they could .
Some of them take to hang about tree , and hide in graf and groan o ' night .
If they groan loud enough and long enough they might frighten a poor countryman into sacrifice a hen , or leave a pound of butter for them .
I remember one Goddess call Belisama .
She become a common wet water-spirit somewhere in Lancashire .
And there be hundred of other friend of mine .
First they be Gods .
Then they be People of the Hills , and then they flit to other place because they could n't get on with the English for one reason or another .
There be only one Old Thing , I remember , who honestly work for his living after he come down in the world .
He be call Weland , and he be a smith to some Gods .
I 've forget their name , but he use to make them sword and spear .
I think he claim kin with Thor of the Scandinavians . ' '
Heroes of Asgard Thor ? '
say Una .
She have be read the book .
` Perhaps , ' answered Puck .
` None the less , when bad time come , he do n't beg or steal .
He work ; and I be lucky enough to be able to do him a good turn . '
` Tell u about it , ' say Dan . '
I think I like hear of Old Things . '
They rearrange themselves comfortably , each chew a grass stem .
Puck prop himself on one strong arm and go on : ` Let 's think !
I meet Weland first on a November afternoon in a sleet storm , on Pevensey Level -- ' ` Pevensey ?
Over the hill , you mean ? '
Dan point south .
` Yes ; but it be all marsh in those day , right up to Horsebridge and Hydeneye .
I be on Beacon Hill -- they call it Brunanburgh then -- when I saw the pale flame that burn thatch make , and I go down to look .
Some pirate -- I think they must have be Peofn 's men -- be burn a village on the Levels , and Weland 's image -- a big , black wooden thing with amber bead round his neck -- lay in the bow of a black thirty-two-oar galley that they have just beach .
Bitter cold it be !
There be icicle hang from her deck and the oar be glaze over with ice , and there be ice on Weland 's lip .
When he saw me he begin a long chant in his own tongue , tell me how he be go to rule England , and how I should smell the smoke of his altar from Lincolnshire to the Isle of Wight .
I do n't care !
I 'd see too many Gods charge into Old England to be upset about it .
I let him sing himself out while his men be burn the village , and then I say -LRB- I do n't know what put it into my head -RRB- , `` Smith of the Gods , '' I say , `` the time come when I shall meet you ply your trade for hire by the wayside . '' '
` What do Weland say ? '
say Una .
` Was he angry ? '
` He call me name and roll his eye , and I go away to wake up the people inland .
But the pirate conquer the country , and for century Weland be a most important God .
He have temple everywhere -- from Lincolnshire to the Isle of Wight , a he say -- and his sacrifice be simply scandalous .
To do him justice , he prefer horse to men ; but men or horse , I know that presently he 'd have to come down in the world -- like the other Old Things .
I give him lot of time -- I give him about a thousand year -- and at the end of 'em I go into one of his temple near Andover to see how he prosper .
There be his altar , and there be his image , and there be his priest , and there be the congregation , and everybody seem quite happy , except Weland and the priest .
In the old day the congregation be unhappy until the priest have choose their sacrifice ; and so would you have be .
When the service begin a priest rush out , drag a man up to the altar , pretend to hit him on the head with a little gilt axe , and the man fell down and pretend to die .
Then everybody shout : `` A sacrifice to Weland !
A sacrifice to Weland ! '' '
` And the man be n't really dead ? '
say Una .
` Not a bit .
All a much pretence a a doll ' tea-party .
Then they bring out a splendid white horse , and the priest cut some hair from it mane and tail and burn it on the altar , shouting , `` A sacrifice ! ''
That count the same a if a man and a horse have be kill .
I saw poor Weland 's face through the smoke , and I could n't help laughing .
He look so disgusted and so hungry , and all he have to satisfy himself be a horrid smell of burn hair .
Just a doll ' tea-party ! '
I judge it well not to say anything then -LRB- ` twould n't have be fair -RRB- , and the next time I come to Andover , a few hundred year later , Weland and his temple be go , and there be a Christian bishop in a church there .
None of the People of the Hills could tell me anything about him , and I suppose that he have leave England . '
Puck turn ; lay on the other elbow , and think for a long time .
` Let 's see , ' he say at last .
` It must have be some few year later -- a year or two before the Conquest , I think -- that I come back to Pook 's Hill here , and one evening I hear old Hobden talk about Weland 's Ford . '
` If you mean old Hobden the hedger , he 's only seventy-two .
He tell me so himself , ' say Dan .
` He 's a intimate friend of ours . '
` You 're quite right , ' Puck reply . '
I mean old Hobden 's ninth great-grandfather .
He be a free man and burn charcoal hereabouts .
I 've know the family , father and son , so long that I get confuse sometimes .
Hob of the Dene be my Hobden 's name , and he live at the Forge cottage .
Of course , I prick up my ear when I hear Weland mention , and I scuttle through the wood to the Ford just beyond Bog Wood yonder . '
He jerk his head westward , where the valley narrow between wooded hill and steep hop-fields .
` Why , that 's Willingford Bridge , ' say Una .
` We go there for walk often .
There 's a kingfisher there . '
` It be Weland 's Ford then , dear .
A road lead down to it from the Beacon on the top of the hill -- a shocking bad road it be -- and all the hillside be thick , thick oak-forest , with deer in it .
There be no trace of Weland , but presently I saw a fat old farmer rid down from the Beacon under the greenwood tree .
His horse have cast a shoe in the clay , and when he come to the Ford he dismount , take a penny out of his purse , lay it on a stone , tie the old horse to an oak , and call out : `` Smith , Smith , here be work for you ! ''
Then he sit down and go to sleep .
You can imagine how I felt when I saw a white-bearded , bent old blacksmith in a leather apron creep out from behind the oak and begin to shoe the horse .
It be Weland himself .
I be so astonished that I jump out and say : `` What on Human Earth be you do here , Weland ? '' '
` Poor Weland ! '
sigh Una .
` He push the long hair back from his forehead -LRB- he do n't recognize me at first -RRB- .
Then he say : '' You ought to know .
You foretell it , Old Thing .
I 'm shoe horse for hire .
I 'm not even Weland now , '' he say .
`` They call me Wayland-Smith . '' '
` Poor chap ! '
say Dan .
` What do you say ? '
` What could I say ?
He look up , with the horse 's foot on his lap , and he say , smile , `` I remember the time when I would n't have accept this old bag of bone a a sacrifice , and now I 'm glad enough to shoe him for a penny . '' '
`` Is n't there any way for you to get back to Valhalla , or wherever you come from ? ''
I say . '
`` I 'm afraid not , '' he say , rasp away at the hoof .
He have a wonderful touch with horse .
The old beast be whinny on his shoulder .
`` You may remember that I be not a gentle God in my Day and my Time and my Power .
I shall never be release till some human be truly wish me well . '' '
`` Surely , '' say I , `` the farmer ca n't do less than that .
You 're shoe the horse all round for him . '' '
`` Yes , '' say he , `` and my nail will hold a shoe from one full moon to the next .
But farmer and Weald clay , '' say he , `` be both uncommon cold and sour . ''
` Would you believe it , that when that farmer wake and find his horse shod he ride away without one word of thanks ?
I be so angry that I wheel his horse right round and walk him back three mile to the Beacon , just to teach the old sinner politeness . '
` Were you invisible ? '
say Una .
Puck nod , gravely .
` The Beacon be always lay in those day ready to light , in case the French land at Pevensey ; and I walk the horse about and about it that lee-long summer night .
The farmer think he be bewitch -- well , he be , of course -- and begin to pray and shout .
I do n't care !
I be as good a Christian a he any fair-day in the County , and about four o'clock in the morning a young novice come along from the monastery that use to stand on the top of Beacon Hill . '
` What 's a novice ? '
say Dan .
` It really mean a man who be begin to be a monk , but in those day people send their son to a monastery just the same a a school .
This young fellow have be to a monastery in France for a few month every year , and he be finish his study in the monastery close to his home here .
Hugh be his name , and he have get up to go fishing hereabouts .
His people own all this valley .
Hugh hear the farmer shouting , and ask him what in the world he mean .
The old man spin him a wonderful tale about fairy and goblin and witch ; and I know he have n't see a thing except rabbit and red deer all that night .
-LRB- The People of the Hills be like otter -- they do n't show except when they choose . -RRB-
But the novice be n't a fool .
He look down at the horse 's foot , and saw the new shoe fasten a only Weland know how to fasten 'em .
-LRB- Weland have a way of turn down the nail that folk call the Smith 's Clinch . -RRB- '
`` H 'm ! ''
say the novice .
`` Where do you get your horse shod ? ''
` The farmer would n't tell him at first , because the priest never like their people to have any dealing with the Old Things .
At last he confess that the Smith have do it .
`` What do you pay him ? ''
say the novice .
`` Penny , '' say the farmer , very sulkily .
`` That 's less than a Christian would have charge , '' say the novice .
`` I hope you throw a ` Thank you ' into the bargain . ''
`` No , '' say the farmer ; `` Wayland-Smith 's a heathen . ''
`` Heathen or no heathen , '' say the novice , `` you take his help , and where you get help there you must give thanks . ''
`` What ? ''
say the farmer -- he be in a furious temper because I be walk the old horse in circle all this time -- `` What , you young jackanapes ? ''
say he .
`` Then by your reason I ought to say ` Thank you ' to Satan if he help me ? ''
`` Do n't roll about up there split reason with me , '' say the novice .
`` Come back to the Ford and thank the Smith , or you 'll be sorry . ''
` Back the farmer have to go .
I lead the horse , though no one saw me , and the novice walk beside u , his gown swishing through the shiny dew and his fishing-rod across his shoulder , spear-wise .
When we reach the Ford again -- it be five o'clock and misty still under the oak -- the farmer simply would n't say `` Thank you . ''
He say he 'd tell the Abbot that the novice want him to worship heathen Gods .
Then Hugh the novice lose his temper .
He just cry , `` Out ! ''
put his arm under the farmer 's fat leg , and heave him from his saddle on to the turf , and before he could rise he catch him by the back of the neck and shake him like a rat till the farmer growl , `` Thank you , Wayland-Smith . '' '
` Did Weland see all this ? '
say Dan .
` Oh yes , and he shout his old war-cry when the farmer thud on to the ground .
He be delight .
Then the novice turn to the oak tree and say , `` Ho , Smith of the Gods !
I be ashamed of this rude farmer ; but for all you have do in kindness and charity to him and to others of our people , I thank you and wish you well . ''
Then he pick up his fishing-rod -- it look more like a tall spear than ever -- and tramp off down your valley . '
` And what do poor Weland do ? '
say Una .
` He laugh and he cry with joy , because he have be release at last , and could go away .
But he be an honest Old Thing .
He have work for his living and he pay his debt before he leave .
`` I shall give that novice a gift , '' say Weland .
`` A gift that shall do him good the wide world over and Old England after him .
Blow up my fire , Old Thing , while I get the iron for my last task . ''
Then he make a sword -- a dark-grey , wavy-lined sword -- and I blow the fire while he hammer .
By Oak , Ash and Thorn , I tell you , Weland be a Smith of the Gods !
He cool that sword in run water twice , and the third time he cool it in the evening dew , and he lay it out in the moonlight and say Runes -LRB- that 's charm -RRB- over it , and he carve Runes of Prophecy on the blade .
`` Old Thing , '' he say to me , wipe his forehead , `` this be the best blade that Weland ever make .
Even the user will never know how good it be .
Come to the monastery . ''
` We go to the dormitory where the monk sleep , we saw the novice fast asleep in his cot , and Weland put the sword into his hand , and I remember the young fellow grip it in his sleep .
Then Weland strode as far a he dare into the Chapel and throw down all his shoeing-tools -- his hammer and pincer and rasp -- to show that he have do with them for ever .
It sound like suit of armour fall , and the sleepy monk run in , for they think the monastery have be attack by the French .
The novice come first of all , wave his new sword and shout Saxon battle-cries .
When they saw the shoeing-tools they be very bewilder , till the novice ask leave to speak , and tell what he have do to the farmer , and what he have say to Wayland-Smith , and how , though the dormitory light be burn , he have find the wonderful rune-carved sword in his cot .
` The Abbot shake his head at first , and then he laugh and say to the novice : `` Son Hugh , it need no sign from a heathen God to show me that you will never be a monk .
Take your sword , and keep your sword , and go with your sword , and be as gentle a you be strong and courteous .
We will hang up the Smith 's tool before the Altar , '' he say , `` because , whatever the Smith of the Gods may have be , in the old day , we know that he work honestly for his living and make gift to Mother Church . ''
Then they go to bed again , all except the novice , and he sit up in the garth play with his sword .
Then Weland say to me by the stable : `` Farewell , Old Thing ; you have the right of it .
You saw me come to England , and you see me go .
Farewell ! ''
` With that he stride down the hill to the corner of the Great Woods -- Woods Corner , you call it now -- to the very place where he have first land -- and I hear him move through the thicket towards Horsebridge for a little , and then he be go .
That be how it happen .
I saw it . '
Both child draw a long breath .
` But what happen to Hugh the novice ? '
say Una .
` And the sword ? '
say Dan .
Puck look down the meadow that lay all quiet and cool in the shadow of Pook 's Hill .
A corncrake jar in a hay-field near by , and the small trout of the brook begin to jump .
A big white moth fly unsteadily from the alder and flap round the child 's head , and the least little haze of water-mist rise from the brook .
` Do you really want to know ? '
Puck say .
` We do , ' cry the child .
` Awfully ! '
` Very good .
I promise you that you shall see What you shall see , and you shall hear What you shall hear , though It shall have happen three thousand year ; but just now it seem to me that , unless you go back to the house , people will be look for you .
I 'll walk with you as far a the gate . '
` Will you be here when we come again ? '
they ask .
` Surely , sure-ly , ' say Puck .
` I 've be here some time already .
One minute first , please . '
He give them each three leaf -- one of Oak , one of Ash and one of Thorn .
` Bite these , ' say he .
` Otherwise you might be talk at home of what you 've see and hear , and -- if I know human being -- they 'd send for the doctor .
Bite ! '
They bit hard , and find themselves walk side by side to the low gate .
Their father be lean over it .
` And how do your play go ? '
he ask .
` Oh , splendidly , ' say Dan .
` Only afterwards , I think , we go to sleep .
it be very hot and quiet .
Do n't you remember , Una ? '
Una shake her head and say nothing . '
I see , ' say her father .
` Late -- late in the evening Kilmeny come home , For Kilmeny have be she could not tell where , And Kilmeny have see what she could not declare .
But why be you chew leaf at your time of life , daughter ?
For fun ? '
` No .
It be for something , but I ca n't azactly remember , ' say Una .
And neither of them could till -- A TREE SONG Of all the tree that grow so fair , Old England to adorn , Greater be none beneath the Sun , Than Oak , and Ash , and Thorn .
Sing Oak , and Ash , and Thorn , good Sirs -LRB- All of a Midsummer morn -RRB- !
Surely we sing no little thing , In Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Oak of the Clay live many a day , Or ever neas begin ; Ash of the Loam be a lady at home , When Brut be an outlaw man ; Thorn of the Down saw New Troy Town -LRB- From which be London born -RRB- ; Witness hereby the ancientry Of Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Yew that be old in churchyard mould , He breedeth a mighty bow ; Alder for shoe do wise men choose , And beech for cup also .
But when ye have kill , and your bowl be spill , And your shoe be clean outworn , Back ye must speed for all that ye need , To Oak and Ash and Thorn !
Ellum she hateth mankind , and waiteth Till every gust be lay , To drop a limb on the head of him That anyway trust her shade : But whether a lad be sober or sad , Or mellow with ale from the horn , He will take no wrong when he lieth along ` Neath Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Oh , do not tell the Priest our plight , Or he would call it a sin ; But -- we have be out in the wood all night , A-conjuring Summer in !
And we bring you news by word of mouth -- Good news for cattle and corn -- Now be the Sun come up from the South , With Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Sing Oak , and Ash , and Thorn , good Sirs -LRB- All of a Midsummer morn -RRB- !
England shall bide till Judgement Tide , By Oak and Ash and Thorn !
YOUNG MEN AT THE MANOR They be fish , a few day later , in the bed of the brook that for century have cut deep into the soft valley soil .
The tree close overhead make long tunnel through which the sunshine work in blob and patch .
Down in the tunnel be bar of sand and gravel , old root and trunk cover with moss or paint red by the irony water ; foxgloves grow lean and pale towards the light ; clump of fern and thirsty shy flower who could not live away from moisture and shade .
In the pool you could see the wave throw up by the trout a they charge hither and yon , and the pool be join to each other -- except in flood time , when all be one brown rush -- by sheet of thin broken water that pour themselves chuckle round the darkness of the next bend .
This be one of the child 's most secret hunting-grounds , and their particular friend , old Hobden the hedger , have show them how to use it .
Except for the click of a rod hit a low willow , or a switch and tussle among the young ash-leaves a a line hung up for the minute , nobody in the hot pasture could have guess what game be go on among the trout below the bank .
` We 've get half-a-dozen , ' say Dan , after a warm , wet hour . '
I vote we go up to Stone Bay and try Long Pool . '
Una nod -- most of her talk be by nod -- and they creep from the gloom of the tunnel towards the tiny weir that turn the brook into the mill-stream .
Here the bank be low and bare , and the glare of the afternoon sun on the Long Pool below the weir make your eye ache .
When they be in the open they nearly fell down with astonishment .
A huge grey horse , whose tail-hairs crinkle the glassy water , be drink in the pool , and the ripple about his muzzle flash like melt gold .
On his back sit an old , white-haired man dress in a loose glimmery gown of chain-mail .
He be bare-headed , and a nut-shaped iron helmet hung at his saddle-bow .
His rein be of red leather five or six inch deep , scallop at the edge , and his high pad saddle with it red girth be hold fore and aft by a red leather breastband and crupper .
` Look ! '
say Una , a though Dan be not star his very eyes out .
` It 's like the picture in your room -- `` Sir Isumbras at the Ford '' . '
The rider turn towards them , and his thin , long face be just a sweet and gentle a that of the knight who carry the child in that picture .
` They should be here now , Sir Richard , ' say Puck 's deep voice among the willow-herb .
` They be here , ' the knight say , and he smile at Dan with the string of trout in his hand .
` There seem no great change in boy since mine fish this water . '
` If your horse have drink , we shall be more at ease in the Ring , ' say Puck ; and he nod to the child a though he have never magicked away their memory a week before .
The great horse turn and hoist himself into the pasture with a kick and a scramble that tear the clod down rattle .
` Your pardon ! '
say Sir Richard to Dan .
` When these land be mine , I never love that mount men should cross the brook except by the paved ford .
But my Swallow here be thirsty , and I wish to meet you . '
` We 're very glad you 've come , sir , ' say Dan .
` It do n't matter in the least about the bank . '
He trot across the pasture on the sword side of the mighty horse , and it be a mighty iron-handled sword that swung from Sir Richard 's belt .
Una walk behind with Puck .
She remember everything now .
` I 'm sorry about the Leaves , ' he say , ` but it would never have do if you have go home and tell , would it ? ' '
I s ` pose not , ' Una answer .
` But you say that all the fair -- People of the Hills have leave England . '
` So they have ; but I tell you that you should come and go and look and know , do n't I ?
The knight be n't a fairy .
He 's Sir Richard Dalyngridge , a very old friend of mine .
He come over with William the Conqueror , and he want to see you particularly . '
` What for ? '
say Una .
` On account of your great wisdom and learning , ' Puck reply , without a twinkle .
` Us ? '
say Una .
` Why , I do n't know my Nine Times -- not to say it dodge , and Dan make the most awful mess of fraction .
He ca n't mean u ! '
` Una ! '
Dan call back .
` Sir Richard say he be go to tell what happen to Weland 's sword .
He 's get it .
Is n't it splendid ? '
` Nay -- nay , ' say Sir Richard , dismount a they reach the Ring , in the bend of the mill-stream bank .
` It be you that must tell me , for I hear the young child in our England today be as wise a our wise clerk . '
He slip the bit out of Swallow 's mouth , drop the ruby-red rein over his head , and the wise horse move off to graze .
Sir Richard -LRB- they notice he limp a little -RRB- unslung his great sword .
` That 's it , ' Dan whisper to Una .
` This be the sword that Brother Hugh have from Wayland-Smith , ' Sir Richard say .
` Once he give it me , but I would not take it ; but at the last it become mine after such a fight a never christen man fought .
See ! '
He half draw it from it sheath and turn it before them .
On either side just below the handle , where the Runic letter shiver a though they be alive , be two deep gouge in the dull , deadly steel .
` Now , what Thing make those ? '
say he . '
I know not , but you , perhaps , can say . '
` Tell them all the tale , Sir Richard , ' say Puck .
` It concern their land somewhat . '
` Yes , from the very beginning , ' Una plead , for the knight 's good face and the smile on it more than ever remind her of ` Sir Isumbras at the Ford ' .
They settle down to listen , Sir Richard bare-headed to the sunshine , dandle the sword in both hand , while the grey horse crop outside the Ring , and the helmet on the saddle-bow clinged softly each time he jerk his head .
` From the beginning , then , ' Sir Richard say , ` since it concern your land , I will tell the tale .
When our Duke come out of Normandy to take his England , great knight -LRB- have ye hear ? -RRB-
come and strive hard to serve the Duke , because he promise them land here , and small knight follow the great one .
My folk in Normandy be poor ; but a great knight , Engerrard of the Eagle -- Engenulf De Aquila -- who be kin to my father , follow the Earl of Mortain , who follow William the Duke , and I follow De Aquila .
Yes , with thirty man-at-arms out of my father 's house and a new sword , I set out to conquer England three day after I be make knight .
I do not then know that England would conquer me .
We go up to Santlache with the rest -- a very great host of u . '
` Does that mean the Battle of Hastings -- Ten Sixty-Six ? '
Una whisper , and Puck nod , so a not to interrupt .
` At Santlache , over the hill yonder ' -- he point south-eastward towards Fairlight -- ` we find Harold 's men .
We fight .
At the day 's end they run .
My men go with De Aquila 's to chase and plunder , and in that chase Engerrard of the Eagle be slay , and his son Gilbert take his banner and his men forward .
This I do not know till after , for Swallow here be cut in the flank , so I stay to wash the wound at a brook by a thorn .
There a single Saxon cry out to me in French , and we fight together .
I should have know his voice , but we fight together .
For a long time neither have any advantage , till by pure ill-fortune his foot slip and his sword fly from his hand .
Now I have but newly be make knight , and wish , above all , to be courteous and fameworthy , so I forbear to strike and bid him get his sword again .
`` A plague on my sword , '' say he .
`` It have lose me my first fight .
You have spar my life .
Take my sword . ''
He hold it out to me , but a I stretch my hand the sword groan like a stricken man , and I leap back cry , `` Sorcery ! '' '
-LSB- The child look at the sword a though it might speak again . -RSB-
` Suddenly a clump of Saxons run out upon me and , see a Norman alone , would have kill me , but my Saxon cry out that I be his prisoner , and beat them off .
Thus , see you , he save my life .
He put me on my horse and lead me through the wood ten long mile to this valley . '
` To here , d'you mean ? '
say Una .
` To this very valley .
We come in by the Lower Ford under the King 's Hill yonder ' -- he point eastward where the valley widen .
` And be that Saxon Hugh the novice ? '
Dan ask .
` Yes , and more than that .
He have be for three year at the monastery at Bec by Rouen , where ' -- Sir Richard chuckle -- ` the Abbot Herluin would not suffer me to remain . '
` Why would n't he ? '
say Dan .
` Because I ride my horse into the refectory , when the scholar be at meat , to show the Saxon boys we Normans be not afraid of an Abbot .
It be that very Saxon Hugh tempt me to do it , and we have not meet since that day .
I think I know his voice even inside my helmet , and , for all that our Lords fight , we each rejoice we have not slay the other .
He walk by my side , and he tell me how a Heathen God , a he believe , have give him his sword , but he say he have never hear it sing before .
I remember I warn him to beware of sorcery and quick enchantment . '
Sir Richard smile to himself . '
I be very young -- very young !
` When we come to his house here we have almost forget that we have be at blow .
It be near midnight , and the Great Hall be full of men and woman wait news .
There I first saw his sister , the Lady lueva , of whom he have speak to u in France .
She cry out fiercely at me , and would have have me hang in that hour , but her brother say that I have spar his life -- he say not how he save mine from the Saxons -- and that our Duke have win the day ; and even while they wrangle over my poor body , of a sudden he fell down in a swoon from his wound . '
`` This be thy fault , '' say the Lady lueva to me , and she kneel above him and call for wine and cloth . '
`` If I have know , '' I answer , `` he should have ridden and I walk .
But he set me on my horse ; he make no complaint ; he walk beside me and speak merrily throughout .
I pray I have do him no harm . '' '
`` Thou hast need to pray , '' she say , catch up her underlip .
`` If he die , thou shalt hang . ''
` They bore off Hugh to his chamber ; but three tall men of the house bound me and set me under the beam of the Great Hall with a rope round my neck .
The end of the rope they fling over the beam , and they sit them down by the fire to wait word whether Hugh live or die .
They crack nut with their knife-hilts the while . '
` And how do you feel ? '
say Dan .
` Very weary ; but I do heartily pray for my schoolmate Hugh his health .
About noon I hear horse in the valley , and the three men loose my rope and flee out , and De Aquila 's men ride up .
Gilbert de Aquila come with them , for it be his boast that , like his father , he forget no man that serve him .
He be little , like his father , but terrible , with a nose like an eagle 's nose and yellow eye like an eagle .
He ride tall warhorse -- roan , which he breed himself -- and he could never abide to be help into the saddle .
He saw the rope hang from the beam and laugh , and his men laugh , for I be too stiff to rise . '
`` This be poor entertainment for a Norman knight , '' he say , `` but , such a it be , let u be grateful .
Show me , boy , to whom thou owest most , and we will pay them out of hand . '' '
` What do he mean ?
To kill 'em ? '
say Dan .
` Assuredly .
But I look at the Lady lueva where she stand among her maid , and her brother beside her .
De Aquila 's men have drive them all into the Great Hall . '
` Was she pretty ? '
say Una .
` In all my long life I have never see woman fit to strew rush before my Lady lueva , ' the knight reply , quite simply and quietly .
` As I look at her I think I might save her and her house by a jest . '
`` Seeing that I come somewhat hastily and without warning , '' say I to De Aquila , `` I have no fault to find with the courtesy that these Saxons have show me . ''
But my voice shook .
It be -- it be not good to jest with that little man .
` All be silent awhile , till De Aquila laugh .
`` Look , men -- a miracle , '' say he .
`` The fight be scarce sped , my father be not yet bury , and here we find our young knight already set down in his Manor , while his Saxons -- ye can see it in their fat face -- have pay him homage and service !
By the Saints , '' he say , rub his nose , `` I never think England would be so easy won !
Surely I can do no less than give the lad what he have take .
This Manor shall be thine , boy , '' he say , `` till I come again , or till thou art slain .
Now , mount , men , and ride .
We follow our Duke into Kent to make him King of England . ''
` He draw me with him to the door while they bring his horse -- a lean roan , taller than my Swallow here , but not so well girth . '
`` Hark to me , '' he say , fret with his great war-gloves .
`` I have give thee this Manor , which be a Saxon hornet ' nest , and I think thou wilt be slay in a month -- a my father be slay .
Yet if thou canst keep the roof on the hall , the thatch on the barn , and the plough in the furrow till I come back , thou shalt hold the Manor from me ; for the Duke have promise our Earl Mortain all the land by Pevensey , and Mortain will give me of them what he would have give my father .
God know if thou or I shall live till England be win ; but remember , boy , that here and now fight be foolishness and '' -- he reach for the rein -- `` craft and cunning be all . '' '
`` Alas , I have no cunning , '' say I. ' `` Not yet , '' say he , hop abroad , foot in stirrup , and poke his horse in the belly with his toe .
`` Not yet , but I think thou hast a good teacher .
Farewell !
Hold the Manor and live .
Lose the Manor and hang , '' he say , and spur out , his shield-straps squeaking behind him .
` So , child , here be I , little more than a boy , and Santlache fight not two day old , leave alone with my thirty man-at-arms , in a land I know not , among a people whose tongue I could not speak , to hold down the land which I have take from them . '
` And that be here at home ? '
say Una .
` Yes , here .
See !
From the Upper Ford , Weland 's Ford , to the Lower Ford , by the Belle Alle , west and east it run half a league .
From the Beacon of Brunanburgh behind u here , south and north it run a full league -- and all the wood be full of broken men from Santlache , Saxon thieve , Norman plunderer , robber , and deer-stealers .
A hornet ' nest indeed !
` When De Aquila have go , Hugh would have thank me for save their life ; but the Lady lueva say that I have do it only for the sake of receive the Manor . '
`` How could I know that De Aquila would give it me ? ''
I say .
`` If I have tell him I have spend my night in your halter he would have burn the place twice over by now . '' '
`` If any man have put my neck in a rope , '' she say , `` I would have see his house burn thrice over before I would have make term . '' '
`` But it be a woman , '' I say ; and I laugh , and she weep and say that I mock her in her captivity . '
`` Lady , '' say I , `` there be no captive in this valley except one , and he be not a Saxon . ''
` At this she cry that I be a Norman thief , who come with false , sweet word , have intend from the first to turn her out in the field to beg her bread .
Into the field !
She have never see the face of war ! '
I be angry , and answer , `` This much at least I can disprove , for I swear '' -- and on my sword-hilt I swear it in that place -- `` I swear I will never set foot in the Great Hall till the Lady lueva herself shall summon me there . ''
` She go away , say nothing , and I walk out , and Hugh limp after me , whistle dolorously -LRB- that be a custom of the English -RRB- , and we come upon the three Saxons that have bound me .
They be now bind by my man-at-arms , and behind them stand some fifty stark and sullen churl of the House and the Manor , wait to see what should fall .
We hear De Aquila 's trumpet blow thin through the wood Kentward . '
`` Shall we hang these ? ''
say my men . '
`` Then my churl will fight , '' say Hugh , beneath his breath ; but I bid him ask the three what mercy they hop for . '
`` None , '' say they all .
`` She bid u hang thee if our master die .
And we would have hang thee .
There be no more to it . ''
` As I stand doubt , a woman run down from the oak wood above the King 's Hill yonder , and cry out that some Normans be drive off the swine there . '
`` Norman or Saxon , '' say I , `` we must beat them back , or they will rob u every day .
Out at them with any arm ye have ! ''
So I loose those three carles and we run together , my man-at-arms and the Saxons with bill and ax which they have hide in the thatch of their hut , and Hugh lead them .
Half-way up the King 's Hill we find a false fellow from Picardy -- a sutler that sell wine in the Duke 's camp -- with a dead knight 's shield on his arm , a stolen horse under him , and some ten or twelve wastrel at his tail , all cutting and slash at the pig .
We beat them off , and save our pork .
One hundred and seventy pig we save in that great battle . '
Sir Richard laugh .
` That , then , be our first work together , and I bid Hugh tell his folk that so would I deal with any man , knight or churl , Norman or Saxon , who steal as much a one egg from our valley .
Said he to me , rid home : `` Thou hast go far to conquer England this evening . ''
I answer : `` England must be thine and mine , then .
Help me , Hugh , to deal aright with these people .
Make them to know that if they slay me De Aquila will surely send to slay them , and he will put a bad man in my place . ''
`` That may well be true , '' say he , and give me his hand .
`` Better the devil we know than the devil we know not , till we can pack you Normans home . ''
And so , too , say his Saxons ; and they laugh a we drive the pig downhill .
But I think some of them , even then , begin not to hate me . ' '
I like Brother Hugh , ' say Una , softly .
` Beyond question he be the most perfect , courteous , valiant , tender , and wise knight that ever draw breath , ' say Sir Richard , caress the sword .
` He hang up his sword -- this sword -- on the wall of the Great Hall , because he say it be fairly mine , and never he take it down till De Aquila return , a I shall presently show .
For three month his men and mine guard the valley , till all robber and nightwalker learn there be nothing to get from u save hard tack and a hanging .
Side by side we fight against all who come -- thrice a week sometimes we fight -- against thief and landless knight look for good manor .
Then we be in some peace , and I make shift by Hugh 's help to govern the valley -- for all this valley of yours be my Manor -- a a knight should .
I keep the roof on the hall and the thatch on the barn , but ... the English be a bold people .
His Saxons would laugh and jest with Hugh , and Hugh with them , and -- this be marvellous to me -- if even the mean of them say that such and such a thing be the Custom of the Manor , then straightway would Hugh and such old men of the Manor a might be near forsake everything else to debate the matter -- I have see them stop the Mill with the corn half ground -- and if the custom or usage be prove to be a it be say , why , that be the end of it , even though it be flat against Hugh , his wish and command .
Wonderful ! '
` Aye , ' say Puck , break in for the first time .
` The Custom of Old England be here before your Norman knight come , and it outlast them , though they fight against it cruel . '
` Not I , ' say Sir Richard . '
I let the Saxons go their stubborn way , but when my own man-at-arms , Normans not six month in England , stand up and tell me what be the custom of the country , then I be angry .
Ah , good day !
Ah , wonderful people !
And I love them all . '
The knight lift his arm a though he would hug the whole dear valley , and Swallow , hear the chink of his chain-mail , look up and whinny softly .
` At last , ' he go on , ` after a year of striving and contriving and some little driving , De Aquila come to the valley , alone and without warn .
I saw him first at the Lower Ford , with a swineherd 's brat on his saddle-bow . '
`` There be no need for thee to give any account of thy stewardship , '' say he .
`` I have it all from the child here . ''
And he tell me how the young thing have stop his tall horse at the Ford , by wave of a branch , and cry that the way be bar .
`` And if one bold , bare babe be enough to guard the Ford in these day , thou hast do well , '' say he , and puffed and wipe his head .
` He pinch the child 's cheek , and look at our cattle in the flat by the river . '
`` Both fat , '' say he , rub his nose .
`` This be craft and cunning such a I love .
What do I tell thee when I ride away , boy ? '' '
`` Hold the Manor or hang , '' say I. I have never forget it . '
`` True .
And thou hast held . ''
He clamber from his saddle and with his sword 's point cut out a turf from the bank and give it me where I kneel . '
Dan look at Una , and Una look at Dan .
` That 's seizin , ' say Puck , in a whisper . '
`` Now thou art lawfully seize of the Manor , Sir Richard , '' say he -- 't be the first time he ever call me that -- `` thou and thy heir for ever .
This must serve till the King 's clerk write out thy title on a parchment .
England be all ours -- if we can hold it . '' '
`` What service shall I pay ? ''
I ask , and I remember I be proud beyond word . '
`` Knight 's fee , boy , knight 's fee ! ''
say he , hop round his horse on one foot .
-LRB- Have I say he be little , and could not endure to be help to his saddle ? -RRB-
`` Six mount men or twelve archer thou shalt send me whenever I call for them , and -- where get you that corn ? ''
say he , for it be near harvest , and our corn stand well .
`` I have never see such bright straw .
Send me three bag of the same seed yearly , and furthermore , in memory of our last meeting -- with the rope round thy neck -- entertain me and my men for two day of each year in the Great Hall of thy Manor . '' '
`` Alas ! ''
say I , `` then my Manor be already forfeit .
I be under vow not to enter the Great Hall . ''
And I tell him what I have swear to the Lady lueva . '
` And have n't you ever be into the house since ? '
say Una .
` Never , ' Sir Richard answer , smile . '
I have make me a little hut of wood up the hill , and there I do justice and slept ... De Aquila wheel aside , and his shield shook on his back .
`` No matter , boy , '' say he .
`` I will remit the homage for a year . '' '
` He mean Sir Richard need n't give him dinner there the first year , ' Puck explain .
` De Aquila stay with me in the hut , and Hugh , who could read and write and cast account , show him the Roll of the Manor , in which be write all the name of our field and men , and he ask a thousand question touch the land , the timber , the grazing , the mill , and the fish-ponds , and the worth of every man in the valley .
But never he name the Lady lueva 's name , nor go he near the Great Hall .
By night he drink with u in the hut .
Yes , he sit on the straw like an eagle ruffle in her feather , his yellow eye roll above the cup , and he pounce in his talk like an eagle , swoop from one thing to another , but always bind fast .
Yes ; he would lie still awhile , and then rustle in the straw , and speak sometimes a though he be King William himself , and anon he would speak in parable and tale , and if at once we saw not his meaning he would yerk u in the rib with his scabbarded sword . '
`` Look you , boy , '' say he , `` I be bear out of my due time .
Five hundred year ago I would have make all England such an England a neither Dane , Saxon , nor Norman should have conquer .
Five hundred year hence I should have be such a counsellor to Kings a the world hath never dream of .
'T be all here , '' say he , tap his big head , `` but it hath no play in this black age .
Now Hugh here be a good man than thou art , Richard . ''
He have make his voice harsh and croaking , like a raven 's . '
`` Truth , '' say I . `` But for Hugh , his help and patience and long-suffering , I could never have keep the Manor . '' '
`` Nor thy life either , '' say De Aquila .
`` Hugh have save thee not once , but a hundred time .
Be still , Hugh ! ''
he say .
`` Dost thou know , Richard , why Hugh slept , and why he still sleep , among thy Norman man-at-arms ? '' '
`` To be near me , '' say I , for I think this be truth . '
`` Fool ! ''
say De Aquila .
`` It be because his Saxons have beg him to rise against thee , and to sweep every Norman out of the valley .
No matter how I know .
It be truth .
Therefore Hugh hath make himself an hostage for thy life , well know that if any harm befell thee from his Saxons thy Normans would slay him without remedy .
And this his Saxons know .
Is it true , Hugh ? '' '
`` In some sort , '' say Hugh shamefacedly ; `` at least , it be true half a year ago .
My Saxons would not harm Richard now .
I think they know him -- but I judge it best to make sure . ''
` Look , child , what that man have do -- and I have never guess it !
Night after night have he lie down among my man-at-arms , know that if one Saxon have lift knife against me , his life would have answer for mine . '
`` Yes , '' say De Aquila .
`` And he be a swordless man . ''
He point to Hugh 's belt , for Hugh have put away his sword -- do I tell you ?
-- the day after it fly from his hand at Santlache .
He carry only the short knife and the long-bow .
`` Swordless and landless art thou , Hugh ; and they call thee kin to Earl Godwin . ''
-LRB- Hugh be indeed of Godwin 's blood . -RRB-
`` The Manor that be thine be give to this boy and to his child for ever .
Sit up and beg , for he can turn thee out like a dog , Hugh . ''
` Hugh say nothing , but I hear his teeth grind , and I bid De Aquila , my own overlord , hold his peace , or I would stuff his word down his throat .
Then De Aquila laugh till the tear run down his face . '
`` I warn the King , '' say he , `` what would come of give England to u Norman thieve .
Here art thou , Richard , less than two day confirm in thy Manor , and already thou hast risen against thy overlord .
What shall we do to him , Sir Hugh ? '' '
`` I be a swordless man , '' say Hugh .
`` Do not jest with me , '' and he lay his head on his knee and groan . '
`` The great fool thou , '' say De Aquila , and all his voice change ; `` for I have give thee the Manor of Dallington up the hill this half-hour since , '' and he yerked at Hugh with his scabbard across the straw . '
`` To me ? ''
say Hugh .
`` I be a Saxon , and , except that I love Richard here , I have not swear fealty to any Norman . '' '
`` In God 's good time , which because of my sin I shall not live to see , there will be neither Saxon nor Norman in England , '' say De Aquila .
`` If I know men , thou art more faithful unsworn than a score of Normans I could name .
Take Dallington , and join Sir Richard to fight me tomorrow , if it please thee ! '' '
`` Nay , '' say Hugh .
`` I be no child .
Where I take a gift , there I render service '' ; and he put his hand between De Aquila 's , and swore to be faithful , and , a I remember , I kiss him , and De Aquila kiss u both .
` We sit afterwards outside the hut while the sun rise , and De Aquila mark our churl go to their work in the field , and talk of holy thing , and how we should govern our Manors in time to come , and of hunt and of horse-breeding , and of the King 's wisdom and unwisdom ; for he speak to u a though we be in all sort now his brother .
Anon a churl steal up to me -- he be one of the three I have not hang a year ago -- and he bellow -- which be the Saxon for whisper -- that the Lady lueva would speak to me at the Great House .
She walk abroad daily in the Manor , and it be her custom to send me word whither she go , that I might set an archer or two behind and in front to guard her .
Very often I myself lay up in the wood and watch on her also . '
I go swiftly , and a I pass the great door it open from within , and there stand my Lady lueva , and she say to me : `` Sir Richard , will it please you enter your Great Hall ? ''
Then she weep , but we be alone . '
The knight be silent for a long time , his face turn across the valley , smile .
` Oh , well do ! '
say Una , and clap her hand very softly .
` She be sorry , and she say so . '
` Aye , she be sorry , and she say so , ' say Sir Richard , come back with a little start .
` Very soon -- but he say it be two full hour later -- De Aquila rode to the door , with his shield new scour -LRB- Hugh have cleanse it -RRB- , and demand entertainment , and call me a false knight , that would starve his overlord to death .
Then Hugh cry out that no man should work in the valley that day , and our Saxons blow horn , and set about feasting and drinking , and run of race , and dance and singing ; and De Aquila climb upon a horse-block and spoke to them in what he swear be good Saxon , but no man understand it .
At night we feast in the Great Hall , and when the harper and the singer be go we four sit late at the high table .
As I remember , it be a warm night with a full moon , and De Aquila bid Hugh take down his sword from the wall again , for the honour of the Manor of Dallington , and Hugh take it gladly enough .
Dust lay on the hilt , for I saw him blow it off .
` She and I sit talk a little apart , and at first we think the harper have come back , for the Great Hall be fill with a rush noise of music .
De Aquila leap up ; but there be only the moonlight fretty on the floor . '
`` Hearken ! ''
say Hugh .
`` It be my sword , '' and a he belt it on the music cease . '
`` Over Gods , forbid that I should ever belt blade like that , '' say De Aquila .
`` What do it foretell ? '' '
`` The Gods that make it may know .
Last time it speak be at Hastings , when I lose all my land .
Belike it sing now that I have new land and be a man again , '' say Hugh .
` He loose the blade a little and drive it back happily into the sheath , and the sword answer him low and crooningly , as -- a a woman would speak to a man , her head on his shoulder .
` Now that be the second time in all my life I hear this Sword sing . '
... ` Look ! '
say Una .
` There 's Mother come down the Long Slip .
What will she say to Sir Richard ?
She ca n't help see him . '
` And Puck ca n't magic u this time , ' say Dan .
` Are you sure ? '
say Puck ; and he lean forward and whisper to Sir Richard , who , smile , bow his head .
` But what befall the sword and my brother Hugh I will tell on another time , ' say he , rise .
` Oh , Swallow ! '
The great horse canter up from the far end of the meadow , close to Mother .
They hear Mother say : ` Children , Gleason 's old horse have break into the meadow again .
Where do he get through ? '
` Just below Stone Bay , ' say Dan .
` He tear down simple flobs of the bank !
We notice it just now .
And we 've catch no end of fish .
We 've be at it all the afternoon . '
And they honestly believe that they have .
They never notice the Oak , Ash and Thorn leave that Puck have slyly throw into their lap .
SIR RICHARD 'S SONG I follow my Duke ere I be a lover , To take from England fief and fee ; But now this game be the other way over -- But now England hath take me !
I have my horse , my shield and banner , And a boy 's heart , so whole and free ; But now I sing in another manner -- But now England hath take me !
As for my Father in his tower , Asking news of my ship at sea ; He will remember his own hour -- Tell him England hath take me !
As for my Mother in her bower , That rule my Father so cunningly ; She will remember a maiden 's power -- Tell her England hath take me !
As for my Brother in Rouen city , A nimble and naughty page be he ; But he will come to suffer and pity -- Tell him England hath take me !
As for my little Sister wait In the pleasant orchard of Normandie ; Tell her youth be the time of mating -- Tell her England hath take me !
As for my Comrades in camp and highway , That lift their eyebrow scornfully ; Tell them their way be not my way -- Tell them England hath take me !
Kings and Princes and Barons famed , Knights and Captains in your degree ; Hear me a little before I be blame -- Seeing England hath take me !
Howso great man 's strength be reckon , There be two thing he can not flee ; Love be the first , and Death be the second -- And Love , in England , hath take me !
THE KNIGHTS OF THE JOYOUS VENTURE HARP SONG OF THE DANE WOMEN What be a woman that you forsake her , And the hearth-fire and the home-acre , To go with the old grey Widow-maker ?
She have no house to lay a guest in -- But one chill bed for all to rest in , That the pale sun and the stray berg nest in .
She have no strong white arm to fold you , But the ten-times-fingering weed to hold you Bound on the rock where the tide have roll you .
Yet , when the sign of summer thicken , And the ice break , and the birch-buds quicken , Yearly you turn from our side , and sicken -- Sicken again for the shout and the slaughter , -- You steal away to the lapping water , And look at your ship in her winter quarter .
You forget our mirth , and talk at the table , The kine in the shed and the horse in the stable -- To pitch her side and go over her cable !
Then you drive out where the storm-clouds swallow : And the sound of your oar-blades fall hollow Is all we have leave through the month to follow .
Ah , what be a Woman that you forsake her , And the hearth-fire and the home-acre , To go with the old grey Widow-maker ?
It be too hot to run about in the open , so Dan ask their friend , old Hobden , to take their own dinghy from the pond and put her on the brook at the bottom of the garden .
Her painted name be the Daisy , but for explore expedition she be the Golden Hind or the Long Serpent , or some such suitable name .
Dan hike and howked with a boat-hook -LRB- the brook be too narrow for scull -RRB- , and Una punt with a piece of hop-pole .
When they come to a very shallow place -LRB- the Golden Hind draw quite three inch of water -RRB- they disembark and scuffle her over the gravel by her tow-rope , and when they reach the overgrown bank beyond the garden they pull themselves up stream by the low branch .
That day they intend to discover the North Cape like ` Othere , the old sea-captain ' , in the book of verse which Una have bring with her ; but on account of the heat they change it to a voyage up the Amazon and the source of the Nile .
Even on the shaded water the air be hot and heavy with drowsy scent , while outside , through break in the tree , the sunshine burn the pasture like fire .
The kingfisher be asleep on his watching-branch , and the blackbird scarcely take the trouble to dive into the next bush .
Dragonflies wheel and clash be the only thing at work , except the moorhen and a big Red Admiral , who flap down out of the sunshine for a drink .
When they reach Otter Pool the Golden Hind ground comfortably on a shallow , and they lay beneath a roof of close green , watch the water trickle over the flood-gates down the mossy brick chute from the mill-stream to the brook .
A big trout -- the child know him well -- roll head and shoulder at some fly that sail round the bend , while , once in just so often , the brook rise a fraction of an inch against all the wet pebble , and they watch the slow draw and shiver of a breath of air through the tree-tops .
Then the little voice of the slipping water begin again .
` It 's like the shadow talk , be n't it ? '
say Una .
She have give up try to read .
Dan lay over the bow , trail his hand in the current .
They hear foot on the gravel-bar that run half across the pool and saw Sir Richard Dalyngridge standing over them .
` Was yours a dangerous voyage ? '
he ask , smile .
` She bump a lot , sir , ' say Dan .
` There 's hardly any water this summer . '
` Ah , the brook be deep and wider when my child play at Danish pirate .
Are you pirate-folk ? '
` Oh no .
We give up be pirate year ago , ' explain Una .
` We 're nearly always explorer now .
Sailing round the world , you know . '
` Round ? '
say Sir Richard .
He sit him in the comfortable crotch of an old ash-root on the bank .
` How can it be round ? '
` Was n't it in your book ? '
Dan suggest .
He have be do geography at his last lesson . '
I can neither write nor read , ' he reply .
` Canst thou read , child ? '
` Yes , ' say Dan , ` bar the very long word . '
` Wonderful !
Read to me , that I may hear for myself . '
Dan flush , but open the book and begin -- gabble a little -- at ` The Discoverer of the North Cape . '
` Othere , the old sea-captain , Who dwell in Helgoland , To King Alfred , the lover of truth , Brought a snow-white walrus tooth , That he hold in his brown right hand . '
` But -- but -- this I know !
This be an old song !
This I have hear sung !
This be a miracle , ' Sir Richard interrupt .
` Nay , do not stop ! '
He lean forward , and the shadow of the leaf slip and slid upon his chain-mail . '
`` I plough the land with horse , But my heart be ill at ease , For the old sea-faring men Came to me now and then With their Sagas of the Seas . '' '
His hand fell on the hilt of the great sword .
` This be truth , ' he cry , ` for so do it happen to me , ' and he beat time delightedly to the tramp of verse after verse . '
`` And now the land , '' say Othere , `` Bent southward suddenly , And I follow the curving shore , And ever southward bore Into a nameless sea . '' ' '
A nameless sea ! '
he repeat .
` So do I -- so do Hugh and I. ' ` Where do you go ?
Tell u , ' say Una .
` Wait .
Let me hear all first . '
So Dan read to the poem 's very end .
` Good , ' say the knight .
` That be Othere 's tale -- even a I have hear the men in the Dane ship sing it .
Not in those same valiant word , but something like to them . '
` Have you ever explore North ? '
Dan shut the book .
` Nay .
My venture be South .
Farther South than any man have fare , Hugh and I go down with Witta and his heathen . '
He jerk the tall sword forward , and lean on it with both hand ; but his eye look long past them . '
I think you always live here , ' say Una , timidly .
` Yes ; while my Lady lueva live .
But she die .
She die .
Then , my eldest son be a man , I ask De Aquila 's leave that he should hold the Manor while I go on some journey or pilgrimage -- to forget .
De Aquila , whom the Second William have make Warden of Pevensey in Earl Mortain 's place , be very old then , but still he ride his tall , roan horse , and in the saddle he look like a little white falcon .
When Hugh , at Dallington , over yonder , hear what I do , he send for my second son , whom be unmarried he have ever look upon a his own child , and , by De Aquila 's leave , give him the Manor of Dallington to hold till he should return .
Then Hugh come with me . '
` When do this happen ? '
say Dan .
` That I can answer to the very day , for a we ride with De Aquila by Pevensey -- have I say that he be Lord of Pevensey and of the Honour of the Eagle ?
-- to the Bordeaux ship that fetch him his wine yearly out of France , a Marsh man run to u cry that he have see a great black goat which bore on his back the body of the King , and that the goat have speak to him .
On that same day Red William our King , the Conqueror 's son , die of a secret arrow while he hunt in a forest .
`` This be a cross matter , '' say De Aquila , `` to meet on the threshold of a journey .
If Red William be dead I may have to fight for my land .
Wait a little . ''
` My Lady be dead , I care nothing for sign and omen , nor Hugh either .
We take that wine-ship to go to Bordeaux ; but the wind fail while we be yet in sight of Pevensey , a thick mist hid u , and we drift with the tide along the cliff to the west .
Our company be , for the most part , merchant return to France , and we be laden with wool and there be three couple of tall hunting-dogs chain to the rail .
Their master be a knight of Artois .
His name I never learn , but his shield bore gold piece on a red ground , and he limp , much a I do , from a wound which he have get in his youth at Mantes siege .
He serve the Duke of Burgundy against the Moors in Spain , and be return to that war with his dog .
He sing u strange Moorish song that first night , and half persuade u to go with him .
I be on pilgrimage to forget -- which be what no pilgrimage bring .
I think I would have go , but ... ` Look you how the life and fortune of man change !
Towards morning a Dane ship , row silently , strike against u in the mist , and while we roll hither and yon Hugh , lean over the rail , fell outboard .
I leap after him , and we two tumble aboard the Dane , and be catch and bind ere we could rise .
Our own ship be swallow up in the mist .
I judge the Knight of the Gold Pieces muzzle his dog with his cloak , lest they should give tongue and betray the merchant , for I hear their baying suddenly stop .
` We lay bound among the bench till morning , when the Danes drag u to the high deck by the steering-place , and their captain -- Witta , he be call -- turn u over with his foot .
Bracelets of gold from elbow to armpit he wore , and his red hair be long a a woman 's , and come down in plaited lock on his shoulder .
He be stout , with bow leg and long arm .
He spoil u of all we have , but when he lay hand on Hugh 's sword and saw the rune on the blade hastily he thrust it back .
Yet his covetousness overcame him and he try again and again , and the third time the Sword sang loud and angrily , so that the rower lean on their oar to listen .
Here they all speak together , scream like gull , and a Yellow Man , such a I have never see , come to the high deck and cut our bond .
He be yellow -- not from sickness , but by nature -- yellow a honey , and his eye stand endwise in his head . '
` How do you mean ? '
say Una , her chin on her hand .
` Thus , ' say Sir Richard .
He put a finger to the corner of each eye , and push it up till his eye narrow to slit .
` Why , you look just like a Chinaman ! '
cry Dan .
` Was the man a Chinaman ? ' '
I know not what that may be .
Witta have find him half dead among ice on the shore of Muscovy .
We think he be a devil .
He crawl before u and bring food in a silver dish which these sea-wolves have rob from some rich abbey , and Witta with his own hand give u wine .
He speak a little in French , a little in South Saxon , and much in the Northman 's tongue .
We ask him to set u ashore , promise to pay him good ransom than he would get price if he sell u to the Moors -- a once befell a knight of my acquaintance sail from Flushing . '
`` Not by my father Guthrum 's head , '' say he .
`` The Gods send ye into my ship for a luck-offering . ''
` At this I quake , for I know it be still the Danes ' custom to sacrifice captive to their Gods for fair weather . '
`` A plague on thy four long bone ! ''
say Hugh .
`` What profit canst thou make of poor old pilgrim that can neither work nor fight ? '' '
`` Gods forbid I should fight against thee , poor Pilgrim with the Singing Sword , '' say he .
`` Come with u and be poor no more .
Thy teeth be far apart , which be a sure sign thou wilt travel and grow rich . '' '
`` What if we will not come ? ''
say Hugh . '
`` Swim to England or France , '' say Witta .
`` We be midway between the two .
Unless ye choose to drown yourselves no hair of your head will be harm here aboard .
We think ye bring u luck , and I myself know the rune on that Sword be good . ''
He turn and bid them hoist sail .
` Hereafter all make way for u a we walk about the ship , and the ship be full of wonder . '
` What be she like ? '
say Dan .
` Long , low , and narrow , bear one mast with a red sail , and row by fifteen oar a-side , ' the knight answer .
` At her bow be a deck under which men might lie , and at her stern another shut off by a painted door from the rower ' bench .
Here Hugh and I sleep , with Witta and the Yellow Man , upon tapestry as soft a wool .
I remember ' -- he laugh to himself -- ` when first we enter there a loud voice cry , `` Out sword !
Out sword !
Kill , kill ! ''
Seeing u start Witta laugh , and show u it be but a great-beaked grey bird with a red tail .
He sit her on his shoulder , and she call for bread and wine hoarsely , and pray him to kiss her .
Yet she be no more than a silly bird .
But -- ye know this ? '
He look at their smiling face .
` We be n't laugh at you , ' say Una .
` That must have be a parrot .
It 's just what Pollies do . '
` So we learn later .
But here be another marvel .
The Yellow Man , whose name be Kitai , have with him a brown box .
In the box be a blue bowl with red mark upon the rim , and within the bowl , hang from a fine thread , be a piece of iron no thicker than that grass stem , and a long , maybe , a my spur , but straight .
In this iron , say Witta , abide an Evil Spirit which Kitai , the Yellow Man , have bring by Art Magic out of his own country that lay three year ' journey southward .
The Evil Spirit strive day and night to return to his country , and therefore , look you , the iron needle point continually to the South . '
` South ? '
say Dan suddenly , and put his hand into his pocket .
` With my own eye I saw it .
Every day and all day long , though the ship roll , though the sun and the moon and the star be hid , this blind Spirit in the iron know whither it would go , and strain to the South .
Witta call it the Wise Iron , because it show him his way across the unknowable sea . '
Again Sir Richard look keenly at the child .
` How think ye ?
Was it sorcery ? '
` Was it anything like this ? '
Dan fish out his old brass pocket-compass , that generally live with his knife and key-ring .
` The glass have get crack , but the needle waggle all right , sir . '
The knight draw a long breath of wonder .
` Yes , yes !
The Wise Iron shook and swung in just this fashion .
Now it be still .
Now it point to the South . '
` North , ' say Dan .
` Nay , South !
There be the South , ' say Sir Richard .
Then they both laugh , for naturally when one end of a straight compass-needle point to the North , the other must point to the South .
` T , ' say Sir Richard , click his tongue .
` There can be no sorcery if a child carry it .
Wherefore do it point South -- or North ? '
` Father say that nobody know , ' say Una .
Sir Richard look relieve .
` Then it may still be magic .
It be magic to u .
And so we voyage .
When the wind serve we hoist sail , and lay all up along the windward rail , our shield on our back to break the spray .
When it fail , they row with long oar ; the Yellow Man sat by the Wise Iron , and Witta steer .
At first I fear the great white-flowering wave , but a I saw how wisely Witta lead his ship among them I grow bolder .
Hugh like it well from the first .
My skill be not upon the water ; and rock and whirlpool such a we saw by the West Isles of France , where an oar caught on a rock and broke , be much against my stomach .
We sail South across a stormy sea , where by moonlight , between cloud , we saw a Flanders ship roll clean over and sink .
Again , though Hugh labour with Witta all night , I lay under the deck with the Talking Bird , and care not whether I live or die .
There be a sickness of the sea which for three day be pure death !
When we next saw land Witta say it be Spain , and we stand out to sea .
That coast be full of ship busy in the Duke 's war against the Moors , and we fear to be hang by the Duke 's men or sell into slavery by the Moors .
So we put into a small harbour which Witta know .
At night men come down with loaded mule , and Witta exchange amber out of the North against little wedge of iron and packet of bead in earthen pot .
The pot he put under the deck , and the wedge of iron he lay on the bottom of the ship after he have cast out the stone and shingle which till then have be our ballast .
Wine , too , he buy for lump of sweet-smelling grey amber -- a little morsel no big than a thumbnail purchase a cask of wine .
But I speak like a merchant . '
` No , no !
Tell u what you have to eat , ' cried Dan .
` Meat dry in the sun , and dry fish and ground bean , Witta take in ; and cord frail of a certain sweet , soft fruit , which the Moors use , which be like paste of fig , but with thin , long stone .
Aha !
Dates be the name . '
`` Now , '' say Witta , when the ship be load , `` I counsel you stranger to pray to your Gods , for from here on , our road be No Man 's road . ''
He and his men kill a black goat for sacrifice on the bow ; and the Yellow Man bring out a small , smile image of dull-green stone and burn incense before it .
Hugh and I commend ourselves to God , and Saint Barnabas , and Our Lady of the Assumption , who be specially dear to my Lady .
We be not young , but I think no shame to say whenas we drive out of that secret harbour at sunrise over a still sea , we two rejoice and sing a do the knight of old when they follow our great Duke to England .
Yet be our leader an heathen pirate ; all our proud fleet but one galley perilously overload ; for guidance we lean on a pagan sorcerer ; and our port be beyond the world 's end .
Witta tell u that his father Guthrum have once in his life row along the shore of Africa to a land where naked men sell gold for iron and bead .
There have he buy much gold , and no few elephant ' teeth , and thither by help of the Wise Iron would Witta go .
Witta fear nothing -- except to be poor . '
`` My father tell me , '' say Witta , `` that a great Shoal run three day ' sail out from that land , and south of the shoal lie a Forest which grow in the sea .
South and east of the Forest my father come to a place where the men hide gold in their hair ; but all that country , he say , be full of Devils who live in tree , and tore folk limb from limb .
How think ye ? '' '
`` Gold or no gold , '' say Hugh , finger his sword , `` it be a joyous venture .
Have at these Devils of thine , Witta ! '' '
`` Venture ! ''
say Witta sourly .
`` I be only a poor sea-thief .
I do not set my life adrift on a plank for joy , or the venture .
Once I beach ship again at Stavanger , and feel the wife 's arm round my neck , I 'll seek no more venture .
A ship be heavy care than a wife or cattle . ''
` He leap down among the rower , chide them for their little strength and their great stomach .
Yet Witta be a wolf in fight , and a very fox in cunning .
` We be drive South by a storm , and for three day and three night he take the stern-oar , and threddled the longship through the sea .
When it rise beyond measure he brake a pot of whale 's oil upon the water , which wonderfully smooth it , and in that anoint patch he turn her head to the wind and throw out oar at the end of a rope , to make , he say , an anchor at which we lay roll sorely , but dry .
This craft his father Guthrum have show him .
He know , too , all the Leech-Book of Bald , who be a wise doctor , and he know the Ship-Book of Hlaf the Woman , who rob Egypt .
He know all the care of a ship .
` After the storm we saw a mountain whose top be cover with snow and pierce the cloud .
The grass under this mountain , boil and eat , be a good cure for soreness of the gum and swell ankle .
We lay there eight day , till men in skin threw stone at u .
When the heat increase Witta spread a cloth on bent stick above the rower , for the wind fail between the Island of the Mountain and the shore of Africa , which be east of it .
That shore be sandy , and we row along it within three bowshots .
Here we saw whale , and fish in the shape of shield , but long than our ship .
Some slept , some open their mouth at u , and some dance on the hot water .
The water be hot to the hand , and the sky be hide by hot , grey mist , out of which blow a fine dust that whiten our hair and beard of a morning .
Here , too , be fish that fly in the air like bird .
They would fall on the lap of the rower , and when we go ashore we would roast and eat them . '
The knight pause to see if the child doubt him , but they only nod and say , ` Go on . '
` The yellow land lay on our left , the grey sea on our right .
Knight though I be , I pull my oar amongst the rower .
I catch seaweed and dry it , and stuff it between the pot of bead l they should break .
Knighthood be for the land .
At sea , look you , a man be but a spurless rider on a bridleless horse .
I learn to make strong knot in rope -- yes , and to join two rope end to end , so that even Witta could scarcely see where they have be marry .
But Hugh have tenfold more sea-cunning than I. Witta give him charge of the rower of the left side .
Thorkild of Borkum , a man with a broken nose , that wear a Norman steel cap , have the rower of the right , and each side row and sang against the other .
They saw that no man be idle .
Truly , a Hugh say , and Witta would laugh at him , a ship be all more care than a Manor .
` How ?
Thus .
There be water to fetch from the shore when we could find it , as well a wild fruit and grass , and sand for scrubbing of the deck and bench to keep them sweet .
Also we haul the ship out on low island and empty all her gear , even to the iron wedge , and burn off the weed , that have grow on her , with torch of rush , and smoke below the deck with rush dampen in salt water , a Hlaf the Woman order in her Ship-Book .
Once when we be thus strip , and the ship lay prop on her keel , the bird cry , `` Out sword ! ''
a though she saw an enemy .
Witta vow he would wring her neck . '
` Poor Polly !
Did he ? '
say Una .
` Nay .
She be the ship 's bird .
She could call all the rower by name ... Those be good day -- for a wifeless man -- with Witta and his heathen -- beyond the world 's end .
... After many week we come on the great Shoal which stretch , a Witta 's father have say , far out to sea .
We skirt it till we be giddy with the sight and dizzy with the sound of bar and breaker , and when we reach land again we find a naked black people dwell among wood , who for one wedge of iron load u with fruit and grass and egg .
Witta scratch his head at them in sign he would buy gold .
They have no gold , but they understand the sign -LRB- all the gold-traders hide their gold in their thick hair -RRB- , for they point along the coast .
They beat , too , on their chest with their clenched hand , and that , if we have know it , be an evil sign . '
` What do it mean ? '
say Dan .
` Patience .
Ye shall hear .
We follow the coast eastward sixteen day -LRB- count time by sword-cut on the helm-rail -RRB- till we come to the Forest in the Sea .
Trees grow there out of mud , arch upon lean and high root , and many muddy waterway run all whither into darkness , under the tree .
Here we lose the sun .
We follow the winding channel between the tree , and where we could not row we lay hold of the crusted root and haul ourselves along .
The water be foul , and great glittering fly torment u .
Morning and even a blue mist cover the mud , which breed fever .
Four of our rower sicken , and be bind to their bench , l they should leap overboard and be eat by the monster of the mud .
The Yellow Man lay sick beside the Wise Iron , roll his head and talk in his own tongue .
Only the Bird throve .
She sit on Witta 's shoulder and scream in that noisome , silent darkness .
Yes ; I think it be the silence we most fear . '
He pause to listen to the comfortable home noise of the brook .
` When we have lose count of time among those black gully and swash we hear , a it be , a drum beat far off , and follow it we break into a broad , brown river by a hut in a clearing among field of pumpkin .
We thank God to see the sun again .
The people of the village give the good welcome , and Witta scratch his head at them -LRB- for gold -RRB- , and show them our iron and bead .
They run to the bank -- we be still in the ship -- and point to our sword and bow , for always when near shore we lay arm .
Soon they fetch store of gold in bar and in dust from their hut , and some great blackened elephant ' teeth .
These they pile on the bank , a though to tempt u , and make sign of deal blow in battle , and point up to the tree-tops , and to the forest behind .
Their captain or chief sorcerer then beat on his chest with his fist , and gnash his teeth .
` Said Thorkild of Borkum : `` Do they mean we must fight for all this gear ? ''
and he half drew sword . '
`` Nay , '' say Hugh .
`` I think they ask u to league against some enemy . '' '
`` I like this not , '' say Witta , of a sudden .
`` Back into mid-stream . ''
` So we do , and sit still all , watch the black folk and the gold they pile on the bank .
Again we hear drum beat in the forest , and the people flee to their hut , leave the gold unguarded .
` Then Hugh , at the bow , point without speech , and we saw a great Devil come out of the forest .
He shade his brow with his hand , and moisten his pink tongue between his lip -- thus . ' '
A Devil ! '
say Dan , delightfully horrify .
` Yea .
Taller than a man ; cover with reddish hair .
When he have well regard our ship , he beat on his chest with his fist till it sound like roll drum , and come to the bank swing all his body between his long arm , and gnash his teeth at u .
Hugh loose arrow , and pierce him through the throat .
He fell roar , and three other Devils run out of the forest and haul him into a tall tree out of sight .
Anon they cast down the blood-stained arrow , and lament together among the leaf .
Witta saw the gold on the bank ; he be loath to leave it .
`` Sirs , '' say he -LRB- no man have speak till then -RRB- , `` yonder be what we have come so far and so painfully to find , lay out to our very hand .
Let u row in while these Devils bewail themselves , and at least bear off what we may . ''
` Bold a a wolf , cunning a a fox be Witta !
He set four archer on the foredeck to shoot the Devils if they should leap from the tree , which be close to the bank .
He man ten oar a-side , and bid them watch his hand to row in or back out , and so coaxed he them toward the bank .
But none would set foot ashore , though the gold be within ten pace .
No man be hasty to his hanging !
They whimper at their oar like beaten hound , and Witta bite his finger for rage .
` Said Hugh of a sudden , `` Hark ! ''
At first we think it be the buzzing of the glitter fly on the water ; but it grow loud and fierce , so that all men heard . '
` What ? '
say Dan and Una .
` It be the Sword . '
Sir Richard pat the smooth hilt .
` It sing a a Dane sings before battle .
`` I go , '' say Hugh , and he leap from the bow and fell among the gold .
I be afraid to my four bone ' marrow , but for shame 's sake I follow , and Thorkild of Borkum leap after me .
None other come .
`` Blame me not , '' cry Witta behind u , `` I must abide by my ship . ''
We three have no time to blame or praise .
We stoop to the gold and throw it back over our shoulder , one hand on our sword and one eye on the tree , which nigh overhung u . '
I know not how the Devils leap down , or how the fight begin .
I hear Hugh cry : `` Out !
out ! ''
a though he be at Santlache again ; I saw Thorkild 's steel cap smite off his head by a great hairy hand , and I felt an arrow from the ship whistle past my ear .
They say that till Witta take his sword to the rower he could not bring his ship inshore ; and each one of the four archer say afterwards that he alone have pierce the Devil that fight me .
I do not know .
I go to it in my mail-shirt , which save my skin .
With long-sword and belt-dagger I fought for the life against a Devil whose very foot be hand , and who whirl me back and forth like a dead branch .
He have me by the waist , my arm to my side , when an arrow from the ship pierce him between the shoulder , and he loosen grip .
I pass my sword twice through him , and he crutched himself away between his long arm , cough and moaning .
Next , a I remember , I saw Thorkild of Borkum , bare-headed and smiling , leap up and down before a Devil that leap and gnash his teeth .
Then Hugh pass , his sword shift to his left hand , and I wonder why I have not know that Hugh be a left-handed man ; and thereafter I remember nothing till I felt spray on my face , and we be in sunshine on the open sea .
That be twenty day after . '
` What have happen ?
Did Hugh die ?
` the child ask .
` Never be such a fight fight by christened man , ' say Sir Richard .
` An arrow from the ship have save me from my Devil , and Thorkild of Borkum have give back before his Devil , till the bowman on the ship could shoot it all full of arrow from near by ; but Hugh 's Devil be cunning , and have keep behind tree , where no arrow could reach .
Body to body there , by stark strength of sword and hand , have Hugh slain him , and , die , the Thing have clench his teeth on the sword .
Judge what teeth they be ! '
Sir Richard turn the sword again that the child might see the two great chisel gouge on either side of the blade .
` Those same teeth meet in Hugh 's right arm and side , ' Sir Richard go on .
` I ?
Oh , I have no more than a broken foot and a fever .
Thorkild 's ear be bite , but Hugh 's arm and side clean wither away .
I saw him where he lay along , suck a fruit in his left hand .
His flesh be waste off his bone , his hair be patch with white , and his hand be blue-veined like a woman 's .
He put his left arm round my neck and whisper , `` Take my sword .
It have be thine since Hastings , O my brother , but I can never hold hilt again . ''
We lay there on the high deck talk of Santlache , and , I think , of every day since Santlache , and it come so that we both weep .
I be weak , and he little more than a shadow . '
`` Nay -- nay , '' say Witta , at the helm-rail .
`` Gold be a good right arm to any man .
Look -- look at the gold ! ''
He bid Thorkild show u the gold and the elephant ' teeth , a though we have be child .
He have bring away all the gold on the bank , and twice as much more , that the people of the village give him for slay the Devils .
They worship u a Gods , Thorkild tell me : it be one of their old woman heal up Hugh 's poor arm . '
` How much gold do you get ?
` ask Dan .
` How can I say ?
Where we come out with wedge of iron under the rower ' foot we return with wedge of gold hide beneath plank .
There be dust of gold in package where we sleep and along the side , and crosswise under the bench we lash the blackened elephant ' teeth . '
`` I have sooner have my right arm , '' say Hugh , when he have see all . '
`` Ahai !
That be my fault , '' say Witta .
`` I should have take ransom and land you in France when first you come aboard , ten month ago . '' '
`` It be over-late now , '' say Hugh , laugh .
` Witta pluck at his long shoulder-lock .
`` But think ! ''
say he .
`` If I have let ye go -- which I swear I would never have do , for I love ye more than brother -- if I have let ye go , by now ye might have be horribly slay by some mere Moor in the Duke of Burgundy 's war , or ye might have be murder by land-thieves , or ye might have die of the plague at an inn .
Think of this and do not blame me overmuch , Hugh .
See !
I will only take a half of the gold . '' '
`` I blame thee not at all , Witta , '' say Hugh .
`` It be a joyous venture , and we thirty-five here have do what never men have do .
If I live till England , I will build me a stout keep over Dallington out of my share . '' '
`` I will buy cattle and amber and warm red cloth for the wife , '' say Witta , `` and I will hold all the land at the head of Stavanger Fiord .
Many will fight for me now .
But first we must turn North , and with this honest treasure aboard I pray we meet no pirate ship . ''
` We do not laugh .
We be careful .
We be afraid l we should lose one grain of our gold , for which we have fight Devils . '
`` Where be the Sorcerer ? ''
say I , for Witta be look at the Wise Iron in the box , and I could not see the Yellow Man . '
`` He have go to his own country , '' say he .
`` He rise up in the night while we be beat out of that forest in the mud , and say that he could see it behind the tree .
He leap out on the mud , and do not answer when we call ; so we call no more .
He leave the Wise Iron , which be all that I care for -- and see , the Spirit still point to the South . ''
` We be trouble for fear that the Wise Iron should fail u now that it Yellow Man have go , and when we saw the Spirit still serve u we grow afraid of too strong wind , and of shoal , and of careless leap fish , and of all the people on all the shore where we land . '
` Why ? '
say Dan .
` Because of the gold -- because of our gold .
Gold change men altogether .
Thorkild of Borkum do not change .
He laugh at Witta for his fear , and at u for our counsel Witta to furl sail when the ship pitch at all . '
`` Better be drown out of hand , '' say Thorkild of Borkum , `` than go tied to a deck-load of yellow dust . ''
` He be a landless man , and have be slave to some King in the East .
He would have beat out the gold into deep band to put round the oar , and round the prow .
` Yet , though he vex himself for the gold , Witta wait upon Hugh like a woman , lend him his shoulder when the ship roll , and tying of rope from side to side that Hugh might hold by them .
But for Hugh , he say -- and so do all his men -- they would never have win the gold .
I remember Witta make a little , thin gold ring for our Bird to swing in .
` Three month we row and sail and go ashore for fruit or to clean the ship .
When we saw wild horseman , rid among sand-dunes , flourish spear , we know we be on the Moors ' coast , and stand over north to Spain ; and a strong south-west wind bore u in ten day to a coast of high red rock , where we hear a hunting-horn blow among the yellow gorse and know it be England . '
`` Now find ye Pevensey yourselves , '' say Witta .
`` I love not these narrow ship-filled sea . ''
` He set the dried , salted head of the Devil , which Hugh have kill , high on our prow , and all boat flee from u .
Yet , for our gold 's sake , we be more afraid than they .
We creep along the coast by night till we come to the chalk cliff , and so east to Pevensey .
Witta would not come ashore with u , though Hugh promise him wine at Dallington enough to swim in .
He be on fire to see his wife , and run into the Marsh after sunset , and there he leave u and our share of gold , and back out on the same tide .
He make no promise ; he swear no oath ; he look for no thanks ; but to Hugh , an armless man , and to me , an old cripple whom he could have fling into the sea , he pass over wedge upon wedge , packet upon packet of gold and dust of gold , and only cease when we would take no more .
As he stoop from the rail to bid u farewell he strip off his right-arm bracelet and put them all on Hugh 's left , and he kiss Hugh on the cheek .
I think when Thorkild of Borkum bid the rower give way we be near weep .
It be true that Witta be an heathen and a pirate ; true it be he hold u by force many month in his ship , but I love that bow-legged , blue-eyed man for his great boldness , his cunning , his skill , and , beyond all , for his simplicity . '
` Did he get home all right ? '
say Dan . '
I never know .
We saw him hoist sail under the moon-track and stand away .
I have pray that he find his wife and the child . '
` And what do you do ? '
` We wait on the Marsh till the day .
Then I sit by the gold , all tie in an old sail , while Hugh go to Pevensey , and De Aquila send u horse . '
Sir Richard cross hand on his sword-hilt , and star down stream through the soft warm shadow . '
A whole shipload of gold ! '
say Una , look at the little Golden Hind .
` But I 'm glad I do n't see the Devils . ' '
I do n't believe they be Devils , ` Dan whisper back .
` Eh ? '
say Sir Richard .
` Witta 's father warn him they be unquestionable Devils .
One must believe one 's father , and not one 's child .
What be my Devils , then ? '
Dan flush all over .
` I -- I only think , ' he stammer ; ` I 've get a book call The Gorilla Hunters -- it 's a continuation of Coral Island , sir -- and it say there that the gorilla -LRB- they 're big monkey , you know -RRB- be always chew iron up . '
` Not always , ' say Una .
` Only twice . '
They have be read The Gorilla Hunters in the orchard .
` Well , anyhow , they always drum on their chest , like Sir Richard 's do , before they go for people .
And they build house in tree , too . '
` Ha ! '
Sir Richard open his eye .
` Houses like flat nest do our Devils make , where their imp lay and look at u .
I do not see them -LRB- I be sick after the fight -RRB- , but Witta tell me , and , lo , ye know it also ?
Wonderful !
Were our Devils only nest-building ape ?
Is there no sorcery leave in the world ? ' '
I do n't know , ' answered Dan , uncomfortably .
` I 've see a man take rabbit out of a hat , and he tell u we could see how he do it , if we watch hard .
And we do . '
` But we do n't , ' say Una , sigh .
` Oh !
there 's Puck ! '
The little fellow , brown and smile , peer between two stem of an ash , nod , and slide down the bank into the cool beside them .
` No sorcery , Sir Richard ? '
he laugh , and blow on a full dandelion head he have pick .
` They tell me that Witta 's Wise Iron be a toy .
The boy carry such an iron with him .
They tell me our Devils be ape , call gorilla ! '
say Sir Richard , indignantly .
` That be the sorcery of book , ' say Puck . '
I warn thee they be wise child .
All people can be wise by reading of book . '
` But be the book true ? '
Sir Richard frown . '
I like not all this reading and write . '
` Ye-es , ' say Puck , hold the naked dandelion head at arm 's length .
` But if we hang all fellow who write falsely , why do De Aquila not begin with Gilbert the Clerk ?
He be false enough . '
` Poor false Gilbert .
Yet , in his fashion , he be bold , ' say Sir Richard .
` What do he do ? '
say Dan .
` He write , ' say Sir Richard .
` Is the tale meet for child , think you ? '
He look at Puck ; but ` Tell u !
Tell u ! '
cry Dan and Una together .
THORKILD 'S SONG There 's no wind along these sea , Out oars for Stavanger !
Forward all for Stavanger !
So we must wake the white-ash breeze , Let fall for Stavanger !
A long pull for Stavanger !
Oh , hear the bench creak and strain !
-LRB- A long pull for Stavanger ! -RRB-
She think she smell the Northland rain !
-LRB- A long pull for Stavanger ! -RRB-
She think she smell the Northland snow , And she 's as glad a we to go .
She think she smell the Northland rime , And the dear dark night of winter-time .
Her very bolt be sick for shore , And we -- we want it ten time more !
So all you Gods that love brave men , Send u a three-reef gale again !
Send u a gale , and watch u come , With close-cropped canvas slash home !
But -- there 's no wind in all these sea .
A long pull for Stavanger !
So we must wake the white-ash breeze , A long pull for Stavanger !
OLD MEN AT PEVENSEY ` It have naught to do with ape or Devils , ` Sir Richard go on , in an undertone .
` It concern De Aquila , than whom there be never bold nor crafty , nor more hardy knight bear .
And remember he be an old , old man at that time . '
` When ? '
say Dan .
` When we come back from sail with Witta . '
` What do you do with your gold ? '
say Dan .
` Have patience .
Link by link be chain-mail make .
I will tell all in it place .
We bore the gold to Pevensey on horseback -- three load of it -- and then up to the north chamber , above the Great Hall of Pevensey Castle , where De Aquila lay in winter .
He sit on his bed like a little white falcon , turn his head swiftly from one to the other a we tell our tale .
Jehan the Crab , an old sour man-at-arms , guard the stairway , but De Aquila bid him wait at the stair-foot , and let down both leather curtain over the door .
It be Jehan whom De Aquila have send to u with the horse , and only Jehan have load the gold .
When our story be tell , De Aquila give u the news of England , for we be a men wake from a year-long sleep .
The Red King be dead -- slay -LRB- ye remember ? -RRB-
the day we set sail -- and Henry , his young brother , have make himself King of England over the head of Robert of Normandy .
This be the very thing that the Red King have do to Robert when our Great William die .
Then Robert of Normandy , mad , a De Aquila say , at twice miss of this kingdom , have send an army against England , which army have be well beaten back to their ship at Portsmouth .
A little early , and Witta 's ship would have row through them . '
`` And now , '' say De Aquila , `` half the great Barons of the North and West be out against the King between Salisbury and Shrewsbury , and half the other half wait to see which way the game shall go .
They say Henry be overly English for their stomach , because he hath marry an English wife and she hath coax him to give back their old law to our Saxons .
-LRB- Better ride a horse on the bit he know , I say ! -RRB-
But that be only a cloak to their falsehood . ''
He crack his finger on the table , where the wine be spill , and thus he speak : -- ' `` William cram u Norman barons full of good English acre after Santlache .
I have my share too , '' he say , and clap Hugh on the shoulder ; `` but I warn him -- I warn him before Odo rebel -- that he should have bid the Barons give up their land and lordship in Normandy if they would be English lord .
Now they be all but prince both in England and Normandy -- trencher-fed hound , with a foot in one trough and both eye on the other !
Robert of Normandy have send them word that if they do not fight for him in England he will sack and harry out their land in Normandy .
Therefore Clare have rise , FitzOsborne have rise , Montgomery have rise -- whom our First William make an English Earl .
Even D'Arcy be out with his men , whose father I remember a little hedge-sparrow knight nearby Caen .
If Henry win , the Barons can still flee to Normandy , where Robert will welcome them .
If Henry lose , Robert , he say , will give them more land in England .
Oh , a pest -- a pest on Normandy , for she will be our England 's curse this many a long year ! '' '
`` Amen , '' say Hugh .
`` But will the war come our way , think you ? '' '
`` Not from the North , '' say De Aquila .
`` But the sea be always open .
If the Barons gain the upper hand Robert will send another army into England for sure , and this time I think he will land here -- where his father , the Conqueror , land .
Ye have bring your pig to a pretty market !
Half England alight , and gold enough on the ground '' -- he stamp on the bar beneath the table -- `` to set every sword in Christendom fighting . '' '
`` What be to do ? ''
say Hugh .
`` I have no keep at Dallington ; and if we bury it , whom could we trust ? '' '
`` Me , '' say De Aquila .
`` Pevensey wall be strong .
No man but Jehan , who be my dog , know what be between them . ''
He draw a curtain by the shot-window and show u the shaft of a well in the thickness of the wall . '
`` I make it for a drinking-well , '' he say , `` but we find salt water , and it rise and fall with the tide .
Hark ! ''
We hear the water whistle and blow at the bottom .
`` Will it serve ? ''
say he . '
`` Needs must , '' say Hugh .
`` Our life be in thy hand . ''
So we lower all the gold down except one small chest of it by De Aquila 's bed , which we keep as much for his delight in it weight and colour a for any of our need .
` In the morning , ere we ride to our Manors , he say : `` I do not say farewell ; because ye will return and bide here .
Not for love nor for sorrow , but to be with the gold .
Have a care , '' he say , laugh , `` l I use it to make myself Pope .
Trust me not , but return ! '' '
Sir Richard pause and smile sadly .
` In seven day , then , we return from our Manors -- from the Manors which have be ours . '
` And be the child quite well ? '
say Una .
` My son be young .
Land and governance belong by right to young men . '
Sir Richard be talk to himself .
` It would have break their heart if we have take back our Manors .
They make u great welcome , but we could see -- Hugh and I could see -- that our day be do .
I be a cripple and he a one-armed man .
No ! '
He shake his head .
` And therefore ' -- he raise his voice -- ` we ride back to Pevensey . '
` I 'm sorry , ' say Una , for the knight seem very sorrowful .
` Little maid , it all pass long ago .
They be young ; we be old .
We let them rule the Manors .
`` Aha ! ''
cry De Aquila from his shot-window , when we dismount .
`` Back again to earth , old fox ? ''
but when we be in his chamber above the Hall he put his arm about u and say , `` Welcome , ghost !
Welcome , poor ghost ! ''
... Thus it fell out that we be rich beyond belief , and lonely .
And lonely ! '
` What do you do ? '
say Dan .
` We watch for Robert of Normandy , ' say the knight .
` De Aquila be like Witta .
He suffer no idleness .
In fair weather we would ride along between Bexlei on the one side , to Cuckmere on the other -- sometimes with hawk , sometimes with hound -LRB- there be stout hare both on the Marsh and the Downland -RRB- , but always with an eye to the sea , for fear of fleet from Normandy .
In foul weather he would walk on the top of his tower , frown against the rain -- peer here and point there .
It always vex him to think how Witta 's ship have come and go without his knowledge .
When the wind cease and ship anchor , to the wharf 's edge he would go and , lean on his sword among the stink fish , would call to the mariner for their news from France .
His other eye he keep landward for word of Henry 's war against the Barons .
` Many bring him news -- jongleur , harper , pedlar , sutler , priest and the like ; and , though he be secret enough in small thing , yet , if their news misliked him , then , regard neither time nor place nor people , he would curse our King Henry for a fool or a babe .
I have hear him cry aloud by the fishing boat : `` If I be King of England I would do thus and thus '' ; and when I ride out to see that the warning-beacons be lay and dry , he hath often call to me from the shot-window : `` Look to it , Richard !
Do not copy our blind King , but see with thine own eye and feel with thine own hand . ''
I do not think he know any sort of fear .
And so we live at Pevensey , in the little chamber above the Hall .
` One foul night come word that a messenger of the King wait below .
We be chill after a long riding in the fog towards Bexlei , which be an easy place for ship to land .
De Aquila send word the man might either eat with u or wait till we have feed .
Anon Jehan , at the stair-head , cry that he have call for horse , and be go .
`` Pest on him ! ''
say De Aquila .
`` I have more to do than to shiver in the Great Hall for every gadling the King sends .
Left he no word ? '' '
`` None , '' say Jehan , `` except '' -- he have be with De Aquila at Santlache -- `` except he say that if an old dog could not learn new trick it be time to sweep out the kennel . '' '
`` Oho ! ''
say De Aquila , rub his nose , `` to whom do he say that ? '' '
`` To his beard , chiefly , but some to his horse 's flank a he be girth up .
I follow him out , '' say Jehan the Crab . '
`` What be his shield-mark ? '' '
`` Gold horseshoe on black , '' say the Crab . '
`` That be one of Fulke 's men , '' say De Aquila . '
Puck break in very gently , ` Gold horseshoe on black be not the Fulkes ' shield .
The Fulkes ' arm be -- ' The knight wave one hand statelily .
` Thou knowest that evil man 's true name , ' he reply , ` but I have choose to call him Fulke because I promise him I would not tell the story of his wickedness so that any man might guess it .
I have change all the name in my tale .
His child 's child may be still alive . '
` True -- true , ' say Puck , smile softly .
` It be knightly to keep faith -- even after a thousand year . '
Sir Richard bow a little and go on : -- ' `` Gold horseshoe on black ? ''
say De Aquila .
`` I have hear Fulke have join the Barons , but if this be true our King must be of the upper hand .
No matter , all Fulkes be faithless .
Still , I would not have send the man away empty . '' '
`` He feed , '' say Jehan .
`` Gilbert the Clerk fetch him meat and wine from the kitchen .
He eat at Gilbert 's table . ''
` This Gilbert be a clerk from Battle Abbey , who keep the account of the Manor of Pevensey .
He be tall and pale-coloured , and carry those new-fashioned bead for counting of prayer .
They be large brown nut or seed , and hang from his girdle with his pen and inkhorn they clash when he walk .
His place be in the great fireplace .
There be his table of account , and there he lay o ' night .
He fear the hound in the Hall that come nosing after bone or to sleep on the warm ash , and would slash at them with his bead -- like a woman .
When De Aquila sit in Hall to do justice , take fine , or grant land , Gilbert would so write it in the Manor-roll .
But it be none of his work to fee our guest , or to let them depart without his lord 's knowledge .
` Said De Aquila , after Jehan be go down the stair : `` Hugh , hast thou ever tell my Gilbert thou canst read Latin hand-of-write ? '' '
`` No , '' say Hugh .
`` He be no friend to me , or to Odo my hound either . '' '
`` No matter , '' say De Aquila .
`` Let him never know thou canst tell one letter from it fellow , and '' -- here he jerk u in the rib with his scabbard -- `` watch him , both of ye .
There be devil in Africa , a I have hear , but by the Saints , there be great devil in Pevensey ! ''
And that be all he would say .
` It chance , some small while afterwards , a Norman man-at-arms would wed a Saxon wench of the Manor , and Gilbert -LRB- we have watch him well since De Aquila speak -RRB- doubt whether her folk be free or slave .
Since De Aquila would give them a field of good land , if she be free , the matter come up at the justice in Great Hall before De Aquila .
First the wench 's father speak ; then her mother ; then all together , till the hall rang and the hound bay .
De Aquila hold up his hand .
`` Write her free , '' he call to Gilbert by the fireplace .
`` A ' God 's name write her free , before she deafen me !
Yes , yes , '' he say to the wench that be on her knee at him ; `` thou art Cerdic 's sister , and own cousin to the Lady of Mercia , if thou wilt be silent .
In fifty year there will be neither Norman nor Saxon , but all English , '' say he , `` and these be the men that do our work ! ''
He clap the man-at-arms that be Jehan 's nephew on the shoulder , and kiss the wench , and fret with his foot among the rush to show it be finish .
-LRB- The Great Hall be always bitter cold . -RRB-
I stand at his side ; Hugh be behind Gilbert in the fireplace making to play with wise rough Odo .
He sign to De Aquila , who bid Gilbert measure the new field for the new couple .
Out then run our Gilbert between man and maid , his bead clash at his waist , and the Hall be empty , we three sit by the fire .
` Said Hugh , lean down to the hearthstone , `` I saw this stone move under Gilbert 's foot when Odo snuff at it .
Look ! ''
De Aquila digged in the ash with his sword ; the stone tilt ; beneath it lay a parchment folden , and the write atop be : `` Words speak against the King by our Lord of Pevensey -- the second part . ''
` Here be set out -LRB- Hugh read it u whisper -RRB- every jest De Aquila have make to u touch the King ; every time he have call out to me from the shot-window , and every time he have say what he would do if he be King of England .
Yes , day by day have his daily speech , which he never stint , be set down by Gilbert , trick out and twisted from it true meaning , yet withal so cunningly that none could deny who know him that De Aquila have in some sort speak those word .
Ye see ? '
Dan and Una nod .
` Yes , ' say Una gravely .
` It be n't what you say so much .
It 's what you mean when you say it .
Like call Dan a beast in fun .
Only grown-ups do n't always understand . ' '
`` He hath do this day by day before our very face ? ''
say De Aquila . '
`` Nay , hour by hour , '' say Hugh .
`` When De Aquila speak even now , in the Hall , of Saxons and Normans , I saw Gilbert write on a parchment , which he keep beside the Manor-roll , that De Aquila say soon there would be no Normans leave in England if his man-at-arms do their work aright . '' '
`` Bones of the Saints ! ''
say De Aquila .
`` What avail be honour or a sword against a pen ?
Where do Gilbert hide that write ?
He shall eat it . '' '
`` In his breast when he run out , '' say Hugh .
`` Which make me look to see where he keep his finished stuff .
When Odo scratch at this stone here , I saw his face change .
So I be sure . '' '
`` He be bold , '' say De Aquila .
`` Do him justice .
In his own fashion , my Gilbert be bold . '' '
`` Overbold , '' say Hugh .
`` Hearken here , '' and he read : `` Upon the Feast of St Agatha , our Lord of Pevensey , lie in his upper chamber , be clothe in his second fur gown reverse with rabbit -- '' ' `` Pest on him !
He be not my tire-woman ! ''
say De Aquila , and Hugh and I laugh . '
`` Reversed with rabbit , see a fog over the marsh , do wake Sir Richard Dalyngridge , his drunken cup-mate '' -LRB- here they laugh at me -RRB- `` and say , ` Peer out , old fox , for God be on the Duke of Normandy 's side . '' ' '
`` So do I .
It be a black fog .
Robert could have land ten thousand men , and we none the wiser .
Does he tell how we be out all day rid the Marsh , and how I near perish in a quicksand , and cough like a sick ewe for ten day after ? ''
cry De Aquila . '
`` No , '' say Hugh .
`` But here be the prayer of Gilbert himself to his master Fulke . '' '
`` Ah , '' say De Aquila .
`` Well I know it be Fulke .
What be the price of my blood ? '' '
`` Gilbert prayeth that when our Lord of Pevensey be strip of his land on this evidence which Gilbert hath , with fear and pain , collect -- '' ' `` Fear and pain be a true word , '' say De Aquila , and suck in his cheek .
`` But how excellent a weapon be a pen !
I must learn it . '' '
`` He pray that Fulke will advance him from his present service to that honour in the Church which Fulke promise him .
And l Fulke should forget , he have write below , ` To be Sacristan of Battle ' . ''
` At this De Aquila whistle .
`` A man who can plot against one lord can plot against another .
When I be strip of my land Fulke will whip off my Gilbert 's foolish head .
None the less Battle need a new Sacristan .
They tell me the Abbot Henry keep no sort of rule there . '' '
`` Let the Abbot wait , '' say Hugh .
`` It be our head and our land that be in danger .
This parchment be the second part of the tale .
The first have go to Fulke , and so to the King , who will hold u traitor . ''
`` Assuredly , '' say De Aquila .
`` Fulke 's man take the first part that even when Gilbert feed him , and our King be so beset by his brother and his Barons -LRB- small blame , too ! -RRB-
that he be mad with mistrust .
Fulke have his ear , and pour poison into it .
Presently the King give him my land and yours .
This be old , '' and he lean back and yawn . '
`` And thou wilt surrender Pevensey without word or blow ? ''
say Hugh .
`` We Saxons will fight your King then .
I will go warn my nephew at Dallington .
Give me a horse ! '' '
`` Give thee a toy and a rattle , '' say De Aquila .
`` Put back the parchment , and rake over the ash .
If Fulke be give my Pevensey , which be England 's gate , what will he do with it ?
He be Norman at heart , and his heart be in Normandy , where he can kill peasant at his pleasure .
He will open England 's gate to our sleepy Robert , a Odo and Mortain try to do , and then there will be another landing and another Santlache .
Therefore I can not give up Pevensey . '' '
`` Good , '' say we two . '
`` Ah , but wait !
If my King be make , on Gilbert 's evidence , to mistrust me , he will send his men against me here , and while we fight , England 's gate be leave unguarded .
Who will be the first to come through thereby ?
Even Robert of Normandy .
Therefore I can not fight my King . ''
He nurse his sword -- thus . '
`` This be say and unsay like a Norman , '' say Hugh .
`` What of our Manors ? '' '
`` I do not think for myself , '' say De Aquila , `` nor for our King , nor for your land .
I think for England , for whom neither King nor Baron think .
I be not Norman , Sir Richard , nor Saxon , Sir Hugh .
English be I. '' ' `` Saxon , Norman or English , '' say Hugh , `` our life be thine , however the game go .
When do we hang Gilbert ? '' '
`` Never , '' say De Aquila .
`` Who know , he may yet be Sacristan of Battle , for , to do him justice , he be a good writer .
Dead men make dumb witness .
Wait . '' '
`` But the King may give Pevensey to Fulke .
And our Manors go with it , '' say I . `` Shall we tell our son ? '' '
`` No .
The King will not wake up a hornet ' nest in the South till he have smoke out the bee in the North .
He may hold me a traitor ; but at least he see I be not fight against him ; and every day that I lie still be so much gain to him while he fight the Barons .
If he be wise he would wait till that war be over before he make new enemy .
But I think Fulke will play upon him to send for me , and if I do not obey the summons , that will , to Henry 's mind , be proof of my treason .
But mere talk , such a Gilbert sends , be no proof nowadays .
We Barons follow the Church , and , like Anselm , we speak what we please .
Let u go about our day 's dealing , and say naught to Gilbert . '' '
`` Then we do nothing ? ''
say Hugh . '
`` We wait , '' say De Aquila .
`` I be old , but still I find that the most grievous work I know . ''
` And so we find it , but in the end De Aquila be right . '
A little later in the year , arm men ride over the hill , the Golden Horseshoes fly behind the King 's banner .
Said De Aquila , at the window of our chamber : `` How do I tell you ?
Here come Fulke himself to spy out his new land which our King hath promise him if he can bring proof of my treason . '' '
`` How dost thou know ? ''
say Hugh . '
`` Because that be what I would do if I be Fulke , but I should have bring more men .
My roan horse to your old shoe , '' say he , `` Fulke bring me the King 's Summons to leave Pevensey and join the war . ''
He suck in his cheek and drum on the edge of the shaft , where the water sound all hollow . '
`` Shall we go ? ''
say I. ' `` Go !
At this time of year ?
Stark madness , '' say he .
`` Take me from Pevensey to fisk and flyte through fern and forest , and in three day Robert 's keel would be lie on Pevensey mud with ten thousand men !
Who would stop them -- Fulke ? ''
` The horn blow without , and anon Fulke cry the King 's Summons at the great door , that De Aquila with all men and horse should join the King 's camp at Salisbury . '
`` How do I tell you ? ''
say De Aquila .
`` There be twenty Barons ` twixt here and Salisbury could give King Henry good land service , but he have be work upon by Fulke to send South and call me -- me !
-- off the Gate of England , when his enemy stand about to batter it in .
See that Fulke 's men lie in the big south barn , '' say he .
`` Give them drink , and when Fulke have eat we will drink in my chamber .
The Great Hall be too cold for old bone . ''
` As soon a he be off-horse Fulke go to the chapel with Gilbert to give thanks for his safe coming , and when he have eat -- he be a fat man , and roll his eye greedily at our good roast Sussex wheatear -- we lead him to the little upper chamber , whither Gilbert have already go with the Manor-roll .
I remember when Fulke hear the tide blow and whistle in the shaft he leap back , and his long down-turned stirrup-shoes catch in the rush and he stumble , so that Jehan behind him find it easy to knock his head against the wall . '
` Did you know it be go to happen ? '
say Dan .
` Assuredly , ' say Sir Richard , with a sweet smile . '
I put my foot on his sword and pluck away his dagger , but he know not whether it be day or night for awhile .
He lay roll his eye and bubble with his mouth , and Jehan rope him like a calf .
He be case all in that newfangled armour which we call lizard-mail .
Not ring like my hauberk here ' -- Sir Richard tap his chest -- but little piece of dagger-proof steel overlap on stout leather .
We strip it off -LRB- no need to spoil good harness by wet it -RRB- , and in the neck-piece De Aquila find the same folden piece of parchment which we have put back under the hearthstone .
` At this Gilbert would have run out .
I lay my hand on his shoulder .
It suffice .
He fell to tremble and pray on his bead . '
`` Gilbert , '' say De Aquila , `` here be more notable saying and doings of our Lord of Pevensey for thee to write down .
Take pen and ink-horn , Gilbert .
We can not all be Sacristans of Battle . ''
` Said Fulke from the floor , `` Ye have bind a King 's messenger .
Pevensey shall burn for this . '' '
`` Maybe .
I have see it besiege once , '' say De Aquila , `` but heart up , Fulke .
I promise thee that thou shalt be hang in the middle of the flame at the end of that siege , if I have to share my last loaf with thee ; and that be more than Odo would have do when we starve out him and Mortain . ''
` Then Fulke sit up and look long and cunningly at De Aquila . '
`` By the Saints , '' say he , `` why didst thou not say thou wast on the Duke Robert 's side at the first ? '' '
`` Am I ? ''
say De Aquila .
` Fulke laugh and say , `` No man who serve King Henry dare do this much to his messenger .
When didst thou come over to the Duke ?
Let me up and we can smooth it out together . ''
And he smile and becked and wink . '
`` Yes , we will smooth it out , '' say De Aquila .
He nod to me , and Jehan and I heave up Fulke -- he be a heavy man -- and lower him into the shaft by a rope , not so a to stand on our gold , but dangle by his shoulder a little above .
It be turn of ebb , and the water come to his knee .
He say nothing , but shiver somewhat .
` Then jehan of a sudden beat down Gilbert 's wrist with his sheathed dagger .
`` Stop ! ''
he say .
`` He swallow his bead . '' '
`` Poison , belike , '' say De Aquila .
`` It be good for men who know too much .
I have carry it these thirty year .
Give me ! ''
` Then Gilbert wept and howl .
De Aquila run the bead through his finger .
The last one -- I have say they be large nut -- open in two half on a pin , and there be a small folded parchment within .
On it be write : '' The Old Dog go to Salisbury to be beat .
I have his Kennel .
Come quickly . '' '
`` This be bad than poison , '' say De Aquila , very softly , and suck in his cheek .
Then Gilbert grovel in the rush , and tell u all he know .
The letter , a we guess , be from Fulke to the Duke -LRB- and not the first that have pass between them -RRB- ; Fulke have give it to Gilbert in the chapel , and Gilbert think to have take it by morning to a certain fishing boat at the wharf , which traffic between Pevensey and the French shore .
Gilbert be a false fellow , but he find time between his quakings and shaking to swear that the master of the boat know nothing of the matter . '
`` He hath call me shaved head , '' say Gilbert , `` and he hath thrown haddock-guts at me ; but for all that , he be no traitor . '' '
`` I will have no clerk of mine mishandle or miscall , '' say De Aquila .
`` That seaman shall be whip at his own mast .
Write me first a letter , and thou shalt bear it , with the order for the whipping , to-morrow to the boat . ''
` At this Gilbert would have kiss De Aquila 's hand -- he have not hop to live until the morning -- and when he tremble le he write a letter a from Fulke to the Duke , say that the Kennel , which signify Pevensey , be shut , and that the Old Dog -LRB- which be De Aquila -RRB- sit outside it , and , moreover , that all have be betray . '
`` Write to any man that all be betray , '' say De Aquila , `` and even the Pope himself would sleep uneasily .
Eh , Jehan ?
If one tell thee all be betray , what wouldst thou do ? '' '
`` I would run away , '' say Jehan .
`` it might be true . '' '
`` Well say , '' quoth De Aquila .
`` Write , Gilbert , that Montgomery , the great Earl , hath make his peace with the King , and that little D'Arcy , whom I hate , hath be hang by the heel .
We will give Robert full measure to chew upon .
Write also that Fulke himself be sick to death of a dropsy . '' '
`` Nay ! ''
cry Fulke , hang in the well-shaft .
`` Drown me out of hand , but do not make a jest of me . '' '
`` Jest ?
I ? ''
say De Aquila .
`` I be but fight for life and land with a pen , a thou hast show me , Fulke . ''
` Then Fulke groan , for he be cold , and , `` Let me confess , '' say he . '
`` Now , this be right neighbourly , '' say De Aquila , lean over the shaft .
`` Thou hast read my saying and doings -- or at least the first part of them -- and thou art mind to repay me with thy own doings and saying .
Take pen and inkhorn , Gilbert .
Here be work that will not irk thee . '' '
`` Let my men go without hurt , and I will confess my treason against the King , '' say Fulke . '
`` Now , why have he grow so tender of his men of a sudden ? ''
say Hugh to me ; for Fulke have no name for mercy to his men .
Plunder he give them , but pity , none . '
`` T !
T ! ''
say De Aquila .
`` Thy treason be all confess long ago by Gilbert .
It would be enough to hang Montgomery himself . '' '
`` Nay ; but spare my men , '' say Fulke ; and we hear him splash like a fish in a pond , for the tide be rise . '
`` All in good time , '' say De Aquila .
`` The night be young ; the wine be old ; and we need only the merry tale .
Begin the story of thy life since when thou wast a lad at Tours .
Tell it nimbly ! '' '
`` Ye shame me to my soul , '' say Fulke . '
`` Then I have do what neither King nor Duke could do , '' say De Aquila .
`` But begin , and forget nothing . '' '
`` Send thy man away , '' say Fulke . '
`` That much can I do , '' say De Aquila .
`` But , remember , I be like the Danes ' King ; I can not turn the tide . '' '
`` How long will it rise ? ''
say Fulke , and splash anew . '
`` For three hour , '' say De Aquila .
`` Time to tell all thy good deed .
Begin , and Gilbert , -- I have hear thou art somewhat careless -- do not twist his word from his true meaning . ''
` So -- fear of death in the dark be upon him -- Fulke begin , and Gilbert , not know what his fate might be , write it word by word .
I have hear many tale , but never hear I aught to match the tale of Fulke his black life , a Fulke tell it hollowly , hang in the shaft . '
` Was it bad ? '
say Dan , awestruck .
` Beyond belief , ' Sir Richard answer .
` None the less , there be that in it which force even Gilbert to laugh .
We three laugh till we ache .
At one place his teeth so chatter that we could not well hear , and we reach him down a cup of wine .
Then he warm to it , and smoothly set out all his shift , malice , and treachery , his extreme boldness -LRB- he be desperate bold -RRB- ; his retreat , shuffling , and counterfeitings -LRB- he be also inconceivably a coward -RRB- ; his lack of gear and honour ; his despair at their loss ; his remedy , and well-coloured contrivance .
Yes , he wave the filthy rag of his life before u , a though they have be some proud banner .
When he cease , we saw by torch that the tide stand at the corner of his mouth , and he breathe strongly through his nose .
` We have him out , and rub him ; we wrap him in a cloak , and give him wine , and we lean and look upon him , the while he drink .
He be shiver , but shameless .
` Of a sudden we hear Jehan at the stairway wake , but a boy push past him , and stand before u , the hall rush in his hair , all slubbered with sleep .
`` My father !
My father !
I dream of treachery , '' he cry , and babble thickly . '
`` There be no treachery here , '' say Fulke .
`` Go ! ''
and the boy turn , even then not fully awake , and Jehan lead him by the hand to the Great Hall . '
`` Thy only son ! ''
say De Aquila .
`` Why didst thou bring the child here ? '' '
`` He be my heir .
I dare not trust him to my brother , '' say Fulke , and now he be ashamed .
De Aquila say nothing , but sit weigh a wine cup in his two hand -- thus .
Anon , Fulke touch him on the knee . '
`` Let the boy escape to Normandy , '' say he , `` and do with me at thy pleasure .
Yea , hang me tomorrow , with my letter to Robert round my neck , but let the boy go . '' '
`` Be still , '' say De Aquila .
`` I think for England . ''
` So we wait what our Lord of Pevensey should devise ; and the sweat run down Fulke 's forehead .
` At last say De Aquila : `` I be too old to judge , or to trust any man .
I do not covet thy land , a thou hast covet mine ; and whether thou art any good or any bad than any other black Angevin thief , it be for thy King to find out .
Therefore , go back to thy King , Fulke . '' '
`` And thou wilt say nothing of what have pass ? ''
say Fulke . '
`` Why should I ?
Thy son will stay with me .
If the King call me again to leave Pevensey , which I must guard against England 's enemy ; if the King send his men against me for a traitor ; or if I hear that the King in his bed think any evil of me or my two knight , thy son will be hang from out this window , Fulke . '' '
` But it have n't anything to do with his son , ' cry Una , startle .
` How could we have hang Fulke ? '
say Sir Richard .
` We need him to make our peace with the King .
He would have betray half England for the boy 's sake .
Of that we be sure . ' '
I do n't understand , ' say Una .
` But I think it be simply awful . '
` So do not Fulke .
He be well pleased . '
` What ?
Because his son be go to be kill ? '
` Nay .
Because De Aquila have show him how he might save the boy 's life and his own land and honour .
`` I will do it , '' he say .
`` I swear I will do it .
I will tell the King thou art no traitor , but the most excellent , valiant , and perfect of u all .
Yes , I will save thee . ''
` De Aquila look still into the bottom of the cup , roll the wine-dregs to and fro . '
`` Ay , '' he say .
`` If I have a son , I would , I think , save him .
But do not by any mean tell me how thou wilt go about it . '' '
`` Nay , nay , '' say Fulke , nod his bald head wisely .
`` That be my secret .
But rest at ease , De Aquila , no hair of thy head nor rood of thy land shall be forfeit , '' and he smile like one planning great good deed . '
`` And henceforward , '' say De Aquila , `` I counsel thee to serve one master -- not two . '' '
`` What ? ''
say Fulke .
`` Can I work no more honest trading between the two side these troublous time ? '' '
`` Serve Robert or the King -- England or Normandy , '' say De Aquila .
`` I care not which it be , but make thy choice here and now . '' '
`` The King , then , '' say Fulke , `` for I see he be well serve than Robert .
Shall I swear it ? '' '
`` No need , '' say De Aquila , and he lay his hand on the parchment which Gilbert have write .
`` It shall be some part of my Gilbert 's penance to copy out the savoury tale of thy life , till we have make ten , twenty , an hundred , maybe , copy .
How many cattle , think you , would the Bishop of Tours give for that tale ?
Or thy brother ?
Or the Monks of Blois ?
Minstrels will turn it into song which thy own Saxon serf shall sing behind their plough-stilts , and man-at-arms rid through thy Norman town .
From here to Rome , Fulke , men will make very merry over that tale , and how Fulke tell it , hang in a well , like a drowned puppy .
This shall be thy punishment , if ever I find thee double-dealing with thy King any more .
Meantime , the parchment stay here with thy son .
Him I will return to thee when thou hast make my peace with the King .
The parchment never . ''
` Fulke hid his face and groan . '
`` Bones of the Saints ! ''
say De Aquila , laugh .
`` The pen cut deep .
I could never have fetch that grunt out of thee with any sword . '' '
`` But so long a I do not anger thee , my tale will be secret ? ''
say Fulke . '
`` Just so long .
Does that comfort thee , Fulke ? ''
say De Aquila . '
`` What other comfort have ye leave me ? ''
he say , and of a sudden he weep hopelessly like a child , drop his face on his knee . '
` Poor Fulke , ' say Una . '
I pity him also , ' say Sir Richard . '
`` After the spur , corn , '' say De Aquila , and he throw Fulke three wedge of gold that he have take from our little chest by the bedplace . '
`` If I have know this , '' say Fulke , catch his breath , `` I would never have lift hand against Pevensey .
Only lack of this yellow stuff have make me so unlucky in my dealing . ''
` It be dawn then , and they stir in the Great Hall below .
We send down Fulke 's mail to be scour , and when he ride away at noon under his own and the King 's banner , very splendid and stately do he show .
He smooth his long beard , and call his son to his stirrup and kiss him .
De Aquila rode with him as far a the New Mill landward .
We think the night have be all a dream . '
` But do he make it right with the King ? '
Dan ask .
` About your not be traitor , I mean . '
Sir Richard smile .
` The King send no second summons to Pevensey , nor do he ask why De Aquila have not obey the first .
Yes , that be Fulke 's work .
I know not how he do it , but it be well and swiftly do . '
` Then you do n't do anything to his son ? '
say Una .
` The boy ?
Oh , he be an imp !
He turn the keep door out of dortoirs while we have him .
He sing foul song , learn in the Barons ' camp -- poor fool ; he set the hound fight in Hall ; he light the rush to drive out , a he say , the flea ; he draw his dagger on Jehan , who throw him down the stairway for it ; and he ride his horse through crop and among sheep .
But when we have beat him , and show him wolf and deer , he follow u old men like a young , eager hound , and call u `` uncle '' .
His father come the summer 's end to take him away , but the boy have no lust to go , because of the otter-hunting , and he stay on till the fox-hunting .
I give him a bittern 's claw to bring him good luck at shoot .
An imp , if ever there be ! '
` And what happen to Gilbert ? '
say Dan .
` Not even a whipping .
De Aquila say he would sooner a clerk , however false , that know the Manor-roll than a fool , however true , that must be teach his work afresh .
Moreover , after that night I think Gilbert love as much a he fear De Aquila .
At least he would not leave u -- not even when Vivian , the King 's Clerk , would have make him Sacristan of Battle Abbey .
A false fellow , but , in his fashion , bold . '
` Did Robert ever land in Pevensey after all ? '
Dan go on .
` We guard the coast too well while Henry be fight his Barons ; and three or four year later , when England have peace , Henry cross to Normandy and show his brother some work at Tenchebrai that cure Robert of fighting .
Many of Henry 's men sail from Pevensey to that war .
Fulke come , I remember , and we all four lay in the little chamber once again , and drink together .
De Aquila be right .
One should not judge men .
Fulke be merry .
Yes , always merry -- with a catch in his breath . '
` And what do you do afterwards ? '
say Una .
` We talk together of time past .
That be all men can do when they grow old , little maid . '
The bell for tea rang faintly across the meadow .
Dan lay in the bow of the Golden Hind ; Una in the stern , the book of verse open in her lap , be read from ` The Slave 's Dream ' : ` Again , in the mist and shadow of sleep , He saw his native land . ' '
I do n't know when you begin that , ' say Dan , sleepily .
On the middle thwart of the boat , beside Una 's sun-bonnet , lay an Oak leaf , an Ash leaf , and a Thorn leaf , that must have drop down from the tree above ; and the brook giggle a though it have just see some joke .
THE RUNES ON WELAND 'S SWORD A Smith make me To betray my Man In my first fight .
To gather Gold At the world 's end I be send .
The Gold I gather Comes into England Out of deep Water .
Like a shin Fish Then it descend Into deep Water .
It be not give For good or gear , But for The Thing .
The Gold I gather A King covets For an ill use .
The Gold I gather Is draw up Out of deep Water .
Like a shin Fish Then it descend Into deep Water .
It be not give For good or gear , But for The Thing .
A CENTURION OF THE THIRTIETH Cities and Thrones and Powers Stand in Time 's eye , Almost as long a flower , Which daily die .
But , a new bud put forth To glad new men , Out of the spent and unconsidered Earth , The Cities rise again .
This season 's Daffodil , She never hear , What change , what chance , what chill , Cut down last year 's : But with bold countenance , And knowledge small , Esteems her seven day ' continuance To be perpetual .
So Time that be o'er-kind , To all that be , Ordains u e ` en a blind , As bold a she : That in our very death , And burial sure , Shadow to shadow , well persuade , saith , ` See how our work endure ! '
A Centurion of the Thirtieth Dan have come to grief over his Latin , and be keep in ; so Una go alone to Far Wood .
Dan 's big catapult and the lead bullet that Hobden have make for him be hide in an old hollow beech-stub on the west of the wood .
They have name the place out of the verse in Lays of Ancient Rome : From lordly Volaterrae , Where scowl the far-famed hold Piled by the hand of giant For Godlike Kings of old .
They be the ` Godlike Kings ' , and when old Hobden pile some comfortable brushwood between the big wooden knee of Volaterrae , they call him ` Hands of Giants ' .
Una slip through their private gap in the fence , and sit still awhile , scowl a scowlily and lordlily a she know how ; for Volaterrae be an important watch-tower that jut out of Far Wood just a Far Wood jut out of the hillside .
Pook 's Hill lay below her and all the turn of the brook a it wander out of the Willingford Woods , between hop-gardens , to old Hobden 's cottage at the Forge .
The Sou ' - West wind -LRB- there be always a wind by Volaterrae -RRB- blow from the bare ridge where Cherry Clack Windmill stand .
Now wind prowl through wood sound like excite thing go to happen , and that be why on blowy day you stand up in Volaterrae and shout bit of the Lays to suit it noise .
Una take Dan 's catapult from it secret place , and make ready to meet Lars Porsena 's army stealing through the wind-whitened aspen by the brook .
A gust boom up the valley , and Una chant sorrowfully : ` Verbenna down to Ostia Hath waste all the plain : Astur hath storm Janiculum , And the stout guard be slain . '
But the wind , not charge fair to the wood , start aside and shake a single oak in Gleason 's pasture .
Here it make itself all small and crouch among the grass , wave the tip of them a a cat wave the tip of her tail before she spring .
` Now welcome -- welcome , Sextus , ' sang Una , load the catapult -- ` Now welcome to thy home !
Why dost thou stay , and turn away ?
Here lie the road to Rome . '
She fire into the face of the lull , to wake up the cowardly wind , and hear a grunt from behind a thorn in the pasture .
` Oh , my Winkie ! '
she say aloud , and that be something she have pick up from Dan . '
I b ` lieve I 've tickle up a Gleason cow . '
` You little paint beast ! '
a voice cry .
` I 'll teach you to sling your master ! '
She look down most cautiously , and saw a young man cover with hoopy bronze armour all glowing among the late broom .
But what Una admire beyond all be his great bronze helmet with a red horse-tail that flick in the wind .
She could hear the long hair rasp on his shimmery shoulder-plates .
` What do the Faun mean , ' he say , half aloud to himself , ` by tell me that the Painted People have change ? '
He catch sight of Una 's yellow head .
` Have you see a painted lead-slinger ? '
he call .
` No-o , ' say Una .
` But if you 've see a bullet -- ' ` Seen ? '
cry the man .
` It pass within a hair 's breadth of my ear . '
` Well , that be me .
I 'm most awfully sorry . '
` Did n't the Faun tell you I be come ? '
He smile .
` Not if you mean Puck .
I think you be a Gleason cow .
I -- I do n't know you be a -- a -- What be you ? '
He laugh outright , show a set of splendid teeth .
His face and eye be dark , and his eyebrow meet above his big nose in one bushy black bar .
` They call me Parnesius .
I have be a Centurion of the Seventh Cohort of the Thirtieth Legion -- the Ulpia Victrix .
Did you sling that bullet ? ' '
I do .
I be use Dan 's catapult , ' say Una .
` Catapults ! '
say he . '
I ought to know something about them .
Show me ! '
He leap the rough fence with a rattle of spear , shield , and armour , and hoist himself into Volaterrae as quickly a a shadow . '
A sling on a forked stick .
I understand ! '
he cry , and pull at the elastic .
` But what wonderful beast yield this stretch leather ? '
` It 's laccy -- elastic .
You put the bullet into that loop , and then you pull hard . '
The man pull , and hit himself square on his thumb-nail .
` Each to his own weapon , ' he say gravely , hand it back . '
I be well with the big machine , little maiden .
But it 's a pretty toy .
A wolf would laugh at it .
Are n't you afraid of wolf ? '
` There be n't any , ' say Una .
` Never believe it !
A wolf 's like a Winged Hat .
He come when he be n't expect .
Do n't they hunt wolf here ? '
` We do n't hunt , ' say Una , remember what she have hear from grown-ups .
` We preserve -- pheasant .
Do you know them ? ' '
I ought to , ' say the young man , smile again , and he imitate the cry of the cock-pheasant so perfectly that a bird answer out of the wood .
` What a big paint clucking fool be a pheasant ! '
he say .
` Just like some Romans . '
` But you 're a Roman yourself , be n't you ? '
say Una .
` Ye-es and no .
I 'm one of a good few thousand who have never see Rome except in a picture .
My people have live at Vectis for generation .
Vectis -- that island West yonder that you can see from so far in clear weather . '
` Do you mean the Isle of Wight ?
It lift up just before rain , and you see it from the Downs . '
` Very likely .
Our villa 's on the South edge of the Island , by the Broken Cliffs .
Most of it be three hundred year old , but the cow-stables , where our first ancestor live , must be a hundred year old .
Oh , quite that , because the founder of our family have his land give him by Agricola at the Settlement .
It 's not a bad little place for it size .
In spring-time violet grow down to the very beach .
I 've gather sea-weeds for myself and violet for my Mother many a time with our old nurse . '
` Was your nurse a -- a Romaness too ? '
` No , a Numidian .
Gods be good to her !
A dear , fat , brown thing with a tongue like a cowbell .
She be a free woman .
By the way , be you free , maiden ? '
` Oh , quite , ' say Una .
` At least , till tea-time ; and in summer our governess do n't say much if we 're late . '
The young man laugh again -- a proper understanding laugh . '
I see , ' say he .
` That account for your be in the wood .
We hide among the cliff . '
` Did you have a governess , then ? '
` Did we not ?
A Greek , too .
She have a way of clutch her dress when she hunt u among the gorse-bushes that make u laugh .
Then she 'd say she 'd get u whip .
She never do , though , bless her !
Aglaia be a thorough sportswoman , for all her learning . '
` But what lesson do you do -- when -- when you be little ? '
` Ancient history , the Classics , arithmetic and so on , ' he answer .
` My sister and I be thick-heads , but my two brother -LRB- I 'm the middle one -RRB- like those thing , and , of course , Mother be clever enough for any six .
She be nearly as tall a I be , and she look like the new statue on the Western Road -- the Demeter of the Baskets , you know .
And funny !
Roma Dea !
How Mother could make u laugh ! '
` What at ? '
` Little joke and saying that every family have .
Do n't you know ? ' '
I know we have , but I do n't know other people have them too , ' say Una .
` Tell me about all your family , please . '
` Good family be very much alike .
Mother would sit spinning of evening while Aglaia read in her corner , and Father do account , and we four romp about the passage .
When our noise grow too loud the Pater would say , `` Less tumult !
Less tumult !
Have you never hear of a Father 's right over his child ?
He can slay them , my love -- slay them dead , and the Gods highly approve of the action ! ''
Then Mother would prim up her dear mouth over the wheel and answer : `` H 'm !
I 'm afraid there ca n't be much of the Roman Father about you ! ''
Then the Pater would roll up his account , and say , `` I 'll show you ! ''
and then -- then , he 'd be bad than any of u ! '
` Fathers can -- if they like , ' say Una , her eye dance .
` Did n't I say all good family be very much the same ? '
` What do you do in summer ? '
say Una .
` Play about , like u ? '
` Yes , and we visit our friend .
There be no wolf in Vectis .
We have many friend , and a many pony a we wish . '
` It must have be lovely , ' say Una . '
I hope it last for ever . '
` Not quite , little maid .
When I be about sixteen or seventeen , the Father felt gouty , and we all go to the Waters . '
` What water ? '
` At Aquae Solis .
Every one go there .
You ought to get your Father to take you some day . '
` But where ?
I do n't know , ' say Una .
The young man look astonish for a moment .
` Aquae Solis , ' he repeat .
` The best bath in Britain .
just as good , I 'm told , a Rome .
All the old glutton sit in hot water , and talk scandal and politics .
And the Generals come through the street with their guard behind them ; and the magistrate come in their chair with their stiff guard behind them ; and you meet fortune-tellers , and goldsmith , and merchant , and philosopher , and feather-sellers , and ultra-Roman Britons , and ultra-British Romans , and tame tribesman pretend to be civilise , and Jew lecturer , and -- oh , everybody interesting .
We young people , of course , take no interest in politics .
We have not the gout : there be many of our age like u .
We do not find life sad .
` But while we be enjoy ourselves without thinking , my sister meet the son of a magistrate in the West -- and a year afterwards she be marry to him .
My young brother , who be always interested in plant and root , meet the First Doctor of a Legion from the City of the Legions , and he decide that he would be an Army doctor .
I do not think it be a profession for a well-born man , but then -- I 'm not my brother .
He go to Rome to study medicine , and now he 's First Doctor of a Legion in Egypt -- at Antinoe , I think , but I have not hear from him for some time .
` My eldest brother come across a Greek philosopher , and tell my Father that he intend to settle down on the estate a a farmer and a philosopher .
You see , ' -- the young man 's eye twinkle -- ` his philosopher be a long-haired one ! ' '
I think philosopher be bald , ' say Una .
` Not all .
She be very pretty .
I do n't blame him .
Nothing could have suit me good than my eldest brother 's do this , for I be only too keen to join the Army .
I have always fear I should have to stay at home and look after the estate while my brother take this . '
He rap on his great glistening shield that never seem to be in his way .
` So we be well content -- we young people -- and we ride back to Clausentum along the Wood Road very quietly .
But when we reach home , Aglaia , our governess , saw what have come to u .
I remember her at the door , the torch over her head , watch u climb the cliff-path from the boat .
`` Aie !
Aie ! ''
she say .
`` Children you go away .
Men and a woman you return ! ''
Then she kiss Mother , and Mother wept .
Thus our visit to the Waters settle our fate for each of u , Maiden . '
He rise to his foot and listen , lean on the shield-rim . '
I think that 's Dan -- my brother , ' say Una .
` Yes ; and the Faun be with him , ' he reply , a Dan with Puck stumble through the copse .
` We should have come sooner , ' Puck call , ` but the beauty of your native tongue , O Parnesius , have enthral this young citizen . '
Parnesius look bewilder , even when Una explain .
` Dan say the plural of `` dominus '' be `` domino '' , and when Miss Blake say it be n't he say he suppose it be `` backgammon '' , and so he have to write it out twice -- for cheek , you know . '
Dan have climb into Volaterrae , hot and panting .
` I 've run nearly all the way , ' he gasp , ` and then Puck meet me .
How do you do , Sir ? ' '
I be in good health , ' Parnesius answer .
` See !
I have try to bend the bow of Ulysses , but -- ' He hold up his thumb .
` I 'm sorry .
You must have pull off too soon , ' say Dan .
` But Puck say you be tell Una a story . '
` Continue , O Parnesius , ' say Puck , who have perch himself on a dead branch above them . '
I will be chorus .
Has he puzzle you much , Una ? '
` Not a bit , except -- I do n't know where Ak -- Ak something be , ' she answer .
` Oh , Aquae Solis .
That 's Bath , where the bun come from .
Let the hero tell his own tale . '
Parnesius pretend to thrust his spear at Puck 's leg , but Puck reach down , caught at the horse-tail plume , and pull off the tall helmet .
` Thanks , jester , ' say Parnesius , shake his curly dark head .
` That be cool .
Now hang it up for me ... ' I be tell your sister how I join the Army , ' he say to Dan .
` Did you have to pass an Exam ? '
Dan ask eagerly .
` No .
I go to my Father , and say I should like to enter the Dacian Horse -LRB- I have see some at Aquae Solis -RRB- ; but he say I have well begin service in a regular Legion from Rome .
Now , like many of our youngster , I be not too fond of anything Roman .
The Roman-born officer and magistrate look down on u British-born a though we be barbarian .
I tell my Father so . '
`` I know they do , '' he say ; `` but remember , after all , we be the people of the Old Stock , and our duty be to the Empire . '' '
`` To which Empire ? ''
I ask .
`` We split the Eagle before I be bear . '' '
`` What thieve ' talk be that ? ''
say my Father .
He hat slang . '
`` Well , sir , '' I say , `` we 've one Emperor in Rome , and I do n't know how many Emperors the outlying Provinces have set up from time to time .
Which be I to follow ? '' '
`` Gratian , '' say he .
`` At least he 's a sportsman . '' '
`` He 's all that , '' I say .
`` Has n't he turn himself into a raw-beef-eating Scythian ? '' '
`` Where do you hear of it ? ''
say the Pater . '
`` At Aquae Solis , '' I say .
It be perfectly true .
This precious Emperor Gratian of ours have a bodyguard of fur-cloaked Scythians , and he be so crazy about them that he dress like them .
In Rome of all place in the world !
It be as bad a if my own Father have paint himself blue ! '
`` No matter for the clothes , '' say the Pater .
`` They be only the fringe of the trouble .
It begin before your time or mine .
Rome have forsake her Gods , and must be punish .
The great war with the Painted People break out in the very year the temple of our Gods be destroy .
We beat the Painted People in the very year our temple be rebuild .
Go back far still . ''
... He go back to the time of Diocletian ; and to listen to him you would have think Eternal Rome herself be on the edge of destruction , just because a few people have become a little large-minded . '
I know nothing about it .
Aglaia never teach u the history of our own country .
She be so full of her ancient Greeks . '
`` There be no hope for Rome , '' say the Pater , at last .
`` She have forsake her Gods , but if the Gods forgive u here , we may save Britain .
To do that , we must keep the Painted People back .
Therefore , I tell you , Parnesius , a a Father , that if your heart be set on service , your place be among men on the Wall -- and not with woman among the city . '' '
` What Wall ? '
ask Dan and Una at once .
` Father mean the one we call Hadrian 's Wall .
I 'll tell you about it later .
It be build long ago , across North Britain , to keep out the Painted People -- Picts , you call them .
Father have fight in the great Pict War that last more than twenty year , and he know what fight meant .
Theodosius , one of our great Generals , have chase the little beast back far into the North before I be bear .
Down at Vectis , of course , we never trouble our head about them .
But when my Father speak a he do , I kiss his hand , and wait for order .
We British-born Romans know what be due to our parent . '
` If I kiss my Father 's hand , he 'd laugh , ' say Dan .
` Customs change ; but if you do not obey your Father , the Gods remember it .
You may be quite sure of that .
` After our talk , see I be in earnest , the Pater send me over to Clausentum to learn my foot-drill in a barrack full of foreign auxiliary -- a unwashed and unshaved a mob of mixed barbarian a ever scrub a breastplate .
It be your stick in their stomach and your shield in their face to push them into any sort of formation .
When I have learn my work the Instructor give me a handful -- and they be a handful !
-- of Gauls and Iberians to polish up till they be send to their station up-country .
I do my best , and one night a villa in the suburb catch fire , and I have my handful out and at work before any of the other troop .
I notice a quiet-looking man on the lawn , lean on a stick .
He watch u pass bucket from the pond , and at last he say to me : `` Who be you ? '' '
`` A probationer , wait for a command , '' I answer .
I do n't know who he be from Deucalion ! '
`` Born in Britain ? ''
he say . '
`` Yes , if you be bear in Spain , '' I say , for he neigh his word like an Iberian mule . '
`` And what might you call yourself when you be at home ? ''
he say , laugh . '
`` That depend , '' I answer ; `` sometimes one thing and sometimes another .
But now I 'm busy . ''
` He say no more till we have save the family god -LRB- they be respectable householder -RRB- , and then he grunt across the laurel : `` Listen , young sometimes-one-thing-and-sometimes-another .
In future call yourself Centurion of the Seventh Cohort of the Thirtieth , the Ulpia Victrix .
That will help me to remember you .
Your Father and a few other people call me Maximus . ''
` He toss me the polished stick he be lean on , and go away .
You might have knock me down with it ! '
` Who be he ? '
say Dan .
` Maximus himself , our great General !
The General of Britain who have be Theodosius 's right hand in the Pict War !
Not only have he give me my Centurion 's stick direct , but three step in a good Legion a well !
A new man generally begin in the Tenth Cohort of his Legion , and work up . '
` And be you please ? '
say Una .
` Very .
I think Maximus have choose me for my good look and fine style in marching , but , when I go home , the Pater tell me he have serve under Maximus in the great Pict War , and have ask him to befriend me . ' '
A child you be ! '
say Puck , from above . '
I be , ' say Parnesius .
` Do n't begrudge it me , Faun .
Afterwards -- the Gods know I put aside the game ! '
And Puck nod , brown chin on brown hand , his big eye still .
` The night before I leave we sacrifice to our ancestor -- the usual little Home Sacrifice -- but I never pray so earnestly to all the Good Shades , and then I go with my Father by boat to Regnum , and across the chalk eastward to Anderida yonder . '
` Regnum ?
Anderida ? '
The child turn their face to Puck .
` Regnum 's Chichester , ' he say , point towards Cherry Clack , ` and ' -- he throw his arm South behind him -- ` Anderida 's Pevensey . '
` Pevensey again ! '
say Dan .
` Where Weland land ? '
` Weland and a few others , ' say Puck .
` Pevensey be n't young -- even compare to me ! '
` The headquarters of the Thirtieth lay at Anderida in summer , but my own Cohort , the Seventh , be on the Wall up North .
Maximus be inspect Auxiliaries -- the Abulci , I think -- at Anderida , and we stay with him , for he and my Father be very old friend .
I be only there ten day when I be order to go up with thirty men to my Cohort . '
He laugh merrily . '
A man never forget his first march .
I be happy than any Emperor when I lead my handful through the North Gate of the Camp , and we salute the guard and the Altar of Victory there . '
` How ?
How ? '
say Dan and Una .
Parnesius smile , and stand up , flash in his armour .
` So ! '
say he ; and he move slowly through the beautiful movement of the Roman Salute , that end with a hollow clang of the shield come into it place between the shoulder .
` Hai ! '
say Puck .
` That set one thinking ! '
` We go out fully arm , ' say Parnesius , sit down ; ` but as soon a the road enter the Great Forest , my men expect the pack-horses to hang their shield on .
`` No ! ''
I say ; `` you can dress like woman in Anderida , but while you 're with me you will carry your own weapon and armour . '' '
`` But it 's hot , '' say one of them , `` and we have n't a doctor .
Suppose we get sunstroke , or a fever ? '' '
`` Then die , '' I say , `` and a good riddance to Rome !
Up shield -- up spear , and tighten your foot-wear ! '' '
`` Do n't think yourself Emperor of Britain already , '' a fellow shout .
I knock him over with the butt of my spear , and explain to these Roman-born Romans that , if there be any further trouble , we should go on with one man short .
And , by the Light of the Sun , I mean it too !
My raw Gauls at Clausentum have never treat me so .
` Then , quietly a a cloud , Maximus ride out of the fern -LRB- my Father behind him -RRB- , and rein up across the road .
He wear the Purple , a though he be already Emperor ; his legging be of white buckskin lace with gold .
` My men drop like -- like partridge .
` He say nothing for some time , only look , with his eye pucker .
Then he crook his forefinger , and my men walk -- crawl , I mean -- to one side . '
`` Stand in the sun , child , '' he say , and they form up on the hard road . '
`` What would you have do , '' he say to me , `` if I have not be here ? '' '
`` I should have kill that man , '' I answer . '
`` Kill him now , '' he say .
`` He will not move a limb . '' '
`` No , '' I say .
`` You 've take my men out of my command .
I should only be your butcher if I kill him now . ''
Do you see what I mean ? '
Parnesius turn to Dan .
` Yes , ' say Dan .
` It would n't have be fair , somehow . '
` That be what I think , ' say Parnesius .
` But Maximus frown .
`` You 'll never be an Emperor , '' he say .
`` Not even a General will you be . '' '
I be silent , but my Father seem pleased . '
`` I come here to see the last of you , '' he say . '
`` You have see it , '' say Maximus .
`` I shall never need your son any more .
He will live and he will die an officer of a Legion -- and he might have be Prefect of one of my Provinces .
Now eat and drink with u , '' he say .
`` Your men will wait till you have finish . ''
` My miserable thirty stood like wine-skins glisten in the hot sun , and Maximus lead u to where his people have set a meal .
Himself he mix the wine . '
`` A year from now , '' he say , `` you will remember that you have sit with the Emperor of Britain -- and Gaul . '' '
`` Yes , '' say the Pater , `` you can drive two mule -- Gaul and Britain . '' '
`` Five year hence you will remember that you have drink '' -- he pass me the cup and there be blue borage in it -- `` with the Emperor of Rome ! '' '
`` No ; you ca n't drive three mule .
They will tear you in piece , '' say my Father . '
`` And you on the Wall , among the heather , will weep because your notion of justice be more to you than the favour of the Emperor of Rome . '' '
I sit quite still .
One do not answer a General who wear the Purple . '
`` I be not angry with you , '' he go on ; `` I owe too much to your Father -- '' ' `` You owe me nothing but advice that you never take , '' say the Pater . ' ''
-- to be unjust to any of your family .
Indeed , I say you may make a good Tribune , but , so far a I be concerned , on the Wall you will live , and on the Wall you will die , '' say Maximus . '
`` Very like , '' say my Father .
`` But we shall have the Picts and their friend break through before long .
You can not move all troop out of Britain to make you Emperor , and expect the North to sit quiet . '' '
`` I follow my destiny , '' say Maximus . '
`` Follow it , then , '' say my Father , pull up a fern root ; `` and die a Theodosius die . '' '
`` Ah ! ''
say Maximus .
`` My old General be kill because he serve the Empire too well .
I may be kill , but not for that reason , '' and he smile a little pale grey smile that make my blood run cold . '
`` Then I have well follow my destiny , '' I say , `` and take my men to the Wall . ''
` He look at me a long time , and bow his head slant like a Spaniard .
`` Follow it , boy , '' he say .
That be all .
I be only too glad to get away , though I have many message for home .
I find my men stand a they have be put -- they have not even shift their foot in the dust , and off I march , still feel that terrific smile like an east wind up my back .
I never halt them till sunset , and ' -- he turn about and look at Pook 's Hill below him -- ` then I halt yonder . '
He point to the broken , bracken-covered shoulder of the Forge Hill behind old Hobden 's cottage .
` There ?
Why , that 's only the old Forge -- where they make iron once , ' say Dan .
` Very good stuff it be too , ' say Parnesius calmly .
` We mend three shoulder-straps here and have a spear-head riveted .
The Forge be rent from the Government by a one-eyed smith from Carthage .
I remember we call him Cyclops .
He sell me a beaver-skin rug for my sister 's room . '
` But it could n't have be here , ' Dan insist .
` But it be !
From the Altar of Victory at Anderida to the First Forge in the Forest here be twelve mile seven hundred pace .
It be all in the Road Book .
A man do n't forget his first march .
I think I could tell you every station between this and -- ' He lean forward , but his eye be catch by the setting sun .
It have come down to the top of Cherry Clack Hill , and the light pour in between the tree trunk so that you could see red and gold and black deep into the heart of Far Wood ; and Parnesius in his armour shone a though he have be afire .
` Wait ! '
he say , lift a hand , and the sunlight jinked on his glass bracelet .
` Wait !
I pray to Mithras ! '
He rise and stretch his arm westward , with deep , splendid-sounding word .
Then Puck begin to sing too , in a voice like bell toll , and a he sing he slip from Volaterrae to the ground , and beckon the child to follow .
They obey ; it seem a though the voice be push them along ; and through the goldy-brown light on the beech leave they walk , while Puck between them chant something like this : ` Cur mundus militat sub vana gloria Cujus prosperitas est transitoria ?
Tam cito labitur ejus potentia Quam vas figuli qu sunt fragilia . '
They find themselves at the little locked gate of the wood .
` Quo Csar abiit celsus imperio ?
Vel Dives splendidus totus in prandio ?
Dic ubi Tullius -- ' Still sing , he take Dan 's hand and wheel him round to face Una a she come out of the gate .
It shut behind her , at the same time a Puck throw the memory-magicking Oak , Ash and Thorn leave over their head .
` Well , you be jolly late , ' say Una .
` Could n't you get away before ? ' '
I do , ' say Dan . '
I get away in lot of time , but -- but I do n't know it be so late .
Where 've you be ? '
` In Volaterrae -- wait for you . '
` Sorry , ' say Dan .
` It be all that beastly Latin . '
A BRITISH-ROMAN SONG -LRB- A.D. 406 -RRB- My father 's father saw it not , And I , belike , shall never come , To look on that so-holy spot -- The very Rome -- Crowned by all Time , all Art , all Might , The equal work of Gods and Man , City beneath whose old height -- The Race begin !
Soon to send forth again a brood , Unshakeable , we pray , that cling , To Rome 's thrice-hammered hardihood -- In arduous thing .
Strong heart with triple armour bound , Beat strongly , for thy life-blood run , Age after Age , the Empire round -- In u thy Sons , Who , distant from the Seven Hills , Loving and serve much , require Thee , -- thee to guard ` gainst home-born ill The Imperial Fire !
ON THE GREAT WALL ` When I leave Rome for Lalage 's sake By the Legions ' Road to Rimini , She vow her heart be mine to take With me and my shield to Rimini -- -LRB- Till the Eagles fly from Rimini ! -RRB-
And I 've tramp Britain , and I 've tramp Gaul , And the Pontic shore where the snow-flakes fall As white a the neck of Lalage -- -LRB- As cold a the heart of Lalage ! -RRB-
And I 've lose Britain , and I 've lose Gaul , ' -LRB- the voice seem very cheerful about it -RRB- , ` And I 've lose Rome , and , bad of all , I 've lose Lalage ! '
They be stand by the gate to Far Wood when they hear this song .
Without a word they hurry to their private gap and wriggle through the hedge almost atop of a jay that be feed from Puck 's hand .
` Gently ! '
say Puck .
` What be you look for ? '
` Parnesius , of course , ' Dan answer .
` We 've only just remember yesterday .
It be n't fair . '
Puck chuckle a he rise .
` I 'm sorry , but child who spend the afternoon with me and a Roman Centurion need a little settle dose of Magic before they go to tea with their governess .
Oh , Parnesius ! '
he call .
` Here , Faun ! '
come the answer from Volaterrae .
They could see the shimmer of bronze armour in the beech crotch , and the friendly flash of the great shield uplift . '
I have drive out the Britons . '
Parnesius laugh like a boy . '
I occupy their high fort .
But Rome be merciful !
You may come up . '
And up they three all scramble .
` What be the song you be sing just now ? '
say Una , as soon a she have settle herself .
` That ?
Oh , Rimini .
It 's one of the tune that be always be bear somewhere in the Empire .
They run like a pestilence for six month or a year , till another one please the Legions , and then they march to that . '
` Tell them about the marching , Parnesius .
Few people nowadays walk from end to end of this country , ' say Puck .
` The great their loss .
I know nothing well than the Long March when your foot be harden .
You begin after the mist have rise , and you end , perhaps , an hour after sundown . '
` And what do you have to eat ? '
Dan ask promptly .
` Fat bacon , bean , and bread , and whatever wine happen to be in the rest-houses .
But soldier be born grumbler .
Their very first day out , my men complain of our water-ground British corn .
They say it be n't so filling a the rough stuff that be ground in the Roman ox-mills .
However , they have to fetch and eat it . '
` Fetch it ?
Where from ? '
say Una .
` From that newly invent water-mill below the Forge . '
` That 's Forge Mill -- our Mill ! '
Una look at Puck .
` Yes ; yours , ' Puck put in .
` How old do you think it be ? ' '
I do n't know .
Did n't Sir Richard Dalyngridge talk about it ? '
` He do , and it be old in his day , ' Puck answer .
` Hundreds of year old . '
` It be new in mine , ' say Parnesius .
` My men look at the flour in their helmet a though it have be a nest of adder .
They do it to try my patience .
But I -- address them , and we become friend .
To tell the truth , they teach me the Roman Step .
You see , I 'd only serve with quick-marching Auxiliaries .
A Legion 's pace be altogether different .
It be a long , slow stride , that never vary from sunrise to sunset .
`` Rome 's Race -- Rome 's Pace , '' a the proverb say .
Twenty-four mile in eight hour , neither more nor less .
Head and spear up , shield on your back , cuirass-collar open one hand 's breadth -- and that 's how you take the Eagles through Britain . '
` And do you meet any adventure ? '
say Dan .
` There be no adventure South the Wall , ' say Parnesius .
` The bad thing that happen me be have to appear before a magistrate up North , where a wandering philosopher have jeer at the Eagles .
I be able to show that the old man have deliberately block our road ; and the magistrate tell him , out of his own Book , I believe , that , whatever his Gods might be , he should pay proper respect to Csar . '
` What do you do ? '
say Dan .
` Went on .
Why should I care for such thing , my business be to reach my station ?
It take me twenty day .
` Of course , the farther North you go the emptier be the road .
At last you fetch clear of the forest and climb bare hill , where wolf howl in the ruin of our city that have be .
No more pretty girl ; no more jolly magistrate who know your Father when he be young , and invite you to stay with them ; no news at the temple and way-stations except bad news of wild beast .
There 's where you meet hunter , and trapper for the Circuses , prod along chain bear and muzzle wolf .
Your pony shy at them , and your men laugh .
` The house change from garden villa to shut fort with watch-towers of grey stone , and great stone-walled sheepfold , guard by armed Britons of the North Shore .
In the naked hill beyond the naked house , where the shadow of the clouds play like cavalry charging , you see puff of black smoke from the mine .
The hard road go on and on -- and the wind sings through your helmet-plume -- past altar to Legions and Generals forget , and broken statue of Gods and Heroes , and thousand of graf where the mountain fox and hare peep at you .
Red-hot in summer , freezing in winter , be that big , purple heather country of broken stone .
` Just when you think you be at the world 's end , you see a smoke from East to West as far a the eye can turn , and then , under it , also as far a the eye can stretch , house and temple , shop and theatre , barrack and granary , trickle along like dice behind -- always behind -- one long , low , rise and fall , and hiding and show line of tower .
And that be the Wall ! '
` Ah ! '
say the child , take breath .
` You may well , ' say Parnesius .
` Old men who have follow the Eagles since boyhood say nothing in the Empire be more wonderful than first sight of the Wall ! '
` Is it just a Wall ?
Like the one round the kitchen-garden ? '
say Dan .
` No , no !
It be the Wall .
Along the top be tower with guard-houses , small tower , between .
Even on the narrow part of it three men with shield can walk abreast , from guard-house to guard-house .
A little curtain wall , no high than a man 's neck , run along the top of the thick wall , so that from a distance you see the helmet of the sentry slide back and forth like bead .
Thirty foot high be the Wall , and on the Picts ' side , the North , be a ditch , strewn with blade of old sword and spear-heads set in wood , and tyre of wheel join by chain .
The Little People come there to steal iron for their arrow-heads .
` But the Wall itself be not more wonderful than the town behind it .
Long ago there be great rampart and ditch on the South side , and no one be allow to build there .
Now the rampart be partly pull down and build over , from end to end of the Wall ; make a thin town eighty mile long .
Think of it !
One roaring , rioting , cock-fighting , wolf-baiting , horse-racing town , from Ituna on the West to Segedunum on the cold eastern beach !
On one side heather , wood and ruin where Picts hide , and on the other , a vast town -- long like a snake , and wicked like a snake .
Yes , a snake basking beside a warm wall !
` My Cohort , I be tell , lay at Hunno , where the Great North Road run through the Wall into the Province of Valentia . '
Parnesius laugh scornfully .
` The Province of Valentia !
We follow the road , therefore , into Hunno town , and stand astonish .
The place be a fair -- a fair of people from every corner of the Empire .
Some be racing horse : some sat in wine-shops : some watch dog bait bear , and many gather in a ditch to see cock fight .
A boy not much old than myself , but I could see he be an officer , rein up before me and ask what I want . '
`` My station , '' I say , and show him my shield . '
Parnesius hold up his broad shield with it three X 's like letter on a beer-cask . '
`` Lucky omen ! ''
say he .
`` Your Cohort 's the next tower to u , but they 're all at the cock-fight .
This be a happy place .
Come and wet the Eagles . ''
He mean to offer me a drink . '
`` When I 've hand over my men , '' I say .
I felt angry and ashamed . '
`` Oh , you 'll soon outgrow that sort of nonsense , '' he answer .
`` But do n't let me interfere with your hope .
Go on to the Statue of Roma Dea .
You ca n't miss it .
The main road into Valentia ! ''
and he laugh and ride off .
I could see the statue not a quarter of a mile away , and there I go .
At some time or other the Great North Road run under it into Valentia ; but the far end have be block up because of the Picts , and on the plaster a man have scratch , `` Finish ! ''
It be like march into a cave .
We ground spear together , my little thirty , and it echo in the barrel of the arch , but none come .
There be a door at one side paint with our number .
We prowl in , and I find a cook asleep , and order him to give u food .
Then I climb to the top of the Wall , and look out over the Pict country , and I -- think , ' say Parnesius .
` The bricked-up arch with `` Finish ! ''
on the plaster be what shake me , for I be not much more than a boy . '
` What a shame ! '
say Una .
` But do you feel happy after you 'd have a good -- ' Dan stop her with a nudge .
` Happy ? '
say Parnesius .
` When the men of the Cohort I be to command come back unhelmeted from the cock-fight , their bird under their arm , and ask me who I be ?
No , I be not happy ; but I make my new Cohort unhappy too ... I write my Mother I be happy , but , oh , my friend ' -- he stretch arm over bare knee -- ' I would not wish my bad enemy to suffer a I suffer through my first month on the Wall .
Remember this : among the officer be scarcely one , except myself -LRB- and I think I have lose the favour of Maximus , my General -RRB- , scarcely one who have not do something of wrong or folly .
Either he have kill a man , or take money , or insult the magistrate , or blaspheme the Gods , and so have be send to the Wall a a hiding-place from shame or fear .
And the men be a the officer .
Remember , also , that the Wall be man by every breed and race in the Empire .
No two tower speak the same tongue , or worship the same Gods .
In one thing only we be all equal .
No matter what arm we have use before we come to the Wall , on the Wall we be all archer , like the Scythians .
The Pict can not run away from the arrow , or crawl under it .
He be a bowman himself .
He know ! ' '
I suppose you be fight Picts all the time , ' say Dan .
` Picts seldom fight .
I never saw a fighting Pict for half a year .
The tame Picts tell u they have all go North . '
` What be a tame Pict ? '
say Dan . '
A Pict -- there be many such -- who speak a few word of our tongue , and slip across the Wall to sell pony and wolf-hounds .
Without a horse and a dog , and a friend , man would perish .
The Gods give me all three , and there be no gift like friendship .
Remember this ' -- Parnesius turn to Dan -- ` when you become a young man .
For your fate will turn on the first true friend you make . '
` He mean , ' say Puck , grinning , ` that if you try to make yourself a decent chap when you 're young , you 'll make rather decent friend when you grow up .
If you 're a beast , you 'll have beastly friend .
Listen to the Pious Parnesius on Friendship ! ' '
I be not pious , ' Parnesius answer , ` but I know what goodness mean ; and my friend , though he be without hope , be ten thousand time well than I . Stop laughing , Faun ! '
` Oh , Youth Eternal and All-believing , ' cried Puck , a he rock on the branch above .
` Tell them about your Pertinax . '
` He be that friend the Gods send me -- the boy who speak to me when I first come .
Little old than myself , command the Augusta Victoria Cohort on the tower next to u and the Numidians .
In virtue he be far my superior . '
` Then why be he on the Wall ? '
Una ask , quickly .
` They 'd all do something bad .
You say so yourself . '
` He be the nephew , his Father have die , of a great rich man in Gaul who be not always kind to his Mother .
When Pertinax grow up , he discover this , and so his uncle ship him off , by trickery and force , to the Wall .
We come to know each other at a ceremony in our Temple -- in the dark .
It be the Bull-Killing , ' Parnesius explain to Puck . '
I see , say Puck , and turn to the child .
` That 's something you would n't quite understand .
Parnesius mean he meet Pertinax in church . '
` Yes -- in the Cave we first meet , and we be both raise to the Degree of Gryphons together . '
Parnesius lift his hand towards his neck for an instant .
` He have be on the Wall two year , and know the Picts well .
He teach me first how to take Heather . '
` What 's that ? '
say Dan .
` Going out hunt in the Pict country with a tame Pict .
You be quite safe so long a you be his guest , and wear a sprig of heather where it can be see .
If you go alone you would surely be kill , if you be not smother first in the bog .
Only the Picts know their way about those black and hidden bog .
Old Allo , the one-eyed , wither little Pict from whom we buy our pony , be our special friend .
At first we go only to escape from the terrible town , and to talk together about our home .
Then he show u how to hunt wolf and those great red deer with horn like Jewish candlestick .
The Roman-born officer rather look down on u for do this , but we prefer the heather to their amusement .
Believe me , ' Parnesius turn again to Dan , ' a boy be safe from all thing that really harm when he be astride a pony or after a deer .
Do you remember , O Faun , ' -- he turn to Puck -- ` the little altar I build to the Sylvan Pan by the pine-forest beyond the brook ? '
` Which ?
The stone one with the line from Xenophon ? '
say Puck , in quite a new voice .
` No !
What do I know of Xenophon ?
That be Pertinax -- after he have shoot his first mountain-hare with an arrow -- by chance !
Mine I make of round pebble , in memory of my first bear .
It take me one happy day to build . '
Parnesius face the child quickly .
` And that be how we live on the Wall for two year -- a little scuffling with the Picts , and a great deal of hunt with old Allo in the Pict country .
He call u his child sometimes , and we be fond of him and his barbarian , though we never let them paint u Pict fashion .
The mark endure till you die . '
` How 's it do ? '
say Dan .
` Anything like tattoo ? '
` They prick the skin till the blood run , and rub in coloured juice .
Allo be paint blue , green , and red from his forehead to his ankle .
He say it be part of his religion .
He tell u about his religion -LRB- Pertinax be always interested in such thing -RRB- , and a we come to know him well , he tell u what be happen in Britain behind the Wall .
Many thing take place behind u in those day .
And by the Light of the Sun , ' say Parnesius , earnestly , ` there be not much that those little people do not know !
He tell me when Maximus cross over to Gaul , after he have make himself Emperor of Britain , and what troop and emigrant he have take with him .
We do not get the news on the Wall till fifteen day later .
He tell me what troop Maximus be take out of Britain every month to help him to conquer Gaul ; and I always find the number be a he say .
Wonderful !
And I tell another strange thing ! '
He join his hand across his knee , and lean his head on the curve of the shield behind him .
` Late in the summer , when the first frost begin and the Picts kill their bee , we three ride out after wolf with some new hound .
Rutilianus , our General , have give u ten day ' leave , and we have push beyond the Second Wall -- beyond the Province of Valentia -- into the high hill , where there be not even any of old Rome 's ruin .
We kill a she-wolf before noon , and while Allo be skin her he look up and say to me , `` When you be Captain of the Wall , my child , you wo n't be able to do this any more ! '' '
I might as well have be make Prefect of Lower Gaul , so I laugh and say , `` Wait till I be Captain . '' '
`` No , do n't wait , '' say Allo .
`` Take my advice and go home -- both of you . '' '
`` We have no home , '' say Pertinax .
`` You know that as well a we do .
We 're finish men -- thumb down against both of u .
Only men without hope would risk their neck on your pony . ''
The old man laugh one of those short Pict laugh -- like a fox bark on a frosty night .
`` I 'm fond of you two , '' he say .
`` Besides , I 've teach you what little you know about hunting .
Take my advice and go home . '' '
`` We ca n't , '' I say .
`` I 'm out of favour with my General , for one thing ; and for another , Pertinax have an uncle . '' '
`` I do n't know about his uncle , '' say Allo , `` but the trouble with you , Parnesius , be that your General think well of you . '' '
`` Roma Dea ! ''
say Pertinax , sit up .
`` What can you guess what Maximus think , you old horse-coper ? ''
` Just then -LRB- you know how near the brute creep when one be eat ? -RRB-
a great dog-wolf jump out behind u , and away our rested hound tore after him , with u at their tail .
He run u far out of any country we 'd ever hear of , straight a an arrow till sunset , towards the sunset .
We come at last to long cape stretch into wind water , and on a grey beach below u we saw ship draw up .
Forty-seven we count -- not Roman galley but the raven-winged ship from the North where Rome do not rule .
Men move in the ship , and the sun flash on their helmet -- wing helmet of the red-haired men from the North where Rome do not rule .
We watch , and we count , and we wonder , for though we have hear rumour concern these Winged Hats , a the Picts call them , never before have we look upon them . '
`` Come away !
come away ! ''
say Allo .
`` My Heather wo n't protect you here .
We shall all be kill ! ''
His leg tremble like his voice .
Back we go -- back across the heather under the moon , till it be nearly morning , and our poor beast stumble on some ruin .
` When we wake , very stiff and cold , Allo be mix the meal and water .
One do not light fire in the Pict country except near a village .
The little men be always signal to each other with smoke , and a strange smoke bring them out buzz like bee .
They can sting , too ! '
`` What we saw last night be a trading-station , '' say Allo .
`` Nothing but a trading-station . '' '
`` I do not like lie on an empty stomach , '' say Pertinax .
`` I suppose '' -LRB- he have eye like an eagle 's -RRB- -- `` I suppose that be a trading-station also ? ''
He point to a smoke far off on a hill-top , ascend in what we call the Picts ' Call : -- Puff -- double-puff : double-puff -- puff !
They make it by raise and drop a wet hide on a fire . '
`` No , '' say Allo , push the platter back into the bag .
`` That be for you and me .
Your fate be fix .
Come . ''
` We come .
When one take Heather , one must obey one 's Pict -- but that wretched smoke be twenty mile distant , well over on the East coast , and the day be as hot a a bath . '
`` Whatever happen , '' say Allo , while our pony grunt along , `` I want you to remember me . '' '
`` I shall not forget , '' say Pertinax .
`` You have cheat me out of my breakfast . ''
`` What be a handful of crushed oat to a Roman ? ''
he say .
Then he laugh his laugh that be not a laugh .
`` What would you do if you be a handful of oat be crush between the upper and low stone of a mill ? '' '
`` I 'm Pertinax , not a riddle-guesser , '' say Pertinax . '
`` You 're a fool , '' say Allo .
`` Your Gods and my Gods be threaten by strange Gods , and all you can do be to laugh . '' '
`` Threatened men live long , '' I say . '
`` I pray the Gods that may be true , '' he say .
`` But I ask you again not to forget me . ''
` We climb the last hot hill and look out on the eastern sea , three or four mile off .
There be a small sailing-galley of the North Gaul pattern at anchor , her landing-plank down and her sail half up ; and below u , alone in a hollow , hold his pony , sit Maximus , Emperor of Britain !
He be dress like a hunter , and he lean on his little stick ; but I know that back as far a I could see it , and I tell Pertinax . '
`` You 're mad than Allo ! ''
he say .
`` It must be the sun ! ''
` Maximus never stir till we stand before him .
Then he look me up and down , and say : `` Hungry again ?
It seem to be my destiny to fee you whenever we meet .
I have food here .
Allo shall cook it . '' '
`` No , '' say Allo .
`` A Prince in his own land do not wait on wander Emperors .
I fee my two child without ask your leave . ''
He begin to blow up the ash . '
`` I be wrong , '' say Pertinax .
`` We be all mad .
Speak up , O Madman call Emperor ! ''
` Maximus smile his terrible tight-lipped smile , but two year on the Wall do not make a man afraid of mere look .
So I be not afraid . '
`` I mean you , Parnesius , to live and die a Centurion of the Wall , '' say Maximus .
`` But it seem from these , '' -- he fumble in his breast -- `` you can think as well a draw . ''
He pull out a roll of letter I have write to my people , full of drawing of Picts , and bear , and men I have meet on the Wall .
Mother and my sister always like my picture .
` He hand me one that I have call `` Maximus 's Soldiers '' .
It show a row of fat wine-skins , and our old Doctor of the Hunno hospital snuffing at them .
Each time that Maximus have take troop out of Britain to help him to conquer Gaul , he use to send the garrison more wine -- to keep them quiet , I suppose .
On the Wall , we always call a wine-skin a `` Maximus '' .
Oh , yes ; and I have draw them in Imperial helmet . '
`` Not long since , '' he go on , `` men 's name be send up to Csar for small joke than this . '' '
`` True , Csar , '' say Pertinax ; `` but you forget that be before I , your friend 's friend , become such a good spear-thrower . ''
` He do not actually point his hunting-spear at Maximus , but balance it on his palm -- so ! '
`` I be speak of time past , '' say Maximus , never flutter an eyelid .
`` Nowadays one be only too pleased to find boy who can think for themselves , and their friend . ''
He nod at Pertinax .
`` Your Father lent me the letter , Parnesius , so you run no risk from me . '' '
`` None whatever , '' say Pertinax , and rub the spear-point on his sleeve . '
`` I have be force to reduce the garrison in Britain , because I need troop in Gaul .
Now I come to take troop from the Wall itself , '' say he . '
`` I wish you joy of u , '' say Pertinax .
`` We 're the last sweeping of the Empire -- the men without hope .
Myself , I 'd sooner trust condemn criminal . '' '
`` You think so ? ''
he say , quite seriously .
`` But it will only be till I win Gaul .
One must always risk one 's life , or one 's soul , or one 's peace -- or some little thing . ''
` Allo pass round the fire with the sizzle deer 's meat .
He serve u two first . '
`` Ah ! ''
say Maximus , wait his turn .
`` I perceive you be in your own country .
Well , you deserve it .
They tell me you have quite a following among the Picts , Parnesius . '' '
`` I have hunt with them , '' I say .
`` Maybe I have a few friend among the Heather . '' '
`` He be the only armoured man of you all who understand u , '' say Allo , and he begin a long speech about our virtue , and how we have save one of his grandchild from a wolf the year before . '
` Had you ? '
say Una .
` Yes ; but that be neither here nor there .
The little green man orate like a -- like Cicero .
He make u out to be magnificent fellow .
Maximus never take his eye off our face . '
`` Enough , '' he say .
`` I have hear Allo on you .
I wish to hear you on the Picts . '' '
I tell him as much a I know , and Pertinax help me out .
There be never harm in a Pict if you but take the trouble to find out what he want .
Their real grievance against u come from our burn their heather .
The whole garrison of the Wall move out twice a year , and solemnly burn the heather for ten mile North .
Rutilianus , our General , call it clear the country .
The Picts , of course , scamper away , and all we do be to destroy their bee-bloom in the summer , and ruin their sheep-food in the spring . '
`` True , quite true , '' say Allo .
`` How can we make our holy heather-wine , if you burn our bee-pasture ? ''
` We talk long , Maximus ask keen question that show he know much and have think more about the Picts .
He say presently to me : `` If I give you the old Province of Valentia to govern , could you keep the Picts content till I win Gaul ?
Stand away , so that you do not see Allo 's face ; and speak your own thought . '' '
`` No , '' I say .
`` You can not remake that Province .
The Picts have be free too long . '' '
`` Leave them their village council , and let them furnish their own soldier , '' he say .
`` You , I be sure , would hold the rein very lightly . ''
`` Even then , no , '' I say .
`` At least not now .
They have be too oppress by u to trust anything with a Roman name for year and year . '' '
I hear old Allo behind me mutter : `` Good child ! '' '
`` Then what do you recommend , '' say Maximus , `` to keep the North quiet till I win Gaul ? '' '
