Green Gables be build at the furthest edge of his cleared land and there it be to this day , barely visible from the main road along which all the other Avonlea house be so sociably situate .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde do not call live in such a place LIVING at all .
`` It 's just STAYING , that 's what , '' she say a she step along the deep-rutted , grassy lane border with wild rise bush .
`` It 's no wonder Matthew and Marilla be both a little odd , live away back here by themselves .
Trees be n't much company , though dear know if they be there 'd be enough of them .
I 'd ruther look at people .
To be sure , they seem content enough ; but then , I suppose , they 're use to it .
A body can get use to anything , even to be hang , a the Irishman say . ''
With this Mrs. Rachel step out of the lane into the backyard of Green Gables .
Very green and neat and precise be that yard , set about on one side with great patriarchal willow and the other with prim Lombardies .
Not a stray stick nor stone be to be see , for Mrs. Rachel would have see it if there have be .
Privately she be of the opinion that Marilla Cuthbert sweep that yard over as often a she sweep her house .
One could have eat a meal off the ground without overbrimming the proverbial peck of dirt .
Mrs. Rachel rap smartly at the kitchen door and step in when bidden to do so .
The kitchen at Green Gables be a cheerful apartment -- or would have be cheerful if it have not be so painfully clean a to give it something of the appearance of an unused parlor .
Its window look east and west ; through the west one , look out on the back yard , come a flood of mellow June sunlight ; but the east one , whence you get a glimpse of the bloom white cherry-trees in the left orchard and nodding , slender birch down in the hollow by the brook , be green over by a tangle of vine .
Here sat Marilla Cuthbert , when she sit at all , always slightly distrustful of sunshine , which seem to her too dancing and irresponsible a thing for a world which be mean to be take seriously ; and here she sit now , knit , and the table behind her be lay for supper .
Mrs. Rachel , before she have fairly close the door , have take a mental note of everything that be on that table .
There be three plate lay , so that Marilla must be expect some one home with Matthew to tea ; but the dish be everyday dish and there be only crab-apple preserve and one kind of cake , so that the expect company could not be any particular company .
Yet what of Matthew 's white collar and the sorrel mare ?
Mrs. Rachel be get fairly dizzy with this unusual mystery about quiet , unmysterious Green Gables .
`` Good evening , Rachel , '' Marilla say briskly .
`` This be a real fine evening , be n't it ?
Wo n't you sit down ?
How be all your folk ? ''
Something that for lack of any other name might be call friendship exist and always have exist between Marilla Cuthbert and Mrs. Rachel , in spite of -- or perhaps because of -- their dissimilarity .
Marilla be a tall , thin woman , with angle and without curve ; her dark hair show some gray streak and be always twist up in a hard little knot behind with two wire hairpin stick aggressively through it .
She look like a woman of narrow experience and rigid conscience , which she be ; but there be a save something about her mouth which , if it have be ever so slightly develop , might have be consider indicative of a sense of humor .
`` We 're all pretty well , '' say Mrs. Rachel .
`` I be kind of afraid YOU be n't , though , when I saw Matthew start off today .
I think maybe he be go to the doctor 's . ''
Marilla 's lip twitch understandingly .
She have expect Mrs. Rachel up ; she have know that the sight of Matthew jaunt off so unaccountably would be too much for her neighbor 's curiosity .
`` Oh , no , I 'm quite well although I have a bad headache yesterday , '' she say .
`` Matthew go to Bright River .
We 're get a little boy from an orphan asylum in Nova Scotia and he 's come on the train tonight . ''
If Marilla have say that Matthew have go to Bright River to meet a kangaroo from Australia Mrs. Rachel could not have be more astonished .
She be actually stricken dumb for five second .
It be unsupposable that Marilla be make fun of her , but Mrs. Rachel be almost force to suppose it .
`` Are you in earnest , Marilla ? ''
she demand when voice return to her .
`` Yes , of course , '' say Marilla , a if get boy from orphan asylum in Nova Scotia be part of the usual spring work on any well-regulated Avonlea farm instead of be an unheard of innovation .
Mrs. Rachel felt that she have receive a severe mental jolt .
She think in exclamation point .
A boy !
Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert of all people adopt a boy !
From an orphan asylum !
Well , the world be certainly turn upside down !
She would be surprise at nothing after this !
Nothing !
`` What on earth put such a notion into your head ? ''
she demand disapprovingly .
This have be do without her advice be ask , and must perforce be disapprove .
`` Well , we 've be think about it for some time -- all winter in fact , '' return Marilla .
`` Mrs. Alexander Spencer be up here one day before Christmas and she say she be go to get a little girl from the asylum over in Hopeton in the spring .
Her cousin live there and Mrs. Spencer have visit here and know all about it .
So Matthew and I have talk it over off and on ever since .
We think we 'd get a boy .
Matthew be get up in year , you know -- he 's sixty -- and he be n't so spry a he once be .
His heart trouble him a good deal .
And you know how desperate hard it 's get to be to get hire help .
There 's never anybody to be have but those stupid , half-grown little French boy ; and as soon a you do get one broke into your way and taught something he 's up and off to the lobster cannery or the States .
At first Matthew suggest get a Home boy .
But I say ` no ' flat to that .
` They may be all right -- I 'm not say they 're not -- but no London street Arabs for me , ' I say .
` Give me a native born at least .
There 'll be a risk , no matter who we get .
But I 'll feel easier in my mind and sleep sounder at night if we get a born Canadian . '
So in the end we decide to ask Mrs. Spencer to pick u out one when she go over to get her little girl .
We hear last week she be go , so we send her word by Richard Spencer 's folk at Carmody to bring u a smart , likely boy of about ten or eleven .
We decide that would be the best age -- old enough to be of some use in do chore right off and young enough to be train up proper .
We mean to give him a good home and schooling .
We have a telegram from Mrs. Alexander Spencer today -- the mail-man brought it from the station -- say they be come on the five-thirty train tonight .
So Matthew go to Bright River to meet him .
Mrs. Spencer will drop him off there .
Of course she go on to White Sands station herself . ''
Mrs. Rachel pride herself on always speak her mind ; she proceed to speak it now , have adjust her mental attitude to this amazing piece of news .
`` Well , Marilla , I 'll just tell you plain that I think you 're do a mighty foolish thing -- a risky thing , that 's what .
You do n't know what you 're get .
You 're bring a strange child into your house and home and you do n't know a single thing about him nor what his disposition be like nor what sort of parent he have nor how he 's likely to turn out .
Why , it be only last week I read in the paper how a man and his wife up west of the Island take a boy out of an orphan asylum and he set fire to the house at night -- set it ON PURPOSE , Marilla -- and nearly burn them to a crisp in their bed .
And I know another case where an adopt boy use to suck the egg -- they could n't break him of it .
If you have ask my advice in the matter -- which you do n't do , Marilla -- I 'd have say for mercy 's sake not to think of such a thing , that 's what . ''
This Job 's comforting seem neither to offend nor to alarm Marilla .
She knit steadily on .
`` I do n't deny there 's something in what you say , Rachel .
I 've have some qualm myself .
But Matthew be terrible set on it .
I could see that , so I give in .
It 's so seldom Matthew set his mind on anything that when he do I always feel it 's my duty to give in .
And a for the risk , there 's risk in pretty near everything a body do in this world .
There 's risk in people 's have child of their own if it come to that -- they do n't always turn out well .
And then Nova Scotia be right close to the Island .
It be n't as if we be get him from England or the States .
He ca n't be much different from ourselves . ''
`` Well , I hope it will turn out all right , '' say Mrs. Rachel in a tone that plainly indicate her painful doubt .
`` Only do n't say I do n't warn you if he burn Green Gables down or put strychnine in the well -- I hear of a case over in New Brunswick where an orphan asylum child do that and the whole family die in fearful agony .
Only , it be a girl in that instance . ''
`` Well , we 're not get a girl , '' say Marilla , a if poison well be a purely feminine accomplishment and not to be dread in the case of a boy .
`` I 'd never dream of take a girl to bring up .
I wonder at Mrs. Alexander Spencer for do it .
But there , SHE would n't shrink from adopt a whole orphan asylum if she take it into her head . ''
Mrs. Rachel would have like to stay until Matthew come home with his import orphan .
But reflect that it would be a good two hour at least before his arrival she conclude to go up the road to Robert Bell 's and tell the news .
It would certainly make a sensation second to none , and Mrs. Rachel dearly love to make a sensation .
So she take herself away , somewhat to Marilla 's relief , for the latter felt her doubt and fear revive under the influence of Mrs. Rachel 's pessimism .
`` Well , of all thing that ever be or will be ! ''
ejaculate Mrs. Rachel when she be safely out in the lane .
`` It do really seem a if I must be dream .
Well , I 'm sorry for that poor young one and no mistake .
Matthew and Marilla do n't know anything about child and they 'll expect him to be wise and steady that his own grandfather , if so be 's he ever have a grandfather , which be doubtful .
It seem uncanny to think of a child at Green Gables somehow ; there 's never be one there , for Matthew and Marilla be grow up when the new house be build -- if they ever WERE child , which be hard to believe when one look at them .
I would n't be in that orphan 's shoe for anything .
My , but I pity him , that 's what . ''
So say Mrs. Rachel to the wild rise bush out of the fulness of her heart ; but if she could have see the child who be wait patiently at the Bright River station at that very moment her pity would have be still deep and more profound .
CHAPTER II .
Matthew Cuthbert be surprised Matthew Cuthbert and the sorrel mare jog comfortably over the eight mile to Bright River .
It be a pretty road , run along between snug farmstead , with now and again a bit of balsamy fir wood to drive through or a hollow where wild plum hang out their filmy bloom .
The air be sweet with the breath of many apple orchard and the meadow slop away in the distance to horizon mist of pearl and purple ; while `` The little bird sing a if it be The one day of summer in all the year . ''
Matthew enjoy the drive after his own fashion , except during the moment when he meet woman and have to nod to them -- for in Prince Edward island you be suppose to nod to all and sundry you meet on the road whether you know them or not .
Matthew dread all woman except Marilla and Mrs. Rachel ; he have an uncomfortable feeling that the mysterious creature be secretly laugh at him .
He may have be quite right in think so , for he be an odd-looking personage , with an ungainly figure and long iron-gray hair that touch his stoop shoulder , and a full , soft brown beard which he have wear ever since he be twenty .
In fact , he have look at twenty very much a he look at sixty , lack a little of the grayness .
When he reach Bright River there be no sign of any train ; he think he be too early , so he tie his horse in the yard of the small Bright River hotel and go over to the station house .
The long platform be almost desert ; the only living creature in sight be a girl who be sit on a pile of shingle at the extreme end .
Matthew , barely note that it WAS a girl , sidle past her as quickly a possible without look at her .
Had he look he could hardly have fail to notice the tense rigidity and expectation of her attitude and expression .
She be sit there wait for something or somebody and , since sit and wait be the only thing to do just then , she sit and wait with all her might and main .
Matthew encounter the stationmaster lock up the ticket office preparatory to go home for supper , and ask him if the five-thirty train would soon be along .
`` The five-thirty train have be in and go half an hour ago , '' answer that brisk official .
`` But there be a passenger drop off for you -- a little girl .
She 's sit out there on the shingle .
I ask her to go into the lady ' wait room , but she inform me gravely that she prefer to stay outside .
` There be more scope for imagination , ' she say .
She 's a case , I should say . ''
`` I 'm not expect a girl , '' say Matthew blankly .
`` It 's a boy I 've come for .
He should be here .
Mrs. Alexander Spencer be to bring him over from Nova Scotia for me . ''
The stationmaster whistle .
`` Guess there 's some mistake , '' he say .
`` Mrs. Spencer come off the train with that girl and give her into my charge .
Said you and your sister be adopt her from an orphan asylum and that you would be along for her presently .
That 's all I know about it -- and I have n't get any more orphan conceal hereabouts . ''
`` I do n't understand , '' say Matthew helplessly , wish that Marilla be at hand to cope with the situation .
`` Well , you 'd better question the girl , '' say the station-master carelessly .
`` I dare say she 'll be able to explain -- she 's get a tongue of her own , that 's certain .
Maybe they be out of boy of the brand you want . ''
He walk jauntily away , be hungry , and the unfortunate Matthew be leave to do that which be hard for him than beard a lion in it den -- walk up to a girl -- a strange girl -- an orphan girl -- and demand of her why she be n't a boy .
Matthew groan in spirit a he turn about and shuffle gently down the platform towards her .
She have be watch him ever since he have pass her and she have her eye on him now .
Matthew be not look at her and would not have see what she be really like if he have be , but an ordinary observer would have see this : A child of about eleven , garb in a very short , very tight , very ugly dress of yellowish-gray wincey .
She wear a faded brown sailor hat and beneath the hat , extend down her back , be two braid of very thick , decidedly red hair .
Her face be small , white and thin , also much freckle ; her mouth be large and so be her eye , which look green in some light and mood and gray in others .
So far , the ordinary observer ; an extraordinary observer might have see that the chin be very pointed and pronounce ; that the big eye be full of spirit and vivacity ; that the mouth be sweet-lipped and expressive ; that the forehead be broad and full ; in short , our discern extraordinary observer might have conclude that no commonplace soul inhabit the body of this stray woman-child of whom shy Matthew Cuthbert be so ludicrously afraid .
Matthew , however , be spar the ordeal of speak first , for as soon a she conclude that he be come to her she stand up , grasp with one thin brown hand the handle of a shabby , old-fashioned carpet-bag ; the other she hold out to him .
`` I suppose you be Mr. Matthew Cuthbert of Green Gables ? ''
she say in a peculiarly clear , sweet voice .
`` I 'm very glad to see you .
I be begin to be afraid you be n't come for me and I be imagine all the thing that might have happen to prevent you .
I have make up my mind that if you do n't come for me to-night I 'd go down the track to that big wild cherry-tree at the bend , and climb up into it to stay all night .
I would n't be a bit afraid , and it would be lovely to sleep in a wild cherry-tree all white with bloom in the moonshine , do n't you think ?
You could imagine you be dwell in marble hall , could n't you ?
And I be quite sure you would come for me in the morning , if you do n't to-night . ''
Matthew have take the scrawny little hand awkwardly in his ; then and there he decide what to do .
He could not tell this child with the glow eye that there have be a mistake ; he would take her home and let Marilla do that .
She could n't be leave at Bright River anyhow , no matter what mistake have be make , so all question and explanation might as well be defer until he be safely back at Green Gables .
`` I 'm sorry I be late , '' he say shyly .
`` Come along .
The horse be over in the yard .
Give me your bag . ''
`` Oh , I can carry it , '' the child respond cheerfully .
`` It be n't heavy .
I 've get all my worldly good in it , but it be n't heavy .
And if it be n't carry in just a certain way the handle pull out -- so I 'd well keep it because I know the exact knack of it .
It 's an extremely old carpet-bag .
Oh , I 'm very glad you 've come , even if it would have be nice to sleep in a wild cherry-tree .
We 've get to drive a long piece , have n't we ?
Mrs. Spencer say it be eight mile .
I 'm glad because I love drive .
Oh , it seem so wonderful that I 'm go to live with you and belong to you .
I 've never belong to anybody -- not really .
But the asylum be the bad .
I 've only be in it four month , but that be enough .
I do n't suppose you ever be an orphan in an asylum , so you ca n't possibly understand what it be like .
It 's bad than anything you could imagine .
Mrs. Spencer say it be wicked of me to talk like that , but I do n't mean to be wicked .
It 's so easy to be wicked without know it , be n't it ?
They be good , you know -- the asylum people .
But there be so little scope for the imagination in an asylum -- only just in the other orphan .
It be pretty interesting to imagine thing about them -- to imagine that perhaps the girl who sit next to you be really the daughter of a belt earl , who have be steal away from her parent in her infancy by a cruel nurse who die before she could confess .
I use to lie awake at night and imagine thing like that , because I do n't have time in the day .
I guess that 's why I 'm so thin -- I AM dreadful thin , ai n't I ?
There be n't a pick on my bone .
I do love to imagine I 'm nice and plump , with dimple in my elbow . ''
With this Matthew 's companion stop talk , partly because she be out of breath and partly because they have reach the buggy .
Not another word do she say until they have leave the village and be drive down a steep little hill , the road part of which have be cut so deeply into the soft soil , that the bank , fringe with bloom wild cherry-trees and slim white birch , be several foot above their head .
The child put out her hand and break off a branch of wild plum that brush against the side of the buggy .
`` Is n't that beautiful ?
What do that tree , lean out from the bank , all white and lacy , make you think of ? ''
she ask .
`` Well now , I dunno , '' say Matthew .
`` Why , a bride , of course -- a bride all in white with a lovely misty veil .
I 've never see one , but I can imagine what she would look like .
I do n't ever expect to be a bride myself .
I 'm so homely nobody will ever want to marry me -- unless it might be a foreign missionary .
I suppose a foreign missionary might n't be very particular .
But I do hope that some day I shall have a white dress .
That be my high ideal of earthly bliss .
I just love pretty clothes .
And I 've never have a pretty dress in my life that I can remember -- but of course it 's all the more to look forward to , be n't it ?
And then I can imagine that I 'm dressed gorgeously .
This morning when I leave the asylum I felt so ashamed because I have to wear this horrid old wincey dress .
All the orphan have to wear them , you know .
A merchant in Hopeton last winter donate three hundred yard of wincey to the asylum .
Some people say it be because he could n't sell it , but I 'd rather believe that it be out of the kindness of his heart , would n't you ?
When we get on the train I felt a if everybody must be look at me and pity me .
But I just go to work and imagine that I have on the most beautiful pale blue silk dress -- because when you ARE imagine you might as well imagine something worth while -- and a big hat all flower and nod plume , and a gold watch , and kid glove and boot .
I felt cheer up right away and I enjoy my trip to the Island with all my might .
I be n't a bit sick come over in the boat .
Neither be Mrs. Spencer although she generally be .
She say she have n't time to get sick , watch to see that I do n't fall overboard .
She say she never saw the beat of me for prowl about .
But if it keep her from be seasick it 's a mercy I do prowl , be n't it ?
And I want to see everything that be to be see on that boat , because I do n't know whether I 'd ever have another opportunity .
Oh , there be a lot more cherry-trees all in bloom !
This Island be the bloomiest place .
I just love it already , and I 'm so glad I 'm go to live here .
I 've always hear that Prince Edward Island be the pretty place in the world , and I use to imagine I be live here , but I never really expect I would .
It 's delightful when your imagination come true , be n't it ?
But those red road be so funny .
When we get into the train at Charlottetown and the red road begin to flash past I ask Mrs. Spencer what make them red and she say she do n't know and for pity 's sake not to ask her any more question .
She say I must have ask her a thousand already .
I suppose I have , too , but how you go to find out about thing if you do n't ask question ?
And what DOES make the road red ? ''
`` Well now , I dunno , '' say Matthew .
`` Well , that be one of the thing to find out sometime .
Is n't it splendid to think of all the thing there be to find out about ?
It just make me feel glad to be alive -- it 's such an interesting world .
It would n't be half so interesting if we know all about everything , would it ?
There 'd be no scope for imagination then , would there ?
But be I talk too much ?
People be always tell me I do .
Would you rather I do n't talk ?
If you say so I 'll stop .
I can STOP when I make up my mind to it , although it 's difficult . ''
Matthew , much to his own surprise , be enjoy himself .
Like most quiet folk he like talkative people when they be willing to do the talk themselves and do not expect him to keep up his end of it .
But he have never expect to enjoy the society of a little girl .
Women be bad enough in all conscience , but little girl be bad .
He detest the way they have of sidle past him timidly , with sidewise glance , a if they expect him to gobble them up at a mouthful if they venture to say a word .
That be the Avonlea type of well-bred little girl .
But this freckle witch be very different , and although he find it rather difficult for his slow intelligence to keep up with her brisk mental process he think that he `` kind of like her chatter . ''
So he say as shyly a usual : `` Oh , you can talk as much a you like .
I do n't mind . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so glad .
I know you and I be go to get along together fine .
It 's such a relief to talk when one want to and not be tell that child should be see and not hear .
I 've have that say to me a million time if I have once .
And people laugh at me because I use big word .
But if you have big idea you have to use big word to express them , have n't you ? ''
`` Well now , that seem reasonable , '' say Matthew .
`` Mrs. Spencer say that my tongue must be hang in the middle .
But it be n't -- it 's firmly fasten at one end .
Mrs. Spencer say your place be name Green Gables .
I ask her all about it .
And she say there be tree all around it .
I be gladder than ever .
I just love tree .
And there be n't any at all about the asylum , only a few poor weeny-teeny thing out in front with little whitewashed cagey thing about them .
They just look like orphan themselves , those tree do .
It use to make me want to cry to look at them .
I use to say to them , ` Oh , you POOR little thing !
If you be out in a great big wood with other tree all around you and little moss and Junebells grow over your root and a brook not far away and bird sing in you branch , you could grow , could n't you ?
But you ca n't where you be .
I know just exactly how you feel , little tree . '
I felt sorry to leave them behind this morning .
You do get so attached to thing like that , do n't you ?
Is there a brook anywhere near Green Gables ?
I forget to ask Mrs. Spencer that . ''
`` Well now , yes , there 's one right below the house . ''
`` Fancy .
It 's always be one of my dream to live near a brook .
I never expect I would , though .
Dreams do n't often come true , do they ?
Would n't it be nice if they do ?
But just now I feel pretty nearly perfectly happy .
I ca n't feel exactly perfectly happy because -- well , what color would you call this ? ''
She twitch one of her long glossy braid over her thin shoulder and hold it up before Matthew 's eye .
Matthew be not use to decide on the tint of lady ' tress , but in this case there could n't be much doubt .
`` It 's red , ai n't it ? ''
he say .
The girl let the braid drop back with a sigh that seem to come from her very toe and to exhale forth all the sorrow of the age .
`` Yes , it 's red , '' she say resignedly .
`` Now you see why I ca n't be perfectly happy .
Nobody could who have red hair .
I do n't mind the other thing so much -- the freckle and the green eye and my skinniness .
I can imagine them away .
I can imagine that I have a beautiful rose-leaf complexion and lovely starry violet eye .
But I CAN NOT imagine that red hair away .
I do my best .
I think to myself , ` Now my hair be a glorious black , black a the raven 's wing . '
But all the time I KNOW it be just plain red and it break my heart .
It will be my lifelong sorrow .
I read of a girl once in a novel who have a lifelong sorrow but it be n't red hair .
Her hair be pure gold ripple back from her alabaster brow .
What be an alabaster brow ?
I never could find out .
Can you tell me ? ''
`` Well now , I 'm afraid I ca n't , '' say Matthew , who be get a little dizzy .
He felt a he have once felt in his rash youth when another boy have entice him on the merry-go-round at a picnic .
`` Well , whatever it be it must have be something nice because she be divinely beautiful .
Have you ever imagine what it must feel like to be divinely beautiful ? ''
`` Well now , no , I have n't , '' confess Matthew ingenuously .
`` I have , often .
Which would you rather be if you have the choice -- divinely beautiful or dazzlingly clever or angelically good ? ''
`` Well now , I -- I do n't know exactly . ''
`` Neither do I. I can never decide .
But it do n't make much real difference for it be n't likely I 'll ever be either .
It 's certain I 'll never be angelically good .
Mrs. Spencer say -- oh , Mr. Cuthbert !
Oh , Mr. Cuthbert ! !
Oh , Mr. Cuthbert ! ! ! ''
That be not what Mrs. Spencer have say ; neither have the child tumble out of the buggy nor have Matthew do anything astonish .
They have simply round a curve in the road and find themselves in the `` Avenue . ''
The `` Avenue , '' so call by the Newbridge people , be a stretch of road four or five hundred yard long , completely arch over with huge , wide-spreading apple-trees , plant year ago by an eccentric old farmer .
Overhead be one long canopy of snowy fragrant bloom .
Below the bough the air be full of a purple twilight and far ahead a glimpse of painted sunset sky shone like a great rise window at the end of a cathedral aisle .
Its beauty seem to strike the child dumb .
She lean back in the buggy , her thin hand clasp before her , her face lift rapturously to the white splendor above .
Even when they have pass out and be drive down the long slope to Newbridge she never move or speak .
Still with rapt face she gaze afar into the sunset west , with eye that saw vision troop splendidly across that glow background .
Through Newbridge , a bustling little village where dog bark at them and small boy hoot and curious face peer from the window , they drive , still in silence .
When three more mile have drop away behind them the child have not speak .
She could keep silence , it be evident , as energetically a she could talk .
`` I guess you 're feel pretty tire and hungry , '' Matthew venture to say at last , account for her long visitation of dumbness with the only reason he could think of .
`` But we have n't very far to go now -- only another mile . ''
She come out of her reverie with a deep sigh and look at him with the dreamy gaze of a soul that have be wonder afar , star-led .
`` Oh , Mr. Cuthbert , '' she whisper , `` that place we come through -- that white place -- what be it ? ''
`` Well now , you must mean the Avenue , '' say Matthew after a few moment ' profound reflection .
`` It be a kind of pretty place . ''
`` Pretty ?
Oh , PRETTY do n't seem the right word to use .
Nor beautiful , either .
They do n't go far enough .
Oh , it be wonderful -- wonderful .
It 's the first thing I ever saw that could n't be improve upon by imagination .
It just satisfy me here '' -- she put one hand on her breast -- `` it make a queer funny ache and yet it be a pleasant ache .
Did you ever have an ache like that , Mr. Cuthbert ? ''
`` Well now , I just ca n't recollect that I ever have . ''
`` I have it lots of time -- whenever I see anything royally beautiful .
But they should n't call that lovely place the Avenue .
There be no meaning in a name like that .
They should call it -- let me see -- the White Way of Delight .
Is n't that a nice imaginative name ?
When I do n't like the name of a place or a person I always imagine a new one and always think of them so .
There be a girl at the asylum whose name be Hepzibah Jenkins , but I always imagine her a Rosalia DeVere .
Other people may call that place the Avenue , but I shall always call it the White Way of Delight .
Have we really only another mile to go before we get home ?
I 'm glad and I 'm sorry .
I 'm sorry because this drive have be so pleasant and I 'm always sorry when pleasant thing end .
Something still pleasanter may come after , but you can never be sure .
And it 's so often the case that it be n't pleasanter .
That have be my experience anyhow .
But I 'm glad to think of get home .
You see , I 've never have a real home since I can remember .
It give me that pleasant ache again just to think of come to a really truly home .
Oh , be n't that pretty ! ''
They have drive over the crest of a hill .
Below them be a pond , look almost like a river so long and wind be it .
A bridge span it midway and from there to it low end , where an amber-hued belt of sand-hills shut it in from the dark blue gulf beyond , the water be a glory of many shift hue -- the most spiritual shading of crocus and rise and ethereal green , with other elusive tinting for which no name have ever be find .
Above the bridge the pond run up into fringe grove of fir and maple and lay all darkly translucent in their wavering shadow .
Here and there a wild plum lean out from the bank like a white-clad girl tip-toeing to her own reflection .
From the marsh at the head of the pond come the clear , mournfully-sweet chorus of the frog .
There be a little gray house peer around a white apple orchard on a slope beyond and , although it be not yet quite dark , a light be shin from one of it window .
`` That 's Barry 's pond , '' say Matthew .
`` Oh , I do n't like that name , either .
I shall call it -- let me see -- the Lake of Shining Waters .
Yes , that be the right name for it .
I know because of the thrill .
When I hit on a name that suit exactly it give me a thrill .
Do thing ever give you a thrill ? ''
Matthew ruminate .
`` Well now , yes .
It always kind of give me a thrill to see them ugly white grub that spade up in the cucumber bed .
I hate the look of them . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think that can be exactly the same kind of a thrill .
Do you think it can ?
There do n't seem to be much connection between grub and lake of shin water , do there ?
But why do other people call it Barry 's pond ? ''
`` I reckon because Mr. Barry live up there in that house .
Orchard Slope 's the name of his place .
If it be n't for that big bush behind it you could see Green Gables from here .
But we have to go over the bridge and round by the road , so it 's near half a mile far . ''
`` Has Mr. Barry any little girl ?
Well , not so very little either -- about my size . ''
`` He 's get one about eleven .
Her name be Diana . ''
`` Oh ! ''
with a long indrawing of breath .
`` What a perfectly lovely name ! ''
`` Well now , I dunno .
There 's something dreadful heathenish about it , seem to me .
I 'd ruther Jane or Mary or some sensible name like that .
But when Diana be bear there be a schoolmaster boarding there and they give him the naming of her and he call her Diana . ''
`` I wish there have be a schoolmaster like that around when I be bear , then .
Oh , here we be at the bridge .
I 'm go to shut my eye tight .
I 'm always afraid go over bridge .
I ca n't help imagine that perhaps just a we get to the middle , they 'll crumple up like a jack-knife and nip u .
So I shut my eye .
But I always have to open them for all when I think we 're get near the middle .
Because , you see , if the bridge DID crumple up I 'd want to SEE it crumple .
What a jolly rumble it make !
I always like the rumble part of it .
Is n't it splendid there be so many thing to like in this world ?
There we 're over .
Now I 'll look back .
Good night , dear Lake of Shining Waters .
I always say good night to the thing I love , just a I would to people .
I think they like it .
That water look a if it be smile at me . ''
When they have drive up the further hill and around a corner Matthew say : `` We 're pretty near home now .
That 's Green Gables over -- '' `` Oh , do n't tell me , '' she interrupt breathlessly , catch at his partially raise arm and shut her eye that she might not see his gesture .
`` Let me guess .
I 'm sure I 'll guess right . ''
She open her eye and look about her .
They be on the crest of a hill .
The sun have set some time since , but the landscape be still clear in the mellow afterlight .
To the west a dark church spire rise up against a marigold sky .
Below be a little valley and beyond a long , gently-rising slope with snug farmstead scatter along it .
From one to another the child 's eye dart , eager and wistful .
At last they linger on one away to the left , far back from the road , dimly white with blossom tree in the twilight of the surround wood .
Over it , in the stainless southwest sky , a great crystal-white star be shin like a lamp of guidance and promise .
`` That 's it , be n't it ? ''
she say , point .
Matthew slap the rein on the sorrel 's back delightedly .
`` Well now , you 've guess it !
But I reckon Mrs. Spencer describe it so 's you could tell . ''
`` No , she do n't -- really she do n't .
All she say might just as well have be about most of those other place .
I have n't any real idea what it look like .
But just as soon a I saw it I felt it be home .
Oh , it seem a if I must be in a dream .
Do you know , my arm must be black and blue from the elbow up , for I 've pinch myself so many time today .
Every little while a horrible sickening feeling would come over me and I 'd be so afraid it be all a dream .
Then I 'd pinch myself to see if it be real -- until suddenly I remember that even suppose it be only a dream I 'd well go on dream as long a I could ; so I stop pinch .
But it IS real and we 're nearly home . ''
With a sigh of rapture she relapse into silence .
Matthew stir uneasily .
He felt glad that it would be Marilla and not he who would have to tell this waif of the world that the home she long for be not to be hers after all .
They drive over Lynde 's Hollow , where it be already quite dark , but not so dark that Mrs. Rachel could not see them from her window vantage , and up the hill and into the long lane of Green Gables .
By the time they arrive at the house Matthew be shrink from the approach revelation with an energy he do not understand .
It be not of Marilla or himself he be think of the trouble this mistake be probably go to make for them , but of the child 's disappointment .
When he think of that rapt light be quench in her eye he have an uncomfortable feeling that he be go to assist at murder something -- much the same feeling that come over him when he have to kill a lamb or calf or any other innocent little creature .
The yard be quite dark a they turn into it and the poplar leaf be rustle silkily all round it .
`` Listen to the tree talk in their sleep , '' she whisper , a he lift her to the ground .
`` What nice dream they must have ! ''
Then , hold tightly to the carpet-bag which contain `` all her worldly good , '' she follow him into the house .
CHAPTER III .
Marilla Cuthbert be Surprised Marilla come briskly forward a Matthew open the door .
But when her eye fell of the odd little figure in the stiff , ugly dress , with the long braid of red hair and the eager , luminous eye , she stop short in amazement .
`` Matthew Cuthbert , who 's that ? ''
she ejaculate .
`` Where be the boy ? ''
`` There be n't any boy , '' say Matthew wretchedly .
`` There be only HER . ''
He nod at the child , remember that he have never even ask her name .
`` No boy !
But there MUST have be a boy , '' insist Marilla .
`` We send word to Mrs. Spencer to bring a boy . ''
`` Well , she do n't .
She bring HER .
I ask the station-master .
And I have to bring her home .
She could n't be leave there , no matter where the mistake have come in . ''
`` Well , this be a pretty piece of business ! ''
ejaculate Marilla .
During this dialogue the child have remain silent , her eye rove from one to the other , all the animation fade out of her face .
Suddenly she seem to grasp the full meaning of what have be say .
Dropping her precious carpet-bag she spring forward a step and clasp her hand .
`` You do n't want me ! ''
she cry .
`` You do n't want me because I 'm not a boy !
I might have expect it .
Nobody ever do want me .
I might have know it be all too beautiful to last .
I might have know nobody really do want me .
Oh , what shall I do ?
I 'm go to burst into tear ! ''
Burst into tear she do .
Sitting down on a chair by the table , fling her arm out upon it , and bury her face in them , she proceed to cry stormily .
Marilla and Matthew look at each other deprecatingly across the stove .
Neither of them know what to say or do .
Finally Marilla step lamely into the breach .
`` Well , well , there 's no need to cry so about it . ''
`` Yes , there IS need ! ''
The child raise her head quickly , reveal a tear-stained face and tremble lip .
`` YOU would cry , too , if you be an orphan and have come to a place you think be go to be home and find that they do n't want you because you be n't a boy .
Oh , this be the most TRAGICAL thing that ever happen to me ! ''
Something like a reluctant smile , rather rusty from long disuse , mellow Marilla 's grim expression .
`` Well , do n't cry any more .
We 're not go to turn you out-of-doors to-night .
You 'll have to stay here until we investigate this affair .
What 's your name ? ''
The child hesitate for a moment .
`` Will you please call me Cordelia ? ''
she say eagerly .
`` CALL you Cordelia ?
Is that your name ? ''
`` No-o-o , it 's not exactly my name , but I would love to be call Cordelia .
It 's such a perfectly elegant name . ''
`` I do n't know what on earth you mean .
If Cordelia be n't your name , what be ? ''
`` Anne Shirley , '' reluctantly falter forth the owner of that name , `` but , oh , please do call me Cordelia .
It ca n't matter much to you what you call me if I 'm only go to be here a little while , can it ?
And Anne be such an unromantic name . ''
`` Unromantic fiddlestick ! ''
say the unsympathetic Marilla .
`` Anne be a real good plain sensible name .
You 've no need to be ashamed of it . ''
`` Oh , I 'm not ashamed of it , '' explain Anne , `` only I like Cordelia well .
I 've always imagine that my name be Cordelia -- at least , I always have of late year .
When I be young I use to imagine it be Geraldine , but I like Cordelia well now .
But if you call me Anne please call me Anne spell with an E. '' `` What difference do it make how it 's spell ? ''
ask Marilla with another rusty smile a she pick up the teapot .
`` Oh , it make SUCH a difference .
It LOOKS so much nicer .
When you hear a name pronounce ca n't you always see it in your mind , just a if it be print out ?
I can ; and A-n-n look dreadful , but A-n-n-e look so much more distinguished .
If you 'll only call me Anne spell with an E I shall try to reconcile myself to not be call Cordelia . ''
`` Very well , then , Anne spell with an E , can you tell u how this mistake come to be make ?
We send word to Mrs. Spencer to bring u a boy .
Were there no boy at the asylum ? ''
`` Oh , yes , there be an abundance of them .
But Mrs. Spencer say DISTINCTLY that you want a girl about eleven year old .
And the matron say she think I would do .
You do n't know how delighted I be .
I could n't sleep all last night for joy .
Oh , '' she add reproachfully , turn to Matthew , `` why do n't you tell me at the station that you do n't want me and leave me there ?
If I have n't see the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining Waters it would n't be so hard . ''
`` What on earth do she mean ? ''
demand Marilla , star at Matthew .
`` She -- she 's just refer to some conversation we have on the road , '' say Matthew hastily .
`` I 'm go out to put the mare in , Marilla .
Have tea ready when I come back . ''
`` Did Mrs. Spencer bring anybody over besides you ? ''
continued Marilla when Matthew have go out .
`` She bring Lily Jones for herself .
Lily be only five year old and she be very beautiful and have nut-brown hair .
If I be very beautiful and have nut-brown hair would you keep me ? ''
`` No .
We want a boy to help Matthew on the farm .
A girl would be of no use to u .
Take off your hat .
I 'll lay it and your bag on the hall table . ''
Anne take off her hat meekly .
Matthew come back presently and they sit down to supper .
But Anne could not eat .
In vain she nibble at the bread and butter and peck at the crab-apple preserve out of the little scalloped glass dish by her plate .
She do not really make any headway at all .
`` You 're not eat anything , '' say Marilla sharply , eye her a if it be a serious shortcoming .
Anne sigh .
`` I ca n't .
I 'm in the depth of despair .
Can you eat when you be in the depth of despair ? ''
`` I 've never be in the depth of despair , so I ca n't say , '' respond Marilla .
`` Were n't you ?
Well , do you ever try to IMAGINE you be in the depth of despair ? ''
`` No , I do n't . ''
`` Then I do n't think you can understand what it 's like .
It 's very uncomfortable feel indeed .
When you try to eat a lump come right up in your throat and you ca n't swallow anything , not even if it be a chocolate caramel .
I have one chocolate caramel once two year ago and it be simply delicious .
I 've often dream since then that I have a lot of chocolate caramel , but I always wake up just when I 'm go to eat them .
I do hope you wo n't be offend because I ca n't eat .
Everything be extremely nice , but still I can not eat . ''
`` I guess she 's tired , '' say Matthew , who have n't speak since his return from the barn .
`` Best put her to bed , Marilla . ''
Marilla have be wonder where Anne should be put to bed .
She have prepare a couch in the kitchen chamber for the desired and expect boy .
But , although it be neat and clean , it do not seem quite the thing to put a girl there somehow .
But the spare room be out of the question for such a stray waif , so there remain only the east gable room .
Marilla light a candle and tell Anne to follow her , which Anne spiritlessly do , take her hat and carpet-bag from the hall table a she pass .
The hall be fearsomely clean ; the little gable chamber in which she presently find herself seem still clean .
Marilla set the candle on a three-legged , three-cornered table and turn down the bedclothes .
`` I suppose you have a nightgown ? ''
she question .
Anne nod .
`` Yes , I have two .
The matron of the asylum make them for me .
They 're fearfully skimpy .
There be never enough to go around in an asylum , so thing be always skimpy -- at least in a poor asylum like ours .
I hate skimpy night-dresses .
But one can dream just as well in them a in lovely trail one , with frill around the neck , that 's one consolation . ''
`` Well , undress as quick a you can and go to bed .
I 'll come back in a few minute for the candle .
I dare n't trust you to put it out yourself .
You 'd likely set the place on fire . ''
When Marilla have go Anne look around her wistfully .
The whitewashed wall be so painfully bare and star that she think they must ache over their own bareness .
The floor be bare , too , except for a round braid mat in the middle such a Anne have never see before .
In one corner be the bed , a high , old-fashioned one , with four dark , low-turned post .
In the other corner be the aforesaid three-corner table adorn with a fat , red velvet pin-cushion hard enough to turn the point of the most adventurous pin .
Above it hang a little six-by-eight mirror .
Midway between table and bed be the window , with an icy white muslin frill over it , and opposite it be the wash-stand .
The whole apartment be of a rigidity not to be describe in word , but which send a shiver to the very marrow of Anne 's bone .
With a sob she hastily discard her garment , put on the skimpy nightgown and sprang into bed where she burrow face downward into the pillow and pull the clothes over her head .
When Marilla come up for the light various skimpy article of raiment scatter most untidily over the floor and a certain tempestuous appearance of the bed be the only indication of any presence save her own .
She deliberately pick up Anne 's clothes , place them neatly on a prim yellow chair , and then , take up the candle , go over to the bed .
`` Good night , '' she say , a little awkwardly , but not unkindly .
Anne 's white face and big eye appear over the bedclothes with a startling suddenness .
`` How can you call it a GOOD night when you know it must be the very bad night I 've ever have ? ''
she say reproachfully .
Then she dive down into invisibility again .
Marilla go slowly down to the kitchen and proceed to wash the supper dish .
Matthew be smoke -- a sure sign of perturbation of mind .
He seldom smoke , for Marilla set her face against it a a filthy habit ; but at certain time and season he felt driven to it and them Marilla wink at the practice , realize that a mere man must have some vent for his emotion .
`` Well , this be a pretty kettle of fish , '' she say wrathfully .
`` This be what come of send word instead of go ourselves .
Richard Spencer 's folk have twist that message somehow .
One of u will have to drive over and see Mrs. Spencer tomorrow , that 's certain .
This girl will have to be send back to the asylum . ''
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' say Matthew reluctantly .
`` You SUPPOSE so !
Do n't you know it ? ''
`` Well now , she 's a real nice little thing , Marilla .
It 's kind of a pity to send her back when she 's so set on stay here . ''
`` Matthew Cuthbert , you do n't mean to say you think we ought to keep her ! ''
Marilla 's astonishment could not have be great if Matthew have express a predilection for stand on his head .
`` Well , now , no , I suppose not -- not exactly , '' stammer Matthew , uncomfortably drive into a corner for his precise meaning .
`` I suppose -- we could hardly be expect to keep her . ''
`` I should say not .
What good would she be to u ? ''
`` We might be some good to her , '' say Matthew suddenly and unexpectedly .
`` Matthew Cuthbert , I believe that child have bewitch you !
I can see as plain a plain that you want to keep her . ''
`` Well now , she 's a real interesting little thing , '' persist Matthew .
`` You should have hear her talk come from the station . ''
`` Oh , she can talk fast enough .
I saw that at once .
It 's nothing in her favour , either .
I do n't like child who have so much to say .
I do n't want an orphan girl and if I do she be n't the style I 'd pick out .
There 's something I do n't understand about her .
No , she 's get to be despatch straight-way back to where she come from . ''
`` I could hire a French boy to help me , '' say Matthew , `` and she 'd be company for you . ''
`` I 'm not suffer for company , '' say Marilla shortly .
`` And I 'm not go to keep her . ''
`` Well now , it 's just a you say , of course , Marilla , '' say Matthew rise and put his pipe away .
`` I 'm go to bed . ''
To bed go Matthew .
And to bed , when she have put her dish away , go Marilla , frown most resolutely .
And up-stairs , in the east gable , a lonely , heart-hungry , friendless child cry herself to sleep .
CHAPTER IV .
Morning at Green Gables It be broad daylight when Anne awake and sit up in bed , star confusedly at the window through which a flood of cheery sunshine be pour and outside of which something white and feathery wave across glimpse of blue sky .
For a moment she could not remember where she be .
First come a delightful thrill , a something very pleasant ; then a horrible remembrance .
This be Green Gables and they do n't want her because she be n't a boy !
But it be morning and , yes , it be a cherry-tree in full bloom outside of her window .
With a bound she be out of bed and across the floor .
She push up the sash -- it go up stiffly and creakily , a if it have n't be open for a long time , which be the case ; and it stick so tight that nothing be need to hold it up .
Anne drop on her knee and gaze out into the June morning , her eye glisten with delight .
Oh , be n't it beautiful ?
Was n't it a lovely place ?
Suppose she be n't really go to stay here !
She would imagine she be .
There be scope for imagination here .
A huge cherry-tree grow outside , so close that it bough tap against the house , and it be so thick-set with blossom that hardly a leaf be to be see .
On both side of the house be a big orchard , one of apple-trees and one of cherry-trees , also shower over with blossom ; and their grass be all sprinkle with dandelion .
In the garden below be lilac-trees purple with flower , and their dizzily sweet fragrance drift up to the window on the morning wind .
Below the garden a green field lush with clover slop down to the hollow where the brook ran and where score of white birch grow , upspringing airily out of an undergrowth suggestive of delightful possibility in fern and moss and woodsy thing generally .
Beyond it be a hill , green and feathery with spruce and fir ; there be a gap in it where the gray gable end of the little house she have see from the other side of the Lake of Shining Waters be visible .
Off to the left be the big barn and beyond them , away down over green , low-sloping field , be a sparkling blue glimpse of sea .
Anne 's beauty-loving eye linger on it all , take everything greedily in .
She have look on so many unlovely place in her life , poor child ; but this be as lovely a anything she have ever dream .
She kneel there , lose to everything but the loveliness around her , until she be startle by a hand on her shoulder .
Marilla have come in unheard by the small dreamer .
`` It 's time you be dress , '' she say curtly .
Marilla really do not know how to talk to the child , and her uncomfortable ignorance make her crisp and curt when she do not mean to be .
Anne stand up and draw a long breath .
`` Oh , be n't it wonderful ? ''
she say , wave her hand comprehensively at the good world outside .
`` It 's a big tree , '' say Marilla , `` and it bloom great , but the fruit do n't amount to much never -- small and wormy . ''
`` Oh , I do n't mean just the tree ; of course it 's lovely -- yes , it 's RADIANTLY lovely -- it bloom a if it mean it -- but I mean everything , the garden and the orchard and the brook and the wood , the whole big dear world .
Do n't you feel a if you just love the world on a morning like this ?
And I can hear the brook laugh all the way up here .
Have you ever notice what cheerful thing brook be ?
They 're always laugh .
Even in winter-time I 've hear them under the ice .
I 'm so glad there 's a brook near Green Gables .
Perhaps you think it do n't make any difference to me when you 're not go to keep me , but it do .
I shall always like to remember that there be a brook at Green Gables even if I never see it again .
If there be n't a brook I 'd be HAUNTED by the uncomfortable feeling that there ought to be one .
I 'm not in the depth of despair this morning .
I never can be in the morning .
Is n't it a splendid thing that there be morning ?
But I feel very sad .
I 've just be imagine that it be really me you want after all and that I be to stay here for ever and ever .
It be a great comfort while it last .
But the bad of imagine thing be that the time come when you have to stop and that hurt . ''
`` You 'd better get dress and come down-stairs and never mind your imaginings , '' say Marilla as soon a she could get a word in edgewise .
`` Breakfast be wait .
Wash your face and comb your hair .
Leave the window up and turn your bedclothes back over the foot of the bed .
Be as smart a you can . ''
Anne could evidently be smart to some purpose for she be down-stairs in ten minute ' time , with her clothes neatly on , her hair brush and braid , her face wash , and a comfortable consciousness pervade her soul that she have fulfil all Marilla 's requirement .
As a matter of fact , however , she have forget to turn back the bedclothes .
`` I 'm pretty hungry this morning , '' she announce a she slip into the chair Marilla place for her .
`` The world do n't seem such a howl wilderness a it do last night .
I 'm so glad it 's a sunshiny morning .
But I like rainy morning real well , too .
All sort of morning be interesting , do n't you think ?
You do n't know what 's go to happen through the day , and there 's so much scope for imagination .
But I 'm glad it 's not rainy today because it 's easy to be cheerful and bear up under affliction on a sunshiny day .
I feel that I have a good deal to bear up under .
It 's all very well to read about sorrow and imagine yourself live through them heroically , but it 's not so nice when you really come to have them , be it ? ''
`` For pity 's sake hold your tongue , '' say Marilla .
`` You talk entirely too much for a little girl . ''
Thereupon Anne hold her tongue so obediently and thoroughly that her continued silence make Marilla rather nervous , a if in the presence of something not exactly natural .
Matthew also hold his tongue , -- but this be natural , -- so that the meal be a very silent one .
As it progress Anne become more and more abstracted , eat mechanically , with her big eye fix unswervingly and unseeingly on the sky outside the window .
This make Marilla more nervous than ever ; she have an uncomfortable feeling that while this odd child 's body might be there at the table her spirit be far away in some remote airy cloudland , borne aloft on the wing of imagination .
Who would want such a child about the place ?
Yet Matthew wish to keep her , of all unaccountable thing !
Marilla felt that he want it just as much this morning a he have the night before , and that he would go on want it .
That be Matthew 's way -- take a whim into his head and cling to it with the most amazing silent persistency -- a persistency ten time more potent and effectual in it very silence than if he have talk it out .
When the meal be end Anne come out of her reverie and offer to wash the dish .
`` Can you wash dish right ? ''
ask Marilla distrustfully .
`` Pretty well .
I 'm good at look after child , though .
I 've have so much experience at that .
It 's such a pity you have n't any here for me to look after . ''
`` I do n't feel a if I want any more child to look after than I 've get at present .
YOU 'RE problem enough in all conscience .
What 's to be do with you I do n't know .
Matthew be a most ridiculous man . ''
`` I think he 's lovely , '' say Anne reproachfully .
`` He be so very sympathetic .
He do n't mind how much I talk -- he seem to like it .
I felt that he be a kindred spirit as soon a ever I saw him . ''
`` You 're both queer enough , if that 's what you mean by kindred spirit , '' say Marilla with a sniff .
`` Yes , you may wash the dish .
Take plenty of hot water , and be sure you dry them well .
I 've get enough to attend to this morning for I 'll have to drive over to White Sands in the afternoon and see Mrs. Spencer .
You 'll come with me and we 'll settle what 's to be do with you .
After you 've finish the dish go up-stairs and make your bed . ''
Anne wash the dish deftly enough , a Marilla who keep a sharp eye on the process , discern .
Later on she make her bed less successfully , for she have never learn the art of wrestle with a feather tick .
But be be do somehow and smooth down ; and then Marilla , to get rid of her , tell her she might go out-of-doors and amuse herself until dinner time .
Anne fly to the door , face alight , eye glow .
On the very threshold she stop short , wheel about , come back and sit down by the table , light and glow a effectually blot out a if some one have clap an extinguisher on her .
`` What 's the matter now ? ''
demand Marilla .
`` I do n't dare go out , '' say Anne , in the tone of a martyr relinquish all earthly joy .
`` If I ca n't stay here there be no use in my loving Green Gables .
And if I go out there and get acquaint with all those tree and flower and the orchard and the brook I 'll not be able to help love it .
It 's hard enough now , so I wo n't make it any harder .
I want to go out so much -- everything seem to be call to me , ` Anne , Anne , come out to u .
Anne , Anne , we want a playmate ' -- but it 's good not .
There be no use in love thing if you have to be tear from them , be there ?
And it 's so hard to keep from love thing , be n't it ?
That be why I be so glad when I think I be go to live here .
I think I 'd have so many thing to love and nothing to hinder me .
But that brief dream be over .
I be resign to my fate now , so I do n't think I 'll go out for fear I 'll get unresigned again .
What be the name of that geranium on the window-sill , please ? ''
`` That 's the apple-scented geranium . ''
`` Oh , I do n't mean that sort of a name .
I mean just a name you give it yourself .
Did n't you give it a name ?
May I give it one then ?
May I call it -- let me see -- Bonny would do -- may I call it Bonny while I 'm here ?
Oh , do let me ! ''
`` Goodness , I do n't care .
But where on earth be the sense of name a geranium ? ''
`` Oh , I like thing to have handle even if they be only geranium .
It make them seem more like people .
How do you know but that it hurt a geranium 's feeling just to be call a geranium and nothing else ?
You would n't like to be call nothing but a woman all the time .
Yes , I shall call it Bonny .
I name that cherry-tree outside my bedroom window this morning .
I call it Snow Queen because it be so white .
Of course , it wo n't always be in blossom , but one can imagine that it be , ca n't one ? ''
`` I never in all my life saw or hear anything to equal her , '' mutter Marilla , beat a retreat down to the cellar after potato .
`` She be kind of interest a Matthew say .
I can feel already that I 'm wonder what on earth she 'll say next .
She 'll be cast a spell over me , too .
She 's cast it over Matthew .
That look he give me when he go out say everything he say or hint last night over again .
I wish he be like other men and would talk thing out .
A body could answer back then and argue him into reason .
But what 's to be do with a man who just LOOKS ? ''
Anne have relapse into reverie , with her chin in her hand and her eye on the sky , when Marilla return from her cellar pilgrimage .
There Marilla leave her until the early dinner be on the table .
`` I suppose I can have the mare and buggy this afternoon , Matthew ? ''
say Marilla .
Matthew nod and look wistfully at Anne .
Marilla intercept the look and say grimly : `` I 'm go to drive over to White Sands and settle this thing .
I 'll take Anne with me and Mrs. Spencer will probably make arrangement to send her back to Nova Scotia at once .
I 'll set your tea out for you and I 'll be home in time to milk the cow . ''
Still Matthew say nothing and Marilla have a sense of have waste word and breath .
There be nothing more aggravating than a man who wo n't talk back -- unless it be a woman who wo n't .
Matthew hitch the sorrel into the buggy in due time and Marilla and Anne set off .
Matthew open the yard gate for them and a they drive slowly through , he say , to nobody in particular a it seem : `` Little Jerry Buote from the Creek be here this morning , and I tell him I guess I 'd hire him for the summer . ''
Marilla make no reply , but she hit the unlucky sorrel such a vicious clip with the whip that the fat mare , unused to such treatment , whiz indignantly down the lane at an alarm pace .
Marilla look back once a the buggy bounce along and saw that aggravate Matthew leaning over the gate , look wistfully after them .
CHAPTER V. Anne 's History `` Do you know , '' say Anne confidentially , `` I 've make up my mind to enjoy this drive .
It 's be my experience that you can nearly always enjoy thing if you make up your mind firmly that you will .
Of course , you must make it up FIRMLY .
I be not go to think about go back to the asylum while we 're have our drive .
I 'm just go to think about the drive .
Oh , look , there 's one little early wild rise out !
Is n't it lovely ?
Do n't you think it must be glad to be a rise ?
Would n't it be nice if rose could talk ?
I 'm sure they could tell u such lovely thing .
And be n't pink the most bewitching color in the world ?
I love it , but I ca n't wear it .
Redheaded people ca n't wear pink , not even in imagination .
Did you ever know of anybody whose hair be red when she be young , but get to be another color when she grow up ? ''
`` No , I do n't know a I ever do , '' say Marilla mercilessly , `` and I should n't think it likely to happen in your case either . ''
Anne sigh .
`` Well , that be another hope go .
` My life be a perfect graveyard of buried hope . '
That 's a sentence I read in a book once , and I say it over to comfort myself whenever I 'm disappointed in anything . ''
`` I do n't see where the comforting come in myself , '' say Marilla .
`` Why , because it sound so nice and romantic , just a if I be a heroine in a book , you know .
I be so fond of romantic thing , and a graveyard full of buried hope be about as romantic a thing a one can imagine be n't it ?
I 'm rather glad I have one .
Are we go across the Lake of Shining Waters today ? ''
`` We 're not go over Barry 's pond , if that 's what you mean by your Lake of Shining Waters .
We 're go by the shore road . ''
`` Shore road sound nice , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` Is it as nice a it sound ?
Just when you say ` shore road ' I saw it in a picture in my mind , as quick a that !
And White Sands be a pretty name , too ; but I do n't like it as well a Avonlea .
Avonlea be a lovely name .
It just sound like music .
How far be it to White Sands ? ''
`` It 's five mile ; and a you 're evidently bent on talk you might as well talk to some purpose by tell me what you know about yourself . ''
`` Oh , what I KNOW about myself be n't really worth telling , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` If you 'll only let me tell you what I IMAGINE about myself you 'll think it ever so much more interesting . ''
`` No , I do n't want any of your imaginings .
Just you stick to bald fact .
Begin at the beginning .
Where be you bear and how old be you ? ''
`` I be eleven last March , '' say Anne , resign herself to bald fact with a little sigh .
`` And I be bear in Bolingbroke , Nova Scotia .
My father 's name be Walter Shirley , and he be a teacher in the Bolingbroke High School .
My mother 's name be Bertha Shirley .
Are n't Walter and Bertha lovely names ?
I 'm so glad my parent have nice name .
It would be a real disgrace to have a father name -- well , say Jedediah , would n't it ? ''
`` I guess it do n't matter what a person 's name be as long a he behave himself , '' say Marilla , feel herself call upon to inculcate a good and useful moral .
`` Well , I do n't know . ''
Anne look thoughtful .
`` I read in a book once that a rise by any other name would smell a sweet , but I 've never be able to believe it .
I do n't believe a rise WOULD be a nice if it be call a thistle or a skunk cabbage .
I suppose my father could have be a good man even if he have be call Jedediah ; but I 'm sure it would have be a cross .
Well , my mother be a teacher in the High school , too , but when she marry father she give up teaching , of course .
A husband be enough responsibility .
Mrs. Thomas say that they be a pair of baby and as poor a church mouse .
They go to live in a weeny-teeny little yellow house in Bolingbroke .
I 've never see that house , but I 've imagine it thousand of time .
I think it must have have honeysuckle over the parlor window and lilac in the front yard and lily of the valley just inside the gate .
Yes , and muslin curtain in all the window .
Muslin curtain give a house such an air .
I be bear in that house .
Mrs. Thomas say I be the homely baby she ever saw , I be so scrawny and tiny and nothing but eye , but that mother think I be perfectly beautiful .
I should think a mother would be a good judge than a poor woman who come in to scrub , would n't you ?
I 'm glad she be satisfy with me anyhow , I would feel so sad if I think I be a disappointment to her -- because she do n't live very long after that , you see .
She die of fever when I be just three month old .
I do wish she 'd live long enough for me to remember call her mother .
I think it would be so sweet to say ` mother , ' do n't you ?
And father die four day afterwards from fever too .
That leave me an orphan and folk be at their wit ' end , so Mrs. Thomas say , what to do with me .
You see , nobody want me even then .
It seem to be my fate .
Father and mother have both come from place far away and it be well know they have n't any relative living .
Finally Mrs. Thomas say she 'd take me , though she be poor and have a drunken husband .
She bring me up by hand .
Do you know if there be anything in be bring up by hand that ought to make people who be bring up that way good than other people ?
Because whenever I be naughty Mrs. Thomas would ask me how I could be such a bad girl when she have bring me up by hand -- reproachful-like .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Thomas move away from Bolingbroke to Marysville , and I live with them until I be eight year old .
I help look after the Thomas child -- there be four of them young than me -- and I can tell you they take a lot of look after .
Then Mr. Thomas be kill fall under a train and his mother offer to take Mrs. Thomas and the child , but she do n't want me .
Mrs. Thomas be at HER wit ' end , so she say , what to do with me .
Then Mrs. Hammond from up the river come down and say she 'd take me , see I be handy with child , and I go up the river to live with her in a little clearing among the stump .
It be a very lonesome place .
I 'm sure I could never have live there if I have n't have an imagination .
Mr. Hammond work a little sawmill up there , and Mrs. Hammond have eight child .
She have twin three time .
I like baby in moderation , but twin three time in succession be TOO MUCH .
I tell Mrs. Hammond so firmly , when the last pair come .
I use to get so dreadfully tired carry them about .
`` I live up river with Mrs. Hammond over two year , and then Mr. Hammond die and Mrs. Hammond break up housekeeping .
She divide her child among her relative and go to the States .
I have to go to the asylum at Hopeton , because nobody would take me .
They do n't want me at the asylum , either ; they say they be over-crowded a it be .
But they have to take me and I be there four month until Mrs. Spencer come . ''
Anne finish up with another sigh , of relief this time .
Evidently she do not like talk about her experience in a world that have not want her .
`` Did you ever go to school ? ''
demand Marilla , turn the sorrel mare down the shore road .
`` Not a great deal .
I go a little the last year I stay with Mrs. Thomas .
When I go up river we be so far from a school that I could n't walk it in winter and there be a vacation in summer , so I could only go in the spring and fall .
But of course I go while I be at the asylum .
I can read pretty well and I know ever so many piece of poetry off by heart -- ` The Battle of Hohenlinden ' and ` Edinburgh after Flodden , ' and ` Bingen of the Rhine , ' and most of the ` Lady of the Lake ' and most of ` The Seasons ' by James Thompson .
Do n't you just love poetry that give you a crinkly feel up and down your back ?
There be a piece in the Fifth Reader -- ` The Downfall of Poland ' -- that be just full of thrill .
Of course , I be n't in the Fifth Reader -- I be only in the Fourth -- but the big girl use to lend me theirs to read . ''
`` Were those woman -- Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Hammond -- good to you ? ''
ask Marilla , look at Anne out of the corner of her eye .
`` O-o-o-h , '' falter Anne .
Her sensitive little face suddenly flush scarlet and embarrassment sat on her brow .
`` Oh , they MEANT to be -- I know they mean to be just as good and kind a possible .
And when people mean to be good to you , you do n't mind very much when they 're not quite -- always .
They have a good deal to worry them , you know .
It 's very try to have a drunken husband , you see ; and it must be very try to have twin three time in succession , do n't you think ?
But I feel sure they mean to be good to me . ''
Marilla ask no more question .
Anne give herself up to a silent rapture over the shore road and Marilla guide the sorrel abstractedly while she ponder deeply .
Pity be suddenly stir in her heart for the child .
What a starved , unloved life she have have -- a life of drudgery and poverty and neglect ; for Marilla be shrewd enough to read between the line of Anne 's history and divine the truth .
No wonder she have be so delighted at the prospect of a real home .
It be a pity she have to be send back .
What if she , Marilla , should indulge Matthew 's unaccountable whim and let her stay ?
He be set on it ; and the child seem a nice , teachable little thing .
`` She 's get too much to say , '' think Marilla , `` but she might be train out of that .
And there 's nothing rude or slangy in what she do say .
She 's ladylike .
It 's likely her people be nice folk . ''
The shore road be `` woodsy and wild and lonesome . ''
On the right hand , scrub fir , their spirit quite unbroken by long year of tussle with the gulf wind , grow thickly .
On the left be the steep red sandstone cliff , so near the track in place that a mare of less steadiness than the sorrel might have try the nerve of the people behind her .
Down at the base of the cliff be heap of surf-worn rock or little sandy cove inlay with pebble a with ocean jewel ; beyond lay the sea , shimmer and blue , and over it soar the gull , their pinion flash silvery in the sunlight .
`` Is n't the sea wonderful ? ''
say Anne , rouse from a long , wide-eyed silence .
`` Once , when I live in Marysville , Mr. Thomas hire an express wagon and take u all to spend the day at the shore ten mile away .
I enjoy every moment of that day , even if I have to look after the child all the time .
I live it over in happy dream for year .
But this shore be nicer than the Marysville shore .
Are n't those gull splendid ?
Would you like to be a gull ?
I think I would -- that be , if I could n't be a human girl .
Do n't you think it would be nice to wake up at sunrise and swoop down over the water and away out over that lovely blue all day ; and then at night to fly back to one 's nest ?
Oh , I can just imagine myself do it .
What big house be that just ahead , please ? ''
`` That 's the White Sands Hotel .
Mr. Kirke run it , but the season have n't begin yet .
There be heap of Americans come there for the summer .
They think this shore be just about right . ''
`` I be afraid it might be Mrs. Spencer 's place , '' say Anne mournfully .
`` I do n't want to get there .
Somehow , it will seem like the end of everything . ''
CHAPTER VI .
Marilla Makes Up Her Mind Get there they do , however , in due season .
Mrs. Spencer live in a big yellow house at White Sands Cove , and she come to the door with surprise and welcome mingle on her benevolent face .
`` Dear , dear , '' she exclaim , `` you 're the last folk I be look for today , but I 'm real glad to see you .
You 'll put your horse in ?
And how be you , Anne ? ''
`` I 'm as well a can be expect , thank you , '' say Anne smilelessly .
A blight seem to have descend on her .
`` I suppose we 'll stay a little while to rest the mare , '' say Marilla , `` but I promise Matthew I 'd be home early .
The fact be , Mrs. Spencer , there 's be a queer mistake somewhere , and I 've come over to see where it be .
We send word , Matthew and I , for you to bring u a boy from the asylum .
We tell your brother Robert to tell you we want a boy ten or eleven year old . ''
`` Marilla Cuthbert , you do n't say so ! ''
say Mrs. Spencer in distress .
`` Why , Robert send word down by his daughter Nancy and she say you want a girl -- do n't she Flora Jane ? ''
appeal to her daughter who have come out to the step .
`` She certainly do , Miss Cuthbert , '' corroborate Flora Jane earnestly .
`` I 'm dreadful sorry , '' say Mrs. Spencer .
`` It 's too bad ; but it certainly be n't my fault , you see , Miss Cuthbert .
I do the best I could and I think I be follow your instruction .
Nancy be a terrible flighty thing .
I 've often have to scold her well for her heedlessness . ''
`` It be our own fault , '' say Marilla resignedly .
`` We should have come to you ourselves and not leave an important message to be pass along by word of mouth in that fashion .
Anyhow , the mistake have be make and the only thing to do be to set it right .
Can we send the child back to the asylum ?
I suppose they 'll take her back , wo n't they ? ''
`` I suppose so , '' say Mrs. Spencer thoughtfully , `` but I do n't think it will be necessary to send her back .
Mrs. Peter Blewett be up here yesterday , and she be say to me how much she wish she 'd send by me for a little girl to help her .
Mrs. Peter have a large family , you know , and she find it hard to get help .
Anne will be the very girl for you .
I call it positively providential . ''
Marilla do not look a if she think Providence have much to do with the matter .
Here be an unexpectedly good chance to get this unwelcome orphan off her hand , and she do not even feel grateful for it .
She know Mrs. Peter Blewett only by sight a a small , shrewish-faced woman without an ounce of superfluous flesh on her bone .
But she have heard of her .
`` A terrible worker and driver , '' Mrs. Peter be say to be ; and discharge servant girl tell fearsome tale of her temper and stinginess , and her family of pert , quarrelsome child .
Marilla felt a qualm of conscience at the thought of hand Anne over to her tender mercy .
`` Well , I 'll go in and we 'll talk the matter over , '' she say .
`` And if there be n't Mrs. Peter come up the lane this bless minute ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Spencer , bustle her guest through the hall into the parlor , where a deadly chill strike on them a if the air have be strain so long through dark green , closely draw blind that it have lose every particle of warmth it have ever possess .
`` That be real lucky , for we can settle the matter right away .
Take the armchair , Miss Cuthbert .
Anne , you sit here on the ottoman and do n't wiggle .
Let me take your hat .
Flora Jane , go out and put the kettle on .
Good afternoon , Mrs. Blewett .
We be just say how fortunate it be you happen along .
Let me introduce you two lady .
Mrs. Blewett , Miss Cuthbert .
Please excuse me for just a moment .
I forget to tell Flora Jane to take the bun out of the oven . ''
Mrs. Spencer whisk away , after pull up the blind .
Anne sit mutely on the ottoman , with her hand clasp tightly in her lap , star at Mrs Blewett a one fascinate .
Was she to be give into the keep of this sharp-faced , sharp-eyed woman ?
She felt a lump come up in her throat and her eye smart painfully .
She be begin to be afraid she could n't keep the tear back when Mrs. Spencer return , flush and beam , quite capable of take any and every difficulty , physical , mental or spiritual , into consideration and settle it out of hand .
`` It seem there 's be a mistake about this little girl , Mrs. Blewett , '' she say .
`` I be under the impression that Mr. and Miss Cuthbert want a little girl to adopt .
I be certainly tell so .
But it seem it be a boy they want .
So if you 're still of the same mind you be yesterday , I think she 'll be just the thing for you . ''
Mrs. Blewett dart her eye over Anne from head to foot .
`` How old be you and what 's your name ? ''
she demand .
`` Anne Shirley , '' falter the shrinking child , not dare to make any stipulation regard the spelling thereof , `` and I 'm eleven year old . ''
`` Humph !
You do n't look a if there be much to you .
But you 're wiry .
I do n't know but the wiry one be the best after all .
Well , if I take you you 'll have to be a good girl , you know -- good and smart and respectful .
I 'll expect you to earn your keep , and no mistake about that .
Yes , I suppose I might as well take her off your hand , Miss Cuthbert .
The baby 's awful fractious , and I 'm clean wear out attend to him .
If you like I can take her right home now . ''
Marilla look at Anne and soften at sight of the child 's pale face with it look of mute misery -- the misery of a helpless little creature who find itself once more caught in the trap from which it have escape .
Marilla felt an uncomfortable conviction that , if she deny the appeal of that look , it would haunt her to her die day .
More-over , she do not fancy Mrs. Blewett .
To hand a sensitive , `` highstrung '' child over to such a woman !
No , she could not take the responsibility of do that !
`` Well , I do n't know , '' she say slowly .
`` I do n't say that Matthew and I have absolutely decide that we would n't keep her .
In fact I may say that Matthew be dispose to keep her .
I just come over to find out how the mistake have occur .
I think I 'd well take her home again and talk it over with Matthew .
I feel that I ought n't to decide on anything without consult him .
If we make up our mind not to keep her we 'll bring or send her over to you tomorrow night .
If we do n't you may know that she be go to stay with u .
Will that suit you , Mrs. Blewett ? ''
`` I suppose it 'll have to , '' say Mrs. Blewett ungraciously .
During Marilla 's speech a sunrise have be dawn on Anne 's face .
First the look of despair fade out ; then come a faint flush of hope ; her eye grow deep and bright a morning star .
The child be quite transfigure ; and , a moment later , when Mrs. Spencer and Mrs. Blewett go out in quest of a recipe the latter have come to borrow she spring up and flew across the room to Marilla .
`` Oh , Miss Cuthbert , do you really say that perhaps you would let me stay at Green Gables ? ''
she say , in a breathless whisper , a if speaking aloud might shatter the glorious possibility .
`` Did you really say it ?
Or do I only imagine that you do ? ''
`` I think you 'd better learn to control that imagination of yours , Anne , if you ca n't distinguish between what be real and what be n't , '' say Marilla crossly .
`` Yes , you do hear me say just that and no more .
It be n't decide yet and perhaps we will conclude to let Mrs. Blewett take you after all .
She certainly need you much more than I do . ''
`` I 'd rather go back to the asylum than go to live with her , '' say Anne passionately .
`` She look exactly like a -- like a gimlet . ''
Marilla smother a smile under the conviction that Anne must be reprove for such a speech .
`` A little girl like you should be ashamed of talk so about a lady and a stranger , '' she say severely .
`` Go back and sit down quietly and hold your tongue and behave a a good girl should . ''
`` I 'll try to do and be anything you want me , if you 'll only keep me , '' say Anne , return meekly to her ottoman .
When they arrive back at Green Gables that even Matthew meet them in the lane .
Marilla from afar have note him prowl along it and guess his motive .
She be prepare for the relief she read in his face when he saw that she have at least brought back Anne back with her .
But she say nothing , to him , relative to the affair , until they be both out in the yard behind the barn milk the cow .
Then she briefly tell him Anne 's history and the result of the interview with Mrs. Spencer .
`` I would n't give a dog I like to that Blewett woman , '' say Matthew with unusual vim .
`` I do n't fancy her style myself , '' admit Marilla , `` but it 's that or keep her ourselves , Matthew .
And since you seem to want her , I suppose I 'm willing -- or have to be .
I 've be think over the idea until I 've get kind of use to it .
It seem a sort of duty .
I 've never bring up a child , especially a girl , and I dare say I 'll make a terrible mess of it .
But I 'll do my best .
So far a I 'm concerned , Matthew , she may stay . ''
Matthew 's shy face be a glow of delight .
`` Well now , I reckon you 'd come to see it in that light , Marilla , '' he say .
`` She 's such an interesting little thing . ''
`` It 'd be more to the point if you could say she be a useful little thing , '' retort Marilla , `` but I 'll make it my business to see she 's train to be that .
And mind , Matthew , you 're not to go interfere with my method .
Perhaps an old maid do n't know much about bring up a child , but I guess she know more than an old bachelor .
So you just leave me to manage her .
When I fail it 'll be time enough to put your oar in . ''
`` There , there , Marilla , you can have your own way , '' say Matthew reassuringly .
`` Only be as good and kind to her a you can without spoil her .
I kind of think she 's one of the sort you can do anything with if you only get her to love you . ''
Marilla sniff , to express her contempt for Matthew 's opinion concern anything feminine , and walk off to the dairy with the pail .
`` I wo n't tell her tonight that she can stay , '' she reflect , a she strain the milk into the creamer .
`` She 'd be so excited that she would n't sleep a wink .
Marilla Cuthbert , you 're fairly in for it .
Did you ever suppose you 'd see the day when you 'd be adopt an orphan girl ?
It 's surprising enough ; but not so surprising a that Matthew should be at the bottom of it , him that always seem to have such a mortal dread of little girl .
Anyhow , we 've decide on the experiment and goodness only know what will come of it . ''
CHAPTER VII .
Anne Says Her Prayers When Marilla take Anne up to bed that night she say stiffly : `` Now , Anne , I notice last night that you throw your clothes all about the floor when you take them off .
That be a very untidy habit , and I ca n't allow it at all .
As soon a you take off any article of clothing fold it neatly and place it on the chair .
I have n't any use at all for little girl who be n't neat . ''
`` I be so harrow up in my mind last night that I do n't think about my clothes at all , '' say Anne .
`` I 'll fold them nicely tonight .
They always make u do that at the asylum .
Half the time , though , I 'd forget , I 'd be in such a hurry to get into bed nice and quiet and imagine thing . ''
`` You 'll have to remember a little good if you stay here , '' admonish Marilla .
`` There , that look something like .
Say your prayer now and get into bed . ''
`` I never say any prayer , '' announce Anne .
Marilla look horrified astonishment .
`` Why , Anne , what do you mean ?
Were you never teach to say your prayer ?
God always want little girl to say their prayer .
Do n't you know who God be , Anne ? '' ''
` God be a spirit , infinite , eternal and unchangeable , in His be , wisdom , power , holiness , justice , goodness , and truth , ' '' respond Anne promptly and glibly .
Marilla look rather relieve .
`` So you do know something then , thank goodness !
You 're not quite a heathen .
Where do you learn that ? ''
`` Oh , at the asylum Sunday-school .
They make u learn the whole catechism .
I like it pretty well .
There 's something splendid about some of the word .
` Infinite , eternal and unchangeable . '
Is n't that grand ?
It have such a roll to it -- just like a big organ playing .
You could n't quite call it poetry , I suppose , but it sound a lot like it , do n't it ? ''
`` We 're not talk about poetry , Anne -- we be talk about say your prayer .
Do n't you know it 's a terrible wicked thing not to say your prayer every night ?
I 'm afraid you be a very bad little girl . ''
`` You 'd find it easy to be bad than good if you have red hair , '' say Anne reproachfully .
`` People who have n't red hair do n't know what trouble be .
Mrs. Thomas tell me that God make my hair red ON PURPOSE , and I 've never care about Him since .
And anyhow I 'd always be too tire at night to bother say prayer .
People who have to look after twin ca n't be expect to say their prayer .
Now , do you honestly think they can ? ''
Marilla decide that Anne 's religious training must be begin at once .
Plainly there be no time to be lose .
`` You must say your prayer while you be under my roof , Anne . ''
`` Why , of course , if you want me to , '' assent Anne cheerfully .
`` I 'd do anything to oblige you .
But you 'll have to tell me what to say for this once .
After I get into bed I 'll imagine out a real nice prayer to say always .
I believe that it will be quite interesting , now that I come to think of it . ''
`` You must kneel down , '' say Marilla in embarrassment .
Anne kneel at Marilla 's knee and look up gravely .
`` Why must people kneel down to pray ?
If I really want to pray I 'll tell you what I 'd do .
I 'd go out into a great big field all alone or into the deep , deep , wood , and I 'd look up into the sky -- up -- up -- up -- into that lovely blue sky that look a if there be no end to it blueness .
And then I 'd just FEEL a prayer .
Well , I 'm ready .
What be I to say ? ''
Marilla felt more embarrassed than ever .
She have intend to teach Anne the childish classic , `` Now I lay me down to sleep . ''
But she have , a I have tell you , the glimmering of a sense of humor -- which be simply another name for a sense of fitness of thing ; and it suddenly occur to her that that simple little prayer , sacred to white-robed childhood lisping at motherly knee , be entirely unsuited to this freckle witch of a girl who know and care nothing bout God 's love , since she have never have it translate to her through the medium of human love .
`` You 're old enough to pray for yourself , Anne , '' she say finally .
`` Just thank God for your blessing and ask Him humbly for the thing you want . ''
`` Well , I 'll do my best , '' promise Anne , bury her face in Marilla 's lap .
`` Gracious heavenly Father -- that 's the way the minister say it in church , so I suppose it 's all right in private prayer , be n't it ? ''
she interject , lift her head for a moment .
`` Gracious heavenly Father , I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining Waters and Bonny and the Snow Queen .
I 'm really extremely grateful for them .
And that 's all the blessing I can think of just now to thank Thee for .
As for the thing I want , they 're so numerous that it would take a great deal of time to name them all so I will only mention the two most important .
Please let me stay at Green Gables ; and please let me be good-looking when I grow up .
I remain , `` Yours respectfully , Anne Shirley .
`` There , do I do all right ? ''
she ask eagerly , get up .
`` I could have make it much more flowery if I 'd have a little more time to think it over . ''
Poor Marilla be only preserve from complete collapse by remember that it be not irreverence , but simply spiritual ignorance on the part of Anne that be responsible for this extraordinary petition .
She tuck the child up in bed , mentally vow that she should be teach a prayer the very next day , and be leave the room with the light when Anne call her back .
`` I 've just think of it now .
I should have say , ` Amen ' in place of ` yours respectfully , ' should n't I ?
-- the way the minister do .
I 'd forget it , but I felt a prayer should be finish off in some way , so I put in the other .
Do you suppose it will make any difference ? ''
`` I -- I do n't suppose it will , '' say Marilla .
`` Go to sleep now like a good child .
Good night . ''
`` I can only say good night tonight with a clear conscience , '' say Anne , cuddle luxuriously down among her pillow .
Marilla retreat to the kitchen , set the candle firmly on the table , and glare at Matthew .
`` Matthew Cuthbert , it 's about time somebody adopt that child and teach her something .
She 's next door to a perfect heathen .
Will you believe that she never say a prayer in her life till tonight ?
I 'll send her to the manse tomorrow and borrow the Peep of the Day series , that 's what I 'll do .
And she shall go to Sunday-school just as soon a I can get some suitable clothes make for her .
I foresee that I shall have my hand full .
Well , well , we ca n't get through this world without our share of trouble .
I 've have a pretty easy life of it so far , but my time have come at last and I suppose I 'll just have to make the best of it . ''
CHAPTER VIII .
Anne 's Bringing-up Is Begun For reason best know to herself , Marilla do not tell Anne that she be to stay at Green Gables until the next afternoon .
During the forenoon she keep the child busy with various task and watch over her with a keen eye while she do them .
By noon she have conclude that Anne be smart and obedient , willing to work and quick to learn ; her most serious shortcoming seem to be a tendency to fall into daydream in the middle of a task and forget all about it until such time a she be sharply recall to earth by a reprimand or a catastrophe .
When Anne have finish wash the dinner dish she suddenly confront Marilla with the air and expression of one desperately determine to learn the bad .
Her thin little body tremble from head to foot ; her face flush and her eye dilate until they be almost black ; she clasp her hand tightly and say in an imploring voice : `` Oh , please , Miss Cuthbert , wo n't you tell me if you be go to send me away or not ?
I 've try to be patient all the morning , but I really feel that I can not bear not know any long .
It 's a dreadful feeling .
Please tell me . ''
`` You have n't scald the dishcloth in clean hot water a I tell you to do , '' say Marilla immovably .
`` Just go and do it before you ask any more question , Anne . ''
Anne go and attend to the dishcloth .
Then she return to Marilla and fasten implore eye of the latter 's face .
`` Well , '' say Marilla , unable to find any excuse for defer her explanation longer , `` I suppose I might as well tell you .
Matthew and I have decide to keep you -- that be , if you will try to be a good little girl and show yourself grateful .
Why , child , whatever be the matter ? ''
`` I 'm cry , '' say Anne in a tone of bewilderment .
`` I ca n't think why .
I 'm glad a glad can be .
Oh , GLAD do n't seem the right word at all .
I be glad about the White Way and the cherry blossom -- but this !
Oh , it 's something more than glad .
I 'm so happy .
I 'll try to be so good .
It will be uphill work , I expect , for Mrs. Thomas often tell me I be desperately wicked .
However , I 'll do my very best .
But can you tell me why I 'm cry ? ''
`` I suppose it 's because you 're all excited and work up , '' say Marilla disapprovingly .
`` Sit down on that chair and try to calm yourself .
I 'm afraid you both cry and laugh far too easily .
Yes , you can stay here and we will try to do right by you .
You must go to school ; but it 's only a fortnight till vacation so it be n't worth while for you to start before it open again in September . ''
`` What be I to call you ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Shall I always say Miss Cuthbert ?
Can I call you Aunt Marilla ? ''
`` No ; you 'll call me just plain Marilla .
I 'm not use to be call Miss Cuthbert and it would make me nervous . ''
`` It sound awfully disrespectful to just say Marilla , '' protest Anne .
`` I guess there 'll be nothing disrespectful in it if you 're careful to speak respectfully .
Everybody , young and old , in Avonlea call me Marilla except the minister .
He say Miss Cuthbert -- when he think of it . ''
`` I 'd love to call you Aunt Marilla , '' say Anne wistfully .
`` I 've never have an aunt or any relation at all -- not even a grandmother .
It would make me feel a if I really belong to you .
Ca n't I call you Aunt Marilla ? ''
`` No .
I 'm not your aunt and I do n't believe in call people name that do n't belong to them . ''
`` But we could imagine you be my aunt . ''
`` I could n't , '' say Marilla grimly .
`` Do you never imagine thing different from what they really be ? ''
ask Anne wide-eyed .
`` No . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Anne draw a long breath .
`` Oh , Miss -- Marilla , how much you miss ! ''
`` I do n't believe in imagine thing different from what they really be , '' retort Marilla .
`` When the Lord put u in certain circumstance He do n't mean for u to imagine them away .
And that remind me .
Go into the sitting room , Anne -- be sure your foot be clean and do n't let any fly in -- and bring me out the illustrated card that 's on the mantelpiece .
The Lord 's Prayer be on it and you 'll devote your spare time this afternoon to learn it off by heart .
There 's to be no more of such praying a I hear last night . ''
`` I suppose I be very awkward , '' say Anne apologetically , `` but then , you see , I 'd never have any practice .
You could n't really expect a person to pray very well the first time she try , could you ?
I think out a splendid prayer after I go to bed , just a I promise you I would .
It be nearly as long a a minister 's and so poetical .
But would you believe it ?
I could n't remember one word when I wake up this morning .
And I 'm afraid I 'll never be able to think out another one as good .
Somehow , thing never be so good when they 're think out a second time .
Have you ever notice that ? ''
`` Here be something for you to notice , Anne .
When I tell you to do a thing I want you to obey me at once and not stand stock-still and discourse about it .
Just you go and do a I bid you . ''
Anne promptly depart for the sitting-room across the hall ; she fail to return ; after wait ten minute Marilla lay down her knitting and march after her with a grim expression .
She find Anne stand motionless before a picture hang on the wall between the two window , with her eye astar with dream .
The white and green light strain through apple tree and cluster vine outside fell over the rapt little figure with a half-unearthly radiance .
`` Anne , whatever be you think of ? ''
demand Marilla sharply .
Anne come back to earth with a start .
`` That , '' she say , point to the picture -- a rather vivid chromo entitle , `` Christ Blessing Little Children '' -- `` and I be just imagine I be one of them -- that I be the little girl in the blue dress , stand off by herself in the corner a if she do n't belong to anybody , like me .
She look lonely and sad , do n't you think ?
I guess she have n't any father or mother of her own .
But she want to be bless , too , so she just creep shyly up on the outside of the crowd , hop nobody would notice her -- except Him .
I 'm sure I know just how she felt .
Her heart must have beat and her hand must have get cold , like mine do when I ask you if I could stay .
She be afraid He might n't notice her .
But it 's likely He do , do n't you think ?
I 've be try to imagine it all out -- her edge a little nearer all the time until she be quite close to Him ; and then He would look at her and put His hand on her hair and oh , such a thrill of joy a would run over her !
But I wish the artist have n't paint Him so sorrowful look .
All His picture be like that , if you 've notice .
But I do n't believe He could really have look so sad or the child would have be afraid of Him . ''
`` Anne , '' say Marilla , wonder why she have not break into this speech long before , `` you should n't talk that way .
It 's irreverent -- positively irreverent . ''
Anne 's eye marvel .
`` Why , I felt just as reverent a could be .
I 'm sure I do n't mean to be irreverent . ''
`` Well I do n't suppose you do -- but it do n't sound right to talk so familiarly about such thing .
And another thing , Anne , when I send you after something you 're to bring it at once and not fall into mooning and imagine before picture .
Remember that .
Take that card and come right to the kitchen .
Now , sit down in the corner and learn that prayer off by heart . ''
Anne set the card up against the jugful of apple blossom she have bring in to decorate the dinner-table -- Marilla have eye that decoration askance , but have say nothing -- prop her chin on her hand , and fell to study it intently for several silent minute .
`` I like this , '' she announce at length .
`` It 's beautiful .
I 've hear it before -- I hear the superintendent of the asylum Sunday school say it over once .
But I do n't like it then .
He have such a cracked voice and he pray it so mournfully .
I really felt sure he think pray be a disagreeable duty .
This be n't poetry , but it make me feel just the same way poetry do .
` Our Father who art in heaven hallow be Thy name . '
That be just like a line of music .
Oh , I 'm so glad you think of make me learn this , Miss -- Marilla . ''
`` Well , learn it and hold your tongue , '' say Marilla shortly .
Anne tip the vase of apple blossom near enough to bestow a soft kiss on a pink-cupped bud , and then study diligently for some moment longer .
`` Marilla , '' she demand presently , `` do you think that I shall ever have a bosom friend in Avonlea ? ''
`` A -- a what kind of friend ? ''
`` A bosom friend -- an intimate friend , you know -- a really kindred spirit to whom I can confide my inmost soul .
I 've dream of meet her all my life .
I never really suppose I would , but so many of my lovely dream have come true all at once that perhaps this one will , too .
Do you think it 's possible ? ''
`` Diana Barry live over at Orchard Slope and she 's about your age .
She 's a very nice little girl , and perhaps she will be a playmate for you when she come home .
She 's visit her aunt over at Carmody just now .
You 'll have to be careful how you behave yourself , though .
Mrs. Barry be a very particular woman .
She wo n't let Diana play with any little girl who be n't nice and good . ''
Anne look at Marilla through the apple blossom , her eye aglow with interest .
`` What be Diana like ?
Her hair be n't red , be it ?
Oh , I hope not .
It 's bad enough to have red hair myself , but I positively could n't endure it in a bosom friend . ''
`` Diana be a very pretty little girl .
She have black eye and hair and rosy cheek .
And she be good and smart , which be good than be pretty . ''
Marilla be a fond of moral a the Duchess in Wonderland , and be firmly convince that one should be tack on to every remark make to a child who be be bring up .
But Anne wave the moral inconsequently aside and seize only on the delightful possibility before it .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad she 's pretty .
Next to be beautiful oneself -- and that 's impossible in my case -- it would be best to have a beautiful bosom friend .
When I live with Mrs. Thomas she have a bookcase in her sitting room with glass door .
There be n't any book in it ; Mrs. Thomas keep her best china and her preserve there -- when she have any preserve to keep .
One of the door be break .
Mr. Thomas smash it one night when he be slightly intoxicate .
But the other be whole and I use to pretend that my reflection in it be another little girl who live in it .
I call her Katie Maurice , and we be very intimate .
I use to talk to her by the hour , especially on Sunday , and tell her everything .
Katie be the comfort and consolation of my life .
We use to pretend that the bookcase be enchant and that if I only know the spell I could open the door and step right into the room where Katie Maurice live , instead of into Mrs. Thomas ' shelf of preserve and china .
And then Katie Maurice would have take me by the hand and lead me out into a wonderful place , all flower and sunshine and fairy , and we would have live there happy for ever after .
When I go to live with Mrs. Hammond it just break my heart to leave Katie Maurice .
She felt it dreadfully , too , I know she do , for she be cry when she kiss me good-bye through the bookcase door .
There be no bookcase at Mrs. Hammond 's .
But just up the river a little way from the house there be a long green little valley , and the lovely echo live there .
It echo back every word you say , even if you do n't talk a bit loud .
So I imagine that it be a little girl call Violetta and we be great friend and I love her almost as well a I love Katie Maurice -- not quite , but almost , you know .
The night before I go to the asylum I say good-bye to Violetta , and oh , her good-bye come back to me in such sad , sad tone .
I have become so attached to her that I have n't the heart to imagine a bosom friend at the asylum , even if there have be any scope for imagination there . ''
`` I think it 's just as well there be n't , '' say Marilla drily .
`` I do n't approve of such goings-on .
You seem to half believe your own imagination .
It will be well for you to have a real live friend to put such nonsense out of your head .
But do n't let Mrs. Barry hear you talk about your Katie Maurices and your Violettas or she 'll think you tell story . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't .
I could n't talk of them to everybody -- their memory be too sacred for that .
But I think I 'd like to have you know about them .
Oh , look , here 's a big bee just tumble out of an apple blossom .
Just think what a lovely place to live -- in an apple blossom !
Fancy go to sleep in it when the wind be rock it .
If I be n't a human girl I think I 'd like to be a bee and live among the flower . ''
`` Yesterday you want to be a sea gull , '' sniff Marilla .
`` I think you be very fickle mind .
I tell you to learn that prayer and not talk .
But it seem impossible for you to stop talk if you 've get anybody that will listen to you .
So go up to your room and learn it . ''
`` Oh , I know it pretty nearly all now -- all but just the last line . ''
`` Well , never mind , do a I tell you .
Go to your room and finish learning it well , and stay there until I call you down to help me get tea . ''
`` Can I take the apple blossom with me for company ? ''
plead Anne .
`` No ; you do n't want your room clutter up with flower .
You should have leave them on the tree in the first place . ''
`` I do feel a little that way , too , '' say Anne .
`` I kind of felt I should n't shorten their lovely life by pick them -- I would n't want to be pick if I be an apple blossom .
But the temptation be IRRESISTIBLE .
What do you do when you meet with an irresistible temptation ? ''
`` Anne , do you hear me tell you to go to your room ? ''
Anne sigh , retreat to the east gable , and sit down in a chair by the window .
`` There -- I know this prayer .
I learn that last sentence come upstairs .
Now I 'm go to imagine thing into this room so that they 'll always stay imagined .
The floor be cover with a white velvet carpet with pink rose all over it and there be pink silk curtain at the window .
The wall be hang with gold and silver brocade tapestry .
The furniture be mahogany .
I never saw any mahogany , but it do sound SO luxurious .
This be a couch all heap with gorgeous silken cushion , pink and blue and crimson and gold , and I be recline gracefully on it .
I can see my reflection in that splendid big mirror hang on the wall .
I be tall and regal , clad in a gown of trail white lace , with a pearl cross on my breast and pearl in my hair .
My hair be of midnight darkness and my skin be a clear ivory pallor .
My name be the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald .
No , it be n't -- I ca n't make THAT seem real . ''
She dance up to the little looking-glass and peer into it .
Her point freckled face and solemn gray eye peer back at her .
`` You 're only Anne of Green Gables , '' she say earnestly , `` and I see you , just a you be look now , whenever I try to imagine I 'm the Lady Cordelia .
But it 's a million time nice to be Anne of Green Gables than Anne of nowhere in particular , be n't it ? ''
She bend forward , kiss her reflection affectionately , and betook herself to the open window .
`` Dear Snow Queen , good afternoon .
And good afternoon dear birch down in the hollow .
And good afternoon , dear gray house up on the hill .
I wonder if Diana be to be my bosom friend .
I hope she will , and I shall love her very much .
But I must never quite forget Katie Maurice and Violetta .
They would feel so hurt if I do and I 'd hate to hurt anybody 's feeling , even a little bookcase girl 's or a little echo girl 's .
I must be careful to remember them and send them a kiss every day . ''
Anne blow a couple of airy kiss from her fingertip past the cherry blossom and then , with her chin in her hand , drift luxuriously out on a sea of daydream .
CHAPTER IX .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde Is Properly Horrified Anne have be a fortnight at Green Gables before Mrs. Lynde arrive to inspect her .
Mrs. Rachel , to do her justice , be not to blame for this .
A severe and unseasonable attack of grippe have confine that good lady to her house ever since the occasion of her last visit to Green Gables .
Mrs. Rachel be not often sick and have a well-defined contempt for people who be ; but grippe , she assert , be like no other illness on earth and could only be interpret a one of the special visitation of Providence .
As soon a her doctor allow her to put her foot out-of-doors she hurry up to Green Gables , burst with curiosity to see Matthew and Marilla 's orphan , concern whom all sort of story and supposition have go abroad in Avonlea .
Anne have make good use of every wake moment of that fortnight .
Already she be acquaint with every tree and shrub about the place .
She have discover that a lane open out below the apple orchard and run up through a belt of woodland ; and she have explore it to it furthest end in all it delicious vagary of brook and bridge , fir coppice and wild cherry arch , corner thick with fern , and branch byway of maple and mountain ash .
She have make friend with the spring down in the hollow -- that wonderful deep , clear icy-cold spring ; it be set about with smooth red sandstone and rim in by great palm-like clump of water fern ; and beyond it be a log bridge over the brook .
That bridge lead Anne 's dance foot up over a wooded hill beyond , where perpetual twilight reign under the straight , thick-growing fir and spruce ; the only flower there be myriad of delicate `` June bell , '' those shy and sweet of woodland bloom , and a few pale , aerial starflower , like the spirit of last year 's blossom .
Gossamers glimmer like thread of silver among the tree and the fir bough and tassel seem to utter friendly speech .
All these raptured voyage of exploration be make in the odd half hour which she be allow for play , and Anne talk Matthew and Marilla half-deaf over her discovery .
Not that Matthew complain , to be sure ; he listen to it all with a wordless smile of enjoyment on his face ; Marilla permit the `` chatter '' until she find herself become too interested in it , whereupon she always promptly quench Anne by a curt command to hold her tongue .
Anne be out in the orchard when Mrs. Rachel come , wander at her own sweet will through the lush , tremulous grass splash with ruddy even sunshine ; so that good lady have an excellent chance to talk her illness fully over , describe every ache and pulse beat with such evident enjoyment that Marilla think even grippe must bring it compensation .
When detail be exhaust Mrs. Rachel introduce the real reason of her call .
`` I 've be hear some surprising thing about you and Matthew . ''
`` I do n't suppose you be any more surprised than I be myself , '' say Marilla .
`` I 'm get over my surprise now . ''
`` It be too bad there be such a mistake , '' say Mrs. Rachel sympathetically .
`` Could n't you have send her back ? ''
`` I suppose we could , but we decide not to .
Matthew take a fancy to her .
And I must say I like her myself -- although I admit she have her fault .
The house seem a different place already .
She 's a real bright little thing . ''
Marilla say more than she have intend to say when she begin , for she read disapproval in Mrs. Rachel 's expression .
`` It 's a great responsibility you 've take on yourself , '' say that lady gloomily , `` especially when you 've never have any experience with child .
You do n't know much about her or her real disposition , I suppose , and there 's no guess how a child like that will turn out .
But I do n't want to discourage you I 'm sure , Marilla . ''
`` I 'm not feel discourage , '' be Marilla 's dry response , `` when I make up my mind to do a thing it stay make up .
I suppose you 'd like to see Anne .
I 'll call her in . ''
Anne come run in presently , her face sparkle with the delight of her orchard roving ; but , abash at find the delight herself in the unexpected presence of a stranger , she halt confusedly inside the door .
She certainly be an odd-looking little creature in the short tight wincey dress she have wear from the asylum , below which her thin leg seem ungracefully long .
Her freckle be more numerous and obtrusive than ever ; the wind have ruffle her hatless hair into over-brilliant disorder ; it have never look red than at that moment .
`` Well , they do n't pick you for your look , that 's sure and certain , '' be Mrs. Rachel Lynde 's emphatic comment .
Mrs. Rachel be one of those delightful and popular people who pride themselves on speak their mind without fear or favor .
`` She 's terrible skinny and homely , Marilla .
Come here , child , and let me have a look at you .
Lawful heart , do any one ever see such freckle ?
And hair as red a carrot !
Come here , child , I say . ''
Anne `` come there , '' but not exactly a Mrs. Rachel expect .
With one bound she cross the kitchen floor and stand before Mrs. Rachel , her face scarlet with anger , her lip quivering , and her whole slender form tremble from head to foot .
`` I hate you , '' she cry in a choked voice , stamp her foot on the floor .
`` I hate you -- I hate you -- I hate you -- '' a louder stamp with each assertion of hatred .
`` How dare you call me skinny and ugly ?
How dare you say I 'm freckled and redheaded ?
You be a rude , impolite , unfeeling woman ! ''
`` Anne ! ''
exclaim Marilla in consternation .
But Anne continue to face Mrs. Rachel undauntedly , head up , eye blazing , hand clench , passionate indignation exhale from her like an atmosphere .
`` How dare you say such thing about me ? ''
she repeat vehemently .
`` How would you like to have such thing say about you ?
How would you like to be tell that you be fat and clumsy and probably have n't a spark of imagination in you ?
I do n't care if I do hurt your feeling by say so !
I hope I hurt them .
You have hurt mine bad than they be ever hurt before even by Mrs. Thomas ' intoxicated husband .
And I 'll NEVER forgive you for it , never , never ! ''
Stamp !
Stamp !
`` Did anybody ever see such a temper ! ''
exclaim the horrified Mrs. Rachel .
`` Anne go to your room and stay there until I come up , '' say Marilla , recover her power of speech with difficulty .
Anne , burst into tear , rush to the hall door , slam it until the tin on the porch wall outside rattle in sympathy , and flee through the hall and up the stair like a whirlwind .
A subdue slam above tell that the door of the east gable have be shut with equal vehemence .
`` Well , I do n't envy you your job bringing THAT up , Marilla , '' say Mrs. Rachel with unspeakable solemnity .
Marilla open her lip to say she know not what of apology or deprecation .
What she do say be a surprise to herself then and ever afterwards .
`` You should n't have twit her about her look , Rachel . ''
`` Marilla Cuthbert , you do n't mean to say that you be uphold her in such a terrible display of temper a we 've just see ? ''
demand Mrs. Rachel indignantly .
`` No , '' say Marilla slowly , `` I 'm not try to excuse her .
She 's be very naughty and I 'll have to give her a talk to about it .
But we must make allowance for her .
She 's never be teach what be right .
And you WERE too hard on her , Rachel . ''
Marilla could not help tack on that last sentence , although she be again surprise at herself for do it .
Mrs. Rachel get up with an air of offended dignity .
`` Well , I see that I 'll have to be very careful what I say after this , Marilla , since the fine feeling of orphan , bring from goodness know where , have to be consider before anything else .
Oh , no , I 'm not vex -- do n't worry yourself .
I 'm too sorry for you to leave any room for anger in my mind .
You 'll have your own trouble with that child .
But if you 'll take my advice -- which I suppose you wo n't do , although I 've bring up ten child and bury two -- you 'll do that ` talk to ' you mention with a fair-sized birch switch .
I should think THAT would be the most effective language for that kind of a child .
Her temper match her hair I guess .
Well , good evening , Marilla .
I hope you 'll come down to see me often a usual .
But you ca n't expect me to visit here again in a hurry , if I 'm liable to be fly at and insult in such a fashion .
It 's something new in MY experience . ''
Whereat Mrs. Rachel sweep out and away -- if a fat woman who always waddle COULD be say to sweep away -- and Marilla with a very solemn face betook herself to the east gable .
On the way upstairs she ponder uneasily a to what she ought to do .
She felt no little dismay over the scene that have just be enact .
How unfortunate that Anne should have display such temper before Mrs. Rachel Lynde , of all people !
Then Marilla suddenly become aware of an uncomfortable and rebuke consciousness that she felt more humiliation over this than sorrow over the discovery of such a serious defect in Anne 's disposition .
And how be she to punish her ?
The amiable suggestion of the birch switch -- to the efficiency of which all of Mrs. Rachel 's own child could have bear smarting testimony -- do not appeal to Marilla .
She do not believe she could whip a child .
No , some other method of punishment must be find to bring Anne to a proper realization of the enormity of her offense .
Marilla find Anne face downward on her bed , cry bitterly , quite oblivious of muddy boot on a clean counterpane .
`` Anne , '' she say not ungently .
No answer .
`` Anne , '' with great severity , `` get off that bed this minute and listen to what I have to say to you . ''
Anne squirm off the bed and sit rigidly on a chair beside it , her face swollen and tear-stained and her eye fix stubbornly on the floor .
`` This be a nice way for you to behave .
Anne !
Are n't you ashamed of yourself ? ''
`` She have n't any right to call me ugly and redheaded , '' retort Anne , evasive and defiant .
`` You have n't any right to fly into such a fury and talk the way you do to her , Anne .
I be ashamed of you -- thoroughly ashamed of you .
I want you to behave nicely to Mrs. Lynde , and instead of that you have disgrace me .
I 'm sure I do n't know why you should lose your temper like that just because Mrs. Lynde say you be red-haired and homely .
You say it yourself often enough . ''
`` Oh , but there 's such a difference between say a thing yourself and hear other people say it , '' wail Anne .
`` You may know a thing be so , but you ca n't help hop other people do n't quite think it be .
I suppose you think I have an awful temper , but I could n't help it .
When she say those thing something just rise right up in me and choke me .
I HAD to fly out at her . ''
`` Well , you make a fine exhibition of yourself I must say .
Mrs. Lynde will have a nice story to tell about you everywhere -- and she 'll tell it , too .
It be a dreadful thing for you to lose your temper like that , Anne . ''
`` Just imagine how you would feel if somebody tell you to your face that you be skinny and ugly , '' plead Anne tearfully .
An old remembrance suddenly rise up before Marilla .
She have be a very small child when she have hear one aunt say of her to another , `` What a pity she be such a dark , homely little thing . ''
Marilla be every day of fifty before the sting have go out of that memory .
`` I do n't say that I think Mrs. Lynde be exactly right in say what she do to you , Anne , '' she admit in a soft tone .
`` Rachel be too outspoken .
But that be no excuse for such behavior on your part .
She be a stranger and an elderly person and my visitor -- all three very good reason why you should have be respectful to her .
You be rude and saucy and '' -- Marilla have a save inspiration of punishment -- `` you must go to her and tell her you be very sorry for your bad temper and ask her to forgive you . ''
`` I can never do that , '' say Anne determinedly and darkly .
`` You can punish me in any way you like , Marilla .
You can shut me up in a dark , damp dungeon inhabit by snake and toad and fee me only on bread and water and I shall not complain .
But I can not ask Mrs. Lynde to forgive me . ''
`` We 're not in the habit of shut people up in dark damp dungeon , '' say Marilla drily , `` especially a they 're rather scarce in Avonlea .
But apologize to Mrs. Lynde you must and shall and you 'll stay here in your room until you can tell me you 're willing to do it . ''
`` I shall have to stay here forever then , '' say Anne mournfully , `` because I ca n't tell Mrs. Lynde I 'm sorry I say those thing to her .
How can I ?
I 'm NOT sorry .
I 'm sorry I 've vex you ; but I 'm GLAD I tell her just what I do .
It be a great satisfaction .
I ca n't say I 'm sorry when I 'm not , can I ?
I ca n't even IMAGINE I 'm sorry . ''
`` Perhaps your imagination will be in good work order by the morning , '' say Marilla , rise to depart .
`` You 'll have the night to think over your conduct in and come to a good frame of mind .
You say you would try to be a very good girl if we keep you at Green Gables , but I must say it have n't seem very much like it this evening . ''
Leaving this Parthian shaft to rankle in Anne 's stormy bosom , Marilla descend to the kitchen , grievously trouble in mind and vexed in soul .
She be a angry with herself a with Anne , because , whenever she recall Mrs. Rachel 's dumbfounded countenance her lip twitch with amusement and she felt a most reprehensible desire to laugh .
CHAPTER X. Anne 's Apology Marilla say nothing to Matthew about the affair that even ; but when Anne prove still refractory the next morning an explanation have to be make to account for her absence from the breakfast table .
Marilla tell Matthew the whole story , take pain to impress him with a due sense of the enormity of Anne 's behavior .
`` It 's a good thing Rachel Lynde get a call down ; she 's a meddlesome old gossip , '' be Matthew 's consolatory rejoinder .
`` Matthew Cuthbert , I 'm astonish at you .
You know that Anne 's behavior be dreadful , and yet you take her part !
I suppose you 'll be say next thing that she ought n't to be punish at all ! ''
`` Well now -- no -- not exactly , '' say Matthew uneasily .
`` I reckon she ought to be punish a little .
But do n't be too hard on her , Marilla .
Recollect she have n't ever have anyone to teach her right .
You 're -- you 're go to give her something to eat , be n't you ? ''
`` When do you ever hear of me starve people into good behavior ? ''
demand Marilla indignantly .
`` She 'll have her meal regular , and I 'll carry them up to her myself .
But she 'll stay up there until she 's willing to apologize to Mrs. Lynde , and that 's final , Matthew . ''
Breakfast , dinner , and supper be very silent meal -- for Anne still remain obdurate .
After each meal Marilla carry a well-filled tray to the east gable and bring it down later on not noticeably deplete .
Matthew eye it last descent with a troubled eye .
Had Anne eaten anything at all ?
When Marilla go out that even to bring the cow from the back pasture , Matthew , who have be hang about the barn and watching , slip into the house with the air of a burglar and crept upstairs .
As a general thing Matthew gravitate between the kitchen and the little bedroom off the hall where he sleep ; once in a while he venture uncomfortably into the parlor or sit room when the minister come to tea .
But he have never be upstairs in his own house since the spring he help Marilla paper the spare bedroom , and that be four year ago .
He tiptoe along the hall and stood for several minute outside the door of the east gable before he summon courage to tap on it with his finger and then open the door to peep in .
Anne be sit on the yellow chair by the window gaze mournfully out into the garden .
Very small and unhappy she look , and Matthew 's heart smite him .
He softly close the door and tiptoed over to her .
`` Anne , '' he whisper , a if afraid of be overheard , `` how be you make it , Anne ? ''
Anne smile wanly .
`` Pretty well .
I imagine a good deal , and that help to pass the time .
Of course , it 's rather lonesome .
But then , I may as well get use to that . ''
Anne smile again , bravely face the long year of solitary imprisonment before her .
Matthew recollect that he must say what he have come to say without loss of time , l Marilla return prematurely .
`` Well now , Anne , do n't you think you 'd better do it and have it over with ? ''
he whisper .
`` It 'll have to be do sooner or later , you know , for Marilla 's a dreadful deter-mined woman -- dreadful determined , Anne .
Do it right off , I say , and have it over . ''
`` Do you mean apologize to Mrs. Lynde ? ''
`` Yes -- apologize -- that 's the very word , '' say Matthew eagerly .
`` Just smooth it over so to speak .
That 's what I be try to get at . ''
`` I suppose I could do it to oblige you , '' say Anne thoughtfully .
`` It would be true enough to say I be sorry , because I AM sorry now .
I be n't a bit sorry last night .
I be mad clear through , and I stay mad all night .
I know I do because I wake up three time and I be just furious every time .
But this morning it be over .
I be n't in a temper anymore -- and it leave a dreadful sort of goneness , too .
I felt so ashamed of myself .
But I just could n't think of go and tell Mrs. Lynde so .
It would be so humiliating .
I make up my mind I 'd stay shut up here forever rather than do that .
But still -- I 'd do anything for you -- if you really want me to -- '' `` Well now , of course I do .
It 's terrible lonesome downstairs without you .
Just go and smooth thing over -- that 's a good girl . ''
`` Very well , '' say Anne resignedly .
`` I 'll tell Marilla as soon a she come in I 've repent . ''
`` That 's right -- that 's right , Anne .
But do n't tell Marilla I say anything about it .
She might think I be put my oar in and I promise not to do that . ''
`` Wild horse wo n't drag the secret from me , '' promise Anne solemnly .
`` How would wild horse drag a secret from a person anyhow ? ''
But Matthew be go , scar at his own success .
He flee hastily to the remote corner of the horse pasture l Marilla should suspect what he have be up to .
Marilla herself , upon her return to the house , be agreeably surprised to hear a plaintive voice call , `` Marilla '' over the banister .
`` Well ? ''
she say , go into the hall .
`` I 'm sorry I lose my temper and say rude thing , and I 'm willing to go and tell Mrs. Lynde so . ''
`` Very well . ''
Marilla 's crispness give no sign of her relief .
She have be wonder what under the canopy she should do if Anne do not give in .
`` I 'll take you down after milk . ''
Accordingly , after milk , behold Marilla and Anne walk down the lane , the former erect and triumphant , the latter drooping and deject .
But halfway down Anne 's dejection vanish a if by enchantment .
She lift her head and step lightly along , her eye fix on the sunset sky and an air of subdue exhilaration about her .
Marilla behold the change disapprovingly .
This be no meek penitent such a it behoove her to take into the presence of the offended Mrs. Lynde .
`` What be you think of , Anne ? ''
she ask sharply .
`` I 'm imagine out what I must say to Mrs. Lynde , '' answer Anne dreamily .
This be satisfactory -- or should have be so .
But Marilla could not rid herself of the notion that something in her scheme of punishment be go askew .
Anne have no business to look so rapt and radiant .
Rapt and radiant Anne continue until they be in the very presence of Mrs. Lynde , who be sit knitting by her kitchen window .
Then the radiance vanish .
Mournful penitence appear on every feature .
Before a word be speak Anne suddenly go down on her knee before the astonished Mrs. Rachel and hold out her hand beseechingly .
`` Oh , Mrs. Lynde , I be so extremely sorry , '' she say with a quiver in her voice .
`` I could never express all my sorrow , no , not if I use up a whole dictionary .
You must just imagine it .
I behave terribly to you -- and I 've disgrace the dear friend , Matthew and Marilla , who have let me stay at Green Gables although I 'm not a boy .
I 'm a dreadfully wicked and ungrateful girl , and I deserve to be punish and cast out by respectable people forever .
It be very wicked of me to fly into a temper because you tell me the truth .
It WAS the truth ; every word you say be true .
My hair be red and I 'm freckled and skinny and ugly .
What I say to you be true , too , but I should n't have say it .
Oh , Mrs. Lynde , please , please , forgive me .
If you refuse it will be a lifelong sorrow on a poor little orphan girl , would you , even if she have a dreadful temper ?
Oh , I be sure you would n't .
Please say you forgive me , Mrs. Lynde . ''
Anne clasp her hand together , bow her head , and wait for the word of judgment .
There be no mistake her sincerity -- it breathe in every tone of her voice .
Both Marilla and Mrs. Lynde recognize it unmistakable ring .
But the former under-stood in dismay that Anne be actually enjoy her valley of humiliation -- be revel in the thoroughness of her abasement .
Where be the wholesome punishment upon which she , Marilla , have plume herself ?
Anne have turn it into a specie of positive pleasure .
Good Mrs. Lynde , not be overburden with perception , do not see this .
She only perceive that Anne have make a very thorough apology and all resentment vanish from her kindly , if somewhat officious , heart .
`` There , there , get up , child , '' she say heartily .
`` Of course I forgive you .
I guess I be a little too hard on you , anyway .
But I 'm such an outspoken person .
You just must n't mind me , that 's what .
It ca n't be deny your hair be terrible red ; but I know a girl once -- go to school with her , in fact -- whose hair be every mite as red a yours when she be young , but when she grow up it darken to a real handsome auburn .
I would n't be a mite surprised if yours do , too -- not a mite . ''
`` Oh , Mrs. Lynde ! ''
Anne draw a long breath a she rise to her foot .
`` You have give me a hope .
I shall always feel that you be a benefactor .
Oh , I could endure anything if I only think my hair would be a handsome auburn when I grow up .
It would be so much easy to be good if one 's hair be a handsome auburn , do n't you think ?
And now may I go out into your garden and sit on that bench under the apple-trees while you and Marilla be talk ?
There be so much more scope for imagination out there . ''
`` Laws , yes , run along , child .
And you can pick a bouquet of them white June lily over in the corner if you like . ''
As the door close behind Anne Mrs. Lynde get briskly up to light a lamp .
`` She 's a real odd little thing .
Take this chair , Marilla ; it 's easy than the one you 've get ; I just keep that for the hired boy to sit on .
Yes , she certainly be an odd child , but there be something kind of take about her after all .
I do n't feel so surprised at you and Matthew keep her a I do -- nor so sorry for you , either .
She may turn out all right .
Of course , she have a queer way of express herself -- a little too -- well , too kind of forcible , you know ; but she 'll likely get over that now that she 's come to live among civilized folk .
And then , her temper 's pretty quick , I guess ; but there 's one comfort , a child that have a quick temper , just blaze up and cool down , ai n't never likely to be sly or deceitful .
Preserve me from a sly child , that 's what .
On the whole , Marilla , I kind of like her . ''
When Marilla go home Anne come out of the fragrant twilight of the orchard with a sheaf of white narcissus in her hand .
`` I apologize pretty well , do n't I ? ''
she say proudly a they go down the lane .
`` I think since I have to do it I might as well do it thoroughly . ''
`` You do it thoroughly , all right enough , '' be Marilla 's comment .
Marilla be dismay at find herself inclined to laugh over the recollection .
She have also an uneasy feeling that she ought to scold Anne for apologize so well ; but then , that be ridiculous !
She compromise with her conscience by say severely : `` I hope you wo n't have occasion to make many more such apology .
I hope you 'll try to control your temper now , Anne . ''
`` That would n't be so hard if people would n't twit me about my look , '' say Anne with a sigh .
`` I do n't get cross about other thing ; but I 'm SO tired of be twit about my hair and it just make me boil right over .
Do you suppose my hair will really be a handsome auburn when I grow up ? ''
`` You should n't think so much about your look , Anne .
I 'm afraid you be a very vain little girl . ''
`` How can I be vain when I know I 'm homely ? ''
protest Anne .
`` I love pretty thing ; and I hate to look in the glass and see something that be n't pretty .
It make me feel so sorrowful -- just a I feel when I look at any ugly thing .
I pity it because it be n't beautiful . ''
`` Handsome be a handsome do , '' quote Marilla .
`` I 've have that say to me before , but I have my doubt about it , '' remark skeptical Anne , sniff at her narcissus .
`` Oh , be n't these flower sweet !
It be lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give them to me .
I have no hard feeling against Mrs. Lynde now .
It give you a lovely , comfortable feeling to apologize and be forgive , do n't it ?
Are n't the star bright tonight ?
If you could live in a star , which one would you pick ?
I 'd like that lovely clear big one away over there above that dark hill . ''
`` Anne , do hold your tongue , '' say Marilla , thoroughly wear out try to follow the gyration of Anne 's thought .
Anne say no more until they turn into their own lane .
A little gypsy wind come down it to meet them , lade with the spicy perfume of young dew-wet fern .
Far up in the shadow a cheerful light gleam out through the tree from the kitchen at Green Gables .
Anne suddenly come close to Marilla and slip her hand into the old woman 's hard palm .
`` It 's lovely to be go home and know it 's home , '' she say .
`` I love Green Gables already , and I never love any place before .
No place ever seem like home .
Oh , Marilla , I 'm so happy .
I could pray right now and not find it a bit hard . ''
Something warm and pleasant well up in Marilla 's heart at touch of that thin little hand in her own -- a throb of the maternity she have miss , perhaps .
Its very unaccustomedness and sweetness disturb her .
She hasten to restore her sensation to their normal calm by inculcate a moral .
`` If you 'll be a good girl you 'll always be happy , Anne .
And you should never find it hard to say your prayer . ''
`` Saying one 's prayer be n't exactly the same thing a praying , '' say Anne meditatively .
`` But I 'm go to imagine that I 'm the wind that be blow up there in those tree top .
When I get tire of the tree I 'll imagine I 'm gently wave down here in the fern -- and then I 'll fly over to Mrs. Lynde 's garden and set the flower dance -- and then I 'll go with one great swoop over the clover field -- and then I 'll blow over the Lake of Shining Waters and ripple it all up into little sparkling wave .
Oh , there 's so much scope for imagination in a wind !
So I 'll not talk any more just now , Marilla . ''
`` Thanks be to goodness for that , '' breathe Marilla in devout relief .
CHAPTER XI .
Anne 's Impressions of Sunday-School `` Well , how do you like them ? ''
say Marilla .
Anne be stand in the gable room , look solemnly at three new dress spread out on the bed .
One be of snuffy color gingham which Marilla have be tempt to buy from a peddler the precede summer because it look so serviceable ; one be of black-and-white checkered sateen which she have pick up at a bargain counter in the winter ; and one be a stiff print of an ugly blue shade which she have purchase that week at a Carmody store .
She have make them up herself , and they be all make alike -- plain skirt full tightly to plain waist , with sleeve as plain a waist and skirt and tight a sleeve could be .
`` I 'll imagine that I like them , '' say Anne soberly .
`` I do n't want you to imagine it , '' say Marilla , offend .
`` Oh , I can see you do n't like the dress !
What be the matter with them ?
Are n't they neat and clean and new ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then why do n't you like them ? ''
`` They 're -- they 're not -- pretty , '' say Anne reluctantly .
`` Pretty ! ''
Marilla sniffed .
`` I do n't trouble my head about get pretty dress for you .
I do n't believe in pamper vanity , Anne , I 'll tell you that right off .
Those dress be good , sensible , serviceable dress , without any frill or furbelow about them , and they 're all you 'll get this summer .
The brown gingham and the blue print will do you for school when you begin to go .
The sateen be for church and Sunday school .
I 'll expect you to keep them neat and clean and not to tear them .
I should think you 'd be grateful to get most anything after those skimpy wincey thing you 've be wear . ''
`` Oh , I AM grateful , '' protest Anne .
`` But I 'd be ever so much gratefuller if -- if you 'd make just one of them with puffed sleeve .
Puffed sleeve be so fashionable now .
It would give me such a thrill , Marilla , just to wear a dress with puffed sleeve . ''
`` Well , you 'll have to do without your thrill .
I have n't any material to waste on puffed sleeve .
I think they be ridiculous-looking thing anyhow .
I prefer the plain , sensible one . ''
`` But I 'd rather look ridiculous when everybody else do than plain and sensible all by myself , '' persist Anne mournfully .
`` Trust you for that !
Well , hang those dress carefully up in your closet , and then sit down and learn the Sunday school lesson .
I get a quarterly from Mr. Bell for you and you 'll go to Sunday school tomorrow , '' say Marilla , disappear downstairs in high dudgeon .
Anne clasp her hand and look at the dress .
`` I do hope there would be a white one with puffed sleeve , '' she whisper disconsolately .
`` I pray for one , but I do n't much expect it on that account .
I do n't suppose God would have time to bother about a little orphan girl 's dress .
I know I 'd just have to depend on Marilla for it .
Well , fortunately I can imagine that one of them be of snow-white muslin with lovely lace frill and three-puffed sleeve . ''
The next morning warning of a sick headache prevent Marilla from go to Sunday-school with Anne .
`` You 'll have to go down and call for Mrs. Lynde , Anne , '' she say .
`` She 'll see that you get into the right class .
Now , mind you behave yourself properly .
Stay to preach afterwards and ask Mrs. Lynde to show you our pew .
Here 's a cent for collection .
Do n't stare at people and do n't fidget .
I shall expect you to tell me the text when you come home . ''
Anne start off irreproachable , array in the stiff black-and-white sateen , which , while decent a regard length and certainly not open to the charge of skimpiness , contrive to emphasize every corner and angle of her thin figure .
Her hat be a little , flat , glossy , new sailor , the extreme plainness of which have likewise much disappointed Anne , who have permit herself secret vision of ribbon and flower .
The latter , however , be supply before Anne reach the main road , for be confront halfway down the lane with a golden frenzy of wind-stirred buttercup and a glory of wild rose , Anne promptly and liberally garland her hat with a heavy wreath of them .
Whatever other people might have think of the result it satisfy Anne , and she trip gaily down the road , hold her ruddy head with it decoration of pink and yellow very proudly .
When she have reach Mrs. Lynde 's house she find that lady go .
Nothing daunt , Anne proceed onward to the church alone .
In the porch she find a crowd of little girl , all more or less gaily attire in white and blue and pink , and all star with curious eye at this stranger in their midst , with her extraordinary head adornment .
Avonlea little girl have already hear queer story about Anne .
Mrs. Lynde say she have an awful temper ; Jerry Buote , the hired boy at Green Gables , say she talk all the time to herself or to the tree and flower like a crazy girl .
They look at her and whisper to each other behind their quarterly .
Nobody make any friendly advance , then or later on when the opening exercise be over and Anne find herself in Miss Rogerson 's class .
Miss Rogerson be a middle-aged lady who have teach a Sunday-school class for twenty year .
Her method of teach be to ask the printed question from the quarterly and look sternly over it edge at the particular little girl she think ought to answer the question .
She look very often at Anne , and Anne , thanks to Marilla 's drilling , answer promptly ; but it may be question if she understand very much about either question or answer .
She do not think she like Miss Rogerson , and she felt very miserable ; every other little girl in the class have puff sleeve .
Anne felt that life be really not worth live without puffed sleeve .
`` Well , how do you like Sunday school ? ''
Marilla want to know when Anne come home .
Her wreath have fade , Anne have discard it in the lane , so Marilla be spar the knowledge of that for a time .
`` I do n't like it a bit .
It be horrid . ''
`` Anne Shirley ! ''
say Marilla rebukingly .
Anne sit down on the rocker with a long sigh , kiss one of Bonny 's leaf , and wave her hand to a blossoming fuchsia .
`` They might have be lonesome while I be away , '' she explain .
`` And now about the Sunday school .
I behave well , just a you tell me .
Mrs. Lynde be go , but I go right on myself .
I go into the church , with a lot of other little girl , and I sit in the corner of a pew by the window while the opening exercise go on .
Mr. Bell make an awfully long prayer .
I would have be dreadfully tire before he get through if I have n't be sit by that window .
But it look right out on the Lake of Shining Waters , so I just gaze at that and imagine all sort of splendid thing . ''
`` You should n't have do anything of the sort .
You should have listen to Mr. Bell . ''
`` But he be n't talk to me , '' protest Anne .
`` He be talk to God and he do n't seem to be very much inter-ested in it , either .
I think he think God be too far off though .
There be a long row of white birch hang over the lake and the sunshine fell down through them , ` way , ` way down , deep into the water .
Oh , Marilla , it be like a beautiful dream !
It give me a thrill and I just say , ` Thank you for it , God , ' two or three time . ''
`` Not out loud , I hope , '' say Marilla anxiously .
`` Oh , no , just under my breath .
Well , Mr. Bell do get through at last and they tell me to go into the classroom with Miss Rogerson 's class .
There be nine other girl in it .
They all have puff sleeve .
I try to imagine mine be puff , too , but I could n't .
Why could n't I ?
It be as easy a could be to imagine they be puff when I be alone in the east gable , but it be awfully hard there among the others who have really truly puff . ''
`` You should n't have be think about your sleeve in Sunday school .
You should have be attend to the lesson .
I hope you know it . ''
`` Oh , yes ; and I answer a lot of question .
Miss Rogerson ask ever so many .
I do n't think it be fair for her to do all the asking .
There be lot I want to ask her , but I do n't like to because I do n't think she be a kindred spirit .
Then all the other little girl recite a paraphrase .
She ask me if I know any .
I tell her I do n't , but I could recite , ` The Dog at His Master 's Grave ' if she like .
That 's in the Third Royal Reader .
It be n't a really truly religious piece of poetry , but it 's so sad and melancholy that it might as well be .
She say it would n't do and she tell me to learn the nineteenth paraphrase for next Sunday .
I read it over in church afterwards and it 's splendid .
There be two line in particular that just thrill me . ''
` Quick a the slaughtered squadron fell In Midian 's evil day . '
`` I do n't know what ` squadron ' mean nor ` Midian , ' either , but it sound SO tragical .
I can hardly wait until next Sunday to recite it .
I 'll practice it all the week .
After Sunday school I ask Miss Rogerson -- because Mrs. Lynde be too far away -- to show me your pew .
I sit just as still a I could and the text be Revelations , third chapter , second and third verse .
It be a very long text .
If I be a minister I 'd pick the short , snappy one .
The sermon be awfully long , too .
I suppose the minister have to match it to the text .
I do n't think he be a bit interesting .
The trouble with him seem to be that he have n't enough imagination .
I do n't listen to him very much .
I just let my thought run and I think of the most surprising thing . ''
Marilla felt helplessly that all this should be sternly reprove , but she be hamper by the undeniable fact that some of the thing Anne have say , especially about the minister 's sermon and Mr. Bell 's prayer , be what she herself have really think deep down in her heart for year , but have never give expression to .
It almost seem to her that those secret , unuttered , critical thought have suddenly take visible and accusing shape and form in the person of this outspoken morsel of neglected humanity .
CHAPTER XII .
A Solemn Vow and Promise It be not until the next Friday that Marilla hear the story of the flower-wreathed hat .
She come home from Mrs. Lynde 's and call Anne to account .
`` Anne , Mrs. Rachel say you go to church last Sunday with your hat rig out ridiculous with rose and buttercup .
What on earth put you up to such a caper ?
A pretty-looking object you must have be ! ''
`` Oh .
I know pink and yellow be n't become to me , '' begin Anne .
`` Becoming fiddlestick !
It be put flower on your hat at all , no matter what color they be , that be ridiculous .
You be the most aggravating child ! ''
`` I do n't see why it 's any more ridiculous to wear flower on your hat than on your dress , '' protest Anne .
`` Lots of little girl there have bouquet pin on their dress .
What 's the difference ? ''
Marilla be not to be draw from the safe concrete into dubious path of the abstract .
`` Do n't answer me back like that , Anne .
It be very silly of you to do such a thing .
Never let me catch you at such a trick again .
Mrs. Rachel say she think she would sink through the floor when she saw you come in all rig out like that .
She could n't get near enough to tell you to take them off till it be too late .
She say people talk about it something dreadful .
Of course they would think I have no good sense than to let you go deck out like that . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry , '' say Anne , tear well into her eye .
`` I never think you 'd mind .
The rose and buttercup be so sweet and pretty I think they 'd look lovely on my hat .
Lots of the little girl have artificial flower on their hat .
I 'm afraid I 'm go to be a dreadful trial to you .
Maybe you 'd better send me back to the asylum .
That would be terrible ; I do n't think I could endure it ; most likely I would go into consumption ; I 'm so thin a it be , you see .
But that would be good than be a trial to you . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Marilla , vex at herself for have make the child cry .
`` I do n't want to send you back to the asylum , I 'm sure .
All I want be that you should behave like other little girl and not make yourself ridiculous .
Do n't cry any more .
I 've get some news for you .
Diana Barry come home this afternoon .
I 'm go up to see if I can borrow a skirt pattern from Mrs. Barry , and if you like you can come with me and get acquaint with Diana . ''
Anne rise to her foot , with clasped hand , the tear still glisten on her cheek ; the dish towel she have be hem slip unheeded to the floor .
`` Oh , Marilla , I 'm frightened -- now that it have come I 'm actually frighten .
What if she should n't like me !
It would be the most tragical disappointment of my life . ''
`` Now , do n't get into a fluster .
And I do wish you would n't use such long word .
It sound so funny in a little girl .
I guess Diana 'll like you well enough .
It 's her mother you 've get to reckon with .
If she do n't like you it wo n't matter how much Diana do .
If she have hear about your outburst to Mrs. Lynde and go to church with buttercup round your hat I do n't know what she 'll think of you .
You must be polite and well behave , and do n't make any of your startle speech .
For pity 's sake , if the child be n't actually tremble ! ''
Anne WAS tremble .
Her face be pale and tense .
`` Oh , Marilla , you 'd be excite , too , if you be go to meet a little girl you hop to be your bosom friend and whose mother might n't like you , '' she say a she hasten to get her hat .
They go over to Orchard Slope by the short cut across the brook and up the firry hill grove .
Mrs. Barry come to the kitchen door in answer to Marilla 's knock .
She be a tall black-eyed , black-haired woman , with a very resolute mouth .
She have the reputation of be very strict with her child .
`` How do you do , Marilla ? ''
she say cordially .
`` Come in .
And this be the little girl you have adopt , I suppose ? ''
`` Yes , this be Anne Shirley , '' say Marilla .
`` Spelled with an E , '' gasp Anne , who , tremulous and excite a she be , be determine there should be no misunderstand on that important point .
Mrs. Barry , not hear or not comprehend , merely shook hand and say kindly : `` How be you ? ''
`` I be well in body although considerable rumple up in spirit , thank you ma'am , '' say Anne gravely .
Then aside to Marilla in an audible whisper , `` There be n't anything startle in that , be there , Marilla ? ''
Diana be sit on the sofa , read a book which she drop when the caller enter .
She be a very pretty little girl , with her mother 's black eye and hair , and rosy cheek , and the merry expression which be her inheritance from her father .
`` This be my little girl Diana , '' say Mrs. Barry .
`` Diana , you might take Anne out into the garden and show her your flower .
It will be good for you than strain your eye over that book .
She read entirely too much -- '' this to Marilla a the little girl go out -- `` and I ca n't prevent her , for her father aid and abet her .
She 's always pore over a book .
I 'm glad she have the prospect of a playmate -- perhaps it will take her more out-of-doors . ''
Outside in the garden , which be full of mellow sunset light stream through the dark old fir to the west of it , stand Anne and Diana , gaze bashfully at each other over a clump of gorgeous tiger lily .
The Barry garden be a bowery wilderness of flower which would have delight Anne 's heart at any time less fraught with destiny .
It be encircle by huge old willow and tall fir , beneath which flourish flower that love the shade .
Prim , right-angled path neatly border with clamshell , intersect it like moist red ribbon and in the bed between old-fashioned flower run riot .
There be rosy bleeding-hearts and great splendid crimson peony ; white , fragrant narcissus and thorny , sweet Scotch roses ; pink and blue and white columbine and lilac-tinted Bouncing Bets ; clump of southernwood and ribbon grass and mint ; purple Adam-and-Eve , daffodils , and mass of sweet clover white with it delicate , fragrant , feathery spray ; scarlet lightning that shot it fiery lance over prim white musk-flowers ; a garden it be where sunshine linger and bee hum , and wind , beguile into loitering , purr and rustle .
`` Oh , Diana , '' say Anne at last , clasp her hand and speak almost in a whisper , `` oh , do you think you can like me a little -- enough to be my bosom friend ? ''
Diana laugh .
Diana always laugh before she speak .
`` Why , I guess so , '' she say frankly .
`` I 'm awfully glad you 've come to live at Green Gables .
It will be jolly to have somebody to play with .
There be n't any other girl who live near enough to play with , and I 've no sister big enough . ''
`` Will you swear to be my friend forever and ever ? ''
demand Anne eagerly .
Diana look shocked .
`` Why it 's dreadfully wicked to swear , '' she say rebukingly .
`` Oh no , not my kind of swearing .
There be two kind , you know . ''
`` I never heard of but one kind , '' say Diana doubtfully .
`` There really be another .
Oh , it be n't wicked at all .
It just mean vow and promise solemnly . ''
`` Well , I do n't mind do that , '' agree Diana , relieve .
`` How do you do it ? ''
`` We must join hand -- so , '' say Anne gravely .
`` It ought to be over running water .
We 'll just imagine this path be run water .
I 'll repeat the oath first .
I solemnly swear to be faithful to my bosom friend , Diana Barry , as long a the sun and moon shall endure .
Now you say it and put my name in . ''
Diana repeat the `` oath '' with a laugh fore and aft .
Then she say : `` You 're a queer girl , Anne .
I hear before that you be queer .
But I believe I 'm go to like you real well . ''
When Marilla and Anne go home Diana go with them as for a the log bridge .
The two little girl walk with their arm about each other .
At the brook they part with many promise to spend the next afternoon together .
`` Well , do you find Diana a kindred spirit ? ''
ask Marilla a they go up through the garden of Green Gables .
`` Oh yes , '' sigh Anne , blissfully unconscious of any sarcasm on Marilla 's part .
`` Oh Marilla , I 'm the happy girl on Prince Edward Island this very moment .
I assure you I 'll say my prayer with a right good-will tonight .
Diana and I be go to build a playhouse in Mr. William Bell 's birch grove tomorrow .
Can I have those broken piece of china that be out in the woodshed ?
Diana 's birthday be in February and mine be in March .
Do n't you think that be a very strange coincidence ?
Diana be go to lend me a book to read .
She say it 's perfectly splendid and tremendously exciting .
She 's go to show me a place back in the wood where rice lily grow .
Do n't you think Diana have get very soulful eye ?
I wish I have soulful eye .
Diana be go to teach me to sing a song call ` Nelly in the Hazel Dell . '
She 's go to give me a picture to put up in my room ; it 's a perfectly beautiful picture , she say -- a lovely lady in a pale blue silk dress .
A sewing-machine agent give it to her .
I wish I have something to give Diana .
I 'm an inch taller than Diana , but she be ever so much fatter ; she say she 'd like to be thin because it 's so much more graceful , but I 'm afraid she only say it to soothe my feeling .
We 're go to the shore some day to gather shell .
We have agree to call the spring down by the log bridge the Dryad 's Bubble .
Is n't that a perfectly elegant name ?
I read a story once about a spring call that .
A dryad be sort of a grown-up fairy , I think . ''
`` Well , all I hope be you wo n't talk Diana to death , '' say Marilla .
`` But remember this in all your planning , Anne .
You 're not go to play all the time nor most of it .
You 'll have your work to do and it 'll have to be do first . ''
Anne 's cup of happiness be full , and Matthew cause it to overflow .
He have just get home from a trip to the store at Carmody , and he sheepishly produce a small parcel from his pocket and hand it to Anne , with a deprecatory look at Marilla .
`` I hear you say you liked chocolate sweetie , so I get you some , '' he say .
`` Humph , '' sniff Marilla .
`` It 'll ruin her teeth and stomach .
There , there , child , do n't look so dismal .
You can eat those , since Matthew have go and get them .
He 'd well have bring you peppermint .
They 're wholesomer .
Do n't sicken yourself eat all them at once now . ''
`` Oh , no , indeed , I wo n't , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` I 'll just eat one tonight , Marilla .
And I can give Diana half of them , ca n't I ?
The other half will taste twice as sweet to me if I give some to her .
It 's delightful to think I have something to give her . ''
`` I will say it for the child , '' say Marilla when Anne have go to her gable , `` she be n't stingy .
I 'm glad , for of all fault I detest stinginess in a child .
Dear me , it 's only three week since she come , and it seem a if she 'd be here always .
I ca n't imagine the place without her .
Now , do n't be look I told-you-so , Matthew .
That 's bad enough in a woman , but it be n't to be endure in a man .
I 'm perfectly willing to own up that I 'm glad I consent to keep the child and that I 'm get fond of her , but do n't you rub it in , Matthew Cuthbert . ''
CHAPTER XIII .
The Delights of Anticipation `` It 's time Anne be in to do her sewing , '' say Marilla , glance at the clock and then out into the yellow August afternoon where everything drowse in the heat .
`` She stay play with Diana more than half an hour more 'n I give her leave to ; and now she 's perch out there on the woodpile talk to Matthew , nineteen to the dozen , when she know perfectly well she ought to be at her work .
And of course he 's listen to her like a perfect ninny .
I never saw such an infatuated man .
The more she talk and the odder the thing she say , the more he 's delighted evidently .
Anne Shirley , you come right in here this minute , do you hear me ! ''
A series of staccato tap on the west window bring Anne fly in from the yard , eye shin , cheek faintly flush with pink , unbraided hair stream behind her in a torrent of brightness .
`` Oh , Marilla , '' she exclaim breathlessly , `` there 's go to be a Sunday-school picnic next week -- in Mr. Harmon Andrews 's field , right near the lake of Shining Waters .
And Mrs . Superintendent Bell and Mrs. Rachel Lynde be go to make ice cream -- think of it , Marilla -- ICE CREAM !
And , oh , Marilla , can I go to it ? ''
`` Just look at the clock , if you please , Anne .
What time do I tell you to come in ? ''
`` Two o'clock -- but be n't it splendid about the picnic , Marilla ?
Please can I go ?
Oh , I 've never be to a picnic -- I 've dream of picnic , but I 've never -- '' `` Yes , I tell you to come at two o'clock .
And it 's a quarter to three .
I 'd like to know why you do n't obey me , Anne . ''
`` Why , I mean to , Marilla , as much a could be .
But you have no idea how fascinating Idlewild be .
And then , of course , I have to tell Matthew about the picnic .
Matthew be such a sympathetic listener .
Please can I go ? ''
`` You 'll have to learn to resist the fascination of Idle-whatever-you-call-it .
When I tell you to come in at a certain time I mean that time and not half an hour later .
And you need n't stop to discourse with sympathetic listener on your way , either .
As for the picnic , of course you can go .
You 're a Sunday-school scholar , and it 's not likely I 'd refuse to let you go when all the other little girl be go . ''
`` But -- but , '' falter Anne , `` Diana say that everybody must take a basket of thing to eat .
I ca n't cook , a you know , Marilla , and -- and -- I do n't mind go to a picnic without puffed sleeve so much , but I 'd feel terribly humiliate if I have to go without a basket .
It 's be prey on my mind ever since Diana tell me . ''
`` Well , it need n't prey any long .
I 'll bake you a basket . ''
`` Oh , you dear good Marilla .
Oh , you be so kind to me .
Oh , I 'm so much oblige to you . ''
Getting through with her `` ohs '' Anne cast herself into Marilla 's arm and rapturously kiss her sallow cheek .
It be the first time in her whole life that childish lip have voluntarily touch Marilla 's face .
Again that sudden sensation of startle sweetness thrill her .
She be secretly vastly please at Anne 's impulsive caress , which be probably the reason why she say brusquely : `` There , there , never mind your kiss nonsense .
I 'd sooner see you do strictly a you 're tell .
As for cooking , I mean to begin give you lesson in that some of these day .
But you 're so featherbrained , Anne , I 've be wait to see if you 'd sober down a little and learn to be steady before I begin .
You 've get to keep your wit about you in cook and not stop in the middle of thing to let your thought rove all over creation .
Now , get out your patchwork and have your square do before teatime . ''
`` I do NOT like patchwork , '' say Anne dolefully , hunt out her workbasket and sit down before a little heap of red and white diamond with a sigh .
`` I think some kind of sew would be nice ; but there 's no scope for imagination in patchwork .
It 's just one little seam after another and you never seem to be get anywhere .
But of course I 'd rather be Anne of Green Gables sew patchwork than Anne of any other place with nothing to do but play .
I wish time go a quick sew patch a it do when I 'm play with Diana , though .
Oh , we do have such elegant time , Marilla .
I have to furnish most of the imagination , but I 'm well able to do that .
Diana be simply perfect in every other way .
You know that little piece of land across the brook that run up between our farm and Mr. Barry 's .
It belong to Mr. William Bell , and right in the corner there be a little ring of white birch tree -- the most romantic spot , Marilla .
Diana and I have our playhouse there .
We call it Idlewild .
Is n't that a poetical name ?
I assure you it take me some time to think it out .
I stay awake nearly a whole night before I invent it .
Then , just a I be drop off to sleep , it come like an inspiration .
Diana be ENRAPTURED when she hear it .
We have get our house fix up elegantly .
You must come and see it , Marilla -- wo n't you ?
We have great big stone , all cover with moss , for seat , and board from tree to tree for shelf .
And we have all our dish on them .
Of course , they 're all broken but it 's the easy thing in the world to imagine that they be whole .
There 's a piece of a plate with a spray of red and yellow ivy on it that be especially beautiful .
We keep it in the parlor and we have the fairy glass there , too .
The fairy glass be as lovely a a dream .
Diana find it out in the wood behind their chicken house .
It 's all full of rainbow -- just little young rainbow that have n't grow big yet -- and Diana 's mother tell her it be break off a hang lamp they once have .
But it 's nice to imagine the fairy lose it one night when they have a ball , so we call it the fairy glass .
Matthew be go to make u a table .
Oh , we have name that little round pool over in Mr. Barry 's field Willowmere .
I get that name out of the book Diana lent me .
That be a thrilling book , Marilla .
The heroine have five lover .
I 'd be satisfy with one , would n't you ?
She be very handsome and she go through great tribulation .
She could faint as easy a anything .
I 'd love to be able to faint , would n't you , Marilla ?
It 's so romantic .
But I 'm really very healthy for all I 'm so thin .
I believe I 'm get fatter , though .
Do n't you think I be ?
I look at my elbow every morning when I get up to see if any dimple be come .
Diana be have a new dress make with elbow sleeve .
She be go to wear it to the picnic .
Oh , I do hope it will be fine next Wednesday .
I do n't feel that I could endure the disappointment if anything happen to prevent me from get to the picnic .
I suppose I 'd live through it , but I 'm certain it would be a lifelong sorrow .
It would n't matter if I get to a hundred picnic in after year ; they would n't make up for miss this one .
They 're go to have boat on the Lake of Shining Waters -- and ice cream , a I tell you .
I have never taste ice cream .
Diana try to explain what it be like , but I guess ice cream be one of those thing that be beyond imagination . ''
`` Anne , you have talk even on for ten minute by the clock , '' say Marilla .
`` Now , just for curiosity 's sake , see if you can hold your tongue for the same length of time . ''
Anne hold her tongue a desire .
But for the rest of the week she talk picnic and think picnic and dream picnic .
On Saturday it rain and she work herself up into such a frantic state lest it should keep on rain until and over Wednesday that Marilla make her sew an extra patchwork square by way of steady her nerve .
On Sunday Anne confide to Marilla on the way home from church that she grow actually cold all over with excitement when the minister announce the picnic from the pulpit .
`` Such a thrill a go up and down my back , Marilla !
I do n't think I 'd ever really believe until then that there be honestly go to be a picnic .
I could n't help fear I 'd only imagine it .
But when a minister say a thing in the pulpit you just have to believe it . ''
`` You set your heart too much on thing , Anne , '' say Marilla , with a sigh .
`` I 'm afraid there 'll be a great many disappointment in store for you through life . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , look forward to thing be half the pleasure of them , '' exclaim Anne .
`` You may n't get the thing themselves ; but nothing can prevent you from have the fun of look forward to them .
Mrs. Lynde say , ` Blessed be they who expect nothing for they shall not be disappoint . '
But I think it would be bad to expect nothing than to be disappoint . ''
Marilla wear her amethyst brooch to church that day a usual .
Marilla always wear her amethyst brooch to church .
She would have think it rather sacrilegious to leave it off -- as bad a forget her Bible or her collection dime .
That amethyst brooch be Marilla 's most treasured possession .
A seafaring uncle have give it to her mother who in turn have bequeath it to Marilla .
It be an old-fashioned oval , contain a braid of her mother 's hair , surround by a border of very fine amethyst .
Marilla know too little about precious stone to realize how fine the amethyst actually be ; but she think them very beautiful and be always pleasantly conscious of their violet shimmer at her throat , above her good brown satin dress , even although she could not see it .
Anne have be smite with delighted admiration when she first saw that brooch .
`` Oh , Marilla , it 's a perfectly elegant brooch .
I do n't know how you can pay attention to the sermon or the prayer when you have it on .
I could n't , I know .
I think amethyst be just sweet .
They be what I use to think diamond be like .
Long ago , before I have ever see a diamond , I read about them and I try to imagine what they would be like .
I think they would be lovely glimmer purple stone .
When I saw a real diamond in a lady 's ring one day I be so disappointed I cry .
Of course , it be very lovely but it be n't my idea of a diamond .
Will you let me hold the brooch for one minute , Marilla ?
Do you think amethyst can be the soul of good violet ? ''
CHAPTER XIV .
Anne 's Confession ON the Monday evening before the picnic Marilla come down from her room with a troubled face .
`` Anne , '' she say to that small personage , who be shell peas by the spotless table and singing , `` Nelly of the Hazel Dell '' with a vigor and expression that do credit to Diana 's teaching , `` do you see anything of my amethyst brooch ?
I think I stick it in my pincushion when I come home from church yesterday evening , but I ca n't find it anywhere . ''
`` I -- I saw it this afternoon when you be away at the Aid Society , '' say Anne , a little slowly .
`` I be pass your door when I saw it on the cushion , so I go in to look at it . ''
`` Did you touch it ? ''
say Marilla sternly .
`` Y-e-e-s , '' admit Anne , `` I take it up and I pin it on my breast just to see how it would look . ''
`` You have no business to do anything of the sort .
It 's very wrong in a little girl to meddle .
You should n't have go into my room in the first place and you should n't have touch a brooch that do n't belong to you in the second .
Where do you put it ? ''
`` Oh , I put it back on the bureau .
I have n't it on a minute .
Truly , I do n't mean to meddle , Marilla .
I do n't think about it be wrong to go in and try on the brooch ; but I see now that it be and I 'll never do it again .
That 's one good thing about me .
I never do the same naughty thing twice . ''
`` You do n't put it back , '' say Marilla .
`` That brooch be n't anywhere on the bureau .
You 've take it out or something , Anne . ''
`` I do put it back , '' say Anne quickly -- pertly , Marilla think .
`` I do n't just remember whether I stick it on the pincushion or laid it in the china tray .
But I 'm perfectly certain I put it back . ''
`` I 'll go and have another look , '' say Marilla , determine to be just .
`` If you put that brooch back it 's there still .
If it be n't I 'll know you do n't , that 's all ! ''
Marilla go to her room and make a thorough search , not only over the bureau but in every other place she think the brooch might possibly be .
It be not to be find and she return to the kitchen .
`` Anne , the brooch be go .
By your own admission you be the last person to handle it .
Now , what have you do with it ?
Tell me the truth at once .
Did you take it out and lose it ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' say Anne solemnly , meet Marilla 's angry gaze squarely .
`` I never take the brooch out of your room and that be the truth , if I be to be lead to the block for it -- although I 'm not very certain what a block be .
So there , Marilla . ''
Anne 's `` so there '' be only intend to emphasize her assertion , but Marilla take it a a display of defiance .
`` I believe you be tell me a falsehood , Anne , '' she say sharply .
`` I know you be .
There now , do n't say anything more unless you be prepared to tell the whole truth .
Go to your room and stay there until you be ready to confess . ''
`` Will I take the pea with me ? ''
say Anne meekly .
`` No , I 'll finish shell them myself .
Do a I bid you . ''
When Anne have go Marilla go about her evening task in a very disturbed state of mind .
She be worried about her valuable brooch .
What if Anne have lose it ?
And how wicked of the child to deny have take it , when anybody could see she must have !
With such an innocent face , too !
`` I do n't know what I would n't sooner have have happen , '' think Marilla , a she nervously shell the pea .
`` Of course , I do n't suppose she mean to steal it or anything like that .
She 's just take it to play with or help along that imagination of hers .
She must have take it , that 's clear , for there have n't be a soul in that room since she be in it , by her own story , until I go up tonight .
And the brooch be go , there 's nothing surer .
I suppose she have lose it and be afraid to own up for fear she 'll be punish .
It 's a dreadful thing to think she tell falsehood .
It 's a far bad thing than her fit of temper .
It 's a fearful responsibility to have a child in your house you ca n't trust .
Slyness and untruthfulness -- that 's what she have display .
I declare I feel bad about that than about the brooch .
If she 'd only have tell the truth about it I would n't mind so much . ''
Marilla go to her room at interval all through the evening and search for the brooch , without find it .
A bedtime visit to the east gable produce no result .
Anne persist in deny that she know anything about the brooch but Marilla be only the more firmly convince that she do .
She tell Matthew the story the next morning .
Matthew be confound and puzzle ; he could not so quickly lose faith in Anne but he have to admit that circumstance be against her .
`` You 're sure it have n't fell down behind the bureau ? ''
be the only suggestion he could offer .
`` I 've move the bureau and I 've take out the drawer and I 've look in every crack and cranny '' be Marilla 's positive answer .
`` The brooch be go and that child have take it and lie about it .
That 's the plain , ugly truth , Matthew Cuthbert , and we might as well look it in the face . ''
`` Well now , what be you go to do about it ? ''
Matthew ask forlornly , feel secretly thankful that Marilla and not he have to deal with the situation .
He felt no desire to put his oar in this time .
`` She 'll stay in her room until she confess , '' say Marilla grimly , remember the success of this method in the former case .
`` Then we 'll see .
Perhaps we 'll be able to find the brooch if she 'll only tell where she take it ; but in any case she 'll have to be severely punish , Matthew . ''
`` Well now , you 'll have to punish her , '' say Matthew , reach for his hat .
`` I 've nothing to do with it , remember .
You warn me off yourself . ''
Marilla felt desert by everyone .
She could not even go to Mrs. Lynde for advice .
She go up to the east gable with a very serious face and leave it with a face more serious still .
Anne steadfastly refuse to confess .
She persist in assert that she have not take the brooch .
The child have evidently be cry and Marilla felt a pang of pity which she sternly repress .
By night she be , a she express it , `` beat out . ''
`` You 'll stay in this room until you confess , Anne .
You can make up your mind to that , '' she say firmly .
`` But the picnic be tomorrow , Marilla , '' cry Anne .
`` You wo n't keep me from go to that , will you ?
You 'll just let me out for the afternoon , wo n't you ?
Then I 'll stay here as long a you like AFTERWARDS cheerfully .
But I MUST go to the picnic . ''
`` You 'll not go to picnic nor anywhere else until you 've confess , Anne . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , '' gasp Anne .
But Marilla have go out and shut the door .
Wednesday morning dawn a bright and fair a if expressly make to order for the picnic .
Birds sing around Green Gables ; the Madonna lily in the garden send out whiff of perfume that enter in on viewless wind at every door and window , and wander through hall and room like spirit of benediction .
The birch in the hollow wave joyful hand a if watch for Anne 's usual morning greeting from the east gable .
But Anne be not at her window .
When Marilla take her breakfast up to her she find the child sit primly on her bed , pale and resolute , with tight-shut lip and gleam eye .
`` Marilla , I 'm ready to confess . ''
`` Ah ! ''
Marilla lay down her tray .
Once again her method have succeed ; but her success be very bitter to her .
`` Let me hear what you have to say then , Anne . ''
`` I take the amethyst brooch , '' say Anne , a if repeat a lesson she have learn .
`` I take it just a you say .
I do n't mean to take it when I go in .
But it do look so beautiful , Marilla , when I pin it on my breast that I be overcome by an irresistible temptation .
I imagine how perfectly thrill it would be to take it to Idlewild and play I be the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald .
It would be so much easy to imagine I be the Lady Cordelia if I have a real amethyst brooch on .
Diana and I make necklace of roseberries but what be roseberries compare to amethyst ?
So I take the brooch .
I think I could put it back before you come home .
I go all the way around by the road to lengthen out the time .
When I be go over the bridge across the Lake of Shining Waters I take the brooch off to have another look at it .
Oh , how it do shine in the sunlight !
And then , when I be lean over the bridge , it just slip through my finger -- so -- and go down -- down -- down , all purply-sparkling , and sink forevermore beneath the Lake of Shining Waters .
And that 's the best I can do at confessing , Marilla . ''
Marilla felt hot anger surge up into her heart again .
This child have take and lose her treasured amethyst brooch and now sit there calmly recite the detail thereof without the least apparent compunction or repentance .
`` Anne , this be terrible , '' she say , try to speak calmly .
`` You be the very wicked girl I ever heard of . ''
`` Yes , I suppose I be , '' agree Anne tranquilly .
`` And I know I 'll have to be punish .
It 'll be your duty to punish me , Marilla .
Wo n't you please get it over right off because I 'd like to go to the picnic with nothing on my mind . ''
`` Picnic , indeed !
You 'll go to no picnic today , Anne Shirley .
That shall be your punishment .
And it be n't half severe enough either for what you 've do ! ''
`` Not go to the picnic ! ''
Anne sprang to her foot and clutch Marilla 's hand .
`` But you PROMISED me I might !
Oh , Marilla , I must go to the picnic .
That be why I confess .
Punish me any way you like but that .
Oh , Marilla , please , please , let me go to the picnic .
Think of the ice cream !
For anything you know I may never have a chance to taste ice cream again . ''
Marilla disengage Anne 's cling hand stonily .
`` You need n't plead , Anne .
You be not go to the picnic and that 's final .
No , not a word . ''
Anne realize that Marilla be not to be move .
She clasp her hand together , give a piercing shriek , and then fling herself face downward on the bed , cry and writhe in an utter abandonment of disappointment and despair .
`` For the land 's sake ! ''
gasp Marilla , hasten from the room .
`` I believe the child be crazy .
No child in her sens would behave a she do .
If she be n't she 's utterly bad .
Oh dear , I 'm afraid Rachel be right from the first .
But I 've put my hand to the plow and I wo n't look back . ''
That be a dismal morning .
Marilla work fiercely and scrub the porch floor and the dairy shelf when she could find nothing else to do .
Neither the shelf nor the porch need it -- but Marilla do .
Then she go out and rake the yard .
When dinner be ready she go to the stair and call Anne .
A tear-stained face appear , look tragically over the banister .
`` Come down to your dinner , Anne . ''
`` I do n't want any dinner , Marilla , '' say Anne , sobbingly .
`` I could n't eat anything .
My heart be break .
You 'll feel remorse of conscience someday , I expect , for break it , Marilla , but I forgive you .
Remember when the time come that I forgive you .
But please do n't ask me to eat anything , especially boil pork and green .
Boiled pork and green be so unromantic when one be in affliction . ''
Exasperated , Marilla return to the kitchen and pour out her tale of woe to Matthew , who , between his sense of justice and his unlawful sympathy with Anne , be a miserable man .
`` Well now , she should n't have take the brooch , Marilla , or tell story about it , '' he admit , mournfully survey his plateful of unromantic pork and green a if he , like Anne , think it a food unsuited to crisis of feeling , `` but she 's such a little thing -- such an interesting little thing .
Do n't you think it 's pretty rough not to let her go to the picnic when she 's so set on it ? ''
`` Matthew Cuthbert , I 'm amaze at you .
I think I 've let her off entirely too easy .
And she do n't appear to realize how wicked she 's be at all -- that 's what worry me most .
If she 'd really felt sorry it would n't be so bad .
And you do n't seem to realize it , neither ; you 're make excuse for her all the time to yourself -- I can see that . ''
`` Well now , she 's such a little thing , '' feebly reiterate Matthew .
`` And there should be allowance make , Marilla .
You know she 's never have any bring up . ''
`` Well , she 's have it now '' retort Marilla .
The retort silence Matthew if it do not convince him .
That dinner be a very dismal meal .
The only cheerful thing about it be Jerry Buote , the hired boy , and Marilla resent his cheerfulness a a personal insult .
When her dish be washed and her bread sponge set and her hen feed Marilla remember that she have notice a small rent in her best black lace shawl when she have take it off on Monday afternoon on return from the Ladies ' Aid .
She would go and mend it .
The shawl be in a box in her trunk .
As Marilla lift it out , the sunlight , fall through the vine that cluster thickly about the window , strike upon something catch in the shawl -- something that glitter and sparkle in facet of violet light .
Marilla snatch at it with a gasp .
It be the amethyst brooch , hang to a thread of the lace by it catch !
`` Dear life and heart , '' say Marilla blankly , `` what do this mean ?
Here 's my brooch safe and sound that I think be at the bottom of Barry 's pond .
Whatever do that girl mean by say she take it and lose it ?
I declare I believe Green Gables be bewitch .
I remember now that when I take off my shawl Monday afternoon I lay it on the bureau for a minute .
I suppose the brooch get catch in it somehow .
Well ! ''
Marilla betook herself to the east gable , brooch in hand .
Anne have cry herself out and be sit dejectedly by the window .
`` Anne Shirley , '' say Marilla solemnly , `` I 've just find my brooch hang to my black lace shawl .
Now I want to know what that rigmarole you tell me this morning meant . ''
`` Why , you say you 'd keep me here until I confess , '' return Anne wearily , `` and so I decide to confess because I be bind to get to the picnic .
I think out a confession last night after I go to bed and make it as interesting a I could .
And I say it over and over so that I would n't forget it .
But you would n't let me go to the picnic after all , so all my trouble be waste . ''
Marilla have to laugh in spite of herself .
But her conscience prick her .
`` Anne , you do beat all !
But I be wrong -- I see that now .
I should n't have doubt your word when I 'd never know you to tell a story .
Of course , it be n't right for you to confess to a thing you have n't do -- it be very wrong to do so .
But I drive you to it .
So if you 'll forgive me , Anne , I 'll forgive you and we 'll start square again .
And now get yourself ready for the picnic . ''
Anne fly up like a rocket .
`` Oh , Marilla , be n't it too late ? ''
`` No , it 's only two o'clock .
They wo n't be more than well gather yet and it 'll be an hour before they have tea .
Wash your face and comb your hair and put on your gingham .
I 'll fill a basket for you .
There 's plenty of stuff bake in the house .
And I 'll get Jerry to hitch up the sorrel and drive you down to the picnic ground . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , '' exclaim Anne , fly to the washstand .
`` Five minute ago I be so miserable I be wish I 'd never be bear and now I would n't change place with an angel ! ''
That night a thoroughly happy , completely tired-out Anne return to Green Gables in a state of beatification impossible to describe .
`` Oh , Marilla , I 've have a perfectly scrumptious time .
Scrumptious be a new word I learn today .
I hear Mary Alice Bell use it .
Is n't it very expressive ?
Everything be lovely .
We have a splendid tea and then Mr. Harmon Andrews take u all for a row on the Lake of Shining Waters -- six of u at a time .
And Jane Andrews nearly fell overboard .
She be lean out to pick water lily and if Mr. Andrews have n't catch her by her sash just in the nick of time she 'd fall in and prob ` ly be drown .
I wish it have be me .
It would have be such a romantic experience to have be nearly drown .
It would be such a thrill tale to tell .
And we have the ice cream .
Words fail me to describe that ice cream .
Marilla , I assure you it be sublime . ''
That even Marilla tell the whole story to Matthew over her stocking basket .
`` I 'm willing to own up that I make a mistake , '' she conclude candidly , `` but I 've learn a lesson .
I have to laugh when I think of Anne 's ` confession , ' although I suppose I should n't for it really be a falsehood .
But it do n't seem as bad a the other would have be , somehow , and anyhow I 'm responsible for it .
That child be hard to understand in some respect .
But I believe she 'll turn out all right yet .
And there 's one thing certain , no house will ever be dull that she 's in . ''
CHAPTER XV .
A Tempest in the School Teapot `` What a splendid day ! ''
say Anne , draw a long breath .
`` Is n't it good just to be alive on a day like this ?
I pity the people who be n't bear yet for miss it .
They may have good day , of course , but they can never have this one .
And it 's splendid still to have such a lovely way to go to school by , be n't it ? ''
`` It 's a lot nicer than go round by the road ; that be so dusty and hot , '' say Diana practically , peep into her dinner basket and mentally calculate if the three juicy , toothsome , raspberry tart repose there be divide among ten girl how many bite each girl would have .
The little girl of Avonlea school always pool their lunch , and to eat three raspberry tarts all alone or even to share them only with one 's best chum would have forever and ever brand a `` awful mean '' the girl who do it .
And yet , when the tart be divide among ten girl you just get enough to tantalize you .
The way Anne and Diana go to school WAS a pretty one .
Anne think those walk to and from school with Diana could n't be improve upon even by imagination .
Going around by the main road would have be so unromantic ; but to go by Lover 's Lane and Willowmere and Violet Vale and the Birch Path be romantic , if ever anything be .
Lover 's Lane open out below the orchard at Green Gables and stretch far up into the wood to the end of the Cuthbert farm .
It be the way by which the cow be take to the back pasture and the wood haul home in winter .
Anne have name it Lover 's Lane before she have be a month at Green Gables .
`` Not that lover ever really walk there , '' she explain to Marilla , `` but Diana and I be read a perfectly magnificent book and there 's a Lover 's Lane in it .
So we want to have one , too .
And it 's a very pretty name , do n't you think ?
So romantic !
We ca n't imagine the lover into it , you know .
I like that lane because you can think out loud there without people call you crazy . ''
Anne , start out alone in the morning , go down Lover 's Lane as far a the brook .
Here Diana meet her , and the two little girl go on up the lane under the leafy arch of maple -- `` maple be such sociable tree , '' say Anne ; `` they 're always rustle and whisper to you '' -- until they come to a rustic bridge .
Then they leave the lane and walk through Mr. Barry 's back field and past Willowmere .
Beyond Willowmere come Violet Vale -- a little green dimple in the shadow of Mr. Andrew Bell 's big wood .
`` Of course there be no violet there now , '' Anne tell Marilla , `` but Diana say there be million of them in spring .
Oh , Marilla , ca n't you just imagine you see them ?
It actually take away my breath .
I name it Violet Vale .
Diana say she never saw the beat of me for hit on fancy name for place .
It 's nice to be clever at something , be n't it ?
But Diana name the Birch Path .
She want to , so I let her ; but I 'm sure I could have find something more poetical than plain Birch Path .
Anybody can think of a name like that .
But the Birch Path be one of the pretty place in the world , Marilla . ''
It be .
Other people besides Anne think so when they stumble on it .
It be a little narrow , twist path , wind down over a long hill straight through Mr. Bell 's wood , where the light come down sift through so many emerald screen that it be as flawless a the heart of a diamond .
It be fringe in all it length with slim young birch , white stem and lissom boughed ; fern and starflower and wild lilies-of-the-valley and scarlet tuft of pigeonberries grow thickly along it ; and always there be a delightful spiciness in the air and music of bird call and the murmur and laugh of wood wind in the tree overhead .
Now and then you might see a rabbit skip across the road if you be quiet -- which , with Anne and Diana , happen about once in a blue moon .
Down in the valley the path come out to the main road and then it be just up the spruce hill to the school .
The Avonlea school be a whitewashed building , low in the eaves and wide in the window , furnish inside with comfortable substantial old-fashioned desk that open and shut , and be carve all over their lid with the initial and hieroglyphic of three generation of school child .
The schoolhouse be set back from the road and behind it be a dusky fir wood and a brook where all the child put their bottle of milk in the morning to keep cool and sweet until dinner hour .
Marilla have see Anne start off to school on the first day of September with many secret misgiving .
Anne be such an odd girl .
How would she get on with the other child ?
And how on earth would she ever manage to hold her tongue during school hour ?
Things go good than Marilla fear , however .
Anne come home that even in high spirit .
`` I think I 'm go to like school here , '' she announce .
`` I do n't think much of the master , through .
He 's all the time curl his mustache and make eye at Prissy Andrews .
Prissy be grow up , you know .
She 's sixteen and she 's study for the entrance examination into Queen 's Academy at Charlottetown next year .
Tillie Boulter say the master be DEAD GONE on her .
She 's get a beautiful complexion and curly brown hair and she do it up so elegantly .
She sit in the long seat at the back and he sit there , too , most of the time -- to explain her lesson , he say .
But Ruby Gillis say she saw him write something on her slate and when Prissy read it she blush as red a a beet and giggle ; and Ruby Gillis say she do n't believe it have anything to do with the lesson . ''
`` Anne Shirley , do n't let me hear you talk about your teacher in that way again , '' say Marilla sharply .
`` You do n't go to school to criticize the master .
I guess he can teach YOU something , and it 's your business to learn .
And I want you to understand right off that you be not to come home telling tale about him .
That be something I wo n't encourage .
I hope you be a good girl . ''
`` Indeed I be , '' say Anne comfortably .
`` It be n't so hard a you might imagine , either .
I sit with Diana .
Our seat be right by the window and we can look down to the Lake of Shining Waters .
There be a lot of nice girl in school and we have scrumptious fun playing at dinnertime .
It 's so nice to have a lot of little girl to play with .
But of course I like Diana best and always will .
I ADORE Diana .
I 'm dreadfully far behind the others .
They 're all in the fifth book and I 'm only in the fourth .
I feel that it 's kind of a disgrace .
But there 's not one of them have such an imagination a I have and I soon find that out .
We have reading and geography and Canadian history and dictation today .
Mr. Phillips say my spelling be disgraceful and he hold up my slate so that everybody could see it , all mark over .
I felt so mortify , Marilla ; he might have be politer to a stranger , I think .
Ruby Gillis give me an apple and Sophia Sloane lend me a lovely pink card with ` May I see you home ? '
on it .
I 'm to give it back to her tomorrow .
And Tillie Boulter let me wear her bead ring all the afternoon .
Can I have some of those pearl bead off the old pincushion in the garret to make myself a ring ?
And oh , Marilla , Jane Andrews tell me that Minnie MacPherson tell her that she hear Prissy Andrews tell Sara Gillis that I have a very pretty nose .
Marilla , that be the first compliment I have ever have in my life and you ca n't imagine what a strange feeling it give me .
Marilla , have I really a pretty nose ?
I know you 'll tell me the truth . ''
`` Your nose be well enough , '' say Marilla shortly .
Secretly she think Anne 's nose be a remarkable pretty one ; but she have no intention of tell her so .
That be three week ago and all have go smoothly so far .
And now , this crisp September morning , Anne and Diana be trip blithely down the Birch Path , two of the happy little girl in Avonlea .
`` I guess Gilbert Blythe will be in school today , '' say Diana .
`` He 's be visit his cousin over in New Brunswick all summer and he only come home Saturday night .
He 's AW ` FLY handsome , Anne .
And he tease the girl something terrible .
He just torment our life out . ''
Diana 's voice indicate that she rather like have her life torment out than not .
`` Gilbert Blythe ? ''
say Anne .
`` Is n't his name that 's write up on the porch wall with Julia Bell 's and a big ` Take Notice ' over them ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Diana , toss her head , `` but I 'm sure he do n't like Julia Bell so very much .
I 've hear him say he study the multiplication table by her freckle . ''
`` Oh , do n't speak about freckle to me , '' implore Anne .
`` It be n't delicate when I 've get so many .
But I do think that write take-notices up on the wall about the boy and girl be the silly ever .
I should just like to see anybody dare to write my name up with a boy 's .
Not , of course , '' she hasten to add , `` that anybody would . ''
Anne sigh .
She do n't want her name write up .
But it be a little humiliating to know that there be no danger of it .
`` Nonsense , '' say Diana , whose black eye and glossy tress have play such havoc with the heart of Avonlea schoolboys that her name figure on the porch wall in half a dozen take-notices .
`` It 's only mean a a joke .
And do n't you be too sure your name wo n't ever be write up .
Charlie Sloane be DEAD GONE on you .
He tell his mother -- his MOTHER , mind you -- that you be the smart girl in school .
That 's good than be good look . ''
`` No , it be n't , '' say Anne , feminine to the core .
`` I 'd rather be pretty than clever .
And I hate Charlie Sloane , I ca n't bear a boy with goggle eye .
If anyone write my name up with his I 'd never GET over it , Diana Barry .
But it IS nice to keep head of your class . ''
`` You 'll have Gilbert in your class after this , '' say Diana , `` and he 's use to be head of his class , I can tell you .
He 's only in the fourth book although he 's nearly fourteen .
Four year ago his father be sick and have to go out to Alberta for his health and Gilbert go with him .
They be there three year and Gil do n't go to school hardly any until they come back .
You wo n't find it so easy to keep head after this , Anne . ''
`` I 'm glad , '' say Anne quickly .
`` I could n't really feel proud of keep head of little boy and girl of just nine or ten .
I get up yesterday spell ` ebullition . '
Josie Pye be head and , mind you , she peep in her book .
Mr. Phillips do n't see her -- he be look at Prissy Andrews -- but I do .
I just sweep her a look of freeze scorn and she get as red a a beet and spell it wrong after all . ''
`` Those Pye girl be cheat all round , '' say Diana indignantly , a they climb the fence of the main road .
`` Gertie Pye actually go and put her milk bottle in my place in the brook yesterday .
Did you ever ?
I do n't speak to her now . ''
When Mr. Phillips be in the back of the room hearing Prissy Andrews 's Latin , Diana whisper to Anne , `` That 's Gilbert Blythe sit right across the aisle from you , Anne .
Just look at him and see if you do n't think he 's handsome . ''
Anne look accordingly .
She have a good chance to do so , for the say Gilbert Blythe be absorb in stealthily pin the long yellow braid of Ruby Gillis , who sit in front of him , to the back of her seat .
He be a tall boy , with curly brown hair , roguish hazel eye , and a mouth twist into a tease smile .
Presently Ruby Gillis start up to take a sum to the master ; she fell back into her seat with a little shriek , believe that her hair be pull out by the root .
Everybody look at her and Mr. Phillips glare so sternly that Ruby begin to cry .
Gilbert have whisk the pin out of sight and be study his history with the sober face in the world ; but when the commotion subside he look at Anne and wink with inexpressible drollery .
`` I think your Gilbert Blythe IS handsome , '' confide Anne to Diana , `` but I think he 's very bold .
It be n't good manner to wink at a strange girl . ''
But it be not until the afternoon that thing really begin to happen .
Mr. Phillips be back in the corner explain a problem in algebra to Prissy Andrews and the rest of the scholar be do pretty much a they please eat green apple , whisper , draw picture on their slate , and drive cricket harness to string , up and down aisle .
Gilbert Blythe be try to make Anne Shirley look at him and fail utterly , because Anne be at that moment totally oblivious not only to the very existence of Gilbert Blythe , but of every other scholar in Avonlea school itself .
With her chin propped on her hand and her eye fix on the blue glimpse of the Lake of Shining Waters that the west window afford , she be far away in a gorgeous dreamland hearing and see nothing save her own wonderful vision .
Gilbert Blythe be n't use to put himself out to make a girl look at him and meet with failure .
She SHOULD look at him , that red-haired Shirley girl with the little pointed chin and the big eye that be n't like the eye of any other girl in Avonlea school .
Gilbert reach across the aisle , pick up the end of Anne 's long red braid , hold it out at arm 's length and say in a piercing whisper : `` Carrots !
Carrots ! ''
Then Anne look at him with a vengeance !
She do more than look .
She spring to her foot , her bright fancy fall into cureless ruin .
She flash one indignant glance at Gilbert from eye whose angry sparkle be swiftly quench in equally angry tear .
`` You mean , hateful boy ! ''
she exclaim passionately .
`` How dare you ! ''
And then -- thwack !
Anne have bring her slate down on Gilbert 's head and crack it -- slate not head -- clear across .
Avonlea school always enjoy a scene .
This be an especially enjoyable one .
Everybody say `` Oh '' in horrified delight .
Diana gasp .
Ruby Gillis , who be incline to be hysterical , begin to cry .
Tommy Sloane let his team of cricket escape him altogether while he star open-mouthed at the tableau .
Mr. Phillips stalk down the aisle and lay his hand heavily on Anne 's shoulder .
`` Anne Shirley , what do this mean ? ''
he say angrily .
Anne return no answer .
It be ask too much of flesh and blood to expect her to tell before the whole school that she have be call `` carrot . ''
Gilbert it be who speak up stoutly .
`` It be my fault Mr. Phillips .
I tease her . ''
Mr. Phillips pay no heed to Gilbert .
`` I be sorry to see a pupil of mine displaying such a temper and such a vindictive spirit , '' he say in a solemn tone , a if the mere fact of be a pupil of his ought to root out all evil passion from the heart of small imperfect mortal .
`` Anne , go and stand on the platform in front of the blackboard for the rest of the afternoon . ''
Anne would have infinitely prefer a whipping to this punishment under which her sensitive spirit quiver a from a whiplash .
With a white , set face she obey .
Mr. Phillips take a chalk crayon and write on the blackboard above her head .
`` Ann Shirley have a very bad temper .
Ann Shirley must learn to control her temper , '' and then read it out loud so that even the primer class , who could n't read write , should understand it .
Anne stood there the rest of the afternoon with that legend above her .
She do not cry or hang her head .
Anger be still too hot in her heart for that and it sustain her amid all her agony of humiliation .
With resentful eye and passion-red cheek she confront alike Diana 's sympathetic gaze and Charlie Sloane 's indignant nod and Josie Pye 's malicious smile .
As for Gilbert Blythe , she would not even look at him .
She would NEVER look at him again !
She would never speak to him ! !
When school be dismiss Anne march out with her red head hold high .
Gilbert Blythe try to intercept her at the porch door .
`` I 'm awfully sorry I make fun of your hair , Anne , '' he whisper contritely .
`` Honest I be .
Do n't be mad for keep , now . ''
Anne swept by disdainfully , without look or sign of hearing .
`` Oh how could you , Anne ? ''
breathe Diana a they go down the road half reproachfully , half admiringly .
Diana felt that SHE could never have resist Gilbert 's plea .
`` I shall never forgive Gilbert Blythe , '' say Anne firmly .
`` And Mr. Phillips spell my name without an e , too .
The iron have enter into my soul , Diana . ''
Diana have n't the least idea what Anne meant but she understand it be something terrible .
`` You must n't mind Gilbert make fun of your hair , '' she say soothingly .
`` Why , he make fun of all the girl .
He laugh at mine because it 's so black .
He 's call me a crow a dozen time ; and I never hear him apologize for anything before , either . ''
`` There 's a great deal of difference between be call a crow and be call carrot , '' say Anne with dignity .
`` Gilbert Blythe have hurt my feeling EXCRUCIATINGLY , Diana . ''
It be possible the matter might have blow over without more excruciation if nothing else have happen .
But when thing begin to happen they be apt to keep on .
Avonlea scholar often spend noon hour pick gum in Mr. Bell 's spruce grove over the hill and across his big pasture field .
From there they could keep an eye on Eben Wright 's house , where the master board .
When they saw Mr. Phillips emerge therefrom they run for the schoolhouse ; but the distance be about three time longer than Mr. Wright 's lane they be very apt to arrive there , breathless and gasping , some three minute too late .
On the following day Mr. Phillips be seize with one of his spasmodic fit of reform and announce before go home to dinner , that he should expect to find all the scholar in their seat when he return .
Anyone who come in late would be punish .
All the boy and some of the girl go to Mr. Bell 's spruce grove a usual , fully intend to stay only long enough to `` pick a chew . ''
But spruce grove be seductive and yellow nut of gum beguiling ; they pick and loiter and stray ; and a usual the first thing that recall them to a sense of the flight of time be Jimmy Glover shout from the top of a patriarchal old spruce `` Master 's come . ''
The girl who be on the ground , start first and manage to reach the schoolhouse in time but without a second to spare .
The boy , who have to wriggle hastily down from the tree , be later ; and Anne , who have not be pick gum at all but be wander happily in the far end of the grove , waist deep among the bracken , sing softly to herself , with a wreath of rice lily on her hair a if she be some wild divinity of the shadowy place , be late of all .
Anne could run like a deer , however ; run she do with the impish result that she overtake the boy at the door and be sweep into the schoolhouse among them just a Mr. Phillips be in the act of hang up his hat .
Mr. Phillips 's brief reform energy be over ; he do n't want the bother of punish a dozen pupil ; but it be necessary to do something to save his word , so he look about for a scapegoat and find it in Anne , who have drop into her seat , gasp for breath , with a forgotten lily wreath hang askew over one ear and give her a particularly rakish and disheveled appearance .
`` Anne Shirley , since you seem to be so fond of the boy ' company we shall indulge your taste for it this afternoon , '' he say sarcastically .
`` Take those flower out of your hair and sit with Gilbert Blythe . ''
The other boy snicker .
Diana , turn pale with pity , pluck the wreath from Anne 's hair and squeeze her hand .
Anne star at the master a if turn to stone .
`` Did you hear what I say , Anne ? ''
queried Mr. Phillips sternly .
`` Yes , sir , '' say Anne slowly `` but I do n't suppose you really mean it . ''
`` I assure you I do '' -- still with the sarcastic inflection which all the child , and Anne especially , hat .
It flick on the raw .
`` Obey me at once . ''
For a moment Anne look a if she mean to disobey .
Then , realize that there be no help for it , she rise haughtily , step across the aisle , sit down beside Gilbert Blythe , and bury her face in her arm on the desk .
Ruby Gillis , who get a glimpse of it a it go down , tell the others go home from school that she 'd `` acksually never see anything like it -- it be so white , with awful little red spot in it . ''
To Anne , this be a the end of all thing .
It be bad enough to be single out for punishment from among a dozen equally guilty one ; it be bad still to be send to sit with a boy , but that that boy should be Gilbert Blythe be heap insult on injury to a degree utterly unbearable .
Anne felt that she could not bear it and it would be of no use to try .
Her whole be seethe with shame and anger and humiliation .
At first the other scholar look and whisper and giggle and nudge .
But a Anne never lift her head and a Gilbert work fraction a if his whole soul be absorb in them and them only , they soon return to their own task and Anne be forget .
When Mr. Phillips call the history class out Anne should have go , but Anne do not move , and Mr. Phillips , who have be write some verse `` To Priscilla '' before he call the class , be think about an obstinate rhyme still and never miss her .
Once , when nobody be look , Gilbert take from his desk a little pink candy heart with a gold motto on it , `` You be sweet , '' and slip it under the curve of Anne 's arm .
Whereupon Anne arise , take the pink heart gingerly between the tip of her finger , drop it on the floor , ground it to powder beneath her heel , and resume her position without deign to bestow a glance on Gilbert .
When school go out Anne march to her desk , ostentatiously take out everything therein , book and write tablet , pen and ink , testament and arithmetic , and pile them neatly on her cracked slate .
`` What be you take all those thing home for , Anne ? ''
Diana want to know , as soon a they be out on the road .
She have not dare to ask the question before .
`` I be not come back to school any more , '' say Anne .
Diana gasp and star at Anne to see if she mean it .
`` Will Marilla let you stay home ? ''
she ask .
`` She 'll have to , '' say Anne .
`` I 'll NEVER go to school to that man again . ''
`` Oh , Anne ! ''
Diana look a if she be ready to cry .
`` I do think you 're mean .
What shall I do ?
Mr. Phillips will make me sit with that horrid Gertie Pye -- I know he will because she be sit alone .
Do come back , Anne . ''
`` I 'd do almost anything in the world for you , Diana , '' say Anne sadly .
`` I 'd let myself be tear limb from limb if it would do you any good .
But I ca n't do this , so please do n't ask it .
You harrow up my very soul . ''
`` Just think of all the fun you will miss , '' mourn Diana .
`` We be go to build the lovely new house down by the brook ; and we 'll be play ball next week and you 've never play ball , Anne .
It 's tremendously exciting .
And we 're go to learn a new song -- Jane Andrews be practice it up now ; and Alice Andrews be go to bring a new Pansy book next week and we 're all go to read it out loud , chapter about , down by the brook .
And you know you be so fond of read out loud , Anne . ''
Nothing move Anne in the least .
Her mind be make up .
She would not go to school to Mr. Phillips again ; she tell Marilla so when she get home .
`` Nonsense , '' say Marilla .
`` It be n't nonsense at all , '' say Anne , gaze at Marilla with solemn , reproachful eye .
`` Do n't you understand , Marilla ?
I 've be insult . ''
`` Insulted fiddlestick !
You 'll go to school tomorrow a usual . ''
`` Oh , no . ''
Anne shake her head gently .
`` I 'm not go back , Marilla .
I 'll learn my lesson at home and I 'll be as good a I can be and hold my tongue all the time if it 's possible at all .
But I will not go back to school , I assure you . ''
Marilla saw something remarkably like unyielding stubbornness look out of Anne 's small face .
She understand that she would have trouble in overcome it ; but she re-solved wisely to say nothing more just then .
`` I 'll run down and see Rachel about it this evening , '' she think .
`` There 's no use reason with Anne now .
She 's too work up and I 've an idea she can be awful stubborn if she take the notion .
Far a I can make out from her story , Mr. Phillips have be carry matter with a rather high hand .
But it would never do to say so to her .
I 'll just talk it over with Rachel .
She 's sent ten child to school and she ought to know something about it .
She 'll have hear the whole story , too , by this time . ''
Marilla find Mrs. Lynde knit quilt a industriously and cheerfully a usual .
`` I suppose you know what I 've come about , '' she say , a little shamefacedly .
Mrs. Rachel nod .
`` About Anne 's fuss in school , I reckon , '' she say .
`` Tillie Boulter be in on her way home from school and tell me about it . ''
`` I do n't know what to do with her , '' say Marilla .
`` She declare she wo n't go back to school .
I never saw a child so work up .
I 've be expect trouble ever since she start to school .
I know thing be go too smooth to last .
She 's so high strung .
What would you advise , Rachel ? ''
`` Well , since you 've ask my advice , Marilla , '' say Mrs. Lynde amiably -- Mrs. Lynde dearly love to be ask for advice -- `` I 'd just humor her a little at first , that 's what I 'd do .
It 's my belief that Mr. Phillips be in the wrong .
Of course , it do n't do to say so to the child , you know .
And of course he do right to punish her yesterday for give way to temper .
But today it be different .
The others who be late should have be punish as well a Anne , that 's what .
And I do n't believe in make the girl sit with the boy for punishment .
It be n't modest .
Tillie Boulter be real indignant .
She take Anne 's part right through and say all the scholar do too .
Anne seem real popular among them , somehow .
I never think she 'd take with them so well . ''
`` Then you really think I 'd well let her stay home , '' say Marilla in amazement .
`` Yes .
That be I would n't say school to her again until she say it herself .
Depend upon it , Marilla , she 'll cool off in a week or so and be ready enough to go back of her own accord , that 's what , while , if you be to make her go back right off , dear know what freak or tantrum she 'd take next and make more trouble than ever .
The less fuss make the good , in my opinion .
She wo n't miss much by not go to school , as far a THAT go .
Mr. Phillips be n't any good at all a a teacher .
The order he keep be scandalous , that 's what , and he neglect the young fry and put all his time on those big scholar he 's get ready for Queen 's .
He 'd never have get the school for another year if his uncle have n't be a trustee -- THE trustee , for he just lead the other two around by the nose , that 's what .
I declare , I do n't know what education in this Island be come to . ''
Mrs. Rachel shake her head , as much a to say if she be only at the head of the educational system of the Province thing would be much good manage .
Marilla take Mrs. Rachel 's advice and not another word be say to Anne about go back to school .
She learn her lesson at home , do her chore , and play with Diana in the chilly purple autumn twilight ; but when she meet Gilbert Blythe on the road or encounter him in Sunday school she pass him by with an icy contempt that be no whit thaw by his evident desire to appease her .
Even Diana 's effort a a peacemaker be of no avail .
Anne have evidently make up her mind to hate Gilbert Blythe to the end of life .
As much a she hat Gilbert , however , do she love Diana , with all the love of her passionate little heart , equally intense in it like and dislike .
One evening Marilla , come in from the orchard with a basket of apple , find Anne sit along by the east window in the twilight , cry bitterly .
`` Whatever 's the matter now , Anne ? ''
she ask .
`` It 's about Diana , '' sob Anne luxuriously .
`` I love Diana so , Marilla .
I can not ever live without her .
But I know very well when we grow up that Diana will get married and go away and leave me .
And oh , what shall I do ?
I hate her husband -- I just hate him furiously .
I 've be imagine it all out -- the wedding and everything -- Diana dress in snowy garment , with a veil , and look a beautiful and regal a a queen ; and me the bridesmaid , with a lovely dress too , and puffed sleeve , but with a break heart hid beneath my smile face .
And then bid Diana goodbye-e-e -- '' Here Anne break down entirely and weep with increase bitterness .
Marilla turn quickly away to hide her twitch face ; but it be no use ; she collapse on the near chair and burst into such a hearty and unusual peal of laughter that Matthew , cross the yard outside , halt in amazement .
When have he hear Marilla laugh like that before ?
`` Well , Anne Shirley , '' say Marilla as soon a she could speak , `` if you must borrow trouble , for pity 's sake borrow it handy home .
I should think you have an imagination , sure enough . ''
CHAPTER XVI .
Diana Is Invited to Tea with Tragic Results OCTOBER be a beautiful month at Green Gables , when the birch in the hollow turn as golden a sunshine and the maple behind the orchard be royal crimson and the wild cherry tree along the lane put on the lovely shade of dark red and bronzy green , while the field sun themselves in aftermath .
Anne revel in the world of color about her .
`` Oh , Marilla , '' she exclaim one Saturday morning , come dance in with her arm full of gorgeous bough , `` I 'm so glad I live in a world where there be Octobers .
It would be terrible if we just skip from September to November , would n't it ?
Look at these maple branch .
Do n't they give you a thrill -- several thrill ?
I 'm go to decorate my room with them . ''
`` Messy thing , '' say Marilla , whose aesthetic sense be not noticeably develop .
`` You clutter up your room entirely too much with out-of-doors stuff , Anne .
Bedrooms be make to sleep in . ''
`` Oh , and dream in too , Marilla .
And you know one can dream so much well in a room where there be pretty thing .
I 'm go to put these bough in the old blue jug and set them on my table . ''
`` Mind you do n't drop leaf all over the stair then .
I 'm go on a meeting of the Aid Society at Carmody this afternoon , Anne , and I wo n't likely be home before dark .
You 'll have to get Matthew and Jerry their supper , so mind you do n't forget to put the tea to draw until you sit down at the table a you do last time . ''
`` It be dreadful of me to forget , '' say Anne apologetically , `` but that be the afternoon I be try to think of a name for Violet Vale and it crowd other thing out .
Matthew be so good .
He never scold a bit .
He put the tea down himself and say we could wait awhile as well a not .
And I tell him a lovely fairy story while we be wait , so he do n't find the time long at all .
It be a beautiful fairy story , Marilla .
I forget the end of it , so I make up an end for it myself and Matthew say he could n't tell where the join come in . ''
`` Matthew would think it all right , Anne , if you take a notion to get up and have dinner in the middle of the night .
But you keep your wit about you this time .
And -- I do n't really know if I 'm do right -- it may make you more addlepated than ever -- but you can ask Diana to come over and spend the afternoon with you and have tea here . ''
`` Oh , Marilla ! ''
Anne clasp her hand .
`` How perfectly lovely !
You ARE able to imagine thing after all or else you 'd never have understood how I 've long for that very thing .
It will seem so nice and grown-uppish .
No fear of my forgetting to put the tea to draw when I have company .
Oh , Marilla , can I use the rosebud spray tea set ? ''
`` No , indeed !
The rosebud tea set !
Well , what next ?
You know I never use that except for the minister or the Aids .
You 'll put down the old brown tea set .
But you can open the little yellow crock of cherry preserve .
It 's time it be be use anyhow -- I believe it 's begin to work .
And you can cut some fruit cake and have some of the cooky and snap . ''
`` I can just imagine myself sit down at the head of the table and pour out the tea , '' say Anne , shut her eye ecstatically .
`` And ask Diana if she take sugar !
I know she do n't but of course I 'll ask her just a if I do n't know .
And then press her to take another piece of fruit cake and another help of preserve .
Oh , Marilla , it 's a wonderful sensation just to think of it .
Can I take her into the spare room to lay off her hat when she come ?
And then into the parlor to sit ? ''
`` No .
The sit room will do for you and your company .
But there 's a bottle half full of raspberry cordial that be leave over from the church social the other night .
It 's on the second shelf of the sitting-room closet and you and Diana can have it if you like , and a cooky to eat with it along in the afternoon , for I daresay Matthew 'll be late come in to tea since he 's haul potato to the vessel . ''
Anne fly down to the hollow , past the Dryad 's Bubble and up the spruce path to Orchard Slope , to ask Diana to tea .
As a result just after Marilla have drive off to Carmody , Diana come over , dress in HER second-best dress and look exactly a it be proper to look when ask out to tea .
At other time she be wont to run into the kitchen without knock ; but now she knock primly at the front door .
And when Anne , dress in her second best , a primly open it , both little girl shake hand as gravely a if they have never meet before .
This unnatural solemnity last until after Diana have be take to the east gable to lay off her hat and then have sit for ten minute in the sitting room , toe in position .
`` How be your mother ? ''
inquired Anne politely , just a if she have not see Mrs. Barry pick apple that morning in excellent health and spirit .
`` She be very well , thank you .
I suppose Mr. Cuthbert be haul potato to the LILY SANDS this afternoon , be he ? ''
say Diana , who have ride down to Mr. Harmon Andrews 's that morning in Matthew 's cart .
`` Yes .
Our potato crop be very good this year .
I hope your father 's crop be good too . ''
`` It be fairly good , thank you .
Have you pick many of your apple yet ? ''
`` Oh , ever so many , '' say Anne forget to be dignify and jump up quickly .
`` Let 's go out to the orchard and get some of the Red Sweetings , Diana .
Marilla say we can have all that be leave on the tree .
Marilla be a very generous woman .
She say we could have fruit cake and cherry preserve for tea .
But it be n't good manner to tell your company what you be go to give them to eat , so I wo n't tell you what she say we could have to drink .
Only it begin with an R and a C and it 's bright red color .
I love bright red drink , do n't you ?
They taste twice as good a any other color . ''
The orchard , with it great sweeping bough that bend to the ground with fruit , prove so delightful that the little girls spend most of the afternoon in it , sit in a grassy corner where the frost have spar the green and the mellow autumn sunshine linger warmly , eat apple and talk as hard a they could .
Diana have much to tell Anne of what go on in school .
She have to sit with Gertie Pye and she hat it ; Gertie squeak her pencil all the time and it just make her -- Diana 's -- blood run cold ; Ruby Gillis have charm all her wart away , true 's you live , with a magic pebble that old Mary Joe from the Creek give her .
You have to rub the wart with the pebble and then throw it away over your left shoulder at the time of the new moon and the wart would all go .
Charlie Sloane 's name be write up with Em White 's on the porch wall and Em White be AWFUL MAD about it ; Sam Boulter have `` sass '' Mr. Phillips in class and Mr. Phillips whip him and Sam 's father come down to the school and dare Mr. Phillips to lay a hand on one of his child again ; and Mattie Andrews have a new red hood and a blue crossover with tassel on it and the air she put on about it be perfectly sicken ; and Lizzie Wright do n't speak to Mamie Wilson because Mamie Wilson 's grown-up sister have cut out Lizzie Wright 's grown-up sister with her beau ; and everybody miss Anne so and wish she 's come to school again ; and Gilbert Blythe -- But Anne do n't want to hear about Gilbert Blythe .
She jump up hurriedly and say suppose they go in and have some raspberry cordial .
Anne look on the second shelf of the room pantry but there be no bottle of raspberry cordial there .
Search reveal it away back on the top shelf .
Anne put it on a tray and set it on the table with a tumbler .
`` Now , please help yourself , Diana , '' she say politely .
`` I do n't believe I 'll have any just now .
I do n't feel a if I want any after all those apple . ''
Diana pour herself out a tumblerful , look at it bright-red hue admiringly , and then sip it daintily .
`` That 's awfully nice raspberry cordial , Anne , '' she say .
`` I do n't know raspberry cordial be so nice . ''
`` I 'm real glad you like it .
Take as much a you want .
I 'm go to run out and stir the fire up .
There be so many responsibility on a person 's mind when they 're keep house , be n't there ? ''
When Anne come back from the kitchen Diana be drink her second glassful of cordial ; and , be entreat thereto by Anne , she offer no particular objection to the drinking of a third .
The tumblerfuls be generous one and the raspberry cordial be certainly very nice .
`` The nice I ever drink , '' say Diana .
`` It 's ever so much nicer than Mrs. Lynde 's , although she brag of hers so much .
It do n't taste a bit like hers . ''
`` I should think Marilla 's raspberry cordial would prob ` ly be much nice than Mrs. Lynde 's , '' say Anne loyally .
`` Marilla be a famous cook .
She be try to teach me to cook but I assure you , Diana , it be uphill work .
There 's so little scope for imagination in cookery .
You just have to go by rule .
The last time I make a cake I forget to put the flour in .
I be think the lovely story about you and me , Diana .
I think you be desperately ill with smallpox and everybody desert you , but I go boldly to your bedside and nurse you back to life ; and then I take the smallpox and die and I be bury under those poplar tree in the graveyard and you plant a rosebush by my grave and water it with your tear ; and you never , never forget the friend of your youth who sacrifice her life for you .
Oh , it be such a pathetic tale , Diana .
The tear just rain down over my cheek while I mix the cake .
But I forget the flour and the cake be a dismal failure .
Flour be so essential to cake , you know .
Marilla be very cross and I do n't wonder .
I 'm a great trial to her .
She be terribly mortify about the pudding sauce last week .
We have a plum pudding for dinner on Tuesday and there be half the pudding and a pitcherful of sauce leave over .
Marilla say there be enough for another dinner and tell me to set it on the pantry shelf and cover it .
I mean to cover it just as much a could be , Diana , but when I carry it in I be imagine I be a nun -- of course I 'm a Protestant but I imagine I be a Catholic -- take the veil to bury a broken heart in cloistered seclusion ; and I forget all about cover the pudding sauce .
I think of it next morning and ran to the pantry .
Diana , fancy if you can my extreme horror at find a mouse drown in that pudding sauce !
I lift the mouse out with a spoon and throw it out in the yard and then I wash the spoon in three water .
Marilla be out milking and I fully intend to ask her when she come in if I 'd give the sauce to the pig ; but when she do come in I be imagine that I be a frost fairy go through the wood turn the tree red and yellow , whichever they want to be , so I never think about the pudding sauce again and Marilla send me out to pick apple .
Well , Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ross from Spencervale come here that morning .
You know they be very stylish people , especially Mrs. Chester Ross .
When Marilla call me in dinner be all ready and everybody be at the table .
I try to be a polite and dignify a I could be , for I want Mrs. Chester Ross to think I be a ladylike little girl even if I be n't pretty .
Everything go right until I saw Marilla come with the plum pudding in one hand and the pitcher of pudding sauce WARMED UP , in the other .
Diana , that be a terrible moment .
I remember everything and I just stand up in my place and shriek out ` Marilla , you must n't use that pudding sauce .
There be a mouse drown in it .
I forget to tell you before . '
Oh , Diana , I shall never forget that awful moment if I live to be a hundred .
Mrs. Chester Ross just LOOKED at me and I think I would sink through the floor with mortification .
She be such a perfect housekeeper and fancy what she must have think of u .
Marilla turn red a fire but she never say a word -- then .
She just carry that sauce and pudding out and brought in some strawberry preserve .
She even offer me some , but I could n't swallow a mouthful .
It be like heap coal of fire on my head .
After Mrs. Chester Ross go away , Marilla give me a dreadful scolding .
Why , Diana , what be the matter ? ''
Diana have stand up very unsteadily ; then she sit down again , put her hand to her head .
`` I 'm -- I 'm awful sick , '' she say , a little thickly .
`` I -- I -- must go right home . ''
`` Oh , you must n't dream of go home without your tea , '' cry Anne in distress .
`` I 'll get it right off -- I 'll go and put the tea down this very minute . ''
`` I must go home , '' repeat Diana , stupidly but determinedly .
`` Let me get you a lunch anyhow , '' implore Anne .
`` Let me give you a bit of fruit cake and some of the cherry preserve .
Lie down on the sofa for a little while and you 'll be good .
Where do you feel bad ? ''
`` I must go home , '' say Diana , and that be all she would say .
In vain Anne plead .
`` I never heard of company go home without tea , '' she mourn .
`` Oh , Diana , do you suppose that it 's possible you 're really take the smallpox ?
If you be I 'll go and nurse you , you can depend on that .
I 'll never forsake you .
But I do wish you 'd stay till after tea .
Where do you feel bad ? ''
`` I 'm awful dizzy , '' say Diana .
And indeed , she walk very dizzily .
Anne , with tear of disappointment in her eye , get Diana 's hat and go with her as far a the Barry yard fence .
Then she weep all the way back to Green Gables , where she sorrowfully put the remainder of the raspberry cordial back into the pantry and get tea ready for Matthew and Jerry , with all the zest go out of the performance .
The next day be Sunday and a the rain pour down in torrent from dawn till dusk Anne do not stir abroad from Green Gables .
Monday afternoon Marilla send her down to Mrs. Lynde 's on an errand .
In a very short space of time Anne come fly back up the lane with tear roll down her cheek .
Into the kitchen she dash and fling herself face downward on the sofa in an agony .
`` Whatever have go wrong now , Anne ? ''
query Marilla in doubt and dismay .
`` I do hope you have n't go and be saucy to Mrs. Lynde again . ''
No answer from Anne save more tear and stormy sob !
`` Anne Shirley , when I ask you a question I want to be answer .
Sit right up this very minute and tell me what you be cry about . ''
Anne sit up , tragedy personify .
`` Mrs. Lynde be up to see Mrs. Barry today and Mrs. Barry be in an awful state , '' she wail .
`` She say that I set Diana DRUNK Saturday and send her home in a disgraceful condition .
And she say I must be a thoroughly bad , wicked little girl and she 's never , never go to let Diana play with me again .
Oh , Marilla , I 'm just overcome with woe . ''
Marilla star in blank amazement .
`` Set Diana drunk ! ''
she say when she find her voice .
`` Anne be you or Mrs. Barry crazy ?
What on earth do you give her ? ''
`` Not a thing but raspberry cordial , '' sob Anne .
`` I never think raspberry cordial would set people drink , Marilla -- not even if they drink three big tumblerfuls a Diana do .
Oh , it sound so -- so -- like Mrs. Thomas 's husband !
But I do n't mean to set her drunk . ''
`` Drunk fiddlestick ! ''
say Marilla , march to the sit room pantry .
There on the shelf be a bottle which she at once recognize a one contain some of her three-year-old homemade currant wine for which she be celebrate in Avonlea , although certain of the stricter sort , Mrs. Barry among them , disapprove strongly of it .
And at the same time Marilla recollect that she have put the bottle of raspberry cordial down in the cellar instead of in the pantry a she have tell Anne .
She go back to the kitchen with the wine bottle in her hand .
Her face be twitch in spite of herself .
`` Anne , you certainly have a genius for get into trouble .
You go and give Diana currant wine instead of raspberry cordial .
Did n't you know the difference yourself ? ''
`` I never taste it , '' say Anne .
`` I think it be the cordial .
I mean to be so -- so -- hospitable .
Diana get awfully sick and have to go home .
Mrs. Barry tell Mrs. Lynde she be simply dead drunk .
She just laugh silly-like when her mother ask her what be the matter and go to sleep and sleep for hour .
Her mother smell her breath and know she be drunk .
She have a fearful headache all day yesterday .
Mrs. Barry be so indignant .
She will never believe but what I do it on purpose . ''
`` I should think she would well punish Diana for be so greedy a to drink three glassful of anything , '' say Marilla shortly .
`` Why , three of those big glass would have make her sick even if it have only be cordial .
Well , this story will be a nice handle for those folk who be so down on me for make currant wine , although I have n't make any for three year ever since I find out that the minister do n't approve .
I just keep that bottle for sickness .
There , there , child , do n't cry .
I ca n't see a you be to blame although I 'm sorry it happen so . ''
`` I must cry , '' say Anne .
`` My heart be break .
The star in their course fight against me , Marilla .
Diana and I be part forever .
Oh , Marilla , I little dreamed of this when first we swear our vow of friendship . ''
`` Do n't be foolish , Anne .
Mrs. Barry will think good of it when she find you 're not to blame .
I suppose she think you 've do it for a silly joke or something of that sort .
You 'd best go up this evening and tell her how it be . ''
`` My courage fail me at the thought of face Diana 's injured mother , '' sigh Anne .
`` I wish you 'd go , Marilla .
You 're so much more dignified than I be .
Likely she 'd listen to you quick than to me . ''
`` Well , I will , '' say Marilla , reflect that it would probably be the wise course .
`` Do n't cry any more , Anne .
It will be all right . ''
Marilla have change her mind about it be all right by the time she get back from Orchard Slope .
Anne be watch for her coming and fly to the porch door to meet her .
`` Oh , Marilla , I know by your face that it 's be no use , '' she say sorrowfully .
`` Mrs. Barry wo n't forgive me ? ''
`` Mrs. Barry indeed ! ''
snap Marilla .
`` Of all the unreasonable woman I ever saw she 's the bad .
I tell her it be all a mistake and you be n't to blame , but she just simply do n't believe me .
And she rub it well in about my currant wine and how I 'd always say it could n't have the least effect on anybody .
I just tell her plainly that currant wine be n't mean to be drunk three tumblerfuls at a time and that if a child I have to do with be so greedy I 'd sober her up with a right good spanking . ''
Marilla whisk into the kitchen , grievously disturb , leave a very much distract little soul in the porch behind her .
Presently Anne step out bareheaded into the chill autumn dusk ; very determinedly and steadily she take her way down through the sere clover field over the log bridge and up through the spruce grove , light by a pale little moon hang low over the western wood .
Mrs. Barry , come to the door in answer to a timid knock , find a white-lipped eager-eyed suppliant on the doorstep .
Her face harden .
Mrs. Barry be a woman of strong prejudice and dislike , and her anger be of the cold , sullen sort which be always hard to overcome .
To do her justice , she really believe Anne have make Diana drink out of sheer malice prepense , and she be honestly anxious to preserve her little daughter from the contamination of further intimacy with such a child .
`` What do you want ? ''
she say stiffly .
Anne clasp her hand .
`` Oh , Mrs. Barry , please forgive me .
I do not mean to -- to -- intoxicate Diana .
How could I ?
Just imagine if you be a poor little orphan girl that kind people have adopt and you have just one bosom friend in all the world .
Do you think you would intoxicate her on purpose ?
I think it be only raspberry cordial .
I be firmly convinced it be raspberry cordial .
Oh , please do n't say that you wo n't let Diana play with me any more .
If you do you will cover my life with a dark cloud of woe . ''
This speech which would have soften good Mrs. Lynde 's heart in a twinkling , have no effect on Mrs. Barry except to irritate her still more .
She be suspicious of Anne 's big word and dramatic gesture and imagine that the child be make fun of her .
So she say , coldly and cruelly : `` I do n't think you be a fit little girl for Diana to associate with .
You 'd better go home and behave yourself . ''
Anne 's lip quiver .
`` Wo n't you let me see Diana just once to say farewell ? ''
she implore .
`` Diana have go over to Carmody with her father , '' say Mrs. Barry , go in and shut the door .
Anne go back to Green Gables calm with despair .
`` My last hope be go , '' she tell Marilla .
`` I go up and saw Mrs. Barry myself and she treat me very insultingly .
Marilla , I do NOT think she be a well-bred woman .
There be nothing more to do except to pray and I have n't much hope that that 'll do much good because , Marilla , I do not believe that God Himself can do very much with such an obstinate person a Mrs. Barry . ''
`` Anne , you should n't say such thing '' rebuke Marilla , strive to overcome that unholy tendency to laughter which she be dismay to find grow upon her .
And indeed , when she tell the whole story to Matthew that night , she do laugh heartily over Anne 's tribulation .
But when she slip into the east gable before go to bed and find that Anne have cry herself to sleep an unaccustomed softness crept into her face .
`` Poor little soul , '' she murmur , lift a loose curl of hair from the child 's tear-stained face .
Then she bend down and kiss the flushed cheek on the pillow .
CHAPTER XVII .
A New Interest in Life THE next afternoon Anne , bend over her patchwork at the kitchen window , happen to glance out and behold Diana down by the Dryad 's Bubble beckoning mysteriously .
In a trice Anne be out of the house and fly down to the hollow , astonishment and hope struggle in her expressive eye .
But the hope fade when she saw Diana 's dejected countenance .
`` Your mother have n't relent ? ''
she gasp .
Diana shake her head mournfully .
`` No ; and oh , Anne , she say I 'm never to play with you again .
I 've cry and cry and I tell her it be n't your fault , but it be n't any use .
I have ever such a time coax her to let me come down and say good-bye to you .
She say I be only to stay ten minute and she 's time me by the clock . ''
`` Ten minute be n't very long to say an eternal farewell in , '' say Anne tearfully .
`` Oh , Diana , will you promise faithfully never to forget me , the friend of your youth , no matter what dearer friend may caress thee ? ''
`` Indeed I will , '' sob Diana , `` and I 'll never have another bosom friend -- I do n't want to have .
I could n't love anybody a I love you . ''
`` Oh , Diana , '' cry Anne , clasp her hand , `` do you LOVE me ? ''
`` Why , of course I do .
Did n't you know that ? ''
`` No . ''
Anne draw a long breath .
`` I think you LIKED me of course but I never hop you LOVED me .
Why , Diana , I do n't think anybody could love me .
Nobody ever have love me since I can remember .
Oh , this be wonderful !
It 's a ray of light which will forever shine on the darkness of a path sever from thee , Diana .
Oh , just say it once again . ''
`` I love you devotedly , Anne , '' say Diana stanchly , `` and I always will , you may be sure of that . ''
`` And I will always love thee , Diana , '' say Anne , solemnly extend her hand .
`` In the year to come thy memory will shine like a star over my lonely life , a that last story we read together say .
Diana , wilt thou give me a lock of thy jet-black tress in part to treasure forevermore ? ''
`` Have you get anything to cut it with ? ''
query Diana , wipe away the tear which Anne 's affect accent have cause to flow afresh , and return to practicality .
`` Yes .
I 've get my patchwork scissors in my apron pocket fortunately , '' say Anne .
She solemnly clip one of Diana 's curl .
`` Fare thee well , my beloved friend .
Henceforth we must be a stranger though living side by side .
But my heart will ever be faithful to thee . ''
Anne stand and watch Diana out of sight , mournfully wave her hand to the latter whenever she turn to look back .
Then she return to the house , not a little consoled for the time be by this romantic parting .
`` It be all over , '' she inform Marilla .
`` I shall never have another friend .
I 'm really bad off than ever before , for I have n't Katie Maurice and Violetta now .
And even if I have it would n't be the same .
Somehow , little dream girl be not satisfy after a real friend .
Diana and I have such an affecting farewell down by the spring .
It will be sacred in my memory forever .
I use the most pathetic language I could think of and say ` thou ' and ` thee . '
` Thou ' and ` thee ' seem so much more romantic than ` you . '
Diana give me a lock of her hair and I 'm go to sew it up in a little bag and wear it around my neck all my life .
Please see that it be bury with me , for I do n't believe I 'll live very long .
Perhaps when she see me lie cold and dead before her Mrs. Barry may feel remorse for what she have do and will let Diana come to my funeral . ''
`` I do n't think there be much fear of your dying of grief as long a you can talk , Anne , '' say Marilla unsympathetically .
The follow Monday Anne surprise Marilla by come down from her room with her basket of book on her arm and hip and her lip prim up into a line of determination .
`` I 'm go back to school , '' she announce .
`` That be all there be leave in life for me , now that my friend have be ruthlessly tear from me .
In school I can look at her and muse over day depart . ''
`` You 'd better muse over your lesson and sum , '' say Marilla , conceal her delight at this development of the situation .
`` If you 're go back to school I hope we 'll hear no more of breaking slate over people 's head and such carryings on .
Behave yourself and do just what your teacher tell you . ''
`` I 'll try to be a model pupil , '' agree Anne dolefully .
`` There wo n't be much fun in it , I expect .
Mr. Phillips say Minnie Andrews be a model pupil and there be n't a spark of imagination or life in her .
She be just dull and poky and never seem to have a good time .
But I feel so depressed that perhaps it will come easy to me now .
I 'm go round by the road .
I could n't bear to go by the Birch Path all alone .
I should weep bitter tear if I do . ''
Anne be welcome back to school with open arm .
Her imagination have be sorely miss in game , her voice in the singing and her dramatic ability in the perusal aloud of book at dinner hour .
Ruby Gillis smuggle three blue plum over to her during testament reading ; Ella May MacPherson give her an enormous yellow pansy cut from the cover of a floral catalogue -- a specie of desk decoration much prize in Avonlea school .
Sophia Sloane offer to teach her a perfectly elegant new pattern of knit lace , so nice for trim apron .
Katie Boulter give her a perfume bottle to keep slate water in , and Julia Bell copy carefully on a piece of pale pink paper scallop on the edge the following effusion : When twilight drop her curtain down And pin it with a star Remember that you have a friend Though she may wander far .
`` It 's so nice to be appreciate , '' sigh Anne rapturously to Marilla that night .
The girl be not the only scholar who `` appreciate '' her .
When Anne go to her seat after dinner hour -- she have be tell by Mr. Phillips to sit with the model Minnie Andrews -- she find on her desk a big luscious `` strawberry apple . ''
Anne catch it up all ready to take a bite when she remember that the only place in Avonlea where strawberry apple grow be in the old Blythe orchard on the other side of the Lake of Shining Waters .
Anne drop the apple a if it be a red-hot coal and ostentatiously wipe her finger on her handkerchief .
The apple lay untouched on her desk until the next morning , when little Timothy Andrews , who sweep the school and kindle the fire , annex it a one of his perquisite .
Charlie Sloane 's slate pencil , gorgeously bedizen with striped red and yellow paper , cost two cent where ordinary pencil cost only one , which he send up to her after dinner hour , meet with a more favorable reception .
Anne be graciously pleased to accept it and reward the donor with a smile which exalt that infatuated youth straightway into the seventh heaven of delight and cause him to make such fearful error in his dictation that Mr. Phillips keep him in after school to rewrite it .
But a , The Caesar 's pageant shorn of Brutus ' bust Did but of Rome 's best son remind her more , so the marked absence of any tribute or recognition from Diana Barry who be sit with Gertie Pye embitter Anne 's little triumph .
`` Diana might just have smile at me once , I think , '' she mourn to Marilla that night .
But the next morning a note most fearfully and wonderfully twisted and fold , and a small parcel be pass across to Anne .
Dear Anne -LRB- run the former -RRB- Mother say I 'm not to play with you or talk to you even in school .
It be n't my fault and do n't be cross at me , because I love you as much a ever .
I miss you awfully to tell all my secret to and I do n't like Gertie Pye one bit .
I make you one of the new bookmarker out of red tissue paper .
They be awfully fashionable now and only three girl in school know how to make them .
When you look at it remember Your true friend Diana Barry .
Anne read the note , kiss the bookmark , and dispatch a prompt reply back to the other side of the school .
My own darling Diana : -- Of course I be not cross at you because you have to obey your mother .
Our spirit can commune .
I shall keep your lovely present forever .
Minnie Andrews be a very nice little girl -- although she have no imagination -- but after have be Diana 's busum friend I can not be Minnie 's .
Please excuse mistake because my spelling be n't very good yet , although much improoved .
Yours until death u do part Anne or Cordelia Shirley .
P.S . I shall sleep with your letter under my pillow tonight .
A . OR C.S . Marilla pessimistically expect more trouble since Anne have again begin to go to school .
But none develop .
Perhaps Anne catch something of the `` model '' spirit from Minnie Andrews ; at least she get on very well with Mr. Phillips thenceforth .
She fling herself into her study heart and soul , determine not to be outdone in any class by Gilbert Blythe .
The rivalry between them be soon apparent ; it be entirely good natured on Gilbert 's side ; but it be much to be fear that the same thing can not be say of Anne , who have certainly an unpraiseworthy tenacity for hold grudge .
She be a intense in her hatred a in her love .
She would not stoop to admit that she mean to rival Gilbert in schoolwork , because that would have be to acknowledge his existence which Anne persistently ignore ; but the rivalry be there and honor fluctuate between them .
Now Gilbert be head of the spelling class ; now Anne , with a toss of her long red braid , spell him down .
One morning Gilbert have all his sum do correctly and have his name write on the blackboard on the roll of honor ; the next morning Anne , have wrestle wildly with decimal the entire evening before , would be first .
One awful day they be tie and their name be write up together .
It be almost as bad a a take-notice and Anne 's mortification be as evident a Gilbert 's satisfaction .
When the write examination at the end of each month be hold the suspense be terrible .
The first month Gilbert come out three mark ahead .
The second Anne beat him by five .
But her triumph be mar by the fact that Gilbert congratulate her heartily before the whole school .
It would have be ever so much sweeter to her if he have felt the sting of his defeat .
Mr. Phillips might not be a very good teacher ; but a pupil so inflexibly determine on learn a Anne be could hardly escape make progress under any kind of teacher .
By the end of the term Anne and Gilbert be both promote into the fifth class and allow to begin study the element of `` the branch '' -- by which Latin , geometry , French , and algebra be mean .
In geometry Anne meet her Waterloo .
`` It 's perfectly awful stuff , Marilla , '' she groan .
`` I 'm sure I 'll never be able to make head or tail of it .
There be no scope for imagination in it at all .
Mr. Phillips say I 'm the bad dunce he ever saw at it .
And Gil -- I mean some of the others be so smart at it .
It be extremely mortifying , Marilla .
`` Even Diana get along good than I do .
But I do n't mind be beat by Diana .
Even although we meet a stranger now I still love her with an INEXTINGUISHABLE love .
It make me very sad at time to think about her .
But really , Marilla , one ca n't stay sad very long in such an interesting world , can one ? ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
Anne to the Rescue ALL thing great be wind up with all thing little .
At first glance it might not seem that the decision of a certain Canadian Premier to include Prince Edward Island in a political tour could have much or anything to do with the fortune of little Anne Shirley at Green Gables .
But it have .
It be a January the Premier come , to address his loyal supporter and such of his nonsupporters a chose to be present at the monster mass meeting hold in Charlottetown .
Most of the Avonlea people be on Premier 's side of politics ; hence on the night of the meeting nearly all the men and a goodly proportion of the woman have go to town thirty mile away .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde have go too .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde be a red-hot politician and could n't have believe that the political rally could be carry through without her , although she be on the opposite side of politics .
So she go to town and take her husband -- Thomas would be useful in look after the horse -- and Marilla Cuthbert with her .
Marilla have a sneaking interest in politics herself , and a she think it might be her only chance to see a real live Premier , she promptly take it , leave Anne and Matthew to keep house until her return the following day .
Hence , while Marilla and Mrs. Rachel be enjoy themselves hugely at the mass meeting , Anne and Matthew have the cheerful kitchen at Green Gables all to themselves .
A bright fire be glow in the old-fashioned Waterloo stove and blue-white frost crystal be shin on the windowpane .
Matthew nod over a FARMERS ' ADVOCATE on the sofa and Anne at the table study her lesson with grim determination , despite sundry wistful glance at the clock shelf , where lay a new book that Jane Andrews have lend her that day .
Jane have assure her that it be warrant to produce any number of thrill , or word to that effect , and Anne 's finger tingle to reach out for it .
But that would mean Gilbert Blythe 's triumph on the morrow .
Anne turn her back on the clock shelf and try to imagine it be n't there .
`` Matthew , do you ever study geometry when you go to school ? ''
`` Well now , no , I do n't , '' say Matthew , come out of his doze with a start .
`` I wish you have , '' sigh Anne , `` because then you 'd be able to sympathize with me .
You ca n't sympathize properly if you 've never study it .
It be cast a cloud over my whole life .
I 'm such a dunce at it , Matthew . ''
`` Well now , I dunno , '' say Matthew soothingly .
`` I guess you 're all right at anything .
Mr. Phillips tell me last week in Blair 's store at Carmody that you be the smart scholar in school and be make rapid progress .
` Rapid progress ' be his very word .
There 's them a run down Teddy Phillips and say he ai n't much of a teacher , but I guess he 's all right . ''
Matthew would have think anyone who praise Anne be `` all right . ''
`` I 'm sure I 'd get on good with geometry if only he would n't change the letter , '' complain Anne .
`` I learn the proposition off by heart and then he draw it on the blackboard and put different letter from what be in the book and I get all mixed up .
I do n't think a teacher should take such a mean advantage , do you ?
We 're study agriculture now and I 've find out at last what make the road red .
It 's a great comfort .
I wonder how Marilla and Mrs. Lynde be enjoy themselves .
Mrs. Lynde say Canada be go to the dog the way thing be be run at Ottawa and that it 's an awful warning to the elector .
She say if woman be allow to vote we would soon see a blessed change .
What way do you vote , Matthew ? ''
`` Conservative , '' say Matthew promptly .
To vote Conservative be part of Matthew 's religion .
`` Then I 'm Conservative too , '' say Anne decidedly .
`` I 'm glad because Gil -- because some of the boy in school be Grits .
I guess Mr. Phillips be a Grit too because Prissy Andrews 's father be one , and Ruby Gillis say that when a man be court he always have to agree with the girl 's mother in religion and her father in politics .
Is that true , Matthew ? ''
`` Well now , I dunno , '' say Matthew .
`` Did you ever go court , Matthew ? ''
`` Well now , no , I dunno 's I ever do , '' say Matthew , who have certainly never think of such a thing in his whole existence .
Anne reflect with her chin in her hand .
`` It must be rather interesting , do n't you think , Matthew ?
Ruby Gillis say when she grow up she 's go to have ever so many beau on the string and have them all crazy about her ; but I think that would be too exciting .
I 'd rather have just one in his right mind .
But Ruby Gillis know a great deal about such matter because she have so many big sister , and Mrs. Lynde say the Gillis girl have go off like hot cake .
Mr. Phillips go up to see Prissy Andrews nearly every evening .
He say it be to help her with her lesson but Miranda Sloane be study for Queen 's too , and I should think she need help a lot more than Prissy because she 's ever so much stupider , but he never go to help her in the evening at all .
There be a great many thing in this world that I ca n't understand very well , Matthew . ''
`` Well now , I dunno a I comprehend them all myself , '' acknowledge Matthew .
`` Well , I suppose I must finish up my lesson .
I wo n't allow myself to open that new book Jane lend me until I 'm through .
But it 's a terrible temptation , Matthew .
Even when I turn my back on it I can see it there just a plain .
Jane say she cry herself sick over it .
I love a book that make me cry .
But I think I 'll carry that book into the sit room and lock it in the jam closet and give you the key .
And you must NOT give it to me , Matthew , until my lesson be do , not even if I implore you on my bended knee .
It 's all very well to say resist temptation , but it 's ever so much easy to resist it if you ca n't get the key .
And then shall I run down the cellar and get some russet , Matthew ?
Would n't you like some russet ? ''
`` Well now , I dunno but what I would , '' say Matthew , who never eat russet but know Anne 's weakness for them .
Just a Anne emerge triumphantly from the cellar with her plateful of russet come the sound of fly footstep on the icy board walk outside and the next moment the kitchen door be fling open and in rushed Diana Barry , white face and breathless , with a shawl wrap hastily around her head .
Anne promptly let go of her candle and plate in her surprise , and plate , candle , and apple crash together down the cellar ladder and be find at the bottom embed in melted grease , the next day , by Marilla , who gather them up and thanked mercy the house have n't be set on fire .
`` Whatever be the matter , Diana ? ''
cry Anne .
`` Has your mother relent at last ? ''
`` Oh , Anne , do come quick , '' implore Diana nervously .
`` Minnie May be awful sick -- she 's get croup .
Young Mary Joe say -- and Father and Mother be away to town and there 's nobody to go for the doctor .
Minnie May be awful bad and Young Mary Joe do n't know what to do -- and oh , Anne , I 'm so scared ! ''
Matthew , without a word , reach out for cap and coat , slip past Diana and away into the darkness of the yard .
`` He 's go to harness the sorrel mare to go to Carmody for the doctor , '' say Anne , who be hurry on hood and jacket .
`` I know it as well a if he 'd say so .
Matthew and I be such kindred spirit I can read his thought without word at all . ''
`` I do n't believe he 'll find the doctor at Carmody , '' sob Diana .
`` I know that Dr. Blair go to town and I guess Dr. Spencer would go too .
Young Mary Joe never saw anybody with croup and Mrs. Lynde be away .
Oh , Anne ! ''
`` Do n't cry , Di , '' say Anne cheerily .
`` I know exactly what to do for croup .
You forget that Mrs. Hammond have twin three time .
When you look after three pair of twin you naturally get a lot of experience .
They all have croup regularly .
Just wait till I get the ipecac bottle -- you may n't have any at your house .
Come on now . ''
The two little girl hasten out hand in hand and hurry through Lover 's Lane and across the crusted field beyond , for the snow be too deep to go by the short wood way .
Anne , although sincerely sorry for Minnie May , be far from be insensible to the romance of the situation and to the sweetness of once more sharing that romance with a kindred spirit .
The night be clear and frosty , all ebony of shadow and silver of snowy slope ; big star be shin over the silent field ; here and there the dark point fir stand up with snow powder their branch and the wind whistle through them .
Anne think it be truly delightful to go skim through all this mystery and loveliness with your bosom friend who have be so long estrange .
Minnie May , age three , be really very sick .
She lay on the kitchen sofa feverish and restless , while her hoarse breathing could be hear all over the house .
Young Mary Joe , a buxom , broad-faced French girl from the creek , whom Mrs. Barry have engage to stay with the child during her absence , be helpless and bewilder , quite incapable of think what to do , or do it if she think of it .
Anne go to work with skill and promptness .
`` Minnie May have croup all right ; she 's pretty bad , but I 've see them bad .
First we must have lot of hot water .
I declare , Diana , there be n't more than a cupful in the kettle !
There , I 've fill it up , and , Mary Joe , you may put some wood in the stove .
I do n't want to hurt your feeling but it seem to me you might have think of this before if you 'd any imagination .
Now , I 'll undress Minnie May and put her to bed and you try to find some soft flannel cloth , Diana .
I 'm go to give her a dose of ipecac first of all . ''
Minnie May do not take kindly to the ipecac but Anne have not bring up three pair of twin for nothing .
Down that ipecac go , not only once , but many time during the long , anxious night when the two little girl work patiently over the suffer Minnie May , and Young Mary Joe , honestly anxious to do all she could , keep up a roaring fire and heat more water than would have be need for a hospital of croupy baby .
It be three o'clock when Matthew come with a doctor , for he have be oblige to go all the way to Spencervale for one .
But the press need for assistance be past .
Minnie May be much good and be sleep soundly .
`` I be awfully near give up in despair , '' explain Anne .
`` She get bad and bad until she be sicker than ever the Hammond twin be , even the last pair .
I actually think she be go to choke to death .
I give her every drop of ipecac in that bottle and when the last dose go down I say to myself -- not to Diana or Young Mary Joe , because I do n't want to worry them any more than they be worry , but I have to say it to myself just to relieve my feeling -- ` This be the last lingering hope and I fear , tis a vain one . '
But in about three minute she cough up the phlegm and begin to get well right away .
You must just imagine my relief , doctor , because I ca n't express it in word .
You know there be some thing that can not be express in word . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' nod the doctor .
He look at Anne a if he be think some thing about her that could n't be express in word .
Later on , however , he express them to Mr. and Mrs. Barry .
`` That little redheaded girl they have over at Cuthbert 's be as smart a they make 'em .
I tell you she save that baby 's life , for it would have be too late by the time I get there .
She seem to have a skill and presence of mind perfectly wonderful in a child of her age .
I never saw anything like the eye of her when she be explain the case to me . ''
Anne have go home in the wonderful , white-frosted winter morning , heavy eye from loss of sleep , but still talk unweariedly to Matthew a they cross the long white field and walk under the glittering fairy arch of the Lover 's Lane maple .
`` Oh , Matthew , be n't it a wonderful morning ?
The world look like something God have just imagine for His own pleasure , do n't it ?
Those tree look a if I could blow them away with a breath -- pouf !
I 'm so glad I live in a world where there be white frost , be n't you ?
And I 'm so glad Mrs. Hammond have three pair of twin after all .
If she have n't I might n't have know what to do for Minnie May .
I 'm real sorry I be ever cross with Mrs. Hammond for have twin .
But , oh , Matthew , I 'm so sleepy .
I ca n't go to school .
I just know I could n't keep my eye open and I 'd be so stupid .
But I hate to stay home , for Gil -- some of the others will get head of the class , and it 's so hard to get up again -- although of course the hard it be the more satisfaction you have when you do get up , have n't you ? ''
`` Well now , I guess you 'll manage all right , '' say Matthew , look at Anne 's white little face and the dark shadow under her eye .
`` You just go right to bed and have a good sleep .
I 'll do all the chore . ''
Anne accordingly go to bed and sleep so long and soundly that it be well on in the white and rosy winter afternoon when she awake and descend to the kitchen where Marilla , who have arrive home in the meantime , be sit knitting .
`` Oh , do you see the Premier ? ''
exclaim Anne at once .
`` What do he look like Marilla ? ''
`` Well , he never get to be Premier on account of his look , '' say Marilla .
`` Such a nose a that man have !
But he can speak .
I be proud of be a Conservative .
Rachel Lynde , of course , be a Liberal , have no use for him .
Your dinner be in the oven , Anne , and you can get yourself some blue plum preserve out of the pantry .
I guess you 're hungry .
Matthew have be tell me about last night .
I must say it be fortunate you know what to do .
I would n't have have any idea myself , for I never saw a case of croup .
There now , never mind talk till you 've have your dinner .
I can tell by the look of you that you 're just full up with speech , but they 'll keep . ''
Marilla have something to tell Anne , but she do not tell it just then for she know if she do Anne 's consequent excitement would lift her clear out of the region of such material matter a appetite or dinner .
Not until Anne have finish her saucer of blue plum do Marilla say : `` Mrs. Barry be here this afternoon , Anne .
She want to see you , but I would n't wake you up .
She say you save Minnie May 's life , and she be very sorry she act a she do in that affair of the currant wine .
She say she know now you do n't mean to set Diana drunk , and she hop you 'll forgive her and be good friend with Diana again .
You 're to go over this evening if you like for Diana ca n't stir outside the door on account of a bad cold she catch last night .
Now , Anne Shirley , for pity 's sake do n't fly up into the air . ''
The warning seem not unnecessary , so uplifted and aerial be Anne 's expression and attitude a she spring to her foot , her face irradiate with the flame of her spirit .
`` Oh , Marilla , can I go right now -- without wash my dish ?
I 'll wash them when I come back , but I can not tie myself down to anything so unromantic a dishwashing at this thrill moment . ''
`` Yes , yes , run along , '' say Marilla indulgently .
`` Anne Shirley -- be you crazy ?
Come back this instant and put something on you .
I might as well call to the wind .
She 's go without a cap or wrap .
Look at her tear through the orchard with her hair streaming .
It 'll be a mercy if she do n't catch her death of cold . ''
Anne come dance home in the purple winter twilight across the snowy place .
Afar in the southwest be the great shimmering , pearl-like sparkle of an evening star in a sky that be pale golden and ethereal rise over gleaming white space and dark glen of spruce .
The tinkle of sleigh bell among the snowy hill come like elfin chime through the frosty air , but their music be not sweet than the song in Anne 's heart and on her lip .
`` You see before you a perfectly happy person , Marilla , '' she announce .
`` I 'm perfectly happy -- yes , in spite of my red hair .
Just at present I have a soul above red hair .
Mrs. Barry kiss me and cry and say she be so sorry and she could never repay me .
I felt fearfully embarrass , Marilla , but I just say as politely a I could , ' I have no hard feeling for you , Mrs. Barry .
I assure you once for all that I do not mean to intoxicate Diana and henceforth I shall cover the past with the mantle of oblivion . '
That be a pretty dignified way of speaking be n't it , Marilla ? ''
`` I felt that I be heap coal of fire on Mrs. Barry 's head .
And Diana and I have a lovely afternoon .
Diana show me a new fancy crochet stitch her aunt over at Carmody teach her .
Not a soul in Avonlea know it but u , and we pledge a solemn vow never to reveal it to anyone else .
Diana give me a beautiful card with a wreath of rose on it and a verse of poetry : `` If you love me a I love you Nothing but death can part u two .
`` And that be true , Marilla .
We 're go to ask Mr. Phillips to let u sit together in school again , and Gertie Pye can go with Minnie Andrews .
We have an elegant tea .
Mrs. Barry have the very best china set out , Marilla , just a if I be real company .
I ca n't tell you what a thrill it give me .
Nobody ever use their very best china on my account before .
And we have fruit cake and pound cake and doughnut and two kind of preserve , Marilla .
And Mrs. Barry ask me if I take tea and say ` Pa , why do n't you pass the biscuit to Anne ? '
It must be lovely to be grow up , Marilla , when just be treat a if you be be so nice . ''
`` I do n't know about that , '' say Marilla , with a brief sigh .
`` Well , anyway , when I be grow up , '' say Anne decidedly , `` I 'm always go to talk to little girl a if they be too , and I 'll never laugh when they use big word .
I know from sorrowful experience how that hurt one 's feeling .
After tea Diana and I make taffy .
The taffy be n't very good , I suppose because neither Diana nor I have ever make any before .
Diana leave me to stir it while she butter the plate and I forget and let it burn ; and then when we set it out on the platform to cool the cat walk over one plate and that have to be throw away .
But the making of it be splendid fun .
Then when I come home Mrs. Barry ask me to come over as often a I could and Diana stand at the window and throw kiss to me all the way down to Lover 's Lane .
I assure you , Marilla , that I feel like pray tonight and I 'm go to think out a special brand-new prayer in honor of the occasion . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
A Concert a Catastrophe and a Confession `` MARILLA , can I go over to see Diana just for a minute ? ''
ask Anne , run breathlessly down from the east gable one February evening .
`` I do n't see what you want to be traipse about after dark for , '' say Marilla shortly .
`` You and Diana walk home from school together and then stand down there in the snow for half an hour more , your tongue go the whole bless time , clickety-clack .
So I do n't think you 're very badly off to see her again . ''
`` But she want to see me , '' plead Anne .
`` She have something very important to tell me . ''
`` How do you know she have ? ''
`` Because she just signal to me from her window .
We have arrange a way to signal with our candle and cardboard .
We set the candle on the window sill and make flash by pass the cardboard back and forth .
So many flash mean a certain thing .
It be my idea , Marilla . ''
`` I 'll warrant you it be , '' say Marilla emphatically .
`` And the next thing you 'll be set fire to the curtain with your signal nonsense . ''
`` Oh , we 're very careful , Marilla .
And it 's so interesting .
Two flash mean , ` Are you there ? '
Three mean ` yes ' and four ` no . '
Five mean , ` Come over as soon a possible , because I have something important to reveal . '
Diana have just signal five flash , and I 'm really suffer to know what it be . ''
`` Well , you need n't suffer any long , '' say Marilla sarcastically .
`` You can go , but you 're to be back here in just ten minute , remember that . ''
Anne do remember it and be back in the stipulated time , although probably no mortal will ever know just what it cost her to confine the discussion of Diana 's important communication within the limit of ten minute .
But at least she have make good use of them .
`` Oh , Marilla , what do you think ?
You know tomorrow be Diana 's birthday .
Well , her mother tell her she could ask me to go home with her from school and stay all night with her .
And her cousin be come over from Newbridge in a big pung sleigh to go to the Debating Club concert at the hall tomorrow night .
And they be go to take Diana and me to the concert -- if you 'll let me go , that be .
You will , wo n't you , Marilla ?
Oh , I feel so excited . ''
`` You can calm down then , because you 're not go .
You 're good at home in your own bed , and a for that club concert , it 's all nonsense , and little girl should not be allow to go out to such place at all . ''
`` I 'm sure the Debating Club be a most respectable affair , '' plead Anne .
`` I 'm not say it be n't .
But you 're not go to begin gad about to concert and stay out all hour of the night .
Pretty doings for child .
I 'm surprise at Mrs. Barry 's letting Diana go . ''
`` But it 's such a very special occasion , '' mourn Anne , on the verge of tear .
`` Diana have only one birthday in a year .
It be n't a if birthday be common thing , Marilla .
Prissy Andrews be go to recite ` Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight . '
That be such a good moral piece , Marilla , I 'm sure it would do me lot of good to hear it .
And the choir be go to sing four lovely pathetic song that be pretty near as good a hymn .
And oh , Marilla , the minister be go to take part ; yes , indeed , he be ; he 's go to give an address .
That will be just about the same thing a a sermon .
Please , may n't I go , Marilla ? ''
`` You hear what I say , Anne , do n't you ?
Take off your boot now and go to bed .
It 's past eight . ''
`` There 's just one more thing , Marilla , '' say Anne , with the air of produce the last shot in her locker .
`` Mrs. Barry tell Diana that we might sleep in the spare-room bed .
Think of the honor of your little Anne be put in the spare-room bed . ''
`` It 's an honor you 'll have to get along without .
Go to bed , Anne , and do n't let me hear another word out of you . ''
When Anne , with tear roll over her cheek , have go sorrowfully upstairs , Matthew , who have be apparently sound asleep on the lounge during the whole dialogue , open his eye and say decidedly : `` Well now , Marilla , I think you ought to let Anne go . ''
`` I do n't then , '' retort Marilla .
`` Who 's bring this child up , Matthew , you or me ? ''
`` Well now , you , '' admit Matthew .
`` Do n't interfere then . ''
`` Well now , I ai n't interfere .
It ai n't interfere to have your own opinion .
And my opinion be that you ought to let Anne go . ''
`` You 'd think I ought to let Anne go to the moon if she take the notion , I 've no doubt '' be Marilla 's amiable rejoinder .
`` I might have let her spend the night with Diana , if that be all .
But I do n't approve of this concert plan .
She 'd go there and catch cold like a not , and have her head fill up with nonsense and excitement .
It would unsettle her for a week .
I understand that child 's disposition and what 's good for it good than you , Matthew . ''
`` I think you ought to let Anne go , '' repeat Matthew firmly .
Argument be not his strong point , but hold fast to his opinion certainly be .
Marilla give a gasp of helplessness and take refuge in silence .
The next morning , when Anne be wash the breakfast dish in the pantry , Matthew pause on his way out to the barn to say to Marilla again : `` I think you ought to let Anne go , Marilla . ''
For a moment Marilla look thing not lawful to be utter .
Then she yield to the inevitable and say tartly : `` Very well , she can go , since nothing else 'll please you . ''
Anne fly out of the pantry , drip dishcloth in hand .
`` Oh , Marilla , Marilla , say those bless word again . ''
`` I guess once be enough to say them .
This be Matthew 's doings and I wash my hand of it .
If you catch pneumonia sleeping in a strange bed or come out of that hot hall in the middle of the night , do n't blame me , blame Matthew .
Anne Shirley , you 're drip greasy water all over the floor .
I never saw such a careless child . ''
`` Oh , I know I 'm a great trial to you , Marilla , '' say Anne repentantly .
`` I make so many mistake .
But then just think of all the mistake I do n't make , although I might .
I 'll get some sand and scrub up the spot before I go to school .
Oh , Marilla , my heart be just set on go to that concert .
I never be to a concert in my life , and when the other girl talk about them in school I feel so out of it .
You do n't know just how I felt about it , but you see Matthew do .
Matthew understand me , and it 's so nice to be understood , Marilla . ''
Anne be too excited to do herself justice a to lesson that morning in school .
Gilbert Blythe spell her down in class and leave her clear out of sight in mental arithmetic .
Anne 's consequent humiliation be less than it might have be , however , in view of the concert and the spare-room bed .
She and Diana talk so constantly about it all day that with a stricter teacher than Mr. Phillips dire disgrace must inevitably have be their portion .
Anne felt that she could not have bear it if she have not be go to the concert , for nothing else be discuss that day in school .
The Avonlea Debating Club , which meet fortnightly all winter , have have several small free entertainment ; but this be to be a big affair , admission ten cent , in aid of the library .
The Avonlea young people have be practice for week , and all the scholar be especially interested in it by reason of old brother and sister who be go to take part .
Everybody in school over nine year of age expect to go , except Carrie Sloane , whose father share Marilla 's opinion about small girl go out to night concert .
Carrie Sloane cry into her grammar all the afternoon and felt that life be not worth living .
For Anne the real excitement begin with the dismissal of school and increase therefrom in crescendo until it reach to a crash of positive ecstasy in the concert itself .
They have a `` perfectly elegant tea ; '' and then come the delicious occupation of dress in Diana 's little room upstairs .
Diana do Anne 's front hair in the new pompadour style and Anne tie Diana 's bow with the especial knack she possess ; and they experiment with at least half a dozen different way of arrange their back hair .
At last they be ready , cheeks scarlet and eye glow with excitement .
True , Anne could not help a little pang when she contrast her plain black tam and shapeless , tight-sleeved , homemade gray-cloth coat with Diana 's jaunty fur cap and smart little jacket .
But she remember in time that she have an imagination and could use it .
Then Diana 's cousin , the Murrays from Newbridge , come ; they all crowd into the big pung sleigh , among straw and furry robe .
Anne revel in the drive to the hall , slip along over the satin-smooth road with the snow crisp under the runner .
There be a magnificent sunset , and the snowy hill and deep-blue water of the St. Lawrence Gulf seem to rim in the splendor like a huge bowl of pearl and sapphire brim with wine and fire .
Tinkles of sleigh bell and distant laughter , that seem like the mirth of wood elf , come from every quarter .
`` Oh , Diana , '' breathe Anne , squeeze Diana 's mittened hand under the fur robe , `` be n't it all like a beautiful dream ?
Do I really look the same a usual ?
I feel so different that it seem to me it must show in my look . ''
`` You look awfully nice , '' say Diana , who have just receive a compliment from one of her cousin , felt that she ought to pass it on .
`` You 've get the lovely color . ''
The program that night be a series of `` thrill '' for at least one listener in the audience , and , a Anne assure Diana , every succeeding thrill be thrillier than the last .
When Prissy Andrews , attire in a new pink-silk waist with a string of pearl about her smooth white throat and real carnation in her hair -- rumor whisper that the master have send all the way to town for them for her -- `` climb the slimy ladder , dark without one ray of light , '' Anne shiver in luxurious sympathy ; when the choir sang `` Far Above the Gentle Daisies '' Anne gaze at the ceiling a if it be fresco with angel ; when Sam Sloane proceed to explain and illustrate `` How Sockery Set a Hen '' Anne laugh until people sit near her laughed too , more out of sympathy with her than with amusement at a selection that be rather threadbare even in Avonlea ; and when Mr. Phillips give Mark Antony 's oration over the dead body of Caesar in the most heart-stirring tone -- look at Prissy Andrews at the end of every sentence -- Anne felt that she could rise and mutiny on the spot if but one Roman citizen lead the way .
Only one number on the program fail to interest her .
When Gilbert Blythe recite `` Bingen on the Rhine '' Anne pick up Rhoda Murray 's library book and read it until he have finish , when she sit rigidly stiff and motionless while Diana clap her hand until they tingle .
It be eleven when they get home , sate with dissipation , but with the exceed sweet pleasure of talk it all over still to come .
Everybody seem asleep and the house be dark and silent .
Anne and Diana tiptoe into the parlor , a long narrow room out of which the spare room open .
It be pleasantly warm and dimly light by the ember of a fire in the grate .
`` Let 's undress here , '' say Diana .
`` It 's so nice and warm . ''
`` Has n't it be a delightful time ? ''
sigh Anne rapturously .
`` It must be splendid to get up and recite there .
Do you suppose we will ever be ask to do it , Diana ? ''
`` Yes , of course , someday .
They 're always want the big scholar to recite .
Gilbert Blythe do often and he 's only two year old than u .
Oh , Anne , how could you pretend not to listen to him ?
When he come to the line , `` THERE 'S ANOTHER , not A SISTER , he look right down at you . ''
`` Diana , '' say Anne with dignity , `` you be my bosom friend , but I can not allow even you to speak to me of that person .
Are you ready for bed ?
Let 's run a race and see who 'll get to the bed first . ''
The suggestion appeal to Diana .
The two little white-clad figure fly down the long room , through the spare-room door , and bound on the bed at the same moment .
And then -- something -- move beneath them , there be a gasp and a cry -- and somebody say in muffled accent : `` Merciful goodness ! ''
Anne and Diana be never able to tell just how they get off that bed and out of the room .
They only know that after one frantic rush they find themselves tiptoe shiveringly upstairs .
`` Oh , who be it -- WHAT be it ? ''
whispered Anne , her teeth chatter with cold and fright .
`` It be Aunt Josephine , '' say Diana , gasp with laughter .
`` Oh , Anne , it be Aunt Josephine , however she come to be there .
Oh , and I know she will be furious .
It 's dreadful -- it 's really dreadful -- but do you ever know anything so funny , Anne ? ''
`` Who be your Aunt Josephine ? ''
`` She 's father 's aunt and she live in Charlottetown .
She 's awfully old -- seventy anyhow -- and I do n't believe she be EVER a little girl .
We be expect her out for a visit , but not so soon .
She 's awfully prim and proper and she 'll scold dreadfully about this , I know .
Well , we 'll have to sleep with Minnie May -- and you ca n't think how she kick . ''
Miss Josephine Barry do not appear at the early breakfast the next morning .
Mrs. Barry smile kindly at the two little girl .
`` Did you have a good time last night ?
I try to stay awake until you come home , for I want to tell you Aunt Josephine have come and that you would have to go upstairs after all , but I be so tired I fell asleep .
I hope you do n't disturb your aunt , Diana . ''
Diana preserve a discreet silence , but she and Anne exchange furtive smile of guilty amusement across the table .
Anne hurry home after breakfast and so remain in blissful ignorance of the disturbance which presently result in the Barry household until the late afternoon , when she go down to Mrs. Lynde 's on an errand for Marilla .
`` So you and Diana nearly frighten poor old Miss Barry to death last night ? ''
say Mrs. Lynde severely , but with a twinkle in her eye .
`` Mrs. Barry be here a few minute ago on her way to Carmody .
She 's feel real worry over it .
Old Miss Barry be in a terrible temper when she get up this morning -- and Josephine Barry 's temper be no joke , I can tell you that .
She would n't speak to Diana at all . ''
`` It be n't Diana 's fault , '' say Anne contritely .
`` It be mine .
I suggest race to see who would get into bed first . ''
`` I know it ! ''
say Mrs. Lynde , with the exultation of a correct guesser .
`` I know that idea come out of your head .
Well , it 's make a nice lot of trouble , that 's what .
Old Miss Barry come out to stay for a month , but she declare she wo n't stay another day and be go right back to town tomorrow , Sunday and all a it be .
She 'd have go today if they could have take her .
She have promise to pay for a quarter 's music lesson for Diana , but now she be determine to do nothing at all for such a tomboy .
Oh , I guess they have a lively time of it there this morning .
The Barrys must feel cut up .
Old Miss Barry be rich and they 'd like to keep on the good side of her .
Of course , Mrs. Barry do n't say just that to me , but I 'm a pretty good judge of human nature , that 's what . ''
`` I 'm such an unlucky girl , '' mourn Anne .
`` I 'm always get into scrape myself and get my best friend -- people I 'd shed my heart 's blood for -- into them too .
Can you tell me why it be so , Mrs. Lynde ? ''
`` It 's because you 're too heedless and impulsive , child , that 's what .
You never stop to think -- whatever come into your head to say or do you say or do it without a moment 's reflection . ''
`` Oh , but that 's the best of it , '' protest Anne .
`` Something just flash into your mind , so exciting , and you must out with it .
If you stop to think it over you spoil it all .
Have n't you never felt that yourself , Mrs. Lynde ? ''
No , Mrs. Lynde have not .
She shake her head sagely .
`` You must learn to think a little , Anne , that 's what .
The proverb you need to go by be ` Look before you leap ' -- especially into spare-room bed . ''
Mrs. Lynde laugh comfortably over her mild joke , but Anne remain pensive .
She saw nothing to laugh at in the situation , which to her eye appear very serious .
When she leave Mrs. Lynde 's she take her way across the crusted field to Orchard Slope .
Diana meet her at the kitchen door .
`` Your Aunt Josephine be very cross about it , be n't she ? ''
whisper Anne .
`` Yes , '' answer Diana , stifle a giggle with an apprehensive glance over her shoulder at the closed sitting-room door .
`` She be fairly dance with rage , Anne .
Oh , how she scold .
She say I be the worst-behaved girl she ever saw and that my parent ought to be ashamed of the way they have bring me up .
She say she wo n't stay and I 'm sure I do n't care .
But Father and Mother do . ''
`` Why do n't you tell them it be my fault ? ''
demand Anne .
`` It 's likely I 'd do such a thing , be n't it ? ''
say Diana with just scorn .
`` I 'm no telltale , Anne Shirley , and anyhow I be just as much to blame a you . ''
`` Well , I 'm go in to tell her myself , '' say Anne resolutely .
Diana star .
`` Anne Shirley , you 'd never !
why -- she 'll eat you alive ! ''
`` Do n't frighten me any more than I be frightened , '' implore Anne .
`` I 'd rather walk up to a cannon 's mouth .
But I 've get to do it , Diana .
It be my fault and I 've get to confess .
I 've have practice in confess , fortunately . ''
`` Well , she 's in the room , '' say Diana .
`` You can go in if you want to .
I would n't dare .
And I do n't believe you 'll do a bit of good . ''
With this encouragement Anne beard the lion in it den -- that be to say , walk resolutely up to the sitting-room door and knock faintly .
A sharp `` Come in '' follow .
Miss Josephine Barry , thin , prim , and rigid , be knit fiercely by the fire , her wrath quite unappeased and her eye snap through her gold-rimmed glass .
She wheel around in her chair , expect to see Diana , and behold a white-faced girl whose great eye be brim up with a mixture of desperate courage and shrink terror .
`` Who be you ? ''
demand Miss Josephine Barry , without ceremony .
`` I 'm Anne of Green Gables , '' say the small visitor tremulously , clasp her hand with her characteristic gesture , `` and I 've come to confess , if you please . ''
`` Confess what ? ''
`` That it be all my fault about jump into bed on you last night .
I suggest it .
Diana would never have think of such a thing , I be sure .
Diana be a very ladylike girl , Miss Barry .
So you must see how unjust it be to blame her . ''
`` Oh , I must , hey ?
I rather think Diana do her share of the jumping at least .
Such carryings on in a respectable house ! ''
`` But we be only in fun , '' persist Anne .
`` I think you ought to forgive u , Miss Barry , now that we 've apologize .
And anyhow , please forgive Diana and let her have her music lesson .
Diana 's heart be set on her music lesson , Miss Barry , and I know too well what it be to set your heart on a thing and not get it .
If you must be cross with anyone , be cross with me .
I 've be so use in my early day to have people cross at me that I can endure it much well than Diana can . ''
Much of the snap have go out of the old lady 's eye by this time and be replace by a twinkle of amused interest .
But she still say severely : `` I do n't think it be any excuse for you that you be only in fun .
Little girl never indulge in that kind of fun when I be young .
You do n't know what it be to be awaken out of a sound sleep , after a long and arduous journey , by two great girl come bounce down on you . ''
`` I do n't KNOW , but I can IMAGINE , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` I 'm sure it must have be very disturb .
But then , there be our side of it too .
Have you any imagination , Miss Barry ?
If you have , just put yourself in our place .
We do n't know there be anybody in that bed and you nearly scar u to death .
It be simply awful the way we felt .
And then we could n't sleep in the spare room after be promise .
I suppose you be use to sleep in spare room .
But just imagine what you would feel like if you be a little orphan girl who have never have such an honor . ''
All the snap have go by this time .
Miss Barry actually laugh -- a sound which cause Diana , wait in speechless anxiety in the kitchen outside , to give a great gasp of relief .
`` I 'm afraid my imagination be a little rusty -- it 's so long since I use it , '' she say .
`` I dare say your claim to sympathy be just as strong a mine .
It all depend on the way we look at it .
Sit down here and tell me about yourself . ''
`` I be very sorry I ca n't , '' say Anne firmly .
`` I would like to , because you seem like an interesting lady , and you might even be a kindred spirit although you do n't look very much like it .
But it be my duty to go home to Miss Marilla Cuthbert .
Miss Marilla Cuthbert be a very kind lady who have take me to bring up properly .
She be do her best , but it be very discouraging work .
You must not blame her because I jump on the bed .
But before I go I do wish you would tell me if you will forgive Diana and stay just as long a you mean to in Avonlea . ''
`` I think perhaps I will if you will come over and talk to me occasionally , '' say Miss Barry .
That even Miss Barry give Diana a silver bangle bracelet and tell the senior member of the household that she have unpack her valise .
`` I 've make up my mind to stay simply for the sake of get well acquaint with that Anne-girl , '' she say frankly .
`` She amuse me , and at my time of life an amuse person be a rarity . ''
Marilla 's only comment when she hear the story be , `` I tell you so . ''
This be for Matthew 's benefit .
Miss Barry stay her month out and over .
She be a more agreeable guest than usual , for Anne keep her in good humor .
They become firm friend .
When Miss Barry go away she say : `` Remember , you Anne-girl , when you come to town you 're to visit me and I 'll put you in my very spare spare-room bed to sleep . ''
`` Miss Barry be a kindred spirit , after all , '' Anne confide to Marilla .
`` You would n't think so to look at her , but she be .
You do n't find it right out at first , a in Matthew 's case , but after a while you come to see it .
Kindred spirit be not so scarce a I use to think .
It 's splendid to find out there be so many of them in the world . ''
CHAPTER XX .
A Good Imagination Gone Wrong Spring have come once more to Green Gables -- the beautiful capricious , reluctant Canadian spring , linger along through April and May in a succession of sweet , fresh , chilly day , with pink sunset and miracle of resurrection and growth .
The maple in Lover 's Lane be red bud and little curly fern push up around the Dryad 's Bubble .
Away up in the barren , behind Mr. Silas Sloane 's place , the Mayflowers blossom out , pink and white star of sweetness under their brown leaf .
All the school girl and boy have one golden afternoon gather them , come home in the clear , echo twilight with arm and basket full of flowery spoil .
`` I 'm so sorry for people who live in land where there be no Mayflowers , '' say Anne .
`` Diana say perhaps they have something well , but there could n't be anything good than Mayflowers , could there , Marilla ?
And Diana say if they do n't know what they be like they do n't miss them .
But I think that be the sad thing of all .
I think it would be TRAGIC , Marilla , not to know what Mayflowers be like and NOT to miss them .
Do you know what I think Mayflowers be , Marilla ?
I think they must be the soul of the flower that die last summer and this be their heaven .
But we have a splendid time today , Marilla .
We have our lunch down in a big mossy hollow by an old well -- such a ROMANTIC spot .
Charlie Sloane dare Arty Gillis to jump over it , and Arty do because he would n't take a dare .
Nobody would in school .
It be very FASHIONABLE to dare .
Mr. Phillips give all the Mayflowers he find to Prissy Andrews and I hear him to say ` sweet to the sweet . '
He get that out of a book , I know ; but it show he have some imagination .
I be offer some Mayflowers too , but I reject them with scorn .
I ca n't tell you the person 's name because I have vow never to let it cross my lip .
We make wreath of the Mayflowers and put them on our hat ; and when the time come to go home we march in procession down the road , two by two , with our bouquet and wreath , sing ` My Home on the Hill . '
Oh , it be so thrilling , Marilla .
All Mr. Silas Sloane 's folk rush out to see u and everybody we meet on the road stop and star after u .
We make a real sensation . ''
`` Not much wonder !
Such silly doings ! ''
be Marilla 's response .
After the Mayflowers come the violet , and Violet Vale be empurple with them .
Anne walk through it on her way to school with reverent step and worship eye , a if she tread on holy ground .
`` Somehow , '' she tell Diana , `` when I 'm go through here I do n't really care whether Gil -- whether anybody get ahead of me in class or not .
But when I 'm up in school it 's all different and I care as much a ever .
There 's such a lot of different Annes in me .
I sometimes think that be why I 'm such a troublesome person .
If I be just the one Anne it would be ever so much more comfortable , but then it would n't be half so interesting . ''
One June evening , when the orchard be pink blossom again , when the frog be sing silverly sweet in the marsh about the head of the Lake of Shining Waters , and the air be full of the savor of clover field and balsamic fir wood , Anne be sit by her gable window .
She have be study her lesson , but it have grow too dark to see the book , so she have fall into wide-eyed reverie , look out past the bough of the Snow Queen , once more bestarred with it tuft of blossom .
In all essential respect the little gable chamber be unchanged .
The wall be a white , the pincushion a hard , the chair a stiffly and yellowly upright a ever .
Yet the whole character of the room be alter .
It be full of a new vital , pulse personality that seem to pervade it and to be quite independent of schoolgirl book and dress and ribbon , and even of the cracked blue jug full of apple blossom on the table .
It be a if all the dream , sleep and wake , of it vivid occupant have take a visible although unmaterial form and have tapestried the bare room with splendid filmy tissue of rainbow and moonshine .
Presently Marilla come briskly in with some of Anne 's freshly iron school apron .
She hang them over a chair and sit down with a short sigh .
She have have one of her headache that afternoon , and although the pain have go she felt weak and `` tucker out , '' a she express it .
Anne look at her with eye limpid with sympathy .
`` I do truly wish I could have have the headache in your place , Marilla .
I would have endure it joyfully for your sake . ''
`` I guess you do your part in attend to the work and let me rest , '' say Marilla .
`` You seem to have get on fairly well and make few mistake than usual .
Of course it be n't exactly necessary to starch Matthew 's handkerchief !
And most people when they put a pie in the oven to warm up for dinner take it out and eat it when it get hot instead of leave it to be burn to a crisp .
But that do n't seem to be your way evidently . ''
Headaches always leave Marilla somewhat sarcastic .
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry , '' say Anne penitently .
`` I never think about that pie from the moment I put it in the oven till now , although I felt INSTINCTIVELY that there be something miss on the dinner table .
I be firmly resolve , when you leave me in charge this morning , not to imagine anything , but keep my thought on fact .
I do pretty well until I put the pie in , and then an irresistible temptation come to me to imagine I be an enchanted princess shut up in a lonely tower with a handsome knight rid to my rescue on a coal-black steed .
So that be how I come to forget the pie .
I do n't know I starch the handkerchief .
All the time I be iron I be try to think of a name for a new island Diana and I have discover up the brook .
It 's the most ravishing spot , Marilla .
There be two maple tree on it and the brook flow right around it .
At last it strike me that it would be splendid to call it Victoria Island because we find it on the Queen 's birthday .
Both Diana and I be very loyal .
But I 'm sorry about that pie and the handkerchief .
I want to be extra good today because it 's an anniversary .
Do you remember what happen this day last year , Marilla ? ''
`` No , I ca n't think of anything special . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , it be the day I come to Green Gables .
I shall never forget it .
It be the turn point in my life .
Of course it would n't seem so important to you .
I 've be here for a year and I 've be so happy .
Of course , I 've have my trouble , but one can live down trouble .
Are you sorry you keep me , Marilla ? ''
`` No , I ca n't say I 'm sorry , '' say Marilla , who sometimes wonder how she could have live before Anne come to Green Gables , `` no , not exactly sorry .
If you 've finish your lesson , Anne , I want you to run over and ask Mrs. Barry if she 'll lend me Diana 's apron pattern . ''
`` Oh -- it 's -- it 's too dark , '' cry Anne .
`` Too dark ?
Why , it 's only twilight .
And goodness know you 've go over often enough after dark . ''
`` I 'll go over early in the morning , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` I 'll get up at sunrise and go over , Marilla . ''
`` What have get into your head now , Anne Shirley ?
I want that pattern to cut out your new apron this evening .
Go at once and be smart too . ''
`` I 'll have to go around by the road , then , '' say Anne , take up her hat reluctantly .
`` Go by the road and waste half an hour !
I 'd like to catch you ! ''
`` I ca n't go through the Haunted Wood , Marilla , '' cry Anne desperately .
Marilla star .
`` The Haunted Wood !
Are you crazy ?
What under the canopy be the Haunted Wood ? ''
`` The spruce wood over the brook , '' say Anne in a whisper .
`` Fiddlesticks !
There be no such thing a a haunt wood anywhere .
Who have be tell you such stuff ? ''
`` Nobody , '' confess Anne .
`` Diana and I just imagine the wood be haunt .
All the place around here be so -- so -- COMMONPLACE .
We just get this up for our own amusement .
We begin it in April .
A haunt wood be so very romantic , Marilla .
We choose the spruce grove because it 's so gloomy .
Oh , we have imagine the most harrowing thing .
There 's a white lady walk along the brook just about this time of the night and wring her hand and utters wail cry .
She appear when there be to be a death in the family .
And the ghost of a little murdered child haunt the corner up by Idlewild ; it creep up behind you and lay it cold finger on your hand -- so .
Oh , Marilla , it give me a shudder to think of it .
And there 's a headless man stalk up and down the path and skeleton glower at you between the bough .
Oh , Marilla , I would n't go through the Haunted Wood after dark now for anything .
I 'd be sure that white thing would reach out from behind the tree and grab me . ''
`` Did ever anyone hear the like ! ''
ejaculate Marilla , who have listen in dumb amazement .
`` Anne Shirley , do you mean to tell me you believe all that wicked nonsense of your own imagination ? ''
`` Not believe EXACTLY , '' falter Anne .
`` At least , I do n't believe it in daylight .
But after dark , Marilla , it 's different .
That be when ghost walk . ''
`` There be no such thing a ghost , Anne . ''
`` Oh , but there be , Marilla , '' cry Anne eagerly .
`` I know people who have see them .
And they be respectable people .
Charlie Sloane say that his grandmother saw his grandfather driving home the cow one night after he 'd be bury for a year .
You know Charlie Sloane 's grandmother would n't tell a story for anything .
She 's a very religious woman .
And Mrs. Thomas 's father be pursue home one night by a lamb of fire with it head cut off hang by a strip of skin .
He say he know it be the spirit of his brother and that it be a warning he would die within nine day .
He do n't , but he die two year after , so you see it be really true .
And Ruby Gillis say -- '' `` Anne Shirley , '' interrupt Marilla firmly , `` I never want to hear you talk in this fashion again .
I 've have my doubt about that imagination of yours right along , and if this be go to be the outcome of it , I wo n't countenance any such doings .
You 'll go right over to Barry 's , and you 'll go through that spruce grove , just for a lesson and a warning to you .
And never let me hear a word out of your head about haunt wood again . ''
Anne might plead and cry a she like -- and do , for her terror be very real .
Her imagination have run away with her and she hold the spruce grove in mortal dread after nightfall .
But Marilla be inexorable .
She march the shrink ghost-seer down to the spring and order her to proceed straightaway over the bridge and into the dusky retreat of wail lady and headless specter beyond .
`` Oh , Marilla , how can you be so cruel ? ''
sob Anne .
`` What would you feel like if a white thing do snatch me up and carry me off ? ''
`` I 'll risk it , '' say Marilla unfeelingly .
`` You know I always mean what I say .
I 'll cure you of imagine ghost into place .
March , now . ''
Anne march .
That be , she stumble over the bridge and go shudder up the horrible dim path beyond .
Anne never forget that walk .
Bitterly do she repent the license she have give to her imagination .
The goblin of her fancy lurk in every shadow about her , reach out their cold , fleshless hand to grasp the terrified small girl who have call them into be .
A white strip of birch bark blow up from the hollow over the brown floor of the grove make her heart stand still .
The long-drawn wail of two old bough rub against each other bring out the perspiration in bead on her forehead .
The swoop of bat in the darkness over her be a the wing of unearthly creature .
When she reach Mr. William Bell 's field she flee across it a if pursue by an army of white thing , and arrive at the Barry kitchen door so out of breath that she could hardly gasp out her request for the apron pattern .
Diana be away so that she have no excuse to linger .
The dreadful return journey have to be face .
Anne go back over it with shut eye , prefer to take the risk of dash her brain out among the bough to that of see a white thing .
When she finally stumble over the log bridge she draw one long shiver breath of relief .
`` Well , so nothing caught you ? ''
say Marilla unsympathetically .
`` Oh , Mar -- Marilla , '' chatter Anne , `` I 'll b-b-be contt-tented with c-c-commonplace place after this . ''
CHAPTER XXI .
A New Departure in Flavorings `` Dear me , there be nothing but meeting and parting in this world , a Mrs. Lynde say , '' remark Anne plaintively , put her slate and book down on the kitchen table on the last day of June and wipe her red eye with a very damp handkerchief .
`` Was n't it fortunate , Marilla , that I take an extra handkerchief to school today ?
I have a presentiment that it would be need . ''
`` I never think you be so fond of Mr. Phillips that you 'd require two handkerchief to dry your tear just because he be go away , '' say Marilla .
`` I do n't think I be cry because I be really so very fond of him , '' reflect Anne .
`` I just cry because all the others do .
It be Ruby Gillis start it .
Ruby Gillis have always declare she hat Mr. Phillips , but just as soon a he get up to make his farewell speech she burst into tear .
Then all the girl begin to cry , one after the other .
I try to hold out , Marilla .
I try to remember the time Mr. Phillips make me sit with Gil -- with a , boy ; and the time he spell my name without an e on the blackboard ; and how he say I be the bad dunce he ever saw at geometry and laugh at my spelling ; and all the time he have be so horrid and sarcastic ; but somehow I could n't , Marilla , and I just have to cry too .
Jane Andrews have be talk for a month about how glad she 'd be when Mr. Phillips go away and she declare she 'd never shed a tear .
Well , she be bad than any of u and have to borrow a handkerchief from her brother -- of course the boy do n't cry -- because she have n't bring one of her own , not expect to need it .
Oh , Marilla , it be heartrending .
Mr. Phillips make such a beautiful farewell speech beginning , ` The time have come for u to part . '
It be very affect .
And he have tear in his eye too , Marilla .
Oh , I felt dreadfully sorry and remorseful for all the time I 'd talk in school and drawn picture of him on my slate and make fun of him and Prissy .
I can tell you I wish I 'd be a model pupil like Minnie Andrews .
She have n't anything on her conscience .
The girl cry all the way home from school .
Carrie Sloane keep say every few minute , ` The time have come for u to part , ' and that would start u off again whenever we be in any danger of cheer up .
I do feel dreadfully sad , Marilla .
But one ca n't feel quite in the depth of despair with two month ' vacation before them , can they , Marilla ?
And besides , we meet the new minister and his wife come from the station .
For all I be feel so bad about Mr. Phillips go away I could n't help take a little interest in a new minister , could I ?
His wife be very pretty .
Not exactly regally lovely , of course -- it would n't do , I suppose , for a minister to have a regally lovely wife , because it might set a bad example .
Mrs. Lynde say the minister 's wife over at Newbridge set a very bad example because she dress so fashionably .
Our new minister 's wife be dress in blue muslin with lovely puffed sleeve and a hat trim with rose .
Jane Andrews say she think puffed sleeve be too worldly for a minister 's wife , but I do n't make any such uncharitable remark , Marilla , because I know what it be to long for puffed sleeve .
Besides , she 's only be a minister 's wife for a little while , so one should make allowance , should n't they ?
They be go to board with Mrs. Lynde until the manse be ready . ''
If Marilla , in go down to Mrs. Lynde 's that evening , be actuate by any motive save her avow one of return the quilting frame she have borrow the precede winter , it be an amiable weakness share by most of the Avonlea people .
Many a thing Mrs. Lynde have lent , sometimes never expect to see it again , come home that night in charge of the borrower thereof .
A new minister , and moreover a minister with a wife , be a lawful object of curiosity in a quiet little country settlement where sensation be few and far between .
Old Mr. Bentley , the minister whom Anne have find lack in imagination , have be pastor of Avonlea for eighteen year .
He be a widower when he come , and a widower he remain , despite the fact that gossip regularly marry him to this , that , or the other one , every year of his sojourn .
In the preceding February he have resign his charge and depart amid the regret of his people , most of whom have the affection born of long intercourse for their good old minister in spite of his shortcoming a an orator .
Since then the Avonlea church have enjoy a variety of religious dissipation in listen to the many and various candidate and `` supply '' who come Sunday after Sunday to preach on trial .
These stand or fell by the judgment of the father and mother in Israel ; but a certain small , red-haired girl who sit meekly in the corner of the old Cuthbert pew also have her opinion about them and discuss the same in full with Matthew , Marilla always decline from principle to criticize minister in any shape or form .
`` I do n't think Mr. Smith would have do , Matthew '' be Anne 's final summing up .
`` Mrs. Lynde say his delivery be so poor , but I think his bad fault be just like Mr. Bentley 's -- he have no imagination .
And Mr. Terry have too much ; he let it run away with him just a I do mine in the matter of the Haunted Wood .
Besides , Mrs. Lynde say his theology be n't sound .
Mr. Gresham be a very good man and a very religious man , but he tell too many funny story and make the people laugh in church ; he be undignified , and you must have some dignity about a minister , must n't you , Matthew ?
I think Mr. Marshall be decidedly attractive ; but Mrs. Lynde say he be n't marry , or even engage , because she make special inquiry about him , and she say it would never do to have a young unmarried minister in Avonlea , because he might marry in the congregation and that would make trouble .
Mrs. Lynde be a very farseeing woman , be n't she , Matthew ?
I 'm very glad they 've call Mr. Allan .
I like him because his sermon be interesting and he pray a if he mean it and not just a if he do it because he be in the habit of it .
Mrs. Lynde say he be n't perfect , but she say she suppose we could n't expect a perfect minister for seven hundred and fifty dollar a year , and anyhow his theology be sound because she question him thoroughly on all the point of doctrine .
And she know his wife 's people and they be most respectable and the woman be all good housekeeper .
Mrs. Lynde say that sound doctrine in the man and good housekeeping in the woman make an ideal combination for a minister 's family . ''
The new minister and his wife be a young , pleasant-faced couple , still on their honeymoon , and full of all good and beautiful enthusiasm for their chosen lifework .
Avonlea open it heart to them from the start .
Old and young like the frank , cheerful young man with his high ideal , and the bright , gentle little lady who assume the mistress-ship of the manse .
With Mrs. Allan Anne fell promptly and wholeheartedly in love .
She have discover another kindred spirit .
`` Mrs. Allan be perfectly lovely , '' she announce one Sunday afternoon .
`` She 's take our class and she 's a splendid teacher .
She say right away she do n't think it be fair for the teacher to ask all the question , and you know , Marilla , that be exactly what I 've always think .
She say we could ask her any question we like and I ask ever so many .
I 'm good at ask question , Marilla . ''
`` I believe you '' be Marilla 's emphatic comment .
`` Nobody else ask any except Ruby Gillis , and she ask if there be to be a Sunday-school picnic this summer .
I do n't think that be a very proper question to ask because it have n't any connection with the lesson -- the lesson be about Daniel in the lion ' den -- but Mrs. Allan just smile and say she think there would be .
Mrs. Allan have a lovely smile ; she have such EXQUISITE dimple in her cheek .
I wish I have dimple in my cheek , Marilla .
I 'm not half so skinny a I be when I come here , but I have no dimple yet .
If I have perhaps I could influence people for good .
Mrs. Allan say we ought always to try to influence other people for good .
She talk so nice about everything .
I never know before that religion be such a cheerful thing .
I always think it be kind of melancholy , but Mrs. Allan 's be n't , and I 'd like to be a Christian if I could be one like her .
I would n't want to be one like Mr . Superintendent Bell . ''
`` It 's very naughty of you to speak so about Mr. Bell , '' say Marilla severely .
`` Mr. Bell be a real good man . ''
`` Oh , of course he 's good , '' agree Anne , `` but he do n't seem to get any comfort out of it .
If I could be good I 'd dance and sing all day because I be glad of it .
I suppose Mrs. Allan be too old to dance and sing and of course it would n't be dignify in a minister 's wife .
But I can just feel she 's glad she 's a Christian and that she 'd be one even if she could get to heaven without it . ''
`` I suppose we must have Mr. and Mrs. Allan up to tea someday soon , '' say Marilla reflectively .
`` They 've be most everywhere but here .
Let me see .
Next Wednesday would be a good time to have them .
But do n't say a word to Matthew about it , for if he know they be come he 'd find some excuse to be away that day .
He 'd get so use to Mr. Bentley he do n't mind him , but he 's go to find it hard to get acquaint with a new minister , and a new minister 's wife will frighten him to death . ''
`` I 'll be as secret a the dead , '' assure Anne .
`` But oh , Marilla , will you let me make a cake for the occasion ?
I 'd love to do something for Mrs. Allan , and you know I can make a pretty good cake by this time . ''
`` You can make a layer cake , '' promise Marilla .
Monday and Tuesday great preparation go on at Green Gables .
Having the minister and his wife to tea be a serious and important undertaking , and Marilla be determine not to be eclipse by any of the Avonlea housekeeper .
Anne be wild with excitement and delight .
She talk it all over with Diana Tuesday night in the twilight , a they sit on the big red stone by the Dryad 's Bubble and make rainbow in the water with little twig dip in fir balsam .
`` Everything be ready , Diana , except my cake which I 'm to make in the morning , and the baking-powder biscuit which Marilla will make just before teatime .
I assure you , Diana , that Marilla and I have have a busy two day of it .
It 's such a responsibility have a minister 's family to tea .
I never go through such an experience before .
You should just see our pantry .
It 's a sight to behold .
We 're go to have jelly chicken and cold tongue .
We 're to have two kind of jelly , red and yellow , and whip cream and lemon pie , and cherry pie , and three kind of cooky , and fruit cake , and Marilla 's famous yellow plum preserve that she keep especially for minister , and pound cake and layer cake , and biscuit a aforesaid ; and new bread and old both , in case the minister be dyspeptic and ca n't eat new .
Mrs. Lynde say minister be dyspeptic , but I do n't think Mr. Allan have be a minister long enough for it to have have a bad effect on him .
I just grow cold when I think of my layer cake .
Oh , Diana , what if it should n't be good !
I dream last night that I be chase all around by a fearful goblin with a big layer cake for a head . ''
`` It 'll be good , all right , '' assure Diana , who be a very comfortable sort of friend .
`` I 'm sure that piece of the one you make that we have for lunch in Idlewild two week ago be perfectly elegant . ''
`` Yes ; but cake have such a terrible habit of turn out bad just when you especially want them to be good , '' sigh Anne , set a particularly well-balsamed twig afloat .
`` However , I suppose I shall just have to trust to Providence and be careful to put in the flour .
Oh , look , Diana , what a lovely rainbow !
Do you suppose the dryad will come out after we go away and take it for a scarf ? ''
`` You know there be no such thing a a dryad , '' say Diana .
Diana 's mother have find out about the Haunted Wood and have be decidedly angry over it .
As a result Diana have abstain from any further imitative flight of imagination and do not think it prudent to cultivate a spirit of belief even in harmless dryad .
`` But it 's so easy to imagine there be , '' say Anne .
`` Every night before I go to bed , I look out of my window and wonder if the dryad be really sit here , comb her lock with the spring for a mirror .
Sometimes I look for her footprint in the dew in the morning .
Oh , Diana , do n't give up your faith in the dryad ! ''
Wednesday morning come .
Anne get up at sunrise because she be too excited to sleep .
She have catch a severe cold in the head by reason of her dabbling in the spring on the precede evening ; but nothing short of absolute pneumonia could have quench her interest in culinary matter that morning .
After breakfast she proceed to make her cake .
When she finally shut the oven door upon it she draw a long breath .
`` I 'm sure I have n't forget anything this time , Marilla .
But do you think it will rise ?
Just suppose perhaps the baking powder be n't good ?
I use it out of the new can .
And Mrs. Lynde say you can never be sure of get good baking powder nowadays when everything be so adulterated .
Mrs. Lynde say the Government ought to take the matter up , but she say we 'll never see the day when a Tory Government will do it .
Marilla , what if that cake do n't rise ? ''
`` We 'll have plenty without it '' be Marilla 's unimpassioned way of look at the subject .
The cake do rise , however , and come out of the oven a light and feathery a golden foam .
Anne , flush with delight , clap it together with layer of ruby jelly and , in imagination , saw Mrs. Allan eat it and possibly ask for another piece !
`` You 'll be use the best tea set , of course , Marilla , '' she say .
`` Can I fix the table with fern and wild rose ? ''
`` I think that 's all nonsense , '' sniff Marilla .
`` In my opinion it 's the eatable that matter and not flummery decoration . ''
`` Mrs. Barry have HER table decorate , '' say Anne , who be not entirely guiltless of the wisdom of the serpent , `` and the minister pay her an elegant compliment .
He say it be a feast for the eye as well a the palate . ''
`` Well , do a you like , '' say Marilla , who be quite determine not to be surpass by Mrs. Barry or anybody else .
`` Only mind you leave enough room for the dish and the food . ''
Anne lay herself out to decorate in a manner and after a fashion that should leave Mrs. Barry 's nowhere .
Having abundance of rose and fern and a very artistic taste of her own , she make that tea table such a thing of beauty that when the minister and his wife sit down to it they exclaim in chorus over it loveliness .
`` It 's Anne 's doings , '' say Marilla , grimly just ; and Anne felt that Mrs. Allan 's approve smile be almost too much happiness for this world .
Matthew be there , have be inveigle into the party only goodness and Anne know how .
He have be in such a state of shyness and nervousness that Marilla have give him up in despair , but Anne take him in hand so successfully that he now sit at the table in his best clothes and white collar and talk to the minister not uninterestingly .
He never say a word to Mrs. Allan , but that perhaps be not to be expect .
All go merry a a marriage bell until Anne 's layer cake be pass .
Mrs. Allan , have already be help to a bewildering variety , decline it .
But Marilla , see the disappointment on Anne 's face , say smilingly : `` Oh , you must take a piece of this , Mrs. Allan .
Anne make it on purpose for you . ''
`` In that case I must sample it , '' laugh Mrs. Allan , help herself to a plump triangle , a do also the minister and Marilla .
Mrs. Allan take a mouthful of hers and a most peculiar expression cross her face ; not a word do she say , however , but steadily eat away at it .
Marilla saw the expression and hasten to taste the cake .
`` Anne Shirley ! ''
she exclaim , `` what on earth do you put into that cake ? ''
`` Nothing but what the recipe say , Marilla , '' cry Anne with a look of anguish .
`` Oh , be n't it all right ? ''
`` All right !
It 's simply horrible .
Mr. Allan , do n't try to eat it .
Anne , taste it yourself .
What flavor do you use ? ''
`` Vanilla , '' say Anne , her face scarlet with mortification after taste the cake .
`` Only vanilla .
Oh , Marilla , it must have be the bake powder .
I have my suspicion of that bak -- '' `` Baking powder fiddlestick !
Go and bring me the bottle of vanilla you use . ''
Anne flee to the pantry and return with a small bottle partially fill with a brown liquid and label yellowly , `` Best Vanilla . ''
Marilla take it , uncork it , smell it .
`` Mercy on u , Anne , you 've flavor that cake with ANODYNE LINIMENT .
I break the liniment bottle last week and pour what be leave into an old empty vanilla bottle .
I suppose it 's partly my fault -- I should have warn you -- but for pity 's sake why could n't you have smell it ? ''
Anne dissolve into tear under this double disgrace .
`` I could n't -- I have such a cold ! ''
and with this she fairly flee to the gable chamber , where she cast herself on the bed and wept a one who refuse to be comfort .
Presently a light step sound on the stair and somebody enter the room .
`` Oh , Marilla , '' sob Anne , without look up , `` I 'm disgraced forever .
I shall never be able to live this down .
It will get out -- thing always do get out in Avonlea .
Diana will ask me how my cake turn out and I shall have to tell her the truth .
I shall always be point at a the girl who flavor a cake with anodyne liniment .
Gil -- the boy in school will never get over laughing at it .
Oh , Marilla , if you have a spark of Christian pity do n't tell me that I must go down and wash the dish after this .
I 'll wash them when the minister and his wife be go , but I can not ever look Mrs. Allan in the face again .
Perhaps she 'll think I try to poison her .
Mrs. Lynde say she know an orphan girl who try to poison her benefactor .
But the liniment be n't poisonous .
It 's mean to be take internally -- although not in cake .
Wo n't you tell Mrs. Allan so , Marilla ? ''
`` Suppose you jump up and tell her so yourself , '' say a merry voice .
Anne fly up , to find Mrs. Allan stand by her bed , survey her with laughing eye .
`` My dear little girl , you must n't cry like this , '' she say , genuinely disturb by Anne 's tragic face .
`` Why , it 's all just a funny mistake that anybody might make . ''
`` Oh , no , it take me to make such a mistake , '' say Anne forlornly .
`` And I want to have that cake so nice for you , Mrs. Allan . ''
`` Yes , I know , dear .
And I assure you I appreciate your kindness and thoughtfulness just as much a if it have turn out all right .
Now , you must n't cry any more , but come down with me and show me your flower garden .
Miss Cuthbert tell me you have a little plot all your own .
I want to see it , for I 'm very much interested in flower . ''
Anne permit herself to be lead down and comfort , reflect that it be really providential that Mrs. Allan be a kindred spirit .
Nothing more be say about the liniment cake , and when the guest go away Anne find that she have enjoy the even more than could have be expect , consider that terrible incident .
Nevertheless , she sigh deeply .
`` Marilla , be n't it nice to think that tomorrow be a new day with no mistake in it yet ? ''
`` I 'll warrant you 'll make plenty in it , '' say Marilla .
`` I never saw your beat for make mistake , Anne . ''
`` Yes , and well I know it , '' admit Anne mournfully .
`` But have you ever notice one encouraging thing about me , Marilla ?
I never make the same mistake twice . ''
`` I do n't know a that 's much benefit when you 're always make new one . ''
`` Oh , do n't you see , Marilla ?
There must be a limit to the mistake one person can make , and when I get to the end of them , then I 'll be through with them .
That 's a very comforting thought . ''
`` Well , you 'd better go and give that cake to the pig , '' say Marilla .
`` It be n't fit for any human to eat , not even Jerry Boute . ''
CHAPTER XXII .
Anne be Invited Out to Tea `` And what be your eye pop out of your head about .
Now ? ''
ask Marilla , when Anne have just come in from a run to the post office .
`` Have you discover another kindred spirit ? ''
Excitement hung around Anne like a garment , shone in her eye , kindle in every feature .
She have come dance up the lane , like a wind-blown sprite , through the mellow sunshine and lazy shadow of the August evening .
`` No , Marilla , but oh , what do you think ?
I be invite to tea at the manse tomorrow afternoon !
Mrs. Allan leave the letter for me at the post office .
Just look at it , Marilla .
` Miss Anne Shirley , Green Gables . '
That be the first time I be ever call ` Miss. ' Such a thrill a it give me !
I shall cherish it forever among my choice treasure . ''
`` Mrs. Allan tell me she mean to have all the member of her Sunday-school class to tea in turn , '' say Marilla , regard the wonderful event very coolly .
`` You need n't get in such a fever over it .
Do learn to take thing calmly , child . ''
For Anne to take thing calmly would have be to change her nature .
All `` spirit and fire and dew , '' a she be , the pleasure and pain of life come to her with trebled intensity .
Marilla felt this and be vaguely troubled over it , realize that the ups and down of existence would probably bear hardly on this impulsive soul and not sufficiently understand that the equally great capacity for delight might more than compensate .
Therefore Marilla conceive it to be her duty to drill Anne into a tranquil uniformity of disposition a impossible and alien to her a to a dance sunbeam in one of the brook shallow .
She do not make much headway , a she sorrowfully admit to herself .
The downfall of some dear hope or plan plunge Anne into `` deep of affliction . ''
The fulfillment thereof exalt her to dizzy realm of delight .
Marilla have almost begin to despair of ever fashion this waif of the world into her model little girl of demure manner and prim deportment .
Neither would she have believe that she really like Anne much good a she be .
Anne go to bed that night speechless with misery because Matthew have say the wind be round northeast and he fear it would be a rainy day tomorrow .
The rustle of the poplar leaf about the house worry her , it sound so like patter raindrop , and the full , faraway roar of the gulf , to which she listen delightedly at other time , love it strange , sonorous , haunt rhythm , now seem like a prophecy of storm and disaster to a small maiden who particularly want a fine day .
Anne think that the morning would never come .
But all thing have an end , even night before the day on which you be invite to take tea at the manse .
The morning , in spite of Matthew 's prediction , be fine and Anne 's spirit soar to their high .
`` Oh , Marilla , there be something in me today that make me just love everybody I see , '' she exclaim a she wash the breakfast dish .
`` You do n't know how good I feel !
Would n't it be nice if it could last ?
I believe I could be a model child if I be just invite out to tea every day .
But oh , Marilla , it 's a solemn occasion too .
I feel so anxious .
What if I should n't behave properly ?
You know I never have tea at a manse before , and I 'm not sure that I know all the rule of etiquette , although I 've be study the rule give in the Etiquette Department of the Family Herald ever since I come here .
I 'm so afraid I 'll do something silly or forget to do something I should do .
Would it be good manner to take a second help of anything if you want to VERY much ? ''
`` The trouble with you , Anne , be that you 're think too much about yourself .
You should just think of Mrs. Allan and what would be nicest and most agreeable to her , '' say Marilla , hit for once in her life on a very sound and pithy piece of advice .
Anne instantly realize this .
`` You be right , Marilla .
I 'll try not to think about myself at all . ''
Anne evidently get through her visit without any serious breach of `` etiquette , '' for she come home through the twilight , under a great , high-sprung sky glory over with trail of saffron and rosy cloud , in a beatified state of mind and tell Marilla all about it happily , sit on the big red-sandstone slab at the kitchen door with her tired curly head in Marilla 's gingham lap .
A cool wind be blow down over the long harvest field from the rim of firry western hill and whistle through the poplar .
One clear star hung over the orchard and the firefly be flit over in Lover 's Lane , in and out among the fern and rustle bough .
Anne watch them a she talk and somehow felt that wind and star and firefly be all tangle up together into something unutterably sweet and enchant .
`` Oh , Marilla , I 've have a most FASCINATING time .
I feel that I have not live in vain and I shall always feel like that even if I should never be invite to tea at a manse again .
When I get there Mrs. Allan meet me at the door .
She be dress in the sweet dress of pale-pink organdy , with dozen of frill and elbow sleeve , and she look just like a seraph .
I really think I 'd like to be a minister 's wife when I grow up , Marilla .
A minister might n't mind my red hair because he would n't be think of such worldly thing .
But then of course one would have to be naturally good and I 'll never be that , so I suppose there 's no use in think about it .
Some people be naturally good , you know , and others be not .
I 'm one of the others .
Mrs. Lynde say I 'm full of original sin .
No matter how hard I try to be good I can never make such a success of it a those who be naturally good .
It 's a good deal like geometry , I expect .
But do n't you think the try so hard ought to count for something ?
Mrs. Allan be one of the naturally good people .
I love her passionately .
You know there be some people , like Matthew and Mrs. Allan that you can love right off without any trouble .
And there be others , like Mrs. Lynde , that you have to try very hard to love .
You know you OUGHT to love them because they know so much and be such active worker in the church , but you have to keep remind yourself of it all the time or else you forget .
There be another little girl at the manse to tea , from the White Sands Sunday school .
Her name be Laurette Bradley , and she be a very nice little girl .
Not exactly a kindred spirit , you know , but still very nice .
We have an elegant tea , and I think I keep all the rule of etiquette pretty well .
After tea Mrs. Allan play and sang and she get Lauretta and me to sing too .
Mrs. Allan say I have a good voice and she say I must sing in the Sunday-school choir after this .
You ca n't think how I be thrill at the mere thought .
I 've long so to sing in the Sunday-school choir , a Diana do , but I fear it be an honor I could never aspire to .
Lauretta have to go home early because there be a big concert in the White Sands Hotel tonight and her sister be to recite at it .
Lauretta say that the Americans at the hotel give a concert every fortnight in aid of the Charlottetown hospital , and they ask lot of the White Sands people to recite .
Lauretta say she expect to be ask herself someday .
I just gaze at her in awe .
After she have go Mrs. Allan and I have a heart-to-heart talk .
I tell her everything -- about Mrs. Thomas and the twin and Katie Maurice and Violetta and come to Green Gables and my trouble over geometry .
And would you believe it , Marilla ?
Mrs. Allan tell me she be a dunce at geometry too .
You do n't know how that encourage me .
Mrs. Lynde come to the manse just before I leave , and what do you think , Marilla ?
The trustee have hire a new teacher and it 's a lady .
Her name be Miss Muriel Stacy .
Is n't that a romantic name ?
Mrs. Lynde say they 've never have a female teacher in Avonlea before and she think it be a dangerous innovation .
But I think it will be splendid to have a lady teacher , and I really do n't see how I 'm go to live through the two week before school begin .
I 'm so impatient to see her . ''
CHAPTER XXIII .
Anne Comes to Grief in an Affair of Honor Anne have to live through more than two week , a it happen .
Almost a month have elapse since the liniment cake episode , it be high time for her to get into fresh trouble of some sort , little mistake , such a absentmindedly empty a pan of skim milk into a basket of yarn ball in the pantry instead of into the pig ' bucket , and walk clean over the edge of the log bridge into the brook while wrap in imaginative reverie , not really be worth counting .
A week after the tea at the manse Diana Barry give a party .
`` Small and select , '' Anne assure Marilla .
`` Just the girl in our class . ''
They have a very good time and nothing untoward happen until after tea , when they find themselves in the Barry garden , a little tired of all their game and ripe for any enticing form of mischief which might present itself .
This presently take the form of `` dare . ''
Daring be the fashionable amusement among the Avonlea small fry just then .
It have begin among the boy , but soon spread to the girl , and all the silly thing that be do in Avonlea that summer because the doer thereof be `` dare '' to do them would fill a book by themselves .
First of all Carrie Sloane dare Ruby Gillis to climb to a certain point in the huge old willow tree before the front door ; which Ruby Gillis , albeit in mortal dread of the fat green caterpillar with which say tree be infest and with the fear of her mother before her eye if she should tear her new muslin dress , nimbly do , to the discomfiture of the aforesaid Carrie Sloane .
Then Josie Pye dare Jane Andrews to hop on her leave leg around the garden without stop once or put her right foot to the ground ; which Jane Andrews gamely try to do , but give out at the third corner and have to confess herself defeat .
Josie 's triumph be rather more pronounced than good taste permit , Anne Shirley dare her to walk along the top of the board fence which bound the garden to the east .
Now , to `` walk '' board fence require more skill and steadiness of head and heel than one might suppose who have never try it .
But Josie Pye , if deficient in some quality that make for popularity , have at least a natural and inborn gift , duly cultivate , for walk board fence .
Josie walk the Barry fence with an airy unconcern which seem to imply that a little thing like that be n't worth a `` dare . ''
Reluctant admiration greet her exploit , for most of the other girl could appreciate it , have suffer many thing themselves in their effort to walk fence .
Josie descend from her perch , flush with victory , and dart a defiant glance at Anne .
Anne toss her red braid .
`` I do n't think it 's such a very wonderful thing to walk a little , low , board fence , '' she say .
`` I know a girl in Marysville who could walk the ridgepole of a roof . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' say Josie flatly .
`` I do n't believe anybody could walk a ridgepole .
YOU could n't , anyhow . ''
`` Could n't I ? ''
cry Anne rashly .
`` Then I dare you to do it , '' say Josie defiantly .
`` I dare you to climb up there and walk the ridgepole of Mr. Barry 's kitchen roof . ''
Anne turn pale , but there be clearly only one thing to be do .
She walk toward the house , where a ladder be lean against the kitchen roof .
All the fifth-class girl say , `` Oh ! ''
partly in excitement , partly in dismay .
`` Do n't you do it , Anne , '' entreat Diana .
`` You 'll fall off and be kill .
Never mind Josie Pye .
It be n't fair to dare anybody to do anything so dangerous . ''
`` I must do it .
My honor be at stake , '' say Anne solemnly .
`` I shall walk that ridgepole , Diana , or perish in the attempt .
If I be kill you be to have my pearl bead ring . ''
Anne climb the ladder amid breathless silence , gain the ridgepole , balance herself uprightly on that precarious footing , and start to walk along it , dizzily conscious that she be uncomfortably high up in the world and that walk ridgepole be not a thing in which your imagination help you out much .
Nevertheless , she manage to take several step before the catastrophe come .
Then she sway , lose her balance , stumble , stagger , and fell , slide down over the sun-baked roof and crash off it through the tangle of Virginia creeper beneath -- all before the dismayed circle below could give a simultaneous , terrified shriek .
If Anne have tumble off the roof on the side up which she have ascend Diana would probably have fall heir to the pearl bead ring then and there .
Fortunately she fell on the other side , where the roof extend down over the porch so nearly to the ground that a fall therefrom be a much less serious thing .
Nevertheless , when Diana and the other girl have rush frantically around the house -- except Ruby Gillis , who remain a if root to the ground and go into hysteric -- they find Anne lie all white and limp among the wreck and ruin of the Virginia creeper .
`` Anne , be you kill ? ''
shriek Diana , throw herself on her knee beside her friend .
`` Oh , Anne , dear Anne , speak just one word to me and tell me if you 're kill . ''
To the immense relief of all the girl , and especially of Josie Pye , who , in spite of lack of imagination , have be seize with horrible vision of a future brand a the girl who be the cause of Anne Shirley 's early and tragic death , Anne sit dizzily up and answer uncertainly : `` No , Diana , I be not kill , but I think I be render unconscious . ''
`` Where ? ''
sob Carrie Sloane .
`` Oh , where , Anne ? ''
Before Anne could answer Mrs. Barry appear on the scene .
At sight of her Anne try to scramble to her foot , but sink back again with a sharp little cry of pain .
`` What 's the matter ?
Where have you hurt yourself ? ''
demand Mrs. Barry .
`` My ankle , '' gasp Anne .
`` Oh , Diana , please find your father and ask him to take me home .
I know I can never walk there .
And I 'm sure I could n't hop so far on one foot when Jane could n't even hop around the garden . ''
Marilla be out in the orchard pick a panful of summer apple when she saw Mr. Barry come over the log bridge and up the slope , with Mrs. Barry beside him and a whole procession of little girl trail after him .
In his arm he carry Anne , whose head lay limply against his shoulder .
At that moment Marilla have a revelation .
In the sudden stab of fear that pierce her very heart she realize what Anne have come to mean to her .
She would have admit that she like Anne -- nay , that she be very fond of Anne .
But now she know a she hurry wildly down the slope that Anne be dearer to her than anything else on earth .
`` Mr. Barry , what have happen to her ? ''
she gasp , more white and shake than the self-contained , sensible Marilla have be for many year .
Anne herself answer , lift her head .
`` Do n't be very frightened , Marilla .
I be walk the ridgepole and I fell off .
I expect I have sprain my ankle .
But , Marilla , I might have break my neck .
Let u look on the bright side of thing . ''
`` I might have know you 'd go and do something of the sort when I let you go to that party , '' say Marilla , sharp and shrewish in her very relief .
`` Bring her in here , Mr. Barry , and lay her on the sofa .
Mercy me , the child have go and faint ! ''
It be quite true .
Overcome by the pain of her injury , Anne have one more of her wish grant to her .
She have faint dead away .
Matthew , hastily summon from the harvest field , be straightway dispatch for the doctor , who in due time come , to discover that the injury be more serious than they have suppose .
Anne 's ankle be break .
That night , when Marilla go up to the east gable , where a white-faced girl be lie , a plaintive voice greet her from the bed .
`` Are n't you very sorry for me , Marilla ? ''
`` It be your own fault , '' say Marilla , twitch down the blind and light a lamp .
`` And that be just why you should be sorry for me , '' say Anne , `` because the thought that it be all my own fault be what make it so hard .
If I could blame it on anybody I would feel so much good .
But what would you have do , Marilla , if you have be dare to walk a ridgepole ? ''
`` I 'd have stay on good firm ground and let them dare away .
Such absurdity ! ''
say Marilla .
Anne sigh .
`` But you have such strength of mind , Marilla .
I have n't .
I just felt that I could n't bear Josie Pye 's scorn .
She would have crow over me all my life .
And I think I have be punish so much that you need n't be very cross with me , Marilla .
It 's not a bit nice to faint , after all .
And the doctor hurt me dreadfully when he be set my ankle .
I wo n't be able to go around for six or seven week and I 'll miss the new lady teacher .
She wo n't be new any more by the time I 'm able to go to school .
And Gil -- everybody will get ahead of me in class .
Oh , I be an afflicted mortal .
But I 'll try to bear it all bravely if only you wo n't be cross with me , Marilla . ''
`` There , there , I 'm not cross , '' say Marilla .
`` You 're an unlucky child , there 's no doubt about that ; but a you say , you 'll have the suffering of it .
Here now , try and eat some supper . ''
`` Is n't it fortunate I 've get such an imagination ? ''
say Anne .
`` It will help me through splendidly , I expect .
What do people who have n't any imagination do when they break their bone , do you suppose , Marilla ? ''
Anne have good reason to bless her imagination many a time and oft during the tedious seven week that follow .
But she be not solely dependent on it .
She have many visitor and not a day pass without one or more of the schoolgirl drop in to bring her flower and book and tell her all the happening in the juvenile world of Avonlea .
`` Everybody have be so good and kind , Marilla , '' sigh Anne happily , on the day when she could first limp across the floor .
`` It be n't very pleasant to be lay up ; but there be a bright side to it , Marilla .
You find out how many friend you have .
Why , even Superintendent Bell come to see me , and he 's really a very fine man .
Not a kindred spirit , of course ; but still I like him and I 'm awfully sorry I ever criticize his prayer .
I believe now he really do mean them , only he have get into the habit of say them a if he do n't .
He could get over that if he 'd take a little trouble .
I give him a good broad hint .
I tell him how hard I try to make my own little private prayer interest .
He tell me all about the time he break his ankle when he be a boy .
It do seem so strange to think of Superintendent Bell ever be a boy .
Even my imagination have it limit , for I ca n't imagine THAT .
When I try to imagine him a a boy I see him with gray whisker and spectacle , just a he look in Sunday school , only small .
Now , it 's so easy to imagine Mrs. Allan a a little girl .
Mrs. Allan have be to see me fourteen time .
Is n't that something to be proud of , Marilla ?
When a minister 's wife have so many claim on her time !
She be such a cheerful person to have visit you , too .
She never tell you it 's your own fault and she hop you 'll be a good girl on account of it .
Mrs. Lynde always tell me that when she come to see me ; and she say it in a kind of way that make me feel she might hope I 'd be a good girl but do n't really believe I would .
Even Josie Pye come to see me .
I receive her as politely a I could , because I think she be sorry she dare me to walk a ridgepole .
If I have be kill she would have to carry a dark burden of remorse all her life .
Diana have be a faithful friend .
She 's be over every day to cheer my lonely pillow .
But oh , I shall be so glad when I can go to school for I 've hear such exciting thing about the new teacher .
The girl all think she be perfectly sweet .
Diana say she have the lovely fair curly hair and such fascinating eye .
She dress beautifully , and her sleeve puff be big than anybody else 's in Avonlea .
Every other Friday afternoon she have recitation and everybody have to say a piece or take part in a dialogue .
Oh , it 's just glorious to think of it .
Josie Pye say she hat it but that be just because Josie have so little imagination .
Diana and Ruby Gillis and Jane Andrews be prepare a dialogue , call ' A Morning Visit , ' for next Friday .
And the Friday afternoon they do n't have recitation Miss Stacy take them all to the wood for a ` field ' day and they study fern and flower and bird .
And they have physical culture exercise every morning and evening .
Mrs. Lynde say she never heard of such going on and it all come of have a lady teacher .
But I think it must be splendid and I believe I shall find that Miss Stacy be a kindred spirit . ''
`` There 's one thing plain to be see , Anne , '' say Marilla , `` and that be that your fall off the Barry roof have n't injure your tongue at all . ''
CHAPTER XXIV .
Miss Stacy and Her Pupils Get Up a Concert It be October again when Anne be ready to go back to school -- a glorious October , all red and gold , with mellow morning when the valley be fill with delicate mist a if the spirit of autumn have pour them in for the sun to drain -- amethyst , pearl , silver , rise , and smoke-blue .
The dew be so heavy that the field glisten like cloth of silver and there be such heap of rustle leaf in the hollow of many-stemmed wood to run crisply through .
The Birch Path be a canopy of yellow and the fern be sear and brown all along it .
There be a tang in the very air that inspire the heart of small maiden trip , unlike snail , swiftly and willingly to school ; and it WAS jolly to be back again at the little brown desk beside Diana , with Ruby Gillis nod across the aisle and Carrie Sloane send up note and Julia Bell pass a `` chew '' of gum down from the back seat .
Anne draw a long breath of happiness a she sharpen her pencil and arrange her picture card in her desk .
Life be certainly very interesting .
In the new teacher she find another true and helpful friend .
Miss Stacy be a bright , sympathetic young woman with the happy gift of win and hold the affection of her pupil and bring out the best that be in them mentally and morally .
Anne expand like a flower under this wholesome influence and carry home to the admire Matthew and the critical Marilla glow account of schoolwork and aim .
`` I love Miss Stacy with my whole heart , Marilla .
She be so ladylike and she have such a sweet voice .
When she pronounce my name I feel INSTINCTIVELY that she 's spell it with an E .
We have recitation this afternoon .
I just wish you could have be there to hear me recite ` Mary , Queen of Scots . '
I just put my whole soul into it .
Ruby Gillis tell me come home that the way I say the line , ` Now for my father 's arm , ' she say , ` my woman 's heart farewell , ' just make her blood run cold . ''
`` Well now , you might recite it for me some of these day , out in the barn , '' suggest Matthew .
`` Of course I will , '' say Anne meditatively , `` but I wo n't be able to do it so well , I know .
It wo n't be so exciting a it be when you have a whole schoolful before you hang breathlessly on your word .
I know I wo n't be able to make your blood run cold . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde say it make HER blood run cold to see the boy climb to the very top of those big tree on Bell 's hill after crow ' nest last Friday , '' say Marilla .
`` I wonder at Miss Stacy for encourage it . ''
`` But we want a crow 's nest for nature study , '' explain Anne .
`` That be on our field afternoon .
Field afternoon be splendid , Marilla .
And Miss Stacy explain everything so beautifully .
We have to write composition on our field afternoon and I write the best one . ''
`` It 's very vain of you to say so then .
You 'd better let your teacher say it . ''
`` But she DID say it , Marilla .
And indeed I 'm not vain about it .
How can I be , when I 'm such a dunce at geometry ?
Although I 'm really begin to see through it a little , too .
Miss Stacy make it so clear .
Still , I 'll never be good at it and I assure you it be a humbling reflection .
But I love write composition .
Mostly Miss Stacy let u choose our own subject ; but next week we be to write a composition on some remarkable person .
It 's hard to choose among so many remarkable people who have live .
Must n't it be splendid to be remarkable and have composition write about you after you 're dead ?
Oh , I would dearly love to be remarkable .
I think when I grow up I 'll be a trained nurse and go with the Red Crosses to the field of battle a a messenger of mercy .
That be , if I do n't go out a a foreign missionary .
That would be very romantic , but one would have to be very good to be a missionary , and that would be a stumbling block .
We have physical culture exercise every day , too .
They make you graceful and promote digestion . ''
`` Promote fiddlestick ! ''
say Marilla , who honestly think it be all nonsense .
But all the field afternoon and recitation Fridays and physical culture contortion pal before a project which Miss Stacy bring forward in November .
This be that the scholar of Avonlea school should get up a concert and hold it in the hall on Christmas Night , for the laudable purpose of help to pay for a schoolhouse flag .
The pupil one and all take graciously to this plan , the preparation for a program be begin at once .
And of all the excited performers-elect none be so excited a Anne Shirley , who throw herself into the undertaking heart and soul , hamper a she be by Marilla 's disapproval .
Marilla think it all rank foolishness .
`` It 's just fill your head up with nonsense and take time that ought to be put on your lesson , '' she grumble .
`` I do n't approve of child 's get up concert and race about to practice .
It make them vain and forward and fond of gad . ''
`` But think of the worthy object , '' plead Anne .
`` A flag will cultivate a spirit of patriotism , Marilla . ''
`` Fudge !
There 's precious little patriotism in the thought of any of you .
All you want be a good time . ''
`` Well , when you can combine patriotism and fun , be n't it all right ?
Of course it 's real nice to be get up a concert .
We 're go to have six chorus and Diana be to sing a solo .
I 'm in two dialogue -- ` The Society for the Suppression of Gossip ' and ` The Fairy Queen . '
The boy be go to have a dialogue too .
And I 'm to have two recitation , Marilla .
I just tremble when I think of it , but it 's a nice thrilly kind of tremble .
And we 're to have a tableau at the last -- ` Faith , Hope and Charity . '
Diana and Ruby and I be to be in it , all drape in white with flow hair .
I 'm to be Hope , with my hand clasp -- so -- and my eye uplift .
I 'm go to practice my recitation in the garret .
Do n't be alarm if you hear me groan .
I have to groan heartrendingly in one of them , and it 's really hard to get up a good artistic groan , Marilla .
Josie Pye be sulky because she do n't get the part she want in the dialogue .
She want to be the fairy queen .
That would have be ridiculous , for who ever heard of a fairy queen as fat a Josie ?
Fairy queen must be slender .
Jane Andrews be to be the queen and I be to be one of her maid of honor .
Josie say she think a red-haired fairy be just as ridiculous a a fat one , but I do not let myself mind what Josie say .
I 'm to have a wreath of white rose on my hair and Ruby Gillis be go to lend me her slipper because I have n't any of my own .
It 's necessary for fairy to have slipper , you know .
You could n't imagine a fairy wear boot , could you ?
Especially with copper toe ?
We be go to decorate the hall with creep spruce and fir motto with pink tissue-paper rose in them .
And we be all to march in two by two after the audience be seat , while Emma White play a march on the organ .
Oh , Marilla , I know you be not so enthusiastic about it a I be , but do n't you hope your little Anne will distinguish herself ? ''
`` All I hope be that you 'll behave yourself .
I 'll be heartily glad when all this fuss be over and you 'll be able to settle down .
You be simply good for nothing just now with your head stuff full of dialogue and groan and tableau .
As for your tongue , it 's a marvel it 's not clean wear out . ''
Anne sigh and betook herself to the back yard , over which a young new moon be shin through the leafless poplar bough from an apple-green western sky , and where Matthew be split wood .
Anne perch herself on a block and talk the concert over with him , sure of an appreciative and sympathetic listener in this instance at least .
`` Well now , I reckon it 's go to be a pretty good concert .
And I expect you 'll do your part fine , '' he say , smile down into her eager , vivacious little face .
Anne smile back at him .
Those two be the best of friend and Matthew thank his star many a time and oft that he have nothing to do with bring her up .
That be Marilla 's exclusive duty ; if it have be his he would have be worry over frequent conflict between inclination and say duty .
As it be , he be free to , `` spoil Anne '' -- Marilla 's phrasing -- as much a he like .
But it be not such a bad arrangement after all ; a little `` appreciation '' sometimes do quite as much good a all the conscientious `` bring up '' in the world .
CHAPTER XXV .
Matthew Insists on Puffed Sleeves Matthew be have a bad ten minute of it .
He have come into the kitchen , in the twilight of a cold , gray December evening , and have sit down in the woodbox corner to take off his heavy boot , unconscious of the fact that Anne and a bevy of her schoolmate be have a practice of `` The Fairy Queen '' in the sitting room .
Presently they come troop through the hall and out into the kitchen , laugh and chatter gaily .
They do not see Matthew , who shrink bashfully back into the shadow beyond the woodbox with a boot in one hand and a bootjack in the other , and he watch them shyly for the aforesaid ten minute a they put on cap and jacket and talk about the dialogue and the concert .
Anne stand among them , bright eyed and animate a they ; but Matthew suddenly become conscious that there be something about her different from her mate .
And what worry Matthew be that the difference impress him a be something that should not exist .
Anne have a brighter face , and big , starry eye , and more delicate feature than the other ; even shy , unobservant Matthew have learn to take note of these thing ; but the difference that disturb him do not consist in any of these respect .
Then in what do it consist ?
Matthew be haunt by this question long after the girl have go , arm in arm , down the long , hard-frozen lane and Anne have betaken herself to her book .
He could not refer it to Marilla , who , he felt , would be quite sure to sniff scornfully and remark that the only difference she saw between Anne and the other girl be that they sometimes keep their tongue quiet while Anne never do .
This , Matthew felt , would be no great help .
He have recourse to his pipe that even to help him study it out , much to Marilla 's disgust .
After two hour of smoking and hard reflection Matthew arrive at a solution of his problem .
Anne be not dress like the other girl !
The more Matthew think about the matter the more he be convince that Anne never have be dress like the other girl -- never since she have come to Green Gables .
Marilla keep her clothe in plain , dark dress , all make after the same unvarying pattern .
If Matthew know there be such a thing a fashion in dress it be as much a he do ; but he be quite sure that Anne 's sleeve do not look at all like the sleeve the other girl wore .
He recall the cluster of little girl he have see around her that evening -- all gay in waist of red and blue and pink and white -- and he wonder why Marilla always keep her so plainly and soberly gown .
Of course , it must be all right .
Marilla know best and Marilla be bring her up .
Probably some wise , inscrutable motive be to be serve thereby .
But surely it would do no harm to let the child have one pretty dress -- something like Diana Barry always wore .
Matthew decide that he would give her one ; that surely could not be object to a an unwarranted put in of his oar .
Christmas be only a fortnight off .
A nice new dress would be the very thing for a present .
Matthew , with a sigh of satisfaction , put away his pipe and go to bed , while Marilla open all the door and air the house .
The very next evening Matthew betook himself to Carmody to buy the dress , determine to get the bad over and have do with it .
It would be , he felt assure , no trifle ordeal .
There be some thing Matthew could buy and prove himself no mean bargainer ; but he know he would be at the mercy of shopkeeper when it come to buy a girl 's dress .
After much cogitation Matthew resolve to go to Samuel Lawson 's store instead of William Blair 's .
To be sure , the Cuthberts always have go to William Blair 's ; it be almost as much a matter of conscience with them a to attend the Presbyterian church and vote Conservative .
But William Blair 's two daughter frequently wait on customer there and Matthew hold them in absolute dread .
He could contrive to deal with them when he know exactly what he want and could point it out ; but in such a matter a this , require explanation and consultation , Matthew felt that he must be sure of a man behind the counter .
So he would go to Lawson 's , where Samuel or his son would wait on him .
Alas !
Matthew do not know that Samuel , in the recent expansion of his business , have set up a lady clerk also ; she be a niece of his wife 's and a very dashing young person indeed , with a huge , droop pompadour , big , roll brown eye , and a most extensive and bewilder smile .
She be dress with exceed smartness and wear several bangle bracelet that glitter and rattle and tinkle with every movement of her hand .
Matthew be cover with confusion at find her there at all ; and those bangle completely wreck his wit at one fell swoop .
`` What can I do for you this evening , Mr. Cuthbert ? ''
Miss Lucilla Harris inquire , briskly and ingratiatingly , tap the counter with both hand .
`` Have you any -- any -- any -- well now , say any garden rake ? ''
stammer Matthew .
Miss Harris look somewhat surprised , as well she might , to hear a man inquire for garden rake in the middle of December .
`` I believe we have one or two leave over , '' she say , `` but they 're upstairs in the lumber room .
I 'll go and see . ''
During her absence Matthew collect his scattered sens for another effort .
When Miss Harris return with the rake and cheerfully inquire : `` Anything else tonight , Mr. Cuthbert ? ''
Matthew take his courage in both hand and reply : `` Well now , since you suggest it , I might as well -- take -- that be -- look at -- buy some -- some hayseed . ''
Miss Harris have hear Matthew Cuthbert call odd .
She now conclude that he be entirely crazy .
`` We only keep hayseed in the spring , '' she explain loftily .
`` We 've none on hand just now . ''
`` Oh , certainly -- certainly -- just a you say , '' stammer unhappy Matthew , seize the rake and make for the door .
At the threshold he recollect that he have not pay for it and he turn miserably back .
While Miss Harris be count out his change he rally his power for a final desperate attempt .
`` Well now -- if it be n't too much trouble -- I might as well -- that be -- I 'd like to look at -- at -- some sugar . ''
`` White or brown ? ''
queried Miss Harris patiently .
`` Oh -- well now -- brown , '' say Matthew feebly .
`` There 's a barrel of it over there , '' say Miss Harris , shake her bangle at it .
`` It 's the only kind we have . ''
`` I 'll -- I 'll take twenty pound of it , '' say Matthew , with bead of perspiration stand on his forehead .
Matthew have drive halfway home before he be his own man again .
It have be a gruesome experience , but it serve him right , he think , for commit the heresy of go to a strange store .
When he reach home he hide the rake in the tool house , but the sugar he carry in to Marilla .
`` Brown sugar ! ''
exclaim Marilla .
`` Whatever possess you to get so much ?
You know I never use it except for the hired man 's porridge or black fruit cake .
Jerry 's go and I 've make my cake long ago .
It 's not good sugar , either -- it 's coarse and dark -- William Blair do n't usually keep sugar like that . ''
`` I -- I think it might come in handy sometime , '' say Matthew , make good his escape .
When Matthew come to think the matter over he decide that a woman be require to cope with the situation .
Marilla be out of the question .
Matthew felt sure she would throw cold water on his project at once .
Remained only Mrs. Lynde ; for of no other woman in Avonlea would Matthew have dare to ask advice .
To Mrs. Lynde he go accordingly , and that good lady promptly take the matter out of the harassed man 's hand .
`` Pick out a dress for you to give Anne ?
To be sure I will .
I 'm go to Carmody tomorrow and I 'll attend to it .
Have you something particular in mind ?
No ?
Well , I 'll just go by my own judgment then .
I believe a nice rich brown would just suit Anne , and William Blair have some new gloria in that 's real pretty .
Perhaps you 'd like me to make it up for her , too , see that if Marilla be to make it Anne would probably get wind of it before the time and spoil the surprise ?
Well , I 'll do it .
No , it be n't a mite of trouble .
I like sew .
I 'll make it to fit my niece , Jenny Gillis , for she and Anne be as like a two pea as far a figure go . ''
`` Well now , I 'm much oblige , '' say Matthew , `` and -- and -- I dunno -- but I 'd like -- I think they make the sleeve different nowadays to what they use to be .
If it would n't be ask too much I -- I 'd like them make in the new way . ''
`` Puffs ?
Of course .
You need n't worry a speck more about it , Matthew .
I 'll make it up in the very late fashion , '' say Mrs. Lynde .
To herself she add when Matthew have go : `` It 'll be a real satisfaction to see that poor child wear something decent for once .
The way Marilla dress her be positively ridiculous , that 's what , and I 've ache to tell her so plainly a dozen time .
I 've hold my tongue though , for I can see Marilla do n't want advice and she think she know more about bringing child up than I do for all she 's an old maid .
But that 's always the way .
Folks that have bring up child know that there 's no hard and fast method in the world that 'll suit every child .
But them as never have think it 's all a plain and easy a Rule of Three -- just set your three term down so fashion , and the sum 'll work out correct .
But flesh and blood do n't come under the head of arithmetic and that 's where Marilla Cuthbert make her mistake .
I suppose she 's try to cultivate a spirit of humility in Anne by dress her a she do ; but it 's more likely to cultivate envy and discontent .
I 'm sure the child must feel the difference between her clothes and the other girl ' .
But to think of Matthew take notice of it !
That man be wake up after be asleep for over sixty year . ''
Marilla know all the follow fortnight that Matthew have something on his mind , but what it be she could not guess , until Christmas Eve , when Mrs. Lynde bring up the new dress .
Marilla behave pretty well on the whole , although it be very likely she distrust Mrs. Lynde 's diplomatic explanation that she have make the dress because Matthew be afraid Anne would find out about it too soon if Marilla make it .
`` So this be what Matthew have be look so mysterious over and grin about to himself for two week , be it ? ''
she say a little stiffly but tolerantly .
`` I know he be up to some foolishness .
Well , I must say I do n't think Anne need any more dress .
I make her three good , warm , serviceable one this fall , and anything more be sheer extravagance .
There 's enough material in those sleeve alone to make a waist , I declare there be .
You 'll just pamper Anne 's vanity , Matthew , and she 's as vain a a peacock now .
Well , I hope she 'll be satisfy at last , for I know she 's be hanker after those silly sleeve ever since they come in , although she never say a word after the first .
The puff have be get big and more ridiculous right along ; they 're as big a balloon now .
Next year anybody who wear them will have to go through a door sideways . ''
Christmas morning break on a beautiful white world .
It have be a very mild December and people have look forward to a green Christmas ; but just enough snow fell softly in the night to transfigure Avonlea .
Anne peep out from her frost gable window with delighted eye .
The fir in the Haunted Wood be all feathery and wonderful ; the birch and wild cherry tree be outline in pearl ; the plow field be stretch of snowy dimple ; and there be a crisp tang in the air that be glorious .
Anne run downstairs sing until her voice reechoed through Green Gables .
`` Merry Christmas , Marilla !
Merry Christmas , Matthew !
Is n't it a lovely Christmas ?
I 'm so glad it 's white .
Any other kind of Christmas do n't seem real , do it ?
I do n't like green Christmases .
They 're not green -- they 're just nasty fade brown and gray .
What make people call them green ?
Why -- why -- Matthew , be that for me ?
Oh , Matthew ! ''
Matthew have sheepishly unfold the dress from it paper swathing and hold it out with a deprecatory glance at Marilla , who feign to be contemptuously fill the teapot , but nevertheless watch the scene out of the corner of her eye with a rather interested air .
Anne take the dress and look at it in reverent silence .
Oh , how pretty it be -- a lovely soft brown gloria with all the gloss of silk ; a skirt with dainty frill and shirring ; a waist elaborately pintucked in the most fashionable way , with a little ruffle of filmy lace at the neck .
But the sleeve -- they be the crown glory !
Long elbow cuff , and above them two beautiful puff divide by row of shirr and bow of brown-silk ribbon .
`` That 's a Christmas present for you , Anne , '' say Matthew shyly .
`` Why -- why -- Anne , do n't you like it ?
Well now -- well now . ''
For Anne 's eye have suddenly fill with tear .
`` Like it !
Oh , Matthew ! ''
Anne lay the dress over a chair and clasp her hand .
`` Matthew , it 's perfectly exquisite .
Oh , I can never thank you enough .
Look at those sleeve !
Oh , it seem to me this must be a happy dream . ''
`` Well , well , let u have breakfast , '' interrupt Marilla .
`` I must say , Anne , I do n't think you need the dress ; but since Matthew have get it for you , see that you take good care of it .
There 's a hair ribbon Mrs. Lynde leave for you .
It 's brown , to match the dress .
Come now , sit in . ''
`` I do n't see how I 'm go to eat breakfast , '' say Anne rapturously .
`` Breakfast seem so commonplace at such an exciting moment .
I 'd rather feast my eye on that dress .
I 'm so glad that puffed sleeve be still fashionable .
It do seem to me that I 'd never get over it if they go out before I have a dress with them .
I 'd never have felt quite satisfied , you see .
It be lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give me the ribbon too .
I feel that I ought to be a very good girl indeed .
It 's at time like this I 'm sorry I 'm not a model little girl ; and I always resolve that I will be in future .
But somehow it 's hard to carry out your resolution when irresistible temptation come .
Still , I really will make an extra effort after this . ''
When the commonplace breakfast be over Diana appear , cross the white log bridge in the hollow , a gay little figure in her crimson ulster .
Anne fly down the slope to meet her .
`` Merry Christmas , Diana !
And oh , it 's a wonderful Christmas .
I 've something splendid to show you .
Matthew have give me the lovely dress , with SUCH sleeve .
I could n't even imagine any nicer . ''
`` I 've get something more for you , '' say Diana breathlessly .
`` Here -- this box .
Aunt Josephine send u out a big box with ever so many thing in it -- and this be for you .
I 'd have bring it over last night , but it do n't come until after dark , and I never feel very comfortable come through the Haunted Wood in the dark now . ''
Anne open the box and peep in .
First a card with `` For the Anne-girl and Merry Christmas , '' write on it ; and then , a pair of the dainty little kid slipper , with bead toe and satin bow and glisten buckle .
`` Oh , '' say Anne , `` Diana , this be too much .
I must be dream . ''
`` I call it providential , '' say Diana .
`` You wo n't have to borrow Ruby 's slipper now , and that 's a blessing , for they 're two size too big for you , and it would be awful to hear a fairy shuffling .
Josie Pye would be delight .
Mind you , Rob Wright go home with Gertie Pye from the practice night before last .
Did you ever hear anything equal to that ? ''
All the Avonlea scholar be in a fever of excitement that day , for the hall have to be decorate and a last grand rehearsal hold .
The concert come off in the evening and be a pronounced success .
The little hall be crowd ; all the performer do excellently well , but Anne be the bright particular star of the occasion , a even envy , in the shape of Josie Pye , dare not deny .
`` Oh , have n't it be a brilliant evening ? ''
sigh Anne , when it be all over and she and Diana be walk home together under a dark , starry sky .
`` Everything go off very well , '' say Diana practically .
`` I guess we must have make as much a ten dollar .
Mind you , Mr. Allan be go to send an account of it to the Charlottetown paper . ''
`` Oh , Diana , will we really see our name in print ?
It make me thrill to think of it .
Your solo be perfectly elegant , Diana .
I felt prouder than you do when it be encore .
I just say to myself , ` It be my dear bosom friend who be so honored . ' ''
`` Well , your recitation just bring down the house , Anne .
That sad one be simply splendid . ''
`` Oh , I be so nervous , Diana .
When Mr. Allan call out my name I really can not tell how I ever get up on that platform .
I felt a if a million eye be look at me and through me , and for one dreadful moment I be sure I could n't begin at all .
Then I think of my lovely puffed sleeve and take courage .
I know that I must live up to those sleeve , Diana .
So I start in , and my voice seem to be come from ever so far away .
I just felt like a parrot .
It 's providential that I practice those recitation so often up in the garret , or I 'd never have be able to get through .
Did I groan all right ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , you groan lovely , '' assure Diana .
`` I saw old Mrs. Sloane wipe away tear when I sit down .
It be splendid to think I have touch somebody 's heart .
It 's so romantic to take part in a concert , be n't it ?
Oh , it 's be a very memorable occasion indeed . ''
`` Was n't the boy ' dialogue fine ? ''
say Diana .
`` Gilbert Blythe be just splendid .
Anne , I do think it 's awful mean the way you treat Gil .
Wait till I tell you .
When you run off the platform after the fairy dialogue one of your rose fell out of your hair .
I saw Gil pick it up and put it in his breast pocket .
There now .
You 're so romantic that I 'm sure you ought to be please at that . ''
`` It 's nothing to me what that person do , '' say Anne loftily .
`` I simply never waste a thought on him , Diana . ''
That night Marilla and Matthew , who have be out to a concert for the first time in twenty year , sit for a while by the kitchen fire after Anne have go to bed .
`` Well now , I guess our Anne do as well a any of them , '' say Matthew proudly .
`` Yes , she do , '' admit Marilla .
`` She 's a bright child , Matthew .
And she look real nice too .
I 've be kind of oppose to this concert scheme , but I suppose there 's no real harm in it after all .
Anyhow , I be proud of Anne tonight , although I 'm not go to tell her so . ''
`` Well now , I be proud of her and I do tell her so ` fore she go upstairs , '' say Matthew .
`` We must see what we can do for her some of these day , Marilla .
I guess she 'll need something more than Avonlea school by and by . ''
`` There 's time enough to think of that , '' say Marilla .
`` She 's only thirteen in March .
Though tonight it strike me she be grow quite a big girl .
Mrs. Lynde make that dress a mite too long , and it make Anne look so tall .
She 's quick to learn and I guess the best thing we can do for her will be to send her to Queen 's after a spell .
But nothing need be say about that for a year or two yet . ''
`` Well now , it 'll do no harm to be think it over off and on , '' say Matthew .
`` Things like that be all the good for lot of thinking over . ''
CHAPTER XXVI .
The Story Club Is Formed Junior Avonlea find it hard to settle down to humdrum existence again .
To Anne in particular thing seem fearfully flat , stale , and unprofitable after the goblet of excitement she have be sip for week .
Could she go back to the former quiet pleasure of those faraway day before the concert ?
At first , a she tell Diana , she do not really think she could .
`` I 'm positively certain , Diana , that life can never be quite the same again a it be in those olden day , '' she say mournfully , a if refer to a period of at least fifty year back .
`` Perhaps after a while I 'll get use to it , but I 'm afraid concert spoil people for everyday life .
I suppose that be why Marilla disapprove of them .
Marilla be such a sensible woman .
It must be a great deal well to be sensible ; but still , I do n't believe I 'd really want to be a sensible person , because they be so unromantic .
Mrs. Lynde say there be no danger of my ever be one , but you can never tell .
I feel just now that I may grow up to be sensible yet .
But perhaps that be only because I 'm tired .
I simply could n't sleep last night for ever so long .
I just lay awake and imagine the concert over and over again .
That 's one splendid thing about such affair -- it 's so lovely to look back to them . ''
Eventually , however , Avonlea school slip back into it old groove and take up it old interest .
To be sure , the concert leave trace .
Ruby Gillis and Emma White , who have quarrel over a point of precedence in their platform seat , no longer sit at the same desk , and a promising friendship of three year be break up .
Josie Pye and Julia Bell do not `` speak '' for three month , because Josie Pye have tell Bessie Wright that Julia Bell 's bow when she get up to recite made her think of a chicken jerk it head , and Bessie tell Julia .
None of the Sloanes would have any dealing with the Bells , because the Bells have declare that the Sloanes have too much to do in the program , and the Sloanes have retort that the Bells be not capable of do the little they have to do properly .
Finally , Charlie Sloane fight Moody Spurgeon MacPherson , because Moody Spurgeon have say that Anne Shirley put on air about her recitation , and Moody Spurgeon be `` licked '' ; consequently Moody Spurgeon 's sister , Ella May , would not `` speak '' to Anne Shirley all the rest of the winter .
With the exception of these trifle friction , work in Miss Stacy 's little kingdom go on with regularity and smoothness .
The winter week slip by .
It be an unusually mild winter , with so little snow that Anne and Diana could go to school nearly every day by way of the Birch Path .
On Anne 's birthday they be trip lightly down it , keep eye and ear alert amid all their chatter , for Miss Stacy have tell them that they must soon write a composition on `` A Winter 's Walk in the Woods , '' and it behoove them to be observant .
`` Just think , Diana , I 'm thirteen year old today , '' remark Anne in an awed voice .
`` I can scarcely realize that I 'm in my teen .
When I wake this morning it seem to me that everything must be different .
You 've be thirteen for a month , so I suppose it do n't seem such a novelty to you a it do to me .
It make life seem so much more interesting .
In two more year I 'll be really grow up .
It 's a great comfort to think that I 'll be able to use big word then without be laugh at . ''
`` Ruby Gillis say she mean to have a beau as soon a she 's fifteen , '' say Diana .
`` Ruby Gillis think of nothing but beau , '' say Anne disdainfully .
`` She 's actually delight when anyone write her name up in a take-notice for all she pretend to be so mad .
But I 'm afraid that be an uncharitable speech .
Mrs. Allan say we should never make uncharitable speech ; but they do slip out so often before you think , do n't they ?
I simply ca n't talk about Josie Pye without make an uncharitable speech , so I never mention her at all .
You may have notice that .
I 'm try to be as much like Mrs. Allan a I possibly can , for I think she 's perfect .
Mr. Allan think so too .
Mrs. Lynde say he just worship the ground she tread on and she do n't really think it right for a minister to set his affection so much on a mortal be .
But then , Diana , even minister be human and have their besetting sin just like everybody else .
I have such an interesting talk with Mrs. Allan about beset sin last Sunday afternoon .
There be just a few thing it 's proper to talk about on Sundays and that be one of them .
My besetting sin be imagine too much and forget my duty .
I 'm strive very hard to overcome it and now that I 'm really thirteen perhaps I 'll get on good . ''
`` In four more year we 'll be able to put our hair up , '' say Diana .
`` Alice Bell be only sixteen and she be wear hers up , but I think that 's ridiculous .
I shall wait until I 'm seventeen . ''
`` If I have Alice Bell 's crooked nose , '' say Anne decidedly , `` I would n't -- but there !
I wo n't say what I be go to because it be extremely uncharitable .
Besides , I be compare it with my own nose and that 's vanity .
I 'm afraid I think too much about my nose ever since I hear that compliment about it long ago .
It really be a great comfort to me .
Oh , Diana , look , there 's a rabbit .
That 's something to remember for our wood composition .
I really think the wood be just a lovely in winter a in summer .
They 're so white and still , a if they be asleep and dream pretty dream . ''
`` I wo n't mind write that composition when it time come , '' sigh Diana .
`` I can manage to write about the wood , but the one we 're to hand in Monday be terrible .
The idea of Miss Stacy tell u to write a story out of our own head ! ''
`` Why , it 's as easy a wink , '' say Anne .
`` It 's easy for you because you have an imagination , '' retort Diana , `` but what would you do if you have be bear without one ?
I suppose you have your composition all do ? ''
Anne nod , try hard not to look virtuously complacent and fail miserably .
`` I write it last Monday evening .
It 's call ` The Jealous Rival ; or In Death Not Divided . '
I read it to Marilla and she say it be stuff and nonsense .
Then I read it to Matthew and he say it be fine .
That be the kind of critic I like .
It 's a sad , sweet story .
I just cry like a child while I be write it .
It 's about two beautiful maiden call Cordelia Montmorency and Geraldine Seymour who live in the same village and be devotedly attach to each other .
Cordelia be a regal brunette with a coronet of midnight hair and duskly flash eye .
Geraldine be a queenly blonde with hair like spun gold and velvety purple eye . ''
`` I never saw anybody with purple eye , '' say Diana dubiously .
`` Neither do I. I just imagine them .
I want something out of the common .
Geraldine have an alabaster brow too .
I 've find out what an alabaster brow be .
That be one of the advantage of be thirteen .
You know so much more than you do when you be only twelve . ''
`` Well , what become of Cordelia and Geraldine ? ''
ask Diana , who be begin to feel rather interested in their fate .
`` They grow in beauty side by side until they be sixteen .
Then Bertram DeVere come to their native village and fell in love with the fair Geraldine .
He save her life when her horse run away with her in a carriage , and she faint in his arm and he carry her home three mile ; because , you understand , the carriage be all smash up .
I find it rather hard to imagine the proposal because I have no experience to go by .
I ask Ruby Gillis if she know anything about how men propose because I think she 'd likely be an authority on the subject , have so many sister marry .
Ruby tell me she be hide in the hall pantry when Malcolm Andres propose to her sister Susan .
She say Malcolm tell Susan that his dad have give him the farm in his own name and then say , ` What do you say , darling pet , if we get hitch this fall ? '
And Susan say , ` Yes -- no -- I do n't know -- let me see ' -- and there they be , engage as quick a that .
But I do n't think that sort of a proposal be a very romantic one , so in the end I have to imagine it out as well a I could .
I make it very flowery and poetical and Bertram go on his knee , although Ruby Gillis say it be n't do nowadays .
Geraldine accept him in a speech a page long .
I can tell you I take a lot of trouble with that speech .
I rewrite it five time and I look upon it a my masterpiece .
Bertram give her a diamond ring and a ruby necklace and tell her they would go to Europe for a wedding tour , for he be immensely wealthy .
But then , ala , shadow begin to darken over their path .
Cordelia be secretly in love with Bertram herself and when Geraldine tell her about the engagement she be simply furious , especially when she saw the necklace and the diamond ring .
All her affection for Geraldine turn to bitter hate and she vow that she should never marry Bertram .
But she pretend to be Geraldine 's friend the same a ever .
One evening they be stand on the bridge over a rushing turbulent stream and Cordelia , think they be alone , push Geraldine over the brink with a wild , mocking , ` Ha , ha , ha . '
But Bertram saw it all and he at once plunge into the current , exclaim , ' I will save thee , my peerless Geraldine . '
But ala , he have forget he could n't swim , and they be both drown , clasp in each other 's arm .
Their body be wash ashore soon afterwards .
They be bury in the one grave and their funeral be most imposing , Diana .
It 's so much more romantic to end a story up with a funeral than a wedding .
As for Cordelia , she go insane with remorse and be shut up in a lunatic asylum .
I think that be a poetical retribution for her crime . ''
`` How perfectly lovely ! ''
sigh Diana , who belong to Matthew 's school of critic .
`` I do n't see how you can make up such thrilling thing out of your own head , Anne .
I wish my imagination be as good a yours . ''
`` It would be if you 'd only cultivate it , '' say Anne cheeringly .
`` I 've just think of a plan , Diana .
Let you and me have a story club all our own and write story for practice .
I 'll help you along until you can do them by yourself .
You ought to cultivate your imagination , you know .
Miss Stacy say so .
Only we must take the right way .
I tell her about the Haunted Wood , but she say we go the wrong way about it in that . ''
This be how the story club come into existence .
It be limit to Diana and Anne at first , but soon it be extend to include Jane Andrews and Ruby Gillis and one or two others who felt that their imagination need cultivating .
No boy be allow in it -- although Ruby Gillis opine that their admission would make it more exciting -- and each member have to produce one story a week .
`` It 's extremely interesting , '' Anne tell Marilla .
`` Each girl have to read her story out loud and then we talk it over .
We be go to keep them all sacredly and have them to read to our descendant .
We each write under a nom-de-plume .
Mine be Rosamond Montmorency .
All the girl do pretty well .
Ruby Gillis be rather sentimental .
She put too much lovemaking into her story and you know too much be bad than too little .
Jane never put any because she say it make her feel so silly when she have to read it out loud .
Jane 's story be extremely sensible .
Then Diana put too many murder into hers .
She say most of the time she do n't know what to do with the people so she kill them off to get rid of them .
I mostly always have to tell them what to write about , but that be n't hard for I 've million of idea . ''
`` I think this story-writing business be the foolish yet , '' scoff Marilla .
`` You 'll get a pack of nonsense into your head and waste time that should be put on your lesson .
Reading story be bad enough but write them be bad . ''
`` But we 're so careful to put a moral into them all , Marilla , '' explain Anne .
`` I insist upon that .
All the good people be reward and all the bad one be suitably punish .
I 'm sure that must have a wholesome effect .
The moral be the great thing .
Mr. Allan say so .
I read one of my story to him and Mrs. Allan and they both agree that the moral be excellent .
Only they laugh in the wrong place .
I like it well when people cry .
Jane and Ruby almost always cry when I come to the pathetic part .
Diana write her Aunt Josephine about our club and her Aunt Josephine write back that we be to send her some of our story .
So we copy out four of our very best and send them .
Miss Josephine Barry write back that she have never read anything so amuse in her life .
That kind of puzzle u because the story be all very pathetic and almost everybody die .
But I 'm glad Miss Barry like them .
It show our club be do some good in the world .
Mrs. Allan say that ought to be our object in everything .
I do really try to make it my object but I forget so often when I 'm have fun .
I hope I shall be a little like Mrs. Allan when I grow up .
Do you think there be any prospect of it , Marilla ? ''
`` I should n't say there be a great deal '' be Marilla 's encourage answer .
`` I 'm sure Mrs. Allan be never such a silly , forgetful little girl a you be . ''
`` No ; but she be n't always so good a she be now either , '' say Anne seriously .
`` She tell me so herself -- that be , she say she be a dreadful mischief when she be a girl and be always get into scrape .
I felt so encouraged when I hear that .
Is it very wicked of me , Marilla , to feel encouraged when I hear that other people have be bad and mischievous ?
Mrs. Lynde say it be .
Mrs. Lynde say she always feel shock when she hear of anyone ever have be naughty , no matter how small they be .
Mrs. Lynde say she once hear a minister confess that when he be a boy he steal a strawberry tart out of his aunt 's pantry and she never have any respect for that minister again .
Now , I would n't have felt that way .
I 'd have think that it be real noble of him to confess it , and I 'd have think what an encouraging thing it would be for small boy nowadays who do naughty thing and be sorry for them to know that perhaps they may grow up to be minister in spite of it .
That 's how I 'd feel , Marilla . ''
`` The way I feel at present , Anne , '' say Marilla , `` be that it 's high time you have those dish wash .
You 've take half an hour long than you should with all your chattering .
Learn to work first and talk afterwards . ''
CHAPTER XXVII .
Vanity and Vexation of Spirit Marilla , walk home one late April evening from an Aid meeting , realize that the winter be over and go with the thrill of delight that spring never fail to bring to the old and saddest as well a to the young and merry .
Marilla be not give to subjective analysis of her thought and feeling .
She probably imagine that she be think about the Aids and their missionary box and the new carpet for the vestry room , but under these reflection be a harmonious consciousness of red field smoke into pale-purply mist in the decline sun , of long , sharp-pointed fir shadow fall over the meadow beyond the brook , of still , crimson-budded maple around a mirrorlike wood pool , of a wakening in the world and a stir of hidden pulse under the gray sod .
The spring be abroad in the land and Marilla 's sober , middle-aged step be light and swifter because of it deep , primal gladness .
Her eye dwell affectionately on Green Gables , peer through it network of tree and reflect the sunlight back from it window in several little coruscation of glory .
Marilla , a she pick her step along the damp lane , think that it be really a satisfaction to know that she be go home to a briskly snapping wood fire and a table nicely spread for tea , instead of to the cold comfort of old Aid meeting evening before Anne have come to Green Gables .
Consequently , when Marilla enter her kitchen and find the fire black out , with no sign of Anne anywhere , she felt justly disappoint and irritate .
She have tell Anne to be sure and have tea ready at five o'clock , but now she must hurry to take off her second-best dress and prepare the meal herself against Matthew 's return from plow .
`` I 'll settle Miss Anne when she come home , '' say Marilla grimly , a she shave up kindling with a carve knife and with more vim than be strictly necessary .
Matthew have come in and be wait patiently for his tea in his corner .
`` She 's gad off somewhere with Diana , write story or practice dialogue or some such tomfoolery , and never thinking once about the time or her duty .
She 's just get to be pull up short and sudden on this sort of thing .
I do n't care if Mrs. Allan do say she 's the brightest and sweet child she ever know .
She may be bright and sweet enough , but her head be full of nonsense and there 's never any know what shape it 'll break out in next .
Just as soon a she grow out of one freak she take up with another .
But there !
Here I be say the very thing I be so riled with Rachel Lynde for say at the Aid today .
I be real glad when Mrs. Allan speak up for Anne , for if she have n't I know I 'd have say something too sharp to Rachel before everybody .
Anne 's get plenty of fault , goodness know , and far be it from me to deny it .
But I 'm bring her up and not Rachel Lynde , who 'd pick fault in the Angel Gabriel himself if he live in Avonlea .
Just the same , Anne have no business to leave the house like this when I tell her she be to stay home this afternoon and look after thing .
I must say , with all her fault , I never find her disobedient or untrustworthy before and I 'm real sorry to find her so now . ''
`` Well now , I dunno , '' say Matthew , who , be patient and wise and , above all , hungry , have deem it best to let Marilla talk her wrath out unhindered , have learn by experience that she get through with whatever work be on hand much quicker if not delay by untimely argument .
`` Perhaps you 're judge her too hasty , Marilla .
Do n't call her untrustworthy until you 're sure she have disobey you .
Mebbe it can all be explain -- Anne 's a great hand at explain . ''
`` She 's not here when I tell her to stay , '' retort Marilla .
`` I reckon she 'll find it hard to explain THAT to my satisfaction .
Of course I know you 'd take her part , Matthew .
But I 'm bring her up , not you . ''
It be dark when supper be ready , and still no sign of Anne , come hurriedly over the log bridge or up Lover 's Lane , breathless and repentant with a sense of neglected duty .
Marilla wash and put away the dish grimly .
Then , want a candle to light her way down the cellar , she go up to the east gable for the one that generally stand on Anne 's table .
Lighting it , she turn around to see Anne herself lie on the bed , face downward among the pillow .
`` Mercy on u , '' say astonish Marilla , `` have you be asleep , Anne ? ''
`` No , '' be the muffled reply .
`` Are you sick then ? ''
demand Marilla anxiously , go over to the bed .
Anne cower deeply into her pillow a if desirous of hide herself forever from mortal eye .
`` No .
But please , Marilla , go away and do n't look at me .
I 'm in the depth of despair and I do n't care who get head in class or write the best composition or sings in the Sunday-school choir any more .
Little thing like that be of no importance now because I do n't suppose I 'll ever be able to go anywhere again .
My career be close .
Please , Marilla , go away and do n't look at me . ''
`` Did anyone ever hear the like ? ''
the mystified Marilla want to know .
`` Anne Shirley , whatever be the matter with you ?
What have you do ?
Get right up this minute and tell me .
This minute , I say .
There now , what be it ? ''
Anne have slide to the floor in despair obedience .
`` Look at my hair , Marilla , '' she whisper .
Accordingly , Marilla lift her candle and look scrutinizingly at Anne 's hair , flow in heavy mass down her back .
It certainly have a very strange appearance .
`` Anne Shirley , what have you do to your hair ?
Why , it 's GREEN ! ''
Green it might be call , if it be any earthly color -- a queer , dull , bronzy green , with streak here and there of the original red to heighten the ghastly effect .
Never in all her life have Marilla see anything so grotesque a Anne 's hair at that moment .
`` Yes , it 's green , '' moan Anne .
`` I think nothing could be as bad a red hair .
But now I know it 's ten time bad to have green hair .
Oh , Marilla , you little know how utterly wretched I be . ''
`` I little know how you get into this fix , but I mean to find out , '' say Marilla .
`` Come right down to the kitchen -- it 's too cold up here -- and tell me just what you 've do .
I 've be expect something queer for some time .
You have n't get into any scrape for over two month , and I be sure another one be due .
Now , then , what do you do to your hair ? ''
`` I dye it . ''
`` Dyed it !
Dyed your hair !
Anne Shirley , do n't you know it be a wicked thing to do ? ''
`` Yes , I know it be a little wicked , '' admit Anne .
`` But I think it be worth while to be a little wicked to get rid of red hair .
I count the cost , Marilla .
Besides , I mean to be extra good in other way to make up for it . ''
`` Well , '' say Marilla sarcastically , `` if I 'd decide it be worth while to dye my hair I 'd have dye it a decent color at least .
I would n't have dye it green . ''
`` But I do n't mean to dye it green , Marilla , '' protest Anne dejectedly .
`` If I be wicked I mean to be wicked to some purpose .
He say it would turn my hair a beautiful raven black -- he positively assure me that it would .
How could I doubt his word , Marilla ?
I know what it feel like to have your word doubt .
And Mrs. Allan say we should never suspect anyone of not tell u the truth unless we have proof that they 're not .
I have proof now -- green hair be proof enough for anybody .
But I have n't then and I believe every word he say IMPLICITLY . ''
`` Who say ?
Who be you talk about ? ''
`` The peddler that be here this afternoon .
I buy the dye from him . ''
`` Anne Shirley , how often have I tell you never to let one of those Italians in the house !
I do n't believe in encourage them to come around at all . ''
`` Oh , I do n't let him in the house .
I remember what you tell me , and I go out , carefully shut the door , and look at his thing on the step .
Besides , he be n't an Italian -- he be a German Jew .
He have a big box full of very interesting thing and he tell me he be work hard to make enough money to bring his wife and child out from Germany .
He speak so feelingly about them that it touch my heart .
I want to buy something from him to help him in such a worthy object .
Then all at once I saw the bottle of hair dye .
The peddler say it be warrant to dye any hair a beautiful raven black and would n't wash off .
In a trice I saw myself with beautiful raven-black hair and the temptation be irresistible .
But the price of the bottle be seventy-five cent and I have only fifty cent leave out of my chicken money .
I think the peddler have a very kind heart , for he say that , see it be me , he 'd sell it for fifty cent and that be just give it away .
So I buy it , and as soon a he have go I come up here and apply it with an old hairbrush a the direction say .
I use up the whole bottle , and oh , Marilla , when I saw the dreadful color it turn my hair I repent of be wicked , I can tell you .
And I 've be repent ever since . ''
`` Well , I hope you 'll repent to good purpose , '' say Marilla severely , `` and that you 've get your eye open to where your vanity have lead you , Anne .
Goodness know what 's to be do .
I suppose the first thing be to give your hair a good washing and see if that will do any good . ''
Accordingly , Anne wash her hair , scrub it vigorously with soap and water , but for all the difference it make she might as well have be scour it original red .
The peddler have certainly speak the truth when he declare that the dye would n't wash off , however his veracity might be impeach in other respect .
`` Oh , Marilla , what shall I do ? ''
question Anne in tear .
`` I can never live this down .
People have pretty well forget my other mistake -- the liniment cake and set Diana drunk and fly into a temper with Mrs. Lynde .
But they 'll never forget this .
They will think I be not respectable .
Oh , Marilla , ` what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive . '
That be poetry , but it be true .
And oh , how Josie Pye will laugh !
Marilla , I CAN NOT face Josie Pye .
I be the unhappy girl in Prince Edward Island . ''
Anne 's unhappiness continue for a week .
During that time she go nowhere and shampoo her hair every day .
Diana alone of outsider know the fatal secret , but she promise solemnly never to tell , and it may be state here and now that she keep her word .
At the end of the week Marilla say decidedly : `` It 's no use , Anne .
That be fast dye if ever there be any .
Your hair must be cut off ; there be no other way .
You ca n't go out with it look like that . ''
Anne 's lip quiver , but she realize the bitter truth of Marilla 's remark .
With a dismal sigh she go for the scissors .
`` Please cut it off at once , Marilla , and have it over .
Oh , I feel that my heart be break .
This be such an unromantic affliction .
The girl in book lose their hair in fever or sell it to get money for some good deed , and I 'm sure I would n't mind lose my hair in some such fashion half so much .
But there be nothing comfort in have your hair cut off because you 've dye it a dreadful color , be there ?
I 'm go to weep all the time you 're cut it off , if it wo n't interfere .
It seem such a tragic thing . ''
Anne weep then , but later on , when she go upstairs and look in the glass , she be calm with despair .
Marilla have do her work thoroughly and it have be necessary to shingle the hair as closely a possible .
The result be not become , to state the case as mildly a may be .
Anne promptly turn her glass to the wall .
`` I 'll never , never look at myself again until my hair grows , '' she exclaim passionately .
Then she suddenly right the glass .
`` Yes , I will , too .
I 'd do penance for be wicked that way .
I 'll look at myself every time I come to my room and see how ugly I be .
And I wo n't try to imagine it away , either .
I never think I be vain about my hair , of all thing , but now I know I be , in spite of it be red , because it be so long and thick and curly .
I expect something will happen to my nose next . ''
Anne 's clip head make a sensation in school on the follow Monday , but to her relief nobody guess the real reason for it , not even Josie Pye , who , however , do not fail to inform Anne that she look like a perfect scarecrow .
`` I do n't say anything when Josie say that to me , '' Anne confide that even to Marilla , who be lie on the sofa after one of her headache , `` because I think it be part of my punishment and I ought to bear it patiently .
It 's hard to be tell you look like a scarecrow and I want to say something back .
But I do n't .
I just sweep her one scornful look and then I forgive her .
It make you feel very virtuous when you forgive people , do n't it ?
I mean to devote all my energy to be good after this and I shall never try to be beautiful again .
Of course it 's good to be good .
I know it be , but it 's sometimes so hard to believe a thing even when you know it .
I do really want to be good , Marilla , like you and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy , and grow up to be a credit to you .
Diana say when my hair begin to grow to tie a black velvet ribbon around my head with a bow at one side .
She say she think it will be very become .
I will call it a snood -- that sound so romantic .
But be I talk too much , Marilla ?
Does it hurt your head ? ''
`` My head be well now .
It be terrible bad this afternoon , though .
These headache of mine be get bad and bad .
I 'll have to see a doctor about them .
As for your chatter , I do n't know that I mind it -- I 've get so use to it . ''
Which be Marilla 's way of say that she like to hear it .
CHAPTER XXVIII .
An Unfortunate Lily Maid `` OF course you must be Elaine , Anne , '' say Diana .
`` I could never have the courage to float down there . ''
`` Nor I , '' say Ruby Gillis , with a shiver .
`` I do n't mind float down when there 's two or three of u in the flat and we can sit up .
It 's fun then .
But to lie down and pretend I be dead -- I just could n't .
I 'd die really of fright . ''
`` Of course it would be romantic , '' concede Jane Andrews , `` but I know I could n't keep still .
I 'd be pop up every minute or so to see where I be and if I be n't drift too far out .
And you know , Anne , that would spoil the effect . ''
`` But it 's so ridiculous to have a redheaded Elaine , '' mourn Anne .
`` I 'm not afraid to float down and I 'd love to be Elaine .
But it 's ridiculous just the same .
Ruby ought to be Elaine because she be so fair and have such lovely long golden hair -- Elaine have ` all her bright hair stream down , ' you know .
And Elaine be the lily maid .
Now , a red-haired person can not be a lily maid . ''
`` Your complexion be just as fair a Ruby 's , '' say Diana earnestly , `` and your hair be ever so much darker than it use to be before you cut it . ''
`` Oh , do you really think so ? ''
exclaim Anne , flush sensitively with delight .
`` I 've sometimes think it be myself -- but I never dare to ask anyone for fear she would tell me it be n't .
