It be a teacher 's duty to find and develop it .
That be what our School Management professor at Queen 's tell u , you know .
Do you suppose you could find any good in a child by whip him ?
It 's far more important to influence the child aright than it be even to teach them the three R 's , Professor Rennie say . ''
`` But the Inspector examine them in the three R 's , mind you , and he wo n't give you a good report if they do n't come up to his standard , '' protest Jane .
`` I 'd rather have my pupil love me and look back to me in after year a a real helper than be on the roll of honor , '' assert Anne decidedly .
`` Would n't you punish child at all , when they misbehave ? ''
ask Gilbert .
`` Oh , yes , I suppose I shall have to , although I know I 'll hate to do it .
But you can keep them in at recess or stand them on the floor or give them line to write . ''
`` I suppose you wo n't punish the girl by make them sit with the boy ? ''
say Jane slyly .
Gilbert and Anne look at each other and smile rather foolishly .
Once upon a time , Anne have be make to sit with Gilbert for punishment and sad and bitter have be the consequence thereof .
`` Well , time will tell which be the best way , '' say Jane philosophically a they part .
Anne go back to Green Gables by way of Birch Path , shadowy , rustle , fern-scented , through Violet Vale and past Willowmere , where dark and light kiss each other under the fir , and down through Lover 's Lane ... spot she and Diana have so name long ago .
She walk slowly , enjoy the sweetness of wood and field and the starry summer twilight , and think soberly about the new duty she be to take up on the morrow .
When she reach the yard at Green Gables Mrs. Lynde 's loud , decide tone float out through the open kitchen window .
`` Mrs. Lynde have come up to give me good advice about tomorrow , '' think Anne with a grimace , `` but I do n't believe I 'll go in .
Her advice be much like pepper , I think ... excellent in small quantity but rather scorch in her dos .
I 'll run over and have a chat with Mr. Harrison instead . ''
This be not the first time Anne have run over and chat with Mr. Harrison since the notable affair of the Jersey cow .
She have be there several evening and Mr. Harrison and she be very good friend , although there be time and season when Anne find the outspokenness on which he pride himself rather try .
Ginger still continue to regard her with suspicion , and never fail to greet her sarcastically a `` redheaded snippet . ''
Mr. Harrison have try vainly to break him of the habit by jump excitedly up whenever he saw Anne come and exclaiming , `` Bless my soul , here 's that pretty little girl again , '' or something equally flattering .
But Ginger saw through the scheme and scorn it .
Anne be never to know how many compliment Mr. Harrison pay her behind her back .
He certainly never pay her any to her face .
`` Well , I suppose you 've be back in the wood lay in a supply of switch for tomorrow ? ''
be his greeting a Anne come up the veranda step .
`` No , indeed , '' say Anne indignantly .
She be an excellent target for teasing because she always take thing so seriously .
`` I shall never have a switch in my school , Mr. Harrison .
Of course , I shall have to have a pointer , but I shall use it for point ONLY . ''
`` So you mean to strap them instead ?
Well , I do n't know but you 're right .
A switch sting more at the time but the strap smart longer , that 's a fact . ''
`` I shall not use anything of the sort .
I 'm not go to whip my pupil . ''
`` Bless my soul , '' exclaim Mr. Harrison in genuine astonishment , `` how do you lay out to keep order then ? ''
`` I shall govern by affection , Mr. Harrison . ''
`` It wo n't do , '' say Mr. Harrison , `` wo n't do at all , Anne .
` Spare the rod and spoil the child . '
When I go to school the master whip me regular every day because he say if I be n't in mischief just then I be plot it . ''
`` Methods have change since your schooldays , Mr. Harrison . ''
`` But human nature have n't .
Mark my word , you 'll never manage the young fry unless you keep a rod in pickle for them .
The thing be impossible . ''
`` Well , I 'm go to try my way first , '' say Anne , who have a fairly strong will of her own and be apt to cling very tenaciously to her theory .
`` You 're pretty stubborn , I reckon , '' be Mr. Harrison 's way of put it .
`` Well , well , we 'll see .
Someday when you get rile up ... and people with hair like yours be desperate apt to get riled ... you 'll forget all your pretty little notion and give some of them a whaling .
You 're too young to be teach anyhow ... far too young and childish . ''
Altogether , Anne go to bed that night in a rather pessimistic mood .
She sleep poorly and be so pale and tragic at breakfast next morning that Marilla be alarm and insist on make her take a cup of scorch ginger tea .
Anne sip it patiently , although she could not imagine what good ginger tea would do .
Had it be some magic brew , potent to confer age and experience , Anne would have swallow a quart of it without flinch .
`` Marilla , what if I fail ! ''
`` You 'll hardly fail completely in one day and there 's plenty more day come , '' say Marilla .
`` The trouble with you , Anne , be that you 'll expect to teach those child everything and reform all their fault right off , and if you ca n't you 'll think you 've fail . ''
V A Full-fledged Schoolma'am When Anne reach the school that morning ... for the first time in her life she have traverse the Birch Path deaf and blind to it beauty ... all be quiet and still .
The precede teacher have train the child to be in their place at her arrival , and when Anne enter the schoolroom she be confront by prim row of `` shin morning face '' and bright , inquisitive eye .
She hang up her hat and face her pupil , hop that she do not look a frightened and foolish a she felt and that they would not perceive how she be tremble .
She have sit up until nearly twelve the precede night compose a speech she mean to make to her pupil upon open the school .
She have revise and improve it painstakingly , and then she have learn it off by heart .
It be a very good speech and have some very fine idea in it , especially about mutual help and earnest striving after knowledge .
The only trouble be that she could not now remember a word of it .
After what seem to her a year ... about ten second in reality ... she say faintly , `` Take your Testaments , please , '' and sink breathlessly into her chair under cover of the rustle and clatter of desk lid that follow .
While the child read their verse Anne marshal her shaky wit into order and look over the array of little pilgrim to the Grownup Land .
Most of them be , of course , quite well know to her .
Her own classmate have pass out in the preceding year but the rest have all go to school with her , except the primer class and ten newcomer to Avonlea .
Anne secretly felt more interest in these ten than in those whose possibility be already fairly well map out to her .
To be sure , they might be just as commonplace a the rest ; but on the other hand there MIGHT be a genius among them .
It be a thrilling idea .
Sitting by himself at a corner desk be Anthony Pye .
He have a dark , sullen little face , and be star at Anne with a hostile expression in his black eye .
Anne instantly make up her mind that she would win that boy 's affection and discomfit the Pyes utterly .
In the other corner another strange boy be sit with Arty Sloane ... a jolly look little chap , with a snub nose , freckle face , and big , light blue eye , fringe with whitish lash ... probably the DonNELL boy ; and if resemblance go for anything , his sister be sit across the aisle with Mary Bell .
Anne wonder what sort of mother the child have , to send her to school dress a she be .
She wear a faded pink silk dress , trim with a great deal of cotton lace , soil white kid slipper , and silk stocking .
Her sandy hair be torture into innumerable kinky and unnatural curl , surmount by a flamboyant bow of pink ribbon big than her head .
Judging from her expression she be very well satisfy with herself .
A pale little thing , with smooth ripple of fine , silky , fawn-colored hair flow over her shoulder , must , Anne think , be Annetta Bell , whose parent have formerly live in the Newbridge school district , but , by reason of haul their house fifty yard north of it old site be now in Avonlea .
Three pallid little girl crowd into one seat be certainly Cottons ; and there be no doubt that the small beauty with the long brown curl and hazel eye , who be cast coquettish look at Jack Gills over the edge of her Testament , be Prillie Rogerson , whose father have recently marry a second wife and bring Prillie home from her grandmother 's in Grafton .
A tall , awkward girl in a back seat , who seem to have too many foot and hand , Anne could not place at all , but later on discover that her name be Barbara Shaw and that she have come to live with an Avonlea aunt .
She be also to find that if Barbara ever manage to walk down the aisle without fall over her own or somebody else 's foot the Avonlea scholar write the unusual fact up on the porch wall to commemorate it .
But when Anne 's eye meet those of the boy at the front desk face her own , a queer little thrill go over her , a if she have find her genius .
She know this must be Paul Irving and that Mrs. Rachel Lynde have be right for once when she prophesy that he would be unlike the Avonlea child .
More than that , Anne realize that he be unlike other child anywhere , and that there be a soul subtly akin to her own gazing at her out of the very dark blue eye that be watch her so intently .
She know Paul be ten but he look no more than eight .
He have the most beautiful little face she have ever see in a child ... feature of exquisite delicacy and refinement , frame in a halo of chestnut curl .
His mouth be delicious , be full without pout , the crimson lip just softly touch and curve into finely finish little corner that narrowly escape be dimple .
He have a sober , grave , meditative expression , a if his spirit be much old than his body ; but when Anne smile softly at him it vanish in a sudden answering smile , which seem an illumination of his whole be , a if some lamp have suddenly kindle into flame inside of him , irradiate him from top to toe .
Best of all , it be involuntary , bear of no external effort or motive , but simply the outflashing of a hidden personality , rare and fine and sweet .
With a quick interchange of smile Anne and Paul be fast friend forever before a word have pass between them .
The day go by like a dream .
Anne could never clearly recall it afterwards .
It almost seem a if it be not she who be teach but somebody else .
She hear class and work sum and set copy mechanically .
The child behave quite well ; only two case of discipline occur .
Morley Andrews be catch drive a pair of trained cricket in the aisle .
Anne stand Morley on the platform for an hour and ... which Morley felt much more keenly ... confiscate his cricket .
She put them in a box and on the way from school set them free in Violet Vale ; but Morley believe , then and ever afterwards , that she take them home and keep them for her own amusement .
The other culprit be Anthony Pye , who pour the last drop of water from his slate bottle down the back of Aurelia Clay 's neck .
Anne keep Anthony in at recess and talk to him about what be expect of gentleman , admonish him that they never pour water down lady ' neck .
She want all her boy to be gentleman , she say .
Her little lecture be quite kind and touching ; but unfortunately Anthony remain absolutely untouched .
He listen to her in silence , with the same sullen expression , and whistle scornfully a he go out .
Anne sigh ; and then cheer herself up by remember that win a Pye 's affection , like the building of Rome , be n't the work of a day .
In fact , it be doubtful whether some of the Pyes have any affection to win ; but Anne hop good thing of Anthony , who look a if he might be a rather nice boy if one ever get behind his sullenness .
When school be dismiss and the child have go Anne drop wearily into her chair .
Her head ache and she felt woefully discourage .
There be no real reason for discouragement , since nothing very dreadful have occur ; but Anne be very tired and inclined to believe that she would never learn to like teaching .
And how terrible it would be to be do something you do n't like every day for ... well , say forty year .
Anne be of two mind whether to have her cry out then and there , or wait till she be safely in her own white room at home .
Before she could decide there be a click of heel and a silken swish on the porch floor , and Anne find herself confront by a lady whose appearance make her recall a recent criticism of Mr. Harrison 's on an overdressed female he have see in a Charlottetown store .
`` She look like a head-on collision between a fashion plate and a nightmare . ''
The newcomer be gorgeously array in a pale blue summer silk , puffed , frilled , and shirr wherever puff , frill , or shirr could possibly be place .
Her head be surmount by a huge white chiffon hat , bedeck with three long but rather stringy ostrich feather .
A veil of pink chiffon , lavishly sprinkle with huge black dot , hung like a flounce from the hat brim to her shoulder and float off in two airy streamer behind her .
She wear all the jewelry that could be crowd on one small woman , and a very strong odor of perfume attend her .
`` I be Mrs. DonNELL ... Mrs. H. B. DonNELL , '' announce this vision , `` and I have come in to see you about something Clarice Almira tell me when she come home to dinner today .
It annoy me EXCESSIVELY . ''
`` I 'm sorry , '' falter Anne , vainly try to recollect any incident of the morning connect with the Donnell child .
`` Clarice Almira tell me that you pronounce our name DONnell .
Now , Miss Shirley , the correct pronunciation of our name be DonNELL ... accent on the last syllable .
I hope you 'll remember this in future . ''
`` I 'll try to , '' gasp Anne , choke back a wild desire to laugh .
`` I know by experience that it 's very unpleasant to have one 's name SPELLED wrong and I suppose it must be even bad to have it pronounce wrong . ''
`` Certainly it be .
And Clarice Almira also inform me that you call my son Jacob . ''
`` He tell me his name be Jacob , '' protest Anne .
`` I might well have expect that , '' say Mrs. H. B. Donnell , in a tone which imply that gratitude in child be not to be look for in this degenerate age .
`` That boy have such plebeian taste , Miss Shirley .
When he be bear I want to call him St. Clair ... it sound SO aristocratic , do n't it ?
But his father insist he should be call Jacob after his uncle .
I yield , because Uncle Jacob be a rich old bachelor .
And what do you think , Miss Shirley ?
When our innocent boy be five year old Uncle Jacob actually go and get marry and now he have three boy of his own .
Did you ever hear of such ingratitude ?
The moment the invitation to the wedding ... for he have the impertinence to send u an invitation , Miss Shirley ... come to the house I say , ` No more Jacobs for me , thank you . '
From that day I call my son St. Clair and St. Clair I be determine he shall be call .
His father obstinately continue to call him Jacob , and the boy himself have a perfectly unaccountable preference for the vulgar name .
But St. Clair he be and St. Clair he shall remain .
You will kindly remember this , Miss Shirley , will you not ?
THANK you .
I tell Clarice Almira that I be sure it be only a misunderstanding and that a word would set it right .
Donnell ... accent on the last syllable ... and St. Clair ... on no account Jacob .
You 'll remember ?
THANK you . ''
When Mrs. H. B. DonNELL have skim away Anne lock the school door and go home .
At the foot of the hill she find Paul Irving by the Birch Path .
He hold out to her a cluster of the dainty little wild orchid which Avonlea child call `` rice lillie . ''
`` Please , teacher , I find these in Mr. Wright 's field , '' he say shyly , `` and I come back to give them to you because I think you be the kind of lady that would like them , and because ... '' he lift his big beautiful eye ... `` I like you , teacher . ''
`` You darling , '' say Anne , take the fragrant spike .
As if Paul 's word have be a spell of magic , discouragement and weariness pass from her spirit , and hope upwelled in her heart like a dancing fountain .
She go through the Birch Path light-footedly , attend by the sweetness of her orchid a by a benediction .
`` Well , how do you get along ? ''
Marilla want to know .
`` Ask me that a month later and I may be able to tell you .
I ca n't now ... I do n't know myself ... I 'm too near it .
My thought feel a if they have be all stir up until they be thick and muddy .
The only thing I feel really sure of have accomplish today be that I teach Cliffie Wright that A be A .
He never know it before .
Is n't it something to have start a soul along a path that may end in Shakespeare and Paradise Lost ? ''
Mrs. Lynde come up later on with more encouragement .
That good lady have waylay the schoolchildren at her gate and demand of them how they like their new teacher .
`` And every one of them say they like you splendid , Anne , except Anthony Pye .
I must admit he do n't .
He say you ` be n't any good , just like all girl teacher . '
There 's the Pye leaven for you .
But never mind . ''
`` I 'm not go to mind , '' say Anne quietly , `` and I 'm go to make Anthony Pye like me yet .
Patience and kindness will surely win him . ''
`` Well , you can never tell about a Pye , '' say Mrs. Rachel cautiously .
`` They go by contrary , like dream , often a not .
As for that DonNELL woman , she 'll get no DonNELLing from me , I can assure you .
The name be DONnell and always have be .
The woman be crazy , that 's what .
She have a pug dog she call Queenie and it have it meal at the table along with the family , eat off a china plate .
I 'd be afraid of a judgment if I be her .
Thomas say Donnell himself be a sensible , hard-working man , but he have n't much gumption when he pick out a wife , that 's what . ''
VI All Sorts and Conditions of Men ... and woman A September day on Prince Edward Island hill ; a crisp wind blow up over the sand dune from the sea ; a long red road , wind through field and wood , now loop itself about a corner of thick set spruce , now thread a plantation of young maple with great feathery sheet of fern beneath them , now dip down into a hollow where a brook flash out of the wood and into them again , now bask in open sunshine between ribbon of golden-rod and smoke-blue aster ; air athrill with the piping of myriad of cricket , those glad little pensioner of the summer hill ; a plump brown pony amble along the road ; two girl behind him , full to the lip with the simple , priceless joy of youth and life .
`` Oh , this be a day leave over from Eden , be n't it , Diana ? ''
... and Anne sigh for sheer happiness .
`` The air have magic in it .
Look at the purple in the cup of the harvest valley , Diana .
And oh , do smell the die fir !
It 's come up from that little sunny hollow where Mr. Eben Wright have be cut fence pole .
Bliss be it on such a day to be alive ; but to smell die fir be very heaven .
That 's two third Wordsworth and one third Anne Shirley .
It do n't seem possible that there should be die fir in heaven , do it ?
And yet it do n't seem to me that heaven would be quite perfect if you could n't get a whiff of dead fir a you go through it wood .
Perhaps we 'll have the odor there without the death .
Yes , I think that will be the way .
That delicious aroma must be the soul of the fir ... and of course it will be just souls in heaven . ''
`` Trees have n't souls , '' say practical Diana , `` but the smell of dead fir be certainly lovely .
I 'm go to make a cushion and fill it with fir needle .
You 'd better make one too , Anne . ''
`` I think I shall ... and use it for my nap .
I 'd be certain to dream I be a dryad or a woodnymph then .
But just this minute I 'm well content to be Anne Shirley , Avonlea schoolma'am , drive over a road like this on such a sweet , friendly day . ''
`` It 's a lovely day but we have anything but a lovely task before u , '' sigh Diana .
`` Why on earth do you offer to canvas this road , Anne ?
Almost all the crank in Avonlea live along it , and we 'll probably be treat a if we be beg for ourselves .
It 's the very bad road of all . ''
`` That be why I choose it .
Of course Gilbert and Fred would have take this road if we have ask them .
But you see , Diana , I feel myself responsible for the A.V.I.S . , since I be the first to suggest it , and it seem to me that I ought to do the most disagreeable thing .
I 'm sorry on your account ; but you need n't say a word at the cranky place .
I 'll do all the talk ... Mrs. Lynde would say I be well able to .
Mrs. Lynde do n't know whether to approve of our enterprise or not .
She incline to , when she remember that Mr. and Mrs. Allan be in favor of it ; but the fact that village improvement society first originate in the States be a count against it .
So she be halt between two opinion and only success will justify u in Mrs. Lynde 's eye .
Priscilla be go to write a paper for our next Improvement meeting , and I expect it will be good , for her aunt be such a clever writer and no doubt it run in the family .
I shall never forget the thrill it give me when I find out that Mrs. Charlotte E. Morgan be Priscilla 's aunt .
It seem so wonderful that I be a friend of the girl whose aunt write ` Edgewood Days ' and ` The Rosebud Garden . ' ''
`` Where do Mrs. Morgan live ? ''
`` In Toronto .
And Priscilla say she be come to the Island for a visit next summer , and if it be possible Priscilla be go to arrange to have u meet her .
That seem almost too good to be true -- but it 's something pleasant to imagine after you go to bed . ''
The Avonlea Village Improvement Society be an organize fact .
Gilbert Blythe be president , Fred Wright vice-president , Anne Shirley secretary , and Diana Barry treasurer .
The `` Improvers , '' a they be promptly christen , be to meet once a fortnight at the home of the member .
It be admit that they could not expect to affect many improvement so late in the season ; but they mean to plan the next summer 's campaign , collect and discus idea , write and read paper , and , a Anne say , educate the public sentiment generally .
There be some disapproval , of course , and ... which the Improvers felt much more keenly ... a good deal of ridicule .
Mr. Elisha Wright be report to have say that a more appropriate name for the organization would be Courting Club .
Mrs. Hiram Sloane declare she have hear the Improvers mean to plough up all the roadside and set them out with geranium .
Mr. Levi Boulter warn his neighbor that the Improvers would insist that everybody pull down his house and rebuild it after plan approve by the society .
Mr. James Spencer send them word that he wish they would kindly shovel down the church hill .
Eben Wright tell Anne that he wish the Improvers could induce old Josiah Sloane to keep his whisker trim .
Mr. Lawrence Bell say he would whitewash his barn if nothing else would please them but he would NOT hang lace curtain in the cowstable window .
Mr. Major Spencer ask Clifton Sloane , an Improver who drive the milk to the Carmody cheese factory , if it be true that everybody would have to have his milk-stand hand-painted next summer and keep an embroidered centerpiece on it .
In spite of ... or perhaps , human nature be what it be , because of ... this , the Society go gamely to work at the only improvement they could hope to bring about that fall .
At the second meeting , in the Barry parlor , Oliver Sloane move that they start a subscription to re-shingle and paint the hall ; Julia Bell second it , with an uneasy feeling that she be do something not exactly ladylike .
Gilbert put the motion , it be carry unanimously , and Anne gravely record it in her minute .
The next thing be to appoint a committee , and Gertie Pye , determine not to let Julia Bell carry off all the laurel , boldly move that Miss Jane Andrews be chairman of say committee .
This motion be also duly seconded and carry , Jane return the compliment by appoint Gertie on the committee , along with Gilbert , Anne , Diana , and Fred Wright .
The committee choose their route in private conclave .
Anne and Diana be tell off for the Newbridge road , Gilbert and Fred for the White Sands road , and Jane and Gertie for the Carmody road .
`` Because , '' explain Gilbert to Anne , a they walk home together through the Haunted Wood , `` the Pyes all live along that road and they wo n't give a cent unless one of themselves canvass them . ''
The next Saturday Anne and Diana start out .
They drive to the end of the road and canvassed homeward , call first on the `` Andrew girl . ''
`` If Catherine be alone we may get something , '' say Diana , `` but if Eliza be there we wo n't . ''
Eliza be there ... very much so ... and look even grim than usual .
Miss Eliza be one of those people who give you the impression that life be indeed a vale of tear , and that a smile , never to speak of a laugh , be a waste of nervous energy truly reprehensible .
The Andrew girl have be `` girl '' for fifty odd year and seem likely to remain girl to the end of their earthly pilgrimage .
Catherine , it be say , have not entirely give up hope , but Eliza , who be bear a pessimist , have never have any .
They live in a little brown house build in a sunny corner scoop out of Mark Andrew 's beech wood .
Eliza complain that it be terrible hot in summer , but Catherine be wont to say it be lovely and warm in winter .
Eliza be sew patchwork , not because it be need but simply a a protest against the frivolous lace Catherine be crochet .
Eliza listen with a frown and Catherine with a smile , a the girl explain their errand .
To be sure , whenever Catherine catch Eliza 's eye she discard the smile in guilty confusion ; but it creep back the next moment .
`` If I have money to waste , '' say Eliza grimly , `` I 'd burn it up and have the fun of see a blaze maybe ; but I would n't give it to that hall , not a cent .
It 's no benefit to the settlement ... just a place for young folk to meet and carry on when they 's good be home in their bed . ''
`` Oh , Eliza , young folk must have some amusement , '' protest Catherine .
`` I do n't see the necessity .
We do n't gad about to hall and place when we be young , Catherine Andrews .
This world be get bad every day . ''
`` I think it 's get well , '' say Catherine firmly .
`` YOU think ! ''
Miss Eliza 's voice express the utmost contempt .
`` It do n't signify what you THINK , Catherine Andrews .
Facts be fact . ''
`` Well , I always like to look on the bright side , Eliza . ''
`` There be n't any bright side . ''
`` Oh , indeed there be , '' cry Anne , who could n't endure such heresy in silence .
`` Why , there be ever so many bright side , Miss Andrews .
It 's really a beautiful world . ''
`` You wo n't have such a high opinion of it when you 've live a long in it a I have , '' retort Miss Eliza sourly , `` and you wo n't be so enthusiastic about improve it either .
How be your mother , Diana ?
Dear me , but she have fail of late .
She look terrible run down .
And how long be it before Marilla expect to be stone blind , Anne ? ''
`` The doctor think her eye will not get any bad if she be very careful , '' falter Anne .
Eliza shake her head .
`` Doctors always talk like that just to keep people cheer up .
I would n't have much hope if I be her .
It 's best to be prepare for the bad . ''
`` But ought n't we be prepare for the best too ? ''
plead Anne .
`` It 's just as likely to happen a the bad . ''
`` Not in my experience , and I 've fifty-seven year to set against your sixteen , '' retort Eliza .
`` Going , be you ?
Well , I hope this new society of yours will be able to keep Avonlea from run any further down hill but I have n't much hope of it . ''
Anne and Diana get themselves thankfully out , and drive away as fast a the fat pony could go .
As they round the curve below the beech wood a plump figure come speed over Mr. Andrews ' pasture , wave to them excitedly .
It be Catherine Andrews and she be so out of breath that she could hardly speak , but she thrust a couple of quarter into Anne 's hand .
`` That 's my contribution to paint the hall , '' she gasp .
`` I 'd like to give you a dollar but I do n't dare take more from my egg money for Eliza would find it out if I do .
I 'm real interested in your society and I believe you 're go to do a lot of good .
I 'm an optimist .
I HAVE to be , live with Eliza .
I must hurry back before she miss me ... she think I 'm feed the hen .
I hope you 'll have good luck canvassing , and do n't be cast down over what Eliza say .
The world IS get well ... it certainly be . ''
The next house be Daniel Blair 's .
`` Now , it all depend on whether his wife be home or not , '' say Diana , a they jolt along a deep-rutted lane .
`` If she be we wo n't get a cent .
Everybody say Dan Blair do n't dare have his hair cut without ask her permission ; and it 's certain she 's very close , to state it moderately .
She say she have to be just before she 's generous .
But Mrs. Lynde say she 's so much ` before ' that generosity never catch up with her at all . ''
Anne relate their experience at the Blair place to Marilla that even .
`` We tie the horse and then rap at the kitchen door .
Nobody come but the door be open and we could hear somebody in the pantry , go on dreadfully .
We could n't make out the word but Diana say she know they be swear by the sound of them .
I ca n't believe that of Mr. Blair , for he be always so quiet and meek ; but at least he have great provocation , for Marilla , when that poor man come to the door , red a a beet , with perspiration stream down his face , he have on one of his wife 's big gingham apron . '
I ca n't get this durned thing off , ' he say , ` for the string be tie in a hard knot and I ca n't bust 'em , so you 'll have to excuse me , lady . '
We beg him not to mention it and go in and sit down .
Mr. Blair sit down too ; he twist the apron around to his back and roll it up , but he do look so ashamed and worry that I felt sorry for him , and Diana say she fear we have call at an inconvenient time .
` Oh , not at all , ' say Mr. Blair , try to smile ... you know he be always very polite ... ` I 'm a little busy ... get ready to bake a cake a it be .
My wife get a telegram today that her sister from Montreal be come tonight and she 's go to the train to meet her and left order for me to make a cake for tea .
She writ out the recipe and tell me what to do but I 've clean forget half the direction already .
And it say , ` flavor accord to taste . '
What do that mean ?
How can you tell ?
And what if my taste do n't happen to be other people 's taste ?
Would a tablespoon of vanilla be enough for a small layer cake ? ''
`` I felt sorrier than ever for the poor man .
He do n't seem to be in his proper sphere at all .
I have hear of henpecked husband and now I felt that I saw one .
It be on my lip to say , ` Mr. Blair , if you 'll give u a subscription for the hall I 'll mix up your cake for you . '
But I suddenly think it would n't be neighborly to drive too sharp a bargain with a fellow creature in distress .
So I offer to mix the cake for him without any condition at all .
He just jump at my offer .
He say he 'd be use to make his own bread before he be marry but he fear cake be beyond him , and yet he hat to disappoint his wife .
He get me another apron , and Diana beat the egg and I mix the cake .
Mr. Blair run about and get u the material .
He have forget all about his apron and when he run it stream out behind him and Diana say she think she would die to see it .
He say he could bake the cake all right ... he be use to that ... and then he ask for our list and he put down four dollar .
So you see we be reward .
But even if he have n't give a cent I 'd always feel that we have do a truly Christian act in help him . ''
Theodore White 's be the next stopping place .
Neither Anne nor Diana have ever be there before , and they have only a very slight acquaintance with Mrs. Theodore , who be not give to hospitality .
Should they go to the back or front door ?
While they hold a whispered consultation Mrs. Theodore appear at the front door with an armful of newspaper .
Deliberately she lay them down one by one on the porch floor and the porch step , and then down the path to the very foot of her mystified caller .
`` Will you please wipe your foot carefully on the grass and then walk on these paper ? ''
she say anxiously .
`` I 've just sweep the house all over and I ca n't have any more dust track in .
The path 's be real muddy since the rain yesterday . ''
`` Do n't you dare laugh , '' warn Anne in a whisper , a they march along the newspaper .
`` And I implore you , Diana , not to look at me , no matter what she say , or I shall not be able to keep a sober face . ''
The paper extend across the hall and into a prim , fleckless parlor .
Anne and Diana sit down gingerly on the near chair and explain their errand .
Mrs. White hear them politely , interrupt only twice , once to chase out an adventurous fly , and once to pick up a tiny wisp of grass that have fall on the carpet from Anne 's dress .
Anne felt wretchedly guilty ; but Mrs. White subscribe two dollar and pay the money down ... `` to prevent u from have to go back for it , '' Diana say when they get away .
Mrs. White have the newspaper gather up before they have their horse untied and a they drive out of the yard they saw her busily wield a broom in the hall .
`` I 've always hear that Mrs. Theodore White be the neat woman alive and I 'll believe it after this , '' say Diana , give way to her suppressed laughter as soon a it be safe .
`` I be glad she have no child , '' say Anne solemnly .
`` It would be dreadful beyond word for them if she have . ''
At the Spencers ' Mrs. Isabella Spencer make them miserable by say something ill-natured about everyone in Avonlea .
Mr. Thomas Boulter refuse to give anything because the hall , when it have be build , twenty year before , have n't be build on the site he recommend .
Mrs. Esther Bell , who be the picture of health , take half an hour to detail all her ache and pain , and sadly put down fifty cent because she would n't be there that time next year to do it ... no , she would be in her grave .
Their bad reception , however , be at Simon Fletcher 's .
When they drive into the yard they saw two face peer at them through the porch window .
But although they rap and wait patiently and persistently nobody come to the door .
Two decidedly ruffle and indignant girl drive away from Simon Fletcher 's .
Even Anne admit that she be begin to feel discourage .
But the tide turn after that .
Several Sloane homestead come next , where they get liberal subscription , and from that to the end they fare well , with only an occasional snub .
Their last place of call be at Robert Dickson 's by the pond bridge .
They stay to tea here , although they be nearly home , rather than risk offend Mrs. Dickson , who have the reputation of be a very `` touchy '' woman .
While they be there old Mrs. James White call in .
`` I 've just be down to Lorenzo 's , '' she announce .
`` He 's the proudest man in Avonlea this minute .
What do you think ?
There 's a brand new boy there ... and after seven girl that 's quite an event , I can tell you . ''
Anne prick up her ear , and when they drive away she say .
`` I 'm go straight to Lorenzo White 's . ''
`` But he live on the White Sands road and it 's quite a distance out of our way , '' protest Diana .
`` Gilbert and Fred will canvas him . ''
`` They be not go around until next Saturday and it will be too late by then , '' say Anne firmly .
`` The novelty will be wear off .
Lorenzo White be dreadfully mean but he will subscribe to ANYTHING just now .
We must n't let such a golden opportunity slip , Diana . ''
The result justify Anne 's foresight .
Mr. White meet them in the yard , beam like the sun upon an Easter day .
When Anne ask for a subscription he agree enthusiastically .
`` Certain , certain .
Just put me down for a dollar more than the high subscription you 've get . ''
`` That will be five dollar ... Mr. Daniel Blair put down four , '' say Anne , half afraid .
But Lorenzo do not flinch .
`` Five it be ... and here 's the money on the spot .
Now , I want you to come into the house .
There 's something in there worth see ... something very few people have see a yet .
Just come in and pass YOUR opinion . ''
`` What will we say if the baby be n't pretty ? ''
whisper Diana in trepidation a they follow the excited Lorenzo into the house .
`` Oh , there will certainly be something else nice to say about it , '' say Anne easily .
`` There always be about a baby . ''
The baby WAS pretty , however , and Mr. White felt that he get his five dollar ' worth of the girl ' honest delight over the plump little newcomer .
But that be the first , last , and only time that Lorenzo White ever subscribe to anything .
Anne , tire a she be , make one more effort for the public weal that night , slip over the field to interview Mr. Harrison , who be a usual smoke his pipe on the veranda with Ginger beside him .
Strickly speak he be on the Carmody road ; but Jane and Gertie , who be not acquaint with him save by doubtful report , have nervously beg Anne to canvas him .
Mr. Harrison , however , flatly refuse to subscribe a cent , and all Anne 's wile be in vain .
`` But I think you approve of our society , Mr. Harrison , '' she mourn .
`` So I do ... so I do ... but my approval do n't go as deep a my pocket , Anne . ''
`` A few more experience such a I have have today would make me a much of a pessimist a Miss Eliza Andrews , '' Anne tell her reflection in the east gable mirror at bedtime .
VII The Pointing of Duty Anne lean back in her chair one mild October evening and sigh .
She be sit at a table cover with text book and exercise , but the closely write sheet of paper before her have no apparent connection with study or school work .
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask Gilbert , who have arrive at the open kitchen door just in time to hear the sigh .
Anne color , and thrust her write out of sight under some school composition .
`` Nothing very dreadful .
I be just try to write out some of my thought , a Professor Hamilton advise me , but I could n't get them to please me .
They seem so still and foolish directly they 're write down on white paper with black ink .
Fancies be like shadow ... you ca n't cage them , they 're such wayward , dance thing .
But perhaps I 'll learn the secret some day if I keep on try .
I have n't a great many spare moment , you know .
By the time I finish correct school exercise and composition , I do n't always feel like write any of my own . ''
`` You be get on splendidly in school , Anne .
All the child like you , '' say Gilbert , sit down on the stone step .
`` No , not all .
Anthony Pye do n't and WO N'T like me .
What be bad , he do n't respect me ... no , he do n't .
He simply hold me in contempt and I do n't mind confess to you that it worry me miserably .
It be n't that he be so very bad ... he be only rather mischievous , but no bad than some of the others .
He seldom disobey me ; but he obey with a scornful air of toleration a if it be n't worthwhile dispute the point or he would ... and it have a bad effect on the others .
I 've try every way to win him but I 'm begin to fear I never shall .
I want to , for he 's rather a cute little lad , if he IS a Pye , and I could like him if he 'd let me . ''
`` Probably it 's merely the effect of what he hear at home . ''
`` Not altogether .
Anthony be an independent little chap and make up his own mind about thing .
He have always go to men before and he say girl teacher be no good .
Well , we 'll see what patience and kindness will do .
I like overcome difficulty and teaching be really very interesting work .
Paul Irving make up for all that be lack in the others .
That child be a perfect darling , Gilbert , and a genius into the bargain .
I 'm persuade the world will hear of him some day , '' conclude Anne in a tone of conviction .
`` I like teach , too , '' say Gilbert .
`` It 's good training , for one thing .
Why , Anne , I 've learn more in the week I 've be teach the young idea of White Sands than I learn in all the year I go to school myself .
We all seem to be get on pretty well .
The Newbridge people like Jane , I hear ; and I think White Sands be tolerably satisfied with your humble servant ... all except Mr. Andrew Spencer .
I meet Mrs. Peter Blewett on my way home last night and she tell me she think it her duty to inform me that Mr. Spencer do n't approve of my method . ''
`` Have you ever notice , '' ask Anne reflectively , `` that when people say it be their duty to tell you a certain thing you may prepare for something disagreeable ?
Why be it that they never seem to think it a duty to tell you the pleasant thing they hear about you ?
Mrs. H. B. DonNELL call at the school again yesterday and tell me she think it HER duty to inform me that Mrs. Harmon Andrew do n't approve of my reading fairy tale to the child , and that Mr. Rogerson think Prillie be n't come on fast enough in arithmetic .
If Prillie would spend less time make eye at the boy over her slate she might do good .
I feel quite sure that Jack Gillis work her class sum for her , though I 've never be able to catch him red-handed . ''
`` Have you succeed in reconcile Mrs. DonNELL 's hopeful son to his saintly name ? ''
`` Yes , '' laugh Anne , `` but it be really a difficult task .
At first , when I call him ` St. Clair ' he would not take the least notice until I 'd speak two or three time ; and then , when the other boy nudge him , he would look up with such an aggrieved air , a if I 'd call him John or Charlie and he could n't be expect to know I mean him .
So I keep him in after school one night and talk kindly to him .
I tell him his mother wish me to call him St. Clair and I could n't go against her wish .
He saw it when it be all explain out ... he 's really a very reasonable little fellow ... and he say I could call him St. Clair but that he 'd ` lick the stuffing ' out of any of the boy that try it .
Of course , I have to rebuke him again for use such shocking language .
Since then I call him St. Clair and the boy call him Jake and all go smoothly .
He inform me that he mean to be a carpenter , but Mrs. DonNELL say I be to make a college professor out of him . ''
The mention of college give a new direction to Gilbert 's thought , and they talk for a time of their plan and wish ... gravely , earnestly , hopefully , a youth love to talk , while the future be yet an untrodden path full of wonderful possibility .
Gilbert have finally make up his mind that he be go to be a doctor .
`` It 's a splendid profession , '' he say enthusiastically .
`` A fellow have to fight something all through life ... do n't somebody once define man a a fight animal ?
... and I want to fight disease and pain and ignorance ... which be all member one of another .
I want to do my share of honest , real work in the world , Anne ... add a little to the sum of human knowledge that all the good men have be accumulate since it begin .
The folk who live before me have do so much for me that I want to show my gratitude by do something for the folk who will live after me .
It seem to me that be the only way a fellow can get square with his obligation to the race . ''
`` I 'd like to add some beauty to life , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` I do n't exactly want to make people KNOW more ... though I know that IS the noble ambition ... but I 'd love to make them have a pleasanter time because of me ... to have some little joy or happy thought that would never have exist if I have n't be bear . ''
`` I think you 're fulfil that ambition every day , '' say Gilbert admiringly .
And he be right .
Anne be one of the child of light by birthright .
After she have pass through a life with a smile or a word throw across it like a gleam of sunshine the owner of that life saw it , for the time be at least , a hopeful and lovely and of good report .
Finally Gilbert rise regretfully .
`` Well , I must run up to MacPhersons ' .
Moody Spurgeon come home from Queen 's today for Sunday and he be to bring me out a book Professor Boyd be lend me . ''
`` And I must get Marilla 's tea .
She go to see Mrs. Keith this evening and she will soon be back . ''
Anne have tea ready when Marilla come home ; the fire be crackle cheerily , a vase of frost-bleached fern and ruby-red maple leaf adorn the table , and delectable odor of ham and toast pervade the air .
But Marilla sink into her chair with a deep sigh .
`` Are your eye trouble you ?
Does your head ache ? ''
query Anne anxiously .
`` No .
I 'm only tired ... and worry .
It 's about Mary and those child ... Mary be bad ... she ca n't last much long .
And a for the twin , I do n't know what be to become of them . ''
`` Has n't their uncle be hear from ? ''
`` Yes , Mary have a letter from him .
He 's work in a lumber camp and ` shack it , ' whatever that mean .
Anyway , he say he ca n't possibly take the child till the spring .
He expect to be marry then and will have a home to take them to ; but he say she must get some of the neighbor to keep them for the winter .
She say she ca n't bear to ask any of them .
Mary never get on any too well with the East Grafton people and that 's a fact .
And the long and short of it be , Anne , that I 'm sure Mary want me to take those child ... she do n't say so but she LOOKED it . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Anne clasp her hand , all athrill with excitement .
`` And of course you will , Marilla , wo n't you ? ''
`` I have n't make up my mind , '' say Marilla rather tartly .
`` I do n't rush into thing in your headlong way , Anne .
Third cousinship be a pretty slim claim .
And it will be a fearful responsibility to have two child of six year to look after ... twin , at that . ''
Marilla have an idea that twin be just twice as bad a single child .
`` Twins be very interesting ... at least one pair of them , '' say Anne .
`` It 's only when there be two or three pair that it get monotonous .
And I think it would be real nice for you to have something to amuse you when I 'm away in school . ''
`` I do n't reckon there 'd be much amusement in it ... more worry and bother than anything else , I should say .
It would n't be so risky if they be even as old a you be when I take you .
I would n't mind Dora so much ... she seem good and quiet .
But that Davy be a limb . ''
Anne be fond of child and her heart yearn over the Keith twin .
The remembrance of her own neglected childhood be very vivid with her still .
She know that Marilla 's only vulnerable point be her stern devotion to what she believe to be her duty , and Anne skillfully marshal her argument along this line .
`` If Davy be naughty it 's all the more reason why he should have good training , be n't it , Marilla ?
If we do n't take them we do n't know who will , nor what kind of influence may surround them .
Suppose Mrs. Keith 's next door neighbor , the Sprotts , be to take them .
Mrs. Lynde say Henry Sprott be the most profane man that ever live and you ca n't believe a word his child say .
Would n't it be dreadful to have the twin learn anything like that ?
Or suppose they go to the Wiggins ' .
Mrs. Lynde say that Mr. Wiggins sell everything off the place that can be sell and bring his family up on skim milk .
You would n't like your relation to be starve , even if they be only third cousin , would you ?
It seem to me , Marilla , that it be our duty to take them . ''
`` I suppose it be , '' assent Marilla gloomily .
`` I daresay I 'll tell Mary I 'll take them .
You need n't look so delighted , Anne .
It will mean a good deal of extra work for you .
I ca n't sew a stitch on account of my eye , so you 'll have to see to the making and mending of their clothes .
And you do n't like sew . ''
`` I hate it , '' say Anne calmly , `` but if you be willing to take those child from a sense of duty surely I can do their sewing from a sense of duty .
It do people good to have to do thing they do n't like ... in moderation . ''
VIII Marilla Adopts Twins Mrs. Rachel Lynde be sit at her kitchen window , knit a quilt , just a she have be sit one even several year previously when Matthew Cuthbert have drive down over the hill with what Mrs. Rachel call `` his import orphan . ''
But that have be in springtime ; and this be late autumn , and all the wood be leafless and the field sere and brown .
The sun be just set with a great deal of purple and golden pomp behind the dark wood west of Avonlea when a buggy drawn by a comfortable brown nag come down the hill .
Mrs. Rachel peer at it eagerly .
`` There 's Marilla get home from the funeral , '' she say to her husband , who be lie on the kitchen lounge .
Thomas Lynde lay more on the lounge nowadays than he have be use to do , but Mrs. Rachel , who be so sharp at notice anything beyond her own household , have not a yet notice this .
`` And she 's get the twin with her , ... yes , there 's Davy leaning over the dashboard grabbing at the pony 's tail and Marilla jerk him back .
Dora 's sit up on the seat as prim a you please .
She always look a if she 'd just be starch and iron .
Well , poor Marilla be go to have her hand full this winter and no mistake .
Still , I do n't see that she could do anything less than take them , under the circumstance , and she 'll have Anne to help her .
Anne 's tickle to death over the whole business , and she have a real knacky way with child , I must say .
Dear me , it do n't seem a day since poor Matthew bring Anne herself home and everybody laugh at the idea of Marilla bring up a child .
And now she have adopt twin .
You 're never safe from be surprise till you 're dead . ''
The fat pony jog over the bridge in Lynde 's Hollow and along the Green Gables lane .
Marilla 's face be rather grim .
It be ten mile from East Grafton and Davy Keith seem to be possess with a passion for perpetual motion .
It be beyond Marilla 's power to make him sit still and she have be in an agony the whole way lest he fall over the back of the wagon and break his neck , or tumble over the dashboard under the pony 's heel .
In despair she finally threaten to whip him soundly when she get him home .
Whereupon Davy climb into her lap , regardless of the rein , fling his chubby arm about her neck and give her a bear-like hug .
`` I do n't believe you mean it , '' he say , smack her wrinkled cheek affectionately .
`` You do n't LOOK like a lady who 'd whip a little boy just 'cause he could n't keep still .
Did n't you find it awful hard to keep still when you be only 's old a me ? ''
`` No , I always keep still when I be tell , '' say Marilla , try to speak sternly , albeit she felt her heart wax soft within her under Davy 's impulsive caress .
`` Well , I s ` pose that be 'cause you be a girl , '' say Davy , squirm back to his place after another hug .
`` You WAS a girl once , I s ` pose , though it 's awful funny to think of it .
Dora can sit still ... but there ai n't much fun in it I do n't think .
Seems to me it must be slow to be a girl .
Here , Dora , let me liven you up a bit . ''
Davy 's method of `` liven up '' be to grasp Dora 's curl in his finger and give them a tug .
Dora shriek and then cry .
`` How can you be such a naughty boy and your poor mother just lay in her grave this very day ? ''
demand Marilla despairingly .
`` But she be glad to die , '' say Davy confidentially .
`` I know , 'cause she tell me so .
She be awful tired of be sick .
We 'd a long talk the night before she die .
She tell me you be go to take me and Dora for the winter and I be to be a good boy .
I 'm go to be good , but ca n't you be good run round just as well a sit still ?
And she say I be always to be kind to Dora and stand up for her , and I 'm go to . ''
`` Do you call pull her hair be kind to her ? ''
`` Well , I ai n't go to let anybody else pull it , '' say Davy , double up his fist and frowning .
`` They 'd just well try it .
I do n't hurt her much ... she just cry 'cause she 's a girl .
I 'm glad I 'm a boy but I 'm sorry I 'm a twin .
When Jimmy Sprott 's sister conterdicks him he just say , ` I 'm oldern you , so of course I know well , ' and that settle HER .
But I ca n't tell Dora that , and she just go on think diffrunt from me .
You might let me drive the gee-gee for a spell , since I 'm a man . ''
Altogether , Marilla be a thankful woman when she drive into her own yard , where the wind of the autumn night be dance with the brown leaf .
Anne be at the gate to meet them and lift the twin out .
Dora submit calmly to be kiss , but Davy respond to Anne 's welcome with one of his hearty hug and the cheerful announcement , `` I 'm Mr. Davy Keith . ''
At the supper table Dora behave like a little lady , but Davy 's manner leave much to be desire .
`` I 'm so hungry I ai n't get time to eat p ` litely , '' he say when Marilla reprove him .
`` Dora ai n't half as hungry a I be .
Look at all the ex ` cise I take on the road here .
That cake 's awful nice and plummy .
We have n't have any cake at home for ever 'n ever so long , 'cause mother be too sick to make it and Mrs. Sprott say it be as much a she could do to bake our bread for u .
And Mrs. Wiggins never put any plum in HER cake .
Catch her !
Can I have another piece ? ''
Marilla would have refuse but Anne cut a generous second slice .
However , she remind Davy that he ought to say `` Thank you '' for it .
Davy merely grin at her and take a huge bite .
When he have finish the slice he say , `` If you 'll give me ANOTHER piece I 'll say thank you for IT . ''
`` No , you have have plenty of cake , '' say Marilla in a tone which Anne know and Davy be to learn to be final .
Davy wink at Anne , and then , lean over the table , snatch Dora 's first piece of cake , from which she have just take one dainty little bite , out of her very finger and , open his mouth to the full extent , cram the whole slice in .
Dora 's lip tremble and Marilla be speechless with horror .
Anne promptly exclaim , with her best `` schoolma'am '' air , `` Oh , Davy , gentleman do n't do thing like that . ''
`` I know they do n't , '' say Davy , as soon a he could speak , `` but I ai n't a gemplum . ''
`` But do n't you want to be ? ''
say shocked Anne .
`` Course I do .
But you ca n't be a gemplum till you grow up . ''
`` Oh , indeed you can , '' Anne hasten to say , think she saw a chance to sow good seed betimes .
`` You can begin to be a gentleman when you be a little boy .
And gentleman NEVER snatch thing from lady ... or forget to say thank you ... or pull anybody 's hair . ''
`` They do n't have much fun , that 's a fact , '' say Davy frankly .
`` I guess I 'll wait till I 'm grow up to be one . ''
Marilla , with a resigned air , have cut another piece of cake for Dora .
She do not feel able to cope with Davy just then .
It have be a hard day for her , what with the funeral and the long drive .
At that moment she look forward to the future with a pessimism that would have do credit to Eliza Andrews herself .
The twin be not noticeably alike , although both be fair .
Dora have long sleek curl that never get out of order .
Davy have a crop of fuzzy little yellow ringlet all over his round head .
Dora 's hazel eye be gentle and mild ; Davy 's be a roguish and dance a an elf 's .
Dora 's nose be straight , Davy 's a positive snub ; Dora have a `` prune and prism '' mouth , Davy 's be all smile ; and besides , he have a dimple in one cheek and none in the other , which give him a dear , comical , lopsided look when he laugh .
Mirth and mischief lurk in every corner of his little face .
`` They 'd better go to bed , '' say Marilla , who think it be the easy way to dispose of them .
`` Dora will sleep with me and you can put Davy in the west gable .
You 're not afraid to sleep alone , be you , Davy ? ''
`` No ; but I ai n't go to bed for ever so long yet , '' say Davy comfortably .
`` Oh , yes , you be . ''
That be all the much-tried Marilla say , but something in her tone squelch even Davy .
He trot obediently upstairs with Anne .
`` When I 'm grow up the very first thing I 'm go to do be stay up ALL night just to see what it would be like , '' he tell her confidentially .
In after year Marilla never think of that first week of the twin ' sojourn at Green Gables without a shiver .
Not that it really be so much bad than the week that follow it ; but it seem so by reason of it novelty .
There be seldom a wake minute of any day when Davy be not in mischief or devise it ; but his first notable exploit occur two day after his arrival , on Sunday morning ... a fine , warm day , a hazy and mild a September .
Anne dress him for church while Marilla attend to Dora .
Davy at first object strongly to have his face wash .
`` Marilla wash it yesterday ... and Mrs. Wiggins scour me with hard soap the day of the funeral .
That 's enough for one week .
I do n't see the good of be so awful clean .
It 's lot more comfable be dirty . ''
`` Paul Irving wash his face every day of his own accord , '' say Anne astutely .
Davy have be an inmate of Green Gables for little over forty-eight hour ; but he already worship Anne and hat Paul Irving , whom he have hear Anne praise enthusiastically the day after his arrival .
If Paul Irving wash his face every day , that settle it .
He , Davy Keith , would do it too , if it kill him .
The same consideration induce him to submit meekly to the other detail of his toilet , and he be really a handsome little lad when all be do .
Anne felt an almost maternal pride in him a she lead him into the old Cuthbert pew .
Davy behave quite well at first , be occupy in cast covert glance at all the small boy within view and wonder which be Paul Irving .
The first two hymn and the Scripture reading pass off uneventfully .
Mr. Allan be pray when the sensation come .
Lauretta White be sit in front of Davy , her head slightly bent and her fair hair hang in two long braid , between which a tempting expanse of white neck show , encase in a loose lace frill .
Lauretta be a fat , placid-looking child of eight , who have conduct herself irreproachably in church from the very first day her mother carry her there , an infant of six month .
Davy thrust his hand into his pocket and produce ... a caterpillar , a furry , squirm caterpillar .
Marilla saw and clutch at him but she be too late .
Davy drop the caterpillar down Lauretta 's neck .
Right into the middle of Mr. Allan 's prayer burst a series of pierce shriek .
The minister stop appalled and open his eye .
Every head in the congregation fly up .
Lauretta White be dance up and down in her pew , clutch frantically at the back of her dress .
`` Ow ... mommer ... mommer ... ow ... take it off ... ow ... get it out ... ow ... that bad boy put it down my neck ... ow ... mommer ... it 's go far down ... ow ... ow ... ow ... '' Mrs. White rise and with a set face carry the hysterical , writhe Lauretta out of church .
Her shriek die away in the distance and Mr. Allan proceed with the service .
But everybody felt that it be a failure that day .
For the first time in her life Marilla take no notice of the text and Anne sit with scarlet cheek of mortification .
When they get home Marilla put Davy to bed and make him stay there for the rest of the day .
She would not give him any dinner but allow him a plain tea of bread and milk .
Anne carry it to him and sit sorrowfully by him while he eat it with an unrepentant relish .
But Anne 's mournful eye trouble him .
`` I s ` pose , '' he say reflectively , `` that Paul Irving would n't have drop a caterpillar down a girl 's neck in church , would he ? ''
`` Indeed he would n't , '' say Anne sadly .
`` Well , I 'm kind of sorry I do it , then , '' concede Davy .
`` But it be such a jolly big caterpillar ... I pick him up on the church step just a we go in .
It seem a pity to waste him .
And say , be n't it fun to hear that girl yell ? ''
Tuesday afternoon the Aid Society meet at Green Gables .
Anne hurry home from school , for she know that Marilla would need all the assistance she could give .
Dora , neat and proper , in her nicely starch white dress and black sash , be sit with the member of the Aid in the parlor , speak demurely when speak to , keep silence when not , and in every way comport herself a a model child .
Davy , blissfully dirty , be make mud pie in the barnyard .
`` I tell him he might , '' say Marilla wearily .
`` I think it would keep him out of bad mischief .
He can only get dirty at that .
We 'll have our tea over before we call him to his .
Dora can have hers with u , but I would never dare to let Davy sit down at the table with all the Aids here . ''
When Anne go to call the Aids to tea she find that Dora be not in the parlor .
Mrs. Jasper Bell say Davy have come to the front door and call her out .
A hasty consultation with Marilla in the pantry result in a decision to let both child have their tea together later on .
Tea be half over when the dining room be invade by a forlorn figure .
Marilla and Anne star in dismay , the Aids in amazement .
Could that be Dora ... that sob nondescript in a drenched , drip dress and hair from which the water be stream on Marilla 's new coin-spot rug ?
`` Dora , what have happen to you ? ''
cry Anne , with a guilty glance at Mrs. Jasper Bell , whose family be say to be the only one in the world in which accident never occur .
`` Davy make me walk the pigpen fence , '' wail Dora .
`` I do n't want to but he call me a fraid-cat .
And I fell off into the pigpen and my dress get all dirty and the pig runned right over me .
My dress be just awful but Davy say if I 'd stand under the pump he 'd wash it clean , and I do and he pump water all over me but my dress ai n't a bit clean and my pretty sash and shoe be all spoil . ''
Anne do the honor of the table alone for the rest of the meal while Marilla go upstairs and redress Dora in her old clothes .
Davy be catch and send to bed without any supper .
Anne go to his room at twilight and talk to him seriously ... a method in which she have great faith , not altogether unjustified by result .
She tell him she felt very badly over his conduct .
`` I feel sorry now myself , '' admit Davy , `` but the trouble be I never feel sorry for do thing till after I 've do them .
Dora would n't help me make pie , cause she be afraid of mess her clo'es and that make me hop mad .
I s ` pose Paul Irving would n't have make HIS sister walk a pigpen fence if he know she 'd fall in ? ''
`` No , he would never dream of such a thing .
Paul be a perfect little gentleman . ''
Davy screw his eye tight shut and seem to meditate on this for a time .
Then he crawl up and put his arm about Anne 's neck , snuggle his flushed little face down on her shoulder .
`` Anne , do n't you like me a little bit , even if I ai n't a good boy like Paul ? ''
`` Indeed I do , '' say Anne sincerely .
Somehow , it be impossible to help like Davy .
`` But I 'd like you good still if you be n't so naughty . ''
`` I ... do something else today , '' go on Davy in a muffled voice .
`` I 'm sorry now but I 'm awful scar to tell you .
You wo n't be very cross , will you ?
And you wo n't tell Marilla , will you ? ''
`` I do n't know , Davy .
Perhaps I ought to tell her .
But I think I can promise you I wo n't if you promise me that you will never do it again , whatever it be . ''
`` No , I never will .
Anyhow , it 's not likely I 'd find any more of them this year .
I find this one on the cellar step . ''
`` Davy , what be it you 've do ? ''
`` I put a toad in Marilla 's bed .
You can go and take it out if you like .
But say , Anne , would n't it be fun to leave it there ? ''
`` Davy Keith ! ''
Anne sprang from Davy 's clinging arm and flew across the hall to Marilla 's room .
The bed be slightly rumple .
She throw back the blanket in nervous haste and there in very truth be the toad , blink at her from under a pillow .
`` How can I carry that awful thing out ? ''
moan Anne with a shudder .
The fire shovel suggest itself to her and she creep down to get it while Marilla be busy in the pantry .
Anne have her own trouble carry that toad downstairs , for it hop off the shovel three time and once she think she have lose it in the hall .
When she finally deposit it in the cherry orchard she draw a long breath of relief .
`` If Marilla know she 'd never feel safe get into bed again in her life .
I 'm so glad that little sinner repent in time .
There 's Diana signal to me from her window .
I 'm glad ... I really feel the need of some diversion , for what with Anthony Pye in school and Davy Keith at home my nerve have have about all they can endure for one day . ''
IX A Question of Color `` That old nuisance of a Rachel Lynde be here again today , pester me for a subscription towards buy a carpet for the vestry room , '' say Mr. Harrison wrathfully .
`` I detest that woman more than anybody I know .
She can put a whole sermon , text , comment , and application , into six word , and throw it at you like a brick . ''
Anne , who be perch on the edge of the veranda , enjoy the charm of a mild west wind blow across a newly plough field on a gray November twilight and pip a quaint little melody among the twisted fir below the garden , turn her dreamy face over her shoulder .
`` The trouble be , you and Mrs. Lynde do n't understand one another , '' she explain .
`` That be always what be wrong when people do n't like each other .
I do n't like Mrs. Lynde at first either ; but as soon a I come to understand her I learn to . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde may be an acquire taste with some folk ; but I do n't keep on eat banana because I be tell I 'd learn to like them if I do , '' growl Mr. Harrison .
`` And a for understand her , I understand that she be a confirmed busybody and I tell her so . ''
`` Oh , that must have hurt her feeling very much , '' say Anne reproachfully .
`` How could you say such a thing ?
I say some dreadful thing to Mrs. Lynde long ago but it be when I have lose my temper .
I could n't say them DELIBERATELY . ''
`` It be the truth and I believe in tell the truth to everybody . ''
`` But you do n't tell the whole truth , '' object Anne .
`` You only tell the disagreeable part of the truth .
Now , you 've tell me a dozen time that my hair be red , but you 've never once tell me that I have a nice nose . ''
`` I daresay you know it without any telling , '' chuckle Mr. Harrison .
`` I know I have red hair too ... although it 's MUCH dark than it use to be ... so there 's no need of tell me that either . ''
`` Well , well , I 'll try and not mention it again since you 're so sensitive .
You must excuse me , Anne .
I 've get a habit of be outspoken and folk must n't mind it . ''
`` But they ca n't help mind it .
And I do n't think it 's any help that it 's your habit .
What would you think of a person who go about stick pin and needle into people and say , ` Excuse me , you must n't mind it ... it 's just a habit I 've get . '
You 'd think he be crazy , would n't you ?
And a for Mrs. Lynde be a busybody , perhaps she be .
But do you tell her she have a very kind heart and always help the poor , and never say a word when Timothy Cotton steal a crock of butter out of her dairy and tell his wife he 'd buy it from her ?
Mrs. Cotton cast it up to her the next time they meet that it taste of turnip and Mrs. Lynde just say she be sorry it have turn out so poorly . ''
`` I suppose she have some good quality , '' concede Mr. Harrison grudgingly .
`` Most folk have .
I have some myself , though you might never suspect it .
But anyhow I ai n't go to give anything to that carpet .
Folks be everlasting beg for money here , it seem to me .
How 's your project of paint the hall come on ? ''
`` Splendidly .
We have a meeting of the A.V.I.S . last Friday night and find that we have plenty of money subscribe to paint the hall and shingle the roof too .
MOST people give very liberally , Mr. Harrison . ''
Anne be a sweet-souled lass , but she could instill some venom into innocent italic when occasion require .
`` What color be you go to have it ? ''
`` We have decide on a very pretty green .
The roof will be dark red , of course .
Mr. Roger Pye be go to get the paint in town today . ''
`` Who 's get the job ? ''
`` Mr. Joshua Pye of Carmody .
He have nearly finish the shingling .
We have to give him the contract , for every one of the Pyes ... and there be four family , you know ... say they would n't give a cent unless Joshua get it .
They have subscribe twelve dollar between them and we think that be too much to lose , although some people think we should n't have give in to the Pyes .
Mrs. Lynde say they try to run everything . ''
`` The main question be will this Joshua do his work well .
If he do I do n't see that it matter whether his name be Pye or Pudding . ''
`` He have the reputation of be a good workman , though they say he 's a very peculiar man .
He hardly ever talk . ''
`` He 's peculiar enough all right then , '' say Mr. Harrison drily .
`` Or at least , folk here will call him so .
I never be much of a talker till I come to Avonlea and then I have to begin in self-defense or Mrs. Lynde would have say I be dumb and start a subscription to have me taught sign language .
You 're not go yet , Anne ? ''
`` I must .
I have some sewing to do for Dora this evening .
Besides , Davy be probably break Marilla 's heart with some new mischief by this time .
This morning the first thing he say be , ` Where do the dark go , Anne ?
I want to know . '
I tell him it go around to the other side of the world but after breakfast he declare it do n't ... that it go down the well .
Marilla say she catch him hang over the well-box four time today , try to reach down to the dark . ''
`` He 's a limb , '' declare Mr. Harrison .
`` He come over here yesterday and pull six feather out of Ginger 's tail before I could get in from the barn .
The poor bird have be mop ever since .
Those child must be a sight of trouble to you folk . ''
`` Everything that 's worth have be some trouble , '' say Anne , secretly resolve to forgive Davy 's next offence , whatever it might be , since he have avenge her on Ginger .
Mr. Roger Pye bring the hall paint home that night and Mr. Joshua Pye , a surly , taciturn man , begin paint the next day .
He be not disturb in his task .
The hall be situate on what be call `` the low road . ''
In late autumn this road be always muddy and wet , and people go to Carmody travel by the long `` upper '' road .
The hall be so closely surround by fir wood that it be invisible unless you be near it .
Mr. Joshua Pye paint away in the solitude and independence that be so dear to his unsociable heart .
Friday afternoon he finish his job and go home to Carmody .
Soon after his departure Mrs. Rachel Lynde drove by , have brave the mud of the low road out of curiosity to see what the hall look like in it new coat of paint .
When she round the spruce curve she saw .
The sight affect Mrs. Lynde oddly .
She drop the rein , hold up her hand , and say `` Gracious Providence ! ''
She star a if she could not believe her eye .
Then she laugh almost hysterically .
`` There must be some mistake ... there must .
I know those Pyes would make a mess of thing . ''
Mrs. Lynde drive home , meet several people on the road and stop to tell them about the hall .
The news fly like wildfire .
Gilbert Blythe , pore over a text book at home , hear it from his father 's hired boy at sunset , and rush breathlessly to Green Gables , join on the way by Fred Wright .
They find Diana Barry , Jane Andrews , and Anne Shirley , despair personify , at the yard gate of Green Gables , under the big leafless willow .
`` It be n't true surely , Anne ? ''
exclaim Gilbert .
`` It be true , '' answer Anne , look like the muse of tragedy .
`` Mrs. Lynde call on her way from Carmody to tell me .
Oh , it be simply dreadful !
What be the use of try to improve anything ? ''
`` What be dreadful ? ''
ask Oliver Sloane , arrive at this moment with a bandbox he have bring from town for Marilla .
`` Have n't you hear ? ''
say Jane wrathfully .
`` Well , it simply this ... Joshua Pye have go and paint the hall blue instead of green ... a deep , brilliant blue , the shade they use for paint cart and wheelbarrow .
And Mrs. Lynde say it be the most hideous color for a building , especially when combine with a red roof , that she ever saw or imagine .
You could simply have knock me down with a feather when I hear it .
It 's heartbreaking , after all the trouble we 've have . ''
`` How on earth could such a mistake have happen ? ''
wail Diana .
The blame of this unmerciful disaster be eventually narrow down to the Pyes .
The Improvers have decide to use Morton-Harris paint and the Morton-Harris paint can be number accord to a color card .
A purchaser choose his shade on the card and order by the accompany number .
Number 147 be the shade of green desire and when Mr. Roger Pye send word to the Improvers by his son , John Andrew , that he be go to town and would get their paint for them , the Improvers tell John Andrew to tell his father to get 147 .
John Andrew always aver that he do so , but Mr. Roger Pye a stanchly declare that John Andrew tell him 157 ; and there the matter stand to this day .
That night there be blank dismay in every Avonlea house where an Improver live .
The gloom at Green Gables be so intense that it quench even Davy .
Anne wept and would not be comfort .
`` I must cry , even if I be almost seventeen , Marilla , '' she sob .
`` It be so mortifying .
And it sound the death knell of our society .
We 'll simply be laugh out of existence . ''
In life , a in dream , however , thing often go by contrary .
The Avonlea people do not laugh ; they be too angry .
Their money have go to paint the hall and consequently they felt themselves bitterly aggrieve by the mistake .
Public indignation center on the Pyes .
Roger Pye and John Andrew have bungle the matter between them ; and a for Joshua Pye , he must be a born fool not to suspect there be something wrong when he open the can and saw the color of the paint .
Joshua Pye , when thus animadvert upon , retort that the Avonlea taste in color be no business of his , whatever his private opinion might be ; he have be hire to paint the hall , not to talk about it ; and he mean to have his money for it .
The Improvers pay him his money in bitterness of spirit , after consult Mr. Peter Sloane , who be a magistrate .
`` You 'll have to pay it , '' Peter tell him .
`` You ca n't hold him responsible for the mistake , since he claim he be never tell what the color be suppose to be but just give the can and tell to go ahead .
But it 's a burning shame and that hall certainly do look awful . ''
The luckless Improvers expect that Avonlea would be more prejudiced than ever against them ; but instead , public sympathy veer around in their favor .
People think the eager , enthusiastic little band who have work so hard for their object have be badly use .
Mrs. Lynde tell them to keep on and show the Pyes that there really be people in the world who could do thing without make a muddle of them .
Mr. Major Spencer send them word that he would clean out all the stump along the road front of his farm and seed it down with grass at his own expense ; and Mrs. Hiram Sloane call at the school one day and beckon Anne mysteriously out into the porch to tell her that if the `` Sassiety '' want to make a geranium bed at the crossroad in the spring they need n't be afraid of her cow , for she would see that the marauding animal be keep within safe bound .
Even Mr. Harrison chuckle , if he chuckle at all , in private , and be all sympathy outwardly .
`` Never mind , Anne .
Most paint fade uglier every year but that blue be as ugly a it can be to begin with , so it 's bind to fade prettier .
And the roof be shingle and paint all right .
Folks will be able to sit in the hall after this without be leak on .
You 've accomplish so much anyhow . ''
`` But Avonlea 's blue hall will be a byword in all the neighboring settlement from this time out , '' say Anne bitterly .
And it must be confess that it be .
X Davy in Search of a Sensation Anne , walk home from school through the Birch Path one November afternoon , felt convinced afresh that life be a very wonderful thing .
The day have be a good day ; all have go well in her little kingdom .
St. Clair Donnell have not fight any of the other boy over the question of his name ; Prillie Rogerson 's face have be so puffed up from the effect of toothache that she do not once try to coquette with the boy in her vicinity .
Barbara Shaw have meet with only ONE accident ... spill a dipper of water over the floor ... and Anthony Pye have not be in school at all .
`` What a nice month this November have be ! ''
say Anne , who have never quite get over her childish habit of talk to herself .
`` November be usually such a disagreeable month ... a if the year have suddenly find out that she be grow old and could do nothing but weep and fret over it .
This year be grow old gracefully ... just like a stately old lady who know she can be charm even with gray hair and wrinkle .
We 've have lovely day and delicious twilight .
This last fortnight have be so peaceful , and even Davy have be almost well-behaved .
I really think he be improve a great deal .
How quiet the wood be today ... not a murmur except that soft wind purring in the treetop !
It sound like surf on a faraway shore .
How dear the wood be !
You beautiful tree !
I love every one of you a a friend . ''
Anne pause to throw her arm about a slim young birch and kiss it cream-white trunk .
Diana , round a curve in the path , saw her and laugh .
`` Anne Shirley , you 're only pretend to be grow up .
I believe when you 're alone you 're a much a little girl a you ever be . ''
`` Well , one ca n't get over the habit of be a little girl all at once , '' say Anne gaily .
`` You see , I be little for fourteen year and I 've only be grown-uppish for scarcely three .
I 'm sure I shall always feel like a child in the wood .
These walk home from school be almost the only time I have for dream ... except the half-hour or so before I go to sleep .
I 'm so busy with teaching and studying and help Marilla with the twin that I have n't another moment for imagine thing .
You do n't know what splendid adventure I have for a little while after I go to bed in the east gable every night .
I always imagine I 'm something very brilliant and triumphant and splendid ... a great prima donna or a Red Cross nurse or a queen .
Last night I be a queen .
It 's really splendid to imagine you be a queen .
You have all the fun of it without any of the inconvenience and you can stop be a queen whenever you want to , which you could n't in real life .
But here in the wood I like best to imagine quite different thing ... I 'm a dryad living in an old pine , or a little brown wood-elf hiding under a crinkled leaf .
That white birch you catch me kissing be a sister of mine .
The only difference be , she 's a tree and I 'm a girl , but that 's no real difference .
Where be you go , Diana ? ''
`` Down to the Dicksons .
I promise to help Alberta cut out her new dress .
Ca n't you walk down in the evening , Anne , and come home with me ? ''
`` I might ... since Fred Wright be away in town , '' say Anne with a rather too innocent face .
Diana blush , toss her head , and walk on .
She do not look offended , however .
Anne fully intend to go down to the Dicksons ' that evening , but she do not .
When she arrive at Green Gables she find a state of affair which banish every other thought from her mind .
Marilla meet her in the yard ... a wild-eyed Marilla .
`` Anne , Dora be lose ! ''
`` Dora !
Lost ! ''
Anne look at Davy , who be swing on the yard gate , and detect merriment in his eye .
`` Davy , do you know where she be ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' say Davy stoutly .
`` I have n't see her since dinner time , cross my heart . ''
`` I 've be away ever since one o'clock , '' say Marilla .
`` Thomas Lynde take sick all of a sudden and Rachel send up for me to go at once .
When I leave here Dora be play with her doll in the kitchen and Davy be make mud pie behind the barn .
I only get home half an hour ago ... and no Dora to be see .
Davy declare he never saw her since I leave . ''
`` Neither I do , '' avow Davy solemnly .
`` She must be somewhere around , '' say Anne .
`` She would never wander far away alone ... you know how timid she be .
Perhaps she have fall asleep in one of the room . ''
Marilla shake her head .
`` I 've hunt the whole house through .
But she may be in some of the building . ''
A thorough search follow .
Every corner of house , yard , and outbuilding be ransack by those two distracted people .
Anne rove the orchard and the Haunted Wood , call Dora 's name .
Marilla take a candle and explore the cellar .
Davy accompany each of them in turn , and be fertile in thinking of place where Dora could possibly be .
Finally they meet again in the yard .
`` It 's a most mysterious thing , '' groan Marilla .
`` Where can she be ? ''
say Anne miserably `` Maybe she 's tumble into the well , '' suggest Davy cheerfully .
Anne and Marilla look fearfully into each other 's eye .
The thought have be with them both through their entire search but neither have dare to put it into word .
`` She ... she might have , '' whisper Marilla .
Anne , feel faint and sick , go to the wellbox and peer over .
The bucket sit on the shelf inside .
Far down below be a tiny glimmer of still water .
The Cuthbert well be the deep in Avonlea .
If Dora ... but Anne could not face the idea .
She shudder and turn away .
`` Run across for Mr. Harrison , '' say Marilla , wring her hand .
`` Mr. Harrison and John Henry be both away ... they go to town today .
I 'll go for Mr. Barry . ''
Mr. Barry come back with Anne , carry a coil of rope to which be attach a claw-like instrument that have be the business end of a grubbing fork .
Marilla and Anne stood by , cold and shake with horror and dread , while Mr. Barry drag the well , and Davy , astride the gate , watch the group with a face indicative of huge enjoyment .
Finally Mr. Barry shake his head , with a relieved air .
`` She ca n't be down there .
It 's a mighty curious thing where she could have get to , though .
Look here , young man , be you sure you 've no idea where your sister be ? ''
`` I 've tell you a dozen time that I have n't , '' say Davy , with an injured air .
`` Maybe a tramp come and steal her . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Marilla sharply , relieve from her horrible fear of the well .
`` Anne , do you suppose she could have stray over to Mr. Harrison 's ?
She have always be talk about his parrot ever since that time you take her over . ''
`` I ca n't believe Dora would venture so far alone but I 'll go over and see , '' say Anne .
Nobody be look at Davy just then or it would have be see that a very decided change come over his face .
He quietly slip off the gate and ran , as fast a his fat leg could carry him , to the barn .
Anne hasten across the field to the Harrison establishment in no very hopeful frame of mind .
The house be lock , the window shade be down , and there be no sign of anything live about the place .
She stand on the veranda and call Dora loudly .
Ginger , in the kitchen behind her , shriek and swore with sudden fierceness ; but between his outburst Anne hear a plaintive cry from the little building in the yard which serve Mr. Harrison a a toolhouse .
Anne fly to the door , unhasped it , and catch up a small mortal with a tearstained face who be sit forlornly on an upturned nail keg .
`` Oh , Dora , Dora , what a fright you have give u !
How come you to be here ? ''
`` Davy and I come over to see Ginger , '' sob Dora , `` but we could n't see him after all , only Davy make him swear by kick the door .
And then Davy bring me here and run out and shut the door ; and I could n't get out .
I cry and cry , I be frighten , and oh , I 'm so hungry and cold ; and I think you 'd never come , Anne . ''
`` Davy ? ''
But Anne could say no more .
She carry Dora home with a heavy heart .
Her joy at find the child safe and sound be drown out in the pain cause by Davy 's behavior .
The freak of shut Dora up might easily have be pardon .
But Davy have tell falsehood ... downright coldblooded falsehood about it .
That be the ugly fact and Anne could not shut her eye to it .
She could have sit down and cried with sheer disappointment .
She have grow to love Davy dearly ... how dearly she have not know until this minute ... and it hurt her unbearably to discover that he be guilty of deliberate falsehood .
Marilla listen to Anne 's tale in a silence that bode no good Davy-ward ; Mr. Barry laugh and advise that Davy be summarily dealt with .
When he have go home Anne soothe and warm the sobbing , shiver Dora , get her her supper and put her to bed .
Then she return to the kitchen , just a Marilla come grimly in , lead , or rather pulling , the reluctant , cobwebby Davy , whom she have just find hidden away in the dark corner of the stable .
She jerk him to the mat on the middle of the floor and then go and sit down by the east window .
Anne be sit limply by the west window .
Between them stand the culprit .
His back be toward Marilla and it be a meek , subdue , frighten back ; but his face be toward Anne and although it be a little shamefaced there be a gleam of comradeship in Davy 's eye , a if he know he have do wrong and be go to be punish for it , but could count on a laugh over it all with Anne later on .
But no half hidden smile answer him in Anne 's gray eye , a there might have do have it be only a question of mischief .
There be something else ... something ugly and repulsive .
`` How could you behave so , Davy ? ''
she ask sorrowfully .
Davy squirm uncomfortably .
`` I just do it for fun .
Things have be so awful quiet here for so long that I think it would be fun to give you folks a big scare .
It be , too . ''
In spite of fear and a little remorse Davy grin over the recollection .
`` But you tell a falsehood about it , Davy , '' say Anne , more sorrowfully than ever .
Davy look puzzle .
`` What 's a falsehood ?
Do you mean a whopper ? ''
`` I mean a story that be not true . ''
`` Course I do , '' say Davy frankly .
`` If I have n't you would n't have be scar .
I HAD to tell it . ''
Anne be feel the reaction from her fright and exertion .
Davy 's impenitent attitude give the finishing touch .
Two big tear brim up in her eye .
`` Oh , Davy , how could you ? ''
she say , with a quiver in her voice .
`` Do n't you know how wrong it be ? ''
Davy be aghast .
Anne cry ... he have make Anne cry !
A flood of real remorse roll like a wave over his warm little heart and engulf it .
He rush to Anne , hurl himself into her lap , fling his arm around her neck , and burst into tear .
`` I do n't know it be wrong to tell whopper , '' he sob .
`` How do you expect me to know it be wrong ?
All Mr. Sprott 's child tell them REGULAR every day , and cross their heart too .
I s ` pose Paul Irving never tell whopper and here I 've be try awful hard to be as good a him , but now I s ` pose you 'll never love me again .
But I think you might have tell me it be wrong .
I 'm awful sorry I 've make you cry , Anne , and I 'll never tell a whopper again . ''
Davy bury his face in Anne 's shoulder and cry stormily .
Anne , in a sudden glad flash of understanding , hold him tight and look over his curly thatch at Marilla .
`` He do n't know it be wrong to tell falsehood , Marilla .
I think we must forgive him for that part of it this time if he will promise never to say what be n't true again . ''
`` I never will , now that I know it 's bad , '' asseverate Davy between sob .
`` If you ever catch me tell a whopper again you can ... '' Davy grope mentally for a suitable penance ... `` you can skin me alive , Anne . ''
`` Do n't say ` whopper , ' Davy ... say ` falsehood , ' '' say the schoolma'am .
`` Why ? ''
query Davy , settle comfortably down and look up with a tearstained , investigate face .
`` Why ai n't whopper as good a falsehood ?
I want to know .
It 's just as big a word . ''
`` It 's slang ; and it 's wrong for little boy to use slang . ''
`` There 's an awful lot of thing it 's wrong to do , '' say Davy with a sigh .
`` I never s ` posed there be so many .
I 'm sorry it 's wrong to tell whop ... falsehood , 'cause it 's awful handy , but since it be I 'm never go to tell any more .
What be you go to do to me for tell them this time ?
I want to know . ''
Anne look beseechingly at Marilla .
`` I do n't want to be too hard on the child , '' say Marilla .
`` I daresay nobody ever do tell him it be wrong to tell lie , and those Sprott child be no fit companion for him .
Poor Mary be too sick to train him properly and I presume you could n't expect a six-year-old child to know thing like that by instinct .
I suppose we 'll just have to assume he do n't know ANYTHING right and begin at the beginning .
But he 'll have to be punish for shut Dora up , and I ca n't think of any way except to send him to bed without his supper and we 've do that so often .
Ca n't you suggest something else , Anne ?
I should think you ought to be able to , with that imagination you 're always talk of . ''
`` But punishment be so horrid and I like to imagine only pleasant thing , '' say Anne , cuddle Davy .
`` There be so many unpleasant thing in the world already that there be no use in imagine any more . ''
In the end Davy be send to bed , a usual , there to remain until noon next day .
He evidently do some thinking , for when Anne go up to her room a little late she hear him call her name softly .
Going in , she find him sit up in bed , with his elbow on his knee and his chin prop on his hand .
`` Anne , '' he say solemnly , `` be it wrong for everybody to tell whop ... falsehood ?
I want to know ? ''
`` Yes , indeed . ''
`` Is it wrong for a grown-up person ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then , '' say Davy decidedly , `` Marilla be bad , for SHE tell them .
And she 's bad 'n me , for I do n't know it be wrong but she do . ''
`` Davy Keith , Marilla never tell a story in her life , '' say Anne indignantly .
`` She do so .
She tell me last Tuesday that something dreadful WOULD happen to me if I do n't say my prayer every night .
And I have n't say them for over a week , just to see what would happen ... and nothing have , '' conclude Davy in an aggrieved tone .
Anne choke back a mad desire to laugh with the conviction that it would be fatal , and then earnestly set about save Marilla 's reputation .
`` Why , Davy Keith , '' she say solemnly , `` something dreadful HAS happen to you this very day . ''
Davy look sceptical .
`` I s ` pose you mean be send to bed without any supper , '' he say scornfully , `` but THAT be n't dreadful .
Course , I do n't like it , but I 've be send to bed so much since I come here that I 'm get use to it .
And you do n't save anything by make me go without supper either , for I always eat twice as much for breakfast . ''
`` I do n't mean your be send to bed .
I mean the fact that you tell a falsehood today .
And , Davy , '' ... Anne lean over the footboard of the bed and shake her finger impressively at the culprit ... `` for a boy to tell what be n't true be almost the bad thing that could HAPPEN to him ... almost the very bad .
So you see Marilla tell you the truth . ''
`` But I think the something bad would be exciting , '' protest Davy in an injured tone .
`` Marilla be n't to blame for what you think .
Bad thing be n't always excite .
They 're very often just nasty and stupid . ''
`` It be awful funny to see Marilla and you look down the well , though , '' say Davy , hug his knee .
Anne keep a sober face until she get downstairs and then she collapse on the sit room lounge and laugh until her side ache .
`` I wish you 'd tell me the joke , '' say Marilla , a little grimly .
`` I have n't see much to laugh at today . ''
`` You 'll laugh when you hear this , '' assure Anne .
And Marilla do laugh , which show how much her education have advance since the adoption of Anne .
But she sigh immediately afterwards .
`` I suppose I should n't have tell him that , although I hear a minister say it to a child once .
But he do aggravate me so .
It be that night you be at the Carmody concert and I be put him to bed .
He say he do n't see the good of pray until he get big enough to be of some importance to God .
Anne , I do not know what we be go to do with that child .
I never saw his beat .
I 'm feel clean discourage . ''
`` Oh , do n't say that , Marilla .
Remember how bad I be when I come here . ''
`` Anne , you never be bad ... NEVER .
I see that now , when I 've learn what real badness be .
You be always get into terrible scrape , I 'll admit , but your motive be always good .
Davy be just bad from sheer love of it . ''
`` Oh , no , I do n't think it be real badness with him either , '' plead Anne .
`` It 's just mischief .
And it be rather quiet for him here , you know .
He have no other boy to play with and his mind have to have something to occupy it .
Dora be so prim and proper she be no good for a boy 's playmate .
I really think it would be good to let them go to school , Marilla . ''
`` No , '' say Marilla resolutely , `` my father always say that no child should be cooped up in the four wall of a school until it be seven year old , and Mr. Allan say the same thing .
The twin can have a few lesson at home but go to school they sha n't till they 're seven . ''
`` Well , we must try to reform Davy at home then , '' say Anne cheerfully .
`` With all his fault he 's really a dear little chap .
I ca n't help love him .
Marilla , it may be a dreadful thing to say , but honestly , I like Davy good than Dora , for all she 's so good . ''
`` I do n't know but that I do , myself , '' confess Marilla , `` and it be n't fair , for Dora be n't a bit of trouble .
There could n't be a good child and you 'd hardly know she be in the house . ''
`` Dora be too good , '' say Anne .
`` She 'd behave just as well if there be n't a soul to tell her what to do .
She be bear already bring up , so she do n't need u ; and I think , '' conclude Anne , hit on a very vital truth , `` that we always love best the people who need u .
Davy need u badly . ''
`` He certainly need something , '' agree Marilla .
`` Rachel Lynde would say it be a good spanking . ''
XI Facts and Fancies `` Teaching be really very interesting work , '' write Anne to a Queen 's Academy chum .
`` Jane say she think it be monotonous but I do n't find it so .
Something funny be almost sure to happen every day , and the child say such amusing thing .
Jane say she punish her pupil when they make funny speech , which be probably why she find teach monotonous .
This afternoon little Jimmy Andrews be try to spell ` speckle ' and could n't manage it .
` Well , ' he say finally , ' I ca n't spell it but I know what it mean . ' ''
` What ? '
I ask . ''
` St. Clair Donnell 's face , miss . '
`` St. Clair be certainly very much freckle , although I try to prevent the others from comment on it ... for I be freckle once and well do I remember it .
But I do n't think St. Clair mind .
It be because Jimmy call him ` St. Clair ' that St. Clair pound him on the way home from school .
I heard of the pounding , but not officially , so I do n't think I 'll take any notice of it .
`` Yesterday I be try to teach Lottie Wright to do addition .
I say , ` If you have three candy in one hand and two in the other , how many would you have altogether ? ' '
A mouthful , ' say Lottie .
And in the nature study class , when I ask them to give me a good reason why toad should n't be kill , Benjie Sloane gravely answer , ` Because it would rain the next day . '
`` It 's so hard not to laugh , Stella .
I have to save up all my amusement until I get home , and Marilla say it make her nervous to hear wild shriek of mirth proceed from the east gable without any apparent cause .
She say a man in Grafton go insane once and that be how it begin .
`` Did you know that Thomas a Becket be canonize a a SNAKE ?
Rose Bell say he be ... also that William Tyndale WROTE the New Testament .
Claude White say a ` glacier ' be a man who put in window frame !
`` I think the most difficult thing in teaching , as well a the most interesting , be to get the child to tell you their real thought about thing .
One stormy day last week I gather them around me at dinner hour and try to get them to talk to me just a if I be one of themselves .
I ask them to tell me the thing they most want .
Some of the answer be commonplace enough ... doll , pony , and skate .
Others be decidedly original .
Hester Boulter want ` to wear her Sunday dress every day and eat in the sitting room . '
Hannah Bell want ` to be good without have to take any trouble about it . '
Marjory White , age ten , want to be a WIDOW .
Questioned why , she gravely say that if you be n't marry people call you an old maid , and if you be your husband boss you ; but if you be a widow there 'd be no danger of either .
The most remarkable wish be Sally Bell 's .
She want a ` honeymoon . '
I ask her if she know what it be and she say she think it be an extra nice kind of bicycle because her cousin in Montreal go on a honeymoon when he be marry and he have always have the very late in bicycle !
`` Another day I ask them all to tell me the naughty thing they have ever do .
I could n't get the old one to do so , but the third class answer quite freely .
Eliza Bell have ` set fire to her aunt 's carded roll . '
Asked if she mean to do it she say , ` not altogether . '
She just try a little end to see how it would burn and the whole bundle blaze up in a jiffy .
Emerson Gillis have spend ten cent for candy when he should have put it in his missionary box .
Annetta Bell 's bad crime be ` eat some blueberry that grow in the graveyard . '
Willie White have ` slid down the sheephouse roof a lot of time with his Sunday trouser on . '
` But I be punish for it 'cause I have to wear patched pant to Sunday School all summer , and when you 're punish for a thing you do n't have to repent of it , ' declare Willie .
`` I wish you could see some of their composition ... so much do I wish it that I 'll send you copy of some write recently .
Last week I tell the fourth class I want them to write me letter about anything they please , add by way of suggestion that they might tell me of some place they have visit or some interesting thing or person they have see .
They be to write the letter on real note paper , seal them in an envelope , and address them to me , all without any assistance from other people .
Last Friday morning I find a pile of letter on my desk and that even I realize afresh that teaching have it pleasure as well a it pain .
Those composition would atone for much .
Here be Ned Clay 's , address , spelling , and grammar a originally pen . ''
` Miss teacher ShiRley Green gabels .
p.e . Island can bird '' ` Dear teacher I think I will write you a composition about bird .
bird be very useful animal .
my cat catch bird .
His name be William but pa call him tom .
he be oll striped and he get one of his ear froz of last winter .
only for that he would be a good-looking cat .
My unkle have adopt a cat .
it come to his house one day and woudent go away and unkle say it have forget more than most people ever know .
he let it sleep on his rocking chare and my aunt say he think more of it than he do of his child .
that be not right .
we ought to be kind to cat and give them new milk but we ought not be good to them than to our child .
this be oll I can think of so no more at present from edward blake ClaY . ' ''
`` St. Clair Donnell 's be , a usual , short and to the point .
St. Clair never waste word .
I do not think he choose his subject or add the postscript out of malice aforethought .
It be just that he have not a great deal of tact or imagination . '' ''
` Dear Miss Shirley '' ` You tell u to describe something strange we have see .
I will describe the Avonlea Hall .
It have two door , an inside one and an outside one .
It have six window and a chimney .
It have two end and two side .
It be paint blue .
That be what make it strange .
It be build on the low Carmody road .
It be the third most important building in Avonlea .
The others be the church and the blacksmith shop .
They hold debate club and lecture in it and concert . ''
` Yours truly , '' ` Jacob Donnell . ''
` P.S . .
The hall be a very bright blue . ' ''
`` Annetta Bell 's letter be quite long , which surprise me , for write essay be not Annetta 's forte , and hers be generally as brief a St. Clair 's .
Annetta be a quiet little pus and a model of good behavior , but there be n't a shadow of orginality in her .
Here be her letter .
-- '' ` Dearest teacher , '' `` I think I will write you a letter to tell you how much I love you .
I love you with my whole heart and soul and mind ... with all there be of me to love ... and I want to serve you for ever .
It would be my high privilege .
That be why I try so hard to be good in school and learn my lessuns . ''
` You be so beautiful , my teacher .
Your voice be like music and your eye be like pansy when the dew be on them .
You be like a tall stately queen .
Your hair be like ripple gold .
Anthony Pye say it be red , but you need n't pay any attention to Anthony . '' '
I have only know you for a few month but I can not realize that there be ever a time when I do not know you ... when you have not come into my life to bless and hallow it .
I will always look back to this year a the most wonderful in my life because it bring you to me .
Besides , it 's the year we move to Avonlea from Newbridge .
My love for you have make my life very rich and it have keep me from much of harm and evil .
I owe this all to you , my sweet teacher . '' '
I shall never forget how sweet you look the last time I saw you in that black dress with flower in your hair .
I shall see you like that for ever , even when we be both old and gray .
You will always be young and fair to me , dear teacher .
I be think of you all the time ... in the morning and at the noontide and at the twilight .
I love you when you laugh and when you sigh ... even when you look disdainful .
I never saw you look cross though Anthony Pye say you always look so but I do n't wonder you look cross at him for he deserve it .
I love you in every dress ... you seem more adorable in each new dress than the last . ''
` Dearest teacher , good night .
The sun have set and the star be shin ... star that be a bright and beautiful a your eye .
I kiss your hand and face , my sweet .
May God watch over you and protect you from all harm . ''
`` Your afecksionate pupil , '' ` Annetta Bell . ' ''
`` This extraordinary letter puzzle me not a little .
I know Annetta could n't have compose it any more than she could fly .
When I go to school the next day I take her for a walk down to the brook at recess and ask her to tell me the truth about the letter .
Annetta cry and ` fessed up freely .
She say she have never write a letter and she do n't know how to , or what to say , but there be bundle of love letter in her mother 's top bureau drawer which have be write to her by an old ` beau . ' ''
` It be n't father , ' sob Annetta , ` it be someone who be study for a minister , and so he could write lovely letter , but ma do n't marry him after all .
She say she could n't make out what he be drive at half the time .
But I think the letter be sweet and that I 'd just copy thing out of them here and there to write you .
I put `` teacher '' where he put `` lady '' and I put in something of my own when I could think of it and I change some word .
I put `` dress '' in place of `` mood . ''
I do n't know just what a `` mood '' be but I s ` pose it be something to wear .
I do n't s ` pose you 'd know the difference .
I do n't see how you find out it be n't all mine .
You must be awful clever , teacher . '
`` I tell Annetta it be very wrong to copy another person 's letter and pas it off a her own .
But I 'm afraid that all Annetta repent of be be find out . ''
` And I do love you , teacher , ' she sob .
` It be all true , even if the minister write it first .
I do love you with all my heart . '
`` It 's very difficult to scold anybody properly under such circumstance .
`` Here be Barbara Shaw 's letter .
I ca n't reproduce the blot of the original . ''
` Dear teacher , '' `` You say we might write about a visit .
I never visit but once .
It be at my Aunt Mary 's last winter .
My Aunt Mary be a very particular woman and a great housekeeper .
The first night I be there we be at tea .
I knock over a jug and break it .
Aunt Mary say she have have that jug ever since she be marry and nobody have ever break it before .
When we get up I step on her dress and all the gather tear out of the skirt .
The next morning when I get up I hit the pitcher against the basin and crack them both and I upset a cup of tea on the tablecloth at breakfast .
When I be help Aunt Mary with the dinner dish I drop a china plate and it smash .
That even I fell downstairs and sprain my ankle and have to stay in bed for a week .
I hear Aunt Mary tell Uncle Joseph it be a mercy or I 'd have break everything in the house .
When I get well it be time to go home .
I do n't like visit very much .
I like go to school well , especially since I come to Avonlea . ''
` Yours respectfully , '' `` Barbara Shaw . ' ''
`` Willie White 's begin , '' `` Respected Miss , '' `` I want to tell you about my Very Brave Aunt .
She live in Ontario and one day she go out to the barn and saw a dog in the yard .
The dog have no business there so she get a stick and whack him hard and drive him into the barn and shut him up .
Pretty soon a man come look for an inaginary lion ' -LRB- Query ; -- Did Willie mean a menagerie lion ? -RRB-
` that have run away from a circus .
And it turn out that the dog be a lion and my Very Brave Aunt have druv him into the barn with a stick .
It be a wonder she be not et up but she be very brave .
Emerson Gillis say if she think it be a dog she be n't any braver than if it really be a dog .
But Emerson be jealous because he have n't get a Brave Aunt himself , nothing but uncle . ' '' '
I have keep the best for the last .
You laugh at me because I think Paul be a genius but I be sure his letter will convince you that he be a very uncommon child .
Paul live away down near the shore with his grandmother and he have no playmate ... no real playmate .
You remember our School Management professor tell u that we must not have ` favorite ' among our pupil , but I ca n't help love Paul Irving the best of all mine .
I do n't think it do any harm , though , for everybody love Paul , even Mrs. Lynde , who say she could never have believe she 'd get so fond of a Yankee .
The other boy in school like him too .
There be nothing weak or girlish about him in spite of his dream and fancy .
He be very manly and can hold his own in all game .
He fight St. Clair Donnell recently because St. Clair say the Union Jack be away ahead of the Stars and Stripes a a flag .
The result be a drawn battle and a mutual agreement to respect each other 's patriotism henceforth .
St. Clair say he can hit the HARDEST but Paul can hit the OFTENEST . ' ''
`` Paul 's Letter . ''
` My dear teacher , '' ` You tell u we might write you about some interesting people we know .
I think the most interesting people I know be my rock people and I mean to tell you about them .
I have never tell anybody about them except grandma and father but I would like to have you know about them because you understand thing .
There be a great many people who do not understand thing so there be no use in tell them . ' ''
` My rock people live at the shore .
I use to visit them almost every evening before the winter come .
Now I ca n't go till spring , but they will be there , for people like that never change ... that be the splendid thing about them .
Nora be the first one of them I get acquaint with and so I think I love her the best .
She live in Andrews ' Cove and she have black hair and black eye , and she know all about the mermaid and the water kelpy .
You ought to hear the story she can tell .
Then there be the Twin Sailors .
They do n't live anywhere , they sail all the time , but they often come ashore to talk to me .
They be a pair of jolly tar and they have see everything in the world ... and more than what be in the world .
Do you know what happen to the young Twin Sailor once ?
He be sail and he sail right into a moonglade .
A moonglade be the track the full moon make on the water when it be rise from the sea , you know , teacher .
Well , the young Twin Sailor sail along the moonglade till he come right up to the moon , and there be a little golden door in the moon and he open it and sail right through .
He have some wonderful adventure in the moon but it would make this letter too long to tell them . ' ''
` Then there be the Golden Lady of the cave .
One day I find a big cave down on the shore and I go away in and after a while I find the Golden Lady .
She have golden hair right down to her foot and her dress be all glittering and glisten like gold that be alive .
And she have a golden harp and play on it all day long ... you can hear the music any time along shore if you listen carefully but most people would think it be only the wind among the rock .
I 've never tell Nora about the Golden Lady .
I be afraid it might hurt her feeling .
It even hurt her feeling if I talk too long with the Twin Sailors . ' '' '
I always meet the Twin Sailors at the Striped Rocks .
The young Twin Sailor be very good-tempered but the old Twin Sailor can look dreadfully fierce at time .
I have my suspicion about that old Twin .
I believe he 'd be a pirate if he dare .
There 's really something very mysterious about him .
He swear once and I tell him if he ever do it again he need n't come ashore to talk to me because I 'd promise grandmother I 'd never associate with anybody that swore .
He be pretty well scared , I can tell you , and he say if I would forgive him he would take me to the sunset .
So the next evening when I be sit on the Striped Rocks the old Twin come sail over the sea in an enchanted boat and I get in her .
The boat be all pearly and rainbowy , like the inside of the mussel shell , and her sail be like moonshine .
Well , we sail right across to the sunset .
Think of that , teacher , I 've be in the sunset .
And what do you suppose it be ?
The sunset be a land all flower .
We sail into a great garden , and the cloud be bed of flower .
We sail into a great harbor , all the color of gold , and I step right out of the boat on a big meadow all cover with buttercup as big a rose .
I stay there for ever so long .
It seem nearly a year but the Oldest Twin say it be only a few minute .
You see , in the sunset land the time be ever so much long than it be here . ' ''
` Your loving pupil Paul Irving . ' ''
` P. S. of course , this letter be n't really true , teacher .
P.I. ' '' XII A Jonah Day It really begin the night before with a restless , wakeful vigil of grumble toothache .
When Anne arose in the dull , bitter winter morning she felt that life be flat , stale , and unprofitable .
She go to school in no angelic mood .
Her cheek be swollen and her face ache .
The schoolroom be cold and smoky , for the fire refuse to burn and the child be huddle about it in shiver group .
Anne send them to their seat with a sharp tone than she have ever use before .
Anthony Pye strut to his with his usual impertinent swagger and she saw him whisper something to his seat-mate and then glance at her with a grin .
Never , so it seem to Anne , have there be so many squeaky pencil a there be that morning ; and when Barbara Shaw come up to the desk with a sum she trip over the coal scuttle with disastrous result .
The coal roll to every part of the room , her slate be break into fragment , and when she pick herself up , her face , stain with coal dust , send the boy into roar of laughter .
Anne turn from the second reader class which she be hear .
`` Really , Barbara , '' she say icily , `` if you can not move without fall over something you 'd better remain in your seat .
It be positively disgraceful for a girl of your age to be so awkward . ''
Poor Barbara stumble back to her desk , her tear combine with the coal dust to produce an effect truly grotesque .
Never before have her beloved , sympathetic teacher spoken to her in such a tone or fashion , and Barbara be heartbroken .
Anne herself felt a prick of conscience but it only serve to increase her mental irritation , and the second reader class remember that lesson yet , as well a the unmerciful infliction of arithmetic that follow .
Just a Anne be snap the sum out St. Clair Donnell arrive breathlessly .
`` You be half an hour late , St. Clair , '' Anne remind him frigidly .
`` Why be this ? ''
`` Please , miss , I have to help ma make a pudding for dinner 'cause we 're expect company and Clarice Almira 's sick , '' be St. Clair 's answer , give in a perfectly respectful voice but nevertheless provocative of great mirth among his mate .
`` Take your seat and work out the six problem on page eighty-four of your arithmetic for punishment , '' say Anne .
St. Clair look rather amaze at her tone but he go meekly to his desk and take out his slate .
Then he stealthily pass a small parcel to Joe Sloane across the aisle .
Anne catch him in the act and jump to a fatal conclusion about that parcel .
Old Mrs. Hiram Sloane have lately take to make and sell `` nut cake '' by way of add to her scanty income .
The cake be specially tempt to small boy and for several week Anne have have not a little trouble in regard to them .
On their way to school the boy would invest their spare cash at Mrs. Hiram 's , bring the cake along with them to school , and , if possible , eat them and treat their mate during school hour .
Anne have warn them that if they bring any more cake to school they would be confiscate ; and yet here be St. Clair Donnell coolly pass a parcel of them , wrap up in the blue and white strip paper Mrs. Hiram use , under her very eyes .
`` Joseph , '' say Anne quietly , `` bring that parcel here . ''
Joe , startle and abash , obey .
He be a fat urchin who always blush and stutter when he be frighten .
Never do anybody look more guilty than poor Joe at that moment .
`` Throw it into the fire , '' say Anne .
Joe look very blank .
`` P ... p ... p ... lease , m ... m ... miss , '' he begin .
`` Do a I tell you , Joseph , without any word about it . ''
`` B ... b ... but m ... m ... miss ... th ... th ... they 're ... '' gasp Joe in desperation .
`` Joseph , be you go to obey me or be you NOT ? ''
say Anne .
A bolder and more self-possessed lad than Joe Sloane would have be overawe by her tone and the dangerous flash of her eye .
This be a new Anne whom none of her pupil have ever see before .
Joe , with an agonized glance at St. Clair , go to the stove , open the big , square front door , and throw the blue and white parcel in , before St. Clair , who have spring to his foot , could utter a word .
Then he dodge back just in time .
For a few moment the terrified occupant of Avonlea school do not know whether it be an earthquake or a volcanic explosion that have occur .
The innocent look parcel which Anne have rashly suppose to contain Mrs. Hiram 's nut cake really hold an assortment of firecracker and pinwheel for which Warren Sloane have send to town by St. Clair Donnell 's father the day before , intend to have a birthday celebration that even .
The cracker go off in a thunderclap of noise and the pinwheel burst out of the door spin madly around the room , hiss and splutter .
Anne drop into her chair white with dismay and all the girl climb shriek upon their desk .
Joe Sloane stand a one transfixed in the midst of the commotion and St. Clair , helpless with laughter , rock to and fro in the aisle .
Prillie Rogerson faint and Annetta Bell go into hysteric .
It seem a long time , although it be really only a few minute , before the last pinwheel subside .
Anne , recover herself , spring to open door and window and let out the gas and smoke which fill the room .
Then she help the girl carry the unconscious Prillie into the porch , where Barbara Shaw , in an agony of desire to be useful , pour a pailful of half frozen water over Prillie 's face and shoulder before anyone could stop her .
It be a full hour before quiet be restore ... but it be a quiet that might be felt .
Everybody realize that even the explosion have not clear the teacher 's mental atmosphere .
Nobody , except Anthony Pye , dare whisper a word .
Ned Clay accidentally squeak his pencil while work a sum , catch Anne 's eye and wish the floor would open and swallow him up .
The geography class be whisk through a continent with a speed that make them dizzy .
The grammar class be parse and analyze within an inch of their life .
Chester Sloane , spell `` odoriferous '' with two f 's , be make to feel that he could never live down the disgrace of it , either in this world or that which be to come .
Anne know that she have make herself ridiculous and that the incident would be laugh over that night at a score of tea-tables , but the knowledge only anger her further .
In a calmer mood she could have carry off the situation with a laugh but now that be impossible ; so she ignore it in icy disdain .
When Anne return to the school after dinner all the child be as usual in their seat and every face be bent studiously over a desk except Anthony Pye 's .
He peer across his book at Anne , his black eye sparkle with curiosity and mockery .
Anne twitch open the drawer of her desk in search of chalk and under her very hand a lively mouse spring out of the drawer , scamper over the desk , and leap to the floor .
Anne scream and spring back , a if it have be a snake , and Anthony Pye laugh aloud .
Then a silence fell ... a very creepy , uncomfortable silence .
Annetta Bell be of two mind whether to go into hysteric again or not , especially a she do n't know just where the mouse have go .
But she decide not to .
Who could take any comfort out of hysteric with a teacher so white-faced and so blazing-eyed standing before one ?
`` Who put that mouse in my desk ? ''
say Anne .
Her voice be quite low but it make a shiver go up and down Paul Irving 's spine .
Joe Sloane catch her eye , felt responsible from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot , but stutter out wildly , `` N ... n ... not m ... m ... me t ... t ... teacher , n ... n ... not m ... m ... me . ''
Anne pay no attention to the wretched Joseph .
She look at Anthony Pye , and Anthony Pye look back unabashed and unashamed .
`` Anthony , be it you ? ''
`` Yes , it be , '' say Anthony insolently .
Anne take her pointer from her desk .
It be a long , heavy hardwood pointer .
`` Come here , Anthony . ''
It be far from be the most severe punishment Anthony Pye have ever undergone .
Anne , even the stormy-souled Anne she be at that moment , could not have punish any child cruelly .
But the pointer nip keenly and finally Anthony 's bravado fail him ; he wince and the tear come to his eye .
Anne , conscience-stricken , drop the pointer and tell Anthony to go to his seat .
She sit down at her desk feeling ashamed , repentant , and bitterly mortify .
Her quick anger be go and she would have give much to have be able to seek relief in tear .
So all her boast have come to this ... she have actually whip one of her pupil .
How Jane would triumph !
And how Mr. Harrison would chuckle !
But bad than this , bitter thought of all , she have lose her last chance of win Anthony Pye .
Never would he like her now .
Anne , by what somebody have call `` a Herculaneum effort , '' keep back her tear until she get home that night .
Then she shut herself in the east gable room and wept all her shame and remorse and disappointment into her pillow ... weep so long that Marilla grow alarm , invade the room , and insist on know what the trouble be .
`` The trouble be , I 've get thing the matter with my conscience , '' sob Anne .
`` Oh , this have be such a Jonah day , Marilla .
I 'm so ashamed of myself .
I lose my temper and whip Anthony Pye . ''
`` I 'm glad to hear it , '' say Marilla with decision .
`` It 's what you should have do long ago . ''
`` Oh , no , no , Marilla .
And I do n't see how I can ever look those child in the face again .
I feel that I have humiliate myself to the very dust .
You do n't know how cross and hateful and horrid I be .
I ca n't forget the expression in Paul Irving 's eye ... he look so surprised and disappointed .
Oh , Marilla , I HAVE try so hard to be patient and to win Anthony 's liking ... and now it have all go for nothing . ''
Marilla pass her hard work-worn hand over the girl 's glossy , tumble hair with a wonderful tenderness .
When Anne 's sob grow quiet she say , very gently for her , `` You take thing too much to heart , Anne .
We all make mistake ... but people forget them .
And Jonah day come to everybody .
As for Anthony Pye , why need you care if he do dislike you ?
He be the only one . ''
`` I ca n't help it .
I want everybody to love me and it hurt me so when anybody do n't .
And Anthony never will now .
Oh , I just make an idiot of myself today , Marilla .
I 'll tell you the whole story . ''
Marilla listen to the whole story , and if she smile at certain part of it Anne never know .
When the tale be end she say briskly , `` Well , never mind .
This day 's do and there 's a new one come tomorrow , with no mistake in it yet , a you use to say yourself .
Just come downstairs and have your supper .
You 'll see if a good cup of tea and those plum puff I make today wo n't hearten you up . ''
`` Plum puff wo n't minister to a mind diseased , '' say Anne disconsolately ; but Marilla think it a good sign that she have recover sufficiently to adapt a quotation .
The cheerful supper table , with the twin ' bright face , and Marilla 's matchless plum puff ... of which Davy ate four ... do `` hearten her up '' considerably after all .
She have a good sleep that night and awaken in the morning to find herself and the world transform .
It have snow softly and thickly all through the hour of darkness and the beautiful whiteness , glitter in the frosty sunshine , look like a mantle of charity cast over all the mistake and humiliation of the past .
`` Every morn be a fresh beginning , Every morn be the world make new , '' sing Anne , a she dress .
Owing to the snow she have to go around by the road to school and she think it be certainly an impish coincidence that Anthony Pye should come plough along just a she leave the Green Gables lane .
She felt as guilty a if their position be reverse ; but to her unspeakable astonishment Anthony not only lift his cap ... which he have never do before ... but say easily , `` Kind of bad walking , ai n't it ?
Can I take those book for you , teacher ? ''
Anne surrender her book and wonder if she could possibly be awake .
Anthony walk on in silence to the school , but when Anne take her book she smile down at him ... not the stereotype `` kind '' smile she have so persistently assume for his benefit but a sudden outflashing of good comradeship .
Anthony smile ... no , if the truth must be tell , Anthony GRINNED back .
A grin be not generally suppose to be a respectful thing ; yet Anne suddenly felt that if she have not yet win Anthony 's liking she have , somehow or other , win his respect .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde come up the next Saturday and confirm this .
`` Well , Anne , I guess you 've win over Anthony Pye , that 's what .
He say he believe you be some good after all , even if you be a girl .
Says that whip you give him be ` just as good a a man 's . ' ''
`` I never expect to win him by whip him , though , '' say Anne , a little mournfully , feel that her ideal have play her false somewhere .
`` It do n't seem right .
I 'm sure my theory of kindness ca n't be wrong . ''
`` No , but the Pyes be an exception to every know rule , that 's what , '' declare Mrs. Rachel with conviction .
Mr. Harrison say , `` Thought you 'd come to it , '' when he hear it , and Jane rub it in rather unmercifully .
XIII A Golden Picnic Anne , on her way to Orchard Slope , meet Diana , bound for Green Gables , just where the mossy old log bridge span the brook below the Haunted Wood , and they sit down by the margin of the Dryad 's Bubble , where tiny fern be unroll like curly-headed green pixy folk waken up from a nap .
`` I be just on my way over to invite you to help me celebrate my birthday on Saturday , '' say Anne .
`` Your birthday ?
But your birthday be in March ! ''
`` That be n't my fault , '' laugh Anne .
`` If my parent have consult me it would never have happen then .
I should have choose to be bear in spring , of course .
It must be delightful to come into the world with the mayflower and violet .
You would always feel that you be their foster sister .
But since I do n't , the next best thing be to celebrate my birthday in the spring .
Priscilla be come over Saturday and Jane will be home .
We 'll all four start off to the wood and spend a golden day make the acquaintance of the spring .
We none of u really know her yet , but we 'll meet her back there a we never can anywhere else .
I want to explore all those field and lonely place anyhow .
I have a conviction that there be score of beautiful nook there that have never really be SEEN although they may have be LOOKED at .
We 'll make friend with wind and sky and sun , and bring home the spring in our heart . ''
`` It SOUNDS awfully nice , '' say Diana , with some inward distrust of Anne 's magic of word .
`` But wo n't it be very damp in some place yet ? ''
`` Oh , we 'll wear rubber , '' be Anne 's concession to practicality .
`` And I want you to come over early Saturday morning and help me prepare lunch .
I 'm go to have the dainty thing possible ... thing that will match the spring , you understand ... little jelly tart and lady finger , and drop cooky frost with pink and yellow icing , and buttercup cake .
And we must have sandwich too , though they 're NOT very poetical . ''
Saturday prove an ideal day for a picnic ... a day of breeze and blue , warm , sunny , with a little rollicking wind blow across meadow and orchard .
Over every sunlit upland and field be a delicate , flower-starred green .
Mr. Harrison , harrow at the back of his farm and feel some of the spring witch-work even in his sober , middle-aged blood , saw four girl , basket laden , trip across the end of his field where it join a fringing woodland of birch and fir .
Their blithe voice and laughter echo down to him .
`` It 's so easy to be happy on a day like this , be n't it ? ''
Anne be say , with true Anneish philosophy .
`` Let 's try to make this a really golden day , girl , a day to which we can always look back with delight .
We 're to seek for beauty and refuse to see anything else .
` Begone , dull care ! '
Jane , you be think of something that go wrong in school yesterday . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
gasp Jane , amaze .
`` Oh , I know the expression ... I 've felt it often enough on my own face .
But put it out of your mind , there 's a dear .
It will keep till Monday ... or if it do n't so much the good .
Oh , girl , girl , see that patch of violet !
There 's something for memory 's picture gallery .
When I 'm eighty year old ... if I ever be ... I shall shut my eye and see those violet just a I see them now .
That 's the first good gift our day have give u . ''
`` If a kiss could be see I think it would look like a violet , '' say Priscilla .
Anne glow .
`` I 'm so glad you SPOKE that thought , Priscilla , instead of just think it and keep it to yourself .
This world would be a much more interesting place ... although it IS very interesting anyhow ... if people speak out their real thought . ''
`` It would be too hot to hold some folk , '' quote Jane sagely .
`` I suppose it might be , but that would be their own fault for think nasty thing .
Anyhow , we can tell all our thought today because we be go to have nothing but beautiful thought .
Everybody can say just what come into her head .
THAT be conversation .
Here 's a little path I never saw before .
Let 's explore it . ''
The path be a wind one , so narrow that the girl walk in single file and even then the fir bough brush their face .
Under the fir be velvety cushion of moss , and far on , where the tree be small and few , the ground be rich in a variety of green grow thing .
`` What a lot of elephant 's ear , '' exclaim Diana .
`` I 'm go to pick a big bunch , they 're so pretty . ''
`` How do such graceful feathery thing ever come to have such a dreadful name ? ''
ask Priscilla .
`` Because the person who first name them either have no imagination at all or else far too much , '' say Anne , `` Oh , girl , look at that ! ''
`` That '' be a shallow woodland pool in the center of a little open glade where the path end .
Later on in the season it would be dry up and it place fill with a rank growth of fern ; but now it be a glimmering placid sheet , round a a saucer and clear a crystal .
A ring of slender young birch encircle it and little fern fringe it margin .
`` HOW sweet ! ''
say Jane .
`` Let u dance around it like wood-nymphs , '' cry Anne , drop her basket and extend her hand .
But the dance be not a success for the ground be boggy and Jane 's rubber come off .
`` You ca n't be a wood-nymph if you have to wear rubber , '' be her decision .
`` Well , we must name this place before we leave it , '' say Anne , yield to the indisputable logic of fact .
`` Everybody suggest a name and we 'll draw lot .
Diana ? ''
`` Birch Pool , '' suggest Diana promptly .
`` Crystal Lake , '' say Jane .
Anne , stand behind them , implore Priscilla with her eye not to perpetrate another such name and Priscilla rise to the occasion with `` Glimmer-glass . ''
Anne 's selection be `` The Fairies ' Mirror . ''
The name be write on strip of birch bark with a pencil Schoolma'am Jane produce from her pocket , and place in Anne 's hat .
Then Priscilla shut her eye and draw one .
`` Crystal Lake , '' read Jane triumphantly .
Crystal Lake it be , and if Anne think that chance have play the pool a shabby trick she do not say so .
Pushing through the undergrowth beyond , the girl come out to the young green seclusion of Mr. Silas Sloane 's back pasture .
Across it they find the entrance to a lane strike up through the wood and vote to explore it also .
It reward their quest with a succession of pretty surprise .
First , skirt Mr. Sloane 's pasture , come an archway of wild cherry tree all in bloom .
The girl swing their hat on their arm and wreathe their hair with the creamy , fluffy blossom .
Then the lane turn at right angle and plunge into a spruce wood so thick and dark that they walk in a gloom a of twilight , with not a glimpse of sky or sunlight to be see .
`` This be where the bad wood elf dwell , '' whisper Anne .
`` They be impish and malicious but they ca n't harm u , because they be not allow to do evil in the spring .
There be one peeping at u around that old twisted fir ; and do n't you see a group of them on that big freckly toadstool we just pass ?
The good fairy always dwell in the sunshiny place . ''
`` I wish there really be fairy , '' say Jane .
`` Would n't it be nice to have three wish grant you ... or even only one ?
What would you wish for , girl , if you could have a wish grant ?
I 'd wish to be rich and beautiful and clever . ''
`` I 'd wish to be tall and slender , '' say Diana .
`` I would wish to be famous , '' say Priscilla .
Anne thought of her hair and then dismiss the thought a unworthy .
`` I 'd wish it might be spring all the time and in everybody 's heart and all our life , '' she say .
`` But that , '' say Priscilla , `` would be just wish this world be like heaven . ''
`` Only like a part of heaven .
In the other part there would be summer and autumn ... yes , and a bit of winter , too .
I think I want glitter snowy field and white frost in heaven sometimes .
Do n't you , Jane ? ''
`` I ... I do n't know , '' say Jane uncomfortably .
Jane be a good girl , a member of the church , who try conscientiously to live up to her profession and believe everything she have be teach .
But she never think about heaven any more than she could help , for all that .
`` Minnie May ask me the other day if we would wear our best dress every day in heaven , '' laugh Diana .
`` And do n't you tell her we would ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Mercy , no !
I tell her we would n't be think of dress at all there . ''
`` Oh , I think we will ... a LITTLE , '' say Anne earnestly .
`` There 'll be plenty of time in all eternity for it without neglect more important thing .
I believe we 'll all wear beautiful dress ... or I suppose RAIMENT would be a more suitable way of speaking .
I shall want to wear pink for a few century at first ... it would take me that long to get tire of it , I feel sure .
I do love pink so and I can never wear it in THIS world . ''
Past the spruce the lane dip down into a sunny little open where a log bridge span a brook ; and then come the glory of a sunlit beechwood where the air be like transparent golden wine , and the leaf fresh and green , and the wood floor a mosaic of tremulous sunshine .
Then more wild cherry , and a little valley of lissome fir , and then a hill so steep that the girl lose their breath climb it ; but when they reach the top and come out into the open the pretty surprise of all await them .
Beyond be the `` back field '' of the farm that run out to the upper Carmody road .
Just before them , hem in by beech and fir but open to the south , be a little corner and in it a garden ... or what have once be a garden .
A tumbledown stone dyke , overgrown with moss and grass , surround it .
Along the eastern side run a row of garden cherry tree , white a a snowdrift .
There be trace of old path still and a double line of rosebush through the middle ; but all the rest of the space be a sheet of yellow and white narcissus , in their airy , most lavish , wind-swayed bloom above the lush green grass .
`` Oh , how perfectly lovely ! ''
three of the girl cry .
Anne only gaze in eloquent silence .
`` How in the world do it happen that there ever be a garden back here ? ''
say Priscilla in amazement .
`` It must be Hester Gray 's garden , '' say Diana .
`` I 've hear mother speak of it but I never saw it before , and I would n't have suppose that it could be in existence still .
You 've hear the story , Anne ? ''
`` No , but the name seem familiar to me . ''
`` Oh , you 've see it in the graveyard .
She be bury down there in the poplar corner .
You know the little brown stone with the opening gate carve on it and ` Sacred to the memory of Hester Gray , age twenty-two . '
Jordan Gray be bury right beside her but there 's no stone to him .
It 's a wonder Marilla never tell you about it , Anne .
To be sure , it happen thirty year ago and everybody have forget . ''
`` Well , if there 's a story we must have it , '' say Anne .
`` Let 's sit right down here among the narcissus and Diana will tell it .
Why , girl , there be hundred of them ... they 've spread over everything .
It look a if the garden be carpet with moonshine and sunshine combine .
This be a discovery worth making .
To think that I 've live within a mile of this place for six year and have never see it before !
Now , Diana . ''
`` Long ago , '' begin Diana , `` this farm belong to old Mr. David Gray .
He do n't live on it ... he live where Silas Sloane live now .
He have one son , Jordan , and he go up to Boston one winter to work and while he be there he fell in love with a girl name Hester Murray .
She be work in a store and she hat it .
She 'd be bring up in the country and she always want to get back .
When Jordan ask her to marry him she say she would if he 'd take her away to some quiet spot where she 'd see nothing but field and tree .
So he bring her to Avonlea .
Mrs. Lynde say he be take a fearful risk in marry a Yankee , and it 's certain that Hester be very delicate and a very poor housekeeper ; but mother say she be very pretty and sweet and Jordan just worship the ground she walk on .
Well , Mr. Gray give Jordan this farm and he build a little house back here and Jordan and Hester live in it for four year .
She never go out much and hardly anybody go to see her except mother and Mrs. Lynde .
Jordan make her this garden and she be crazy about it and spend most of her time in it .
She be n't much of a housekeeper but she have a knack with flower .
And then she get sick .
Mother say she think she be in consumption before she ever come here .
She never really lay up but just grow weak and weak all the time .
Jordan would n't have anybody to wait on her .
He do it all himself and mother say he be a tender and gentle a a woman .
Every day he 'd wrap her in a shawl and carry her out to the garden and she 'd lie there on a bench quite happy .
They say she use to make Jordan kneel down by her every night and morning and pray with her that she might die out in the garden when the time come .
And her prayer be answer .
One day Jordan carry her out to the bench and then he pick all the rose that be out and heap them over her ; and she just smile up at him ... and close her eye ... and that , '' conclude Diana softly , `` be the end . ''
`` Oh , what a dear story , '' sigh Anne , wipe away her tear .
`` What become of Jordan ? ''
ask Priscilla .
`` He sell the farm after Hester die and go back to Boston .
Mr. Jabez Sloane buy the farm and haul the little house out to the road .
Jordan die about ten year after and he be bring home and bury beside Hester . ''
`` I ca n't understand how she could have want to live back here , away from everything , '' say Jane .
`` Oh , I can easily understand THAT , '' say Anne thoughtfully .
`` I would n't want it myself for a steady thing , because , although I love the field and wood , I love people too .
But I can understand it in Hester .
She be tire to death of the noise of the big city and the crowd of people always come and go and care nothing for her .
She just want to escape from it all to some still , green , friendly place where she could rest .
And she get just what she want , which be something very few people do , I believe .
She have four beautiful year before she die ... four year of perfect happiness , so I think she be to be envy more than pity .
And then to shut your eye and fall asleep among rose , with the one you love best on earth smile down at you ... oh , I think it be beautiful ! ''
`` She set out those cherry tree over there , '' say Diana .
`` She tell mother she 'd never live to eat their fruit , but she want to think that something she have plant would go on living and help to make the world beautiful after she be dead . ''
`` I 'm so glad we come this way , '' say Anne , the shining-eyed .
`` This be my adopted birthday , you know , and this garden and it story be the birthday gift it have give me .
Did your mother ever tell you what Hester Gray look like , Diana ? ''
`` No ... only just that she be pretty . ''
`` I 'm rather glad of that , because I can imagine what she look like , without be hamper by fact .
I think she be very slight and small , with softly curl dark hair and big , sweet , timid brown eye , and a little wistful , pale face . ''
The girl leave their basket in Hester 's garden and spend the rest of the afternoon rambling in the wood and field surround it , discover many pretty nook and lane .
When they get hungry they have lunch in the pretty spot of all ... on the steep bank of a gurgling brook where white birch shoot up out of long feathery grass .
The girl sit down by the root and do full justice to Anne 's dainty , even the unpoetical sandwich be greatly appreciate by hearty , unspoiled appetite sharpen by all the fresh air and exercise they have enjoy .
Anne have bring glass and lemonade for her guest , but for her own part drank cold brook water from a cup fashion out of birch bark .
The cup leak , and the water taste of earth , a brook water be apt to do in spring ; but Anne think it more appropriate to the occasion than lemonade .
`` Look do you see that poem ? ''
she say suddenly , point .
`` Where ? ''
Jane and Diana star , a if expect to see Runic rhyme on the birch tree .
`` There ... down in the brook ... that old green , mossy log with the water flow over it in those smooth ripple that look a if they 'd be comb , and that single shaft of sunshine fall right athwart it , far down into the pool .
Oh , it 's the most beautiful poem I ever saw . ''
`` I should rather call it a picture , '' say Jane .
`` A poem be line and verse . ''
`` Oh dear me , no . ''
Anne shake her head with it fluffy wild cherry coronal positively .
`` The line and verse be only the outward garment of the poem and be no more really it than your ruffle and flounce be YOU , Jane .
The real poem be the soul within them ... and that beautiful bit be the soul of an unwritten poem .
It be not every day one see a soul ... even of a poem . ''
`` I wonder what a soul ... a person 's soul ... would look like , '' say Priscilla dreamily .
`` Like that , I should think , '' answer Anne , point to a radiance of sifted sunlight stream through a birch tree .
`` Only with shape and feature of course .
I like to fancy soul a be make of light .
And some be all shot through with rosy stain and quiver ... and some have a soft glitter like moonlight on the sea ... and some be pale and transparent like mist at dawn . ''
`` I read somewhere once that soul be like flower , '' say Priscilla .
`` Then your soul be a golden narcissus , '' say Anne , `` and Diana 's be like a red , red rise .
Jane 's be an apple blossom , pink and wholesome and sweet . ''
`` And your own be a white violet , with purple streak in it heart , '' finish Priscilla .
Jane whisper to Diana that she really could not understand what they be talk about .
Could she ?
The girl go home by the light of a calm golden sunset , their basket fill with narcissus blossom from Hester 's garden , some of which Anne carry to the cemetery next day and lay upon Hester 's grave .
Minstrel robin be whistle in the fir and the frog be sing in the marsh .
All the basin among the hill be brim with topaz and emerald light .
`` Well , we have have a lovely time after all , '' say Diana , a if she have hardly expect to have it when she set out .
`` It have be a truly golden day , '' say Priscilla .
`` I 'm really awfully fond of the wood myself , '' say Jane .
Anne say nothing .
She be look afar into the western sky and thinking of little Hester Gray .
XIV A Danger Averted Anne , walk home from the post office one Friday evening , be join by Mrs. Lynde , who be a usual cumber with all the care of church and state .
`` I 've just be down to Timothy Cotton 's to see if I could get Alice Louise to help me for a few day , '' she say .
`` I have her last week , for , though she 's too slow to stop quick , she 's good than nobody .
But she 's sick and ca n't come .
Timothy 's sit there , too , cough and complain .
He 's be die for ten year and he 'll go on die for ten year more .
That kind ca n't even die and have do with it ... they ca n't stick to anything , even to be sick , long enough to finish it .
They 're a terrible shiftless family and what be to become of them I do n't know , but perhaps Providence do . ''
Mrs. Lynde sigh a if she rather doubt the extent of Providential knowledge on the subject .
`` Marilla be in about her eye again Tuesday , be n't she ?
What do the specialist think of them ? ''
she continue .
`` He be much pleased , '' say Anne brightly .
`` He say there be a great improvement in them and he think the danger of her lose her sight completely be past .
But he say she 'll never be able to read much or do any fine hand-work again .
How be your preparation for your bazaar come on ? ''
The Ladies ' Aid Society be prepare for a fair and supper , and Mrs. Lynde be the head and front of the enterprise .
`` Pretty well ... and that remind me .
Mrs. Allan think it would be nice to fix up a booth like an old-time kitchen and serve a supper of baked bean , doughnut , pie , and so on .
We 're collect old-fashioned fixing everywhere .
Mrs. Simon Fletcher be go to lend u her mother 's braid rug and Mrs. Levi Boulter some old chair and Aunt Mary Shaw will lend u her cupboard with the glass door .
I suppose Marilla will let u have her brass candlestick ?
And we want all the old dish we can get .
Mrs. Allan be specially set on have a real blue willow ware platter if we can find one .
But nobody seem to have one .
Do you know where we could get one ? ''
`` Miss Josephine Barry have one .
I 'll write and ask her if she 'll lend it for the occasion , '' say Anne .
`` Well , I wish you would .
I guess we 'll have the supper in about a fortnight 's time .
Uncle Abe Andrews be prophesy rain and storm for about that time ; and that 's a pretty sure sign we 'll have fine weather . ''
The say `` Uncle Abe , '' it may be mention , be at least like other prophet in that he have small honor in his own country .
He be , in fact , consider in the light of a stand joke , for few of his weather prediction be ever fulfil .
Mr. Elisha Wright , who labor under the impression that he be a local wit , use to say that nobody in Avonlea ever think of look in the Charlottetown daily for weather probability .
No ; they just ask Uncle Abe what it be go to be tomorrow and expect the opposite .
Nothing daunt , Uncle Abe keep on prophesying .
`` We want to have the fair over before the election come off , '' continue Mrs. Lynde , `` for the candidate will be sure to come and spend lot of money .
The Tories be bribe right and leave , so they might as well be give a chance to spend their money honestly for once . ''
Anne be a red-hot Conservative , out of loyalty to Matthew 's memory , but she say nothing .
She know good than to get Mrs. Lynde start on politics .
She have a letter for Marilla , postmark from a town in British Columbia .
`` It 's probably from the child 's uncle , '' she say excitedly , when she get home .
`` Oh , Marilla , I wonder what he say about them . ''
`` The best plan might be to open it and see , '' say Marilla curtly .
A close observer might have think that she be excite also , but she would rather have die than show it .
Anne tear open the letter and glance over the somewhat untidy and poorly write content .
`` He say he ca n't take the child this spring ... he 's be sick most of the winter and his wedding be put off .
He want to know if we can keep them till the fall and he 'll try and take them then .
We will , of course , wo n't we Marilla ? ''
`` I do n't see that there be anything else for u to do , '' say Marilla rather grimly , although she felt a secret relief .
`` Anyhow they 're not so much trouble a they be ... or else we 've get use to them .
Davy have improve a great deal . ''
`` His MANNERS be certainly much well , '' say Anne cautiously , a if she be not prepared to say a much for his moral .
Anne have come home from school the previous evening , to find Marilla away at an Aid meeting , Dora asleep on the kitchen sofa , and Davy in the sitting room closet , blissfully absorb the content of a jar of Marilla 's famous yellow plum preserve ... `` company jam , '' Davy call it ... which he have be forbid to touch .
He look very guilty when Anne pounce on him and whisk him out of the closet .
`` Davy Keith , do n't you know that it be very wrong of you to be eat that jam , when you be tell never to meddle with anything in THAT closet ? ''
`` Yes , I know it be wrong , '' admit Davy uncomfortably , `` but plum jam be awful nice , Anne .
I just peep in and it look so good I think I 'd take just a weeny taste .
I stick my finger in ... '' Anne groan ... `` and lick it clean .
And it be so much good than I 'd ever think that I get a spoon and just SAILED IN . ''
Anne give him such a serious lecture on the sin of steal plum jam that Davy become conscience stricken and promise with repentant kiss never to do it again .
`` Anyhow , there 'll be plenty of jam in heaven , that 's one comfort , '' he say complacently .
Anne nip a smile in the bud .
`` Perhaps there will ... if we want it , '' she say , `` But what make you think so ? ''
`` Why , it 's in the catechism , '' say Davy .
`` Oh , no , there be nothing like THAT in the catechism , Davy . ''
`` But I tell you there be , '' persist Davy .
`` It be in that question Marilla teach me last Sunday .
` Why should we love God ? '
It say , ` Because He make preserve , and redeem u . '
Preserves be just a holy way of say jam . ''
`` I must get a drink of water , '' say Anne hastily .
When she come back it cost her some time and trouble to explain to Davy that a certain comma in the say catechism question make a great deal of difference in the meaning .
`` Well , I think it be too good to be true , '' he say at last , with a sigh of disappointed conviction .
`` And besides , I do n't see when He 'd find time to make jam if it 's one endless Sabbath day , a the hymn say .
I do n't believe I want to go to heaven .
Wo n't there ever be any Saturdays in heaven , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , Saturdays , and every other kind of beautiful day .
And every day in heaven will be more beautiful than the one before it , Davy , '' assure Anne , who be rather glad that Marilla be not by to be shock .
Marilla , it be needless to say , be bring the twin up in the good old way of theology and discourage all fanciful speculation thereupon .
Davy and Dora be teach a hymn , a catechism question , and two Bible verse every Sunday .
Dora learn meekly and recite like a little machine , with perhaps a much understanding or interest a if she be one .
Davy , on the contrary , have a lively curiosity , and frequently ask question which make Marilla tremble for his fate .
`` Chester Sloane say we 'll do nothing all the time in heaven but walk around in white dress and play on harp ; and he say he hop he wo n't have to go till he 's an old man , 'cause maybe he 'll like it good then .
And he think it will be horrid to wear dress and I think so too .
Why ca n't men angels wear trouser , Anne ?
Chester Sloane be interested in those thing , 'cause they 're go to make a minister of him .
He 's get to be a minister 'cause his grandmother leave the money to send him to college and he ca n't have it unless he be a minister .
She think a minister be such a ` spectable thing to have in a family .
Chester say he do n't mind much ... though he 'd rather be a blacksmith ... but he 's bound to have all the fun he can before he begin to be a minister , 'cause he do n't expect to have much afterwards .
I ai n't go to be a minister .
I 'm go to be a storekeeper , like Mr. Blair , and keep heap of candy and banana .
But I 'd rather like go to your kind of a heaven if they 'd let me play a mouth organ instead of a harp .
Do you s ` pose they would ? ''
`` Yes , I think they would if you want it , '' be all Anne could trust herself to say .
The A.V.I.S . meet at Mr. Harmon Andrews ' that evening and a full attendance have be request , since important business be to be discuss .
The A.V.I.S . be in a flourishing condition , and have already accomplish wonder .
Early in the spring Mr. Major Spencer have redeem his promise and have stump , grade , and seed down all the road front of his farm .
A dozen other men , some prompt by a determination not to let a Spencer get ahead of them , others goad into action by Improvers in their own household , have follow his example .
The result be that there be long strip of smooth velvet turf where once have be unsightly undergrowth or brush .
The farm front that have not be do look so badly by contrast that their owner be secretly sham into resolve to see what they could do another spring .
The triangle of ground at the cross road have also be clear and seed down , and Anne 's bed of geranium , unharmed by any maraud cow , be already set out in the center .
Altogether , the Improvers think that they be get on beautifully , even if Mr. Levi Boulter , tactfully approach by a carefully select committee in regard to the old house on his upper farm , do bluntly tell them that he be n't go to have it meddle with .
At this especial meeting they intend to draw up a petition to the school trustee , humbly pray that a fence be put around the school ground ; and a plan be also to be discuss for plant a few ornamental tree by the church , if the fund of the society would permit of it ... for , a Anne say , there be no use in start another subscription as long a the hall remain blue .
The member be assemble in the Andrews ' parlor and Jane be already on her foot to move the appointment of a committee which should find out and report on the price of say tree , when Gertie Pye swept in , pompadour and frilled within an inch of her life .
Gertie have a habit of be late ... `` to make her entrance more effective , '' spiteful people say .
Gertie 's entrance in this instance be certainly effective , for she pause dramatically on the middle of the floor , throw up her hand , roll her eye , and exclaim , `` I 've just hear something perfectly awful .
What DO you think ?
Mr. Judson Parker IS GOING TO RENT ALL THE ROAD FENCE OF HIS FARM TO A PATENT MEDICINE COMPANY TO PAINT ADVERTISEMENTS ON . ''
For once in her life Gertie Pye make all the sensation she desire .
If she have throw a bomb among the complacent Improvers she could hardly have make more .
`` It CA N'T be true , '' say Anne blankly .
`` That 's just what I say when I hear it first , do n't you know , '' say Gertie , who be enjoy herself hugely . ''
I say it could n't be true ... that Judson Parker would n't have the HEART to do it , do n't you know .
But father meet him this afternoon and ask him about it and he say it WAS true .
Just fancy !
His farm be side-on to the Newbridge road and how perfectly awful it will look to see advertisement of pill and plaster all along it , do n't you know ? ''
The Improvers DID know , all too well .
Even the least imaginative among them could picture the grotesque effect of half a mile of board fence adorn with such advertisement .
All thought of church and school ground vanish before this new danger .
Parliamentary rule and regulation be forget , and Anne , in despair , give up try to keep minute at all .
Everybody talk at once and fearful be the hubbub .
`` Oh , let u keep calm , '' implore Anne , who be the most excited of them all , `` and try to think of some way of prevent him . ''
`` I do n't know how you 're go to prevent him , '' exclaim Jane bitterly .
`` Everybody know what Judson Parker be .
He 'd do ANYTHING for money .
He have n't a SPARK of public spirit or ANY sense of the beautiful . ''
The prospect look rather unpromising .
Judson Parker and his sister be the only Parkers in Avonlea , so that no leverage could be exert by family connection .
Martha Parker be a lady of all too certain age who disapprove of young people in general and the Improvers in particular .
Judson be a jovial , smooth-spoken man , so uniformly goodnatured and bland that it be surprise how few friend he have .
Perhaps he have get the good in too many business transaction ... which seldom make for popularity .
He be repute to be very `` sharp '' and it be the general opinion that he `` have n't much principle . ''
`` If Judson Parker have a chance to ` turn an honest penny , ' a he say himself , he 'll never lose it , '' declare Fred Wright .
`` Is there NOBODY who have any influence over him ? ''
ask Anne despairingly .
`` He go to see Louisa Spencer at White Sands , '' suggest Carrie Sloane .
`` Perhaps she could coax him not to rent his fence . ''
`` Not she , '' say Gilbert emphatically .
`` I know Louisa Spencer well .
She do n't ` believe ' in Village Improvement Societies , but she DOES believe in dollar and cent .
She 'd be more likely to urge Judson on than to dissuade him . ''
`` The only thing to do be to appoint a committee to wait on him and protest , '' say Julia Bell , `` and you must send girl , for he 'd hardly be civil to boys ... but I wo n't go , so nobody need nominate me . ''
`` Better send Anne alone , '' say Oliver Sloane .
`` She can talk Judson over if anybody can . ''
Anne protest .
She be willing to go and do the talk ; but she must have others with her `` for moral support . ''
Diana and Jane be therefore appoint to support her morally and the Improvers break up , buzz like angry bee with indignation .
Anne be so worried that she do n't sleep until nearly morning , and then she dream that the trustee have put a fence around the school and paint `` Try Purple Pills '' all over it .
The committee wait on Judson Parker the next afternoon .
Anne plead eloquently against his nefarious design and Jane and Diana support her morally and valiantly .
Judson be sleek , suave , flatter ; pay them several compliment of the delicacy of sunflower ; felt real bad to refuse such charming young lady ... but business be business ; could n't afford to let sentiment stand in the way these hard time .
`` But I 'll tell what I WILL do , '' he say , with a twinkle in his light , full eye .
`` I 'll tell the agent he must use only handsome , tasty color ... red and yellow and so on .
I 'll tell him he must n't paint the ad BLUE on any account . ''
The vanquished committee retire , think thing not lawful to be utter .
`` We have do all we can do and must simply trust the rest to Providence , '' say Jane , with an unconscious imitation of Mrs. Lynde 's tone and manner .
`` I wonder if Mr. Allan could do anything , '' reflect Diana .
Anne shake her head .
`` No , it 's no use to worry Mr. Allan , especially now when the baby 's so sick .
Judson would slip away from him as smoothly a from u , although he HAS take to go to church quite regularly just now .
That be simply because Louisa Spencer 's father be an elder and very particular about such thing . ''
`` Judson Parker be the only man in Avonlea who would dream of rent his fence , '' say Jane indignantly .
`` Even Levi Boulter or Lorenzo White would never stoop to that , tightfisted a they be .
They would have too much respect for public opinion . ''
Public opinion be certainly down on Judson Parker when the fact become known , but that do not help matter much .
Judson chuckle to himself and defy it , and the Improvers be try to reconcile themselves to the prospect of see the pretty part of the Newbridge road deface by advertisement , when Anne rise quietly at the president 's call for report of committee on the occasion of the next meeting of the Society , and announce that Mr. Judson Parker have instruct her to inform the Society that he be NOT go to rent his fence to the Patent Medicine Company .
Jane and Diana star a if they find it hard to believe their ear .
Parliamentary etiquette , which be generally very strictly enforce in the A.V.I.S . , forbid them give instant vent to their curiosity , but after the Society adjourn Anne be besiege for explanation .
Anne have no explanation to give .
Judson Parker have overtake her on the road the precede evening and tell her that he have decide to humor the A.V.I.S . in it peculiar prejudice against patent medicine advertisement .
That be all Anne would say , then or ever afterwards , and it be the simple truth ; but when Jane Andrews , on her way home , confide to Oliver Sloane her firm belief that there be more behind Judson Parker 's mysterious change of heart than Anne Shirley have reveal , she speak the truth also .
Anne have be down to old Mrs. Irving 's on the shore road the precede evening and have come home by a short cut which lead her first over the low-lying shore field , and then through the beech wood below Robert Dickson 's , by a little footpath that run out to the main road just above the Lake of Shining Waters ... know to unimaginative people a Barry 's pond .
Two men be sit in their buggy , rein off to the side of the road , just at the entrance of the path .
One be Judson Parker ; the other be Jerry Corcoran , a Newbridge man against whom , a Mrs. Lynde would have tell you in eloquent italic , nothing shady have ever be PROVED .
He be an agent for agricultural implement and a prominent personage in matter political .
He have a finger ... some people say ALL his finger ... in every political pie that be cook ; and a Canada be on the eve of a general election Jerry Corcoran have be a busy man for many week , canvass the county in the interest of his party 's candidate .
Just a Anne emerge from under the overhang beech bough she hear Corcoran say , `` If you 'll vote for Amesbury , Parker ... well , I 've a note for that pair of harrow you 've get in the spring .
I suppose you would n't object to have it back , eh ? ''
`` We ... ll , since you put it in that way , '' drawl Judson with a grin , `` I reckon I might as well do it .
A man must look out for his own interest in these hard time . ''
Both saw Anne at this moment and conversation abruptly cease .
Anne bow frostily and walk on , with her chin slightly more tilted than usual .
Soon Judson Parker overtake her .
`` Have a lift , Anne ? ''
he inquire genially .
`` Thank you , no , '' say Anne politely , but with a fine , needle-like disdain in her voice that pierce even Judson Parker 's none too sensitive consciousness .
His face redden and he twitch his rein angrily ; but the next second prudential consideration check him .
He look uneasily at Anne , a she walk steadily on , glance neither to the right nor to the left .
Had she hear Corcoran 's unmistakable offer and his own too plain acceptance of it ?
Confound Corcoran !
If he could n't put his mean into less dangerous phrase he 'd get into trouble some of these long-come-shorts .
And confound redheaded school-ma ` am with a habit of pop out of beechwood where they have no business to be .
If Anne have hear , Judson Parker , measure her corn in his own half bushel , a the country say go , and cheat himself thereby , a such people generally do , believe that she would tell it far and wide .
Now , Judson Parker , a have be see , be not overly regardful of public opinion ; but to be know a have accept a bribe would be a nasty thing ; and if it ever reach Isaac Spencer 's ear farewell forever to all hope of win Louisa Jane with her comfortable prospect a the heiress of a well-to-do farmer .
Judson Parker know that Mr. Spencer look somewhat askance at him a it be ; he could not afford to take any risk .
`` Ahem ... Anne , I 've be want to see you about that little matter we be discuss the other day .
I 've decide not to let my fence to that company after all .
A society with an aim like yours ought to be encourage . ''
Anne thaw out the mere trifle .
`` Thank you , '' she say .
`` And ... and ... you need n't mention that little conversation of mine with Jerry . ''
`` I have no intention of mention it in any case , '' say Anne icily , for she would have see every fence in Avonlea paint with advertisement before she would have stoop to bargain with a man who would sell his vote .
`` Just so ... just so , '' agree Judson , imagine that they understand each other beautifully .
`` I do n't suppose you would .
Of course , I be only string Jerry ... he think he 's so all-fired cute and smart .
I 've no intention of vote for Amesbury .
I 'm go to vote for Grant a I 've always do ... you 'll see that when the election come off .
I just lead Jerry on to see if he would commit himself .
And it 's all right about the fence ... you can tell the Improvers that . ''
`` It take all sort of people to make a world , a I 've often hear , but I think there be some who could be spar , '' Anne tell her reflection in the east gable mirror that night .
`` I would n't have mention the disgraceful thing to a soul anyhow , so my conscience be clear on THAT score .
I really do n't know who or what be to be thank for this .
I do nothing to bring it about , and it 's hard to believe that Providence ever work by mean of the kind of politics men like Judson Parker and Jerry Corcoran have . ''
XV The Beginning of Vacation Anne lock the schoolhouse door on a still , yellow evening , when the wind be purr in the spruce around the playground , and the shadow be long and lazy by the edge of the wood .
She drop the key into her pocket with a sigh of satisfaction .
The school year be end , she have be reengaged for the next , with many expression of satisfaction .
... only Mr. Harmon Andrews tell her she ought to use the strap oftener ... and two delightful month of a well-earned vacation beckon her invitingly .
Anne felt at peace with the world and herself a she walk down the hill with her basket of flower in her hand .
Since the early mayflower Anne have never miss her weekly pilgrimage to Matthew 's grave .
Everyone else in Avonlea , except Marilla , have already forget quiet , shy , unimportant Matthew Cuthbert ; but his memory be still green in Anne 's heart and always would be .
She could never forget the kind old man who have be the first to give her the love and sympathy her starve childhood have crave .
At the foot of the hill a boy be sit on the fence in the shadow of the spruce ... a boy with big , dreamy eye and a beautiful , sensitive face .
He swing down and join Anne , smile ; but there be trace of tear on his cheek .
`` I think I 'd wait for you , teacher , because I know you be go to the graveyard , '' he say , slip his hand into hers .
`` I 'm go there , too ... I 'm take this bouquet of geranium to put on Grandpa Irving 's grave for grandma .
And look , teacher , I 'm go to put this bunch of white rose beside Grandpa 's grave in memory of my little mother ... because I ca n't go to her grave to put it there .
But do n't you think she 'll know all about it , just the same ? ''
`` Yes , I be sure she will , Paul . ''
`` You see , teacher , it 's just three year today since my little mother die .
It 's such a long , long time but it hurt just as much a ever ... and I miss her just as much a ever .
Sometimes it seem to me that I just ca n't bear it , it hurt so . ''
Paul 's voice quiver and his lip tremble .
He look down at his rose , hop that his teacher would not notice the tear in his eye .
`` And yet , '' say Anne , very softly , `` you would n't want it to stop hurting ... you would n't want to forget your little mother even if you could . ''
`` No , indeed , I would n't ... that 's just the way I feel .
You 're so good at understand , teacher .
Nobody else understand so well ... not even grandma , although she 's so good to me .
Father understood pretty well , but still I could n't talk much to him about mother , because it make him feel so bad .
When he put his hand over his face I always know it be time to stop .
Poor father , he must be dreadfully lonesome without me ; but you see he have nobody but a housekeeper now and he think housekeeper be no good to bring up little boy , especially when he have to be away from home so much on business .
Grandmothers be well , next to mother .
Someday , when I 'm bring up , I 'll go back to father and we 're never go to be part again . ''
Paul have talk so much to Anne about his mother and father that she felt a if she have know them .
She think his mother must have be very like what he be himself , in temperament and disposition ; and she have an idea that Stephen Irving be a rather reserve man with a deep and tender nature which he keep hidden scrupulously from the world .
`` Father 's not very easy to get acquaint with , '' Paul have say once .
`` I never get really acquaint with him until after my little mother die .
But he 's splendid when you do get to know him .
I love him the best in all the world , and Grandma Irving next , and then you , teacher .
I 'd love you next to father if it be n't my DUTY to love Grandma Irving best , because she 's do so much for me .
YOU know , teacher .
I wish she would leave the lamp in my room till I go to sleep , though .
She take it right out as soon a she tuck me up because she say I must n't be a coward .
I 'm NOT scar , but I 'd RATHER have the light .
My little mother use always to sit beside me and hold my hand till I go to sleep .
I expect she spoil me .
Mothers do sometimes , you know . ''
No , Anne do not know this , although she might imagine it .
She think sadly of HER `` little mother , '' the mother who have think her so `` perfectly beautiful '' and who have die so long ago and be bury beside her boyish husband in that unvisited grave far away .
Anne could not remember her mother and for this reason she almost envy Paul .
`` My birthday be next week , '' say Paul , a they walk up the long red hill , bask in the June sunshine , `` and father write me that he be send me something that he think I 'll like good than anything else he could send .
I believe it have come already , for Grandma be keep the bookcase drawer lock and that be something new .
And when I ask her why , she just look mysterious and say little boy must n't be too curious .
It 's very exciting to have a birthday , be n't it ?
I 'll be eleven .
You 'd never think it to look at me , would you ?
Grandma say I 'm very small for my age and that it 's all because I do n't eat enough porridge .
I do my very best , but Grandma give such generous plateful ... there 's nothing mean about Grandma , I can tell you .
Ever since you and I have that talk about pray go home from Sunday School that day , teacher ... when you say we ought to pray about all our difficulty ... I 've pray every night that God would give me enough grace to enable me to eat every bit of my porridge in the morning .
But I 've never be able to do it yet , and whether it 's because I have too little grace or too much porridge I really ca n't decide .
Grandma say father be bring up on porridge , and it certainly do work well in his case , for you ought to see the shoulder he have .
But sometimes , '' conclude Paul with a sigh and a meditative air `` I really think porridge will be the death of me . ''
Anne permit herself a smile , since Paul be not look at her .
All Avonlea know that old Mrs. Irving be bring her grandson up in accordance with the good , old-fashioned method of diet and moral .
`` Let u hope not , dear , '' she say cheerfully .
`` How be your rock people come on ?
Does the old Twin still continue to behave himself ? ''
`` He HAS to , '' say Paul emphatically .
`` He know I wo n't associate with him if he do n't .
He be really full of wickedness , I think . ''
`` And have Nora find out about the Golden Lady yet ? ''
`` No ; but I think she suspect .
I 'm almost sure she watch me the last time I go to the cave .
I do n't mind if she find out ... it be only for HER sake I do n't want her to ... so that her feeling wo n't be hurt .
But if she be DETERMINED to have her feeling hurt it ca n't be help . ''
`` If I be to go to the shore some night with you do you think I could see your rock people too ? ''
Paul shake his head gravely .
`` No , I do n't think you could see MY rock people .
I 'm the only person who can see them .
But you could see rock people of your own .
You 're one of the kind that can .
We 're both that kind .
YOU know , teacher , '' he add , squeeze her hand chummily .
`` Is n't it splendid to be that kind , teacher ? ''
`` Splendid , '' Anne agree , gray shin eye look down into blue shin one .
Anne and Paul both know `` How fair the realm Imagination open to the view , '' and both know the way to that happy land .
There the rise of joy bloom immortal by dale and stream ; cloud never darken the sunny sky ; sweet bell never jangle out of tune ; and kindred spirit abound .
The knowledge of that land 's geography ... `` east o ' the sun , west o ' the moon '' ... be priceless lore , not to be buy in any market place .
It must be the gift of the good fairy at birth and the year can never deface it or take it away .
It be well to possess it , live in a garret , than to be the inhabitant of palace without it .
The Avonlea graveyard be a yet the grass-grown solitude it have always be .
To be sure , the Improvers have an eye on it , and Priscilla Grant have read a paper on cemetery before the last meeting of the Society .
At some future time the Improvers mean to have the lichened , wayward old board fence replace by a neat wire railing , the grass mown and the leaning monument straighten up .
Anne put on Matthew 's grave the flower she have bring for it , and then go over to the little poplar shade corner where Hester Gray sleep .
Ever since the day of the spring picnic Anne have put flower on Hester 's grave when she visit Matthew 's .
The evening before she have make a pilgrimage back to the little deserted garden in the wood and bring therefrom some of Hester 's own white rose .
`` I think you would like them good than any others , dear , '' she say softly .
Anne be still sit there when a shadow fell over the grass and she look up to see Mrs. Allan .
They walk home together .
Mrs. Allan 's face be not the face of the girlbride whom the minister have bring to Avonlea five year before .
It have lose some of it bloom and youthful curve , and there be fine , patient line about eye and mouth .
A tiny grave in that very cemetery account for some of them ; and some new one have come during the recent illness , now happily over , of her little son .
But Mrs. Allan 's dimple be a sweet and sudden a ever , her eye a clear and bright and true ; and what her face lack of girlish beauty be now more than atone for in added tenderness and strength .
`` I suppose you be look forward to your vacation , Anne ? ''
she say , a they leave the graveyard .
Anne nod .
`` Yes ... I could roll the word a a sweet morsel under my tongue .
I think the summer be go to be lovely .
For one thing , Mrs. Morgan be come to the Island in July and Priscilla be go to bring her up .
I feel one of my old ` thrill ' at the mere thought . ''
`` I hope you 'll have a good time , Anne .
You 've work very hard this past year and you have succeed . ''
`` Oh , I do n't know .
I 've come so far short in so many thing .
I have n't do what I mean to do when I begin to teach last fall .
I have n't live up to my ideal . ''
`` None of u ever do , '' say Mrs. Allan with a sigh .
`` But then , Anne , you know what Lowell say , ` Not failure but low aim be crime . '
We must have ideal and try to live up to them , even if we never quite succeed .
Life would be a sorry business without them .
With them it 's grand and great .
Hold fast to your ideal , Anne . ''
`` I shall try .
But I have to let go most of my theory , '' say Anne , laugh a little .
`` I have the most beautiful set of theory you ever know when I start out a a schoolma'am , but every one of them have fail me at some pinch or another . ''
`` Even the theory on corporal punishment , '' tease Mrs. Allan .
But Anne flush .
`` I shall never forgive myself for whip Anthony . ''
`` Nonsense , dear , he deserve it .
And it agree with him .
You have have no trouble with him since and he have come to think there 's nobody like you .
Your kindness win his love after the idea that a ` girl be no good ' be root out of his stubborn mind . ''
`` He may have deserve it , but that be not the point .
If I have calmly and deliberately decide to whip him because I think it a just punishment for him I would not feel over it a I do .
But the truth be , Mrs. Allan , that I just fly into a temper and whip him because of that .
I be n't think whether it be just or unjust ... even if he have n't deserve it I 'd have do it just the same .
That be what humiliate me . ''
`` Well , we all make mistake , dear , so just put it behind you .
We should regret our mistake and learn from them , but never carry them forward into the future with u .
There go Gilbert Blythe on his wheel ... home for his vacation too , I suppose .
How be you and he get on with your study ? ''
`` Pretty well .
We plan to finish the Virgil tonight ... there be only twenty line to do .
Then we be not go to study any more until September . ''
`` Do you think you will ever get to college ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know . ''
Anne look dreamily afar to the opal-tinted horizon .
`` Marilla 's eye will never be much good than they be now , although we be so thankful to think that they will not get bad .
And then there be the twin ... somehow I do n't believe their uncle will ever really send for them .
Perhaps college may be around the bend in the road , but I have n't get to the bend yet and I do n't think much about it l I might grow discontent . ''
`` Well , I should like to see you go to college , Anne ; but if you never do , do n't be discontent about it .
We make our own life wherever we be , after all ... college can only help u to do it more easily .
They be broad or narrow accord to what we put into them , not what we get out .
Life be rich and full here ... everywhere ... if we can only learn how to open our whole heart to it richness and fulness . ''
`` I think I understand what you mean , '' say Anne thoughtfully , `` and I know I have so much to feel thankful for ... oh , so much ... my work , and Paul Irving , and the dear twin , and all my friend .
Do you know , Mrs. Allan , I 'm so thankful for friendship .
It beautify life so much . ''
`` True friendship be a very helpful thing indeed , '' say Mrs. Allan , `` and we should have a very high ideal of it , and never sully it by any failure in truth and sincerity .
I fear the name of friendship be often degrade to a kind of intimacy that have nothing of real friendship in it . ''
`` Yes ... like Gertie Pye 's and Julia Bell 's .
They be very intimate and go everywhere together ; but Gertie be always say nasty thing of Julia behind her back and everybody think she be jealous of her because she be always so pleased when anybody criticize Julia .
I think it be desecration to call that friendship .
If we have friend we should look only for the best in them and give them the best that be in u , do n't you think ?
Then friendship would be the most beautiful thing in the world . ''
`` Friendship IS very beautiful , '' smile Mrs. Allan , `` but some day ... '' Then she pause abruptly .
In the delicate , white-browed face beside her , with it candid eye and mobile feature , there be still far more of the child than of the woman .
Anne 's heart so far harbor only dream of friendship and ambition , and Mrs. Allan do not wish to brush the bloom from her sweet unconsciousness .
So she leave her sentence for the future year to finish .
XVI The Substance of Things Hoped For `` Anne , '' say Davy appealingly , scramble up on the shiny , leather-covered sofa in the Green Gables kitchen , where Anne sit , read a letter , `` Anne , I 'm AWFUL hungry .
You 've no idea . ''
`` I 'll get you a piece of bread and butter in a minute , '' say Anne absently .
Her letter evidently contain some exciting news , for her cheek be as pink a the rose on the big bush outside , and her eye be as starry a only Anne 's eye could be .
`` But I ai n't bread and butter hungry , '' say Davy in a disgusted tone .
`` I 'm plum cake hungry . ''
`` Oh , '' laugh Anne , lay down her letter and put her arm about Davy to give him a squeeze , `` that 's a kind of hunger that can be endure very comfortably , Davy-boy .
You know it 's one of Marilla 's rule that you ca n't have anything but bread and butter between meal . ''
`` Well , gim me a piece then ... please . ''
Davy have be at last taught to say `` please , '' but he generally tack it on a an afterthought .
He look with approval at the generous slice Anne presently bring to him .
`` You always put such a nice lot of butter on it , Anne .
Marilla spread it pretty thin .
It slip down a lot easy when there 's plenty of butter . ''
The slice `` slip down '' with tolerable ease , judge from it rapid disappearance .
Davy slide head first off the sofa , turn a double somersault on the rug , and then sit up and announce decidedly , `` Anne , I 've make up my mind about heaven .
I do n't want to go there . ''
`` Why not ? ''
ask Anne gravely .
`` Cause heaven be in Simon Fletcher 's garret , and I do n't like Simon Fletcher . ''
`` Heaven in ... Simon Fletcher 's garret ! ''
gasp Anne , too amazed even to laugh .
`` Davy Keith , whatever put such an extraordinary idea into your head ? ''
`` Milty Boulter say that 's where it be .
It be last Sunday in Sunday School .
The lesson be about Elijah and Elisha , and I up and ask Miss Rogerson where heaven be .
Miss Rogerson look awful offend .
She be cross anyhow , because when she 'd ask u what Elijah leave Elisha when he go to heaven Milty Boulter say , ` His old clo'es , ' and u fellows all laugh before we think .
I wish you could think first and do thing afterwards , 'cause then you would n't do them .
But Milty do n't mean to be disrespeckful .
He just could n't think of the name of the thing .
Miss Rogerson say heaven be where God be and I be n't to ask question like that .
Milty nudge me and say in a whisper , ` Heaven 's in Uncle Simon 's garret and I 'll esplain about it on the road home . '
So when we be come home he esplained .
Milty 's a great hand at esplaining thing .
Even if he do n't know anything about a thing he 'll make up a lot of stuff and so you get it esplained all the same .
His mother be Mrs. Simon 's sister and he go with her to the funeral when his cousin , Jane Ellen , die .
The minister say she 'd go to heaven , though Milty say she be lie right before them in the coffin .
But he s ` pose they carry the coffin to the garret afterwards .
Well , when Milty and his mother go upstairs after it be all over to get her bonnet he ask her where heaven be that Jane Ellen have go to , and she point right to the ceiling and say , ` Up there . '
Milty know there be n't anything but the garret over the ceiling , so that 's how HE find out .
And he 's be awful scared to go to his Uncle Simon 's ever since . ''
Anne take Davy on her knee and do her best to straighten out this theological tangle also .
She be much good fit for the task than Marilla , for she remember her own childhood and have an instinctive understanding of the curious idea that seven-year-olds sometimes get about matter that be , of course , very plain and simple to grow up people .
She have just succeed in convince Davy that heaven be NOT in Simon Fletcher 's garret when Marilla come in from the garden , where she and Dora have be pick pea .
Dora be an industrious little soul and never happy than when `` help '' in various small task suit to her chubby finger .
She feed chicken , pick up chip , wipe dish , and run errand galore .
She be neat , faithful and observant ; she never have to be tell how to do a thing twice and never forget any of her little duty .
Davy , on the other hand , be rather heedless and forgetful ; but he have the born knack of win love , and even yet Anne and Marilla like him the good .
While Dora proudly shell the pea and Davy make boat of the pod , with mast of match and sail of paper , Anne tell Marilla about the wonderful content of her letter .
`` Oh , Marilla , what do you think ?
I 've have a letter from Priscilla and she say that Mrs. Morgan be on the Island , and that if it be fine Thursday they be go to drive up to Avonlea and will reach here about twelve .
They will spend the afternoon with u and go to the hotel at White Sands in the evening , because some of Mrs. Morgan 's American friend be stay there .
Oh , Marilla , be n't it wonderful ?
I can hardly believe I 'm not dream . ''
`` I daresay Mrs. Morgan be a lot like other people , '' say Marilla drily , although she do feel a trifle excite herself .
Mrs. Morgan be a famous woman and a visit from her be no commonplace occurrence .
`` They 'll be here to dinner , then ? ''
`` Yes ; and oh , Marilla , may I cook every bit of the dinner myself ?
I want to feel that I can do something for the author of ` The Rosebud Garden , ' if it be only to cook a dinner for her .
You wo n't mind , will you ? ''
`` Goodness , I 'm not so fond of stew over a hot fire in July that it would vex me very much to have someone else do it .
You 're quite welcome to the job . ''
`` Oh , thank you , '' say Anne , a if Marilla have just confer a tremendous favor , `` I 'll make out the menu this very night . ''
`` You 'd better not try to put on too much style , '' warn Marilla , a little alarmed by the high-flown sound of ` menu . '
`` You 'll likely come to grief if you do . ''
`` Oh , I 'm not go to put on any ` style , ' if you mean try to do or have thing we do n't usually have on festal occasion , '' assure Anne .
`` That would be affectation , and , although I know I have n't as much sense and steadiness a a girl of seventeen and a schoolteacher ought to have , I 'm not so silly a THAT .
But I want to have everything a nice and dainty a possible .
Davy-boy , do n't leave those peapods on the back stair ... someone might slip on them .
I 'll have a light soup to begin with ... you know I can make lovely cream-of-onion soup ... and then a couple of roast fowl .
I 'll have the two white rooster .
I have real affection for those rooster and they 've be pet ever since the gray hen hatch out just the two of them ... little ball of yellow down .
But I know they would have to be sacrifice sometime , and surely there could n't be a worthy occasion than this .
But oh , Marilla , I can not kill them ... not even for Mrs. Morgan 's sake .
I 'll have to ask John Henry Carter to come over and do it for me . ''
`` I 'll do it , '' volunteer Davy , `` if Marilla 'll hold them by the leg , 'cause I guess it 'd take both my hand to manage the axe .
It 's awful jolly fun to see them hop about after their head be cut off . ''
`` Then I 'll have pea and bean and cream potato and a lettuce salad , for vegetable , '' resume Anne , `` and for dessert , lemon pie with whipped cream , and coffee and cheese and lady finger .
I 'll make the pie and lady finger tomorrow and do up my white muslin dress .
And I must tell Diana tonight , for she 'll want to do up hers .
Mrs. Morgan 's heroine be nearly always dress in white muslin , and Diana and I have always resolve that that be what we would wear if we ever meet her .
It will be such a delicate compliment , do n't you think ?
Davy , dear , you must n't poke peapods into the crack of the floor .
I must ask Mr. and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy to dinner , too , for they 're all very anxious to meet Mrs. Morgan .
It 's so fortunate she 's come while Miss Stacy be here .
Davy dear , do n't sail the peapods in the water bucket ... go out to the trough .
Oh , I do hope it will be fine Thursday , and I think it will , for Uncle Abe say last night when he call at Mr. Harrison 's , that it be go to rain most of this week . ''
`` That 's a good sign , '' agree Marilla .
Anne run across to Orchard Slope that even to tell the news to Diana , who be also very much excite over it , and they discuss the matter in the hammock swung under the big willow in the Barry garden .
`` Oh , Anne , may n't I help you cook the dinner ? ''
implored Diana .
`` You know I can make splendid lettuce salad . ''
`` Indeed you , may '' say Anne unselfishly .
`` And I shall want you to help me decorate too .
I mean to have the parlor simply a BOWER of blossom ... and the dining table be to be adorn with wild rose .
Oh , I do hope everything will go smoothly .
Mrs. Morgan 's heroine NEVER get into scrape or be take at a disadvantage , and they be always so selfpossessed and such good housekeeper .
They seem to be BORN good housekeeper .
You remember that Gertrude in ` Edgewood Days ' kept house for her father when she be only eight year old .
When I be eight year old I hardly know how to do a thing except bring up child .
Mrs. Morgan must be an authority on girl when she have write so much about them , and I do want her to have a good opinion of u .
I 've imagine it all out a dozen different way ... what she 'll look like , and what she 'll say , and what I 'll say .
And I 'm so anxious about my nose .
There be seven freckle on it , a you can see .
They come at the A.V.I S. picnic , when I go around in the sun without my hat .
I suppose it 's ungrateful of me to worry over them , when I should be thankful they 're not spread all over my face a they once be ; but I do wish they have n't come ... all Mrs. Morgan 's heroine have such perfect complexion .
I ca n't recall a freckled one among them . ''
`` Yours be not very noticeable , '' comfort Diana .
`` Try a little lemon juice on them tonight . ''
The next day Anne make her pie and lady finger , do up her muslin dress , and swept and dust every room in the house ... a quite unnecessary proceeding , for Green Gables be , a usual , in the apple pie order dear to Marilla 's heart .
But Anne felt that a fleck of dust would be a desecration in a house that be to be honor by a visit from Charlotte E. Morgan .
She even clean out the `` catch-all '' closet under the stair , although there be not the remote possibility of Mrs. Morgan 's see it interior .
`` But I want to FEEL that it be in perfect order , even if she be n't to see it , '' Anne tell Marilla .
`` You know , in her book ` Golden Keys , ' she make her two heroine Alice and Louisa take for their motto that verse of Longfellow 's , ` In the elder day of art Builders work with great care Each minute and unseen part , For the god see everywhere , ' and so they always keep their cellar stair scrub and never forget to sweep under the bed .
I should have a guilty conscience if I think this closet be in disorder when Mrs. Morgan be in the house .
Ever since we read ` Golden Keys , ' last April , Diana and I have take that verse for our motto too . ''
That night John Henry Carter and Davy between them contrive to execute the two white rooster , and Anne dress them , the usually distasteful task glorify in her eye by the destination of the plump bird .
`` I do n't like pick fowl , '' she tell Marilla , `` but be n't it fortunate we do n't have to put our soul into what our hand may be do ?
I 've be pick chicken with my hand but in imagination I 've be roam the Milky Way . ''
`` I think you 'd scatter more feather over the floor than usual , '' remark Marilla .
Then Anne put Davy to bed and make him promise that he would behave perfectly the next day .
`` If I 'm as good a good can be all day tomorrow will you let me be just as bad a I like all the next day ? ''
ask Davy .
`` I could n't do that , '' say Anne discreetly , `` but I 'll take you and Dora for a row in the flat right to the bottom of the pond , and we 'll go ashore on the sandhills and have a picnic . ''
`` It 's a bargain , '' say Davy .
`` I 'll be good , you bet .
I mean to go over to Mr. Harrison 's and fire pea from my new popgun at Ginger but another day 'll do as well .
I espect it will be just like Sunday , but a picnic at the shore 'll make up for THAT . ''
XVII A Chapter of Accidents Anne wake three time in the night and make pilgrimage to her window to make sure that Uncle Abe 's prediction be not come true .
Finally the morning dawn pearly and lustrous in a sky full of silver sheen and radiance , and the wonderful day have arrive .
Diana appear soon after breakfast , with a basket of flower over one arm and HER muslin dress over the other ... for it would not do to don it until all the dinner preparation be complete .
Meanwhile she wear her afternoon pink print and a lawn apron fearfully and wonderfully ruffle and frilled ; and very neat and pretty and rosy she be .
`` You look simply sweet , '' say Anne admiringly .
Diana sigh .
`` But I 've have to let out every one of my dress AGAIN .
I weigh four pound more than I do in July .
Anne , WHERE will this end ?
Mrs. Morgan 's heroine be all tall and slender . ''
`` Well , let 's forget our trouble and think of our mercy , '' say Anne gaily .
`` Mrs. Allan say that whenever we think of anything that be a trial to u we should also think of something nice that we can set over against it .
If you be slightly too plump you 've get the dear dimple ; and if I have a freckle nose the SHAPE of it be all right .
Do you think the lemon juice do any good ? ''
`` Yes , I really think it do , '' say Diana critically ; and , much elate , Anne lead the way to the garden , which be full of airy shadow and waver golden light .
`` We 'll decorate the parlor first .
We have plenty of time , for Priscilla say they 'd be here about twelve or half past at the late , so we 'll have dinner at one . ''
There may have be two happy and more excited girl somewhere in Canada or the United States at that moment , but I doubt it .
Every snip of the scissors , a rise and peony and bluebell fell , seem to chirp , `` Mrs. Morgan be come today . ''
Anne wonder how Mr. Harrison COULD go on placidly mow hay in the field across the lane , just a if nothing be go to happen .
The parlor at Green Gables be a rather severe and gloomy apartment , with rigid horsehair furniture , stiff lace curtain , and white antimacassar that be always lay at a perfectly correct angle , except at such time a they cling to unfortunate people 's button .
Even Anne have never be able to infuse much grace into it , for Marilla would not permit any alteration .
But it be wonderful what flower can accomplish if you give them a fair chance ; when Anne and Diana finish with the room you would not have recognize it .
A great blue bowlful of snowball overflow on the polished table .
The shin black mantelpiece be heap with rose and fern .
Every shelf of the what-not hold a sheaf of bluebell ; the dark corner on either side of the grate be light up with jar full of glow crimson peony , and the grate itself be aflame with yellow poppy .
All this splendor and color , mingle with the sunshine fall through the honeysuckle vine at the window in a leafy riot of dance shadow over wall and floor , make of the usually dismal little room the veritable `` bower '' of Anne 's imagination , and even extort a tribute of admiration from Marilla , who come in to criticize and remain to praise .
`` Now , we must set the table , '' say Anne , in the tone of a priestess about to perform some sacred rite in honor of a divinity .
`` We 'll have a big vaseful of wild rose in the center and one single rise in front of everybody 's plate -- and a special bouquet of rosebud only by Mrs. Morgan 's -- an allusion to ` The Rosebud Garden ' you know . ''
The table be set in the sitting room , with Marilla 's fine linen and the best china , glass , and silver .
You may be perfectly certain that every article place on it be polish or scour to the high possible perfection of gloss and glitter .
Then the girl trip out to the kitchen , which be fill with appetizing odor emanate from the oven , where the chicken be already sizzle splendidly .
Anne prepare the potato and Diana get the pea and bean ready .
Then , while Diana shut herself into the pantry to compound the lettuce salad , Anne , whose cheek be already begin to glow crimson , a much with excitement a from the heat of the fire , prepare the bread sauce for the chicken , mince her onion for the soup , and finally whip the cream for her lemon pie .
And what about Davy all this time ?
Was he redeem his promise to be good ?
He be , indeed .
To be sure , he insist on remain in the kitchen , for his curiosity want to see all that go on .
But a he sit quietly in a corner , busily engage in untie the knot in a piece of herring net he have bring home from his last trip to the shore , nobody object to this .
At half past eleven the lettuce salad be make , the golden circle of the pie be heap with whipped cream , and everything be sizzle and bubble that ought to sizzle and bubble .
`` We 'd better go and dress now , '' say Anne , `` for they may be here by twelve .
We must have dinner at sharp one , for the soup must be serve as soon a it 's do . ''
Serious indeed be the toilet rites presently perform in the east gable .
Anne peer anxiously at her nose and rejoice to see that it freckle be not at all prominent , thanks either to the lemon juice or to the unusual flush on her cheek .
When they be ready they look quite a sweet and trim and girlish a ever do any of `` Mrs. Morgan 's heroine . ''
`` I do hope I 'll be able to say something once in a while , and not sit like a mute , '' say Diana anxiously .
`` All Mrs. Morgan 's heroine converse so beautifully .
But I 'm afraid I 'll be tongue-tied and stupid .
And I 'll be sure to say ' I see . '
I have n't often say it since Miss Stacy teach here ; but in moment of excitement it 's sure to pop out .
Anne , if I be to say ' I see ' before Mrs. Morgan I 'd die of mortification .
And it would be almost a bad to have nothing to say . ''
`` I 'm nervous about a good many thing , '' say Anne , `` but I do n't think there be much fear that I wo n't be able to talk . ''
And , to do her justice , there be n't .
Anne shroud her muslin glory in a big apron and go down to concoct her soup .
Marilla have dress herself and the twin , and look more excited than she have ever be know to look before .
At half past twelve the Allans and Miss Stacy come .
Everything be go well but Anne be begin to feel nervous .
It be surely time for Priscilla and Mrs. Morgan to arrive .
She make frequent trip to the gate and look a anxiously down the lane a ever her namesake in the Bluebeard story peer from the tower casement .
`` Suppose they do n't come at all ? ''
she say piteously .
`` Do n't suppose it .
It would be too mean , '' say Diana , who , however , be begin to have uncomfortable misgiving on the subject .
`` Anne , '' say Marilla , come out from the parlor , `` Miss Stacy want to see Miss Barry 's willowware platter . ''
Anne hasten to the sit room closet to get the platter .
She have , in accordance with her promise to Mrs. Lynde , write to Miss Barry of Charlottetown , ask for the loan of it .
Miss Barry be an old friend of Anne 's , and she promptly send the platter out , with a letter exhort Anne to be very careful of it , for she have pay twenty dollar for it .
The platter have serve it purpose at the Aid bazaar and have then be return to the Green Gables closet , for Anne would not trust anybody but herself to take it back to town .
She carry the platter carefully to the front door where her guest be enjoy the cool breeze that blow up from the brook .
It be examine and admire ; then , just a Anne have take it back into her own hand , a terrific crash and clatter sound from the kitchen pantry .
Marilla , Diana , and Anne flee out , the latter pause only long enough to set the precious platter hastily down on the second step of the stair .
When they reach the pantry a truly harrowing spectacle meet their eye ... a guilty look small boy scramble down from the table , with his clean print blouse liberally plaster with yellow filling , and on the table the shattered remnant of what have be two brave , becreamed lemon pie .
Davy have finish ravel out his herring net and have wind the twine into a ball .
Then he have go into the pantry to put it up on the shelf above the table , where he already keep a score or so of similar ball , which , so far a could be discover , serve no useful purpose save to yield the joy of possession .
Davy have to climb on the table and reach over to the shelf at a dangerous angle ... something he have be forbid by Marilla to do , a he have come to grief once before in the experiment .
The result in this instance be disastrous .
Davy slip and come sprawl squarely down on the lemon pie .
His clean blouse be ruin for that time and the pie for all time .
It be , however , an ill wind that blow nobody good , and the pig be eventually the gainer by Davy 's mischance .
`` Davy Keith , '' say Marilla , shake him by the shoulder , `` do n't I forbid you to climb up on that table again ?
Did n't I ? ''
`` I forget , '' whimper Davy .
`` You 've tell me not to do such an awful lot of thing that I ca n't remember them all . ''
`` Well , you march upstairs and stay there till after dinner .
Perhaps you 'll get them sort out in your memory by that time .
No , Anne , never you mind intercede for him .
I 'm not punish him because he spoil your pie ... that be an accident .
I 'm punish him for his disobedience .
Go , Davy , I say . ''
`` Ai n't I to have any dinner ? ''
wail Davy .
`` You can come down after dinner be over and have yours in the kitchen . ''
`` Oh , all right , '' say Davy , somewhat comfort .
`` I know Anne 'll save some nice bone for me , wo n't you , Anne ?
'Cause you know I do n't mean to fall on the pie .
Say , Anne , since they ARE spoil ca n't I take some of the piece upstairs with me ? ''
`` No , no lemon pie for you , Master Davy , '' say Marilla , push him toward the hall .
`` What shall we do for dessert ? ''
ask Anne , look regretfully at the wreck and ruin .
`` Get out a crock of strawberry preserve , '' say Marilla consolingly .
`` There 's plenty of whipped cream leave in the bowl for it . ''
One o'clock come ... but no Priscilla or Mrs. Morgan .
Anne be in an agony .
Everything be do to a turn and the soup be just what soup should be , but could n't be depend on to remain so for any length of time .
`` I do n't believe they 're come after all , '' say Marilla crossly .
Anne and Diana seek comfort in each other 's eye .
At half past one Marilla again emerge from the parlor .
`` Girls , we MUST have dinner .
Everybody be hungry and it 's no use wait any long .
Priscilla and Mrs. Morgan be not come , that 's plain , and nothing be be improve by wait . ''
Anne and Diana set about lift the dinner , with all the zest go out of the performance .
`` I do n't believe I 'll be able to eat a mouthful , '' say Diana dolefully .
`` Nor I .
But I hope everything will be nice for Miss Stacy 's and Mr. and Mrs. Allan 's sake , '' say Anne listlessly .
When Diana dish the pea she taste them and a very peculiar expression cross her face .
`` Anne , do YOU put sugar in these pea ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Anne , mash the potato with the air of one expect to do her duty .
`` I put a spoonful of sugar in .
We always do .
Do n't you like it ? ''
`` But I put a spoonful in too , when I set them on the stove , '' say Diana .
Anne drop her masher and taste the pea also .
Then she make a grimace .
`` How awful !
I never dream you have put sugar in , because I know your mother never do .
I happen to think of it , for a wonder ... I 'm always forget it ... so I pop a spoonful in . ''
`` It 's a case of too many cook , I guess , '' say Marilla , who have listen to this dialogue with a rather guilty expression .
`` I do n't think you 'd remember about the sugar , Anne , for I 'm perfectly certain you never do before ... so I put in a spoonful . ''
The guest in the parlor heard peal after peal of laughter from the kitchen , but they never know what the fun be about .
There be no green pea on the dinner table that day , however .
`` Well , '' say Anne , sober down again with a sigh of recollection , `` we have the salad anyhow and I do n't think anything have happen to the bean .
Let 's carry the thing in and get it over . ''
It can not be say that that dinner be a notable success socially .
The Allans and Miss Stacy exert themselves to save the situation and Marilla 's customary placidity be not noticeably ruffle .
But Anne and Diana , between their disappointment and the reaction from their excitement of the forenoon , could neither talk nor eat .
Anne try heroically to bear her part in the conversation for the sake of her guest ; but all the sparkle have be quench in her for the time be , and , in spite of her love for the Allans and Miss Stacy , she could n't help think how nice it would be when everybody have go home and she could bury her weariness and disappointment in the pillow of the east gable .
There be an old proverb that really seem at time to be inspire ... `` it never rain but it pour . ''
The measure of that day 's tribulation be not yet full .
Just a Mr. Allan have finish return thanks there arise a strange , ominous sound on the stair , a of some hard , heavy object bound from step to step , finish up with a grand smash at the bottom .
Everybody run out into the hall .
Anne give a shriek of dismay .
At the bottom of the stair lay a big pink conch shell amid the fragment of what have be Miss Barry 's platter ; and at the top of the stair kneel a terrified Davy , gaze down with wide-open eye at the havoc .
`` Davy , '' say Marilla ominously , `` do you throw that conch down ON PURPOSE ? ''
`` No , I never do , '' whimper Davy .
`` I be just kneel here , quiet a quiet , to watch you folk through the bannister , and my foot strike that old thing and push it off ... and I 'm awful hungry ... and I do wish you 'd lick a fellow and have do with it , instead of always send him upstairs to miss all the fun . ''
`` Do n't blame Davy , '' say Anne , gather up the fragment with tremble finger .
`` It be my fault .
I set that platter there and forget all about it .
I be properly punish for my carelessness ; but oh , what will Miss Barry say ? ''
`` Well , you know she only buy it , so it be n't the same a if it be an heirloom , '' say Diana , try to console .
The guest go away soon after , feel that it be the most tactful thing to do , and Anne and Diana wash the dish , talk less than they have ever be know to do before .
Then Diana go home with a headache and Anne go with another to the east gable , where she stay until Marilla come home from the post office at sunset , with a letter from Priscilla , write the day before .
Mrs. Morgan have sprain her ankle so severely that she could not leave her room .
`` And oh , Anne dear , '' write Priscilla , `` I 'm so sorry , but I 'm afraid we wo n't get up to Green Gables at all now , for by the time Aunty 's ankle be well she will have to go back to Toronto .
She have to be there by a certain date . ''
`` Well , '' sigh Anne , lay the letter down on the red sandstone step of the back porch , where she be sit , while the twilight rain down out of a dappled sky , `` I always think it be too good to be true that Mrs. Morgan should really come .
But there ... that speech sound as pessimistic a Miss Eliza Andrews and I 'm ashamed of make it .
After all , it be NOT too good to be true ... thing just as good and far good be come true for me all the time .
And I suppose the event of today have a funny side too .
Perhaps when Diana and I be old and gray we shall be able to laugh over them .
But I feel that I ca n't expect to do it before then , for it have truly be a bitter disappointment . ''
`` You 'll probably have a good many more and bad disappointment than that before you get through life , '' say Marilla , who honestly think she be make a comforting speech .
`` It seem to me , Anne , that you be never go to outgrow your fashion of set your heart so on thing and then crash down into despair because you do n't get them . ''
`` I know I 'm too much incline that , way '' agree Anne ruefully .
`` When I think something nice be go to happen I seem to fly right up on the wing of anticipation ; and then the first thing I realize I drop down to earth with a thud .
But really , Marilla , the fly part IS glorious as long a it last ... it 's like soar through a sunset .
I think it almost pay for the thud . ''
`` Well , maybe it do , '' admit Marilla .
`` I 'd rather walk calmly along and do without both fly and thud .
But everybody have her own way of living ... I use to think there be only one right way ... but since I 've have you and the twin to bring up I do n't feel so sure of it .
What be you go to do about Miss Barry 's platter ? ''
`` Pay her back the twenty dollar she pay for it , I suppose .
I 'm so thankful it be n't a cherished heirloom because then no money could replace it . ''
`` Maybe you could find one like it somewhere and buy it for her . ''
`` I 'm afraid not .
Platters as old a that be very scarce .
Mrs. Lynde could n't find one anywhere for the supper .
I only wish I could , for of course Miss Barry would just as soon have one platter a another , if both be equally old and genuine .
Marilla , look at that big star over Mr. Harrison 's maple grove , with all that holy hush of silvery sky about it .
It give me a feeling that be like a prayer .
After all , when one can see star and sky like that , little disappointment and accident ca n't matter so much , can they ? ''
`` Where 's Davy ? ''
say Marilla , with an indifferent glance at the star .
`` In bed .
I 've promise to take him and Dora to the shore for a picnic tomorrow .
Of course , the original agreement be that he must be good .
But he TRIED to be good ... and I have n't the heart to disappoint him . ''
`` You 'll drown yourself or the twin , row about the pond in that flat , '' grumble Marilla .
`` I 've live here for sixty year and I 've never be on the pond yet . ''
`` Well , it 's never too late to mend , '' say Anne roguishly .
`` Suppose you come with u tomorrow .
We 'll shut Green Gables up and spend the whole day at the shore , daffing the world aside . ''
`` No , thank you , '' say Marilla , with indignant emphasis .
`` I 'd be a nice sight , would n't I , row down the pond in a flat ?
I think I hear Rachel pronounce on it .
There 's Mr. Harrison drive away somewhere .
Do you suppose there be any truth in the gossip that Mr. Harrison be go to see Isabella Andrews ? ''
`` No , I 'm sure there be n't .
He just call there one evening on business with Mr. Harmon Andrews and Mrs. Lynde saw him and say she know he be court because he have a white collar on .
I do n't believe Mr. Harrison will ever marry .
He seem to have a prejudice against marriage . ''
`` Well , you can never tell about those old bachelor .
And if he have a white collar on I 'd agree with Rachel that it look suspicious , for I 'm sure he never be see with one before . ''
`` I think he only put it on because he want to conclude a business deal with Harmon Andrews , '' say Anne .
`` I 've hear him say that 's the only time a man need to be particular about his appearance , because if he look prosperous the party of the second part wo n't be so likely to try to cheat him .
I really feel sorry for Mr. Harrison ; I do n't believe he feel satisfy with his life .
It must be very lonely to have no one to care about except a parrot , do n't you think ?
But I notice Mr. Harrison do n't like to be pity .
Nobody do , I imagine . ''
`` There 's Gilbert come up the lane , '' say Marilla .
`` If he want you to go for a row on the pond mind you put on your coat and rubber .
There 's a heavy dew tonight . ''
XVIII An Adventure on the Tory Road `` Anne , '' say Davy , sit up in bed and prop his chin on his hand , `` Anne , where be sleep ?
People go to sleep every night , and of course I know it 's the place where I do the thing I dream , but I want to know WHERE it be and how I get there and back without know anything about it ... and in my nighty too .
Where be it ? ''
Anne be kneel at the west gable window watch the sunset sky that be like a great flower with petal of crocus and a heart of fiery yellow .
She turn her head at Davy 's question and answer dreamily , '' ` Over the mountain of the moon , Down the valley of the shadow . ' ''
Paul Irving would have know the meaning of this , or make a mean out of it for himself , if he do n't ; but practical Davy , who , a Anne often despairingly remark , have n't a particle of imagination , be only puzzled and disgust .
`` Anne , I believe you 're just talk nonsense . ''
`` Of course , I be , dear boy .
Do n't you know that it be only very foolish folk who talk sense all the time ? ''
`` Well , I think you might give a sensible answer when I ask a sensible question , '' say Davy in an injured tone .
`` Oh , you be too little to understand , '' say Anne .
But she felt rather ashamed of say it ; for have she not , in keen remembrance of many similar snub administer in her own early year , solemnly vow that she would never tell any child it be too little to understand ?
Yet here she be do it ... so wide sometimes be the gulf between theory and practice .
`` Well , I 'm do my best to grow , '' say Davy , `` but it 's a thing you ca n't hurry much .
If Marilla be n't so stingy with her jam I believe I 'd grow a lot faster . ''
`` Marilla be not stingy , Davy , '' say Anne severely .
`` It be very ungrateful of you to say such a thing . ''
`` There 's another word that mean the same thing and sound a lot well , but I do n't just remember it , '' say Davy , frown intently .
`` I hear Marilla say she be it , herself , the other day . ''
`` If you mean ECONOMICAL , it 's a VERY different thing from be stingy .
It be an excellent trait in a person if she be economical .
If Marilla have be stingy she would n't have take you and Dora when your mother die .
Would you have like to live with Mrs. Wiggins ? ''
`` You just bet I would n't ! ''
Davy be emphatic on that point .
`` Nor I do n't want to go out to Uncle Richard neither .
I 'd far rather live here , even if Marilla be that long-tailed word when it come to jam , 'cause YOU 'RE here , Anne .
Say , Anne , wo n't you tell me a story ` fore I go to sleep ?
I do n't want a fairy story .
They 're all right for girl , I s ` pose , but I want something excite ... lot of kill and shoot in it , and a house on fire , and i n'trusting thing like that . ''
Fortunately for Anne , Marilla call out at this moment from her room .
`` Anne , Diana 's signaling at a great rate .
You 'd better see what she want . ''
Anne run to the east gable and saw flash of light come through the twilight from Diana 's window in group of five , which mean , accord to their old childish code , `` Come over at once for I have something important to reveal . ''
Anne throw her white shawl over her head and hasten through the Haunted Wood and across Mr. Bell 's pasture corner to Orchard Slope .
`` I 've good news for you , Anne , '' say Diana .
`` Mother and I have just get home from Carmody , and I saw Mary Sentner from Spencer vale in Mr. Blair 's store .
She say the old Copp girl on the Tory Road have a willow-ware platter and she think it 's exactly like the one we have at the supper .
She say they 'll likely sell it , for Martha Copp have never be know to keep anything she COULD sell ; but if they wo n't there 's a platter at Wesley Keyson 's at Spencervale and she know they 'd sell it , but she be n't sure it 's just the same kind a Aunt Josephine 's . ''
`` I 'll go right over to Spencervale after it tomorrow , '' say Anne resolutely , `` and you must come with me .
It will be such a weight off my mind , for I have to go to town day after tomorrow and how can I face your Aunt Josephine without a willow-ware platter ?
It would be even bad than the time I have to confess about jump on the spare room bed . ''
Both girl laugh over the old memory ... concern which , if any of my reader be ignorant and curious , I must refer them to Anne 's early history .
The next afternoon the girl fare forth on their platter hunt expedition .
It be ten mile to Spencervale and the day be not especially pleasant for travel .
It be very warm and windless , and the dust on the road be such a might have be expect after six week of dry weather .
`` Oh , I do wish it would rain soon , '' sigh Anne .
`` Everything be so parch up .
The poor field just seem pitiful to me and the tree seem to be stretch out their hand plead for rain .
As for my garden , it hurt me every time I go into it .
I suppose I should n't complain about a garden when the farmer ' crop be suffer so .
Mr. Harrison say his pasture be so scorch up that his poor cow can hardly get a bite to eat and he feel guilty of cruelty to animals every time he meet their eye . ''
After a wearisome drive the girl reach Spencervale and turn down the `` Tory '' Road ... a green , solitary highway where the strip of grass between the wheel track bore evidence to lack of travel .
Along most of it extent it be line with thick-set young spruce crowd down to the roadway , with here and there a break where the back field of a Spencervale farm come out to the fence or an expanse of stump be aflame with fireweed and goldenrod .
`` Why be it call the Tory Road ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Mr. Allan say it be on the principle of call a place a grove because there be no tree in it , '' say Diana , `` for nobody live along the road except the Copp girl and old Martin Bovyer at the further end , who be a Liberal .
The Tory government run the road through when they be in power just to show they be do something . ''
Diana 's father be a Liberal , for which reason she and Anne never discuss politics .
Green Gables folk have always be Conservatives .
Finally the girl come to the old Copp homestead ... a place of such exceed external neatness that even Green Gables would have suffer by contrast .
The house be a very old-fashioned one , situate on a slope , which fact have necessitate the building of a stone basement under one end .
The house and out-buildings be all whitewash to a condition of blind perfection and not a weed be visible in the prim kitchen garden surround by it white paling .
`` The shade be all down , '' say Diana ruefully .
`` I believe that nobody be home . ''
This prove to be the case .
The girl look at each other in perplexity .
`` I do n't know what to do , '' say Anne .
`` If I be sure the platter be the right kind I would not mind wait until they come home .
But if it be n't it may be too late to go to Wesley Keyson 's afterward . ''
Diana look at a certain little square window over the basement .
`` That be the pantry window , I feel sure , '' she say , `` because this house be just like Uncle Charles ' at Newbridge , and that be their pantry window .
The shade be n't down , so if we climb up on the roof of that little house we could look into the pantry and might be able to see the platter .
Do you think it would be any harm ? ''
`` No , I do n't think so , '' decide Anne , after due reflection , `` since our motive be not idle curiosity . ''
This important point of ethic be settle , Anne prepare to mount the aforesaid `` little house , '' a construction of lathe , with a peaked roof , which have in time past serve a a habitation for duck .
The Copp girl have give up keep duck ... `` because they be such untidy bird '' .
.
.
and the house have not be in use for some year , save a an abode of correction for set hen .
Although scrupulously whitewash it have become somewhat shaky , and Anne felt rather dubious a she scramble up from the vantage point of a keg place on a box .
`` I 'm afraid it wo n't bear my weight , '' she say a she gingerly step on the roof .
`` Lean on the window sill , '' advise Diana , and Anne accordingly lean .
Much to her delight , she saw , a she peer through the pane , a willow-ware platter , exactly such a she be in quest of , on the shelf in front of the window .
So much she saw before the catastrophe come .
In her joy Anne forget the precarious nature of her footing , incautiously cease to lean on the window sill , give an impulsive little hop of pleasure ... and the next moment she have crash through the roof up to her armpit , and there she hang , quite unable to extricate herself .
Diana dash into the duck house and , seize her unfortunate friend by the waist , try to draw her down .
`` Ow ... do n't , '' shriek poor Anne .
`` There be some long splinter stick into me .
See if you can put something under my foot ... then perhaps I can draw myself up . ''
Diana hastily drag in the previously mention keg and Anne find that it be just sufficiently high to furnish a secure rest place for her foot .
But she could not release herself .
`` Could I pull you out if I crawl up ? ''
suggest Diana .
Anne shake her head hopelessly .
`` No ... the splinter hurt too badly .
If you can find an axe you might chop me out , though .
Oh dear , I do really begin to believe that I be bear under an ill-omened star . ''
Diana search faithfully but no axe be to be find .
`` I 'll have to go for help , '' she say , return to the prisoner .
`` No , indeed , you wo n't , '' say Anne vehemently .
`` If you do the story of this will get out everywhere and I shall be ashamed to show my face .
No , we must just wait until the Copp girl come home and bind them to secrecy .
They 'll know where the axe be and get me out .
I 'm not uncomfortable , as long a I keep perfectly still ... not uncomfortable in BODY I mean .
I wonder what the Copp girl value this house at .
I shall have to pay for the damage I 've do , but I would n't mind that if I be only sure they would understand my motive in peep in at their pantry window .
My sole comfort be that the platter be just the kind I want and if Miss Copp will only sell it to me I shall be resign to what have happen . ''
`` What if the Copp girl do n't come home until after night ... or till tomorrow ? ''
suggest Diana .
`` If they 're not back by sunset you 'll have to go for other assistance , I suppose , '' say Anne reluctantly , `` but you must n't go until you really have to .
Oh dear , this be a dreadful predicament .
I would n't mind my misfortune so much if they be romantic , a Mrs. Morgan 's heroine ' always be , but they be always just simply ridiculous .
Fancy what the Copp girl will think when they drive into their yard and see a girl 's head and shoulder stick out of the roof of one of their outhouse .
Listen ... be that a wagon ?
No , Diana , I believe it be thunder . ''
Thunder it be undoubtedly , and Diana , have make a hasty pilgrimage around the house , return to announce that a very black cloud be rise rapidly in the northwest .
`` I believe we 're go to have a heavy thunder-shower , '' she exclaim in dismay , `` Oh , Anne , what will we do ? ''
`` We must prepare for it , '' say Anne tranquilly .
A thunderstorm seem a trifle in comparison with what have already happen .
`` You 'd better drive the horse and buggy into that open shed .
Fortunately my parasol be in the buggy .
Here ... take my hat with you .
Marilla tell me I be a goose to put on my best hat to come to the Tory Road and she be right , a she always be . ''
Diana untie the pony and drive into the shed , just a the first heavy drop of rain fell .
There she sit and watch the result downpour , which be so thick and heavy that she could hardly see Anne through it , hold the parasol bravely over her bare head .
There be not a great deal of thunder , but for the best part of an hour the rain come merrily down .
Occasionally Anne slant back her parasol and wave an encouraging hand to her friend ; But conversation at that distance be quite out of the question .
Finally the rain cease , the sun come out , and Diana venture across the puddle of the yard .
`` Did you get very wet ? ''
she ask anxiously .
`` Oh , no , '' return Anne cheerfully .
`` My head and shoulder be quite dry and my skirt be only a little damp where the rain beat through the lathe .
Do n't pity me , Diana , for I have n't mind it at all .
I keep think how much good the rain will do and how glad my garden must be for it , and imagine what the flower and bud would think when the drop begin to fall .
I imagine out a most interesting dialogue between the aster and the sweet pea and the wild canary in the lilac bush and the guardian spirit of the garden .
When I go home I mean to write it down .
I wish I have a pencil and paper to do it now , because I daresay I 'll forget the best part before I reach home . ''
Diana the faithful have a pencil and discover a sheet of wrap paper in the box of the buggy .
Anne fold up her drip parasol , put on her hat , spread the wrap paper on a shingle Diana hand up , and write out her garden idyl under condition that could hardly be consider a favorable to literature .
Nevertheless , the result be quite pretty , and Diana be `` enrapture '' when Anne read it to her .
`` Oh , Anne , it 's sweet ... just sweet .
DO send it to the ` Canadian Woman . ' ''
Anne shake her head .
`` Oh , no , it would n't be suitable at all .
There be no PLOT in it , you see .
It 's just a string of fancy .
I like write such thing , but of course nothing of the sort would ever do for publication , for editor insist on plot , so Priscilla say .
Oh , there 's Miss Sarah Copp now .
PLEASE , Diana , go and explain . ''
Miss Sarah Copp be a small person , garb in shabby black , with a hat chosen less for vain adornment than for quality that would wear well .
She look as amaze a might be expect on see the curious tableau in her yard , but when she hear Diana 's explanation she be all sympathy .
She hurriedly unlock the back door , produce the axe , and with a few skillfull blow set Anne free .
The latter , somewhat tired and stiff , duck down into the interior of her prison and thankfully emerge into liberty once more .
`` Miss Copp , '' she say earnestly .
`` I assure you I look into your pantry window only to discover if you have a willow-ware platter .
I do n't see anything else -- I do n't LOOK for anything else . ''
`` Bless you , that 's all right , '' say Miss Sarah amiably .
`` You need n't worry -- there 's no harm do .
Thank goodness , we Copps keep our pantry presentable at all time and do n't care who see into them .
As for that old duckhouse , I 'm glad it 's smash , for maybe now Martha will agree to have it take down .
She never would before for fear it might come in handy sometime and I 've have to whitewash it every spring .
But you might as well argue with a post a with Martha .
She go to town today -- I drive her to the station .
And you want to buy my platter .
Well , what will you give for it ? ''
`` Twenty dollar , '' say Anne , who be never mean to match business wit with a Copp , or she would not have offer her price at the start .
`` Well , I 'll see , '' say Miss Sarah cautiously .
`` That platter be mine fortunately , or I 'd never dare to sell it when Martha be n't here .
As it be , I daresay she 'll raise a fuss .
Martha 's the bos of this establishment I can tell you .
I 'm get awful tire of live under another woman 's thumb .
But come in , come in .
You must be real tired and hungry .
I 'll do the best I can for you in the way of tea but I warn you not to expect anything but bread and butter and some cowcumbers .
Martha lock up all the cake and cheese and preserve afore she go .
She always do , because she say I 'm too extravagant with them if company come . ''
The girl be hungry enough to do justice to any fare , and they enjoy Miss Sarah 's excellent bread and butter and `` cowcumbers '' thoroughly .
When the meal be over Miss Sarah say , `` I do n't know a I mind sell the platter .
But it 's worth twenty-five dollar .
It 's a very old platter . ''
Diana give Anne 's foot a gentle kick under the table , meaning , `` Do n't agree -- she 'll let it go for twenty if you hold out . ''
But Anne be not mind to take any chance in regard to that precious platter .
She promptly agree to give twenty-five and Miss Sarah look a if she felt sorry she have n't ask for thirty .
`` Well , I guess you may have it .
I want all the money I can scare up just now .
The fact be -- '' Miss Sarah throw up her head importantly , with a proud flush on her thin cheek -- `` I 'm go to be marry -- to Luther Wallace .
He want me twenty year ago .
I like him real well but he be poor then and father pack him off .
I s ` pose I should n't have let him go so meek but I be timid and frighten of father .
Besides , I do n't know men be so skurse . ''
When the girl be safely away , Diana driving and Anne hold the coveted platter carefully on her lap , the green , rain-freshened solitude of the Tory Road be enliven by ripple of girlish laughter .
`` I 'll amuse your Aunt Josephine with the ` strange eventful history ' of this afternoon when I go to town tomorrow .
We 've have a rather try time but it 's over now .
I 've get the platter , and that rain have lay the dust beautifully .
So ` all 's well that end well . ' ''
`` We 're not home yet , '' say Diana rather pessimistically , `` and there 's no tell what may happen before we be .
You 're such a girl to have adventure , Anne . ''
`` Having adventure come natural to some people , '' say Anne serenely .
`` You just have a gift for them or you have n't . ''
XIX Just a Happy Day `` After all , '' Anne have say to Marilla once , `` I believe the nice and sweet day be not those on which anything very splendid or wonderful or exciting happens but just those that bring simple little pleasure , follow one another softly , like pearl slip off a string . ''
Life at Green Gables be full of just such day , for Anne 's adventure and misadventure , like those of other people , do not all happen at once , but be sprinkle over the year , with long stretch of harmless , happy day between , fill with work and dream and laughter and lesson .
Such a day come late in August .
In the forenoon Anne and Diana row the delighted twin down the pond to the sandshore to pick `` sweet grass '' and paddle in the surf , over which the wind be harp an old lyric learn when the world be young .
In the afternoon Anne walk down to the old Irving place to see Paul .
She find him stretch out on the grassy bank beside the thick fir grove that shelter the house on the north , absorb in a book of fairy tale .
He spring up radiantly at sight of her .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad you 've come , teacher , '' he say eagerly , `` because Grandma 's away .
You 'll stay and have tea with me , wo n't you ?
It 's so lonesome to have tea all by oneself .
YOU know , teacher .
I 've have serious thought of ask Young Mary Joe to sit down and eat her tea with me , but I expect Grandma would n't approve .
She say the French have to be keep in their place .
And anyhow , it 's difficult to talk with Young Mary Joe .
She just laugh and say , ` Well , yous do beat all de kid I ever know . '
That be n't my idea of conversation . ''
`` Of course I 'll stay to tea , '' say Anne gaily .
`` I be die to be ask .
My mouth have be water for some more of your grandma 's delicious shortbread ever since I have tea here before . ''
Paul look very sober .
`` If it depend on me , teacher , '' he say , stand before Anne with his hand in his pocket and his beautiful little face shadow with sudden care , `` You should have shortbread with a right good will .
But it depend on Mary Joe .
I hear Grandma tell her before she leave that she be n't to give me any shortcake because it be too rich for little boy ' stomach .
But maybe Mary Joe will cut some for you if I promise I wo n't eat any .
Let u hope for the best . ''
`` Yes , let u , '' agree Anne , whom this cheerful philosophy suit exactly , `` and if Mary Joe prove hard-hearted and wo n't give me any shortbread it do n't matter in the least , so you be not to worry over that . ''
`` You 're sure you wo n't mind if she do n't ? ''
say Paul anxiously .
`` Perfectly sure , dear heart . ''
`` Then I wo n't worry , '' say Paul , with a long breath of relief , `` especially a I really think Mary Joe will listen to reason .
She 's not a naturally unreasonable person , but she have learn by experience that it do n't do to disobey Grandma 's order .
Grandma be an excellent woman but people must do a she tell them .
She be very much please with me this morning because I manage at last to eat all my plateful of porridge .
It be a great effort but I succeed .
Grandma say she think she 'll make a man of me yet .
But , teacher , I want to ask you a very important question .
You will answer it truthfully , wo n't you ? ''
`` I 'll try , '' promise Anne .
`` Do you think I 'm wrong in my upper story ? ''
ask Paul , a if his very existence depend on her reply .
`` Goodness , no , Paul , '' exclaim Anne in amazement .
`` Certainly you 're not .
What put such an idea into your head ? ''
`` Mary Joe ... but she do n't know I hear her .
Mrs. Peter Sloane 's hired girl , Veronica , come to see Mary Joe last evening and I hear them talk in the kitchen a I be go through the hall .
I hear Mary Joe say , ` Dat Paul , he be de queeres ' leetle boy .
He talk dat queer .
I tink dere 's someting wrong in his upper story . '
I could n't sleep last night for ever so long , thinking of it , and wonder if Mary Joe be right .
I could n't bear to ask Grandma about it somehow , but I make up my mind I 'd ask you .
I 'm so glad you think I 'm all right in my upper story . ''
`` Of course you be .
Mary Joe be a silly , ignorant girl , and you be never to worry about anything she say , '' say Anne indignantly , secretly resolve to give Mrs. Irving a discreet hint a to the advisability of restrain Mary Joe 's tongue .
`` Well , that 's a weight off my mind , '' say Paul .
`` I 'm perfectly happy now , teacher , thanks to you .
It would n't be nice to have something wrong in your upper story , would it , teacher ?
I suppose the reason Mary Joe imago I have be because I tell her what I think about thing sometimes . ''
`` It be a rather dangerous practice , '' admit Anne , out of the depth of her own experience .
`` Well , by and by I 'll tell you the thought I tell Mary Joe and you can see for yourself if there 's anything queer in them , '' say Paul , `` but I 'll wait till it begin to get dark .
That be the time I ache to tell people thing , and when nobody else be handy I just HAVE to tell Mary Joe .
But after this I wo n't , if it make her imagine I 'm wrong in my upper story .
I 'll just ache and bear it . ''
`` And if the ache get too bad you can come up to Green Gables and tell me your thought , '' suggest Anne , with all the gravity that endear her to child , who so dearly love to be take seriously .
`` Yes , I will .
But I hope Davy wo n't be there when I go because he make face at me .
I do n't mind VERY much because he be such a little boy and I be quite a big one , but still it be not pleasant to have face make at you .
And Davy make such terrible one .
Sometimes I be frighten he will never get his face straighten out again .
He make them at me in church when I ought to be think of sacred thing .
Dora like me though , and I like her , but not so well a I do before she tell Minnie May Barry that she mean to marry me when I grow up .
I may marry somebody when I grow up but I 'm far too young to be think of it yet , do n't you think , teacher ? ''
`` Rather young , '' agree teacher .
`` Speaking of marrying , remind me of another thing that have be trouble me of late , '' continue Paul .
`` Mrs. Lynde be down here one day last week have tea with Grandma , and Grandma make me show her my little mother 's picture ... the one father send me for my birthday present .
I do n't exactly want to show it to Mrs. Lynde .
Mrs. Lynde be a good , kind woman , but she be n't the sort of person you want to show your mother 's picture to .
YOU know , teacher .
But of course I obey Grandma .
Mrs. Lynde say she be very pretty but kind of actressy look , and must have be an awful lot young than father .
Then she say , ` Some of these day your pa will be marry again likely .
How will you like to have a new ma , Master Paul ? '
Well , the idea almost take my breath away , teacher , but I be n't go to let Mrs. Lynde see THAT .
I just look her straight in the face ... like this ... and I say , ` Mrs. Lynde , father make a pretty good job of pick out my first mother and I could trust him to pick out just as good a one the second time . '
And I CAN trust him , teacher .
But still , I hope , if he ever do give me a new mother , he 'll ask my opinion about her before it 's too late .
There 's Mary Joe come to call u to tea .
I 'll go and consult with her about the shortbread . ''
As a result of the `` consultation , '' Mary Joe cut the shortbread and add a dish of preserve to the bill of fare .
Anne pour the tea and she and Paul have a very merry meal in the dim old sitting room whose window be open to the gulf breeze , and they talk so much `` nonsense '' that Mary Joe be quite scandalize and tell Veronica the next evening that `` de school mees '' be as queer a Paul .
After tea Paul take Anne up to his room to show her his mother 's picture , which have be the mysterious birthday present keep by Mrs. Irving in the bookcase .
Paul 's little low-ceilinged room be a soft whirl of ruddy light from the sun that be set over the sea and swing shadow from the fir tree that grow close to the square , deep-set window .
From out this soft glow and glamor shone a sweet , girlish face , with tender mother eye , that be hang on the wall at the foot of the bed .
`` That 's my little mother , '' say Paul with love pride .
`` I get Grandma to hang it there where I 'd see it as soon a I open my eye in the morning .
I never mind not have the light when I go to bed now , because it just seem a if my little mother be right here with me .
Father know just what I would like for a birthday present , although he never ask me .
Is n't it wonderful how much father DO know ? ''
`` Your mother be very lovely , Paul , and you look a little like her .
But her eye and hair be darker than yours . ''
`` My eye be the same color a father 's , '' say Paul , fly about the room to heap all available cushion on the window seat , `` but father 's hair be gray .
He have lot of it , but it be gray .
You see , father be nearly fifty .
That 's ripe old age , be n't it ?
But it 's only OUTSIDE he 's old .
INSIDE he 's just as young a anybody .
Now , teacher , please sit here ; and I 'll sit at your foot .
May I lay my head against your knee ?
That 's the way my little mother and I use to sit .
Oh , this be real splendid , I think . ''
`` Now , I want to hear those thought which Mary Joe pronounces so queer , '' say Anne , pat the mop of curl at her side .
Paul never need any coax to tell his thought ... at least , to congenial soul .
`` I think them out in the fir grove one night , '' he say dreamily .
`` Of course I do n't BELIEVE them but I THOUGHT them .
YOU know , teacher .
And then I want to tell them to somebody and there be nobody but Mary Joe .
Mary Joe be in the pantry set bread and I sit down on the bench beside her and I say , ` Mary Joe , do you know what I think ?
I think the evening star be a lighthouse on the land where the fairy dwell . '
And Mary Joe say , ` Well , yous be de queer one .
Dare ai n't no such ting a fairy . '
I be very much provoke .
Of course , I know there be no fairy ; but that need n't prevent my thinking there be .
You know , teacher .
But I try again quite patiently .
I say , ` Well then , Mary Joe , do you know what I think ?
I think an angel walk over the world after the sun set ... a great , tall , white angel , with silvery fold wing ... and sing the flower and bird to sleep .
Children can hear him if they know how to listen . '
Then Mary Joe hold up her hand all over flour and say , ` Well , yous be de queer leetle boy .
Yous make me feel scare . '
And she really do look scar .
I go out then and whisper the rest of my thought to the garden .
There be a little birch tree in the garden and it die .
Grandma say the salt spray kill it ; but I think the dryad belonging to it be a foolish dryad who wander away to see the world and get lose .
And the little tree be so lonely it die of a broken heart . ''
`` And when the poor , foolish little dryad get tire of the world and come back to her tree HER heart will break , '' say Anne .
`` Yes ; but if dryad be foolish they must take the consequence , just a if they be real people , '' say Paul gravely .
`` Do you know what I think about the new moon , teacher ?
I think it be a little golden boat full of dream . ''
`` And when it tip on a cloud some of them spill out and fall into your sleep . ''
`` Exactly , teacher .
Oh , you DO know .
And I think the violet be little snip of the sky that fell down when the angel cut out hole for the star to shine through .
And the buttercup be make out of old sunshine ; and I think the sweet pea will be butterfly when they go to heaven .
Now , teacher , do you see anything so very queer about those thought ? ''
`` No , laddie dear , they be not queer at all ; they be strange and beautiful thought for a little boy to think , and so people who could n't think anything of the sort themselves , if they try for a hundred year , think them queer .
But keep on think them , Paul ... some day you be go to be a poet , I believe . ''
When Anne reach home she find a very different type of boyhood wait to be put to bed .
Davy be sulky ; and when Anne have undress him he bounce into bed and bury his face in the pillow .
`` Davy , you have forget to say your prayer , '' say Anne rebukingly .
`` No , I do n't forget , '' say Davy defiantly , `` but I ai n't go to say my prayer any more .
I 'm go to give up try to be good , 'cause no matter how good I be you 'd like Paul Irving better .
So I might as well be bad and have the fun of it . ''
`` I do n't like Paul Irving BETTER , '' say Anne seriously .
`` I like you just as well , only in a different way . ''
`` But I want you to like me the same way , '' pout Davy .
`` You ca n't like different people the same way .
You do n't like Dora and me the same way , do you ? ''
Davy sit up and reflect .
`` No ... o ... o , '' he admit at last , `` I like Dora because she 's my sister but I like you because you 're YOU . ''
`` And I like Paul because he be Paul and Davy because he be Davy , '' say Anne gaily .
`` Well , I kind of wish I 'd say my prayer then , '' say Davy , convince by this logic .
`` But it 's too much bother get out now to say them .
I 'll say them twice over in the morning , Anne .
Wo n't that do as well ? ''
No , Anne be positive it would not do as well .
So Davy scramble out and kneel down at her knee .
When he have finish his devotion he lean back on his little , bare , brown heel and look up at her .
`` Anne , I 'm good than I use to be . ''
`` Yes , indeed you be , Davy , '' say Anne , who never hesitate to give credit where credit be due .
`` I KNOW I 'm gooder , '' say Davy confidently , `` and I 'll tell you how I know it .
Today Marilla give me two piece of bread and jam , one for me and one for Dora .
One be a good deal big than the other and Marilla do n't say which be mine .
But I give the big piece to Dora .
That be good of me , be n't it ? ''
`` Very good , and very manly , Davy . ''
`` Of course , '' admit Davy , `` Dora be n't very hungry and she only et half her slice and then she give the rest to me .
But I do n't know she be go to do that when I give it to her , so I WAS good , Anne . ''
In the twilight Anne saunter down to the Dryad 's Bubble and saw Gilbert Blythe come down through the dusky Haunted Wood .
She have a sudden realization that Gilbert be a schoolboy no longer .
And how manly he look -- the tall , frank-faced fellow , with the clear , straightforward eye and the broad shoulder .
Anne think Gilbert be a very handsome lad , even though he do n't look at all like her ideal man .
She and Diana have long ago decide what kind of a man they admire and their taste seem exactly similar .
He must be very tall and distinguish look , with melancholy , inscrutable eye , and a melting , sympathetic voice .
There be nothing either melancholy or inscrutable in Gilbert 's physiognomy , but of course that do n't matter in friendship !
Gilbert stretch himself out on the fern beside the Bubble and look approvingly at Anne .
If Gilbert have be ask to describe his ideal woman the description would have answer point for point to Anne , even to those seven tiny freckle whose obnoxious presence still continue to vex her soul .
Gilbert be a yet little more than a boy ; but a boy have his dream a have others , and in Gilbert 's future there be always a girl with big , limpid gray eye , and a face a fine and delicate a a flower .
He have make up his mind , also , that his future must be worthy of it goddess .
Even in quiet Avonlea there be temptation to be meet and face .
White Sands youth be a rather `` fast '' set , and Gilbert be popular wherever he go .
But he mean to keep himself worthy of Anne 's friendship and perhaps some distant day her love ; and he watch over word and thought and deed as jealously a if her clear eye be to pass in judgment on it .
She hold over him the unconscious influence that every girl , whose ideal be high and pure , wield over her friend ; an influence which would endure as long a she be faithful to those ideal and which she would a certainly lose if she be ever false to them .
In Gilbert 's eye Anne 's great charm be the fact that she never stoop to the petty practice of so many of the Avonlea girl -- the small jealousy , the little deceit and rivalry , the palpable bid for favor .
Anne hold herself apart from all this , not consciously or of design , but simply because anything of the sort be utterly foreign to her transparent , impulsive nature , crystal clear in it motif and aspiration .
But Gilbert do not attempt to put his thought into word , for he have already too good reason to know that Anne would mercilessly and frostily nip all attempt at sentiment in the bud -- or laugh at him , which be ten time worse .
`` You look like a real dryad under that birch tree , '' he say teasingly .
`` I love birch tree , '' say Anne , lay her cheek against the creamy satin of the slim bole , with one of the pretty , caress gesture that come so natural to her .
`` Then you 'll be glad to hear that Mr. Major Spencer have decide to set out a row of white birch all along the road front of his farm , by way of encourage the A.V.I.S . , '' say Gilbert .
`` He be talk to me about it today .
Major Spencer be the most progressive and public-spirited man in Avonlea .
And Mr. William Bell be go to set out a spruce hedge along his road front and up his lane .
Our Society be get on splendidly , Anne .
It be past the experimental stage and be an accepted fact .
The old folk be begin to take an interest in it and the White Sands people be talk of start one too .
Even Elisha Wright have come around since that day the Americans from the hotel have the picnic at the shore .
They praise our roadside so highly and say they be so much pretty than in any other part of the Island .
And when , in due time , the other farmer follow Mr. Spencer 's good example and plant ornamental tree and hedge along their road front Avonlea will be the pretty settlement in the province . ''
`` The Aids be talk of take up the graveyard , '' say Anne , `` and I hope they will , because there will have to be a subscription for that , and it would be no use for the Society to try it after the hall affair .
But the Aids would never have stir in the matter if the Society have n't put it into their thought unofficially .
Those tree we plant on the church ground be flourish , and the trustee have promise me that they will fence in the school ground next year .
If they do I 'll have an arbor day and every scholar shall plant a tree ; and we 'll have a garden in the corner by the road . ''
`` We 've succeed in almost all our plan so far , except in get the old Boulter house remove , '' say Gilbert , `` and I 've give THAT up in despair .
Levi wo n't have it take down just to vex u .
There 's a contrary streak in all the Boulters and it 's strongly develop in him . ''
`` Julia Bell want to send another committee to him , but I think the good way will just be to leave him severely alone , '' say Anne sagely .
`` And trust to Providence , a Mrs. Lynde say , '' smile Gilbert .
`` Certainly , no more committee .
They only aggravate him .
Julia Bell think you can do anything , if you only have a committee to attempt it .
Next spring , Anne , we must start an agitation for nice lawn and ground .
We 'll sow good seed betimes this winter .
I 've a treatise here on lawn and lawnmaking and I 'm go to prepare a paper on the subject soon .
Well , I suppose our vacation be almost over .
School open Monday .
Has Ruby Gillis get the Carmody school ? ''
`` Yes ; Priscilla write that she have take her own home school , so the Carmody trustee give it to Ruby .
I 'm sorry Priscilla be not come back , but since she ca n't I 'm glad Ruby have get the school .
She will be home for Saturdays and it will seem like old time , to have her and Jane and Diana and myself all together again . ''
Marilla , just home from Mrs. Lynde 's , be sit on the back porch step when Anne return to the house .
`` Rachel and I have decide to have our cruise to town tomorrow , '' she say .
`` Mr. Lynde be feel well this week and Rachel want to go before he have another sick spell . ''
`` I intend to get up extra early tomorrow morning , for I 've ever so much to do , '' say Anne virtuously .
`` For one thing , I 'm go to shift the feather from my old bedtick to the new one .
I ought to have do it long ago but I 've just keep put it off ... it 's such a detestable task .
It 's a very bad habit to put off disagreeable thing , and I never mean to again , or else I ca n't comfortably tell my pupil not to do it .
That would be inconsistent .
Then I want to make a cake for Mr. Harrison and finish my paper on garden for the A.V.I.S . , and write Stella , and wash and starch my muslin dress , and make Dora 's new apron . ''
`` You wo n't get half do , '' say Marilla pessimistically .
`` I never yet plan to do a lot of thing but something happen to prevent me . ''
XX The Way It Often Happens Anne rise betimes the next morning and blithely greet the fresh day , when the banner of the sunrise be shake triumphantly across the pearly sky .
Green Gables lay in a pool of sunshine , fleck with the dance shadow of poplar and willow .
Beyond the land be Mr. Harrison 's wheatfield , a great , windrippled expanse of pale gold .
The world be so beautiful that Anne spend ten blissful minute hang idly over the garden gate drink the loveliness in .
After breakfast Marilla make ready for her journey .
Dora be to go with her , have be long promise this treat .
`` Now , Davy , you try to be a good boy and do n't bother Anne , '' she straitly charge him .
`` If you be good I 'll bring you a striped candy cane from town . ''
For ala , Marilla have stoop to the evil habit of bribe people to be good !
`` I wo n't be bad on purpose , but s ` posen I 'm bad zacksidentally ? ''
Davy want to know .
`` You 'll have to guard against accident , '' admonish Marilla .
`` Anne , if Mr. Shearer come today get a nice roast and some steak .
If he do n't you 'll have to kill a fowl for dinner tomorrow . ''
Anne nod .
`` I 'm not go to bother cook any dinner for just Davy and myself today , '' she say .
`` That cold ham bone will do for noon lunch and I 'll have some steak fry for you when you come home at night . ''
`` I 'm go to help Mr. Harrison haul dulse this morning , '' announce Davy .
`` He ask me to , and I guess he 'll ask me to dinner too .
Mr. Harrison be an awful kind man .
He 's a real sociable man .
I hope I 'll be like him when I grow up .
I mean BEHAVE like him ... I do n't want to LOOK like him .
But I guess there 's no danger , for Mrs. Lynde say I 'm a very handsome child .
Do you s ` pose it 'll last , Anne ?
I want to know ? ''
`` I daresay it will , '' say Anne gravely .
`` You ARE a handsome boy , Davy , '' ... Marilla look volume of disapproval ... `` but you must live up to it and be just a nice and gentlemanly a you look to be . ''
`` And you tell Minnie May Barry the other day , when you find her cry 'cause some one say she be ugly , that if she be nice and kind and loving people would n't mind her look , '' say Davy discontentedly .
`` Seems to me you ca n't get out of be good in this world for some reason or ` nother .
You just HAVE to behave . ''
`` Do n't you want to be good ? ''
ask Marilla , who have learn a great deal but have not yet learn the futility of ask such question .
`` Yes , I want to be good but not TOO good , '' say Davy cautiously .
`` You do n't have to be very good to be a Sunday School superintendent .
Mr. Bell 's that , and he 's a real bad man . ''
`` Indeed he 's not , '' say Marila indignantly .
`` He be ... he say he be himself , '' asseverate Davy .
`` He say it when he pray in Sunday School last Sunday .
He say he be a vile worm and a miserable sinner and guilty of the black ` niquity .
What do he do that be so bad , Marilla ?
Did he kill anybody ?
Or steal the collection cent ?
I want to know . ''
Fortunately Mrs. Lynde come drive up the lane at this moment and Marilla make off , feel that she have escape from the snare of the fowler , and wish devoutly that Mr. Bell be not quite so highly figurative in his public petition , especially in the hearing of small boy who be always `` want to know . ''
Anne , leave alone in her glory , work with a will .
The floor be sweep , the bed make , the hen feed , the muslin dress wash and hang out on the line .
Then Anne prepare for the transfer of feather .
She mount to the garret and don the first old dress that come to hand ... a navy blue cashmere she have wear at fourteen .
It be decidedly on the short side and a `` skimpy '' a the notable wincey Anne have wear upon the occasion of her debut at Green Gables ; but at least it would not be materially injure by down and feather .
Anne complete her toilet by tie a big red and white spotted handkerchief that have belong to Matthew over her head , and , thus accoutre , betook herself to the kitchen chamber , whither Marilla , before her departure , have help her carry the feather bed .
A cracked mirror hung by the chamber window and in an unlucky moment Anne look into it .
There be those seven freckle on her nose , more rampant than ever , or so it seem in the glare of light from the unshaded window .
`` Oh , I forget to rub that lotion on last night , '' she think .
`` I 'd better run down to the pantry and do it now . ''
Anne have already suffer many thing try to remove those freckle .
On one occasion the entire skin have peel off her nose but the freckle remain .
A few day previously she have find a recipe for a freckle lotion in a magazine and , a the ingredient be within her reach , she straightway compound it , much to the disgust of Marilla , who think that if Providence have place freckle on your nose it be your bounden duty to leave them there .
Anne scurry down to the pantry , which , always dim from the big willow grow close to the window , be now almost dark by reason of the shade drawn to exclude fly .
Anne catch the bottle contain the lotion from the shelf and copiously anoint her nose therewith by mean of a little sponge sacred to the purpose .
This important duty do , she return to her work .
Any one who have ever shift feather from one tick to another will not need to be tell that when Anne finish she be a sight to behold .
Her dress be white with down and fluff , and her front hair , escape from under the handkerchief , be adorn with a veritable halo of feather .
At this auspicious moment a knock sound at the kitchen door .
`` That must be Mr. Shearer , '' think Anne .
`` I 'm in a dreadful mess but I 'll have to run down a I be , for he 's always in a hurry . ''
Down fly Anne to the kitchen door .
If ever a charitable floor do open to swallow up a miserable , befeathered damsel the Green Gables porch floor should promptly have engulf Anne at that moment .
On the doorstep be stand Priscilla Grant , golden and fair in silk attire , a short , stout gray-haired lady in a tweed suit , and another lady , tall stately , wonderfully gown , with a beautiful , highbred face and large , black-lashed violet eye , whom Anne `` instinctively felt , '' a she would have say in her early day , to be Mrs. Charlotte E. Morgan .
In the dismay of the moment one thought stand out from the confusion of Anne 's mind and she grasp at it a at the proverbial straw .
All Mrs. Morgan 's heroine be note for `` rise to the occasion . ''
No matter what their trouble be , they invariably rise to the occasion and show their superiority over all ill of time , space , and quantity .
Anne therefore felt it be HER duty to rise to the occasion and she do it , so perfectly that Priscilla afterward declare she never admire Anne Shirley more than at that moment .
No matter what her outraged feeling be she do not show them .
She greet Priscilla and be introduce to her companion a calmly and composedly a if she have be array in purple and fine linen .
To be sure , it be somewhat of a shock to find that the lady she have instinctively felt to be Mrs. Morgan be not Mrs. Morgan at all , but an unknown Mrs. Pendexter , while the stout little gray-haired woman be Mrs. Morgan ; but in the great shock the less lose it power .
Anne usher her guest to the spare room and thence into the parlor , where she leave them while she hasten out to help Priscilla unharness her horse .
`` It 's dreadful to come upon you so unexpectedly a this , '' apologize Priscilla , `` but I do not know till last night that we be come .
Aunt Charlotte be go away Monday and she have promise to spend today with a friend in town .
But last night her friend telephone to her not to come because they be quarantine for scarlet fever .
So I suggest we come here instead , for I know you be long to see her .
We call at the White Sands Hotel and bring Mrs. Pendexter with u .
She be a friend of aunt 's and live in New York and her husband be a millionaire .
We ca n't stay very long , for Mrs. Pendexter have to be back at the hotel by five o'clock . ''
Several time while they be put away the horse Anne catch Priscilla look at her in a furtive , puzzled way .
`` She need n't stare at me so , '' Anne think a little resentfully .
`` If she do n't KNOW what it be to change a feather bed she might IMAGINE it . ''
When Priscilla have go to the parlor , and before Anne could escape upstairs , Diana walk into the kitchen .
Anne catch her astonished friend by the arm .
`` Diana Barry , who do you suppose be in that parlor at this very moment ?
Mrs. Charlotte E. Morgan ... and a New York millionaire 's wife ... and here I be like THIS ... and NOT A THING IN THE HOUSE FOR DINNER BUT A COLD HAM BONE , Diana ! ''
By this time Anne have become aware that Diana be star at her in precisely the same bewildered fashion a Priscilla have do .
It be really too much .
`` Oh , Diana , do n't look at me so , '' she implore .
`` YOU , at least , must know that the neat person in the world could n't empty feather from one tick into another and remain neat in the process . ''
`` It ... it ... be n't the feather , '' hesitate Diana .
`` It 's ... it 's ... your nose , Anne . ''
`` My nose ?
Oh , Diana , surely nothing have go wrong with it ! ''
Anne rush to the little look glass over the sink .
One glance reveal the fatal truth .
Her nose be a brilliant scarlet !
Anne sit down on the sofa , her dauntless spirit subdue at last .
`` What be the matter with it ? ''
ask Diana , curiosity overcome delicacy .
`` I think I be rub my freckle lotion on it , but I must have use that red dye Marilla have for mark the pattern on her rug , '' be the despairing response .
`` What shall I do ? ''
`` Wash it off , '' say Diana practically .
`` Perhaps it wo n't wash off .
First I dye my hair ; then I dye my nose .
Marilla cut my hair off when I dye it but that remedy would hardly be practicable in this case .
Well , this be another punishment for vanity and I suppose I deserve it ... though there 's not much comfort in THAT .
It be really almost enough to make one believe in ill-luck , though Mrs. Lynde say there be no such thing , because everything be foreordain . ''
Fortunately the dye wash off easily and Anne , somewhat console , betook herself to the east gable while Diana run home .
Presently Anne come down again , clothe and in her right mind .
The muslin dress she have fondly hop to wear be bob merrily about on the line outside , so she be force to content herself with her black lawn .
She have the fire on and the tea steep when Diana return ; the latter wear HER muslin , at least , and carry a covered platter in her hand .
`` Mother sent you this , '' she say , lift the cover and display a nicely carve and joint chicken to Anne 's greatful eye .
The chicken be supplement by light new bread , excellent butter and cheese , Marilla 's fruit cake and a dish of preserved plum , float in their golden syrup a in congealed summer sunshine .
There be a big bowlful of pink-and-white aster also , by way of decoration ; yet the spread seem very meager beside the elaborate one formerly prepare for Mrs. Morgan .
Anne 's hungry guest , however , do not seem to think anything be lack and they eat the simple viand with apparent enjoyment .
But after the first few moment Anne think no more of what be or be not on her bill of fare .
Mrs. Morgan 's appearance might be somewhat disappointing , a even her loyal worshipper have be force to admit to each other ; but she prove to be a delightful conversationalist .
She have travel extensively and be an excellent storyteller .
She have see much of men and woman , and crystalize her experience into witty little sentence and epigram which make her hearer feel a if they be listen to one of the people in clever book .
But under all her sparkle there be a strongly felt undercurrent of true , womanly sympathy and kindheartedness which win affection as easily a her brilliancy win admiration .
Nor do she monopolize the conversation .
She could draw others out a skillfully and fully a she could talk herself , and Anne and Diana find themselves chatter freely to her .
Mrs. Pendexter say little ; she merely smile with her lovely eye and lip , and eat chicken and fruit cake and preserve with such exquisite grace that she convey the impression of din on ambrosia and honeydew .
But then , a Anne say to Diana later on , anybody so divinely beautiful a Mrs. Pendexter do n't need to talk ; it be enough for her just to LOOK .
After dinner they all have a walk through Lover 's Lane and Violet Vale and the Birch Path , then back through the Haunted Wood to the Dryad 's Bubble , where they sit down and talk for a delightful last half hour .
Mrs. Morgan want to know how the Haunted Wood come by it name , and laugh until she cry when she hear the story and Anne 's dramatic account of a certain memorable walk through it at the witch hour of twilight .
`` It have indeed be a feast of reason and flow of soul , have n't it ? ''
say Anne , when her guest have go and she and Diana be alone again .
`` I do n't know which I enjoy more ... listen to Mrs. Morgan or gaze at Mrs. Pendexter .
I believe we have a nicer time than if we 'd know they be come and be cumber with much serving .
You must stay to tea with me , Diana , and we 'll talk it all over . ''
`` Priscilla say Mrs. Pendexter 's husband 's sister be marry to an English earl ; and yet she take a second help of the plum preserve , '' say Diana , a if the two fact be somehow incompatible .
`` I daresay even the English earl himself would n't have turn up his aristocratic nose at Marilla 's plum preserve , '' say Anne proudly .
Anne do not mention the misfortune which have befall HER nose when she relate the day 's history to Marilla that even .
But she take the bottle of freckle lotion and empty it out of the window .
`` I shall never try any beautifying mess again , '' she say , darkly resolute .
`` They may do for careful , deliberate people ; but for anyone so hopelessly give over to make mistake a I seem to be it 's tempt fate to meddle with them . ''
XXI Sweet Miss Lavendar School open and Anne return to her work , with few theory but considerably more experience .
She have several new pupil , six - and seven-year-olds just venture , round-eyed , into a world of wonder .
Among them be Davy and Dora .
Davy sit with Milty Boulter , who have be go to school for a year and be therefore quite a man of the world .
Dora have make a compact at Sunday School the previous Sunday to sit with Lily Sloane ; but Lily Sloane not come the first day , she be temporarily assign to Mirabel Cotton , who be ten year old and therefore , in Dora 's eye , one of the `` big girl . ''
`` I think school be great fun , '' Davy tell Marilla when he get home that night .
`` You say I 'd find it hard to sit still and I do ... you mostly do tell the truth , I notice ... but you can wriggle your leg about under the desk and that help a lot .
It 's splendid to have so many boy to play with .
I sit with Milty Boulter and he 's fine .
He 's long than me but I 'm wider .
It 's nice to sit in the back seat but you ca n't sit there till your leg grow long enough to touch the floor .
Milty draw a picture of Anne on his slate and it be awful ugly and I tell him if he make picture of Anne like that I 'd lick him at recess .
I think first I 'd draw one of him and put horn and a tail on it , but I be afraid it would hurt his feeling , and Anne say you should never hurt anyone 's feeling .
It seem it 's dreadful to have your feeling hurt .
It 's good to knock a boy down than hurt his feeling if you MUST do something .
Milty say he be n't scar of me but he 'd just as soon call it somebody else to ` blige me , so he rub out Anne 's name and print Barbara Shaw 's under it .
Milty do n't like Barbara 'cause she call him a sweet little boy and once she pat him on his head . ''
Dora say primly that she like school ; but she be very quiet , even for her ; and when at twilight Marilla bid her go upstairs to bed she hesitate and begin to cry .
`` I 'm ... I 'm frightened , '' she sob .
`` I ... I do n't want to go upstairs alone in the dark . ''
`` What notion have you get into your head now ? ''
demand Marilla .
`` I 'm sure you 've go to bed alone all summer and never be frighten before . ''
Dora still continue to cry , so Anne pick her up , cuddle her sympathetically , and whisper , `` Tell Anne all about it , sweetheart .
What be you frighten of ? ''
`` Of ... of Mirabel Cotton 's uncle , '' sob Dora .
`` Mirabel Cotton tell me all about her family today in school .
Nearly everybody in her family have die ... all her grandfather and grandmother and ever so many uncle and aunt .
They have a habit of die , Mirabel say .
Mirabel 's awful proud of have so many dead relation , and she tell me what they all die of , and what they say , and how they look in their coffin .
And Mirabel say one of her uncle be see walk around the house after he be bury .
Her mother saw him .
I do n't mind the rest so much but I ca n't help think about that uncle . ''
Anne go upstairs with Dora and sit by her until she fell asleep .
The next day Mirabel Cotton be keep in at recess and `` gently but firmly '' give to understand that when you be so unfortunate a to possess an uncle who persist in walk about house after he have be decently inter it be not in good taste to talk about that eccentric gentleman to your deskmate of tender year .
Mirabel think this very harsh .
The Cottons have not much to boast of .
How be she to keep up her prestige among her schoolmate if she be forbidden to make capital out of the family ghost ?
September slip by into a gold and crimson graciousness of October .
One Friday evening Diana come over .
`` I 'd a letter from Ella Kimball today , Anne , and she want u to go over to tea tomorrow afternoon to meet her cousin , Irene Trent , from town .
But we ca n't get one of our horse to go , for they 'll all be in use tomorrow , and your pony be lame ... so I suppose we ca n't go . ''
`` Why ca n't we walk ? ''
suggest Anne .
`` If we go straight back through the wood we 'll strike the West Grafton road not far from the Kimball place .
I be through that way last winter and I know the road .
It 's no more than four mile and we wo n't have to walk home , for Oliver Kimball will be sure to drive u .
He 'll be only too glad of the excuse , for he go to see Carrie Sloane and they say his father will hardly ever let him have a horse . ''
It be accordingly arrange that they should walk , and the following afternoon they set out , go by way of Lover 's Lane to the back of the Cuthbert farm , where they find a road lead into the heart of acre of glimmer beech and maple wood , which be all in a wondrous glow of flame and gold , lie in a great purple stillness and peace .
`` It 's a if the year be kneel to pray in a vast cathedral full of mellow stain light , be n't it ? ''
say Anne dreamily .
`` It do n't seem right to hurry through it , do it ?
It seem irreverent , like run in a church . ''
`` We MUST hurry though , '' say Diana , glance at her watch .
`` We 've leave ourselves little enough time a it be . ''
`` Well , I 'll walk fast but do n't ask me to talk , '' say Anne , quicken her pace .
`` I just want to drink the day 's loveliness in ... I feel a if she be hold it out to my lip like a cup of airy wine and I 'll take a sip at every step . ''
Perhaps it be because she be so absorbed in `` drink it in '' that Anne take the left turn when they come to a fork in the road .
She should have take the right , but ever afterward she count it the most fortunate mistake of her life .
They come out finally to a lonely , grassy road , with nothing in sight along it but rank of spruce sapling .
`` Why , where be we ? ''
exclaim Diana in bewilderment .
`` This be n't the West Grafton road . ''
`` No , it 's the base line road in Middle Grafton , '' say Anne , rather shamefacedly .
`` I must have take the wrong turning at the fork .
I do n't know where we be exactly , but we must be all of three mile from Kimballs ' still . ''
`` Then we ca n't get there by five , for it 's half past four now , '' say Diana , with a despair look at her watch .
`` We 'll arrive after they have have their tea , and they 'll have all the bother of get ours over again . ''
`` We 'd better turn back and go home , '' suggest Anne humbly .
But Diana , after consideration , vetoed this .
`` No , we may as well go and spend the evening , since we have come this far . ''
A few yard far on the girl come to a place where the road fork again .
`` Which of these do we take ? ''
ask Diana dubiously .
Anne shake her head .
`` I do n't know and we ca n't afford to make any more mistake .
Here be a gate and a lane lead right into the wood .
There must be a house at the other side .
Let u go down and inquire . ''
`` What a romantic old lane this it , '' say Diana , a they walk along it twist and turn .
It run under patriarchal old fir whose branch meet above , create a perpetual gloom in which nothing except moss could grow .
On either hand be brown wood floor , cross here and there by fall lance of sunlight .
All be very still and remote , a if the world and the care of the world be far away .
`` I feel a if we be walk through an enchanted forest , '' say Anne in a hushed tone .
`` Do you suppose we 'll ever find our way back to the real world again , Diana ?
We shall presently come to a palace with a spellbound princess in it , I think . ''
Around the next turn they come in sight , not indeed of a palace , but of a little house almost as surprising a a palace would have be in this province of conventional wooden farmhouse , all as much alike in general characteristic a if they have grow from the same seed .
Anne stop short in rapture and Diana exclaim , `` Oh , I know where we be now .
That be the little stone house where Miss Lavendar Lewis live ... Echo Lodge , she call it , I think .
I 've often hear of it but I 've never see it before .
Is n't it a romantic spot ? ''
`` It 's the sweetest , pretty place I ever saw or imagine , '' say Anne delightedly .
`` It look like a bit out of a story book or a dream . ''
The house be a low-eaved structure build of undressed block of red Island sandstone , with a little peaked roof out of which peer two dormer window , with quaint wooden hood over them , and two great chimney .
The whole house be cover with a luxuriant growth of ivy , find easy foothold on the rough stonework and turn by autumn frost to most beautiful bronze and wine-red tint .
Before the house be an oblong garden into which the lane gate where the girl be stand open .
The house bound it on one side ; on the three others it be enclose by an old stone dyke , so overgrown with moss and grass and ferns that it look like a high , green bank .
On the right and leave the tall , dark spruce spread their palm-like branch over it ; but below it be a little meadow , green with clover aftermath , slop down to the blue loop of the Grafton River .
No other house or clearing be in sight ... nothing but hill and valley cover with feathery young fir .
`` I wonder what sort of a person Miss Lewis be , '' speculate Diana a they open the gate into the garden .
`` They say she be very peculiar . ''
`` She 'll be interesting then , '' say Anne decidedly .
`` Peculiar people be always that at least , whatever else they be or be not .
Did n't I tell you we would come to an enchant palace ?
I know the elf have n't weave magic over that lane for nothing . ''
`` But Miss Lavendar Lewis be hardly a spellbound princess , '' laugh Diana .
`` She 's an old maid ... she 's forty-five and quite gray , I 've hear . ''
`` Oh , that 's only part of the spell , '' assert Anne confidently .
`` At heart she 's young and beautiful still ... and if we only know how to unloose the spell she would step forth radiant and fair again .
But we do n't know how ... it 's always and only the prince who know that ... and Miss Lavendar 's prince have n't come yet .
Perhaps some fatal mischance have befall him ... though THAT 'S against the law of all fairy tale . ''
`` I 'm afraid he come long ago and go away again , '' say Diana .
`` They say she use to be engage to Stephan Irving ... Paul 's father ... when they be young .
But they quarrel and part . ''
`` Hush , '' warn Anne .
`` The door be open . ''
The girl pause in the porch under the tendril of ivy and knock at the open door .
There be a patter of step inside and a rather odd little personage present herself ... a girl of about fourteen , with a freckled face , a snub nose , a mouth so wide that it do really seem a if it stretch `` from ear to ear , '' and two long braid of fair hair tie with two enormous bow of blue ribbon .
`` Is Miss Lewis at home ? ''
ask Diana .
`` Yes , ma'am .
Come in , ma'am .
I 'll tell Miss Lavendar you 're here , ma'am .
She 's upstairs , ma'am . ''
With this the small handmaiden whisk out of sight and the girl , leave alone , look about them with delighted eye .
The interior of this wonderful little house be quite as interesting a it exterior .
The room have a low ceiling and two square , small-paned window , curtain with muslin frill .
All the furnishing be old-fashioned , but so well and daintily keep that the effect be delicious .
But it must be candidly admit that the most attractive feature , to two healthy girl who have just tramp four mile through autumn air , be a table , set out with pale blue china and laden with delicacy , while little golden-hued fern scatter over the cloth give it what Anne would have term `` a festal air . ''
`` Miss Lavendar must be expect company to tea , '' she whisper .
`` There be six place set .
But what a funny little girl she have .
She look like a messenger from pixy land .
I suppose she could have tell u the road , but I be curious to see Miss Lavendar .
S ... s ... sh , she 's come . ''
And with that Miss Lavendar Lewis be stand in the doorway .
The girl be so surprised that they forget good manner and simply star .
They have unconsciously be expect to see the usual type of elderly spinster a know to their experience ... a rather angular personage , with prim gray hair and spectacle .
Nothing more unlike Miss Lavendar could possibly be imagine .
She be a little lady with snow-white hair beautifully wavy and thick , and carefully arrange in become puff and coil .
Beneath it be an almost girlish face , pink cheek and sweet lipped , with big soft brown eye and dimple ... actually dimple .
She wear a very dainty gown of cream muslin with pale-hued rose on it ... a gown which would have seem ridiculously juvenile on most woman of her age , but which suit Miss Lavendar so perfectly that you never think about it at all .
`` Charlotta the Fourth say that you wish to see me , '' she say , in a voice that match her appearance .
`` We want to ask the right road to West Grafton , '' say Diana .
`` We be invite to tea at Mr. Kimball 's , but we take the wrong path come through the wood and come out to the base line instead of the West Grafton road .
Do we take the right or leave turn at your gate ? ''
`` The left , '' say Miss Lavendar , with a hesitate glance at her tea table .
Then she exclaim , a if in a sudden little burst of resolution , `` But oh , wo n't you stay and have tea with me ?
Please , do .
Mr. Kimball 's will have tea over before you get there .
And Charlotta the Fourth and I will be so glad to have you . ''
Diana look mute inquiry at Anne .
`` We 'd like to stay , '' say Anne promptly , for she have make up her mind that she want to know more of this surprising Miss Lavendar , `` if it wo n't inconvenience you .
But you be expect other guest , be n't you ? ''
Miss Lavendar look at her tea table again , and blush .
`` I know you 'll think me dreadfully foolish , '' she say .
`` I AM foolish ... and I 'm ashamed of it when I 'm find out , but never unless I AM find out .
I 'm not expect anybody ... I be just pretend I be .
You see , I be so lonely .
I love company ... that be , the right kind of company .
.
.
but so few people ever come here because it be so far out of the way .
Charlotta the Fourth be lonely too .
So I just pretend I be go to have a tea party .
I cook for it ... and decorate the table for it .
.
.
and set it with my mother 's wedding china ... and I dress up for it . ''
Diana secretly think Miss Lavendar quite as peculiar a report have picture her .
The idea of a woman of forty-five playing at have a tea party , just a if she be a little girl !
But Anne of the shin eye exclaim joyfuly , `` Oh , do YOU imagine thing too ? ''
That `` too '' reveal a kindred spirit to Miss Lavendar .
`` Yes , I do , '' she confess , boldly .
`` Of course it 's silly in anybody as old a I be .
But what be the use of be an independent old maid if you ca n't be silly when you want to , and when it do n't hurt anybody ?
A person must have some compensation .
I do n't believe I could live at time if I do n't pretend thing .
I 'm not often catch at it though , and Charlotta the Fourth never tell .
But I 'm glad to be catch today , for you have really come and I have tea all ready for you .
Will you go up to the spare room and take off your hat ?
It 's the white door at the head of the stair .
I must run out to the kitchen and see that Charlotta the Fourth be n't let the tea boil .
Charlotta the Fourth be a very good girl but she WILL let the tea boil . ''
Miss Lavendar trip off to the kitchen on hospitable thought intent and the girl find their way up to the spare room , an apartment as white a it door , light by the ivy-hung dormer window and look , a Anne say , like the place where happy dream grow .
`` This be quite an adventure , be n't it ? ''
say Diana .
`` And be n't Miss Lavendar sweet , if she IS a little odd ?
She do n't look a bit like an old maid . ''
`` She look just a music sound , I think , '' answer Anne .
When they go down Miss Lavendar be carry in the teapot , and behind her , look vastly please , be Charlotta the Fourth , with a plate of hot biscuit .
`` Now , you must tell me your name , '' say Miss Lavendar .
`` I 'm so glad you be young girl .
I love young girl .
It 's so easy to pretend I 'm a girl myself when I 'm with them .
I do hate '' ... with a little grimace ... `` to believe I 'm old .
Now , who be you ... just for convenience ' sake ?
Diana Barry ?
And Anne Shirley ?
May I pretend that I 've know you for a hundred year and call you Anne and Diana right away ? ''
`` You , may '' the girl say both together .
`` Then just let 's sit comfily down and eat everything , '' say Miss Lavendar happily .
`` Charlotta , you sit at the foot and help with the chicken .
It be so fortunate that I make the sponge cake and doughnut .
Of course , it be foolish to do it for imaginary guest ... I know Charlotta the Fourth think so , do n't you , Charlotta ?
But you see how well it have turn out .
Of course they would n't have be waste , for Charlotta the Fourth and I could have eat them through time .
But sponge cake be not a thing that improve with time . ''
That be a merry and memorable meal ; and when it be over they all go out to the garden , lie in the glamor of sunset .
`` I do think you have the lovely place here , '' say Diana , look round her admiringly .
`` Why do you call it Echo Lodge ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Charlotta , '' say Miss Lavendar , `` go into the house and bring out the little tin horn that be hang over the clock shelf . ''
Charlotta the Fourth skip off and return with the horn .
`` Blow it , Charlotta , '' command Miss Lavendar .
Charlotta accordingly blow , a rather raucous , strident blast .
There be moment 's stillness ... and then from the wood over the river come a multitude of fairy echo , sweet , elusive , silvery , a if all the `` horn of elfland '' be blow against the sunset .
Anne and Diana exclaim in delight .
`` Now laugh , Charlotta ... laugh loudly . ''
Charlotta , who would probably have obey if Miss Lavendar have tell her to stand on her head , climb upon the stone bench and laugh loud and heartily .
Back come the echo , a if a host of pixy people be mimic her laughter in the purple woodland and along the fir-fringed point .
`` People always admire my echo very much , '' say Miss Lavendar , a if the echo be her personal property .
`` I love them myself .
They be very good company ... with a little pretending .
On calm evening Charlotta the Fourth and I often sit out here and amuse ourselves with them .
Charlotta , take back the horn and hang it carefully in it place . ''
`` Why do you call her Charlotta the Fourth ? ''
ask Diana , who be burst with curiosity on this point .
`` Just to keep her from get mix up with other Charlottas in my thought , '' say Miss Lavendar seriously .
`` They all look so much alike there 's no tell them apart .
Her name be n't really Charlotta at all .
It be ... let me see ... what be it ?
I THINK it 's Leonora ... yes , it IS Leonora .
You see , it be this way .
When mother die ten year ago I could n't stay here alone ... and I could n't afford to pay the wage of a grown-up girl .
So I get little Charlotta Bowman to come and stay with me for board and clothes .
Her name really be Charlotta ... she be Charlotta the First .
She be just thirteen .
She stay with me till she be sixteen and then she go away to Boston , because she could do good there .
Her sister come to stay with me then .
Her name be Julietta ... Mrs . Bowman have a weakness for fancy name I think ... but she look so like Charlotta that I keep call her that all the time ... and she do n't mind .
So I just give up try to remember her right name .
She be Charlotta the Second , and when she go away Evelina come and she be Charlotta the Third .
Now I have Charlotta the Fourth ; but when she be sixteen ... she 's fourteen now ... she will want to go to Boston too , and what I shall do then I really do not know .
Charlotta the Fourth be the last of the Bowman girl , and the best .
The other Charlottas always let me see that they think it silly of me to pretend thing but Charlotta the Fourth never do , no matter what she may really think .
I do n't care what people think about me if they do n't let me see it . ''
`` Well , '' say Diana look regretfully at the set sun .
`` I suppose we must go if we want to get to Mr. Kimball 's before dark .
We 've have a lovely time , Miss Lewis . ''
`` Wo n't you come again to see me ? ''
plead Miss Lavendar .
Tall Anne put her arm about the little lady .
`` Indeed we shall , '' she promise .
`` Now that we have discover you we 'll wear out our welcome come to see you .
Yes , we must go ... ` we must tear ourselves away , ' a Paul Irving say every time he come to Green Gables . ''
`` Paul Irving ? ''
There be a subtle change in Miss Lavendar 's voice .
`` Who be he ?
I do n't think there be anybody of that name in Avonlea . ''
Anne felt vexed at her own heedlessness .
She have forget about Miss Lavendar 's old romance when Paul 's name slip out .
`` He be a little pupil of mine , '' she explain slowly .
`` He come from Boston last year to live with his grandmother , Mrs. Irving of the shore road . ''
`` Is he Stephen Irving 's son ? ''
Miss Lavendar ask , bend over her namesake border so that her face be hide .
`` Yes . ''
`` I 'm go to give you girls a bunch of lavendar apiece , '' say Miss Lavendar brightly , a if she have not hear the answer to her question .
`` It 's very sweet , do n't you think ?
Mother always love it .
She plant these border long ago .
Father name me Lavendar because he be so fond of it .
The very first time he saw mother be when he visit her home in East Grafton with her brother .
He fell in love with her at first sight ; and they put him in the spare room bed to sleep and the sheet be scent with lavendar and he lay awake all night and thought of her .
He always love the scent of lavendar after that ... and that be why he give me the name .
Do n't forget to come back soon , girl dear .
We 'll be look for you , Charlotta the Fourth and I. '' She open the gate under the fir for them to pass through .
She look suddenly old and tire ; the glow and radiance have fade from her face ; her part smile be a sweet with ineradicable youth a ever , but when the girl look back from the first curve in the lane they saw her sit on the old stone bench under the silver poplar in the middle of the garden with her head lean wearily on her hand .
`` She do look lonely , '' say Diana softly .
`` We must come often to see her . ''
`` I think her parent give her the only right and fitting name that could possibly be give her , '' say Anne .
`` If they have be so blind a to name her Elizabeth or Nellie or Muriel she must have be call Lavendar just the same , I think .
It 's so suggestive of sweetness and old-fashioned grace and ` silk attire . '
Now , my name just smack of bread and butter , patchwork and chore . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think so , '' say Diana .
`` Anne seem to me real stately and like a queen .
But I 'd like Kerrenhappuch if it happen to be your name .
I think people make their name nice or ugly just by what they be themselves .
I ca n't bear Josie or Gertie for names now but before I know the Pye girl I think them real pretty . ''
`` That 's a lovely idea , Diana , '' say Anne enthusiastically .
`` Living so that you beautify your name , even if it be n't beautiful to begin with ... make it stand in people 's thought for something so lovely and pleasant that they never think of it by itself .
Thank you , Diana . ''
XXII Odds and Ends `` So you have tea at the stone house with Lavendar Lewis ? ''
say Marilla at the breakfast table next morning .
`` What be she like now ?
It 's over fifteen year since I saw her last ... it be one Sunday in Grafton church .
I suppose she have change a great deal .
Davy Keith , when you want something you ca n't reach , ask to have it pass and do n't spread yourself over the table in that fashion .
Did you ever see Paul Irving do that when he be here to meal ? ''
`` But Paul 's arm be longer 'n mine , '' brumbled Davy .
`` They 've have eleven year to grow and mine 've only have seven .
` Sides , I DID ask , but you and Anne be so busy talk you do n't pay any ` tention .
` Sides , Paul 's never be here to any meal escept tea , and it 's easy to be p ` lite at tea than at breakfast .
You ai n't half a hungry .
It 's an awful long while between supper and breakfast .
Now , Anne , that spoonful ai n't any big than it be last year and I 'M ever so much big . ''
`` Of course , I do n't know what Miss Lavendar use to look like but I do n't fancy somehow that she have change a great deal , '' say Anne , after she have help Davy to maple syrup , give him two spoonful to pacify him .
`` Her hair be snow-white but her face be fresh and almost girlish , and she have the sweet brown eye ... such a pretty shade of wood-brown with little golden glint in them ... and her voice make you think of white satin and tinkling water and fairy bell all mix up together . ''
`` She be reckon a great beauty when she be a girl , '' say Marilla .
`` I never know her very well but I like her as far a I do know her .
Some folk think her peculiar even then .
DAVY , if ever I catch you at such a trick again you 'll be make to wait for your meal till everyone else be do , like the French . ''
Most conversation between Anne and Marilla in the presence of the twin , be punctuate by these rebuke Davy-ward .
In this instance , Davy , sad to relate , not be able to scoop up the last drop of his syrup with his spoon , have solve the difficulty by lift his plate in both hand and apply his small pink tongue to it .
Anne look at him with such horrified eye that the little sinner turn red and say , half shamefacedly , half defiantly , `` There ai n't any waste that way . ''
`` People who be different from other people be always call peculiar , '' say Anne .
`` And Miss Lavendar be certainly different , though it 's hard to say just where the difference come in .
Perhaps it be because she be one of those people who never grow old . ''
`` One might as well grow old when all your generation do , '' say Marilla , rather reckless of her pronoun .
`` If you do n't , you do n't fit in anywhere .
Far a I can learn Lavendar Lewis have just drop out of everything .
She 's live in that out of the way place until everybody have forget her .
That stone house be one of the old on the Island .
Old Mr. Lewis build it eighty year ago when he come out from England .
Davy , stop joggle Dora 's elbow .
Oh , I saw you !
You need n't try to look innocent .
What do make you behave so this morning ? ''
`` Maybe I get out of the wrong side of the bed , '' suggest Davy .
`` Milty Boulter say if you do that thing be bind to go wrong with you all day .
His grandmother tell him .
But which be the right side ?
And what be you to do when your bed 's against the wall ?
I want to know . ''
`` I 've always wonder what go wrong between Stephen Irving and Lavendar Lewis , '' continue Marilla , ignore Davy .
`` They be certainly engage twenty-five year ago and then all at once it be break off .
I do n't know what the trouble be but it must have be something terrible , for he go away to the States and never come home since . ''
`` Perhaps it be nothing very dreadful after all .
I think the little thing in life often make more trouble than the big thing , '' say Anne , with one of those flash of insight which experience could not have better .
`` Marilla , please do n't say anything about my be at Miss Lavendar 's to Mrs. Lynde .
She 'd be sure to ask a hundred question and somehow I would n't like it ... nor Miss Lavendar either if she know , I feel sure . ''
`` I daresay Rachel would be curious , '' admit Marilla , `` though she have n't as much time a she use to have for look after other people 's affair .
She 's tied home now on account of Thomas ; and she 's feel pretty downhearted , for I think she 's begin to lose hope of his ever get well .
Rachel will be leave pretty lonely if anything happen to him , with all her child settle out west , except Eliza in town ; and she do n't like her husband . ''
Marilla 's pronoun slander Eliza , who be very fond of her husband .
`` Rachel say if he 'd only brace up and exert his will power he 'd get good .
But what be the use of ask a jellyfish to sit up straight ? ''
continued Marilla .
`` Thomas Lynde never have any will power to exert .
His mother rule him till he marry and then Rachel carry it on .
It 's a wonder he dare to get sick without ask her permission .
But there , I should n't talk so .
Rachel have be a good wife to him .
He 'd never have amount to anything without her , that 's certain .
He be bear to be rule ; and it 's well he fell into the hand of a clever , capable manager like Rachel .
He do n't mind her way .
It save him the bother of ever make up his own mind about anything .
Davy , do stop squirm like an eel . ''
`` I 've nothing else to do , '' protest Davy .
`` I ca n't eat any more , and it 's no fun watch you and Anne eat . ''
`` Well , you and Dora go out and give the hen their wheat , '' say Marilla .
`` And do n't you try to pull any more feather out of the white rooster 's tail either . ''
`` I want some feather for an Injun headdress , '' say Davy sulkily .
`` Milty Boulter have a dandy one , make out of the feather his mother give him when she kill their old white gobbler .
You might let me have some .
That rooster 's get ever so many more 'n he want . ''
`` You may have the old feather duster in the garret , '' say Anne , `` and I 'll dye them green and red and yellow for you . ''
`` You do spoil that boy dreadfully , '' say Marilla , when Davy , with a radiant face , have follow prim Dora out .
Marilla 's education have make great stride in the past six year ; but she have not yet be able to rid herself of the idea that it be very bad for a child to have too many of it wish indulge .
`` All the boy of his class have Indian headdress , and Davy want one too , '' say Anne . ''
I know how it feel ... I 'll never forget how I use to long for puffed sleeve when all the other girl have them .
And Davy be n't be spoil .
He be improve every day .
Think what a difference there be in him since he come here a year ago . ''
`` He certainly do n't get into as much mischief since he begin to go to school , '' acknowledge Marilla .
`` I suppose he work off the tendency with the other boy .
But it 's a wonder to me we have n't hear from Richard Keith before this .
Never a word since last May . ''
`` I 'll be afraid to hear from him , '' sigh Anne , begin to clear away the dish .
`` If a letter should come I 'd dread open it , for fear it would tell u to send the twin to him . ''
A month later a letter do come .
But it be not from Richard Keith .
A friend of his write to say that Richard Keith have die of consumption a fortnight previously .
The writer of the letter be the executor of his will and by that will the sum of two thousand dollar be leave to Miss Marilla Cuthbert in trust for David and Dora Keith until they come of age or marry .
In the meantime the interest be to be use for their maintenance .
`` It seem dreadful to be glad of anything in connection with a death , '' say Anne soberly .
`` I 'm sorry for poor Mr. Keith ; but I AM glad that we can keep the twin . ''
`` It 's a very good thing about the money , '' say Marilla practically .
`` I want to keep them but I really do n't see how I could afford to do it , especially when they grow old .
The rent of the farm do n't do any more than keep the house and I be bind that not a cent of your money should be spend on them .
You do far too much for them a it be .
Dora do n't need that new hat you buy her any more than a cat need two tail .
But now the way be make clear and they be provide for . ''
Davy and Dora be delight when they hear that they be to live at Green Gables , `` for good . ''
The death of an uncle whom they have never see could not weigh a moment in the balance against that .
But Dora have one misgiving .
`` Was Uncle Richard bury ? ''
she whisper to Anne .
`` Yes , dear , of course . ''
`` He ... he ... be n't like Mirabel Cotton 's uncle , be he ? ''
in a still more agitated whisper .
`` He wo n't walk about house after be bury , will he , Anne ? ''
XXIII Miss Lavendar 's Romance `` I think I 'll take a walk through to Echo Lodge this evening , '' say Anne , one Friday afternoon in December .
`` It look like snow , '' say Marilla dubiously .
`` I 'll be there before the snow come and I mean to stay all night .
Diana ca n't go because she have company , and I 'm sure Miss Lavendar will be look for me tonight .
It 's a whole fortnight since I be there . ''
Anne have pay many a visit to Echo Lodge since that October day .
Sometimes she and Diana drive around by the road ; sometimes they walk through the wood .
When Diana could not go Anne go alone .
Between her and Miss Lavendar have spring up one of those fervent , helpful friendship possible only between a woman who have keep the freshness of youth in her heart and soul , and a girl whose imagination and intuition supply the place of experience .
Anne have at last discover a real `` kindred spirit , '' while into the little lady 's lonely , sequester life of dream Anne and Diana come with the wholesome joy and exhilaration of the outer existence , which Miss Lavendar , `` the world forgetting , by the world forgot , '' have long cease to share ; they bring an atmosphere of youth and reality to the little stone house .
Charlotta the Fourth always greet them with her very wide smile ... and Charlotta 's smile WERE fearfully wide ... love them for the sake of her adored mistress as well a for their own .
Never have there be such `` high jinks '' hold in the little stone house a be hold there that beautiful , late-lingering autumn , when November seem October over again , and even December ape the sunshine and haze of summer .
But on this particular day it seem a if December have remember that it be time for winter and have turn suddenly dull and brooding , with a windless hush predictive of come snow .
Nevertheless , Anne keenly enjoy her walk through the great gray maze of the beechlands ; though alone she never find it lonely ; her imagination people her path with merry companion , and with these she carry on a gay , pretend conversation that be witty and more fascinating than conversation be apt to be in real life , where people sometimes fail most lamentably to talk up to the requirement .
In a `` make believe '' assembly of choice spirit everybody say just the thing you want her to say and so give you the chance to say just what YOU want to say .
Attended by this invisible company , Anne traverse the wood and arrive at the fir lane just a broad , feathery flake begin to flutter down softly .
At the first bend she come upon Miss Lavendar , stand under a big , broad-branching fir .
She wear a gown of warm , rich red , and her head and shoulder be wrap in a silvery gray silk shawl .
`` You look like the queen of the fir wood fairy , '' call Anne merrily .
`` I think you would come tonight , Anne , '' say Miss Lavendar , run forward .
`` And I 'm doubly glad , for Charlotta the Fourth be away .
Her mother be sick and she have to go home for the night .
I should have be very lonely if you have n't come ... even the dream and the echo would n't have be enough company .
Oh , Anne , how pretty you be , '' she add suddenly , look up at the tall , slim girl with the soft rose-flush of walk on her face .
`` How pretty and how young !
It 's so delightful to be seventeen , be n't it ?
I do envy you , '' conclude Miss Lavendar candidly .
`` But you be only seventeen at heart , '' smile Anne .
`` No , I 'm old ... or rather middle-aged , which be far bad , '' sigh Miss Lavendar .
`` Sometimes I can pretend I 'm not , but at other time I realize it .
And I ca n't reconcile myself to it a most woman seem to .
I 'm just as rebellious a I be when I discover my first gray hair .
Now , Anne , do n't look a if you be try to understand .
Seventeen CA N'T understand .
I 'm go to pretend right away that I be seventeen too , and I can do it , now that you 're here .
You always bring youth in your hand like a gift .
We 're go to have a jolly evening .
Tea first ... what do you want for tea ?
We 'll have whatever you like .
Do think of something nice and indigestible . ''
There be sound of riot and mirth in the little stone house that night .
What with cooking and feasting and make candy and laughing and `` pretending , '' it be quite true that Miss Lavendar and Anne comport themselves in a fashion entirely unsuited to the dignity of a spinster of forty-five and a sedate schoolma'am .
Then , when they be tire , they sit down on the rug before the grate in the parlor , light only by the soft fireshine and perfume deliciously by Miss Lavendar 's open rose-jar on the mantel .
The wind have rise and be sigh and wail around the eaves and the snow be thud softly against the window , a if a hundred storm sprite be tap for entrance .
`` I 'm so glad you 're here , Anne , '' say Miss Lavendar , nibble at her candy .
`` If you be n't I should be blue ... very blue ... almost navy blue .
Dreams and make-believe be all very well in the daytime and the sunshine , but when dark and storm come they fail to satisfy .
One want real thing then .
But you do n't know this ... seventeen never know it .
At seventeen dream DO satisfy because you think the reality be wait for you further on .
When I be seventeen , Anne , I do n't think forty-five would find me a white-haired little old maid with nothing but dream to fill my life . ''
`` But you be n't an old maid , '' say Anne , smile into Miss Lavendar 's wistful woodbrown eye .
`` Old maid be BORN ... they do n't BECOME . ''
`` Some be born old maid , some achieve old maidenhood , and some have old maidenhood thrust upon them , '' parody Miss Lavendar whimsically .
`` You be one of those who have achieve it then , '' laugh Anne , `` and you 've do it so beautifully that if every old maid be like you they would come into the fashion , I think . ''
`` I always like to do thing as well a possible , '' say Miss Lavendar meditatively , `` and since an old maid I have to be I be determine to be a very nice one .
People say I 'm odd ; but it 's just because I follow my own way of be an old maid and refuse to copy the traditional pattern .
Anne , do anyone ever tell you anything about Stephen Irving and me ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Anne candidly , `` I 've hear that you and he be engage once . ''
`` So we be ... twenty-five year ago ... a lifetime ago .
And we be to have be marry the next spring .
I have my wedding dress make , although nobody but mother and Stephen ever know THAT .
We 'd be engage in a way almost all our life , you might say .
When Stephen be a little boy his mother would bring him here when she come to see my mother ; and the second time he ever come ... he be nine and I be six ... he tell me out in the garden that he have pretty well make up his mind to marry me when he grow up .
I remember that I say ` Thank you ' ; and when he be go I tell mother very gravely that there be a great weight off my mind , because I be n't frighten any more about have to be an old maid .
How poor mother laugh ! ''
`` And what go wrong ? ''
ask Anne breathlessly .
`` We have just a stupid , silly , commonplace quarrel .
So commonplace that , if you 'll believe me , I do n't even remember just how it begin .
I hardly know who be the more to blame for it .
Stephen do really begin it , but I suppose I provoke him by some foolishness of mine .
He have a rival or two , you see .
I be vain and coquettish and like to tease him a little .
He be a very high-strung , sensitive fellow .
Well , we part in a temper on both side .
But I think it would all come right ; and it would have if Stephen have n't come back too soon .
Anne , my dear , I 'm sorry to say '' ... Miss Lavendar drop her voice a if she be about to confess a predilection for murder people , `` that I be a dreadfully sulky person .
Oh , you need n't smile , ... it 's only too true .
I DO sulk ; and Stephen come back before I have finish sulking .
I would n't listen to him and I would n't forgive him ; and so he go away for good .
He be too proud to come again .
And then I sulk because he do n't come .
I might have send for him perhaps , but I could n't humble myself to do that .
I be just as proud a he be ... pride and sulkiness make a very bad combination , Anne .
But I could never care for anybody else and I do n't want to .
I know I would rather be an old maid for a thousand year than marry anybody who be n't Stephen Irving .
Well , it all seem like a dream now , of course .
How sympathetic you look , Anne ... as sympathetic a only seventeen can look .
But do n't overdo it .
I 'm really a very happy , content little person in spite of my broken heart .
My heart do break , if ever a heart do , when I realize that Stephen Irving be not come back .
But , Anne , a broken heart in real life be n't half as dreadful a it be in book .
It 's a good deal like a bad tooth ... though you wo n't think THAT a very romantic simile .
It take spell of ache and give you a sleepless night now and then , but between time it let you enjoy life and dream and echo and peanut candy a if there be nothing the matter with it .
And now you 're look disappointed .
You do n't think I 'm half a interest a person a you do five minute ago when you believe I be always the prey of a tragic memory bravely hidden beneath external smile .
That 's the bad ... or the best ... of real life , Anne .
It WO N'T let you be miserable .
It keep on try to make you comfortable ... and succeed ... even when you 're determine to be unhappy and romantic .
Is n't this candy scrumptious ?
I 've eat far more than be good for me already but I 'm go to keep recklessly on . ''
After a little silence Miss Lavendar say abruptly , `` It give me a shock to hear about Stephen 's son that first day you be here , Anne .
I 've never be able to mention him to you since , but I 've want to know all about him .
What sort of a boy be he ? ''
`` He be the dear , sweet child I ever know , Miss Lavendar ... and he pretend thing too , just a you and I do . ''
`` I 'd like to see him , '' say Miss Lavendar softly , a if talk to herself .
`` I wonder if he look anything like the little dream-boy who live here with me ... MY little dream-boy . ''
`` If you would like to see Paul I 'll bring him through with me sometime , '' say Anne .
`` I would like it ... but not too soon .
I want to get use to the thought .
There might be more pain than pleasure in it ... if he look too much like Stephen ... or if he do n't look enough like him .
In a month 's time you may bring him . ''
Accordingly , a month later Anne and Paul walk through the wood to the stone house , and meet Miss Lavendar in the lane .
She have not be expect them just then and she turn very pale .
`` So this be Stephen 's boy , '' she say in a low tone , take Paul 's hand and look at him a he stand , beautiful and boyish , in his smart little fur coat and cap .
`` He ... he be very like his father . ''
`` Everybody say I 'm a chip off the old block , '' remark Paul , quite at his ease .
Anne , who have be watch the little scene , draw a relieved breath .
She saw that Miss Lavendar and Paul have `` take '' to each other , and that there would be no constraint or stiffness .
Miss Lavendar be a very sensible person , in spite of her dream and romance , and after that first little betrayal she tuck her feeling out of sight and entertained Paul a brightly and naturally a if he be anybody 's son who have come to see her .
They all have a jolly afternoon together and such a feast of fat thing by way of supper a would have make old Mrs. Irving hold up her hand in horror , believe that Paul 's digestion would be ruin for ever .
`` Come again , laddie , '' say Miss Lavendar , shake hand with him at parting .
`` You may kiss me if you like , '' say Paul gravely .
Miss Lavendar stoop and kiss him .
`` How do you know I want to ? ''
she whisper .
`` Because you look at me just a my little mother use to do when she want to kiss me .
As a rule , I do n't like to be kiss .
Boys do n't .
You know , Miss Lewis .
But I think I rather like to have you kiss me .
And of course I 'll come to see you again .
I think I 'd like to have you for a particular friend of mine , if you do n't object . ''
`` I ... I do n't think I shall object , '' say Miss Lavendar .
She turn and go in very quickly ; but a moment later she be wave a gay and smile good-bye to them from the window .
`` I like Miss Lavendar , '' announce Paul , a they walk through the beech wood .
`` I like the way she look at me , and I like her stone house , and I like Charlotta the Fourth .
I wish Grandma Irving have a Charlotta the Fourth instead of a Mary Joe .
I feel sure Charlotta the Fourth would n't think I be wrong in my upper story when I tell her what I think about thing .
Was n't that a splendid tea we have , teacher ?
Grandma say a boy should n't be think about what he get to eat , but he ca n't help it sometimes when he be real hungry .
YOU know , teacher .
I do n't think Miss Lavendar would make a boy eat porridge for breakfast if he do n't like it .
She 'd get thing for him he do like .
But of course '' ... Paul be nothing if not fair-minded ... `` that might n't be very good for him .
It 's very nice for a change though , teacher .
YOU know . ''
XXIV A Prophet in His Own Country One May day Avonlea folk be mildly excite over some `` Avonlea Notes , '' sign `` Observer , '' which appear in the Charlottetown ` Daily Enterprise . '
Gossip ascribe the authorship thereof to Charlie Sloane , partly because the say Charlie have indulge in similar literary flight in time past , and partly because one of the note seem to embody a sneer at Gilbert Blythe .
Avonlea juvenile society persist in regard Gilbert Blythe and Charlie Sloane a rival in the good grace of a certain damsel with gray eye and an imagination .
Gossip , a usual , be wrong .
Gilbert Blythe , aid and abet by Anne , have write the note , put in the one about himself a a blind .
Only two of the note have any bearing on this history : `` Rumor have it that there will be a wedding in our village ere the daisy be in bloom .
A new and highly respect citizen will lead to the hymeneal altar one of our most popular lady .
`` Uncle Abe , our well-known weather prophet , predict a violent storm of thunder and lightning for the evening of the twenty-third of May , begin at seven o'clock sharp .
The area of the storm will extend over the great part of the Province .
People travel that even will do well to take umbrella and mackintosh with them . ''
`` Uncle Abe really have predict a storm for sometime this spring , '' say Gilbert , `` but do you suppose Mr. Harrison really do go to see Isabella Andrews ? ''
`` No , '' say Anne , laughing , `` I 'm sure he only go to play checker with Mr. Harrison Andrews , but Mrs. Lynde say she know Isabella Andrews must be go to get married , she 's in such good spirit this spring . ''
Poor old Uncle Abe felt rather indignant over the note .
He suspect that `` Observer '' be make fun of him .
He angrily deny have assign any particular date for his storm but nobody believe him .
Life in Avonlea continue on the smooth and even tenor of it way .
The `` planting '' be put in ; the Improvers celebrate an Arbor Day .
Each Improver set out , or cause to be set out , five ornamental tree .
As the society now numbered forty member , this mean a total of two hundred young tree .
Early oat green over the red field ; apple orchard fling great blossoming arm about the farmhouse and the Snow Queen adorn itself a a bride for her husband .
Anne like to sleep with her window open and let the cherry fragrance blow over her face all night .
She think it very poetical .
Marilla think she be risk her life .
`` Thanksgiving should be celebrate in the spring , '' say Anne one evening to Marilla , a they sit on the front door step and listen to the silver-sweet chorus of the frog .
`` I think it would be ever so much good than have it in November when everything be dead or asleep .
Then you have to remember to be thankful ; but in May one simply ca n't help be thankful ... that they be alive , if for nothing else .
I feel exactly a Eve must have felt in the garden of Eden before the trouble begin .
IS that grass in the hollow green or golden ?
It seem to me , Marilla , that a pearl of a day like this , when the blossom be out and the wind do n't know where to blow from next for sheer crazy delight must be pretty near as good a heaven . ''
Marilla look scandalized and glance apprehensively around to make sure the twin be not within earshot .
They come around the corner of the house just then .
`` Ai n't it an awful nice-smelling evening ? ''
ask Davy , sniff delightedly a he swing a hoe in his grimy hand .
He have be work in his garden .
That spring Marilla , by way of turn Davy 's passion for revel in mud and clay into useful channel , have give him and Dora a small plot of ground for a garden .
Both have eagerly go to work in a characteristic fashion .
Dora plant , weed , and water carefully , systematically , and dispassionately .
As a result , her plot be already green with prim , orderly little row of vegetable and annual .
Davy , however , work with more zeal than discretion ; he dig and hoed and rake and water and transplant so energetically that his seed have no chance for their life .
`` How be your garden come on , Davy-boy ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Kind of slow , '' say Davy with a sigh .
`` I do n't know why the thing do n't grow good .
Milty Boulter say I must have plant them in the dark of the moon and that 's the whole trouble .
He say you must never sow seed or kill pork or cut your hair or do any ` portant thing in the wrong time of the moon .
Is that true , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` Maybe if you do n't pull your plant up by the root every other day to see how they 're get on ` at the other end , ' they 'd do good , '' say Marilla sarcastically .
`` I only pull six of them up , '' protest Davy .
`` I want to see if there be grub at the root .
Milty Boulter say if it be n't the moon 's fault it must be grub .
But I only find one grub .
He be a great big juicy curly grub .
I put him on a stone and get another stone and smash him flat .
He make a jolly SQUISH I tell you .
I be sorry there be n't more of them .
Dora 's garden be plant same time 's mine and her thing be grow all right .
It CA N'T be the moon , '' Davy conclude in a reflective tone .
`` Marilla , look at that apple tree , '' say Anne .
`` Why , the thing be human .
It be reach out long arm to pick it own pink skirt daintily up and provoke u to admiration . ''
`` Those Yellow Duchess tree always bear well , '' say Marilla complacently .
`` That tree 'll be load this year .
I 'm real glad ... they 're great for pie . ''
But neither Marilla nor Anne nor anybody else be fat to make pie out of Yellow Duchess apple that year .
The twenty-third of May come ... an unseasonably warm day , a none realize more keenly than Anne and her little beehive of pupil , swelter over fraction and syntax in the Avonlea schoolroom .
A hot breeze blow all the forenoon ; but after noon hour it die away into a heavy stillness .
At half past three Anne hear a low rumble of thunder .
She promptly dismiss school at once , so that the child might get home before the storm come .
As they go out to the playground Anne perceive a certain shadow and gloom over the world in spite of the fact that the sun be still shin brightly .
Annetta Bell catch her hand nervously .
`` Oh , teacher , look at that awful cloud ! ''
Anne look and give an exclamation of dismay .
In the northwest a mass of cloud , such a she have never in all her life beheld before , be rapidly roll up .
It be dead black , save where it curl and fringe edge show a ghastly , livid white .
There be something about it indescribably menace a it gloomed up in the clear blue sky ; now and again a bolt of lightning shot across it , follow by a savage growl .
It hang so low that it almost seem to be touch the top of the wooded hill .
Mr. Harmon Andrews come clatter up the hill in his truck wagon , urge his team of gray to their utmost speed .
He pull them to a halt opposite the school .
`` Guess Uncle Abe 's hit it for once in his life , Anne , '' he shout .
`` His storm 's come a leetle ahead of time .
Did ye ever see the like of that cloud ?
Here , all you young one , that be go my way , pile in , and those that ai n't scoot for the post office if ye 've more 'n a quarter of a mile to go , and stay there till the shower 's over . ''
Anne catch Davy and Dora by the hand and fly down the hill , along the Birch Path , and past Violet Vale and Willowmere , as fast a the twin ' fat leg could go .
They reach Green Gables not a moment too soon and be join at the door by Marilla , who have be hustle her duck and chicken under shelter .
As they dash into the kitchen the light seem to vanish , a if blow out by some mighty breath ; the awful cloud roll over the sun and a darkness a of late twilight fell across the world .
At the same moment , with a crash of thunder and a blinding glare of lightning , the hail swoop down and blot the landscape out in one white fury .
Through all the clamor of the storm come the thud of torn branch strike the house and the sharp crack of break glass .
In three minute every pane in the west and north window be break and the hail pour in through the aperture cover the floor with stone , the small of which be as big a a hen 's egg .
For three quarter of an hour the storm rag unabated and no one who undergo it ever forget it .
Marilla , for once in her life shake out of her composure by sheer terror , knelt by her rock chair in a corner of the kitchen , gasp and sob between the deafen thunder peal .
Anne , white a paper , have drag the sofa away from the window and sit on it with a twin on either side .
Davy at the first crash have howl , `` Anne , Anne , be it the Judgment Day ?
Anne , Anne , I never mean to be naughty , '' and then have bury his face in Anne 's lap and keep it there , his little body quiver .
Dora , somewhat pale but quite compose , sit with her hand clasp in Anne 's , quiet and motionless .
It be doubtful if an earthquake would have disturb Dora .
Then , almost as suddenly a it begin , the storm cease .
The hail stop , the thunder roll and mutter away to the eastward , and the sun burst out merry and radiant over a world so change that it seem an absurd thing to think that a scant three quarter of an hour could have effect such a transformation .
Marilla rise from her knee , weak and trembling , and drop on her rocker .
Her face be haggard and she look ten year older .
`` Have we all come out of that alive ? ''
she ask solemnly .
`` You bet we have , '' pip Davy cheerfully , quite his own man again .
`` I be n't a bit scared either ... only just at the first .
It come on a fellow so sudden .
I make up my mind quick a a wink that I would n't fight Teddy Sloane Monday a I 'd promise ; but now maybe I will .
Say , Dora , be you scar ? ''
`` Yes , I be a little scared , '' say Dora primly , `` but I hold tight to Anne 's hand and say my prayer over and over again . ''
`` Well , I 'd have say my prayer too if I 'd have think of it , '' say Davy ; `` but , '' he add triumphantly , `` you see I come through just as safe a you for all I do n't say them . ''
Anne get Marilla a glassful of her potent currant wine ... HOW potent it be Anne , in her early day , have have all too good reason to know ... and then they go to the door to look out on the strange scene .
Far and wide be a white carpet , knee deep , of hailstone ; drift of them be heap up under the eaves and on the step .
When , three or four day later , those hailstone melt , the havoc they have work be plainly see , for every green grow thing in the field or garden be cut off .
Not only be every blossom strip from the apple tree but great bough and branch be wrench away .
And out of the two hundred tree set out by the Improvers by far the great number be snap off or tear to shred .
`` Can it possibly be the same world it be an hour ago ? ''
ask Anne , dazedly .
`` It MUST have take long than that to play such havoc . ''
`` The like of this have never be know in Prince Edward Island , '' say Marilla , `` never .
I remember when I be a girl there be a bad storm , but it be nothing to this .
We 'll hear of terrible destruction , you may be sure . ''
`` I do hope none of the child be catch out in it , '' murmur Anne anxiously .
As it be discover later , none of the child have be , since all those who have any distance to go had take Mr. Andrews ' excellent advice and seek refuge at the post office .
`` There come John Henry Carter , '' say Marilla .
John Henry come wad through the hailstone with a rather scared grin .
`` Oh , ai n't this awful , Miss Cuthbert ?
Mr. Harrison send me over to see if yous have come out all right . ''
`` We 're none of u kill , '' say Marilla grimly , `` and none of the building be strike .
I hope you get off equally well . ''
`` Yas 'm .
Not quite so well , ma'am .
We be strike .
The lightning knock over the kitchen chimbly and come down the flue and knock over Ginger 's cage and tear a hole in the floor and go into the sullar .
Yas 'm . ''
`` Was Ginger hurt ? ''
query Anne .
`` Yas 'm .
He be hurt pretty bad .
He be kill . ''
Later on Anne go over to comfort Mr. Harrison .
She find him sit by the table , stroke Ginger 's gay dead body with a trembling hand .
`` Poor Ginger wo n't call you any more name , Anne , '' he say mournfully .
Anne could never have imagine herself cry on Ginger 's account , but the tear come into her eye .
`` He be all the company I have , Anne ... and now he 's dead .
Well , well , I 'm an old fool to care so much .
I 'll let on I do n't care .
I know you 're go to say something sympathetic as soon a I stop talk ... but do n't .
If you do I 'd cry like a baby .
Has n't this be a terrible storm ?
I guess folk wo n't laugh at Uncle Abe 's prediction again .
Seems a if all the storm that he 's be prophesy all his life that never happen come all at once .
Beats all how he strike the very day though , do n't it ?
Look at the mess we have here .
I must hustle round and get some board to patch up that hole in the floor . ''
Avonlea folk do nothing the next day but visit each other and compare damage .
The road be impassable for wheel by reason of the hailstone , so they walk or ride on horseback .
The mail come late with ill tidings from all over the province .
Houses have be strike , people kill and injure ; the whole telephone and telegraph system have be disorganize , and any number of young stock expose in the field have perish .
Uncle Abe wad out to the blacksmith 's forge early in the morning and spend the whole day there .
It be Uncle Abe 's hour of triumph and he enjoy it to the full .
It would be do Uncle Abe an injustice to say that he be glad the storm have happen ; but since it have to be he be very glad he have predict it ... to the very day , too .
Uncle Abe forget that he have ever deny set the day .
As for the trifling discrepancy in the hour , that be nothing .
Gilbert arrive at Green Gables in the evening and find Marilla and Anne busily engage in nail strip of oilcloth over the broken window .
`` Goodness only know when we 'll get glass for them , '' say Marilla .
`` Mr. Barry go over to Carmody this afternoon but not a pane could he get for love or money .
Lawson and Blair be clean out by the Carmody people by ten o'clock .
Was the storm bad at White Sands , Gilbert ? ''
`` I should say so .
I be catch in the school with all the child and I think some of them would go mad with fright .
Three of them faint , and two girl take hysteric , and Tommy Blewett do nothing but shriek at the top of his voice the whole time . ''
`` I only squeal once , '' say Davy proudly .
`` My garden be all smashed flat , '' he continue mournfully , `` but so be Dora 's , '' he add in a tone which indicate that there be yet balm in Gilead .
Anne come run down from the west gable .
`` Oh , Gilbert , have you hear the news ?
Mr. Levi Boulter 's old house be strike and burn to the ground .
It seem to me that I 'm dreadfully wicked to feel glad over THAT , when so much damage have be do .
Mr. Boulter say he believe the A.V.I.S . magicked up that storm on purpose . ''
`` Well , one thing be certain , '' say Gilbert , laughing , '' ` Observer ' have make Uncle Abe 's reputation a a weather prophet .
` Uncle Abe 's storm ' will go down in local history .
It be a most extraordinary coincidence that it should have come on the very day we select .
I actually have a half guilty feeling , a if I really have ` magicked ' it up .
We may as well rejoice over the old house be remove , for there 's not much to rejoice over where our young tree be concern .
Not ten of them have escape . ''
`` Ah , well , we 'll just have to plant them over again next spring , '' say Anne philosophically .
`` That be one good thing about this world ... there be always sure to be more spring . ''
XXV An Avonlea Scandal One blithe June morning , a fortnight after Uncle Abe 's storm , Anne come slowly through the Green Gables yard from the garden , carry in her hand two blight stalk of white narcissus .
`` Look , Marilla , '' she say sorrowfully , hold up the flower before the eye of a grim lady , with her hair coifed in a green gingham apron , who be go into the house with a plucked chicken , `` these be the only bud the storm spar ... and even they be imperfect .
I 'm so sorry ... I want some for Matthew 's grave .
He be always so fond of June lily . ''
`` I kind of miss them myself , '' admit Marilla , `` though it do n't seem right to lament over them when so many bad thing have happen ... all the crop destroy as well a the fruit . ''
`` But people have sow their oat over again , '' say Anne comfortingly , `` and Mr. Harrison say he think if we have a good summer they will come out all right though late .
And my annual be all come up again ... but oh , nothing can replace the June lily .
Poor little Hester Gray will have none either .
I go all the way back to her garden last night but there be n't one .
I 'm sure she 'll miss them . ''
`` I do n't think it 's right for you to say such thing , Anne , I really do n't , '' say Marilla severely .
`` Hester Gray have be dead for thirty year and her spirit be in heaven ... I hope . ''
`` Yes , but I believe she love and remember her garden here still , '' say Anne .
`` I 'm sure no matter how long I 'd live in heaven I 'd like to look down and see somebody put flower on my grave .
If I have have a garden here like Hester Gray 's it would take me more than thirty year , even in heaven , to forget be homesick for it by spell . ''
`` Well , do n't let the twin hear you talk like that , '' be Marilla 's feeble protest , a she carry her chicken into the house .
Anne pin her narcissus on her hair and go to the lane gate , where she stand for awhile sun herself in the June brightness before go in to attend to her Saturday morning duty .
The world be grow lovely again ; old Mother Nature be do her best to remove the trace of the storm , and , though she be not to succeed fully for many a moon , she be really accomplish wonder .
`` I wish I could just be idle all day today , '' Anne tell a bluebird , who be sing and swing on a willow bough , `` but a schoolma'am , who be also help to bring up twin , ca n't indulge in laziness , birdie .
How sweet you be sing , little bird .
You be just put the feeling of my heart into song ever so much good than I could myself .
Why , who be come ? ''
An express wagon be jolt up the lane , with two people on the front seat and a big trunk behind .
When it draw near Anne recognize the driver a the son of the station agent at Bright River ; but his companion be a stranger ... a scrap of a woman who spring nimbly down at the gate almost before the horse come to a standstill .
She be a very pretty little person , evidently near fifty than forty , but with rosy cheek , sparkle black eye , and shin black hair , surmount by a wonderful beflowered and beplumed bonnet .
In spite of have drive eight mile over a dusty road she be as neat a if she have just step out of the proverbial bandbox .
`` Is this where Mr. James A. Harrison live ? ''
she inquire briskly .
`` No , Mr. Harrison live over there , '' say Anne , quite lose in astonishment .
`` Well , I DID think this place seem too tidy ... MUCH too tidy for James A. to be live here , unless he have greatly change since I know him , '' chirp the little lady .
`` Is it true that James A. be go to be marry to some woman live in this settlement ? ''
`` No , oh no , '' cry Anne , flush so guiltily that the stranger look curiously at her , a if she half suspect her of matrimonial design on Mr. Harrison .
`` But I saw it in an Island paper , '' persist the Fair Unknown .
`` A friend send a marked copy to me ... friend be always so ready to do such thing .
James A . 's name be write in over ` new citizen . ' ''
`` Oh , that note be only meant a a joke , '' gasp Anne .
`` Mr. Harrison have no intention of marry ANYBODY .
I assure you he have n't . ''
`` I 'm very glad to hear it , '' say the rosy lady , climb nimbly back to her seat in the wagon , `` because he happen to be marry already .
I be his wife .
Oh , you may well look surprised .
I suppose he have be masquerade a a bachelor and break heart right and leave .
Well , well , James A. , '' nod vigorously over the field at the long white house , `` your fun be over .
I be here ... though I would n't have bother come if I have n't think you be up to some mischief .
I suppose , '' turn to Anne , `` that parrot of his be as profane a ever ? ''
`` His parrot ... be dead ... I THINK , '' gasp poor Anne , who could n't have felt sure of her own name at that precise moment .
`` Dead !
Everything will be all right then , '' cry the rosy lady jubilantly .
`` I can manage James A. if that bird be out of the way . ''
With which cryptic utterance she go joyfully on her way and Anne fly to the kitchen door to meet Marilla .
`` Anne , who be that woman ? ''
`` Marilla , '' say Anne solemnly , but with dancing eye , `` do I look a if I be crazy ? ''
`` Not more so than usual , '' say Marilla , with no thought of be sarcastic .
`` Well then , do you think I be awake ? ''
`` Anne , what nonsense have get into you ?
Who be that woman , I say ? ''
`` Marilla , if I 'm not crazy and not asleep she ca n't be such stuff a dream be make of ... she must be real .
Anyway , I 'm sure I could n't have imagine such a bonnet .
She say she be Mr. Harrison 's wife , Marilla . ''
Marilla star in her turn .
`` His wife !
Anne Shirley !
Then what have he be pass himself off a an unmarried man for ? ''
`` I do n't suppose he do , really , '' say Anne , try to be just .
`` He never say he be n't marry .
People simply take it for grant .
Oh Marilla , what will Mrs. Lynde say to this ? ''
They find out what Mrs. Lynde have to say when she come up that evening .
Mrs. Lynde be n't surprised !
Mrs. Lynde have always expect something of the sort !
Mrs. Lynde have always know there be SOMETHING about Mr. Harrison !
`` To think of his desert his wife ! ''
she say indignantly .
`` It 's like something you 'd read of in the States , but who would expect such a thing to happen right here in Avonlea ? ''
`` But we do n't know that he desert her , '' protest Anne , determine to believe her friend innocent till he be prove guilty .
`` We do n't know the right of it at all . ''
`` Well , we soon will .
I 'm go straight over there , '' say Mrs. Lynde , who have never learn that there be such a word a delicacy in the dictionary .
`` I 'm not suppose to know anything about her arrival , and Mr. Harrison be to bring some medicine for Thomas from Carmody today , so that will be a good excuse .
I 'll find out the whole story and come in and tell you on the way back . ''
Mrs. Lynde rush in where Anne have fear to tread .
Nothing would have induce the latter to go over to the Harrison place ; but she have her natural and proper share of curiosity and she felt secretly glad that Mrs. Lynde be go to solve the mystery .
She and Marilla wait expectantly for that good lady 's return , but wait in vain .
Mrs. Lynde do not revisit Green Gables that night .
Davy , arrive home at nine o'clock from the Boulter place , explain why .
`` I meet Mrs. Lynde and some strange woman in the Hollow , '' he say , `` and gracious , how they be talk both at once !
Mrs. Lynde say to tell you she be sorry it be too late to call tonight .
Anne , I 'm awful hungry .
We have tea at Milty 's at four and I think Mrs. Boulter be real mean .
She do n't give u any preserve or cake ... and even the bread be skurce . ''
`` Davy , when you go visit you must never criticize anything you be give to eat , '' say Anne solemnly .
`` It be very bad manner . ''
`` All right ... I 'll only think it , '' say Davy cheerfully .
`` Do give a fellow some supper , Anne . ''
Anne look at Marilla , who follow her into the pantry and shut the door cautiously .
`` You can give him some jam on his bread , I know what tea at Levi Boulter 's be apt to be . ''
Davy take his slice of bread and jam with a sigh .
`` It 's a kind of disappointing world after all , '' he remark .
`` Milty have a cat that take fit ... she 's take a fit regular every day for three week .
Milty say it 's awful fun to watch her .
I go down today on purpose to see her have one but the mean old thing would n't take a fit and just keep healthy a healthy , though Milty and me hung round all the afternoon and wait .
But never mind '' ... Davy brighten up a the insidious comfort of the plum jam stole into his soul ... `` maybe I 'll see her in one sometime yet .
It do n't seem likely she 'd stop have them all at once when she 's be so in the habit of it , do it ?
This jam be awful nice . ''
Davy have no sorrow that plum jam could not cure .
Sunday prove so rainy that there be no stir abroad ; but by Monday everybody have hear some version of the Harrison story .
The school buzz with it and Davy come home , full of information .
`` Marilla , Mr. Harrison have a new wife ... well , not ezackly new , but they 've stop be marry for quite a spell , Milty say .
I always s ` posed people have to keep on be marry once they 'd begin , but Milty say no , there 's way of stop if you ca n't agree .
Milty say one way be just to start off and leave your wife , and that 's what Mr. Harrison do .
Milty say Mr. Harrison leave his wife because she throw thing at him ... HARD thing ... and Arty Sloane say it be because she would n't let him smoke , and Ned Clay say it be 'cause she never let up scold him .
I would n't leave MY wife for anything like that .
I 'd just put my foot down and say , ` Mrs. Davy , you 've just get to do what 'll please ME 'cause I 'm a MAN . '
THAT 'D settle her pretty quick I guess .
But Annetta Clay say SHE leave HIM because he would n't scrape his boot at the door and she do n't blame her .
I 'm go right over to Mr. Harrison 's this minute to see what she 's like . ''
Davy soon return , somewhat cast down .
`` Mrs. Harrison be away ... she 's go to Carmody with Mrs. Rachel Lynde to get new paper for the parlor .
And Mr. Harrison say to tell Anne to go over and see him 'cause he want to have a talk with her .
And say , the floor be scrub , and Mr. Harrison be shave , though there be n't any preaching yesterday . ''
The Harrison kitchen wear a very unfamiliar look to Anne .
The floor be indeed scrub to a wonderful pitch of purity and so be every article of furniture in the room ; the stove be polish until she could see her face in it ; the wall be whitewash and the window pane sparkle in the sunlight .
By the table sit Mr. Harrison in his working clothes , which on Friday have be note for sundry rent and tatter but which be now neatly patch and brush .
He be sprucely shave and what little hair he have be carefully trim .
`` Sit down , Anne , sit down , '' say Mr. Harrison in a tone but two degree remove from that which Avonlea people use at funeral .
`` Emily 's go over to Carmody with Rachel Lynde ... she 's strike up a lifelong friendship already with Rachel Lynde .
Beats all how contrary woman be .
Well , Anne , my easy time be over ... all over .
It 's neatness and tidiness for me for the rest of my natural life , I suppose . ''
Mr. Harrison do his best to speak dolefully , but an irrepressible twinkle in his eye betray him .
`` Mr. Harrison , you be glad your wife be come back , '' cry Anne , shake her finger at him .
`` You need n't pretend you 're not , because I can see it plainly . ''
Mr. Harrison relax into a sheepish smile .
`` Well ... well ... I 'm get use to it , '' he concede .
`` I ca n't say I be sorry to see Emily .
A man really need some protection in a community like this , where he ca n't play a game of checker with a neighbor without be accuse of want to marry that neighbor 's sister and have it put in the paper . ''
`` Nobody would have suppose you go to see Isabella Andrews if you have n't pretend to be unmarried , '' say Anne severely .
`` I do n't pretend I be .
If anybody 'd have ask me if I be marry I 'd have say I be .
But they just take it for grant .
I be n't anxious to talk about the matter ... I be feel too sore over it .
It would have be nut for Mrs. Rachel Lynde if she have know my wife have leave me , would n't it now ? ''
`` But some people say that you leave her . ''
`` She start it , Anne , she start it .
I 'm go to tell you the whole story , for I do n't want you to think bad of me than I deserve ... nor of Emily neither .
But let 's go out on the veranda .
Everything be so fearful neat in here that it kind of make me homesick .
I suppose I 'll get use to it after awhile but it ease me up to look at the yard .
Emily have n't have time to tidy it up yet . ''
As soon a they be comfortably seat on the veranda Mr. Harrison begin his tale of woe .
`` I live in Scottsford , New Brunswick , before I come here , Anne .
My sister keep house for me and she suit me fine ; she be just reasonably tidy and she let me alone and spoil me ... so Emily say .
But three year ago she die .
Before she die she worry a lot about what be to become of me and finally she get me to promise I 'd get marry .
She advise me to take Emily Scott because Emily have money of her own and be a pattern housekeeper .
I say , say I , 'Em ily Scott would n't look at me . '
` You ask her and see , ' say my sister ; and just to ease her mind I promise her I would ... and I do .
And Emily say she 'd have me .
Never be so surprised in my life , Anne ... a smart pretty little woman like her and an old fellow like me .
I tell you I think at first I be in luck .
Well , we be marry and take a little wedding trip to St. John for a fortnight and then we go home .
We get home at ten o'clock at night , and I give you my word , Anne , that in half an hour that woman be at work housecleaning .
Oh , I know you 're think my house need it ... you 've get a very expressive face , Anne ; your thought just come out on it like print ... but it do n't , not that bad .
It have get pretty mixed up while I be keep bachelor 's hall , I admit , but I 'd get a woman to come in and clean it up before I be marry and there 'd be considerable painting and fix do .
I tell you if you take Emily into a brand new white marble palace she 'd be into the scrubbing as soon a she could get an old dress on .
Well , she clean house till one o'clock that night and at four she be up and at it again .
And she keep on that way ... far 's I could see she never stop .
It be scour and sweep and dust everlasting , except on Sundays , and then she be just long for Monday to begin again .
But it be her way of amuse herself and I could have reconcile myself to it if she 'd leave me alone .
But that she would n't do .
She 'd set out to make me over but she have n't catch me young enough .
I be n't allow to come into the house unless I change my boot for slipper at the door .
I dars n't smoke a pipe for my life unless I go to the barn .
And I do n't use good enough grammar .
Emily 'd be a schoolteacher in her early life and she 'd never get over it .
Then she hat to see me eat with my knife .
Well , there it be , pick and nag everlasting .
But I s ` pose , Anne , to be fair , I be cantankerous too .
I do n't try to improve a I might have do ... I just get cranky and disagreeable when she find fault .
I tell her one day she have n't complain of my grammar when I propose to her .
It be n't an overly tactful thing to say .
A woman would forgive a man for beat her sooner than for hint she be too much please to get him .
Well , we bicker along like that and it be n't exactly pleasant , but we might have get use to each other after a spell if it have n't be for Ginger .
Ginger be the rock we split on at last .
Emily do n't like parrot and she could n't stand Ginger 's profane habit of speech .
I be attach to the bird for my brother the sailor 's sake .
My brother the sailor be a pet of mine when we be little tad and he 'd send Ginger to me when he be die .
I do n't see any sense in get work up over his swearing .
There 's nothing I hate bad 'n profanity in a human be , but in a parrot , that 's just repeat what it 's hear with no more understanding of it than I 'd have of Chinese , allowance might be make .
But Emily could n't see it that way .
Women ai n't logical .
She try to break Ginger of swear but she have n't any good success than she have in try to make me stop say ' I see ' and ` them thing . '
Seemed a if the more she try the bad Ginger get , same a me .
`` Well , thing go on like this , both of u get raspier , till the CLIMAX come .
Emily invite our minister and his wife to tea , and another minister and HIS wife that be visit them .
I 'd promise to put Ginger away in some safe place where nobody would hear him ... Emily would n't touch his cage with a ten-foot pole ... and I mean to do it , for I do n't want the minister to hear anything unpleasant in my house .
But it slip my mind ... Emily be worry me so much about clean collar and grammar that it be n't any wonder ... and I never think of that poor parrot till we sit down to tea .
Just a minister number one be in the very middle of say grace , Ginger , who be on the veranda outside the dining room window , lift up HIS voice .
The gobbler have come into view in the yard and the sight of a gobbler always have an unwholesome effect on Ginger .
He surpass himself that time .
You can smile , Anne , and I do n't deny I 've chuckle some over it since myself , but at the time I felt almost a much mortify a Emily .
I go out and carry Ginger to the barn .
I ca n't say I enjoy the meal .
I know by the look of Emily that there be trouble brewing for Ginger and James A .
When the folk go away I start for the cow pasture and on the way I do some thinking .
I felt sorry for Emily and kind of fancied I have n't be so thoughtful of her a I might ; and besides , I wonder if the minister would think that Ginger have learn his vocabulary from me .
The long and short of it be , I decide that Ginger would have to be mercifully dispose of and when I 'd druv the cow home I go in to tell Emily so .
But there be no Emily and there be a letter on the table ... just accord to the rule in story book .
Emily writ that I 'd have to choose between her and Ginger ; she 'd go back to her own house and there she would stay till I go and tell her I 'd get rid of that parrot .
`` I be all rile up , Anne , and I say she might stay till doomsday if she wait for that ; and I stick to it .
I pack up her belonging and send them after her .
It make an awful lot of talk ... Scottsford be pretty near as bad a Avonlea for gossip ... and everybody sympathize with Emily .
It keep me all cross and cantankerous and I saw I 'd have to get out or I 'd never have any peace .
I conclude I 'd come to the Island .
I 'd be here when I be a boy and I like it ; but Emily have always say she would n't live in a place where folk be scar to walk out after dark for fear they 'd fall off the edge .
So , just to be contrary , I move over here .
And that 's all there be to it .
I have n't ever hear a word from or about Emily till I come home from the back field Saturday and find her scrub the floor but with the first decent dinner I 'd have since she leave me all ready on the table .
She tell me to eat it first and then we 'd talk ... by which I conclude that Emily have learn some lesson about get along with a man .
So she 's here and she 's go to stay ... see that Ginger 's dead and the Island 's some big than she think .
There 's Mrs. Lynde and her now .
No , do n't go , Anne .
Stay and get acquaint with Emily .
She take quite a notion to you Saturday ... want to know who that handsome redhaired girl be at the next house . ''
Mrs. Harrison welcome Anne radiantly and insist on her stay to tea .
`` James A. have be tell me all about you and how kind you 've be , make cake and thing for him , '' she say .
`` I want to get acquaint with all my new neighbor just as soon a possible .
Mrs. Lynde be a lovely woman , be n't she ?
So friendly . ''
When Anne go home in the sweet June dusk , Mrs. Harrison go with her across the field where the firefly be light their starry lamp .
`` I suppose , '' say Mrs. Harrison confidentially , `` that James A. have tell you our story ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then I need n't tell it , for James A. be a just man and he would tell the truth .
The blame be far from be all on his side .
I can see that now .
I be n't back in my own house an hour before I wish I have n't be so hasty but I would n't give in .
I see now that I expect too much of a man .
And I be real foolish to mind his bad grammar .
It do n't matter if a man do use bad grammar so long a he be a good provider and do n't go poke round the pantry to see how much sugar you 've use in a week .
I feel that James A. and I be go to be real happy now .
I wish I know who ` Observer ' be , so that I could thank him .
I owe him a real debt of gratitude . ''
Anne keep her own counsel and Mrs. Harrison never know that her gratitude find it way to it object .
Anne felt rather bewilder over the far-reaching consequence of those foolish `` note . ''
They have reconcile a man to his wife and make the reputation of a prophet .
Mrs. Lynde be in the Green Gables kitchen .
She have be tell the whole story to Marilla .
`` Well , and how do you like Mrs. Harrison ? ''
she ask Anne .
`` Very much .
I think she 's a real nice little woman . ''
`` That 's exactly what she be , '' say Mrs. Rachel with emphasis , `` and a I 've just be sayin ' to Marilla , I think we ought all to overlook Mr. Harrison 's peculiarity for her sake and try to make her feel at home here , that 's what .
Well , I must get back .
Thomas 'll be weary for me .
I get out a little since Eliza come and he 's seem a lot good these past few day , but I never like to be long away from him .
I hear Gilbert Blythe have resign from White Sands .
He 'll be off to college in the fall , I suppose . ''
Mrs. Rachel look sharply at Anne , but Anne be bend over a sleepy Davy nodding on the sofa and nothing be to be read in her face .
She carry Davy away , her oval girlish cheek press against his curly yellow head .
As they go up the stair Davy fling a tired arm about Anne 's neck and give her a warm hug and a sticky kiss .
`` You 're awful nice , Anne .
Milty Boulter write on his slate today and show it to Jennie Sloane , '' ` Roses red and vi ` let blue , Sugar 's sweet , and so be you '' and that ` spresses my feeling for you ezackly , Anne . ''
XXVI Around the Bend Thomas Lynde fade out of life a quietly and unobtrusively a he have live it .
His wife be a tender , patient , unwearied nurse .
Sometimes Rachel have be a little hard on her Thomas in health , when his slowness or meekness have provoke her ; but when he become ill no voice could be low , no hand more gently skillful , no vigil more uncomplaining .
`` You 've be a good wife to me , Rachel , '' he once say simply , when she be sit by him in the dusk , hold his thin , blanch old hand in her work-hardened one .
`` A good wife .
I 'm sorry I ai n't leave you good off ; but the child will look after you .
They 're all smart , capable child , just like their mother .
A good mother ... a good woman ... . ''
He have fall asleep then , and the next morning , just a the white dawn be creep up over the pointed fir in the hollow , Marilla go softly into the east gable and waken Anne .
`` Anne , Thomas Lynde be go ... their hired boy just bring the word .
I 'm go right down to Rachel . ''
On the day after Thomas Lynde 's funeral Marilla go about Green Gables with a strangely preoccupied air .
Occasionally she look at Anne , seem on the point of say something , then shake her head and button up her mouth .
After tea she go down to see Mrs. Rachel ; and when she return she go to the east gable , where Anne be correct school exercise .
`` How be Mrs. Lynde tonight ? ''
ask the latter .
`` She 's feel calm and more composed , '' answer Marilla , sit down on Anne 's bed ... a proceeding which betoken some unusual mental excitement , for in Marilla 's code of household ethic to sit on a bed after it be make up be an unpardonable offense .
`` But she 's very lonely .
Eliza have to go home today ... her son be n't well and she felt she could n't stay any long . ''
`` When I 've finish these exercise I 'll run down and chat awhile with Mrs. Lynde , '' say Anne .
`` I have intend to study some Latin composition tonight but it can wait . ''
`` I suppose Gilbert Blythe be go to college in the fall , '' say Marilla jerkily .
`` How would you like to go too , Anne ? ''
Anne look up in astonishment .
`` I would like it , of course , Marilla .
But it be n't possible . ''
`` I guess it can be make possible .
I 've always felt that you should go .
I 've never felt easy to think you be give it all up on my account . ''
`` But Marilla , I 've never be sorry for a moment that I stay home .
I 've be so happy ... Oh , these past two year have just be delightful . ''
`` Oh , yes , I know you 've be content enough .
But that be n't the question exactly .
You ought to go on with your education .
You 've save enough to put you through one year at Redmond and the money the stock bring in will do for another year ... and there 's scholarship and thing you might win . ''
`` Yes , but I ca n't go , Marilla .
Your eye be well , of course ; but I ca n't leave you alone with the twin .
They need so much look after . ''
`` I wo n't be alone with them .
That 's what I mean to discuss with you .
I have a long talk with Rachel tonight .
Anne , she 's feel dreadful bad over a good many thing .
She 's not left very well off .
It seem they mortgage the farm eight year ago to give the young boy a start when he go west ; and they 've never be able to pay much more than the interest since .
And then of course Thomas ' illness have cost a good deal , one way or another .
The farm will have to be sell and Rachel think there 'll be hardly anything leave after the bill be settle .
She say she 'll have to go and live with Eliza and it 's break her heart to think of leave Avonlea .
A woman of her age do n't make new friend and interest easy .
And , Anne , a she talk about it the thought come to me that I would ask her to come and live with me , but I think I ought to talk it over with you first before I say anything to her .
If I have Rachel live with me you could go to college .
How do you feel about it ? ''
`` I feel ... a if ... somebody ... have hand me ... the moon ... and I do n't know ... exactly ... what to do ... with it , '' say Anne dazedly .
`` But a for ask Mrs. Lynde to come here , that be for you to decide , Marilla .
Do you think ... be you sure ... you would like it ?
Mrs. Lynde be a good woman and a kind neighbor , but ... but ... '' `` But she 's get her fault , you mean to say ?
Well , she have , of course ; but I think I 'd rather put up with far bad fault than see Rachel go away from Avonlea .
I 'd miss her terrible .
She 's the only close friend I 've get here and I 'd be lose without her .
We 've be neighbor for forty-five year and we 've never have a quarrel ... though we come rather near it that time you fly at Mrs. Rachel for call you homely and redhaired .
Do you remember , Anne ? ''
`` I should think I do , '' say Anne ruefully .
`` People do n't forget thing like that .
How I hat poor Mrs. Rachel at that moment ! ''
`` And then that ` apology ' you make her .
Well , you be a handful , in all conscience , Anne .
I do feel so puzzled and bewilder how to manage you .
Matthew understood you good . ''
`` Matthew understood everything , '' say Anne softly , a she always speak of him .
`` Well , I think it could be manage so that Rachel and I would n't clash at all .
It always seem to me that the reason two woman ca n't get along in one house be that they try to share the same kitchen and get in each other 's way .
Now , if Rachel come here , she could have the north gable for her bedroom and the spare room for a kitchen as well a not , for we do n't really need a spare room at all .
She could put her stove there and what furniture she want to keep , and be real comfortable and independent .
She 'll have enough to live on of course ... her child 'll see to that ... so all I 'd be give her would be house room .
Yes , Anne , far a I 'm concerned I 'd like it . ''
`` Then ask her , '' say Anne promptly .
`` I 'd be very sorry myself to see Mrs. Rachel go away . ''
`` And if she come , '' continue Marilla , `` You can go to college as well a not .
She 'll be company for me and she 'll do for the twin what I ca n't do , so there 's no reason in the world why you should n't go . ''
Anne have a long meditation at her window that night .
Joy and regret struggle together in her heart .
She have come at last ... suddenly and unexpectedly ... to the bend in the road ; and college be around it , with a hundred rainbow hope and vision ; but Anne realize as well that when she round that curve she must leave many sweet thing behind ... all the little simple duty and interest which have grow so dear to her in the last two year and which she have glorify into beauty and delight by the enthusiasm she have put into them .
She must give up her school ... and she love every one of her pupil , even the stupid and naughty one .
The mere thought of Paul Irving make her wonder if Redmond be such a name to conjure with after all .
`` I 've put out a lot of little root these two year , '' Anne tell the moon , `` and when I 'm pull up they 're go to hurt a great deal .
But it 's best to go , I think , and , a Marilla say , there 's no good reason why I should n't .
I must get out all my ambition and dust them . ''
Anne send in her resignation the next day ; and Mrs. Rachel , after a heart to heart talk with Marilla , gratefully accept the offer of a home at Green Gables .
She elect to remain in her own house for the summer , however ; the farm be not to be sell until the fall and there be many arrangement to be make .
`` I certainly never think of living a far off the road a Green Gables , '' sigh Mrs. Rachel to herself .
`` But really , Green Gables do n't seem a out of the world a it use to do ... Anne have lot of company and the twin make it real lively .
And anyhow , I 'd rather live at the bottom of a well than leave Avonlea . ''
These two decision be noise abroad speedily oust the arrival of Mrs. Harrison in popular gossip .
Sage head be shake over Marilla Cuthbert 's rash step in ask Mrs. Rachel to live with her .
People opine that they would n't get on together .
They be both `` too fond of their own way , '' and many doleful prediction be make , none of which disturb the party in question at all .
They have come to a clear and distinct understanding of the respective duty and right of their new arrangement and meant to abide by them .
`` I wo n't meddle with you nor you with me , '' Mrs. Rachel have say decidedly , `` and a for the twin , I 'll be glad to do all I can for them ; but I wo n't undertake to answer Davy 's question , that 's what .
I 'm not an encyclopedia , neither be I a Philadelphia lawyer .
You 'll miss Anne for that . ''
`` Sometimes Anne 's answer be about as queer a Davy 's question , '' say Marilla drily .
`` The twin will miss her and no mistake ; but her future ca n't be sacrifice to Davy 's thirst for information .
When he ask question I ca n't answer I 'll just tell him child should be see and not hear .
That be how I be bring up , and I do n't know but what it be just as good a way a all these new-fangled notion for train child . ''
`` Well , Anne 's method seem to have work fairly well with Davy , '' say Mrs. Lynde smilingly .
`` He be a reformed character , that 's what . ''
`` He be n't a bad little soul , '' concede Marilla .
`` I never expect to get a fond of those child a I have .
Davy get round you somehow ... and Dora be a lovely child , although she be ... kind of ... well , kind of ... '' `` Monotonous ?
Exactly , '' supply Mrs. Rachel .
`` Like a book where every page be the same , that 's what .
Dora will make a good , reliable woman but she 'll never set the pond on fire .
Well , that sort of folk be comfortable to have round , even if they 're not as interesting a the other kind . ''
Gilbert Blythe be probably the only person to whom the news of Anne 's resignation bring unmixed pleasure .
Her pupil look upon it a a sheer catastrophe .
Annetta Bell have hysteric when she go home .
Anthony Pye fight two pitched and unprovoked battle with other boy by way of relieve his feeling .
Barbara Shaw cry all night .
Paul Irving defiantly tell his grandmother that she need n't expect him to eat any porridge for a week .
`` I ca n't do it , Grandma , '' he say .
`` I do n't really know if I can eat ANYTHING .
I feel a if there be a dreadful lump in my throat .
I 'd have cry come home from school if Jake Donnell have n't be watch me .
I believe I will cry after I go to bed .
It would n't show on my eye tomorrow , would it ?
And it would be such a relief .
But anyway , I ca n't eat porridge .
I 'm go to need all my strength of mind to bear up against this , Grandma , and I wo n't have any leave to grapple with porridge .
Oh Grandma , I do n't know what I 'll do when my beautiful teacher go away .
Milty Boulter say he bet Jane Andrews will get the school .
I suppose Miss Andrews be very nice .
But I know she wo n't understand thing like Miss Shirley . ''
Diana also take a very pessimistic view of affair .
`` It will be horribly lonesome here next winter , '' she mourn , one twilight when the moonlight be rain `` airy silver '' through the cherry bough and fill the east gable with a soft , dream-like radiance in which the two girl sit and talk , Anne on her low rocker by the window , Diana sit Turkfashion on the bed .
`` You and Gilbert will be go ... and the Allans too .
They be go to call Mr. Allan to Charlottetown and of course he 'll accept .
It 's too mean .
We 'll be vacant all winter , I suppose , and have to listen to a long string of candidate ... and half of them wo n't be any good . ''
`` I hope they wo n't call Mr. Baxter from East Grafton here , anyhow , '' say Anne decidedly .
`` He want the call but he do preach such gloomy sermon .
Mr. Bell say he 's a minister of the old school , but Mrs. Lynde say there 's nothing whatever the matter with him but indigestion .
His wife be n't a very good cook , it seem , and Mrs. Lynde say that when a man have to eat sour bread two week out of three his theology be bind to get a kink in it somewhere .
Mrs. Allan feel very badly about go away .
She say everybody have be so kind to her since she come here a a bride that she feel a if she be leave lifelong friend .
And then , there 's the baby 's grave , you know .
She say she do n't see how she can go away and leave that ... it be such a little mite of a thing and only three month old , and she say she be afraid it will miss it mother , although she know good and would n't say so to Mr. Allan for anything .
She say she have slip through the birch grove back of the manse nearly every night to the graveyard and sing a little lullaby to it .
She tell me all about it last evening when I be up put some of those early wild rose on Matthew 's grave .
I promise her that as long a I be in Avonlea I would put flower on the baby 's grave and when I be away I felt sure that ... '' `` That I would do it , '' supply Diana heartily .
`` Of course I will .
And I 'll put them on Matthew 's grave too , for your sake , Anne . ''
`` Oh , thank you .
I mean to ask you to if you would .
And on little Hester Gray 's too ?
Please do n't forget hers .
Do you know , I 've think and dream so much about little Hester Gray that she have become strangely real to me .
I think of her , back there in her little garden in that cool , still , green corner ; and I have a fancy that if I could steal back there some spring evening , just at the magic time ` twixt light and dark , and tiptoe so softly up the beech hill that my footstep could not frighten her , I would find the garden just a it use to be , all sweet with June lily and early rose , with the tiny house beyond it all hung with vine ; and little Hester Gray would be there , with her soft eye , and the wind ruffle her dark hair , wander about , put her fingertip under the chin of the lily and whisper secret with the rose ; and I would go forward , oh , so softly , and hold out my hand and say to her , ` Little Hester Gray , wo n't you let me be your playmate , for I love the rose too ? '
And we would sit down on the old bench and talk a little and dream a little , or just be beautifully silent together .
And then the moon would rise and I would look around me ... and there would be no Hester Gray and no little vine-hung house , and no rose ... only an old waste garden star with June lily amid the grass , and the wind sighing , oh , so sorrowfully in the cherry tree .
And I would not know whether it have be real or if I have just imagine it all . ''
Diana crawl up and get her back against the headboard of the bed .
When your companion of twilight hour say such spooky thing it be just as well not to be able to fancy there be anything behind you .
`` I 'm afraid the Improvement Society will go down when you and Gilbert be both go , '' she remark dolefully .
`` Not a bit of fear of it , '' say Anne briskly , come back from dreamland to the affair of practical life .
`` It be too firmly establish for that , especially since the old people be become so enthusiastic about it .
Look what they be do this summer for their lawn and lane .
Besides , I 'll be watch for hint at Redmond and I 'll write a paper for it next winter and send it over .
Do n't take such a gloomy view of thing , Diana .
And do n't grudge me my little hour of gladness and jubilation now .
Later on , when I have to go away , I 'll feel anything but glad . ''
`` It 's all right for you to be glad ... you 're go to college and you 'll have a jolly time and make heap of lovely new friend . ''
`` I hope I shall make new friend , '' say Anne thoughtfully .
`` The possibility of make new friend help to make life very fascinating .
But no matter how many friend I make they 'll never be a dear to me a the old one ... especially a certain girl with black eye and dimple .
Can you guess who she be , Diana ? ''
`` But there 'll be so many clever girl at Redmond , '' sigh Diana , `` and I 'm only a stupid little country girl who say ' I see ' sometimes ... though I really know good when I stop to think .
Well , of course these past two year have really be too pleasant to last .
I know SOMEBODY who be glad you be go to Redmond anyhow .
Anne , I 'm go to ask you a question ... a serious question .
Do n't be vex and do answer seriously .
Do you care anything for Gilbert ? ''
`` Ever so much a a friend and not a bit in the way you mean , '' say Anne calmly and decidedly ; she also think she be speak sincerely .
Diana sigh .
She wish , somehow , that Anne have answer differently .
`` Do n't you mean EVER to be marry , Anne ? ''
`` Perhaps ... some day ... when I meet the right one , '' say Anne , smile dreamily up at the moonlight .
`` But how can you be sure when you do meet the right one ? ''
persist Diana .
`` Oh , I should know him ... SOMETHING would tell me .
You know what my ideal be , Diana . ''
`` But people 's ideal change sometimes . ''
`` Mine wo n't .
And I COULD N'T care for any man who do n't fulfill it . ''
`` What if you never meet him ? ''
`` Then I shall die an old maid , '' be the cheerful response .
`` I daresay it be n't the hard death by any mean . ''
`` Oh , I suppose the dying would be easy enough ; it 's the live an old maid I should n't like , '' say Diana , with no intention of be humorous .
`` Although I would n't mind be an old maid VERY much if I could be one like Miss Lavendar .
But I never could be .
When I 'm forty-five I 'll be horribly fat .
And while there might be some romance about a thin old maid there could n't possibly be any about a fat one .
Oh , mind you , Nelson Atkins propose to Ruby Gillis three week ago .
Ruby tell me all about it .
She say she never have any intention of take him , because any one who marry him will have to go in with the old folk ; but Ruby say that he make such a perfectly beautiful and romantic proposal that it simply sweep her off her foot .
But she do n't want to do anything rash so she ask for a week to consider ; and two day later she be at a meeting of the Sewing Circle at his mother 's and there be a book call ` The Complete Guide to Etiquette , ' lie on the parlor table .
Ruby say she simply could n't describe her feeling when in a section of it head , ` The Deportment of Courtship and Marriage , ' she find the very proposal Nelson have make , word for word .
She go home and write him a perfectly scathing refusal ; and she say his father and mother have take turn watch him ever since for fear he 'll drown himself in the river ; but Ruby say they need n't be afraid ; for in the Deportment of Courtship and Marriage it tell how a rejected lover should behave and there 's nothing about drown in THAT .
And she say Wilbur Blair be literally pin away for her but she 's perfectly helpless in the matter . ''
Anne make an impatient movement .
`` I hate to say it ... it seem so disloyal ... but , well , I do n't like Ruby Gillis now .
I like her when we go to school and Queen 's together ... though not so well a you and Jane of course .
But this last year at Carmody she seem so different ... so ... so ... '' `` I know , '' nod Diana .
`` It 's the Gillis come out in her ... she ca n't help it .
Mrs. Lynde say that if ever a Gillis girl think about anything but the boy she never show it in her walk and conversation .
She talk about nothing but boy and what compliment they pay her , and how crazy they all be about her at Carmody .
And the strange thing be , they ARE , too ... '' Diana admit this somewhat resentfully .
`` Last night when I saw her in Mr. Blair 's store she whisper to me that she 'd just make a new ` mash . '
I would n't ask her who it be , because I know she be die to BE ask .
Well , it 's what Ruby always want , I suppose .
You remember even when she be little she always say she mean to have dozen of beau when she grow up and have the very gay time she could before she settle down .
She 's so different from Jane , be n't she ?
Jane be such a nice , sensible , lady-like girl . ''
`` Dear old Jane be a jewel , '' agree Anne , `` but , '' she add , lean forward to bestow a tender pat on the plump , dimple little hand hang over her pillow , `` there 's nobody like my own Diana after all .
Do you remember that even we first meet , Diana , and ` swore ' eternal friendship in your garden ?
We 've keep that ` oath , ' I think ... we 've never have a quarrel nor even a coolness .
I shall never forget the thrill that go over me the day you tell me you love me .
I have have such a lonely , starve heart all through my childhood .
I 'm just begin to realize how starved and lonely it really be .
Nobody care anything for me or want to be bother with me .
I should have be miserable if it have n't be for that strange little dream-life of mine , wherein I imagine all the friend and love I crave .
But when I come to Green Gables everything be change .
And then I meet you .
You do n't know what your friendship meant to me .
I want to thank you here and now , dear , for the warm and true affection you 've always give me . ''
`` And always , always will , '' sob Diana .
`` I shall NEVER love anybody ... any GIRL ... half as well a I love you .
And if I ever do marry and have a little girl of my own I 'm go to name her ANNE . ''
XXVII An Afternoon at the Stone House `` Where be you go , all dress up , Anne ? ''
Davy want to know .
`` You look bully in that dress . ''
Anne have come down to dinner in a new dress of pale green muslin ... the first color she have wear since Matthew 's death .
It become her perfectly , bring out all the delicate , flower-like tint of her face and the gloss and burnish of her hair .
`` Davy , how many time have I tell you that you must n't use that word , '' she rebuke .
`` I 'm go to Echo Lodge . ''
`` Take me with you , '' entreat Davy .
`` I would if I be drive .
But I 'm go to walk and it 's too far for your eight-year-old leg .
Besides , Paul be go with me and I fear you do n't enjoy yourself in his company . ''
`` Oh , I like Paul lot well 'n I do , '' say Davy , begin to make fearful inroad into his pudding .
`` Since I 've get pretty good myself I do n't mind his be gooder so much .
If I can keep on I 'll catch up with him some day , both in leg and goodness .
` Sides , Paul 's real nice to u second primer boy in school .
He wo n't let the other big boy meddle with u and he show u lot of game . ''
`` How come Paul to fall into the brook at noon hour yesterday ? ''
ask Anne .
`` I meet him on the playground , such a dripping figure that I send him promptly home for clothes without wait to find out what have happen . ''
`` Well , it be partly a zacksident , '' explain Davy .
`` He stick his head in on purpose but the rest of him fell in zacksidentally .
We be all down at the brook and Prillie Rogerson get mad at Paul about something ... she 's awful mean and horrid anyway , if she IS pretty ... and say that his grandmother put his hair up in curl rag every night .
Paul would n't have mind what she say , I guess , but Gracie Andrews laugh , and Paul get awful red , 'cause Gracie 's his girl , you know .
He 's CLEAN GONE on her ... bring her flower and carry her book as far a the shore road .
He get as red a a beet and say his grandmother do n't do any such thing and his hair be bear curly .
And then he lay down on the bank and stick his head right into the spring to show them .
Oh , it be n't the spring we drink out of ... '' see a horrified look on Marilla 's face ... `` it be the little one low down .
But the bank 's awful slippy and Paul go right in .
I tell you he make a bully splash .
Oh , Anne , Anne , I do n't mean to say that ... it just slip out before I think .
He make a SPLENDID splash .
But he look so funny when he crawl out , all wet and muddy .
The girl laugh more 'n ever , but Gracie do n't laugh .
She look sorry .
Gracie 's a nice girl but she 's get a snub nose .
When I get big enough to have a girl I wo n't have one with a snub nose ... I 'll pick one with a pretty nose like yours , Anne . ''
`` A boy who make such a mess of syrup all over his face when he be eat his pudding will never get a girl to look at him , '' say Marilla severely .
`` But I 'll wash my face before I go court , '' protest Davy , try to improve matter by rub the back of his hand over the smear .
`` And I 'll wash behind my ear too , without be tell .
I remember to this morning , Marilla .
I do n't forget half as often a I do .
But ... '' and Davy sigh ... `` there 's so many corner about a fellow that it 's awful hard to remember them all .
Well , if I ca n't go to Miss Lavendar 's I 'll go over and see Mrs. Harrison .
Mrs. Harrison 's an awful nice woman , I tell you .
She keep a jar of cooky in her pantry a-purpose for little boy , and she always give me the scraping out of a pan she 's mixed up a plum cake in .
A good many plum stick to the side , you see .
Mr. Harrison be always a nice man , but he 's twice a nice since he get marry over again .
I guess get marry make folk nicer .
Why do n't YOU get marry , Marilla ?
I want to know . ''
Marilla 's state of single blessedness have never be a sore point with her , so she answer amiably , with an exchange of significant look with Anne , that she suppose it be because nobody would have her .
`` But maybe you never ask anybody to have you , '' protest Davy .
`` Oh , Davy , '' say Dora primly , shock into speak without be speak to , `` it 's the MEN that have to do the asking . ''
`` I do n't know why they have to do it ALWAYS , '' grumble Davy .
`` Seems to me everything 's put on the men in this world .
Can I have some more pudding , Marilla ? ''
`` You 've have as much a be good for you , '' say Marilla ; but she give him a moderate second help .
`` I wish people could live on pudding .
Why ca n't they , Marilla ?
I want to know . ''
`` Because they 'd soon get tire of it . ''
`` I 'd like to try that for myself , '' say skeptical Davy .
`` But I guess it 's good to have pudding only on fish and company day than none at all .
They never have any at Milty Boulter 's .
Milty say when company come his mother give them cheese and cut it herself ... one little bit apiece and one over for manner . ''
`` If Milty Boulter talk like that about his mother at least you need n't repeat it , '' say Marilla severely .
`` Bless my soul , '' ... Davy have pick this expression up from Mr. Harrison and use it with great gusto ... `` Milty meant it a a compelment .
He 's awful proud of his mother , cause folk say she could scratch a living on a rock . ''
`` I ... I suppose them pesky hen be in my pansy bed again , '' say Marilla , rise and go out hurriedly .
The slandered hen be nowhere near the pansy bed and Marilla do not even glance at it .
Instead , she sit down on the cellar hatch and laugh until she be ashamed of herself .
When Anne and Paul reach the stone house that afternoon they find Miss Lavendar and Charlotta the Fourth in the garden , weeding , rake , clip , and trim a if for dear life .
Miss Lavendar herself , all gay and sweet in the frill and lace she love , drop her shear and run joyously to meet her guest , while Charlotta the Fourth grin cheerfully .
`` Welcome , Anne .
I think you 'd come today .
You belong to the afternoon so it bring you .
Things that belong together be sure to come together .
What a lot of trouble that would save some people if they only know it .
But they do n't ... and so they waste beautiful energy move heaven and earth to bring thing together that DO N'T belong .
And you , Paul ... why , you 've grow !
You 're half a head taller than when you be here before . ''
`` Yes , I 've begin to grow like pigweed in the night , a Mrs. Lynde say , '' say Paul , in frank delight over the fact .
`` Grandma say it 's the porridge take effect at last .
Perhaps it be .
Goodness know ... '' Paul sigh deeply ... `` I 've eat enough to make anyone grow .
I do hope , now that I 've begin , I 'll keep on till I 'm as tall a father .
He be six foot , you know , Miss Lavendar . ''
Yes , Miss Lavendar do know ; the flush on her pretty cheek deepen a little ; she take Paul 's hand on one side and Anne 's on the other and walk to the house in silence .
`` Is it a good day for the echo , Miss Lavendar ? ''
query Paul anxiously .
The day of his first visit have be too windy for echo and Paul have be much disappointed .
`` Yes , just the best kind of a day , '' answer Miss Lavendar , rouse herself from her reverie .
`` But first we be all go to have something to eat .
I know you two folk do n't walk all the way back here through those beechwood without get hungry , and Charlotta the Fourth and I can eat any hour of the day ... we have such obliging appetite .
So we 'll just make a raid on the pantry .
Fortunately it 's lovely and full .
I have a presentiment that I be go to have company today and Charlotta the Fourth and I prepare . ''
`` I think you be one of the people who always have nice thing in their pantry , '' declare Paul .
`` Grandma 's like that too .
But she do n't approve of snack between meal .
I wonder , '' he add meditatively , `` if I OUGHT to eat them away from home when I know she do n't approve . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think she would disapprove after you have have a long walk .
That make a difference , '' say Miss Lavendar , exchange amused glance with Anne over Paul 's brown curl .
`` I suppose that snack ARE extremely unwholesome .
That be why we have them so often at Echo Lodge .
We ... Charlotta the Fourth and I ... live in defiance of every known law of diet .
We eat all sort of indigestible thing whenever we happen to think of it , by day or night ; and we flourish like green bay tree .
We be always intend to reform .
When we read any article in a paper warn u against something we like we cut it out and pin it up on the kitchen wall so that we 'll remember it .
But we never can somehow ... until after we 've go and eat that very thing .
Nothing have ever kill u yet ; but Charlotta the Fourth have be know to have bad dream after we have eat doughnut and mince pie and fruit cake before we go to bed . ''
`` Grandma let me have a glass of milk and a slice of bread and butter before I go to bed ; and on Sunday night she put jam on the bread , '' say Paul .
`` So I 'm always glad when it 's Sunday night ... for more reason than one .
Sunday be a very long day on the shore road .
Grandma say it 's all too short for her and that father never find Sundays tiresome when he be a little boy .
It would n't seem so long if I could talk to my rock people but I never do that because Grandma do n't approve of it on Sundays .
I think a good deal ; but I 'm afraid my thought be worldly .
Grandma say we should never think anything but religious thought on Sundays .
But teacher here say once that every really beautiful thought be religious , no matter what it be about , or what day we think it on .
But I feel sure Grandma think that sermon and Sunday School lesson be the only thing you can think truly religious thought about .
And when it come to a difference of opinion between Grandma and teacher I do n't know what to do .
In my heart '' ... Paul lay his hand on his breast and raise very serious blue eye to Miss Lavendar 's immediately sympathetic face ... `` I agree with teacher .
But then , you see , Grandma have bring father up HER way and make a brilliant success of him ; and teacher have never bring anybody up yet , though she 's help with Davy and Dora .
But you ca n't tell how they 'll turn out till they ARE grow up .
So sometimes I feel a if it might be safe to go by Grandma 's opinion . ''
`` I think it would , '' agree Anne solemnly .
`` Anyway , I daresay that if your Grandma and I both get down to what we really do mean , under our different way of express it , we 'd find out we both mean much the same thing .
You 'd better go by her way of express it , since it 's be the result of experience .
We 'll have to wait until we see how the twin do turn out before we can be sure that my way be equally good . ''
After lunch they go back to the garden , where Paul make the acquaintance of the echo , to his wonder and delight , while Anne and Miss Lavendar sit on the stone bench under the poplar and talk .
`` So you be go away in the fall ? ''
say Miss Lavendar wistfully .
`` I ought to be glad for your sake , Anne ... but I 'm horribly , selfishly sorry .
I shall miss you so much .
Oh , sometimes , I think it be of no use to make friend .
They only go out of your life after awhile and leave a hurt that be bad than the emptiness before they come . ''
`` That sound like something Miss Eliza Andrews might say but never Miss Lavendar , '' say Anne .
`` NOTHING be bad than emptiness ... and I 'm not go out of your life .
There be such thing a letter and vacation .
Dearest , I 'm afraid you 're look a little pale and tire . ''
`` Oh ... hoo ... hoo ... hoo , '' go Paul on the dyke , where he have be make noise diligently ... not all of them melodious in the making , but all come back transmute into the very gold and silver of sound by the fairy alchemists over the river .
Miss Lavendar make an impatient movement with her pretty hand .
`` I 'm just tire of everything ... even of the echo .
There be nothing in my life but echo ... echo of lose hope and dream and joy .
They 're beautiful and mocking .
Oh Anne , it 's horrid of me to talk like this when I have company .
It 's just that I 'm get old and it do n't agree with me .
I know I 'll be fearfully cranky by the time I 'm sixty .
But perhaps all I need be a course of blue pill . ''
At this moment Charlotta the Fourth , who have disappear after lunch , return , and announce that the northeast corner of Mr. John Kimball 's pasture be red with early strawberry , and would n't Miss Shirley like to go and pick some .
`` Early strawberry for tea ! ''
exclaim Miss Lavendar .
`` Oh , I 'm not so old a I think ... and I do n't need a single blue pill !
Girls , when you come back with your strawberry we 'll have tea out here under the silver poplar .
I 'll have it all ready for you with home-grown cream . ''
Anne and Charlotta the Fourth accordingly betook themselves back to Mr. Kimball 's pasture , a green remote place where the air be as soft a velvet and fragrant a a bed of violet and golden a amber .
`` Oh , be n't it sweet and fresh back here ? ''
breathe Anne .
`` I just feel a if I be drink in the sunshine . ''
`` Yes , ma'am , so do I . That 's just exactly how I feel too , ma'am , '' agree Charlotta the Fourth , who would have say precisely the same thing if Anne have remark that she felt like a pelican of the wilderness .
Always after Anne have visit Echo Lodge Charlotta the Fourth mount to her little room over the kitchen and try before her look glass to speak and look and move like Anne .
Charlotta could never flatter herself that she quite succeed ; but practice make perfect , a Charlotta have learn at school , and she fondly hop that in time she might catch the trick of that dainty uplift of chin , that quick , starry outflashing of eye , that fashion of walking a if you be a bough swaying in the wind .
It seem so easy when you watch Anne .
Charlotta the Fourth admire Anne wholeheartedly .
It be not that she think her so very handsome .
Diana Barry 's beauty of crimson cheek and black curl be much more to Charlotta the Fourth 's taste than Anne 's moonshine charm of luminous gray eye and the pale , everchanging rose of her cheek .
`` But I 'd rather look like you than be pretty , '' she tell Anne sincerely .
Anne laugh , sip the honey from the tribute , and cast away the sting .
She be use to take her compliment mixed .
Public opinion never agree on Anne 's look .
People who have hear her call handsome meet her and be disappoint .
People who have hear her call plain saw her and wonder where other people 's eye be .
Anne herself would never believe that she have any claim to beauty .
When she look in the glass all she saw be a little pale face with seven freckle on the nose thereof .
Her mirror never reveal to her the elusive , ever-varying play of feeling that come and go over her feature like a rosy illuminating flame , or the charm of dream and laughter alternating in her big eye .
While Anne be not beautiful in any strictly define sense of the word she possess a certain evasive charm and distinction of appearance that leave beholder with a pleasurable sense of satisfaction in that softly round girlhood of hers , with all it strongly felt potentiality .
Those who know Anne best felt , without realize that they felt it , that her great attraction be the aura of possibility surround her ... the power of future development that be in her .
She seem to walk in an atmosphere of thing about to happen .
As they pick , Charlotta the Fourth confide to Anne her fear regard Miss Lavendar .
The warm-hearted little handmaiden be honestly worry over her adored mistress ' condition .
`` Miss Lavendar be n't well , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
I 'm sure she be n't , though she never complain .
She have n't seem like herself this long while , ma'am ... not since that day you and Paul be here together before .
I feel sure she catch cold that night , ma'am .
After you and him have go she go out and walk in the garden for long after dark with nothing but a little shawl on her .
There be a lot of snow on the walk and I feel sure she get a chill , ma'am .
Ever since then I 've notice her acting tired and lonesome like .
She do n't seem to take an interest in anything , ma'am .
She never pretend company 's coming , nor fix up for it , nor nothing , ma'am .
It 's only when you come she seem to chirk up a bit .
And the bad sign of all , Miss Shirley , ma'am ... '' Charlotta the Fourth lower her voice a if she be about to tell some exceedingly weird and awful symptom indeed ... `` be that she never get cross now when I break thing .
Why , Miss Shirley , ma'am , yesterday I bruk her green and yaller bowl that 's always stand on the bookcase .
Her grandmother bring it out from England and Miss Lavendar be awful choice of it .
I be dust it just a careful , Miss Shirley , ma'am , and it slip out , so fashion , afore I could grab holt of it , and bruk into about forty millyun piece .
I tell you I be sorry and scar .
I think Miss Lavendar would scold me awful , ma'am ; and I 'd ruther she have than take it the way she do .
She just come in and hardly look at it and say , ` It 's no matter , Charlotta .
Take up the piece and throw them away . '
Just like that , Miss Shirley , ma'am ... ` take up the piece and throw them away , ' a if it be n't her grandmother 's bowl from England .
Oh , she be n't well and I feel awful bad about it .
She 's get nobody to look after her but me . ''
Charlotta the Fourth 's eye brim up with tear .
Anne pat the little brown paw hold the cracked pink cup sympathetically .
`` I think Miss Lavendar need a change , Charlotta .
She stay here alone too much .
Ca n't we induce her to go away for a little trip ? ''
Charlotta shake her head , with it rampant bow , disconsolately .
`` I do n't think so , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
Miss Lavendar hat visit .
She 's only get three relation she ever visit and she say she just go to see them a a family duty .
Last time when she come home she say she be n't go to visit for family duty no more .
` I 've come home in love with loneliness , Charlotta , ' she say to me , ` and I never want to stray from my own vine and fig tree again .
My relation try so hard to make an old lady of me and it have a bad effect on me . '
Just like that , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
` It have a very bad effect on me . '
So I do n't think it would do any good to coax her to go visiting . ''
`` We must see what can be do , '' say Anne decidedly , a she put the last possible berry in her pink cup .
`` Just as soon a I have my vacation I 'll come through and spend a whole week with you .
We 'll have a picnic every day and pretend all sort of interesting thing , and see if we ca n't cheer Miss Lavendar up . ''
`` That will be the very thing , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' exclaim Charlotta the Fourth in rapture .
She be glad for Miss Lavendar 's sake and for her own too .
With a whole week in which to study Anne constantly she would surely be able to learn how to move and behave like her .
When the girl get back to Echo Lodge they find that Miss Lavendar and Paul have carry the little square table out of the kitchen to the garden and have everything ready for tea .
Nothing ever taste so delicious a those strawberry and cream , eat under a great blue sky all curdle over with fluffy little white cloud , and in the long shadow of the wood with it lispings and it murmuring .
After tea Anne help Charlotta wash the dish in the kitchen , while Miss Lavendar sit on the stone bench with Paul and hear all about his rock people .
She be a good listener , this sweet Miss Lavendar , but just at the last it strike Paul that she have suddenly lose interest in the Twin Sailors .
`` Miss Lavendar , why do you look at me like that ? ''
he ask gravely .
`` How do I look , Paul ? ''
`` Just a if you be look through me at somebody I put you in mind of , '' say Paul , who have such occasional flash of uncanny insight that it be n't quite safe to have secret when he be about .
`` You do put me in mind of somebody I know long ago , '' say Miss Lavendar dreamily .
`` When you be young ? ''
`` Yes , when I be young .
Do I seem very old to you , Paul ? ''
`` Do you know , I ca n't make up my mind about that , '' say Paul confidentially .
`` Your hair look old ... I never know a young person with white hair .
But your eye be as young a my beautiful teacher 's when you laugh .
I tell you what , Miss Lavendar '' ... Paul 's voice and face be as solemn a a judge 's ... `` I think you would make a splendid mother .
You have just the right look in your eye ... the look my little mother always have .
I think it 's a pity you have n't any boy of your own . ''
`` I have a little dream boy , Paul . ''
`` Oh , have you really ?
How old be he ? ''
`` About your age I think .
He ought to be old because I dream him long before you be bear .
But I 'll never let him get any old than eleven or twelve ; because if I do some day he might grow up altogether and then I 'd lose him . ''
`` I know , '' nod Paul .
`` That 's the beauty of dream-people ... they stay any age you want them .
You and my beautiful teacher and me myself be the only folk in the world that I know of that have dream-people .
Is n't it funny and nice we should all know each other ?
But I guess that kind of people always find each other out .
Grandma never have dream-people and Mary Joe think I 'm wrong in the upper story because I have them .
But I think it 's splendid to have them .
YOU know , Miss Lavendar .
Tell me all about your little dream-boy . ''
`` He have blue eye and curly hair .
He steal in and wakens me with a kiss every morning .
Then all day he play here in the garden ... and I play with him .
Such game a we have .
We run race and talk with the echo ; and I tell him story .
And when twilight come ... '' `` I know , '' interrupt Paul eagerly .
`` He come and sits beside you ... SO ... because of course at twelve he 'd be too big to climb into your lap ... and lay his head on your shoulder ... SO ... and you put your arm about him and hold him tight , tight , and rest your cheek on his head ... yes , that 's the very way .
Oh , you DO know , Miss Lavendar . ''
Anne find the two of them there when she come out of the stone house , and something in Miss Lavendar 's face make her hate to disturb them .
`` I 'm afraid we must go , Paul , if we want to get home before dark .
Miss Lavendar , I 'm go to invite myself to Echo Lodge for a whole week pretty soon . ''
`` If you come for a week I 'll keep you for two , '' threaten Miss Lavendar .
XXVIII The Prince Comes Back to the Enchanted Palace The last day of school come and go .
A triumphant `` semi-annual examination '' be hold and Anne 's pupil acquit themselves splendidly .
At the close they give her an address and a writing desk .
All the girl and lady present cry , and some of the boy have it cast up to them later on that they cry too , although they always deny it .
Mrs. Harmon Andrews , Mrs. Peter Sloane , and Mrs. William Bell walk home together and talk thing over .
`` I do think it be such a pity Anne be leave when the child seem so much attach to her , '' sigh Mrs. Peter Sloane , who have a habit of sigh over everything and even finish off her joke that way .
`` To be sure , '' she add hastily , `` we all know we 'll have a good teacher next year too . ''
`` Jane will do her duty , I 've no doubt , '' say Mrs. Andrews rather stiffly .
`` I do n't suppose she 'll tell the child quite so many fairy tale or spend so much time roam about the wood with them .
But she have her name on the Inspector 's Roll of Honor and the Newbridge people be in a terrible state over her leaving . ''
`` I 'm real glad Anne be go to college , '' say Mrs. Bell .
`` She have always want it and it will be a splendid thing for her . ''
`` Well , I do n't know . ''
Mrs. Andrews be determine not to agree fully with anybody that day .
`` I do n't see that Anne need any more education .
She 'll probably be marry Gilbert Blythe , if his infatuation for her last till he get through college , and what good will Latin and Greek do her then ?
If they teach you at college how to manage a man there might be some sense in her go . ''
Mrs. Harmon Andrews , so Avonlea gossip whisper , have never learn how to manage her `` man , '' and a a result the Andrews household be not exactly a model of domestic happiness .
`` I see that the Charlottetown call to Mr. Allan be up before the Presbytery , '' say Mrs. Bell .
`` That mean we 'll be lose him soon , I suppose . ''
`` They 're not go before September , '' say Mrs. Sloane .
`` It will be a great loss to the community ... though I always do think that Mrs. Allan dress rather too gay for a minister 's wife .
But we be none of u perfect .
Did you notice how neat and snug Mr. Harrison look today ?
I never saw such a changed man .
He go to church every Sunday and have subscribe to the salary . ''
`` Has n't that Paul Irving grown to be a big boy ? ''
say Mrs. Andrews .
`` He be such a mite for his age when he come here .
I declare I hardly know him today .
He 's get to look a lot like his father . ''
`` He 's a smart boy , '' say Mrs. Bell .
`` He 's smart enough , but '' ... Mrs. Andrews lower her voice ... `` I believe he tell queer story .
Gracie come home from school one day last week with the great rigmarole he have tell her about people who live down at the shore ... story there could n't be a word of truth in , you know .
I tell Gracie not to believe them , and she say Paul do n't intend her to .
But if he do n't what do he tell them to her for ? ''
`` Anne say Paul be a genius , '' say Mrs. Sloane .
`` He may be .
You never know what to expect of them Americans , '' say Mrs. Andrews .
Mrs. Andrews ' only acquaintance with the word `` genius '' be derive from the colloquial fashion of call any eccentric individual `` a queer genius . ''
She probably think , with Mary Joe , that it mean a person with something wrong in his upper story .
Back in the schoolroom Anne be sit alone at her desk , a she have sit on the first day of school two year before , her face lean on her hand , her dewy eye look wistfully out of the window to the Lake of Shining Waters .
Her heart be so wrung over the parting with her pupil that for a moment college have lose all it charm .
She still felt the clasp of Annetta Bell 's arm about her neck and hear the childish wail , `` I 'll NEVER love any teacher as much a you , Miss Shirley , never , never . ''
For two year she have work earnestly and faithfully , make many mistake and learn from them .
She have have her reward .
She have teach her scholar something , but she felt that they have teach her much more ... lesson of tenderness , self-control , innocent wisdom , lore of childish heart .
Perhaps she have not succeed in `` inspiring '' any wonderful ambition in her pupil , but she have teach them , more by her own sweet personality than by all her careful precept , that it be good and necessary in the year that be before them to live their life finely and graciously , hold fast to truth and courtesy and kindness , keep aloof from all that savor of falsehood and meanness and vulgarity .
They be , perhaps , all unconscious of have learn such lesson ; but they would remember and practice them long after they have forget the capital of Afghanistan and the date of the Wars of the Roses .
`` Another chapter in my life be close , '' say Anne aloud , a she lock her desk .
She really felt very sad over it ; but the romance in the idea of that `` close chapter '' do comfort her a little .
Anne spend a fortnight at Echo Lodge early in her vacation and everybody concern have a good time .
She take Miss Lavendar on a shopping expedition to town and persuade her to buy a new organdy dress ; then come the excitement of cut and make it together , while the happy Charlotta the Fourth baste and sweep up clipping .
Miss Lavendar have complain that she could not feel much interest in anything , but the sparkle come back to her eye over her pretty dress .
`` What a foolish , frivolous person I must be , '' she sigh .
`` I 'm wholesomely ashamed to think that a new dress ... even it be a forget-me-not organdy ... should exhilarate me so , when a good conscience and an extra contribution to Foreign Missions could n't do it . ''
Midway in her visit Anne go home to Green Gables for a day to mend the twin ' stocking and settle up Davy 's accumulated store of question .
In the evening she go down to the shore road to see Paul Irving .
As she pass by the low , square window of the Irving sitting room she catch a glimpse of Paul on somebody 's lap ; but the next moment he come fly through the hall .
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , '' he cry excitedly , `` you ca n't think what have happen !
Something so splendid .
Father be here ... just think of that !
Father be here !
Come right in .
Father , this be my beautiful teacher .
YOU know , father . ''
Stephen Irving come forward to meet Anne with a smile .
He be a tall , handsome man of middle age , with iron-gray hair , deep-set , dark blue eye , and a strong , sad face , splendidly model about chin and brow .
Just the face for a hero of romance , Anne think with a thrill of intense satisfaction .
It be so disappointing to meet someone who ought to be a hero and find him bald or stoop , or otherwise lack in manly beauty .
Anne would have think it dreadful if the object of Miss Lavendar 's romance have not look the part .
`` So this be my little son 's ` beautiful teacher , ' of whom I have hear so much , '' say Mr. Irving with a hearty handshake .
`` Paul 's letter have be so full of you , Miss Shirley , that I feel a if I be pretty well acquaint with you already .
I want to thank you for what you have do for Paul .
I think that your influence have be just what he need .
Mother be one of the best and dear of woman ; but her robust , matter-of-fact Scotch common sense could not always understand a temperament like my laddie 's .
What be lack in her you have supply .
Between you , I think Paul 's training in these two past year have be a nearly ideal a a motherless boy 's could be . ''
Everybody like to be appreciate .
Under Mr. Irving 's praise Anne 's face `` burst flower like into rosy bloom , '' and the busy , weary man of the world , look at her , think he have never see a fairer , sweet slip of girlhood than this little `` down east '' schoolteacher with her red hair and wonderful eye .
Paul sit between them blissfully happy .
`` I never dream father be come , '' he say radiantly .
`` Even Grandma do n't know it .
It be a great surprise .
As a general thing ... '' Paul shake his brown curl gravely ... `` I do n't like to be surprise .
You lose all the fun of expect thing when you 're surprise .
But in a case like this it be all right .
Father come last night after I have go to bed .
And after Grandma and Mary Joe have stop be surprise he and Grandma come upstairs to look at me , not mean to wake me up till morning .
But I wake right up and saw father .
I tell you I just spring at him . ''
`` With a hug like a bear 's , '' say Mr. Irving , put his arm around Paul 's shoulder smilingly .
`` I hardly know my boy , he have grow so big and brown and sturdy . ''
`` I do n't know which be the most pleased to see father , Grandma or I , '' continue Paul .
`` Grandma 's be in kitchen all day make the thing father like to eat .
She would n't trust them to Mary Joe , she say .
That 's HER way of show gladness .
I like best just to sit and talk to father .
But I 'm go to leave you for a little while now if you 'll excuse me .
I must get the cow for Mary Joe .
That be one of my daily duty . ''
When Paul have scamper away to do his `` daily duty '' Mr. Irving talk to Anne of various matter .
But Anne felt that he be think of something else underneath all the time .
Presently it come to the surface .
`` In Paul 's last letter he speak of go with you to visit an old ... friend of mine ... Miss Lewis at the stone house in Grafton .
Do you know her well ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , she be a very dear friend of mine , '' be Anne 's demure reply , which give no hint of the sudden thrill that tingle over her from head to foot at Mr. Irving 's question .
Anne `` felt instinctively '' that romance be peep at her around a corner .
Mr. Irving rise and go to the window , look out on a great , golden , billow sea where a wild wind be harp .
For a few moment there be silence in the little dark-walled room .
Then he turn and look down into Anne 's sympathetic face with a smile , half-whimsical , half-tender .
`` I wonder how much you know , '' he say .
`` I know all about it , '' reply Anne promptly .
`` You see , '' she explain hastily , `` Miss Lavendar and I be very intimate .
She would n't tell thing of such a sacred nature to everybody .
We be kindred spirit . ''
`` Yes , I believe you be .
Well , I be go to ask a favor of you .
I would like to go and see Miss Lavendar if she will let me .
Will you ask her if I may come ? ''
Would she not ?
Oh , indeed she would !
Yes , this be romance , the very , the real thing , with all the charm of rhyme and story and dream .
It be a little belated , perhaps , like a rise blooming in October which should have bloom in June ; but none the less a rise , all sweetness and fragrance , with the gleam of gold in it heart .
Never do Anne 's foot bear her on a more willing errand than on that walk through the beechwood to Grafton the next morning .
She find Miss Lavendar in the garden .
Anne be fearfully excite .
Her hand grow cold and her voice tremble .
`` Miss Lavendar , I have something to tell you ... something very important .
Can you guess what it be ? ''
Anne never suppose that Miss Lavendar could GUESS ; but Miss Lavendar 's face grow very pale and Miss Lavendar say in a quiet , still voice , from which all the color and sparkle that Miss Lavendar 's voice usually suggest have fade .
`` Stephen Irving be home ? ''
`` How do you know ?
Who tell you ? ''
cry Anne disappointedly , vex that her great revelation have be anticipate .
`` Nobody .
I know that must be it , just from the way you speak . ''
`` He want to come and see you , '' say Anne .
`` May I send him word that he may ? ''
`` Yes , of course , '' flutter Miss Lavendar .
`` There be no reason why he should n't .
He be only come a any old friend might . ''
Anne have her own opinion about that a she hasten into the house to write a note at Miss Lavendar 's desk .
`` Oh , it 's delightful to be live in a storybook , '' she think gaily .
`` It will come out all right of course ... it must ... and Paul will have a mother after his own heart and everybody will be happy .
But Mr. Irving will take Miss Lavendar away ... and dear know what will happen to the little stone house ... and so there be two side to it , a there seem to be to everything in this world . ''
The important note be write and Anne herself carry it to the Grafton post office , where she waylay the mail carrier and ask him to leave it at the Avonlea office .
`` It 's so very important , '' Anne assure him anxiously .
The mail carrier be a rather grumpy old personage who do not at all look the part of a messenger of Cupid ; and Anne be none too certain that his memory be to be trust .
But he say he would do his best to remember and she have to be content with that .
Charlotta the Fourth felt that some mystery pervade the stone house that afternoon ... a mystery from which she be exclude .
Miss Lavendar roam about the garden in a distracted fashion .
Anne , too , seem possess by a demon of unrest , and walk to and fro and go up and down .
Charlotta the Fourth endure it till patience cease to be a virtue ; then she confront Anne on the occasion of that romantic young person 's third aimless peregrination through the kitchen .
`` Please , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' say Charlotta the Fourth , with an indignant toss of her very blue bow , `` it 's plain to be see you and Miss Lavendar have get a secret and I think , beg your pardon if I 'm too forward , Miss Shirley , ma'am , that it 's real mean not to tell me when we 've all be such chum . ''
`` Oh , Charlotta dear , I 'd have tell you all about it if it be my secret ... but it 's Miss Lavendar 's , you see .
However , I 'll tell you this much ... and if nothing come of it you must never breathe a word about it to a living soul .
You see , Prince Charming be come tonight .
He come long ago , but in a foolish moment go away and wander afar and forget the secret of the magic pathway to the enchanted castle , where the princess be weep her faithful heart out for him .
But at last he remember it again and the princess be wait still ... because nobody but her own dear prince could carry her off . ''
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , what be that in prose ? ''
gasp the mystified Charlotta .
Anne laugh .
`` In prose , an old friend of Miss Lavendar 's be come to see her tonight . ''
`` Do you mean an old beau of hers ? ''
demand the literal Charlotta .
`` That be probably what I do mean ... in prose , '' answer Anne gravely .
`` It be Paul 's father ... Stephen Irving .
And goodness know what will come of it , but let u hope for the best , Charlotta . ''
`` I hope that he 'll marry Miss Lavendar , '' be Charlotta 's unequivocal response .
`` Some woman 's intend from the start to be old maid , and I 'm afraid I 'm one of them , Miss Shirley , ma'am , because I 've awful little patience with the men .
But Miss Lavendar never be .
And I 've be awful worried , think what on earth she 'd do when I get so big I 'd HAVE to go to Boston .
There ai n't any more girl in our family and dear know what she 'd do if she get some stranger that might laugh at her pretending and leave thing lie round out of their place and not be willing to be call Charlotta the Fifth .
She might get someone who would n't be as unlucky a me in break dish but she 'd never get anyone who 'd love her better . ''
And the faithful little handmaiden dash to the oven door with a sniff .
They go through the form of have tea a usual that night at Echo Lodge ; but nobody really ate anything .
After tea Miss Lavendar go to her room and put on her new forget-me-not organdy , while Anne do her hair for her .
Both be dreadfully excite ; but Miss Lavendar pretend to be very calm and indifferent .
`` I must really mend that rent in the curtain tomorrow , '' she say anxiously , inspect it a if it be the only thing of any importance just then .
`` Those curtain have not wear as well a they should , consider the price I pay .
Dear me , Charlotta have forget to dust the stair rail AGAIN .
I really MUST speak to her about it . ''
Anne be sit on the porch step when Stephen Irving come down the lane and across the garden .
`` This be the one place where time stand still , '' he say , look around him with delighted eye .
`` There be nothing change about this house or garden since I be here twenty-five year ago .
It make me feel young again . ''
`` You know time always do stand still in an enchanted palace , '' say Anne seriously .
`` It be only when the prince come that thing begin to happen . ''
Mr. Irving smile a little sadly into her uplifted face , all astar with it youth and promise .
`` Sometimes the prince come too late , '' he say .
He do not ask Anne to translate her remark into prose .
Like all kindred spirit he `` understood . ''
`` Oh , no , not if he be the real prince come to the true princess , '' say Anne , shake her red head decidedly , a she open the parlor door .
When he have go in she shut it tightly behind him and turn to confront Charlotta the Fourth , who be in the hall , all `` nod and beck and wreathe smile . ''
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' she breathe , `` I peek from the kitchen window ... and he 's awful handsome ... and just the right age for Miss Lavendar .
And oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , do you think it would be much harm to listen at the door ? ''
`` It would be dreadful , Charlotta , '' say Anne firmly , `` so just you come away with me out of the reach of temptation . ''
`` I ca n't do anything , and it 's awful to hang round just wait , '' sigh Charlotta .
`` What if he do n't propose after all , Miss Shirley , ma'am ?
You can never be sure of them men .
My old sister , Charlotta the First , think she be engage to one once .
But it turn out HE have a different opinion and she say she 'll never trust one of them again .
And I hear of another case where a man thought he want one girl awful bad when it be really her sister he want all the time .
When a man do n't know his own mind , Miss Shirley , ma'am , how 's a poor woman go to be sure of it ? ''
`` We 'll go to the kitchen and clean the silver spoon , '' say Anne .
`` That 's a task which wo n't require much thinking fortunately ... for I COULD N'T think tonight .
And it will pass the time . ''
It pass an hour .
Then , just a Anne lay down the last shining spoon , they hear the front door shut .
Both seek comfort fearfully in each other 's eye .
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' gasp Charlotta , `` if he 's go away this early there 's nothing into it and never will be . ''
They fly to the window .
Mr. Irving have no intention of go away .
He and Miss Lavendar be stroll slowly down the middle path to the stone bench .
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , he 's get his arm around her waist , '' whisper Charlotta the Fourth delightedly .
`` He must have propose to her or she 'd never allow it . ''
Anne catch Charlotta the Fourth by her own plump waist and dance her around the kitchen until they be both out of breath .
`` Oh , Charlotta , '' she cry gaily , `` I 'm neither a prophetess nor the daughter of a prophetess but I 'm go to make a prediction .
There 'll be a wedding in this old stone house before the maple leaf be red .
Do you want that translate into prose , Charlotta ? ''
`` No , I can understand that , '' say Charlotta .
`` A wedding ai n't poetry .
Why , Miss Shirley , ma'am , you 're cry !
What for ? ''
`` Oh , because it 's all so beautiful ... and story bookish ... and romantic ... and sad , '' say Anne , wink the tear out of her eye .
`` It 's all perfectly lovely ... but there 's a little sadness mix up in it too , somehow . ''
`` Oh , of course there 's a resk in marry anybody , '' concede Charlotta the Fourth , `` but , when all 's say and do , Miss Shirley , ma'am , there 's many a bad thing than a husband . ''
XXIX Poetry and Prose For the next month Anne live in what , for Avonlea , might be call a whirl of excitement .
The preparation of her own modest outfit for Redmond be of secondary importance .
Miss Lavendar be get ready to be marry and the stone house be the scene of endless consultation and planning and discussion , with Charlotta the Fourth hovering on the outskirt of thing in agitated delight and wonder .
Then the dressmaker come , and there be the rapture and wretchedness of choose fashion and be fit .
Anne and Diana spend half their time at Echo Lodge and there be night when Anne could not sleep for wonder whether she have do right in advise Miss Lavendar to select brown rather than navy blue for her traveling dress , and to have her gray silk make princess .
Everybody concern in Miss Lavendar 's story be very happy .
Paul Irving rush to Green Gables to talk the news over with Anne as soon a his father have tell him .
`` I know I could trust father to pick me out a nice little second mother , '' he say proudly .
`` It 's a fine thing to have a father you can depend on , teacher .
I just love Miss Lavendar .
Grandma be pleased , too .
She say she 's real glad father do n't pick out an American for his second wife , because , although it turn out all right the first time , such a thing would n't be likely to happen twice .
Mrs. Lynde say she thoroughly approves of the match and think it likely Miss Lavendar will give up her queer notion and be like other people , now that she 's go to be marry .
But I hope she wo n't give her queer notion up , teacher , because I like them .
And I do n't want her to be like other people .
There be too many other people around a it be .
YOU know , teacher . ''
Charlotta the Fourth be another radiant person .
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , it have all turn out so beautiful .
When Mr. Irving and Miss Lavendar come back from their tower I 'm to go up to Boston and live with them ... and me only fifteen , and the other girl never go till they be sixteen .
Ai n't Mr. Irving splendid ?
He just worship the ground she tread on and it make me feel so queer sometimes to see the look in his eye when he 's watch her .
It beggar description , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
I 'm awful thankful they 're so fond of each other .
It 's the best way , when all 's say and do , though some folk can get along without it .
I 've get an aunt who have be marry three time and say she marry the first time for love and the last two time for strictly business , and be happy with all three except at the time of the funeral .
But I think she take a resk , Miss Shirley , ma'am . ''
`` Oh , it 's all so romantic , '' breathe Anne to Marilla that night .
`` If I have n't take the wrong path that day we go to Mr. Kimball 's I 'd never have know Miss Lavendar ; and if I have n't meet her I 'd never have take Paul there ... and he 'd never have write to his father about visit Miss Lavendar just a Mr. Irving be start for San Francisco .
Mr. Irving say whenever he get that letter he make up his mind to send his partner to San Francisco and come here instead .
He have n't hear anything of Miss Lavendar for fifteen year .
Somebody have tell him then that she be to be marry and he think she be and never ask anybody anything about her .
And now everything have come right .
And I have a hand in bring it about .
Perhaps , a Mrs. Lynde say , everything be foreordain and it be bind to happen anyway .
But even so , it 's nice to think one be an instrument use by predestination .
Yes indeed , it 's very romantic . ''
`` I ca n't see that it 's so terribly romantic at all , '' say Marilla rather crisply .
Marilla think Anne be too work up about it and have plenty to do with get ready for college without `` traipse '' to Echo Lodge two day out of three help Miss Lavendar .
`` In the first place two young fool quarrel and turn sulky ; then Steve Irving go to the States and after a spell get marry up there and be perfectly happy from all account .
Then his wife dy and after a decent interval he think he 'll come home and see if his first fancy 'll have him .
Meanwhile , she 's be live single , probably because nobody nice enough come along to want her , and they meet and agree to be marry after all .
Now , where be the romance in all that ? ''
`` Oh , there be n't any , when you put it that way , '' gasp Anne , rather a if somebody have throw cold water over her .
`` I suppose that 's how it look in prose .
But it 's very different if you look at it through poetry ... and I think it 's nicer ... '' Anne recover herself and her eye shone and her cheek flush ... `` to look at it through poetry . ''
Marilla glance at the radiant young face and refrain from further sarcastic comment .
Perhaps some realization come to her that after all it be well to have , like Anne , `` the vision and the faculty divine '' ... that gift which the world can not bestow or take away , of look at life through some transfiguring ... or reveal ?
... medium , whereby everything seem apparelled in celestial light , wear a glory and a freshness not visible to those who , like herself and Charlotta the Fourth , look at thing only through prose .
`` When 's the wedding to be ? ''
she ask after a pause .
`` The last Wednesday in August .
They be to be marry in the garden under the honeysuckle trellis ... the very spot where Mr. Irving propose to her twenty-five year ago .
Marilla , that IS romantic , even in prose .
There 's to be nobody there except Mrs. Irving and Paul and Gilbert and Diana and I , and Miss Lavendar 's cousin .
And they will leave on the six o'clock train for a trip to the Pacific coast .
When they come back in the fall Paul and Charlotta the Fourth be to go up to Boston to live with them .
But Echo Lodge be to be leave just a it be ... only of course they 'll sell the hen and cow , and board up the window ... and every summer they 're come down to live in it .
I 'm so glad .
It would have hurt me dreadfully next winter at Redmond to think of that dear stone house all strip and desert , with empty room ... or far bad still , with other people live in it .
But I can think of it now , just a I 've always see it , wait happily for the summer to bring life and laughter back to it again . ''
There be more romance in the world than that which have fall to the share of the middle-aged lover of the stone house .
Anne stumble suddenly on it one evening when she go over to Orchard Slope by the wood cut and come out into the Barry garden .
Diana Barry and Fred Wright be stand together under the big willow .
Diana be lean against the gray trunk , her lash cast down on very crimson cheek .
One hand be hold by Fred , who stand with his face bent toward her , stammer something in low earnest tone .
There be no other people in the world except their two self at that magic moment ; so neither of them saw Anne , who , after one dazed glance of comprehension , turn and speed noiselessly back through the spruce wood , never stop till she gain her own gable room , where she sit breathlessly down by her window and try to collect her scattered wit .
`` Diana and Fred be in love with each other , '' she gasp .
`` Oh , it do seem so ... so ... so HOPELESSLY grow up . ''
Anne , of late , have not be without her suspicion that Diana be prove false to the melancholy Byronic hero of her early dream .
But a `` thing see be mightier than thing hear , '' or suspect , the realization that it be actually so come to her with almost the shock of perfect surprise .
This be succeed by a queer , little lonely feel ... a if , somehow , Diana have go forward into a new world , shut a gate behind her , leave Anne on the outside .
`` Things be change so fast it almost frighten me , '' Anne think , a little sadly .
`` And I 'm afraid that this ca n't help make some difference between Diana and me .
I 'm sure I ca n't tell her all my secret after this ... she might tell Fred .
And what CAN she see in Fred ?
He 's very nice and jolly ... but he 's just Fred Wright . ''
It be always a very puzzling question ... what can somebody see in somebody else ?
But how fortunate after all that it be so , for if everybody saw alike ... well , in that case , a the old Indian say , `` Everybody would want my squaw . ''
It be plain that Diana DID see something in Fred Wright , however Anne 's eye might be holden .
Diana come to Green Gables the next evening , a pensive , shy young lady , and tell Anne the whole story in the dusky seclusion of the east gable .
Both girl cry and kiss and laugh .
`` I 'm so happy , '' say Diana , `` but it do seem ridiculous to think of me be engage . ''
`` What be it really like to be engage ? ''
ask Anne curiously .
`` Well , that all depends on who you 're engage to , '' answer Diana , with that madden air of superior wisdom always assume by those who be engage over those who be not .
`` It 's perfectly lovely to be engage to Fred ... but I think it would be simply horrid to be engage to anyone else . ''
`` There 's not much comfort for the rest of u in that , see that there be only one Fred , '' laugh Anne .
`` Oh , Anne , you do n't understand , '' say Diana in vexation .
`` I do n't mean THAT ... it 's so hard to explain .
Never mind , you 'll understand sometime , when your own turn come . ''
`` Bless you , dear of Dianas , I understand now .
What be an imagination for if not to enable you to peep at life through other people 's eye ? ''
`` You must be my bridesmaid , you know , Anne .
Promise me that ... wherever you may be when I 'm married . ''
`` I 'll come from the end of the earth if necessary , '' promise Anne solemnly .
`` Of course , it wo n't be for ever so long yet , '' say Diana , blushing .
`` Three year at the very least ... for I 'm only eighteen and mother say no daughter of hers shall be marry before she 's twenty-one .
Besides , Fred 's father be go to buy the Abraham Fletcher farm for him and he say he 's get to have it two third pay for before he 'll give it to him in his own name .
But three year be n't any too much time to get ready for housekeeping , for I have n't a speck of fancy work make yet .
But I 'm go to begin crochet doily tomorrow .
Myra Gillis have thirty-seven doily when she be married and I 'm determined I shall have as many a she have . ''
`` I suppose it would be perfectly impossible to keep house with only thirty-six doily , '' concede Anne , with a solemn face but dance eye .
Diana look hurt .
`` I do n't think you 'd make fun of me , Anne , '' she say reproachfully .
`` Dearest , I be n't make fun of you , '' cry Anne repentantly .
`` I be only tease you a bit .
I think you 'll make the sweet little housekeeper in the world .
And I think it 's perfectly lovely of you to be plan already for your home o'dreams . ''
Anne have no sooner utter the phrase , `` home o'dreams , '' than it captivate her fancy and she immediately begin the erection of one of her own .
It be , of course , tenant by an ideal master , dark , proud , and melancholy ; but oddly enough , Gilbert Blythe persist in hang about too , help her arrange picture , lay out garden , and accomplish sundry other task which a proud and melancholy hero evidently consider beneath his dignity .
Anne try to banish Gilbert 's image from her castle in Spain but , somehow , he go on be there , so Anne , be in a hurry , give up the attempt and pursue her aerial architecture with such success that her `` home o'dreams '' be build and furnish before Diana speak again .
`` I suppose , Anne , you must think it 's funny I should like Fred so well when he 's so different from the kind of man I 've always say I would marry ... the tall , slender kind ?
But somehow I would n't want Fred to be tall and slender ... because , do n't you see , he would n't be Fred then .
Of course , '' add Diana rather dolefully , `` we will be a dreadfully pudgy couple .
But after all that 's good than one of u be short and fat and the other tall and lean , like Morgan Sloane and his wife .
Mrs. Lynde say it always make her think of the long and short of it when she see them together . ''
`` Well , '' say Anne to herself that night , a she brush her hair before her gilt frame mirror , `` I be glad Diana be so happy and satisfied .
But when my turn come ... if it ever do ... I do hope there 'll be something a little more thrill about it .
But then Diana think so too , once .
I 've hear her say time and again she 'd never get engage any poky commonplace way ... he 'd HAVE to do something splendid to win her .
But she have change .
Perhaps I 'll change too .
But I wo n't ... and I 'm determined I wo n't .
Oh , I think these engagement be dreadfully unsettling thing when they happen to your intimate friend . ''
XXX A Wedding at the Stone House The last week in August come .
Miss Lavendar be to be marry in it .
Two week later Anne and Gilbert would leave for Redmond College .
In a week 's time Mrs. Rachel Lynde would move to Green Gables and set up her lares and penates in the erstwhile spare room , which be already prepared for her coming .
She have sell all her superfluous household plenishings by auction and be at present revel in the congenial occupation of help the Allans pack up .
Mr. Allan be to preach his farewell sermon the next Sunday .
The old order be change rapidly to give place to the new , a Anne felt with a little sadness thread all her excitement and happiness .
`` Changes ai n't totally pleasant but they 're excellent thing , '' say Mr. Harrison philosophically .
`` Two year be about long enough for thing to stay exactly the same .
If they stay put any long they might grow mossy . ''
Mr. Harrison be smoke on his veranda .
His wife have self-sacrificingly tell that he might smoke in the house if he take care to sit by an open window .
Mr. Harrison reward this concession by go outdoors altogether to smoke in fine weather , and so mutual goodwill reign .
Anne have come over to ask Mrs. Harrison for some of her yellow dahlia .
She and Diana be go through to Echo Lodge that even to help Miss Lavendar and Charlotta the Fourth with their final preparation for the morrow 's bridal .
Miss Lavendar herself never have dahlia ; she do not like them and they would not have suit the fine retirement of her old-fashioned garden .
But flower of any kind be rather scarce in Avonlea and the neighboring district that summer , thanks to Uncle Abe 's storm ; and Anne and Diana think that a certain old cream-colored stone jug , usually keep sacred to doughnuts , brim over with yellow dahlia , would be just the thing to set in a dim angle of the stone house stair , against the dark background of red hall paper .
`` I s ` pose you 'll be start off for college in a fortnight 's time ? ''
continued Mr. Harrison .
`` Well , we 're go to miss you an awful lot , Emily and me .
To be sure , Mrs. Lynde 'll be over there in your place .
There ai n't nobody but a substitute can be find for them . ''
The irony of Mr. Harrison 's tone be quite untransferable to paper .
In spite of his wife 's intimacy with Mrs. Lynde , the best that could be say of the relationship between her and Mr. Harrison even under the new regime , be that they preserve an arm neutrality .
`` Yes , I 'm go , '' say Anne .
`` I 'm very glad with my head ... and very sorry with my heart . ''
`` I s ` pose you 'll be scoop up all the honor that be lie round loose at Redmond . ''
`` I may try for one or two of them , '' confess Anne , `` but I do n't care so much for thing like that a I do two year ago .
What I want to get out of my college course be some knowledge of the best way of live life and do the most and best with it .
I want to learn to understand and help other people and myself . ''
Mr. Harrison nod .
`` That 's the idea exactly .
That 's what college ought to be for , instead of for turn out a lot of B.A . 's , so chock full of book-learning and vanity that there ai n't room for anything else .
You 're all right .
College wo n't be able to do you much harm , I reckon . ''
Diana and Anne drive over to Echo Lodge after tea , take with them all the flowery spoil that several predatory expedition in their own and their neighbor ' garden have yield .
They find the stone house agog with excitement .
Charlotta the Fourth be fly around with such vim and briskness that her blue bow seem really to possess the power of be everywhere at once .
Like the helmet of Navarre , Charlotta 's blue bow wave ever in the thickest of the fray .
`` Praise be to goodness you 've come , '' she say devoutly , `` for there 's heap of thing to do ... and the frosting on that cake WO N'T harden ... and there 's all the silver to be rub up yet ... and the horsehair trunk to be pack ... and the rooster for the chicken salad be run out there beyant the henhouse yet , crow , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
And Miss Lavendar ai n't to be trust to do a thing .
I be thankful when Mr. Irving come a few minute ago and take her off for a walk in the wood .
Courting 's all right in it place , Miss Shirley , ma'am , but if you try to mix it up with cooking and scour everything 's spoil .
That 's MY opinion , Miss Shirley , ma'am . ''
Anne and Diana work so heartily that by ten o'clock even Charlotta the Fourth be satisfy .
She braid her hair in innumerable plait and take her weary little bone off to bed .
`` But I 'm sure I sha n't sleep a blessed wink , Miss Shirley , ma'am , for fear that something 'll go wrong at the last minute ... the cream wo n't whip ... or Mr. Irving 'll have a stroke and not be able to come . ''
`` He be n't in the habit of have stroke , be he ? ''
ask Diana , the dimpled corner of her mouth twitching .
To Diana , Charlotta the Fourth be , if not exactly a thing of beauty , certainly a joy forever .
`` They 're not thing that go by habit , '' say Charlotta the Fourth with dignity .
`` They just HAPPEN ... and there you be .
ANYBODY can have a stroke .
You do n't have to learn how .
Mr. Irving look a lot like an uncle of mine that have one once just a he be sit down to dinner one day .
But maybe everything 'll go all right .
In this world you 've just get to hope for the best and prepare for the bad and take whatever God send . ''
`` The only thing I 'm worried about be that it wo n't be fine tomorrow , '' say Diana .
`` Uncle Abe predict rain for the middle of the week , and ever since the big storm I ca n't help believe there 's a good deal in what Uncle Abe say . ''
Anne , who know good than Diana just how much Uncle Abe have to do with the storm , be not much disturb by this .
She sleep the sleep of the just and weary , and be rouse at an unearthly hour by Charlotta the Fourth .
`` Oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , it 's awful to call you so early , '' come wail through the keyhole , `` but there 's so much to do yet ... and oh , Miss Shirley , ma'am , I 'm skeered it 's go to rain and I wish you 'd get up and tell me you think it ai n't . ''
Anne fly to the window , hop against hope that Charlotta the Fourth be say this merely by way of rouse her effectually .
But ala , the morning do look unpropitious .
Below the window Miss Lavendar 's garden , which should have be a glory of pale virgin sunshine , lay dim and windless ; and the sky over the fir be dark with moody cloud .
`` Is n't it too mean ! ''
say Diana .
`` We must hope for the best , '' say Anne determinedly .
`` If it only do n't actually rain , a cool , pearly gray day like this would really be nice than hot sunshine . ''
`` But it will rain , '' mourn Charlotta , creep into the room , a figure of fun , with her many braid wind about her head , the end , tie up with white thread , stick out in all direction .
`` It 'll hold off till the last minute and then pour cat and dog .
And all the folk will get sopping ... and track mud all over the house ... and they wo n't be able to be marry under the honeysuckle ... and it 's awful unlucky for no sun to shine on a bride , say what you will , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
I know thing be go too well to last . ''
Charlotta the Fourth seem certainly to have borrow a leaf out of Miss Eliza Andrews ' book .
It do not rain , though it keep on look a if it mean to .
By noon the room be decorate , the table beautifully lay ; and upstairs be wait a bride , `` adorn for her husband . ''
`` You do look sweet , '' say Anne rapturously .
`` Lovely , '' echo Diana .
`` Everything 's ready , Miss Shirley , ma'am , and nothing dreadful have happen YET , '' be Charlotta 's cheerful statement a she betook herself to her little back room to dress .
Out come all the braid ; the resultant rampant crinkliness be plait into two tail and tie , not with two bow alone , but with four , of brand-new ribbon , brightly blue .
The two upper bow rather give the impression of overgrown wing sprout from Charlotta 's neck , somewhat after the fashion of Raphael 's cherub .
But Charlotta the Fourth think them very beautiful , and after she have rustle into a white dress , so stiffly starch that it could stand alone , she survey herself in her glass with great satisfaction ... a satisfaction which last until she go out in the hall and catch a glimpse through the spare room door of a tall girl in some softly cling gown , pin white , star-like flower on the smooth ripple of her ruddy hair .
`` Oh , I 'll NEVER be able to look like Miss Shirley , '' think poor Charlotta despairingly .
`` You just have to be bear so , I guess ... do n't seem 's if any amount of practice could give you that AIR . ''
By one o'clock the guest have come , include Mr. and Mrs. Allan , for Mr. Allan be to perform the ceremony in the absence of the Grafton minister on his vacation .
There be no formality about the marriage .
Miss Lavendar come down the stair to meet her bridegroom at the foot , and a he take her hand she lift her big brown eye to his with a look that make Charlotta the Fourth , who intercept it , feel queer than ever .
They go out to the honeysuckle arbor , where Mr. Allan be await them .
The guest group themselves a they please .
Anne and Diana stand by the old stone bench , with Charlotta the Fourth between them , desperately clutch their hand in her cold , tremulous little paw .
Mr. Allan open his blue book and the ceremony proceed .
Just a Miss Lavendar and Stephen Irving be pronounce man and wife a very beautiful and symbolic thing happen .
The sun suddenly burst through the gray and pour a flood of radiance on the happy bride .
Instantly the garden be alive with dance shadow and flicker light .
`` What a lovely omen , '' think Anne , a she run to kiss the bride .
Then the three girl leave the rest of the guest laugh around the bridal pair while they fly into the house to see that all be in readiness for the feast .
`` Thanks be to goodness , it 's over , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' breathe Charlotta the Fourth , `` and they 're married safe and sound , no matter what happen now .
The bag of rice be in the pantry , ma'am , and the old shoe be behind the door , and the cream for whip be on the sullar step . ''
At half past two Mr. and Mrs. Irving leave , and everybody go to Bright River to see them off on the afternoon train .
As Miss Lavendar ... I beg her pardon , Mrs. Irving ... step from the door of her old home Gilbert and the girl throw the rice and Charlotta the Fourth hurl an old shoe with such excellent aim that she strike Mr. Allan squarely on the head .
But it be reserve for Paul to give the pretty send-off .
He pop out of the porch ring furiously a huge old brass dinner bell which have adorn the dining room mantel .
Paul 's only motive be to make a joyful noise ; but a the clangor die away , from point and curve and hill across the river come the chime of `` fairy wedding bell , '' ring clearly , sweetly , faintly and more faint , a if Miss Lavendar 's beloved echo be bid her greeting and farewell .
And so , amid this benediction of sweet sound , Miss Lavendar drive away from the old life of dream and make-believe to a full life of reality in the busy world beyond .
Two hour later Anne and Charlotta the Fourth come down the lane again .
Gilbert have go to West Grafton on an errand and Diana have to keep an engagement at home .
Anne and Charlotta have come back to put thing in order and lock up the little stone house .
The garden be a pool of late golden sunshine , with butterfly hover and bee boom ; but the little house have already that indefinable air of desolation which always follow a festivity .
`` Oh dear me , do n't it look lonesome ? ''
sniffed Charlotta the Fourth , who have be cry all the way home from the station .
`` A wedding ai n't much cheerfuller than a funeral after all , when it 's all over , Miss Shirley , ma'am . ''
A busy evening follow .
The decoration have to be remove , the dish wash , the uneaten delicacy pack into a basket for the delectation of Charlotta the Fourth 's young brother at home .
Anne would not rest until everything be in apple-pie order ; after Charlotta have go home with her plunder Anne go over the still room , feel like one who tread alone some banquet hall desert , and close the blind .
Then she lock the door and sit down under the silver poplar to wait for Gilbert , feel very tired but still unweariedly think `` long , long thought . ''
`` What be you think of , Anne ? ''
ask Gilbert , come down the walk .
He have leave his horse and buggy out at the road .
`` Of Miss Lavendar and Mr. Irving , '' answer Anne dreamily .
`` Is n't it beautiful to think how everything have turn out ... how they have come together again after all the year of separation and misunderstanding ? ''
`` Yes , it 's beautiful , '' say Gilbert , look steadily down into Anne 's uplifted face , `` but would n't it have be more beautiful still , Anne , if there have be NO separation or misunderstanding ... if they have come hand in hand all the way through life , with no memory behind them but those which belong to each other ? ''
For a moment Anne 's heart flutter queerly and for the first time her eye falter under Gilbert 's gaze and a rosy flush stain the paleness of her face .
It be a if a veil that have hung before her inner consciousness have be lift , give to her view a revelation of unsuspected feeling and reality .
Perhaps , after all , romance do not come into one 's life with pomp and blare , like a gay knight rid down ; perhaps it creep to one 's side like an old friend through quiet way ; perhaps it reveal itself in seem prose , until some sudden shaft of illumination flung athwart it page betray the rhythm and the music , perhaps ... perhaps ... love unfold naturally out of a beautiful friendship , a a golden-hearted rise slip from it green sheath .
Then the veil drop again ; but the Anne who walk up the dark lane be not quite the same Anne who have drive gaily down it the evening before .
The page of girlhood have be turn , a by an unseen finger , and the page of womanhood be before her with all it charm and mystery , it pain and gladness .
Gilbert wisely say nothing more ; but in his silence he read the history of the next four year in the light of Anne 's remembered blush .
Four year of earnest , happy work ... and then the guerdon of a useful knowledge gain and a sweet heart win .
Behind them in the garden the little stone house brood among the shadow .
It be lonely but not forsake .
It have not yet do with dream and laughter and the joy of life ; there be to be future summer for the little stone house ; meanwhile , it could wait .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Anne_Of_Green_Gables.txt.out
CHAPTER I. Mrs. Rachel Lynde be Surprised Mrs. Rachel Lynde live just where the Avonlea main road dip down into a little hollow , fringe with alder and lady ' eardrop and traverse by a brook that have it source away back in the wood of the old Cuthbert place ; it be repute to be an intricate , headlong brook in it early course through those wood , with dark secret of pool and cascade ; but by the time it reach Lynde 's Hollow it be a quiet , well-conducted little stream , for not even a brook could run past Mrs. Rachel Lynde 's door without due regard for decency and decorum ; it probably be conscious that Mrs. Rachel be sit at her window , keep a sharp eye on everything that pass , from brook and child up , and that if she notice anything odd or out of place she would never rest until she have ferret out the why and wherefores thereof .
There be plenty of people in Avonlea and out of it , who can attend closely to their neighbor 's business by dint of neglect their own ; but Mrs. Rachel Lynde be one of those capable creature who can manage their own concern and those of other folk into the bargain .
She be a notable housewife ; her work be always do and well do ; she `` run '' the Sewing Circle , help run the Sunday-school , and be the strong prop of the Church Aid Society and Foreign Missions Auxiliary .
Yet with all this Mrs. Rachel find abundant time to sit for hour at her kitchen window , knit `` cotton warp '' quilt -- she have knit sixteen of them , a Avonlea housekeeper be wont to tell in awed voice -- and keep a sharp eye on the main road that cross the hollow and wind up the steep red hill beyond .
Since Avonlea occupy a little triangular peninsula jut out into the Gulf of St. Lawrence with water on two side of it , anybody who go out of it or into it have to pass over that hill road and so run the unseen gauntlet of Mrs. Rachel 's all-seeing eye .
She be sit there one afternoon in early June .
The sun be come in at the window warm and bright ; the orchard on the slope below the house be in a bridal flush of pinky-white bloom , hum over by a myriad of bee .
Thomas Lynde -- a meek little man whom Avonlea people call `` Rachel Lynde 's husband '' -- be sow his late turnip seed on the hill field beyond the barn ; and Matthew Cuthbert ought to have be sow his on the big red brook field away over by Green Gables .
Mrs. Rachel know that he ought because she have hear him tell Peter Morrison the evening before in William J. Blair 's store over at Carmody that he mean to sow his turnip seed the next afternoon .
Peter have ask him , of course , for Matthew Cuthbert have never be know to volunteer information about anything in his whole life .
And yet here be Matthew Cuthbert , at half-past three on the afternoon of a busy day , placidly drive over the hollow and up the hill ; moreover , he wear a white collar and his best suit of clothes , which be plain proof that he be go out of Avonlea ; and he have the buggy and the sorrel mare , which betoken that he be go a considerable distance .
Now , where be Matthew Cuthbert go and why be he go there ?
Had it be any other man in Avonlea , Mrs. Rachel , deftly put this and that together , might have give a pretty good guess a to both question .
But Matthew so rarely go from home that it must be something press and unusual which be take him ; he be the shy man alive and hat to have to go among stranger or to any place where he might have to talk .
Matthew , dress up with a white collar and driving in a buggy , be something that do n't happen often .
Mrs. Rachel , ponder a she might , could make nothing of it and her afternoon 's enjoyment be spoil .
`` I 'll just step over to Green Gables after tea and find out from Marilla where he 's go and why , '' the worthy woman finally conclude .
`` He do n't generally go to town this time of year and he NEVER visit ; if he 'd run out of turnip seed he would n't dress up and take the buggy to go for more ; he be n't drive fast enough to be go for a doctor .
Yet something must have happen since last night to start him off .
I 'm clean puzzle , that 's what , and I wo n't know a minute 's peace of mind or conscience until I know what have take Matthew Cuthbert out of Avonlea today . ''
Accordingly after tea Mrs. Rachel set out ; she have not far to go ; the big , ramble , orchard-embowered house where the Cuthberts live be a scant quarter of a mile up the road from Lynde 's Hollow .
To be sure , the long lane make it a good deal far .
Matthew Cuthbert 's father , a shy and silent a his son after him , have get a far away a he possibly could from his fellow men without actually retreat into the wood when he found his homestead .
