All that they could see be a vast plain , that look a if it have be there since the beginning of the world .
And from that time the people of the country begin to die like ordinary mortal all the world over .
-LRB- 13 -RRB- -LRB- 13 -RRB- Roumanian Tales from the German of Mite Thremnitz .
THE SIX SILLIES ONCE upon a time there be a young girl who reach the age of thirty-seven without ever have have a lover , for she be so foolish that no one want to marry her .
One day , however , a young man arrive to pay his address to her , and her mother , beam with joy , send her daughter down to the cellar to draw a jug of beer .
As the girl never come back the mother go down to see what have become of her , and find her sit on the stair , her head in her hand , while by her side the beer be run all over the floor , a she have forget to close the tap .
` What be you do there ? '
ask the mother . '
I be think what I shall call my first child after I be marry to that young man .
All the name in the calendar be take already . '
The mother sit down on the staircase beside her daughter and say , ' I will think about it with you , my dear . '
The father who have stay upstairs with the young man be surprised that neither his wife nor his daughter come back , and in his turn go down to look for them .
He find them both sit on the stair , while beside them the beer be run all over the ground from the tap , which be wide open .
` What be you do there ?
The beer be run all over the cellar . '
` We be think what we should call the child that our daughter will have when she marry that young man .
All the name in the calendar be take already . '
` Well , ' say the father , ' I will think about it with you . '
As neither mother nor daughter nor father come upstairs again , the lover grow impatient , and go down into the cellar to see what they could all be do .
He find them all three sit on the stair , while beside them the beer be run all over the ground from the tap , which be wide open .
` What in the world be you all do that you do n't come upstairs , and that you let the beer run all over the cellar ? '
` Yes , I know , my boy , ' say the father , ` but if you marry our daughter what shall you call your child ?
All the name in the calendar be take . '
When the young man hear this answer he reply : ` Well !
good-bye , I be go away .
When I shall have find three people silly than you I will come back and marry your daughter . '
So he continue his journey , and after walk a long way he reach an orchard .
Then he saw some people knock down walnut , and try to throw them into a cart with a fork .
` What be you do there ? '
he ask .
` We want to load the cart with our walnut , but we ca n't manage to do it . '
The lover advise them to get a basket and to put the walnut in it , so a to turn them into the cart .
` Well , ' he say to himself , ' I have already find someone more foolish than those three . '
So he go on his way , and by-and-by he come to a wood .
There he saw a man who want to give his pig some acorn to eat , and be try with all his might to make him climb up the oak-tree .
` What be you do , my good man ? '
ask he . '
I want to make my pig eat some acorn , and I ca n't get him to go up the tree . '
` If you be to climb up and shake down the acorn the pig would pick them up . '
` Oh , I never think of that . '
` Here be the second idiot , ' say the lover to himself .
Some way far along the road he come upon a man who have never wear any trouser , and who be try to put on a pair .
So he have fasten them to a tree and be jump with all his might up in the air so that he should hit the two leg of the trouser a he come down .
` It would be much good if you hold them in your hand , ' say the young man , ` and then put your leg one after the other in each hole . '
` Dear me to be sure !
You be sharp than I be , for that never occur to me . '
And have find three people more foolish than his bride , or her father or her mother , the lover go back to marry the young lady .
And in course of time they have a great many child .
Story from Hainaut .
-LRB- M. Lemoine .
La Tradition .
No , 34 , -RRB- KARI WOODENGOWN THERE be once upon a time a King who have become a widower .
His Queen have leave one daughter behind her , and she be so wise and so pretty that it be impossible for any one to be wise or pretty .
For a long time the King go sorrow for his wife , for he have love her exceedingly ; but at last he grow tire of live alone , and marry a Queen who be a widow , and she also have a daughter , who be just a ill-favoured and wicked a the other be good and beautiful .
The stepmother and her daughter be envious of the King 's daughter because she be so pretty , but so long a the King be at home they dare do her no harm , because his love for her be so great .
Then there come a time when he make war on another King and go away to fight , and then the new Queen thought that she could do what she like ; so she both hunger and beat the King 's daughter and chase her about into every corner .
At last she think that everything be too good for her , and set her to work to look after the cattle .
So she go about with the cattle , and herd them in the wood and in the field .
Of food she get little or none , and grow pale and thin , and be nearly always weep and sad .
Among the herd there be a great blue bull , which always keep itself very smart and sleek , and often come to the King 's daughter and let her stroke him .
So one day , when she be again sit cry and sorrow , the Bull come up to her and ask why she be always so full of care ?
She make no answer , but continue to weep .
` Well , ' say the Bull , ' I know what it be , though you will not tell me ; you be weep because the Queen be unkind to you , and because she want to starve you to death .
But you need be under no concern about food , for in my left ear there lie a cloth , and if you will but take it and spread it out , you can have as many dish a you like . '
So she do this , and take the cloth and spread it out upon the grass , and then it be cover with the daintiest dish that any one could desire , and there be wine , and mead , and cake .
And now she become brisk and well again , and grow so rosy , and plump , and fair that the Queen and her scraggy daughter turn blue and white with vexation at it .
The Queen could not imagine how her step-daughter could look so well on such bad food , so she order one of her handmaiden to follow her into the wood and watch her , and see how it be , for she think that some of the servant must be give her food .
So the maid follow her into the wood and watch , and saw how the step-daughter take the cloth out of the Blue Bull 's ear , and spread it out , and how the cloth be then cover with the most delicate dish , which the step-daughter ate and regale herself with .
So the waiting-maid go home and tell the Queen .
And now the King come home , and he have conquer the other King with whom he have be at war .
So there be great gladness in the palace , but no one be more glad than the King 's daughter .
The Queen , however , pretend to be ill , and give the doctor much money to say that she would never be well again unless she have some of the flesh of the Blue Bull to eat .
Both the King 's daughter and the people in the palace ask the doctor if there be no other mean of save her , and beg for the Bull 's life , for they be all fond of him , and they all declare that there be no such Bull in the whole country ; but it be all in vain , he be to be kill , and should be kill , and nothing else would serve .
When the King 's daughter hear it she be full of sorrow , and go down to the byre to the Bull .
He too be stand there hang his head , and look so downcast that she fell a-weeping over him .
` What be you weep for ? '
say the Bull .
So she tell him that the King have come home again , and that the Queen have pretend to be ill , and that she have make the doctor say that she could never be well again unless some of the flesh of the Blue Bull be give her to eat , and that now he be to be kill .
` When once they have take my life they will soon kill you also , ' say the Bull .
` If you be of the same mind with me , we will take our departure this very night . '
The King 's daughter think that it be bad to go and leave her father , but that it be bad still to be in the same house with the Queen , so she promise the Bull that she would come .
At night , when all the others have go to bed , the King 's daughter stole softly down to the byre to the Bull , and he take her on his back and get out of the courtyard as quickly a he could .
So at cock-crow next morning , when the people come to kill the Bull , he be go , and when the King get up and ask for his daughter she be go too .
He send forth messenger to all part of the kingdom to search for them , and publish his loss in all the parish church , but there be no one who have see anything of them .
In the meantime the Bull travel through many land with the King 's daughter on his back , and one day they come to a great copper-wood , where the tree , and the branch , and the leaf , and the flower , and everything else be of copper .
But before they enter the wood the Bull say to the King 's daughter : ` When we enter into this wood , you must take the great care not to touch a leaf of it , or all will be over both with me and with you , for a Troll with three head , who be the owner of the wood , live here . '
So she say she would be on her guard , and not touch anything .
And she be very careful , and bend herself out of the way of the branch , and put them aside with her hand ; but it be so thickly wooded that it be all but impossible to get forward , and do what she might , she somehow or other tore off a leaf which get into her hand .
` Oh !
oh !
What have you do now ? '
say the Bull .
` It will now cost u a battle for life or death ; but do be careful to keep the leaf . '
Very soon afterwards they come to the end of the wood , and the Troll with three head come rush up to them .
` Who be that who be touch my wood ? '
say the Troll .
` The wood be just as much mine a yours ! '
say the Bull .
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
shriek the Troll .
` That may be , ' say the Bull .
So they rush on each other and fought , and a for the Bull he butt and kick with all the strength of his body , but the Troll fight quite as well a he do , and the whole day go by before the Bull put an end to him , and then he himself be so full of wound and so worn out that he be scarcely able to move .
So they have to wait a day , and the Bull tell the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment which hung at the Troll 's belt , and rub him with it ; then he be himself again , and the next day they set off once more .
And now they journey on for many , many day , and then after a long , long time they come to a silver wood .
The tree , and the bough , and the leaf , and the flower , and everything else be of silver .
Before the Bull go into the wood , he say to the King 's daughter : ` When we enter into this wood you must , for Heaven 's sake , be very careful not to touch anything at all , and not to pluck off even so much a one leaf , or else all will be over both with you and with me .
A Troll with six head live here , who be the owner of the wood , and I do not think I should be able to overcome him . '
` Yes , ' say the King 's daughter , ' I will take good care not to touch what you do not wish me to touch . '
But when they get into the wood it be so crowded , and the tree so close together , that they could scarcely get forward .
She be as careful a she could be , and bent aside to get out of the way of the branch , and thrust them away from before her with her hand ; but every instant a branch struck against her eye , and in spite of all her care , she happen to pull off one leaf .
` Oh !
oh !
What have you do now ? '
say the Bull .
It will now cost u a battle for life or death , for this Troll have six head and be twice as strong a the other , but do be careful to keep the leaf . '
Just a he say this come the Troll .
` Who be that who be touch my wood ? '
he say .
` It be just as much mine a yours ! '
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
scream the Troll .
` That may be , ' say the Bull , and rush at the Troll , and gore out his eye , and drive his horn right through him so that his entrails gush out , but the Troll fought just as well a he do , and it be three whole day before the Bull get the life out of him .
But the Bull be then so weak and wear out that it be only with pain and effort that he could move , and so covered with wound that the blood stream from him .
So he tell the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment that be hang at the Troll 's belt , and anoint him with it .
She do this , and then he come to himself again , but they have to stay there and rest for a week before the Bull be able to go any farther .
At last they set forth on their way again , but the Bull be still weak , and at first could not go quickly .
The King 's daughter wish to spare him , and say that she be so young and light of foot that she would willingly walk , but he would not give her leave to do that , and she be force to seat herself on his back again .
So they travel for a long time , and through many land , and the King 's daughter do not at all know where he be take her , but after a long , long time they come to a gold wood .
It be so golden that the gold drip off it , and the tree , and the branch , and the flower , and the leaf be all of pure gold .
Here all happen just a it have happen in the copper wood and silver wood .
The Bull tell the King 's daughter that on no account be she to touch it , for there be a Troll with nine head who be the owner , and that he be much large and strong than both the others put together , and that he do not believe that he could overcome him .
So she say that she would take great care not to touch anything , and he should see that she do .
But when they get into the wood it be still thick than the silver wood , and the farther they get into it the bad it grow .
The wood become thicker and thicker , and close and closer , and at last she think there be no way whatsoever by which they could get forward ; she be so terrified l she should break anything off , that she sit and twisted , and turn herself on this side and on that , to get out of the way of the branch , and push them away from her with her hand , but every moment they strike against her eye , so that she could not see what she be clutch at , and before she know what she be do she have a golden apple in her hand .
She be now in such terror that she begin to cry , and want to throw it away , but the Bull say that she be to keep it , and take the great care of it , and comfort her as well a he could , but he believe that it would be a hard struggle , and he doubt whether it would go well with him .
Just then the Troll with nine head come , and he be so frightful that the King 's daughter scarcely dare to look at him ` Who be this who be break my wood ? '
he scream ` It be as much mine a yours ! '
say the Bull .
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
scream the Troll .
` That may be , ' say the Bull ; so they rush at each other , and fought , and it be such a dreadful sight that the King 's daughter very nearly swoon .
The Bull gore the Troll 's eye out and run his horn right through him , but the Troll fought as well a he do , and when the Bull have gore one head to death the other head breathe life into it again , so it be a whole week before the Bull be able to kill him .
But then he himself be so worn out and weak that he could not move at all .
His body be all one wound , and he could not even so much a tell the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment out of the Troll 's belt and rub him with it .
She do this without be tell ; so he come to himself again , but he have to lie there for three week and rest before he be in a state to move .
Then they journey onwards by degree , for the Bull say that they have still a little farther to go , and in this way they cross many high hill and thick wood .
This last for a while , and then they come upon the fell .
` Do you see anything ? '
ask the Bull .
` No , I see nothing but the sky above and the wild fell side , ' say the King 's daughter .
Then they climb up high , and the fell grow more level , so that they could see farther around them .
` Do you see anything now ? '
say the Bull .
` Yes , I see a small castle , far , far away , ' say the Princess .
` It be not so very little after all , ' say the Bull .
After a long , long time they come to a high hill , where there be a precipitous wall of rock .
` Do you see nothing now ? '
say the Bull .
` Yes , now I see the castle quite near , and now it be much , much large , ' say the King 's daughter .
` Thither shall you go , ' say the Bull ; ` immediately below the castle there be a pig-sty , where you shall dwell .
When you get there , you will find a wooden gown which you be to put on , and then go to the castle and say that you be call Kari Woodengown , and that you be seek a place .
But now you must take out your little knife and cut off my head with it , and then you must flay me and roll up my hide and put it there under the rock , and beneath the hide you must lay the copper leaf , and the silver leaf , and the golden apple .
Close beside the rock a stick be stand , and when you want me for anything you have only to knock at the wall of rock with that . '
At first she would not do it , but when the Bull say that this be the only reward that he would have for what he have do for her , she could do no otherwise .
So though she think it very cruel , she slave on and cut at the great animal with the knife till she have cut off his head and hide , and then she fold up the hide and lay it beneath the mountain wall , and put the copper leaf , and the silver leaf , and the golden apple inside it .
When she have do that she go away to the pig-sty , but all the way a she go she weep , and be very sorrowful .
Then she put on the wooden gown , and walk to the King 's palace .
When she get there she go into the kitchen and beg for a place , say that her name be Kari Woodengown .
The cook tell her that she might have a place and leave to stay there at once and wash up , for the girl who have do that before have just go away .
` And as soon a you get tire of be here you will take yourself off too , ' say he .
` No , ' say she , ` that I shall certainly not . '
And then she wash up , and do it very tidily .
On Sunday some stranger be come to the King 's palace , so Kari beg to have leave to carry up the water for the Prince 's bath , but the others laugh at her and say , ` What do you want there ?
Do you think the Prince will ever look at such a fright a you ? '
She would not give it up , however , but go on beg until at last she get leave .
When she be go upstairs her wooden gown make such a clatter that the Prince come out and say , ` What sort of a creature may you be ? ' '
I be to take this water to you , ' say Kari .
` Do you suppose that I will have any water that you bring ? '
say the Prince , and empty it over her .
She have to bear that , but then she ask permission to go to church .
She get that , for the church be very near .
But first she go to the rock and knock at it with the stick which be stand there , a the Bull have tell her to do .
Instantly a man come forth and ask what she want .
The King 's daughter say that she have got leave to go to church and listen to the priest , but that she have no clothes to go in .
So he bring her a gown that be as bright a the copper wood , and she get a horse and saddle too from him .
When she reach the church she be so pretty and so splendidly dress that every one wonder who she could be , and hardly anyone listen to what the priest be say , for they be all look far too much at her , and the Prince himself like her so well that he could not take his eye off her for an instant .
As she be walk out of church the Prince follow her and shut the church door after her , and thus he keep one of her glove in his hand .
Then she go away and mount her horse again ; the Prince again follow her , and ask her whence she come .
` Oh !
I be from Bathland , ' say Kari .
And when the Prince take out the glove and want to give it back to her , she say : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm go to-day ! '
The Prince have never see the equal of that glove , and he go far and wide , ask after the country which the proud lady , who ride away without her glove , have say that she come from , but there be no one who could tell him where it lay .
Next Sunday some one have to take up a towel to the Prince .
` Ah !
may I have leave to go up with that ? '
say Kari .
` What would be the use of that ? '
say the others who be in the kitchen ; ` you saw what happen last time . '
Kari would not give in , but go on beg for leave till she get it , and then she run up the stair so that her wooden gown clatter again .
Out come the Prince , and when he saw that it be Kari , he snatch the towel from her and fling it right in her eye .
` Be off at once , you ugly Troll , ' say he ; ` do you think that I will have a towel that have be touch by your dirty finger ? '
After that the Prince go to church , and Kari also ask leave to go .
They all ask how she could want to go to church when she have nothing to wear but that wooden gown , which be so black and hideous .
But Kari say she think the priest be such a good man at preach that she get so much benefit from what he say , and at last she get leave .
She go to the rock and knock , whereupon out come the man and give her a gown which be much more magnificent than the first .
It be embroider with silver all over it , and it shine like the silver wood , and he give her also a most beautiful horse , with housing embroider with silver , and a bridle of silver too .
When the King 's daughter get to church all the people be stand outside upon the hillside , and all of them wonder who on earth she could be , and the Prince be on the alert in a moment , and come and want to hold her horse while she alight .
But she jump off and say that there be no need for that , for the horse be so well break in that it stand still when she bid it and come when she call it .
So they all go into the church together , but there be scarcely any one who listen to what the priest be say , for they be all look far too much at her , and the Prince fell much more deeply in love with her than he have be before .
When the sermon be over and she go out of the church , and be just go to mount her horse , the Prince again come and ask her where she come from . '
I be from Towelland , ' say the King 's daughter , and a she speak she drop her riding-whip , and while the Prince be stoop to pick it up she say : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm go to-day ! '
And she be go again , neither could the Prince see what have become of her .
He go far and wide to inquire for that country from whence she have say that she come , but there be no one who could tell him where it lay , so he be force to have patience once more .
Next Sunday some one have to go to the Prince with a comb .
Kari beg for leave to go with it , but the others remind her of what have happen last time , and scold her for want to let the Prince see her when she be so black and so ugly in her wooden gown , but she would not give up ask until they give her leave to go up to the Prince with the comb .
When she go clatter up the stair again , out come the Prince and take the comb and flung it at her , and order her to be off as fast a she could .
After that the Prince go to church , and Kari also beg for leave to go .
Again they all ask what she would do there , she who be so black and ugly , and have no clothes that she could be see in by other people .
The Prince or some one else might very easily catch sight of her , they say , and then both she and they would suffer for it ; but Kari say that they have something else to do than to look at her , and she never cease beg until she get leave to go .
And now all happen just a it have happen twice already .
She go away to the rock and knock at it with the stick , and then the man come out and give her a gown which be very much more magnificent than either of the others .
It be almost entirely make of pure gold and diamond , and she also get a noble horse with housing embroider with gold , and a golden bridle .
When the King 's daughter come to the church the priest and people be all stand on the hillside wait for her , and the Prince run up and want to hold the horse , but she jump off , say : ` No , thank you , there be no need ; my horse be so well break in that it will stand still when I bid it . '
So they all hasten into the church together and the priest get into the pulpit , but no one listen to what he say , for they be look far too much at her and wonder whence she come ; and the Prince be far more in love than he have be on either of the former occasion , and he be mindful of nothing but of look at her .
When the sermon be over and the King 's daughter be about to leave the church , the Prince have cause a firkin of tar to be empty out in the porch in order that he might go to help her over it ; she , however , do not trouble herself in the least about the tar , but set her foot down in the middle of it and jump over it , and thus one of her gold shoe be leave sticking in it .
When she have seat herself on the horse the Prince come run out of the church and ask her whence she come .
` From Combland , ' say Kari .
But when the Prince want to reach her her gold shoe , she say : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm go to-day ! '
The Prince do not know what have become of her , so he travel for a long and wearisome time all over the world , ask where Combland be ; but when no one could tell him where that country be , he cause it to be make know everywhere that he would marry any woman who could put on the gold shoe .
So fair maiden and ugly maiden come thither from all region , but there be none who have a foot so small that she could put on the gold shoe .
After a long , long while come Kari Woodengown 's wicked stepmother , with her daughter too , and the shoe fit her .
But she be so ugly and look so loathsome that the Prince be very unwilling to do what he have promise .
Nevertheless all be get ready for the wedding , and she be deck out a a bride , but a they be rid to church a little bird sit upon a tree and sang : ' A slice off her heel And a slice off her toe , Kari Woodengown 's shoe Fills with blood a she go ! '
And when they look to it the bird have speak the truth , for blood be trickle out of the shoe .
So all the waiting-maids , and all the womenkind in the castle have to come and try on the shoe , but there be not one whom it would fit .
` But where be Kari Woodengown , then ? '
ask the Prince , when all the others have try on the shoe , for he understand the song of bird and it come to his mind what the bird have say .
` Oh !
that creature ! '
say the others ; ` it 's not the least use for her to come here , for she have foot like a horse ! '
` That may be , ' say the Prince , ` but a all the others have try it , Kari may try it too . '
` Kari ! '
he call out through the door , and Kari come upstairs , and her wooden gown clatter a if a whole regiment of dragoon be come up .
` Now , you be to try on the gold shoe and be a Princess , ' say the other servant , and they laugh at her and mock her .
Kari take up the shoe , put her foot into it as easily a possible , and then throw off her wooden gown , and there she stand in the golden gown which flash like ray of sunshine , and on her other foot she have the fellow to the gold shoe .
The Prince know her in a moment , and be so glad that he run and take her in his arm and kiss her , and when he hear that she be a King 's daughter he be gladder still , and then they have the wedding .
-LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
DRAKESTAIL DRAKESTAIL be very little , that be why he be call Drakestail ; but tiny a he be he have brain , and he know what he be about , for have begin with nothing he end by amass a hundred crown .
Now the King of the country , who be very extravagant and never keep any money , have hear that Drakestail have some , go one day in his own person to borrow his hoard , and , my word , in those day Drakestail be not a little proud of have lent money to the King .
But after the first and second year , see that they never even dream of pay the interest , he become uneasy , so much so that at last he resolve to go and see His Majesty himself , and get repay .
So one fine morning Drakestail , very spruce and fresh , take the road , singing : ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
He have not go far when he meet friend Fox , on his round that way .
` Good-morning , neighbour , ' say the friend , ` where be you off to so early ? ' '
I be go to the King for what he owe me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail say to himself : ` One ca n't have too many friend . '
... ' I will , ' say he , ` but go on all-fours you will soon be tire .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Happy thought ! '
say friend Fox .
He take bag and baggage , and , presto !
be go like a letter into the post .
And Drakestail be off again , all spruce and fresh , still sing : ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I have my money back ? '
He have not go far when he meet his lady-friend Ladder , lean on her wall .
` Good morning , my duckling , ' say the lady friend , ` whither away so bold ? ' '
I be go to the King for what he owe me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail say to himself : ` One ca n't have too many friend . '
... ' I will , ' say he , ` but with your wooden leg you will soon be tire .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Happy thought ! '
say my friend Ladder , and nimble , bag and baggage , go to keep company with friend Fox .
And ` Quack , quack , quack . '
Drakestail be off again , sing and spruce a before .
A little farther he meet his sweetheart , my friend River , wander quietly in the sunshine .
` Thou , my cherub , ' say she , ` whither so lonesome , with arch tail , on this muddy road ? ' '
I be go to the King , you know , for what he owe me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail say to himself : ` We ca n't be too many friend . '
... ' I will , ' say he , ` but you who sleep while you walk will soon be tire .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Ah !
happy thought ! '
say my friend River .
She take bag and baggage , and glou , glou , glou , she take her place between friend Fox and my friend Ladder .
And ` Quack , quack , quack . '
Drakestail be off again sing .
A little farther on he meet comrade Wasp 's - nest , manoeuvre his wasp .
` Well , good-morning , friend Drakestail , ' say comrade Wasp 's - nest , ` where be we bind for so spruce and fresh ? ' '
I be go to the King for what he owe me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail say to himself , ` One ca n't have too many friend . '
... ' I will , ' say he , ` but with your battalion to drag along , you will soon be tire .
Make yourself quite small , go into my throat -- get into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` By Jove I that 's a good idea ! '
say comrade Wasp 's - nest .
And leave file !
he take the same road to join the others with all his party .
There be not much more room , but by close up a bit they manage ... And Drakestail be off again sing .
He arrive thus at the capital , and thread his way straight up the High Street , still run and sing ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
to the great astonishment of the good folk , till he come to the King 's palace .
He strike with the knocker : ` Toc !
toc ! '
` Who be there ? '
ask the porter , put his head out of the wicket . ''
Tis I , Drakestail .
I wish to speak to the King . '
` Speak to the King !
... That 's easily say .
The King be din , and will not be disturb . '
` Tell him that it be I , and I have come he well know why . '
The porter shut his wicket and go up to say it to the King , who be just sit down to dinner with a napkin round his neck , and all his minister .
` Good , good ! '
say the King laughing . '
I know what it be !
Make him come in , and put him with the turkey and chicken . '
The porter descend .
` Have the goodness to enter . '
` Good ! '
say Drakestail to himself , ' I shall now see how they eat at court . '
` This way , this way , ' say the porter .
` One step far ... There , there you be . '
` How ?
what ?
in the poultry yard ? '
Fancy how vexed Drakestail be !
` Ah !
so that 's it , ' say he .
` Wait !
I will compel you to receive me .
Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
But turkey and chicken be creature who do n't like people that be not a themselves .
When they saw the new-comer and how he be make , and when they hear him cry too , they begin to look black at him .
` What be it ?
what do he want ? '
Finally they rush at him all together , to overwhelm him with peck . '
I be lost ! '
say Drakestail to himself , when by good luck he remember his comrade friend Fox , and he cry : ` Reynard , Reynard , come out of your earth , Or Drakestail 's life be of little worth . '
Then friend Fox , who be only wait for these word , hasten out , throw himself on the wicked fowl , and quick !
quack !
he tear them to piece ; so much so that at the end of five minute there be not one leave alive .
And Drakestail , quite content , begin to sing again , ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
When the King who be still at table heard this refrain , and the poultry woman come to tell him what have be go on in the yard , he be terribly annoy .
He order them to throw this tail of a drake into the well , to make an end of him .
And it be do a he command .
Drakestail be in despair of get himself out of such a deep hole , when he remember his lady friend , the Ladder .
` Ladder , Ladder , come out of thy hold , Or Drakestail 's day will soon be tell . '
My friend Ladder , who be only wait for these word , hasten out , lean her two arm on the edge of the well , then Drakestail climb nimbly on her back , and hop !
he be in the yard , where he begin to sing louder than ever .
When the King , who be still at table and laugh at the good trick he have play his creditor , hear him again reclaim his money , he become livid with rage .
He command that the furnace should be heat , and this tail of a drake throw into it , because he must be a sorcerer .
The furnace be soon hot , but this time Drakestail be not so afraid ; he count on his sweetheart , my friend River .
` River , River , outward flow , Or to death Drakestail must go . '
My friend River hasten out , and errouf !
throw herself into the furnace , which she flood , with all the people who have light it ; after which she flow growl into the hall of the palace to the height of more than four foot .
And Drakestail , quite content , begin to swim , sing deafeningly , ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
The King be still at table , and think himself quite sure of his game ; but when he hear Drakestail singing again , and when they tell him all that have pass , he become furious and get up from table brandish his fist .
` Bring him here , and I 'll cut his throat !
bring him here quick ! '
cry he .
And quickly two footman run to fetch Drakestail .
` At last , ' say the poor chap , go up the great stair , ` they have decide to receive me . '
Imagine his terror when on enter he see the King as red a a turkey cock , and all his minister attend him stand sword in hand .
He think this time it be all up with him .
Happily , he remember that there be still one remain friend , and he cry with die accent : ` Wasp 's - nest , Wasp 's - nest , make a sally , Or Drakestail nevermore may rally . '
Hereupon the scene change .
` Bs , b , bayonet them !
` The brave Wasp 's - nest rush out with all his wasp .
They throw themselves on the infuriated King and his minister , and sting them so fiercely in the face that they lose their head , and not know where to hide themselves they all jump pell-mell from the window and break their neck on the pavement .
Behold Drakestail much astonish , all alone in the big saloon and master of the field .
He could not get over it .
Nevertheless , he remember shortly what he have come for to the palace , and improve the occasion , he set to work to hunt for his dear money .
But in vain he rummage in all the drawer ; he find nothing ; all have be spend .
And ferret thus from room to room he come at last to the one with the throne in it , and feel fatigue , he sit himself down on it to think over his adventure .
In the meanwhile the people have find their King and his minister with their foot in the air on the pavement , and they have go into the palace to know how it have occur .
On enter the throne-room , when the crowd saw that there be already someone on the royal seat , they break out in cry of surprise and joy : ` The King be dead , long live the King !
Heaven have send u down this thing . '
Drakestail , who be no longer surprise at anything , receive the acclamation of the people a if he have never do anything else all his life .
A few of them certainly murmur that a Drakestail would make a fine King ; those who know him reply that a know Drakestail be a more worthy King than a spendthrift like him who be lie on the pavement .
In short , they run and take the crown off the head of the decease , and place it on that of Drakestail , whom it fit like wax .
Thus he become King .
` And now , ' say he after the ceremony , ` lady and gentleman , let 's go to supper .
I be so hungry ! '
-LRB- 15 -RRB- -LRB- 15 -RRB- Contes of Ch .
Marelles .
THE RATCATCHER A VERY long time ago the town of Hamel in Germany be invade by band of rat , the like of which have never be see before nor will ever be again .
They be great black creature that run boldly in broad daylight through the street , and swarm so , all over the house , that people at last could not put their hand or foot down anywhere without touch one .
When dress in the morning they find them in their breech and petticoat , in their pocket and in their boot ; and when they want a morsel to eat , the voracious horde have sweep away everything from cellar to garret .
The night be even bad .
As soon a the light be out , these untiring nibbler set to work .
And everywhere , in the ceiling , in the floor , in the cupboard , at the door , there be a chase and a rummage , and so furious a noise of gimlet , pincer , and saw , that a deaf man could not have rest for one hour together .
Neither cat nor dog , nor poison nor trap , nor prayer nor candle burn to all the saint -- nothing would do anything .
The more they kill the more come .
And the inhabitant of Hamel begin to go to the dog -LRB- not that THEY be of much use -RRB- , when one Friday there arrive in the town a man with a queer face , who play the bagpipe and sing this refrain : ` Qui vivra verra : Le voila , Le preneur de rat . '
He be a great gawky fellow , dry and bronze , with a crooked nose , a long rat-tail moustache , two great yellow piercing and mock eye , under a large felt hat set off by a scarlet cock 's feather .
He be dress in a green jacket with a leather belt and red breech , and on his foot be sandal fasten by thong pass round his leg in the gipsy fashion .
That be how he may be see to this day , paint on a window of the cathedral of Hamel .
He stop on the great market-place before the town hall , turn his back on the church and go on with his music , singing : ` Who live shall see : This be he , The ratcatcher . '
The town council have just assemble to consider once more this plague of Egypt , from which no one could save the town .
The stranger send word to the counsellor that , if they would make it worth his while , he would rid them of all their rat before night , down to the very last .
` Then he be a sorcerer ! '
cry the citizen with one voice ; ` we must beware of him . '
The Town Counsellor , who be consider clever , reassure them .
He say : ` Sorcerer or no , if this bagpiper speak the truth , it be he who send u this horrible vermin that he want to rid u of to-day for money .
Well , we must learn to catch the devil in his own snare .
You leave it to me . '
` Leave it to the Town Counsellor , ' say the citizen one to another .
And the stranger be bring before them .
` Before night , ' say he , ' I shall have despatch all the rat in Hamel if you will but pay me a gros a head . ' '
A gros a head ! '
cry the citizen , ` but that will come to million of florin ! '
The Town Counsellor simply shrug his shoulder and say to the stranger : ' A bargain !
To work ; the rat will be pay one gros a head a you ask . '
The bagpiper announce that he would operate that very even when the moon rise .
He add that the inhabitant should at that hour leave the street free , and content themselves with look out of their window at what be pass , and that it would be a pleasant spectacle .
When the people of Hamel heard of the bargain , they too exclaim : ' A gros a head !
but this will cost u a deal of money ! '
` Leave it to the Town Counsellor , ' say the town council with a malicious air .
And the good people of Hamel repeat with their counsellor , ` Leave it to the Town Counsellor . '
Towards nine at night the bagpiper re-appeared on the market place .
He turn , a at first , his back to the church , and the moment the moon rise on the horizon , ` Trarira , trari ! '
the bagpipe resound .
It be first a slow , caress sound , then more and more lively and urgent , and so sonorous and pierce that it penetrate as far a the farthest alley and retreat of the town .
Soon from the bottom of the cellar , the top of the garret , from under all the furniture , from all the nook and corner of the house , out come the rat , search for the door , fling themselves into the street , and trip , trip , trip , begin to run in file towards the front of the town hall , so squeezed together that they cover the pavement like the wave of flooded torrent .
When the square be quite full the bagpiper face about , and , still play briskly , turn towards the river that run at the foot of the wall of Hamel .
Arrived there he turn round ; the rat be follow .
` Hop !
hop ! '
he cry , point with his finger to the middle of the stream , where the water whirl and be draw down a if through a funnel .
And hop !
hop !
without hesitate , the rat take the leap , swam straight to the funnel , plunge in head foremost and disappear .
The plunge continued thus without cease till midnight .
At last , drag himself with difficulty , come a big rat , white with age , and stop on the bank .
It be the king of the band .
` Are they all there , friend Blanchet ? '
ask the bagpiper .
` They be all there , ' reply friend Blanchet .
` And how many be they ? '
` Nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety-nine . '
` Well reckon ? '
` Well reckon . '
` Then go and join them , old sire , and au revoir . '
Then the old white rat sprang in his turn into the river , swam to the whirlpool and disappear .
When the bagpiper have thus conclude his business he go to bed at his inn .
And for the first time during three month the people of Hamel sleep quietly through the night .
The next morning , at nine o'clock , the bagpiper repair to the town hall , where the town council await him .
` All your rat take a jump into the river yesterday , ' say he to the counsellor , ` and I guarantee that not one of them come back .
They be nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety-nine , at one gros a head .
Reckon ! '
` Let u reckon the head first .
One gros a head be one head the gros .
Where be the head ? '
The ratcatcher do not expect this treacherous stroke .
He pal with anger and his eye flash fire .
` The head ! '
cry he , ` if you care about them , go and find them in the river . '
` So , ' reply the Town Counsellor , ` you refuse to hold to the term of your agreement ?
We ourselves could refuse you all payment .
But you have be of use to u , and we will not let you go without a recompense , ' and he offer him fifty crown .
` Keep your recompense for yourself , ' reply the ratcatcher proudly .
` If you do not pay me I will be pay by your heir . '
Thereupon he pull his hat down over his eye , go hastily out of the hall , and leave the town without speak to a soul .
When the Hamel people hear how the affair have end they rub their hand , and with no more scruple than their Town Counsellor , they laugh over the ratcatcher , who , they say , be catch in his own trap .
But what make them laugh above all be his threat of get himself pay by their heir .
Ha !
they wish that they only have such creditor for the rest of their life .
Next day , which be a Sunday , they all go gaily to church , think that after Mass they would at last be able to eat some good thing that the rat have not taste before them .
They never suspect the terrible surprise that await them on their return home .
No child anywhere , they have all disappear !
` Our child !
where be our poor child ? '
be the cry that be soon hear in all the street .
Then through the east door of the town come three little boy , who cry and weep , and this be what they tell : While the parent be at church a wonderful music have resound .
Soon all the little boy and all the little girl that have be leave at home have go out , attract by the magic sound , and have rush to the great market-place .
There they find the ratcatcher play his bagpipe at the same spot a the evening before .
Then the stranger have begin to walk quickly , and they have follow , run , sing and dance to the sound of the music , as far a the foot of the mountain which one see on enter Hamel .
At their approach the mountain have open a little , and the bagpiper have go in with them , after which it have close again .
Only the three little one who tell the adventure have remain outside , a if by a miracle .
One be bandy-legged and could not run fast enough ; the other , who have leave the house in haste , one foot shoe the other bare , have hurt himself against a big stone and could not walk without difficulty ; the third have arrive in time , but in harry to go in with the others have strike so violently against the wall of the mountain that he fell backwards at the moment it close upon his comrade .
At this story the parent redouble their lamentation .
They run with pike and mattock to the mountain , and search till even to find the opening by which their child have disappear , without be able to find it .
At last , the night fall , they return desolate to Hamel .
But the most unhappy of all be the Town Counsellor , for he lose three little boy and two pretty little girl , and to crown all , the people of Hamel overwhelm him with reproach , forget that the evening before they have all agree with him .
What have become of all these unfortunate child ?
The parent always hop they be not dead , and that the rat-catcher , who certainly must have come out of the mountain , would have take them with him to his country .
That be why for several year they send in search of them to different country , but no one ever come on the trace of the poor little one .
It be not till much later that anything be to be hear of them .
About one hundred and fifty year after the event , when there be no long one left of the father , mother , brother or sister of that day , there arrive one evening in Hamel some merchant of Bremen return from the East , who ask to speak with the citizen .
They tell that they , in cross Hungary , have sojourn in a mountainous country call Transylvania , where the inhabitant only speak German , while all around them nothing be speak but Hungarian .
These people also declare that they come from Germany , but they do not know how they chance to be in this strange country .
` Now , ' say the merchant of Bremen , ` these Germans can not be other than the descendant of the lost child of Hamel . '
The people of Hamel do not doubt it ; and since that day they regard it a certain that the Transylvanians of Hungary be their country folk , whose ancestor , a child , be bring there by the ratcatcher .
There be more difficult thing to believe than that .
-LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- 16 -RRB- Ch .
Marelles .
THE TRUE HISTORY OF LITTLE GOLDEN HOOD YOU know the tale of poor Little Red Riding-hood , that the Wolf deceive and devour , with her cake , her little butter can , and her Grandmother ; well , the true story happen quite differently , a we know now .
And first of all the little girl be call and be still call Little Golden-hood ; secondly , it be not she , nor the good grand-dame , but the wicked Wolf who be , in the end , caught and devour .
Only listen .
The story begin something like the tale .
There be once a little peasant girl , pretty and nice a a star in it season .
Her real name be Blanchette , but she be more often call Little Golden-hood , on account of a wonderful little cloak with a hood , gold - and fire-coloured , which she always have on .
This little hood be give her by her Grandmother , who be so old that she do not know her age ; it ought to bring her good luck , for it be make of a ray of sunshine , she say .
And a the good old woman be consider something of a witch , everyone think the little hood rather bewitch too .
And so it be , a you will see .
One day the mother say to the child : ` Let u see , my little Golden-hood , if you know now how to find your way by yourself .
You shall take this good piece of cake to your Grandmother for a Sunday treat to-morrow .
You will ask her how she be , and come back at once , without stop to chatter on the way with people you do n't know .
Do you quite understand ? ' '
I quite understand , ' reply Blanchette gaily .
And off she go with the cake , quite proud of her errand .
But the Grandmother live in another village , and there be a big wood to cross before get there .
At a turn of the road under the tree , suddenly ` Who go there ? '
` Friend Wolf . '
He have see the child start alone , and the villain be wait to devour her ; when at the same moment he perceive some wood-cutters who might observe him , and he change his mind .
Instead of fall upon Blanchette he come frisk up to her like a good dog . ''
Tis you !
my nice Little Golden-hood , ' say he .
So the little girl stop to talk with the Wolf , who , for all that , she do not know in the least .
` You know me , then ! '
say she ; ` what be your name ? '
` My name be friend Wolf .
And where be you go thus , my pretty one , with your little basket on your arm ? ' '
I be go to my Grandmother , to take her a good piece of cake for her Sunday treat to-morrow . '
` And where do she live , your Grandmother ? '
` She live at the other side of the wood , in the first house in the village , near the windmill , you know . '
` Ah !
yes !
I know now , ' say the Wolf .
` Well , that 's just where I 'm go ; I shall get there before you , no doubt , with your little bit of leg , and I 'll tell her you 're come to see her ; then she 'll wait for you . '
Thereupon the Wolf cut across the wood , and in five minute arrive at the Grandmother 's house .
He knock at the door : toc , toc .
No answer .
He knock louder .
Nobody .
Then he stand up on end , put his two fore-paws on the latch and the door open .
Not a soul in the house .
The old woman have rise early to sell herb in the town , and she have go off in such haste that she have leave her bed unmade , with her great night-cap on the pillow .
` Good ! '
say the Wolf to himself , ' I know what I 'll do . '
He shut the door , pull on the Grandmother 's night-cap down to his eye , then he lie down all his length in the bed and draw the curtain .
In the meantime the good Blanchette go quietly on her way , a little girl do , amuse herself here and there by pick Easter daisy , watch the little bird make their nest , and run after the butterfly which flutter in the sunshine .
At last she arrive at the door .
Knock , knock .
` Who be there ? '
say the Wolf , soften his rough voice a best he can .
` It 's me , Granny , your little Golden-hood .
I 'm bring you a big piece of cake for your Sunday treat to-morrow . '
` Press your finger on the latch , then push and the door open . '
` Why , you 've get a cold , Granny , ' say she , come in .
` Ahem !
a little , a little ... ' reply the Wolf , pretend to cough .
` Shut the door well , my little lamb .
Put your basket on the table , and then take off your frock and come and lie down by me : you shall rest a little . '
The good child undress , but observe this !
She keep her little hood upon her head .
When she saw what a figure her Granny cut in bed , the poor little thing be much surprise .
` Oh ! '
cry she , ` how like you be to friend Wolf , Grandmother ! '
` That 's on account of my night-cap , child , ' reply the Wolf .
` Oh !
what hairy arm you 've get , Grandmother ! '
` All the good to hug you , my child . '
` Oh !
what a big tongue you 've get , Grandmother ! '
` All the good for answering , child . '
` Oh !
what a mouthful of great white teeth you have , Grandmother ! '
` That 's for crunch little child with !
` And the Wolf open his jaw wide to swallow Blanchette .
But she put down her head cry : ` Mamma !
Mamma ! '
and the Wolf only catch her little hood .
Thereupon , oh dear !
oh dear !
he draw back , cry and shake his jaw a if he have swallow red-hot coal .
It be the little fire-coloured hood that have burn his tongue right down his throat .
The little hood , you see , be one of those magic cap that they use to have in former time , in the story , for make oneself invisible or invulnerable .
So there be the Wolf with his throat burnt , jump off the bed and try to find the door , howl and howl a if all the dog in the country be at his heel .
Just at this moment the Grandmother arrives , return from the town with her long sack empty on her shoulder .
` Ah , brigand ! '
she cry , ` wait a bit ! '
Quickly she open her sack wide across the door , and the maddened Wolf spring in head downwards .
It be he now that be catch , swallow like a letter in the post .
For the brave old dame shut her sack , so ; and she run and empty it in the well , where the vagabond , still howl , tumble in and be drown .
` Ah , scoundrel !
you think you would crunch my little grandchild !
Well , to-morrow we will make her a muff of your skin , and you yourself shall be crunch , for we will give your carcass to the dog . '
Thereupon the Grandmother hasten to dress poor Blanchette , who be still tremble with fear in the bed .
` Well , ' she say to her , ` without my little hood where would you be now , darling ? '
And , to restore heart and leg to the child , she make her eat a good piece of her cake , and drink a good draught of wine , after which she take her by the hand and lead her back to the house .
And then , who be it who scold her when she know all that have happen ?
It be the mother .
But Blanchette promise over and over again that she would never more stop to listen to a Wolf , so that at last the mother forgive her .
And Blanchette , the Little Golden-hood , keep her word .
And in fine weather she may still be see in the field with her pretty little hood , the colour of the sun .
But to see her you must rise early .
-LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- Ch .
Marelles THE GOLDEN BRANCH ONCE upon a time there be a King who be so morose and disagreeable that he be fear by all his subject , and with good reason , a for the most trifling offence he would have their head cut off .
This King Grumpy , a he be call , have one son , who be a different from his father a he could possibly be .
No prince equal him in cleverness and kindness of heart , but unfortunately he be most terribly ugly .
He have crook leg and squint eye , a large mouth all on one side , and a hunchback .
Never be there a beautiful soul in such a frightful little body , but in spite of his appearance everybody love him .
The Queen , his mother , call him Curlicue , because it be a name she rather like , and it seem to suit him .
King Grumpy , who care a great deal more for his own grandeur than for his son 's happiness , wish to betroth the Prince to the daughter of a neighbouring King , whose great estate join his own , for he think that this alliance would make him more powerful than ever , and a for the Princess she would do very well for Prince Curlicue , for she be as ugly a himself .
Indeed , though she be the most amiable creature in the world , there be no conceal the fact that she be frightful , and so lame that she always go about with a crutch , and people call her Princess Cabbage-Stalk .
The King , have ask for and receive a portrait of this Princess , have it place in his great hall under a canopy , and send for Prince Curlicue , to whom he say that a this be the portrait of his future bride , he hop the Prince find it charm .
The Prince after one glance at it turn away with a disdainful air , which greatly offend his father .
` Am I to understand that you be not please ? '
he say very sharply .
` No , sire , ' reply the Prince .
` How could I be please to marry an ugly , lame Princess ? '
` Certainly it be become in YOU to object to that , ' say King Grumpy , ` since you be ugly enough to frighten anyone yourself . '
` That be the very reason , ' say the Prince , ` that I wish to marry someone who be not ugly .
I be quite tired enough of see myself . ' '
I tell you that you shall marry her , ' cry King Grumpy angrily .
And the Prince , see that it be of no use to remonstrate , bow and retire .
As King Grumpy be not use to be contradict in anything , he be very much displease with his son , and order that he should be imprison in the tower that be keep on purpose for rebellious Princes , but have not be use for about two hundred year , because there have not be any .
The Prince think all the room look strangely old-fashioned , with their antique furniture , but a there be a good library he be pleased , for he be very fond of reading , and he soon get permission to have as many book a he like .
But when he look at them he find that they be write in a forgotten language , and he could not understand a single word , though he amuse himself with try .
King Grumpy be so convinced that Prince Curlicue would soon get tire of be in prison , and so consent to marry the Princess Cabbage-Stalk , that he send ambassador to her father proposing that she should come and be marry to his son , who would make her perfectly happy .
The King be delight to receive so good an offer for his unlucky daughter , though , to tell the truth , he find it impossible to admire the Prince 's portrait which have be send to him .
However , he have it place in a favourable a light a possible , and send for the Princess , but the moment she catch sight of it she look the other way and begin to cry .
The King , who be very much annoyed to see how greatly she dislike it , take a mirror , and hold it up before the unhappy Princess , say : ' I see you do not think the Prince handsome , but look at yourself , and see if you have any right to complain about that . '
` Sire , ' she answer , ' I do not wish to complain , only I beg of you do not make me marry at all .
I have rather be the unhappy Princess Cabbage-Stalk all my life than inflict the sight of my ugliness on anyone else . '
But the King would not listen to her , and send her away with the ambassador .
In the meantime the Prince be keep safely lock up in his tower , and , that he might be as dull a possible , King Grumpy order that no one should speak to him , and that they should give him next to nothing to eat .
But all the Princess guard be so fond of him that they do everything they dare , in spite of the King , to make the time pas pleasantly .
One day , a the Prince be walk up and down the great gallery , think how miserable it be to be so ugly , and to be force to marry an equally frightful Princess , he look up suddenly and notice that the painted window be particularly bright and beautiful , and for the sake of do something that would change his sad thought he begin to examine them attentively .
He find that the picture seem to be scene from the life of a man who appear in every window , and the Prince , fancy that he saw in this man some resemblance to himself , begin to be deeply interested .
In the first window there be a picture of him in one of the turret of the tower , far on he be seek something in a chink in the wall , in the next picture he be open an old cabinet with a golden key , and so it go on through number of scene , and presently the Prince notice that another figure occupy the most important place in each scene , and this time it be a tall handsome young man : poor Prince Curlicue find it a pleasure to look at him , he be so straight and strong .
By this time it have grow dark , and the Prince have to go back to his own room , and to amuse himself he take up a quaint old book and begin to look at the picture .
But his surprise be great to find that they represent the same scene a the window of the gallery , and what be more , that they seem to be alive .
In look at picture of musician he saw their hand move and hear sweet sound ; there be a picture of a ball , and the Prince could watch the little dancing people come and go .
He turn a page , and there be an excellent smell of a savoury dinner , and one of the figure who sit at the feast look at him and say : ` We drink your health , Curlicue .
Try to give u our Queen again , for if you do you will be reward ; if not , it will be the bad for you . '
At these word the Prince , who have be grow more and more astonished , be fairly terrify , and drop the book with a crash he sink back insensible .
The noise he make bring his guard to his aid , and as soon a he revive they ask him what be the matter .
He answer that he be so faint and giddy with hunger that he have imagine he saw and hear all sort of strange thing .
Thereupon , in spite of the King 's order , the guard give him an excellent supper , and when he have eat it he again open his book , but could see none of the wonderful picture , which convince him that he must have be dream before .
However , when he go into he gallery next day and look at the painted window again , he find that they move , and the figure come and go a if they have be alive , and after watch the one who be like himself find the key in the crack of the turret wall and open the old cabinet , he determine to go and examine the place himself , and try to find out what the mystery be .
So he go up into the turret and begin to search about and tap upon the wall , and all at once he come upon a place that sound hollow .
Taking a hammer he break away a bit of the stone , and find behind it a little golden key .
The next thing to do be to find the cabinet , and the Prince soon come to it , hide away in a dark corner , though indeed it be so old and battered-looking that he would never have notice it of his own accord .
At first he could not see any keyhole , but after a careful search he find one hidden in the carving , and the golden key just fit it ; so the Prince give it a vigorous turn and the door fly open .
Ugly and old a the cabinet be outside , nothing could have be more rich and beautiful than what meet the Prince 's astonished eye .
Every drawer be make of crystal , of amber , or of some precious stone , and be quite full of every kind of treasure .
Prince Curlicue be delight ; he open one after another , until at last he come to one tiny drawer which contain only an emerald key . '
I believe that this must open that little golden door in the middle , ' say the Prince to himself .
And he fit in the little key and turn it .
The tiny door swung back , and a soft crimson light gleam over the whole cabinet .
The Prince find that it proceed from an immense glowing carbuncle , make into a box , which lay before him .
He lose no time in open it , but what be his horror when he find that it contain a man 's hand , which be hold a portrait .
His first thought be to put back the terrible box and fly from the turret ; but a voice in his ear say , ` This hand belong to one whom you can help and restore .
Look at this beautiful portrait , the original of which be the cause of all my misfortune , and if you wish to help me , go without a moment 's delay to the great gallery , notice where the sun 's ray fall most brightly , and if you seek there you will find my treasure . '
The voice cease , and though the Prince in his bewilderment ask various question , he receive no answer .
So he put back the box and lock the cabinet up again , and , have replace the key in the crack in the wall , hasten down to the gallery .
When he enter it all the window shook and clatter in the strange way , but the Prince do not heed them ; he be look so carefully for the place where the sun shone most brightly , and it seem to him that it be upon the portrait of a most splendidly handsome young man .
He go up and examine it , and find that it rest against the ebony and gold panelling , just like any of the other picture in the gallery .
He be puzzle , not know what to do next , until it occur to him to see if the window would help him , and , look at the near , he saw a picture of himself lift the picture from the wall .
The Prince take the hint , and lift aside the picture without difficulty , find himself in a marble hall adorn with statue ; from this he pass on through number of splendid room , until at last he reach one all hung with blue gauze .
The wall be of turquoise , and upon a low couch lay a lovely lady , who seem to be asleep .
Her hair , black a ebony , be spread across the pillow , make her face look ivory white , and the Prince notice that she be unquiet ; and when he softly advance , fear to wake her , he could hear her sigh , and murmur to herself : ` Ah !
how dared you think to win my love by separate me from my beloved Florimond , and in my presence cut off that dear hand that even you should have fear and honour ? '
And then the tear roll slowly down the lovely lady 's cheek , and Prince Curlicue begin to comprehend that she be under an enchantment , and that it be the hand of her lover that he have find .
At this moment a huge Eagle fly into the room , hold in it talon a Golden Branch , upon which be grow what look like cluster of cherry , only every cherry be a single glowing ruby .
This he present to the Prince , who guess by this time that he be in some way to break the enchantment that surround the sleep lady .
Taking the branch he touch her lightly with it , say : ` Fair one , I know not by what enchantment thou art bound , but in the name of thy beloved Florimond I conjure thee to come back to the life which thou hast lost , but not forget . '
Instantly the lady open her lustrous eye , and saw the Eagle hovering near .
` Ah !
stay , dear love , stay , ' she cry .
But the Eagle , utter a dolorous cry , flutter his broad wing and disappear .
Then the lady turn to Prince Curlicue , and say : ' I know that it be to you I owe my deliverance from an enchantment which have hold me for two hundred year .
If there be anything that I can do for you in return , you have only to tell me , and all my fairy power shall be use to make you happy . '
` Madam , ' say Prince Curlicue , ' I wish to be allow to restore your beloved Florimond to his natural form , since I can not forget the tear you shed for him . '
` That be very amiable of you , dear Prince , ' say the Fairy , ` but it be reserve for another person to do that .
I can not explain more at present .
But be there nothing you wish for yourself ? '
` Madam , ' cry the Prince , fling himself down at her foot , ` only look at my ugliness .
I be call Curlicue , and be an object of derision ; I entreat you to make me less ridiculous . '
` Rise , Prince , ' say the Fairy , touch him with the Golden Branch .
` Be as accomplish a you be handsome , and take the name of Prince Peerless , since that be the only title which will suit you now . '
Silent from joy , the Prince kiss her hand to express his thanks , and when he rise and saw his new reflection in the mirror which surround him , he understand that Curlicue be indeed go for ever .
` How I wish , ' say the Fairy , ` that I dare to tell you what be in store for you , and warn you of the trap which lie in your path , but I must not .
Fly from the tower , Prince , and remember that the Fairy Douceline will be your friend always . '
When she have finish speaking , the Prince , to his great astonishment , find himself no longer in the tower , but set down in a thick forest at least a hundred league away from it .
And there we must leave him for the present , and see what be happen elsewhere .
When the guard find that the Prince do not ask for his supper a usual , they go into his room , and not find him there , be very much alarm , and search the tower from turret to dungeon , but without success .
Knowing that the King would certainly have their head cut off for allow the Prince to escape , they then agree to say that he be ill , and after make the small among them look as much like Prince Curlicue a possible , they put him into his bed and send to inform the King .
King Grumpy be quite delighted to hear that his son be ill , for he think that he would all the sooner be bring to do a he wish , and marry the Princess .
So he send back to the guard to say that the Prince be to be treat as severely a before , which be just what they have hop he would say .
In the meantime the Princess Cabbage-Stalk have reach the palace , travel in a litter .
King Grumpy go out to meet her , but when he saw her , with a skin like a tortoise 's , her thick eyebrow meet above her large nose , and her mouth from ear to ear , he could not help cry out : ` Well , I must say Curlicue be ugly enough , but I do n't think YOU need have think twice before consent to marry him . '
` Sire , ' she reply , ' I know too well what I be like to be hurt by what you say , but I assure you that I have no wish to marry your son I have rather be call Princess Cabbage-Stalk than Queen Curlicue . '
This make King Grumpy very angry .
` Your father have send you here to marry my son , ' he say , ` and you may be sure that I be not go to offend him by alter his arrangement . '
So the poor Princess be send away in disgrace to her own apartment , and the lady who attend upon her be charge to bring her to a good mind .
At this juncture the guard , who be in great fear that they would be find out , send to tell the King that his son be dead , which annoy him very much .
He at once make up his mind that it be entirely the Princess 's fault , and give order that she should be imprison in the tower in Prince Curlicue 's place .
The Princess Cabbage-Stalk be immensely astonish at this unjust proceeding , and send many message of remonstrance to King Grumpy , but he be in such a temper that no one dare to deliver them , or to send the letter which the Princess write to her father .
However , a she do not know this , she live in hope of soon go back to her own country , and try to amuse herself as well a she could until the time should come .
Every day she walk up and down the long gallery , until she too be attract and fascinate by the ever-changing picture in the window , and recognise herself in one of the figure .
` They seem to have take a great delight in paint me since I come to this country , ' she say to herself .
` One would think that I and my crutch be put in on purpose to make that slim , charm young shepherdess in the next picture look prettier by contrast .
Ah !
how nice it would be to be as pretty a that . '
And then she look at herself in a mirror , and turn away quickly with tear in her eye from the doleful sight .
All at once she become aware that she be not alone , for behind her stand a tiny old woman in a cap , who be a ugly again a herself and quite a lame .
` Princess , ' she say , ` your regret be so piteous that I have come to offer you the choice of goodness or beauty .
If you wish to be pretty you shall have your way , but you will also be vain , capricious , and frivolous .
If you remain a you be now , you shall be wise and amiable and modest . '
` Alas I madam , ' cry the Princess , ` be it impossible to be at once wise and beautiful ? '
` No , child , ' answer the old woman , ` only to you it be decree that you must choose between the two .
See , I have bring with me my white and yellow muff .
Breathe upon the yellow side and you will become like the pretty shepherdess you so much admire , and you will have win the love of the handsome shepherd whose picture I have already see you study with interest .
Breathe upon the white side and your look will not alter , but you will grow well and happy day by day .
Now you may choose . '
` Ah well , ' say the Princess , ' I suppose one ca n't have everything , and it 's certainly good to be good than pretty . '
And so she breathe upon the white side of the muff and thank the old fairy , who immediately disappear .
The Princess Cabbage-Stalk felt very forlorn when she be go , and begin to think that it be quite time her father send an army to rescue her .
` If I could but get up into the turret , ' she think , ` to see if any one be come . '
But to climb up there seem impossible .
Nevertheless she presently hit upon a plan .
The great clock be in the turret , a she know , though the weight hang down into the gallery .
Taking one of them off the rope , she tie herself on in it place , and when the clock be wound , up she go triumphantly into the turret .
She look out over the country the first thing , but see nothing she sit down to rest a little , and accidentally leant back against the wall which Curlicue , or rather Prince Peerless , have so hastily mend .
Out fell the broken stone , and with it the golden key .
The clatter it make upon the floor attract the Princess Cabbage-Stalk 's attention .
She pick it up , and after a moment 's consideration decide that it must belong to the curious old cabinet in the corner , which have no visible keyhole .
And then it be not long before she have it open , and be admire the treasure it contain as much a Prince Peerless have do before her , and at last she come to the carbuncle box .
No sooner have she open it than with a shudder of horror she try to throw it down , but find that some mysterious power compel her to hold it against her will .
And at this moment a voice in her ear say softly : ` Take courage , Princess ; upon this adventure your future happiness depend . '
` What be I to do ? '
say the Princess trembling .
` Take the box , ' reply the voice , ` and hide it under your pillow , and when you see an Eagle , give it to him without lose a moment . '
Terrified a the Princess be , she do not hesitate to obey , and hasten to put back all the other precious thing precisely a she have find them .
By this time her guard be seek her everywhere , and they be amaze to find her up in the turret , for they say she could only have get there by magic .
For three day nothing happen , but at last in the night the Princess hear something flutter against her window , and draw back her curtain she saw in the moonlight that it be an Eagle .
Limping across at her utmost speed she throw the window open , and the great Eagle sail in beat with his wing for joy .
The Princess lose no time in offer it the carbuncle box , which it grasp in it talon , and instantly disappear , leave in it place the most beautiful Prince she have ever see , who be splendidly dress , and wear a diamond crown .
` Princess , ' say he , ` for two hundred year have a wicked enchanter keep me here .
We both love the same Fairy , but she prefer me .
However , he be more powerful than I , and succeed , when for a moment I be off my guard , in change me into an Eagle , while my Queen be leave in an enchanted sleep .
I know that after two hundred year a Prince would recall her to the light of day , and a Princess , in restore to me the hand which my enemy have cut off , would give me back my natural form .
The Fairy who watch over your destiny tell me this , and it be she who guide you to the cabinet in the turret , where she have place my hand .
It be she also who permit me to show my gratitude to you by grant whatever favour you may ask of me .
Tell me , Princess , what be it that you wish for most ?
Shall I make you as beautiful a you deserve to be ? '
` Ah , if you only would ! '
cry the Princess , and at the same moment she hear a crick-cracking in all her bone .
She grow tall and straight and pretty , with eye like shin star , and a skin as white a milk .
` Oh , wonderful !
can this really be my poor little self ? '
she exclaim , look down in amazement at her tiny worn-out crutch a it lay upon the floor .
` Indeed , Princess , ' reply Florimond , ` it be yourself , but you must have a new name , since the old one do not suit you now .
Be call Princess Sunbeam , for you be bright and charm enough to deserve the name . '
And so say he disappear , and the Princess , without know how she get there , find herself walk under shady tree by a clear river .
Of course , the first thing she do be to look at her own reflection in the water , and she be extremely surprised to find that she be exactly like the shepherdess she have so much admire , and wear the same white dress and flowery wreath that she have see in the painted window .
To complete the resemblance , her flock of sheep appear , graze round her , and she find a gay crook adorn with flower upon the bank of the river .
Quite tire out by so many new and wonderful experience , the Princess sit down to rest at the foot of a tree , and there she fell fast asleep .
Now it happen that it be in this very country that Prince Peerless have be set down , and while the Princess Sunbeam be still sleep peacefully , he come stroll along in search of a shady pasture for his sheep .
The moment he catch sight of the Princess he recognise her a the charm shepherdess whose picture he have see so often in the tower , and a she be far pretty than he have remember her , he be delight that chance have lead him that way .
He be still watch her admiringly when the Princess open her eye , and a she also recognise him they be soon great friend .
The Princess ask Prince Peerless , a he know the country good than she do , to tell her of some peasant who would give her a lodging , and he say he know of an old woman whose cottage would be the very place for her , it be so nice and so pretty .
So they go there together , and the Princess be charm with the old woman and everything belonging to her .
Supper be soon spread for her under a shady tree , and she invite the Prince to share the cream and brown bread which the old woman provide .
This he be delight to do , and have first fetch from his own garden all the strawberry , cherry , nut and flower he could find .
they sit down together and be very merry .
After this they meet every day a they guard their flock , and be so happy that Prince Peerless beg the Princess to marry him , so that they might never be part again .
Now though the Princess Sunbeam appear to be only a poor shepherdess , she never forget that she be a real Princess , and she be not at all sure that she ought to marry a humble shepherd , though she know she would like to do so very much .
So she resolve to consult an Enchanter of whom she have hear a great deal since she have be a shepherdess , and without say a word to anybody she set out to find the castle in which he live with his sister , who be a powerful Fairy .
The way be long , and lay through a thick wood , where the Princess hear strange voice call to her from every side , but she be in such a hurry that she stop for nothing , and at last she come to the courtyard of the Enchanter 's castle .
The grass and brier be grow as high a if it be a hundred year since anyone have set foot there , but the Princess get through at last , though she give herself a good many scratch by the way , and then she go into a dark , gloomy hall , where there be but one tiny hole in the wall through which the daylight could enter .
The hanging be all of bat ' wing , and from the ceiling hung twelve cat , who fill the hall with their ear piercing yell .
Upon the long table twelve mouse be fasten by the tail , and just in front of each one 's nose , but quite beyond it reach , lay a tempting morsel of fat bacon .
So the cat could always see the mouse , but could not touch them , and the hungry mouse be torment by the sight and smell of the delicious morsel which they could never seize .
The Princess be look at the poor creature in dismay , when the Enchanter suddenly enter , wear a long black robe and with a crocodile upon his head .
In his hand he carry a whip make of twenty long snake , all alive and writhing , and the Princess be so terrify at the sight that she heartily wish she have never come .
Without say a word she run to the door , but it be cover with a thick spider 's web , and when she break it she find another , and another , and another .
In fact , there be no end to them ; the Princess 's arm ache with tear them down , and yet she be no nearer to get out , and the wicked Enchanter behind her laughed maliciously .
At last he say : ` You might spend the rest of your life over that without do any good , but a you be young , and quite the pretty creature I have see for a long time , I will marry you if you like , and I will give you those cat and mouse that you see there for your own .
They be prince and princess who have happen to offend me .
They use to love one another as much a they now hate one another .
Aha !
It 's a pretty little revenge to keep them like that . '
` Oh !
If you would only change me into a mouse too , ' cry the Princess .
` Oh !
so you wo n't marry me ? '
say he .
` Little simpleton , you should have everything heart can desire . '
` No , indeed ; nothing should make me marry you ; in fact , I do n't think I shall ever love anyone , ' cry the Princess .
` In that case , ' say the Enchanter , touch her , ` you have good become a particular kind of creature that be neither fish nor fowl ; you shall be light and airy , and as green a the grass you live in .
Off with you , Madam Grasshopper . '
And the Princess , rejoice to find herself free once more , skip out into the garden , the pretty little green Grasshopper in the world .
But as soon a she be safely out she begin to be rather sorry for herself .
` Ah !
Florimond , ' she sigh , ` be this the end of your gift ?
Certainly beauty be short-lived , and this funny little face and a green crape dress be a comical end to it .
I have well have marry my amiable shepherd .
It must be for my pride that I be condemn to be a Grasshopper , and sing day and night in the grass by this brook , when I feel far more inclined to cry . '
In the meantime Prince Peerless have discover the Princess 's absence , and be lament over it by the river 's brim , when he suddenly become aware of the presence of a little old woman .
She be quaintly dress in a ruff and farthingale , and a velvet hood cover her snow-white hair .
` You seem sorrowful , my son , ' she say .
` What be the matter ? '
` Alas !
mother , ' answer the Prince , ' I have lose my sweet shepherdess , but I be determine to find her again , though I should have to traverse the whole world in search of her . '
` Go that way , my son , ' say the old woman , point towards the path that lead to the castle . '
I have an idea that you will soon overtake her . '
The Prince thank her heartily and set out .
As he meet with no hindrance , he soon reach the enchant wood which surround the castle , and there he think he saw the Princess Sunbeam glide before him among the tree .
Prince Peerless hasten after her at the top of his speed , but could not get any nearer ; then he call to her : ` Sunbeam , my darling -- only wait for me a moment . '
But the phantom do but fly the faster , and the Prince spend the whole day in this vain pursuit .
When night come he saw the castle before him all light up , and a he imagine that the Princess must be in it , he make haste to get there too .
He enter without difficulty , and in the hall the terrible old Fairy meet him .
She be so thin that the light shone through her , and her eye glow like lamp ; her skin be like a shark 's , her arm be thin a lath , and her finger like spindle .
Nevertheless she wear rouge and patch , a mantle of silver brocade and a crown of diamond , and her dress be cover with jewel , and green and pink ribbon .
` At last you have come to see me , Prince , ' say she .
` Do n't waste another thought upon that little shepherdess , who be unworthy of your notice .
I be the Queen of the Comets , and can bring you to great honour if you will marry me . '
` Marry you , Madam , ' cry the Prince , in horror .
` No , I will never consent to that . '
Thereupon the Fairy , in a rage , give two stroke of her wand and fill the gallery with horrible goblin , against whom the Prince have to fight for his life .
Though he have only his dagger , he defend himself so well that he escape without any harm , and presently the old Fairy stop the fray and ask the Prince if he be still of the same mind .
When he answer firmly that he be , she call up the appearance of the Princess Sunbeam to the other end of the gallery , and say : ` You see your beloved there ?
Take care what you be about , for if you again refuse to marry me she shall be tear in piece by two tiger . '
The Prince be distract , for he fancy he hear his dear shepherdess weeping and beg him to save her .
In despair he cry : ` Oh , Fairy Douceline , have you abandon me after so many promise of friendship ?
Help , help u now ! '
Immediately a soft voice say in his ear : ` Be firm , happen what may , and seek the Golden Branch . '
Thus encourage , the Prince persevere in his refusal , and at length the old Fairy in a fury cry : ` Get out of my sight , obstinate Prince .
Become a Cricket ! '
And instantly the handsome Prince Peerless become a poor little black Cricket , whose only idea would have be to find himself a cosy cranny behind some blaze hearth , if he have not luckily remember the Fairy Douceline 's injunction to seek the Golden Branch .
So he hasten to depart from the fatal castle , and seek shelter in a hollow tree , where he find a forlorn look little Grasshopper crouching in a corner , too miserable to sing .
Without in the least expect an answer , the Prince ask it : ` And where may you be go , Gammer Grasshopper ? '
` Where be you go yourself , Gaffer Cricket ? '
reply the Grasshopper .
` What !
can you speak ? '
say he .
` Why should I not speak as well a you ?
Is n't a Grasshopper as good a a Cricket ? '
say she . '
I can talk because I be a Prince , ' say the Cricket .
` And for that very same reason I ought to be able to talk more than you , for I be a Princess , ' reply the Grasshopper .
` Then you have meet with the same fate a I have , ' say he .
` But where be you go now ?
Can not we journey together ? ' '
I seem to hear a voice in the air which say : `` Be firm , happen what may , and seek the Golden Branch , '' ' answer the Grasshopper , ` and I think the command must be for me , so I start at once , though I do n't know the way . '
At this moment their conversation be interrupt by two mouse , who , breathless from run , flung themselves headlong through the hole into the tree , nearly crush the Grasshopper and the Cricket , though they get out of the way a fast a they could and stand up in a dark corner .
` Ah , Madam , ' say the fatter of the two , ' I have such a pain in my side from run so fast .
How do your Highness find yourself ? ' '
I have pull my tail off , ' reply the young Mouse , ` but a I should still be on the sorcerer 's table unless I have , I do not regret it .
Are we pursue , think you ?
How lucky we be to escape ! ' '
I only trust that we may escape cat and trap , and reach the Golden Branch soon , ' say the fat Mouse .
` You know the way then ? '
say the other .
` Oh dear , yes !
as well a the way to my own house , Madam .
This Golden Branch be indeed a marvel , a single leaf from it make one rich for ever .
It break enchantment , and make all who approach it young and beautiful .
We must set out for it at the break of day . '
` May we have the honour of travel with you -- this respectable Cricket and myself ? '
say the Grasshopper , step forward .
` We also be on a pilgrimage to the Golden Branch . '
The Mice courteously assent , and after many polite speech the whole party fell asleep .
With the early dawn they be on their way , and though the Mice be in constant fear of be overtake or trap , they reach the Golden Branch in safety .
It grow in the midst of a wonderful garden , all the path of which be strewn with pearl as big a pea .
The rose be crimson diamond , with emerald leaf .
The pomegranate be garnet , the marigold topaz , the daffodil yellow diamond , the violet sapphires , the corn-flowers turquoise , the tulip amethyst , opal and diamond , so that the garden border blaze like the sun .
The Golden Branch itself have become as tall a a forest tree , and sparkle with ruby cherry to it topmost twig .
No sooner have the Grasshopper and the Cricket touch it than they be restore to their natural form , and their surprise and joy be great when they recognise each other .
At this moment Florimond and the Fairy Douceline appear in great splendour , and the Fairy , a she descend from her chariot , say with a smile : ` So you two have find one another again , I see , but I have still a surprise left for you .
Do n't hesitate , Princess , to tell your devote shepherd how dearly you love him , a he be the very Prince your father send you to marry .
So come here both of you and let me crown you , and we will have the wedding at once . '
The Prince and Princess thank her with all their heart , and declare that to her they owe all their happiness , and then the two Princesses , who have so lately be Mice , come and beg that the Fairy would use her power to release their unhappy friend who be still under the Enchanter 's spell .
` Really , ' say the Fairy Douceline , ` on this happy occasion I can not find it in my heart to refuse you anything . '
And she give three stroke of her wand upon the Golden Branch , and immediately all the prisoner in the Enchanter 's castle find themselves free , and come with all speed to the wonderful garden , where one touch of the Golden Branch restore each one to his natural form , and they greet one another with many rejoicing .
To complete her generous work the Fairy present them with the wonderful cabinet and all the treasure it contain , which be worth at least ten kingdom .
But to Prince Peerless and the Princess Sunbeam she give the palace and garden of the Golden Branch , where , immensely rich and greatly beloved by all their subject , they live happily ever after .
-LRB- 18 -RRB- -LRB- 18 -RRB- Le Rameau d'Or .
Par Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE THREE DWARFS THERE be once upon a time a man who lose his wife , and a woman who lose her husband ; and the man have a daughter and so have the woman .
The two girl be great friend and use often to play together .
One day the woman turn to the man 's daughter and say : ` Go and tell your father that I will marry him , and then you shall wash in milk and drink wine , but my own daughter shall wash in water and drink it too . '
The girl go straight home and tell her father what the woman have say .
` What be I to do ? '
he answer .
` Marriage be either a success or it be a failure . '
At last , be of an undecided character and not be able to make up his mind , he take off his boot , and hand it to his daughter , say : ` Take this boot which have a hole in the sole , hang it up on a nail in the hayloft , and pour water into it .
If it hold water I will marry again , but if it do n't I wo n't . '
The girl do a she be bid , but the water draw the hole together and the boot fill up to the very top .
So she go and tell her father the result .
He get up and go to see for himself , and when he saw that it be true and no mistake , he accept his fate , propose to the widow , and they be marry at once .
On the morning after the wedding , when the two girl awake , milk be stand for the man 's daughter to wash in and wine for her to drink ; but for the woman 's daughter , only water to wash in and only water to drink .
On the second morning , water to wash in and water to drink be stand for the man 's daughter as well .
And on the third morning , water to wash in and water to drink be stand for the man 's daughter , and milk to wash in and wine to drink for the woman 's daughter ; and so it continue ever after .
The woman hat her stepdaughter from the bottom of her heart , and do all she could to make her life miserable .
She be as jealous a she could possibly be , because the girl be so beautiful and charming , while her own daughter be both ugly and repulsive .
One winter 's day when there be a hard frost , and mountain and valley be cover with snow , the woman make a dress of paper , and call the girl to her say : ` There , put on this dress and go out into the wood and fetch me a basket of strawberry ! '
` Now Heaven help u , ' reply her stepdaughter ; ` strawberry do n't grow in winter ; the earth be all frozen and the snow have cover up everything ; and why send me in a paper dress ?
it be so cold outside that one 's very breath freeze ; the wind will whistle through my dress , and the bramble tear it from my body . '
` How dare you contradict me ! '
say her stepmother ; ` be off with you at once , and do n't show your face again till you have fill the basket with strawberry . '
Then she give her a hard crust of bread , say : ` That will be enough for you to-day , ' and she think to herself : ` The girl will certainly perish of hunger and cold outside , and I sha n't be bother with her any more . '
The girl be so obedient that she put on the paper dress and set out with her little basket .
There be nothing but snow far and near , and not a green blade of grass to be see anywhere .
When she come to the wood she saw a little house , and out of it peep three little dwarf .
She wish them good-day , and knock modestly at the door .
They call out to her to enter , so she step in and sit down on a seat by the fire , wish to warm herself and eat her breakfast .
The Dwarfs say at once : ` Give u some of your food ! '
` Gladly , ' she say , and break her crust in two , she give them the half .
Then they ask her what she be do in the depth of winter in her thin dress .
` Oh , ' she answer , ' I have be send to get a basketful of strawberry , and I dare n't show my face again at home till I bring them with me . '
When she have finish her bread they give her a broom and tell her to sweep away the snow from the back door .
As soon a she leave the room to do so , the three little men consult what they should give her a a reward for be so sweet and good , and for share her last crust with them .
The first say : ` Every day she shall grow prettier . '
The second : ` Every time she open her mouth a piece of gold shall fall out . '
And the third : ' A King shall come and marry her . '
The girl in the meantime be do a the Dwarfs have bid her , and be sweep the snow away from the back door , and what do you think she find there ?
-- heap of fine ripe strawberry that show out dark red against the white snow .
She joyfully pick enough to fill her basket , thank the little men for their kindness , shake hand with them , and run home to bring her stepmother what she have ask for .
When she walk in and say ; Good evening , ' a piece of gold fell out of her mouth .
Then she tell what have hap-pened to her in the wood , and at every word piece of gold drop from her mouth , so that the room be soon cover with them .
` She 's surely more money than wit to throw gold about like that , ' say her stepsister , but in her secret heart she be very jealous , and determine that she too would go to the wood and look for strawberry .
But her mother refuse to let her go , say : ` My dear child , it be far too cold ; you might freeze to death . '
The girl however leave her no peace , so she be force at last to give in , but she insist on her put on a beautiful fur cloak , and she give her bread and butter and cake to eat on the way .
The girl go straight to the little house in the wood , and a before the three little men be look out of the window .
She take no notice of them , and without as much a ` By your leave , ' or ` With your leave , ' she flounce into the room , sit herself down at the fire , and begin to eat her bread and butter and cake .
` Give u some , ' cry the Dwarfs .
But she answer : ` No , I wo n't , it 's hardly enough for myself ; so catch me give you any . '
When she have finish eat they say : ` There 's a broom for you , go and clear up our back door . '
` I 'll see myself far , ' she answer rudely .
` Do it yourselves ; I 'm not your servant . '
When she saw that they do not mean to give her anything , she leave the house in no amiable frame of mind .
Then the three little men consult what they should do to her , because she be so bad and have such an evil , covetous heart , that she grudge everybody their good fortune .
The first say : ` She shall grow ugly every day . '
The second : ` Every time she speak a toad shall jump out of her mouth . '
And the third : ` She shall die a most miserable death . '
The girl search for strawberry , but she find none , and return home in a very bad temper .
When she open her mouth to tell her mother what have befall her in the wood , a toad jump out , so that everyone be quite disgusted with her .
Then the stepmother be more furious than ever , and do nothing but plot mischief against the man 's daughter , who be daily grow more and more beautiful .
At last , one day the wicked woman take a large pot , put it on the fire and boil some yarn in it .
When it be well scald she hang it round the poor girl 's shoulder , and give her an axe , she bid her break a hole in the frozen river , and rinse the yarn in it .
Her stepdaughter obey a usual , and go and break a hole in the ice .
When she be in the act of wring out the yarn a magnificent carriage pass , and the King sit inside .
The carriage stand still , and the King ask her : ` My child , who be you , and what in the wide world be you do here ? ' '
I be only a poor girl , ' she answer , ` and be rinse out my yarn in the river . '
Then the King be sorry for her , and when he saw how beautiful she be he say : ` Will you come away with me ? '
` Most gladly , ' she reply , for she know how willingly she would leave her stepmother and sister , and how glad they would be to be rid of her .
So she step into the carriage and drive away with the King , and when they reach his palace the wedding be celebrate with much splendour .
So all turn out just a the three little Dwarfs have say .
After a year the Queen give birth to a little son .
When her stepmother heard of her good fortune she come to the palace with her daughter by way of pay a call , and take up her abode there .
Now one day , when the King be out and nobody else near , the bad woman take the Queen by her head , and the daughter take her by her heel , and they drag her from her bed , and fling her out of the window into the stream which flow beneath it .
Then the stepmother lay her ugly daughter in the Queen 's place , and cover her up with the clothes , so that nothing of her be see .
When the King come home and wish to speak to his wife the woman call out : ` Quietly , quietly I this will never do ; your wife be very ill , you must let her rest all to-day . '
The King suspect no evil , and do n't come again till next morning .
When he speak to his wife and she answer him , instead of the usual piece of gold a toad jump out of her mouth .
Then he ask what it mean , and the old woman tell him it be nothing but weakness , and that she would soon be all right again .
But that same even the scullion notice a duck swim up the gutter , say a it pass : ` What do the King , I pray you tell , Is he awake or sleep he well ? '
and receive no reply , it continue : ` And all my guest , be they asleep ? '
and the Scullion answer : ` Yes , one and all they slumber deep . '
Then the Duck go on : ` And what about my baby dear ? '
and he answer : ` Oh , it sleep soundly , never fear . '
Then the Duck assume the Queen 's shape , go up to the child 's room , tuck him up comfortably in his cradle , and then swim back down the gutter again , in the likeness of a Duck .
This be repeat for two night , and on the third the Duck say to the Scullion : ` Go and tell the King to swing his sword three time over me on the threshold . '
The Scullion do a the creature bid him , and the King come with his sword and swung it three time over the bird , and lo and behold !
his wife stand before him once more , alive , and as blooming a ever .
The King rejoice greatly , but he keep the Queen in hide till the Sunday on which the child be to be christen .
After the christening he say : ` What punishment do that person deserve who drag another out of bed , and throw him or her , a the case may be , into the water ? '
Then the wicked old stepmother answer : ` No well fate than to be put into a barrel line with sharp nail , and to be roll in it down the hill into the water . '
` You have pronounce your own doom , ' say the King ; and he order a barrel to be make line with sharp nail , and in it he put the bad old woman and her daughter .
Then it be fasten down securely , and the barrel be roll down the hill till it fell into the river .
-LRB- 19 -RRB- -LRB- 19 -RRB- Grimm .
DAPPLEGRIM THERE be once upon a time a couple of rich folk who have twelve son , and when the young be grow up he would not stay at home any long , but would go out into the world and seek his fortune .
His father and mother say that they think he be very well off at home , and that he be welcome to stay with them ; but he could not rest , and say that he must and would go , so at last they have to give him leave .
When he have walk a long way , he come to a King 's palace .
There he ask for a place and get it .
Now the daughter of the King of that country have be carry off into the mountain by a Troll , and the King have no other child , and for this cause both he and all his people be full of sorrow and affliction , and the King have promise the Princess and half his kingdom to anyone who could set her free ; but there be no one who could do it , though a great number have try .
So when the youth have be there for the space of a year or so , he want to go home again to pay his parent a visit ; but when he get there his father and mother be dead , and his brother have divide everything that their parent possess between themselves , so that there be nothing at all leave for him .
` Shall I , then , receive nothing at all of my inheritance ? '
ask the youth .
` Who could know that you be still alive -- you who have be a wanderer so long ? '
answer the brother .
` However , there be twelve mare upon the hill which we have not yet divide among u , and if you would like to have them for your share , you may take them . '
So the youth , well pleased with this , thank them , and at once set off to the hill where the twelve mare be at pasture .
When he get up there and find them , each mare have her foal , and by the side of one of them be a big dapple-grey foal as well , which be so sleek that it shine again .
` Well , my little foal , you be a fine fellow ! '
say the youth .
` Yes , but if you will kill all the other little foal so that I can suck all the mare for a year , you shall see how big and handsome I shall be then ! '
say the Foal .
So the youth do this -- he kill all the twelve foal , and then go back again .
Next year , when he come home again to look after his mare and the foal , it be as fat a it could be , and it coat shone with brightness , and it be so big that the lad have the great difficulty in get on it back , and each of the mare have another foal .
` Well , it 's very evident that I have lose nothing by let you suck all my mare , ' say the lad to the yearling ; ` but now you be quite big enough , and must come away with me . '
` No , ' say the Colt , ' I must stay here another year ; kill the twelve little foal , and then I can suck all the mare this year also , and you shall see how big and handsome I shall be by summer . '
So the youth do it again , and when he go up on the hill next year to look after his colt and the mare , each of the mare have her foal again ; but the dappled colt be so big that when the lad want to feel it neck to see how fat it be , he could not reach up to it , it be so high ?
and it be so bright that the light glance off it coat .
` Big and handsome you be last year , my colt , but this year you be ever so much handsomer , ' say the youth ; ` in all the King 's court no such horse be to be find .
But now you shall come away with me . '
` No , ' say the dappled Colt once more ; ` here I must stay for another year .
Just kill the twelve little foal again , so that I can suck the mare this year also , and then come and look at me in the summer . '
So the youth do it -- he kill all the little foal , and then go home again .
But next year , when he return to look after the dappled colt and the mare , he be quite appalled .
He have never imagine that any horse could become so big and overgrown , for the dappled horse have to lie down on all four before the youth could get on his back , and it be very hard to do that even when it be lie down , and it be so plump that it coat shone and glisten just a if it have be a looking-glass .
This time the dappled horse be not unwilling to go away with the youth , so he mount it , and when he come rid home to his brother they all smite their hand together and cross themselves , for never in their life have they either see or hear tell of such a horse a that .
` If you will procure me the best shoe for my horse , and the most magnificent saddle and bridle that can be find , ' say the youth , ` you may have all my twelve mar just a they be stand out on the hill , and their twelve foal into the bargain . '
For this year also each mare have her foal .
The brother be quite willing to do this ; so the lad get such shoe for his horse that the stick and stone flew high up into the air a he ride away over the hill , and such a gold saddle and such a gold bridle that they could be see glitter and glance from afar .
` And now we will go to the King 's palace , ' say Dapplegrim -- that be the horse 's name , ` but bear in mind that you must ask the King for a good stable and excellent fodder for me . '
So the lad promise not to forget to do that .
He ride to the palace , and it will be easily understood that with such a horse a he have he be not long on the way .
When he arrive there , the King be stand out on the step , and how he do stare at the man who come rid up !
` Nay , ' say he , ` never in my whole life have I see such a man and such a horse . '
And when the youth inquire if he could have a place in the King 's palace , the King be so delighted that he could have dance on the step where he be stand , and there and then the lad be tell that he should have a place .
` Yes ; but I must have a good stable and most excellent fodder for my horse , ' say he .
So they tell him that he should have sweet hay and oat , and as much of them a the dappled horse chose to have , and all the other rider have to take their horse out of the stable that Dapplegrim might stand alone and really have plenty of room .
But this do not last long , for the other people in the King 's Court become envious of the lad , and there be no bad thing that they would not have do to him if they have but dare .
At last they bethink themselves of tell the King that the youth have say that , if he choose , he be quite able to rescue the Princess who have be carry off into the mountain a long time ago by the Troll .
The King immediately summon the lad into his presence , and say that he have be inform that he have say that it be in his power to rescue the Princess , so he be now to do it .
If he succeed in this , he no doubt know that the King have promise his daughter and half the kingdom to anyone who set her free , which promise should be faithfully and honourably keep , but if he fail he should be put to death .
The youth deny that he have say this , but all to no purpose , for the King be deaf to all his word ; so there be nothing to be do but say that he would make the attempt .
He go down into the stable , and very sad and full of care he be .
Then Dapplegrim inquire why he be so troubled , and the youth tell him , and say that he do not know what to do , ` for as to set the Princess free , that be downright impossible . '
` Oh , but it might be do , ' say Dapplegrim . '
I will help you ; but you must first have me well shod .
You must ask for ten pound of iron and twelve pound of steel for the shoeing , and one smith to hammer and one to hold . '
So the youth do this , and no one say him nay .
He get both the iron and the steel , and the smith , and thus be Dapplegrim shod strongly and well , and when the youth go out of the King 's palace a cloud of dust rise up behind him .
But when he come to the mountain into which the Princess have be carry , the difficulty be to ascend the precipitous wall of rock by which he be to get on to the mountain beyond , for the rock stand right up on end , as steep a a house side and as smooth a a sheet of glass .
The first time the youth rode at it he get a little way up the precipice , but then both Dapplegrim 's fore leg slip , and down come horse and rider with a sound like thunder among the mountain .
The next time that he ride at it he get a little farther up , but then one of Dapplegrim 's fore leg slip , and down they go with the sound of a landslip .
But the third time Dapplegrim say : ` Now we must show what we can do , ' and go at it once more till the stone spring up sky high , and thus they get up .
Then the lad rode into the mountain cleft at full gallop and catch up the Princess on his saddle-bow , and then out again before the Troll even have time to stand up , and thus the Princess be set free .
When the youth return to the palace the King be both happy and delight to get his daughter back again , a may easily be believe , but somehow or other the people about the Court have so work on him that he be angry with the lad too .
` Thou shalt have my thanks for set my Princess free , ' he say , when the youth come into the palace with her , and be then about to go away .
She ought to be just as much my Princess a she be yours now , for you be a man of your word , ' say the youth .
` Yes , yes , ' say the King .
` Have her thou shalt , a I have say it ; but first of all thou must make the sun shine into my palace here . '
For there be a large and high hill outside the window which overshadow the palace so much that the sun could not shine in .
` That be no part of our bargain , ' answer the youth .
` But a nothing that I can say will move you , I suppose I shall have to try to do my best , for the Princess I will have . '
So he go down to Dapplegrim again and tell him what the King desire , and Dapplegrim think that it might easily be do ; but first of all he must have new shoe , and ten pound of iron and twelve pound of steel must go to the making of them , and two smith be also necessary , one to hammer and one to hold , and then it would be very easy to make the sun shine into the King 's palace .
The lad ask for these thing and obtain them instantly , for the King think that for very shame he could not refuse to give them , and so Dapplegrim get new shoe , and they be good one .
The youth seat himself on him , and once more they go their way , and for each hop that Dapplegrim make , down go the hill fifteen ells into the earth , and so they go on until there be no hill leave for the King to see .
When the youth come down again to the King 's palace he ask the King if the Princess should not at last be his , for now no one could say that the sun be not shin into the palace .
But the other people in the palace have again stir up the King , and he answer that the youth should have her , and that he have never intend that he should not ; but first of all he must get her quite a good a horse to ride to the wedding on a that which he have himself .
The youth say that the King have never tell him he be to do that , and it seem to him that he have now really earn the Princess ; but the King stuck to what he have say , and if the youth be unable to do it he be to lose his life , the King say .
The youth go down to the stable again , and very sad and sorrowful he be , a anyone may well imagine .
Then he tell Dapplegrim that the King have now require that he should get the Princess a good a bridal horse a that which the bridegroom have , or he should lose his life .
` But that will be no easy thing to do , ' say he , ` for your equal be not to be find in all the world . '
` Oh yes , there be one to match me , ' say Dapplegrim .
` But it will not be easy to get him , for he be underground .
However , we will try .
Now you must go up to the King and ask for new shoe for me , and for them we must again have ten pound of iron , twelve pound of steel , and two smith , one to hammer and one to hold , but be very particular to see that the hook be very sharp .
And you must also ask for twelve barrel of rye , and twelve slaughter oxen must we have with u , and all the twelve ox-hides with twelve hundred spike set in each of them ; all these thing must we have , likewise a barrel of tar with twelve ton of tar in it .
The youth go to the King and ask for all the thing that Dapplegrim have name , and once more , a the King think that it would be disgraceful to refuse them to him , he obtain them all .
So he mount Dapplegrim and ride away from the Court , and when he have ride for a long , long time over hill and moor , Dapplegrim ask : ` Do you hear anything ? '
` Yes ; there be such a dreadful whistle up above in the air that I think I be grow alarm , ' say the youth .
` That be all the wild bird in the forest fly about ; they be send to stop u , ' say Dapplegrim .
` But just cut a hole in the corn sack , and then they will be so busy with the corn that they will forget u . '
The youth do it .
He cut hole in the corn sack so that barley and rye run out on every side , and all the wild bird that be in the forest come in such number that they darken the sun .
But when they catch sight of the corn they could not refrain from it , but fly down and begin to scratch and pick at the corn and rye , and at last they begin to fight among themselves , and forget all about the youth and Dapplegrim , and do them no harm .
And now the youth rode onwards for a long , long time , over hill and dale , over rocky place and morass , and then Dapplegrim begin to listen again , and ask the youth if he hear anything now .
` Yes ; now I hear such a dreadful crackling and crashing in the forest on every side that I think I shall be really afraid , ' say the youth .
` That be all the wild beast in the forest , ' say Dapplegrim ; ` they be send out to stop u .
But just throw out the twelve carcass of the ox , and they will be so much occupy with them that they will quite forget u . '
So the youth throw out the carcass of the ox , and then all the wild beast in the forest , both bear and wolf , and lion , and grim beast of all kind , come .
But when they catch sight of the carcass of the ox they begin to fight for them till the blood flow , and they entirely forget Dapplegrim and the youth .
So the youth rode onwards again , and many and many be the new scene they saw , for travel on Dapplegrim 's back be not travel slowly , a may be imagine , and then Dapplegrim neigh .
` Do you hear anything ?
he say .
` Yes ; I hear something like a foal neigh quite plainly a long , long way off , ' answer the youth .
` That 's a full-grown colt , ' say Dapplegrim , ` if you hear it so plainly when it be so far away from u . '
So they travel onwards a long time , and saw one new scene after another once more .
Then Dapplegrim neigh again .
` Do you hear anything now ? '
say he .
` Yes ; now I hear it quite distinctly , and it neigh like a full-grown horse , ' answer the youth .
` Yes , and you will hear it again very soon , ' say Dapplegrim ; ` and then you will hear what a voice it have . '
So they travel on through many more different kind of country , and then Dapplegrim neigh for the third time ; but before he could ask the youth if he hear anything , there be such a neighing on the other side of the heath that the youth think that hill and rock would be rent in piece .
` Now he be here ! '
say Dapplegrim .
` Be quick , and fling over me the ox-hides that have the spike in them , throw the twelve ton of tar over the field , and climb up into that great spruce fir tree .
When he come , fire will spurt out of both his nostril , and then the tar will catch fire .
Now mark what I say -- if the flame ascend I conquer , and if it sink I fail ; but if you see that I be win , fling the bridle , which you must take off me , over his head , and then he will become quite gentle . '
Just a the youth have fling all the hide with the spike over Dapplegrim , and the tar over the field , and have get safely up into the spruce fir , a horse come with flame spout from his nostril , and the tar catch fire in a moment ; and Dapplegrim and the horse begin to fight until the stone leap up to the sky .
They bite , and they fight with their fore leg and their hind leg , and sometimes the youth look at them .
And sometimes he look at the tar , but at last the flame begin to rise , for wheresoever the strange horse bit or wheresoever he kick he hit upon the spike in the hide , and at length he have to yield .
When the youth saw that , he be not long in get down from the tree and fling the bridle over the horse 's head , and then he become so tame that he might have be lead by a thin string .
This horse be dapple too , and so like Dapplegrim that no one could distinguish the one from the other .
The youth seat himself on the dappled horse which he have capture , and ride home again to the King 's palace , and Dapplegrim run loose by his side .
When he get there , the King be stand outside in the courtyard .
` Can you tell me which be the horse I have catch , and which be the one I have before ? '
say the youth .
` If you ca n't , I think your daughter be mine . '
The King go and look at both the dappled horse ; he look high and he look low , he look before and he look behind , but there be not a hair 's difference between the two .
` No , ' say the King ; ` that I can not tell thee , and a thou hast procure such a splendid bridal horse for my daughter thou shalt have her ; but first we must have one more trial , just to see if thou art fat to have her .
She shall hide herself twice , and then thou shalt hide thyself twice .
If thou canst find her each time that she hide herself , and if she can not find thee in thy hiding-places , then it be fat , and thou shalt have the Princess . '
` That , too , be not in our bargain , ' say the youth .
` But we will make this trial since it must be so . '
So the King 's daughter be to hide herself first .
Then she change herself into a duck , and lay swim in a lake that be just outside the palace .
But the youth go down into the stable and ask Dapplegrim what she have do with herself .
` Oh , all that you have to do be to take your gun , and go down to the water and aim at the duck which be swim about there , and she will soon discover herself , ' say Dapplegrim .
The youth snatch up his gun and ran to the lake . '
I will just have a shot at that duck , ' say he , and begin to aim at it .
` Oh , no , dear friend , do n't shoot !
It be I , ' say the Princess .
So he have find her once .
The second time the Princess change herself into a loaf , and lay herself on the table among four other loaf ; and she be so like the other loaf that no one could see any difference between them .
But the youth again go down to the stable to Dapplegrim , and tell him that the Princess have hide herself again , and that he have not the least idea what have become of her .
` Oh , just take a very large bread-knife , sharpen it , and pretend that you be go to cut straight through the third of the four loaf which be lie on the kitchen table in the King 's palace -- count them from right to leave -- and you will soon find her , ' say Dapplegrim .
So the youth go up to the kitchen , and begin to sharpen the large bread-knife that he could find ; then he catch hold of the third loaf on the left-hand side , and put the knife to it a if he mean to cut it straight in two . '
I will have a bit of this bread for myself , ' say he .
` No , dear friend , do n't cut , it be I ! '
say the Princess again ; so he have find her the second time .
And now it be his turn to go and hide himself ; but Dapplegrim have give him such good instruction that it be not easy to find him .
First he turn himself into a horse-fly , and hid himself in Dapplegrim 's left nostril .
The Princess go poke about and search everywhere , high and low , and want to go into Dapplegrim 's stall too , but he begin to bite and kick about so that she be afraid to go there , and could not find the youth .
` Well , ' say she , ` a I be unable to find you , you must show yourself ; ` whereupon the youth immediately appear stand there on the stable floor .
Dapplegrim tell him what he be to do the second time , and he turn himself into a lump of earth , and stick himself between the hoof and the shoe on Dapplegrim 's left fore foot .
Once more the King 's daughter go and seek everywhere , inside and outside , until at last she come into the stable , and want to go into the stall beside Dapplegrim .
So this time he allow her to go into it , and she peer about high and low , but she could not look under his hoof , for he stand much too firmly on his leg for that , and she could not find the youth .
` Well , you will just have to show where you be yourself , for I ca n't find you , ' say the Princess , and in an instant the youth be stand by her side on the floor of the stable .
` Now you be mine ! '
say he to the Princess .
` Now you can see that it be fat that she should be mine , ' he say to the King .
` Yes , fat it be , ' say the King .
` So what must be , must . '
Then everything be make ready for the wedding with great splendour and promptitude , and the youth rode to church on Dapplegrim , and the King 's daughter on the other horse .
So everyone must see that they could not be long on their way thither .
-LRB- 20 -RRB- -LRB- 20 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE ENCHANTED CANARY I ONCE upon a time , in the reign of King Cambrinus , there live at Avesnes one of his lord , who be the fine man -- by which I mean the fat -- in the whole country of Flanders .
He eat four meal a day , sleep twelve hour out of the twenty-four , and the only thing he ever do be to shoot at small bird with his bow and arrow .
Still , with all his practice he shoot very badly , he be so fat and heavy , and a he grow daily fatter , he be at last oblige to give up walking , and be drag about in a wheel-chair , and the people make fun of him , and give him the name of my Lord Tubby .
Now , the only trouble that Lord Tubby have be about his son , whom he love very much , although they be not in the least alike , for the young Prince be as thin a a cuckoo .
And what vex him more than all be , that though the young lady throughout all his land do their best to make the Prince fall in love with them , he would have nothing to say to any of them , and tell his father he do not wish to marry .
Instead of chat with them in the dusk , he wander about the wood , whisper to the moon .
No wonder the young lady think him very odd , but they like him all the good for that ; and a he have receive at his birth the name of Desire , they all call him d'Amour Desire .
` What be the matter with you ? '
his father often say to him .
` You have everything you can possibly wish for : a good bed , good food , and tuns full of beer .
The only thing you want , in order to become as fat a a pig , be a wife that can bring you broad , rich land .
So marry , and you will be perfectly happy . ' '
I ask nothing well than to marry , ' reply Desire , ` but I have never see a woman that please me .
All the girl here be pink and white , and I be tire to death of their eternal lilie and rose .
` My faith ! '
cried Tubby ; ` do you want to marry a negress , and give me grandchildren as ugly a monkey and as stupid a owl ? '
` No , father , nothing of the sort .
But there must be woman somewhere in the world who be neither pink nor white , and I tell you , once for all , that I will never marry until I have find one exactly to my taste . '
II Some time afterwards , it happen that the Prior of the Abbey of Saint Amand send to the Lord of Avesnes a basket of orange , with a beautifully-written letter say that these golden fruit , then unknown in Flanders , come straight from a land where the sun always shone .
That even Tubby and his son eat the golden apple at supper , and think them delicious .
Next morning a the day dawn , Desire go down to the stable and saddle his pretty white horse .
Then he go , all dress for a journey , to the bedside of Tubby , and find him smoke his first pipe .
` Father , ' he say gravely , ' I have come to bid you farewell .
Last night I dream that I be walk in a wood , where the tree be cover with golden apple .
I gather one of them , and when I open it there come out a lovely princess with a golden skin .
That be the wife I want , and I be go to look for her . '
The Lord of Avesnes be so much astonish that he let his pipe fall to the ground ; then he become so divert at the notion of his son marry a yellow woman , and a woman shut up inside an orange , that he burst into fit of laughter .
Desire wait to bid him good-bye until he be quiet again ; but a his father go on laughing and show no sign of stopping , the young man take his hand , kiss it tenderly , open the door , and in the twinkling of an eye be a at the bottom of the staircase .
He jump lightly on his horse , and be a mile from home before Tubby have cease laugh . '
A yellow wife !
He must be mad !
fit for a strait waistcoat ! '
cry the good man , when he be able to speak .
` Here !
quick !
bring him back to me . '
The servant mount their horse and rode after the Prince ; but a they do not know which road he have take , they go all way except the right one , and instead of bring him back they return themselves when it grow dark , with their horse wear out and cover with dust .
III When Desire think they could no longer catch him , he pull his horse into a walk , like a prudent man who know he have far to go .
He travel in this way for many week , pass by village , town , mountain , valley , and plain , but always push south , where every day the sun seem hot and more brilliant .
At last one day at sunset Desire felt the sun so warm , that he think he must now be near the place of his dream .
He be at that moment close to the corner of a wood where stand a little hut , before the door of which his horse stop of his own accord .
An old man with a white beard be sit on the doorstep enjoy the fresh air .
The Prince get down from his horse and ask leave to rest .
` Come in , my young friend , ' say the old man ; ` my house be not large , but it be big enough to hold a stranger . '
The traveller enter , and his host put before him a simple meal .
When his hunger be satisfy the old man say to him : ` If I do not mistake , you come from far .
May I ask where you be go ? ' '
I will tell you , ' answered Desire , ` though most likely you will laugh at me .
I dream that in the land of the sun there be a wood full of orange tree , and that in one of the orange I should find a beautiful princess who be to be my wife .
It be she I be seek . '
` Why should I laugh ? '
ask the old man .
` Madness in youth be true wisdom .
Go , young man , follow your dream , and if you do not find the happiness that you seek , at any rate you will have have the happiness of seek it . '
IV The next day the Prince arise early and take leave of his host .
` The wood that you saw in your dream be not far from here , ' say the old man .
` It be in the depth of the forest , and this road will lead you there .
You will come to a vast park surround by high wall .
In the middle of the park be a castle , where dwell a horrible witch who allow no living be to enter the door .
Behind the castle be the orange grove .
Follow the wall till you come to a heavy iron gate .
Do n't try to press it open , but oil the hinge with this , ' and the old man give him a small bottle .
` The gate will open of itself , ' he continue , ` and a huge dog which guard the castle will come to you with his mouth wide open , but just throw him this oat cake .
Next , you will see a bake woman lean over her heated oven .
Give her this brush .
Lastly , you will find a well on your left ; do not forget to take the cord of the bucket and spread it in the sun .
When you have do this , do not enter the castle , but go round it and enter the orange grove .
Then gather three orange , and get back to the gate a fast a you can .
Once out of the gate , leave the forest by the opposite side .
` Now , attend to this : whatever happens , do not open your orange till you reach the bank of a river , or a fountain .
Out of each orange will come a princess , and you can choose which you like for your wife .
Your choice once make , be very careful never to leave your bride for an instant , and remember that the danger which be most to be fear be never the danger we be most afraid of . '
V Desire thank his host warmly , and take the road he point out .
In less than an hour he arrive at the wall , which be very high indeed .
He spring to the ground , fasten his horse to a tree , and soon find the iron gate .
Then he take out his bottle and oil the hinge , when the gate open of itself , and he saw an old castle stand inside .
The Prince enter boldly into the courtyard .
Suddenly he hear fierce howl , and a dog as tall a a donkey , with eye like billiard ball , come towards him , show his teeth , which be like the prong of a fork .
Desire fling him the oat cake , which the great dog instantly snap up , and the young Prince pass quietly on .
A few yard far he saw a huge oven , with a wide , red-hot gaping mouth .
A woman as tall a a giant be lean over the oven .
Desire give her the brush , which she take in silence .
Then he go on to the well , draw up the cord , which be half rotten , and stretch it out in the sun .
Lastly he go round the castle , and plunge into the orange grove .
There he gather the three most beautiful orange he could find , and turn to go back to the gate .
But just at this moment the sun be darken , the earth tremble , and Desire hear a voice cry : ` Baker , baker , take him by his foot , and throw him into the oven ! '
` No , ' reply the baker ; ' a long time have pass since I first begin to scour this oven with my own flesh .
YOU never care to give me a brush ; but he have give me one , and he shall go in peace . '
` Rope , O rope ! '
cry the voice again , ` twine yourself round his neck and strangle him . '
` No , ' reply the rope ; ` you have leave me for many year past to fall to piece with the damp .
He have stretch me out in the sun .
Let him go in peace . '
` Dog , my good dog , ' cry the voice , more and more angry , ` jump at his throat and eat him up . '
` No , ' reply the dog ; ` though I have serve you long , you never give me any bread .
He have give me as much a I want .
Let him go in peace . '
` Iron gate , iron gate , ' cry the voice , growl like thunder , ` fall on him and grind him to powder . '
` No , ' reply the gate ; ` it be a hundred year since you leave me to rust , and he have oil me .
Let him go in peace . '
VI Once outside , the young adventurer put his orange into a bag that hung from his saddle , mount his horse , and ride quickly out of the forest .
Now , a he be long to see the princess , he be very anxious to come to a river or a fountain , but , though he ride for hour , a river or fountain be nowhere to be see .
Still his heart be light , for he felt that he have get through the most difficult part of his task , and the rest be easy .
About mid-day he reach a sandy plain , scorch in the sun .
Here he be seize with dreadful thirst ; he take his gourd and raise it to his lip .
But the gourd be empty ; in the excitement of his joy he have forget to fill it .
He ride on , struggle with his suffering , but at last he could bear it no longer .
He let himself slide to the earth , and lay down beside his horse , his throat burning , his chest heaving , and his head go round .
Already he felt that death be near him , when his eye fell on the bag where the orange peep out .
Poor Desire , who have brave so many danger to win the lady of his dream , would have give at this moment all the princess in the world , be they pink or golden , for a single drop of water .
` Ah ! '
he say to himself .
` If only these orange be real fruit -- fruit as refreshing a what I eat in Flanders !
And , after all , who know ? '
This idea put some life into him .
He have the strength to lift himself up and put his hand into his bag .
He draw out an orange and open it with his knife .
Out of it fly the pretty little female canary that ever be see .
` Give me something to drink , I be die of thirst , ' say the golden bird .
` Wait a minute , ' reply Desire , so much astonish that he forget his own suffering ; and to satisfy the bird he take a second orange , and open it without think what he be do .
Out of it fly another canary , and she too begin to cry : ' I be die of thirst ; give me something to drink . '
Then Tubby 's son saw his folly , and while the two canary fly away he sink on the ground , where , exhaust by his last effort , he lay unconscious .
VII When he come to himself , he have a pleasant feeling of freshness all about him .
It be night , the sky be sparkle with star , and the earth be cover with a heavy dew .
The traveller have recover , mount his horse , and at the first streak of dawn he saw a stream dancing in front of him , and stoop down and drink his fill .
He hardly have courage to open his last orange .
Then he remember that the night before he have disobey the order of the old man .
Perhaps his terrible thirst be a trick of the cunning witch , and suppose , even though he open the orange on the bank of the stream , that he do not find in it the princess that he seek ?
He take his knife and cut it open .
Alas !
out of it fly a little canary , just like the others , who cry : ' I be thirsty ; give me something to drink . '
Great be the disappointment of Desire .
However , he be determine not to let this bird fly away ; so he take up some water in the palm of his hand and hold it to it beak .
Scarcely have the canary drunk when she become a beautiful girl , tall and straight a a poplar tree , with black eye and a golden skin .
Desire have never see anyone half so lovely , and he stand gaze at her in delight .
On her side she seem quite bewilder , but she look about her with happy eye , and be not at all afraid of her deliverer .
He ask her name .
She answer that she be call the Princess Zizi ; she be about sixteen year old , and for ten year of that time the witch have keep her shut up in an orange , in the shape of a canary .
` Well , then , my charm Zizi , ' say the young Prince , who be long to marry her , ` let u ride away quickly so a to escape from the wicked witch . '
But Zizi wish to know where he mean to take her .
` To my father 's castle , ' he say .
He mount his horse and take her in front of him , and , hold her carefully in his arm , they begin their journey .
VIII Everything the Princess saw be new to her , and in pass through mountain , valley , and town , she ask a thousand question .
Desire be charm to answer them .
It be so delightful to teach those one love !
Once she inquire what the girl in his country be like .
` They be pink and white , ' he reply , ` and their eye be blue . '
` Do you like blue eye ? '
say the Princess ; but Desire think it be a good opportunity to find out what be in her heart , so he do not answer .
` And no doubt , ' go on the Princess , ` one of them be your intended bride ? '
Still he be silent , and Zizi draw herself up proudly .
` No , ' he say at last .
` None of the girl of my own country be beautiful in my eye , and that be why I come to look for a wife in the land of the sun .
Was I wrong , my lovely Zizi ? '
This time it be Zizi 's turn to be silent .
IX Talking in this way they draw near to the castle .
When they be about four stone-throws from the gate they dismount in the forest , by the edge of a fountain .
` My dear Zizi , ' say Tubby 's son , ` we can not present ourselves before my father like two common people who have come back from a walk .
We must enter the castle with more ceremony .
Wait for me here , and in an hour I will return with carriage and horse fit for a princess . '
` Do n't be long , ' reply Zizi , and she watch him go with wistful eye .
When she be leave by herself the poor girl begin to feel afraid .
She be alone for the first time in her life , and in the middle of a thick forest .
Suddenly she hear a noise among the tree .
Fearing l it should be a wolf , she hide herself in the hollow trunk of a willow tree which hung over the fountain .
It be big enough to hold her altogether , but she peep out , and her pretty head be reflect in the clear water .
Then there appear , not a wolf , but a creature quite a wicked and quite a ugly .
Let u see who this creature be .
X Not far from the fountain there live a family of bricklayer .
Now , fifteen year before this time , the father in walk through the forest find a little girl , who have be desert by the gypsy .
He carry her home to his wife , and the good woman be sorry for her , and bring her up with her own son .
As she grow old , the little gypsy become much more remarkable for strength and cunning than for sense or beauty .
She have a low forehead , a flat nose , thick lip , coarse hair , and a skin not golden like that of Zizi , but the colour of clay .
As she be always be tease about her complexion , she get a noisy and cross a a titmouse .
So they use to call her Titty .
Titty be often send by the bricklayer to fetch water from the fountain , and a she be very proud and lazy the gypsy dislike this very much .
It be she who have frighten Zizi by appear with her pitcher on her shoulder .
Just a she be stoop to fill it , she saw reflect in the water the lovely image of the Princess .
` What a pretty face ! '
she exclaim , ` Why , it must be mine !
How in the world can they call me ugly ?
I be certainly much too pretty to be their water carrier ! '
So say , she break her pitcher and go home .
` Where be your pitcher ? '
ask the bricklayer .
` Well , what do you expect ?
The pitcher may go many time to the well ... ' ` But at last it be break .
Well , here be a bucket that will not break . '
The gypsy return to the fountain , and address once more the image of Zizi , she say : ` No ; I do n't mean to be a beast of burden any longer . '
And she fling the bucket so high in the air that it stick in the branch of an oak . '
I meet a wolf , ' she tell the bricklayer , ` and I break the bucket across his nose . '
The bricklayer ask her no more question , but take down a broom and give her such a beating that her pride be humble a little .
Then he hand to her an old copper milk-can , and say : ` If you do n't bring it back full , your bone shall suffer for it . '
XI Titty go off rub her side ; but this time she do not dare to disobey , and in a very bad temper stoop down over the well .
It be not at all easy to fill the milk-can , which be large and round .
It would not go down into the well , and the gypsy have to try again and again .
At last her arm grow so tired that when she do manage to get the can properly under the water she have no strength to pull it up , and it roll to the bottom .
On see the can disappear , she make such a miserable face that Zizi , who have be watch her all this time , burst into fit of laughter .
Titty turn round and perceive the mistake she have make ; and she felt so angry that she make up her mind to be revenge at once .
` What be you do there , you lovely creature ? '
she say to Zizi . '
I be wait for my lover , ' Zizi reply ; and then , with a simplicity quite natural in a girl who so lately have be a canary , she tell all her story .
The gypsy have often see the young Prince pas by , with his gun on his shoulder , when he be go after crow .
She be too ugly and rag for him ever to have notice her , but Titty on her side have admire him , though she think he might well have be a little fatter .
` Dear , dear ! '
she say to herself .
` So he like yellow woman !
Why , I be yellow too , and if I could only think of a way -- ' It be not long before she do think of it .
` What ! '
cry the sly Titty , ` they be come with great pomp to fetch you , and you be not afraid to show yourself to so many fine lord and lady with your hair down like that ?
Get down at once , my poor child , and let me dress your hair for you ! '
The innocent Zizi come down at once , and stood by Titty .
The gypsy begin to comb her long brown lock , when suddenly she draw a pin from her stay , and , just a the titmouse dig it beak into the head of linnet and lark , Titty dig the pin into the head of Zizi .
No sooner do Zizi feel the prick of the pin than she become a bird again , and , spread her wing , she fly away .
` That be neatly do , ' say the gypsy .
` The Prince will be clever if he find his bride . '
And , arrange her dress , she seat herself on the grass to await Desire .
XII Meanwhile the Prince be come as fast a his horse could carry him .
He be so impatient that he be always full fifty yard in front of the lord and lady send by Tubby to bring back Zizi .
At the sight of the hideous gypsy he be strike dumb with surprise and horror .
` Ah me ! '
say Titty , ` so you do n't know your poor Zizi ?
While you be away the wicked witch come , and turn me into this .
But if you only have the courage to marry me I shall get back my beauty . '
And she begin to cry bitterly .
Now the good-natured Desire be as soft-hearted a he be brave .
` Poor girl , ' he think to himself .
` It be not her fault , after all , that she have grow so ugly , it be mine .
Oh !
why do I not follow the old man 's advice ?
Why do I leave her alone ?
And besides , it depend on me to break the spell , and I love her too much to let her remain like this . '
So he present the gypsy to the lord and lady of the Court , explain to them the terrible misfortune which have befall his beautiful bride .
They all pretend to believe it , and the lady at once put on the false princess the rich dress they have bring for Zizi .
She be then perch on the top of a magnificent ambling palfrey , and they set forth to the castle .
But unluckily the rich dress and jewel only make Titty look ugly still , and Desire could not help feel hot and uncomfortable when he make his entry with her into the city .
Bells be peal , chime ring , and the people fill the street and stand at their door to watch the procession go by , and they could hardly believe their eye a they saw what a strange bride their Prince have choose .
In order to do her more honour , Tubby come to meet her at the foot of the great marble staircase .
At the sight of the hideous creature he almost fell backwards .
` What ! '
he cry .
` Is this the wonderful beauty ? '
` Yes , father , it be she , ' reply Desire with a sheepish look .
` But she have be bewitch by a wicked sorceress , and will not regain her beauty until she be my wife . '
` Does she say so ?
Well , if you believe that , you may drink cold water and think it bacon , ' the unhappy Tubby answer crossly .
But all the same , a he adore his son , he give the gypsy his hand and lead her to the great hall , where the bridal feast be spread .
XIII The feast be excellent , but Desire hardly touch anything .
However , to make up , the other guest eat greedily , and , a for Tubby , nothing ever take away his appetite .
When the moment arrive to serve the roast goose , there be a pause , and Tubby take the opportunity to lay down his knife and fork for a little .
But a the goose give no sign of appear , he send his head carver to find out what be the matter in the kitchen .
Now this be what have happen .
While the goose be turn on the spit , a beautiful little canary hop on to the sill of the open window .
` Good-morning , my fine cook , ' she say in a silvery voice to the man who be watch the roast .
` Good-morning , lovely golden bird , ' reply the chief of the scullion , who have be well bring up . '
I pray that Heaven may send you to sleep , ' say the golden bird , ` and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none leave for Titty . '
And instantly the chief of the scullion fell fast asleep , and the goose be burn to a cinder .
When he awake he be horrify , and give order to pluck another goose , to stuff it with chestnut , and put it on the spit .
While it be brown at the fire , Tubby inquire for his goose a second time .
The Master Cook himself mount to the hall to make his excuse , and to beg his lord to have a little patience .
Tubby show his patience by abuse his son .
` As if it be n't enough , ' he grumble between his teeth , ` that the boy should pick up a hag without a penny , but the goose must go and burn now .
It be n't a wife he have bring me , it be Famine herself . '
XIV While the Master Cook be upstairs , the golden bird come again to perch on the window-sill , and call in his clear voice to the head scullion , who be watch the spit : ` Good-morning , my fine Scullion ! '
` Good-morning , lovely Golden Bird , ' reply the Scullion , whom the Master Cook have forget in his excitement to warn . '
I pray Heaven , ' go on the Canary , ` that it will send you to sleep , and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none leave for Titty . '
And the Scullion fell fast asleep , and when the Master Cook come back he find the goose as black a the chimney .
In a fury he wake the Scullion , who in order to save himself from blame tell the whole story .
` That accurse bird , ' say the Cook ; ` it will end by get me send away .
Come , some of you , and hide yourselves , and if it come again , catch it and wring it neck . '
He spit a third goose , light a huge fire , and seat himself by it .
The bird appear a third time , and say : ` Good-morning , my fine Cook . '
` Good-morning , lovely Golden Bird , ' reply the Cook , a if nothing have happen , and at the moment that the Canary be begin , ' I pray Heaven that it may send , ' a scullion who be hide outside rush out and shut the shutter .
The bird fly into the kitchen .
Then all the cook and scullion spring after it , knock at it with their apron .
At length one of them catch it just at the very moment that Tubby enter the kitchen , wave his sceptre .
He have come to see for himself why the goose have never make it appearance .
The Scullion stop at once , just a he be about to wring the Canary 's neck .
XV ` Will some one be kind enough to tell me the meaning of all this ? '
cry the Lord of Avesnes .
` Your Excellency , it be the bird , ' reply the Scullion , and he place it in his hand .
` Nonsense !
What a lovely bird ! '
say Tubby , and in stroke it head he touch a pin that be stick between it feather .
He pull it out , and lo !
the Canary at once become a beautiful girl with a golden skin who jump lightly to the ground .
` Gracious !
what a pretty girl ! '
say Tubby .
` Father !
it be she !
it be Zizi ! '
exclaim Desire , who enter at this moment .
And he take her in his arm , cry : ` My darling Zizi , how happy I be to see you once more ! '
` Well , and the other one ? '
ask Tubby .
The other one be steal quietly to the door .
` Stop her !
call Tubby .
` We will judge her cause at once . '
And he seat himself solemnly on the oven , and condemn Titty to be burn alive .
After which the lord and cook form themselves in line , and Tubby betroth Desire to Zizi .
XVI The marriage take place a few day later .
All the boy in the country side be there , arm with wooden sword , and decorate with epaulet make of gilt paper .
Zizi obtain Titty 's pardon , and she be send back to the brick-fields , follow and hoot at by all the boy .
And this be why to-day the country boys always throw stone at a titmouse .
On the evening of the wedding-day all the larder , cellar , cupboard and table of the people , whether rich or poor , be load a if by enchantment with bread , wine , beer , cake and tart , roast lark , and even geese , so that Tubby could not complain any more that his son have marry Famine .
Since that time there have always be plenty to eat in that country , and since that time , too , you see in the midst of the fair-haired blue-eyed woman of Flanders a few beautiful girl , whose eye be black and whose skin be the colour of gold .
They be the descendant of Zizi .
-LRB- 21 -RRB- -LRB- 21 -RRB- Charles Deulin , Contes du Roi Gambrinus .
THE TWELVE BROTHERS THERE be once upon a time a King and a Queen who live happily together , and they have twelve child , all of whom be boy .
One day the King say to his wife : ` If our thirteenth child be a girl , all her twelve brother must die , so that she may be very rich and the kingdom hers alone . '
Then he order twelve coffin to be make , and fill them with shaving , and place a little pillow in each .
These he put away in an empty room , and , give the key to his wife , he bid her tell no one of it .
The Queen grieve over the sad fate of her son and refuse to be comfort , so much so that the young boy , who be always with her , and whom she have christen Benjamin , say to her one day : ` Dear mother , why be you so sad ? '
` My child , ' she answer , ' I may not tell you the reason . '
But he leave her no peace , till she go and unlock the room and show him the twelve coffin fill with shaving , and with the little pillow lay in each .
Then she say : ` My dearest Benjamin , your father have have these coffin make for you and your eleven brother , because if I bring a girl into the world you be all to be kill and bury in them . '
She weep bitterly a she speak , but her son comfort her and say : ` Do n't cry , dear mother ; we 'll manage to escape somehow , and will fly for our life . '
` Yes , ' reply his mother , ` that be what you must do -- go with your eleven brother out into the wood , and let one of you always sit on the high tree you can find , keep watch on the tower of the castle .
If I give birth to a little son I will wave a white flag , and then you may safely return ; but if I give birth to a little daughter I will wave a red flag , which will warn you to fly away as quickly a you can , and may the kind Heaven have pity on you .
Every night I will get up and pray for you , in winter that you may always have a fire to warm yourselves by , and in summer that you may not languish in the heat . '
Then she bless her son and they set out into the wood .
They find a very high oak tree , and there they sit , turn about , keep their eye always fix on the castle tower .
On the twelfth day , when the turn come to Benjamin , he notice a flag waving in the air , but ala !
it be not white , but blood red , the sign which tell them they must all die .
When the brother hear this they be very angry , and say : ` Shall we forsooth suffer death for the sake of a wretched girl ?
Let u swear vengeance , and vow that wherever and whenever we shall meet one of her sex , she shall die at our hand . '
Then they go their way deeper into the wood , and in the middle of it , where it be thick and dark , they come upon a little enchanted house which stand empty .
` Here , ' they say , ` let u take up our abode , and you , Benjamin , you be the young and weak , you shall stay at home and keep house for u ; we others will go out and fetch food . '
So they go forth into the wood , and shot hare and roe-deer , bird and wood-pigeons , and any other game they come across .
They always bring their spoil home to Benjamin , who soon learn to make them into dainty dish .
So they live for ten year in this little house , and the time slip merrily away .
In the meantime their little sister at home be grow up quickly .
She be kind-hearted and of a fair countenance , and she have a gold star right in the middle of her forehead .
One day a big washing be go on at the palace , and the girl look down from her window saw twelve men 's shirt hang up to dry , and ask her mother : ` Who in the world do these shirt belong to ?
Surely they be far too small for my father ? '
And the Queen answer sadly : ` Dear child , they belong to your twelve brother . '
` But where be my twelve brother ? '
say the girl . '
I have never even heard of them . '
` Heaven alone know in what part of the wide world they be wander , ' reply her mother .
Then she take the girl and open the locked-up room ; she show her the twelve coffin fill with shaving , and with the little pillow lay in each .
` These coffin , ' she say , ` be intend for your brother , but they steal secretly away before you be bear . '
Then she to tell her all that have happen , and when she have finish her daughter say : ` Do not cry , dearest mother ; I will go and seek my brother till I find them . '
So she take the twelve shirt and go on straight into the middle of the big wood .
She walk all day long , and come in the evening to the little enchanted house .
She step in and find a youth who , marvel at her beauty , at the royal rob she wear , and at the golden star on her forehead , ask her where she come from and whither she be go . '
I be a Princess , ' she answer , ` and be seek for my twelve brother .
I mean to wander as far a the blue sky stretch over the earth till I find them . '
Then she show him the twelve shirt which she have take with her , and Benjamin saw that it must be his sister , and say : ' I be Benjamin , your young brother . '
So they weep for joy , and kiss and hug each other again and again .
After a time Benjamin say : ` Dear sister , there be still a little difficulty , for we have all agree that any girl we meet should die at our hand , because it be for the sake of a girl that we have to leave our kingdom . '
` But , ' she reply , ' I will gladly die if by that mean I can restore my twelve brother to their own . '
` No , ' he answer , ` there be no need for that ; only go and hide under that tub till our eleven brother come in , and I 'll soon make matter right with them . '
She do a she be bid , and soon the others come home from the chase and sit down to supper .
` Well , Benjamin , what 's the news ? '
they ask .
But he reply , ' I like that ; have you nothing to tell me ? '
` No , ' they answer .
Then he say : ` Well , now , you 've be out in the wood all the day and I 've stay quietly at home , and all the same I know more than you do . '
` Then tell u , ' they cry .
But he answer : ` Only on condition that you promise faithfully that the first girl we meet shall not be kill . '
` She shall be spar , ' they promise , ` only tell u the news . '
Then Benjamin say : ` Our sister be here ! '
and he lift up the tub and the Princess step forward , with her royal robe and with the golden star on her forehead , look so lovely and sweet and charm that they all fell in love with her on the spot .
They arrange that she should stay at home with Benjamin and help him in the house work , while the rest of the brother go out into the wood and shot hare and roe-deer , bird and wood-pigeons .
And Benjamin and his sister cook their meal for them .
She gather herb to cook the vegetable in , fetch the wood , and watch the pot on the fire , and always when her eleven brother return she have their supper ready for them .
Besides this , she keep the house in order , tidy all the room , and make herself so generally useful that her brother be delight , and they all live happily together .
One day the two at home prepare a fine feast , and when they be all assemble they sit down and ate and drank and make merry .
Now there be a little garden round the enchanted house , in which grow twelve tall lily .
The girl , wish to please her brother , pluck the twelve flower , mean to present one to each of them a they sit at supper .
But hardly have she pluck the flower when her brother be turn into twelve raven , who fly croak over the wood , and the house and garden vanished also .
So the poor girl find herself leave all alone in the wood , and a she look round her she notice an old woman stand close beside her , who say : ` My child , what have you do ?
Why do n't you leave the flower alone ?
They be your twelve brother .
Now they be change for ever into raven . '
The girl ask , sob : ` Is there no mean of set them free ? '
` No , ' say the old woman , ` there be only one way in the whole world , and that be so difficult that you wo n't free them by it , for you would have to be dumb and not laugh for seven year , and if you speak a single word , though but an hour be want to the time , your silence would all have be in vain , and that one word would slay your brother . '
Then the girl say to herself : ` If that be all I be quite sure I can free my brother . '
So she search for a high tree , and when she have find one she climb up it and spin all day long , never laugh or speak one word .
Now it happen one day that a King who be hunt in the wood have a large greyhound , who run sniff to the tree on which the girl sit , and jump round it , yelp and bark furiously .
The King 's attention be attract , and when he look up and behold the beautiful Princess with the golden star on her forehead , he be so enchanted by her beauty that he ask her on the spot to be his wife .
She give no answer , but nod slightly with her head .
Then he climb up the tree himself , lift her down , put her on his horse and bore her home to his palace .
The marriage be celebrate with much pomp and ceremony , but the bride neither speak nor laugh .
When they have live a few year happily together , the King 's mother , who be a wicked old woman , begin to slander the young Queen , and say to the King : ` She be only a low-born beggar maid that you have marry ; who know what mischief she be up to ?
If she be deaf and ca n't speak , she might at least laugh ; depend upon it , those who do n't laugh have a bad conscience . '
At first the King pay no heed to her word , but the old woman harp so long on the subject , and accuse the young Queen of so many bad thing , that at last he let himself be talk over , and condemn his beautiful wife to death .
So a great fire be light in the courtyard of the palace , where she be to be burn , and the King watch the proceeding from an upper window , cry bitterly the while , for he still love his wife dearly .
But just a she have be bind to the stake , and the flame be lick her garment with their red tongue , the very last moment of the seven year have come .
Then a sudden rushing sound be hear in the air , and twelve raven be see fly overhead .
They swoop downwards , and as soon a they touch the ground they turn into her twelve brother , and she know that she have free them .
They quench the flame and put out the fire , and , unbind their dear sister from the stake , they kiss and hug her again and again .
And now that she be able to open her mouth and speak , she tell the King why she have be dumb and not able to laugh .
The King rejoice greatly when he hear she be innocent , and they all live happily ever afterwards .
-LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- Grimm .
RAPUNZEL ONCE upon a time there live a man and his wife who be very unhappy because they have no child .
These good people have a little window at the back of their house , which look into the most lovely garden , full of all manner of beautiful flower and vegetable ; but the garden be surround by a high wall , and no one dare to enter it , for it belong to a witch of great power , who be fear by the whole world .
One day the woman stand at the window overlook the garden , and saw there a bed full of the fine rampion : the leaf look so fresh and green that she long to eat them .
The desire grow day by day , and just because she know she could n't possibly get any , she pin away and become quite pale and wretched .
Then her husband grow alarmed and say : ` What ail you , dear wife ? '
` Oh , ' she answer , ` if I do n't get some rampion to eat out of the garden behind the house , I know I shall die . '
The man , who love her dearly , think to himself , ` Come !
rather than let your wife die you shall fetch her some rampion , no matter the cost . '
So at dusk he climb over the wall into the witch 's garden , and , hastily gather a handful of rampion leaf , he return with them to his wife .
She make them into a salad , which taste so good that her longing for the forbidden food be great than ever .
If she be to know any peace of mind , there be nothing for it but that her husband should climb over the garden wall again , and fetch her some more .
So at dusk over he get , but when he reach the other side he draw back in terror , for there , stand before him , be the old witch .
` How dare you , ' she say , with a wrathful glance , ` climb into my garden and steal my rampion like a common thief ?
You shall suffer for your foolhardiness . '
` Oh ! '
he implore , ` pardon my presumption ; necessity alone drive me to the deed .
My wife saw your rampion from her window , and conceive such a desire for it that she would certainly have die if her wish have not be gratify . '
Then the Witch 's anger be a little appeased , and she say : ` If it 's a you say , you may take a much rampion away with you a you like , but on one condition only -- that you give me the child your wife will shortly bring into the world .
All shall go well with it , and I will look after it like a mother . '
The man in his terror agree to everything she ask , and as soon a the child be bear the Witch appear , and have give it the name of Rapunzel , which be the same a rampion , she carry it off with her .
Rapunzel be the most beautiful child under the sun .
When she be twelve year old the Witch shut her up in a tower , in the middle of a great wood , and the tower have neither stair nor door , only high up at the very top a small window .
When the old Witch want to get in she stand underneath and call out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' for Rapunzel have wonderful long hair , and it be as fine a spun gold .
Whenever she hear the Witch 's voice she unloose her plait , and let her hair fall down out of the window about twenty yard below , and the old Witch climb up by it .
After they have live like this for a few year , it happen one day that a Prince be rid through the wood and pass by the tower .
As he draw near it he hear someone sing so sweetly that he stand still spell-bound , and listen .
It be Rapunzel in her loneliness try to while away the time by let her sweet voice ring out into the wood .
The Prince long to see the owner of the voice , but he seek in vain for a door in the tower .
He ride home , but he be so haunt by the song he have heard that he return every day to the wood and listen .
One day , when he be stand thus behind a tree , he saw the old Witch approach and hear her call out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair . '
Then Rapunzel let down her plait , and the Witch climb up by them .
` So that 's the staircase , be it ? '
say the Prince .
` Then I too will climb it and try my luck . '
So on the following day , at dusk , he go to the foot of the tower and cry : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' and as soon a she have let it down the Prince climb up .
At first Rapunzel be terribly frighten when a man come in , for she have never see one before ; but the Prince speak to her so kindly , and tell her at once that his heart have be so touched by her singing , that he felt he should know no peace of mind till he have see her .
Very soon Rapunzel forget her fear , and when he ask her to marry him she consent at once .
` For , ' she think , ` he be young and handsome , and I 'll certainly be happy with him than with the old Witch . '
So she put her hand in his and say : ` Yes , I will gladly go with you , only how be I to get down out of the tower ?
Every time you come to see me you must bring a skein of silk with you , and I will make a ladder of them , and when it be finish I will climb down by it , and you will take me away on your horse . '
They arrange that till the ladder be ready , he be to come to her every evening , because the old woman be with her during the day .
The old Witch , of course , know nothing of what be go on , till one day Rapunzel , not think of what she be about , turn to the Witch and say : ` How be it , good mother , that you be so much hard to pull up than the young Prince ?
He be always with me in a moment . '
` Oh !
you wicked child , ' cry the Witch .
` What be this I hear ?
I think I have hide you safely from the whole world , and in spite of it you have manage to deceive me . '
In her wrath she seize Rapunzel 's beautiful hair , wound it round and round her left hand , and then grasp a pair of scissors in her right , snip snap , off it come , and the beautiful plait lay on the ground .
And , bad than this , she be so hard-hearted that she take Rapunzel to a lonely desert place , and there leave her to live in loneliness and misery .
But on the evening of the day in which she have drive poor Rapunzel away , the Witch fasten the plait on to a hook in the window , and when the Prince come and call out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' she let them down , and the Prince climb up as usual , but instead of his beloved Rapunzel he find the old Witch , who fix her evil , glitter eye on him , and cry mockingly : ` Ah , ah !
you think to find your lady love , but the pretty bird have fly and it song be dumb ; the cat catch it , and will scratch out your eye too .
Rapunzel be lose to you for ever -- you will never see her more . '
The Prince be beside himself with grief , and in his despair he jump right down from the tower , and , though he escape with his life , the thorn among which he fell pierce his eye out .
Then he wander , blind and miserable , through the wood , eat nothing but root and berry , and weep and lament the loss of his lovely bride .
So he wander about for some year , a wretched and unhappy a he could well be , and at last he come to the desert place where Rapunzel be live .
Of a sudden he hear a voice which seem strangely familiar to him .
He walk eagerly in the direction of the sound , and when he be quite close , Rapunzel recognise him and fell on his neck and wept .
But two of her tear touch his eye , and in a moment they become quite clear again , and he saw as well a he have ever do .
Then he lead her to his kingdom , where they be receive and welcome with great joy , and they live happily ever after .
-LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- Grimm .
THE NETTLE SPINNER I ONCE upon a time there live at Quesnoy , in Flanders , a great lord whose name be Burchard , but whom the country people call Burchard the Wolf .
Now Burchard have such a wicked , cruel heart , that it be whispered how he use to harness his peasant to the plough , and force them by blow from his whip to till his land with naked foot .
His wife , on the other hand , be always tender and pitiful to the poor and miserable .
Every time that she hear of another misdeed of her husband 's she secretly go to repair the evil , which cause her name to be bless throughout the whole country-side .
This Countess be adore as much a the Count be hat .
II One day when he be out hunt the Count pass through a forest , and at the door of a lonely cottage he saw a beautiful girl spin hemp .
` What be your name ? '
he ask her .
` Renelde , my lord . '
` You must get tire of stay in such a lonely place ? ' '
I be accustom to it , my lord , and I never get tire of it . '
` That may be so ; but come to the castle , and I will make you lady 's maid to the Countess . ' '
I can not do that , my lord .
I have to look after my grandmother , who be very helpless . '
` Come to the castle , I tell you .
I shall expect you this evening , ' and he go on his way .
But Renelde , who be betroth to a young wood-cutter call Guilbert , have no intention of obey the Count , and she have , besides , to take care of her grandmother .
Three day later the Count again pass by .
` Why do n't you come ? '
he ask the pretty spinner . '
I tell you , my lord , that I have to look after my grandmother . '
` Come to-morrow , and I will make you lady-in-waiting to the Countess , ' and he go on his way .
This offer produce no more effect than the other , and Renelde do not go to the castle .
` If you will only come , ' say the Count to her when next he ride by , ' I will send away the Countess , and will marry you . '
But two year before , when Renelde 's mother be die of a long illness , the Countess have not forget them , but have give help when they sorely need it .
So even if the Count have really wish to marry Renelde , she would always have refuse .
III Some week pass before Burchard appear again .
Renelde hop she have get rid of him , when one day he stop at the door , his duck-gun under his arm and his game-bag on his shoulder .
This time Renelde be spin not hemp , but flax .
` What be you spin ? '
he ask in a rough voice .
` My wedding shift , my lord . '
` You be go to be marry , then ? '
` Yes , my lord , by your leave . '
For at that time no peasant could marry without the leave of his master . '
I will give you leave on one condition .
Do you see those tall nettle that grow on the tomb in the churchyard ?
Go and gather them , and spin them into two fine shift .
One shall be your bridal shift , and the other shall be my shroud .
For you shall be marry the day that I be lay in my grave . '
And the Count turn away with a mocking laugh .
Renelde tremble .
Never in all Locquignol have such a thing be heard of a the spinning of nettle .
And besides , the Count seem make of iron and be very proud of his strength , often boast that he should live to be a hundred .
Every evening , when his work be do , Guilbert come to visit his future bride .
This evening he come as usual , and Renelde tell him what Burchard have say .
` Would you like me to watch for the Wolf , and split his skull with a blow from my axe ? '
` No , ' reply Renelde , ` there must be no blood on my bridal bouquet .
And then we must not hurt the Count .
Remember how good the Countess be to my mother . '
An old , old woman now speak : she be the mother of Renelde 's grandmother , and be more than ninety year old .
All day long she sit in her chair nod her head and never say a word .
` My child , ' she say , ` all the year that I have live in the world , I have never hear of a shift spun from nettle .
But what God command , man can do .
Why should not Renelde try it ? '
IV Renelde do try , and to her great surprise the nettle when crush and prepare give a good thread , soft and light and firm .
Very soon she have spin the first shift , which be for her own wedding .
She weave and cut it out at once , hop that the Count would not force her to begin the other .
Just a she have finish sew it , Burchard the Wolf pass by .
` Well , ' say he , ` how be the shift get on ? '
` Here , my lord , be my wedding garment , ' answer Renelde , show him the shift , which be the fine and white ever see .
The Count grow pale , but he reply roughly , ` Very good .
Now begin the other . '
The spinner set to work .
As the Count return to the castle , a cold shiver pass over him , and he felt , a the saying be , that some one be walk over his grave .
He try to eat his supper , but could not ; he go to bed shake with fever .
But he do not sleep , and in the morning could not manage to rise .
This sudden illness , which every instant become bad , make him very uneasy .
No doubt Renelde 's spinning-wheel knew all about it .
Was it not necessary that his body , as well a his shroud , should be ready for the burial ?
The first thing Burchard do be to send to Renelde and to stop her wheel .
Renelde obey , and that even Guilbert ask her : ` Has the Count give his consent to our marriage ? '
` No , ' say Renelde .
` Continue your work , sweetheart .
It be the only way of gain it .
You know he tell you so himself . '
V The following morning , as soon a she have put the house in order , the girl sit down to spin .
Two hour after there arrive some soldier , and when they saw her spin they seize her , tie her arm and leg , and carry her to the bank of the river , which be swell by the late rain .
When they reach the bank they fling her in , and watch her sink , after which they leave her .
But Renelde rise to the surface , and though she could not swim she struggle to land .
Directly she get home she sit down and begin to spin .
Again come the two soldier to the cottage and seize the girl , carry her to the river bank , tie a stone to her neck and flung her into the water .
The moment their back be turn the stone untie itself .
Renelde wad the ford , return to the hut , and sit down to spin .
This time the Count resolve to go to Locquignol himself ; but , a he be very weak and unable to walk , he have himself borne in a litter .
And still the spinner spun .
When he saw her he fire a shot at her , a he would have fire at a wild beast .
The bullet rebound without harm the spinner , who still spin on .
Burchard fell into such a violent rage that it nearly kill him .
He break the wheel into a thousand piece , and then fell faint on the ground .
He be carry back to the castle , unconscious .
The next day the wheel be mend , and the spinner sit down to spin .
Feeling that while she be spin he be die , the Count order that her hand should be tie , and that they should not lose sight of her for one instant .
But the guard fell asleep , the bond loose themselves , and the spinner spun on .
Burchard have every nettle root up for three league round .
Scarcely have they be tear from the soil when they sow themselves afresh , and grow a you be look at them .
They spring up even in the well-trodden floor of the cottage , and as fast a they be uproot the distaff gather to itself a supply of nettle , crush , prepared , and ready for spin .
And every day Burchard grow bad , and watch his end approaching .
VI Moved by pity for her husband , the Countess at last find out the cause of his illness , and entreat him to allow himself to be cure .
But the Count in his pride refuse more than ever to give his consent to the marriage .
So the lady resolve to go without his knowledge to pray for mercy from the spinner , and in the name of Renelde 's dead mother she beseech her to spin no more .
Renelde give her promise , but in the evening Guilbert arrive at the cottage .
Seeing that the cloth be no farther advance than it be the evening before , he inquire the reason .
Renelde confess that the Countess have pray her not to let her husband die .
` Will he consent to our marriage ? '
` No . '
` Let him die then . '
` But what will the Countess say ? '
` The Countess will understand that it be not your fault ; the Count alone be guilty of his own death . '
` Let u wait a little .
Perhaps his heart may be soften . '
So they wait for one month , for two , for six , for a year .
The spinner spin no more .
The Count have cease to persecute her , but he still refuse his consent to the marriage .
Guilbert become impatient .
The poor girl love him with her whole soul , and she be more unhappy than she have be before , when Burchard be only torment her body .
` Let u have do with it , ' say Guilbert .
` Wait a little still , ' plead Renelde .
But the young man grow weary .
He come more rarely to Locquignol , and very soon he do not come at all .
Renelde felt a if her heart would break , but she hold firm .
One day she meet the Count .
She clasp her hand a if in prayer , and cry : ` My lord , have mercy ! '
Burchard the Wolf turn away his head and pass on .
She might have humble his pride have she go to her spinning-wheel again , but she do nothing of the sort .
Not long after she learn that Guilbert have leave the country .
He do not even come to say good-bye to her , but , all the same , she know the day and hour of his departure , and hide herself on the road to see him once more .
When she come in she put her silent wheel into a corner , and cry for three day and three night .
VII So another year go by .
Then the Count fell ill , and the Countess suppose that Renelde , weary of wait , have begin her spin anew ; but when she come to the cottage to see , she find the wheel silent .
However , the Count grow bad and bad till he be give up by the doctor .
The passing bell be rung , and he lay expect Death to come for him .
But Death be not so near a the doctor think , and still he linger .
He seem in a desperate condition , but he get neither good nor bad .
He could neither live nor die ; he suffer horribly , and call loudly on Death to put an end to his pain .
In this extremity he remember what he have tell the little spinner long ago .
If Death be so slow in come , it be because he be not ready to follow him , have no shroud for his burial .
He send to fetch Renelde , place her by his bedside , and order her at once to go on spin his shroud .
Hardly have the spinner begin to work when the Count begin to feel his pain grow less .
Then at last his heart melt ; he be sorry for all the evil he have do out of pride , and implore Renelde to forgive him .
So Renelde forgive him , and go on spin night and day .
When the thread of the nettle be spin she weave it with her shuttle , and then cut the shroud and begin to sew it .
And a before , when she sew the Count felt his pain grow less , and the life sinking within him , and when the needle make the last stitch he give his last sigh .
VIII At the same hour Guilbert return to the country , and , a he have never cease to love Renelde , he marry her eight day later .
He have lose two year of happiness , but comfort himself with think that his wife be a clever spinner , and , what be much more rare , a brave and good woman .
-LRB- 24 -RRB- -LRB- 24 -RRB- Ch .
Denlin .
FARMER WEATHERBEARD THERE be once upon a time a man and a woman who have an only son , and he be call Jack .
The woman think that it be his duty to go out to service , and tell her husband that he be to take him somewhere .
` You must get him such a good place that he will become master of all master , ' she say , and then she put some food and a roll of tobacco into a bag for them .
Well , they go to a great many master , but all say that they could make the lad as good a they be themselves , but good than that they could not make him .
When the man come home to the old woman with this answer , she say , ' I shall be equally well pleased whatever you do with him ; but this I do say , that you be to have him make a master over all master . '
Then she once more put some food and a roll of tobacco into the bag , and the man and his son have to set out again .
When they have walk some distance they get upon the ice , and there they meet a man in a carriage who be drive a black horse .
` Where be you go ? '
he say . '
I have to go and get my son apprentice to someone who will be able to teach him a trade , for my old woman come of such well-to-do folk that she insist on his be teach to be master of all master , ' say the man .
` We be not ill meet , then , ' say the man who be drive , ` for I be the kind of man who can do that , and I be just look out for such an apprentice .
Get up behind with you , ' he say to the boy , and off the horse go with them straight up into the air .
` No , no , wait a little ! '
scream the father of the boy . '
I ought to know what your name be and where you live . '
` Oh , I be at home both in the north and the south and the east and the west , and I be call Farmer Weatherbeard , ' say the master .
` You may come here again in a year 's time , and then I will tell you if the lad suit me . '
And then they set off again and be go .
When the man get home the old woman inquire what have become of the son .
` Ah !
Heaven only know what have become of him ! '
say the man .
` They go up aloft . '
And then he tell her what have happen .
But when the woman heard that , and find that the man do not at all know either when their son would be out of his apprentice-ship , or where he have go , she pack him off again to find out , and give him a bag of food and a roll of tobacco to take away with him .
When he have walk for some time he come to a great wood , and it stretch before him all day long a he go on , and when night begin to fall he saw a great light , and go towards it .
After a long , long time he come to a small hut at the foot of a rock , outside which an old woman be stand draw water up from a well with her nose , it be so long .
` Good-evening , mother , ' say the man .
` Good-evening to you too , ' say the old woman .
` No one have call me mother this hundred year . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
say the man .
` No , ' say the old woman .
But the man take out his roll of tobacco , light a little of it , and then give her a whiff .
Then she be so delighted that she begin to dance , and thus the man get leave to stay the night there .
It be not long before he ask about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She say that she know nothing about him , but that she rule over all the four-footed beast , and some of them might know him .
So she gather them all together by blow a whistle which she have , and question them , but there be not one of them which know anything about Farmer Weatherbeard .
` Well , ' say the old woman , ` there be three of u sister ; it may be that one of the other two know where he be to be find .
You shall have the loan of my horse and carriage , and then you will get there by night ; but her house be three hundred mile off , go the near way you will . '
The man set out and get there at night .
When he arrive , this old woman also be stand draw water out of the well with her nose .
` Good-evening , mother , ' say the man .
` Good-evening to you , ' say the old woman .
` No one have ever call me mother this hundred year . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
say the man .
` No , ' say the old woman .
Then he take out the roll of tobacco , take a whiff , and give the old woman some snuff on the back of her hand .
Then she be so delighted that she begin to dance , and the man get leave to stay all night .
It be not long before he begin to ask about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She know nothing about him , but she rule over all the fish , she say , and perhaps some of them might know something .
So she gather them all together by blow a whistle which she have , and question them , but there be not one of them which know anything about Farmer Weatherbeard .
` Well , ' say the old woman , ' I have another sister ; perhaps she may know something about him .
She live six hundred mile off , but you shall have my horse and carriage , and then you will get there by nightfall . '
So the man set off and he get there by nightfall .
The old woman be stand rake the fire , and she be do it with her nose , so long it be .
` Good-evening , mother , ' say the man .
` Good-evening to you , ' say the old woman .
` No one have call me mother this hundred year . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
say the man .
` No , ' say the old woman .
But the man pull out his roll of tobacco again , and fill his pipe with some of it , and give the old woman enough snuff to cover the back of her hand .
Then she be so delighted that she begin to dance , and the man get leave to stay in her house .
It be not long before he ask about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She know nothing at all about him , she say , but she govern all the bird ; and she gather them together with her whistle .
When she question them all , the eagle be not there , but it come soon afterwards , and when ask , it say that it have just come from Farmer Weatherbeard 's .
Then the old woman say that it be to guide the man to him .
But the eagle would have something to eat first , and then it want to wait until the next day , for it be so tired with the long journey that it be scarcely able to rise from the earth .
When the eagle have have plenty of food and rest , the old woman pluck a feather out of it tail , and set the man in the feather 's place , and then the bird fly away with him , but they do not get to Farmer Weatherbeard 's before midnight .
When they get there the Eagle say : ` There be a great many dead body lie outside the door , but you must not concern yourself about them .
The people who be inside the house be all so sound asleep that it will not be easy to awake them ; but you must go straight to the table-drawer , and take out three bit of bread , and if you hear anyone snoring , pluck three feather from his head ; he will not waken for that . '
The man do this ; when he have get the bit of bread he first pluck out one feather .
` Oof ! '
scream Farmer Weatherbeard .
So the man pluck out another , and then Farmer Weatherbeard shriek ` Oof ! '
again ; but when the man have pluck the third , Farmer Weatherbeard scream so loudly that the man think that brick and mortar would be rent in twain , but for all that he go on sleeping .
And now the Eagle tell the man what he be to do next , and he do it .
He go to the stable door , and there he stumble against a hard stone , which he pick up , and beneath it lay three splinter of wood , which he also pick up .
He knock at the stable door and it open at once .
He throw down the three little bit of bread and a hare come out and eat them .
He catch the hare .
Then the Eagle tell him to pluck three feather out of it tail , and put in the hare , the stone , the splinter of wood and himself instead of them , and then he would be able to carry them all home .
When the Eagle have fly a long way it alight on a stone .
` Do you see anything ? '
it ask .
` Yes ; I see a flock of crow come fly after u , ' say the man .
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' say the Eagle , and off it set .
In a short time it ask again , ` Do you see anything now ? '
` Yes ; now the crow be close behind u , ' say the man .
` Then throw down the three feather which you pluck out of his head , ' say the Eagle .
So the man do this , and no sooner have he fling them down than the feather become a flock of raven , which chase the crow home again .
Then the Eagle fly on much farther with the man , but at length it alight on a stone for a while .
` Do you see anything ? '
it say . '
I be not quite certain , ' say the man , ` but I think I see something come in the far distance . '
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' say the Eagle , and away it go .
` Do you see anything now ? '
it say , after some time have go by .
` Yes ; now they be close behind u , ' say the man .
` Then throw down the splinter of wood which you take from beneath the gray stone by the stable door , ' say the Eagle .
The man do this , and no sooner have he fling them down than they grow up into a great thick wood , and Farmer Weatherbeard have to go home for an axe to cut his way through it .
So the Eagle fly on a long , long way , but then it grow tired and sit down on a fir tree .
` Do you see anything ? '
it ask .
` Yes ; I be not quite certain , ' say the man , ` but I think I can catch a glimpse of something far , far away . '
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' say the Eagle , and it set off again .
` Do you see anything now ? '
it say after some time have go by .
` Yes ; he be close behind u now , ' say the man .
` Then you must fling down the great stone which you take away from the stable door , ' say the Eagle .
The man do so , and it turn into a great high mountain of stone , which Farmer Weatherbeard have to break his way through before he could follow them .
But when he have get to the middle of the mountain he break one of his leg , so he have to go home to get it put right .
While he be do this the Eagle fly off to the man 's home with him , and with the hare , and when they have get home the man go to the churchyard , and have some Christian earth lay upon the hare , and then it turn into his son Jack .
When the time come for the fair the youth turn himself into a light-coloured horse , and bid his father go to the market with him .
` If anyone should come who want to buy me , ' say he , ` you be to tell him that you want a hundred dollar for me ; but you must not forget to take off the halter , for if you do I shall never be able to get away from Farmer Weatherbeard , for he be the man who will come and bargain for me . '
And thus it happen .
A horse-dealer come who have a great fancy to bargain for the horse , and the man get a hundred dollar for it , but when the bargain be make , and Jack 's father have get the money , the horse-dealer want to have the halter .
` That be no part of our bargain , ' say the man , ` and the halter you shall not have , for I have other horse which I shall have to sell . '
So each of them go his way .
But the horse dealer have not get very far with Jack before he resume his own form again , and when the man get home he be sit on the bench by the stove .
The next day he change himself into a brown horse and tell his father that he be to set off to market with him .
` If a man should come who want to buy me , ' say Jack , ` you be to tell him that you want two hundred dollar , for that he will give , and treat you besides ; but whatsoever you drink , and whatsoever you do , do n't forget to take the halter off me , or you will never see me more . '
And thus it happen .
The man get his two hundred dollar for the horse , and be treat as well , and when they part from each other it be just as much a he could do to remember to take off the halter .
But the buyer have not get far on his way before the youth take his own form again , and when the man reach home Jack be already sit on the bench by the stove .
On the third day all happen in the same way .
The youth change himself into a great black horse , and tell his father that if a man come and offer him three hundred dollar , and treat him well and handsomely into the bargain , he be to sell him , but whatsoever he do , or how much soever he drink , he must not forget to take off the halter , or else he himself would never get away from Farmer Weatherbeard as long a he live .
` No , ' say the man , ' I will not forget . '
When he get to the market , he receive the three hundred dollar , but Farmer Weatherbeard treat him so handsomely that he quite forget to take off the halter ; so Farmer Weatherbeard go away with the horse .
When he have get some distance he have to go into an inn to get some more brandy ; so he set a barrel full of red-hot nail under his horse 's nose , and a trough fill with oat beneath it tail , and then he tie the halter fast to a hook and go away into the inn .
So the horse stand there stamp , and kicking , and snorting , and rearing , and out come a girl who think it a sin and a shame to treat a horse so ill .
` Ah , poor creature , what a master you must have to treat you thus ! '
she say , and push the halter off the hook so that the horse might turn round and eat the oat . '
I be here ! '
shriek Farmer Weatherbeard , rush out of door .
But the horse have already shake off the halter and flung himself into a goose-pond , where he change himself into a little fish .
Farmer Weatherbeard go after him , and change himself into a great pike .
So Jack turn himself into a dove , and Farmer Weatherbeard turn himself into a hawk , and fly after the dove and strike it .
But a Princess be stand at a window in the King 's palace watch the struggle .
` If thou didst but know as much a I know , thou wouldst fly in to me through the window , ' say the Princess to the dove .
So the dove come fly in through the window and change itself into Jack again , and tell her all a it have happen .
` Change thyself into a gold ring , and set thyself on my finger , ' say the Princess .
` No , that will not do , ' say Jack , ` for then Farmer Weatherbeard will make the King fall sick , and there will be no one who can make him well again before Farmer Weatherbeard come and cure him , and for that he will demand the gold ring . ' '
I will say that it be my mother 's , and that I will not part with it , ' say the Princess .
So Jack change himself into a gold ring , and set himself on the Princess 's finger , and Farmer Weatherbeard could not get at him there .
But then all that the youth have foretell come to pass .
The King become ill , and there be no doctor who could cure him till Farmer Weatherbeard arrive , and he demand the ring which be on the Princess 's finger a a reward .
So the King send a messenger to the Princess for the ring .
She , however , refuse to part with it , because she have inherit it from her mother .
When the King be inform of this he fell into a rage , and say that he would have the ring , let her have inherit it from whom she might .
` Well , it 's of no use to be angry about it , ' say the Princess , ` for I ca n't get it off .
If you want the ring you will have to take the finger too ! ' '
I will try , and then the ring will very soon come off , ' say Farmer Weatherbeard .
` No , thank you , I will try myself , ' say the Princess , and she go away to the fireplace and put some ash on the ring .
So the ring come off and be lose among the ash .
Farmer Weatherbeard change himself into a hare , which scratch and scrap about in the fireplace after the ring until the ash be up to it ear .
But Jack change himself into a fox , and bite the hare 's head off , and if Farmer Weatherbeard be possess by the evil one all be now over with him .
-LRB- 25 -RRB- -LRB- 25 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
MOTHER HOLLE ONCE upon a time there be a widow who have two daughter ; one of them be pretty and clever , and the other ugly and lazy .
But a the ugly one be her own daughter , she like her far the best of the two , and the pretty one have to do all the work of the house , and be in fact the regular maid of all work .
Every day she have to sit by a well on the high road , and spin till her finger be so sore that they often bleed .
One day some drop of blood fell on her spindle , so she dip it into the well meaning to wash it , but , a luck would have it , it drop from her hand and fell right in .
She run weep to her stepmother , and tell her what have happen , but she scold her harshly , and be so merciless in her anger that she say : ` Well , since you 've drop the spindle down , you must just go after it yourself , and do n't let me see your face again until you bring it with you . '
Then the poor girl return to the well , and not know what she be about , in the despair and misery of her heart she spring into the well and sank to the bottom .
For a time she lose all consciousness , and when she come to herself again she be lie in a lovely meadow , with the sun shin brightly overhead , and a thousand flower bloom at her foot .
She rise up and wander through this enchanted place , till she come to a baker 's oven full of bread , and the bread call out to her a she pass : ` Oh !
take me out , take me out , or I shall be burn to a cinder .
I be quite do enough . '
So she step up quickly to the oven and take out all the loaf one after the other .
Then she go on a little farther and come to a tree laden with beautiful rosy-cheeked apple , and a she pass by it call out : ` Oh I shake me , shake me , my apple be all quite ripe . '
She do a she be ask , and shake the tree till the apple fell like rain and none be leave hanging .
When she have gather them all up into a heap she go on her way again , and come at length to a little house , at the door of which sit an old woman .
The old dame have such large teeth that the girl felt frightened and want to run away , but the old woman call after her : ` What be you afraid of , dear child ?
Stay with me and be my little maid , and if you do your work well I will reward you handsomely ; but you must be very careful how you make my bed -- you must shake it well till the feather fly ; then people in the world below say it snow , for I be Mother Holle . '
She speak so kindly that the girl take heart and agree readily to enter her service .
She do her best to please the old woman , and shake her bed with such a will that the feather fly about like snow-flakes ; so she lead a very easy life , be never scold , and live on the fat of the land .
But after she have be some time with Mother Holle she grow sad and depressed , and at first she hardly know herself what be the matter .
At last she discover that she be homesick , so she go to Mother Holle and say : ' I know I be a thousand time well off here than I ever be in my life before , but notwithstanding , I have a great longing to go home , in spite of all your kindness to me .
I can remain with you no longer , but must return to my own people . '
` Your desire to go home plea me , ' say Mother Holle , ` and because you have serve me so faithfully , I will show you the way back into the world myself . '
So she take her by the hand and lead her to an open door , and a the girl pass through it there fell a heavy shower of gold all over her , till she be cover with it from top to toe .
` That 's a reward for be such a good little maid , ' say Mother Holle , and she give her the spindle too that have fall into the well .
Then she shut the door , and the girl find herself back in the world again , not far from her own house ; and when she come to the courtyard the old hen , who sit on the top of the wall , call out : ` Click , clock , clack , Our golden maid 's come back . '
Then she go in to her stepmother , and a she have return cover with gold she be welcome home .
She proceed to tell all that have happen to her , and when the mother hear how she have come by her rich , she be most anxious to secure the same luck for her own idle , ugly daughter ; so she tell her to sit at the well and spin .
In order to make her spindle bloody , she stick her hand into a hedge of thorn and prick her finger .
Then she throw the spindle into the well , and jump in herself after it .
Like her sister she come to the beautiful meadow , and follow the same path .
When she reach the baker 's oven the bread call out a before : ` Oh !
take me out , take me out , or I shall be burn to a cinder .
I be quite do enough . '
But the good-for-nothing girl answer : ' A pretty joke , indeed ; just a if I should dirty my hand for you ! '
And on she go .
Soon she come to the apple tree , which cry : ` Oh !
shake me , shake me , my apple be all quite ripe . '
` I 'll see myself far , ' she reply , ` one of them might fall on my head . '
And so she pursue her way .
When she come to Mother Holle 's house she be n't the least afraid , for she have be warn about her big teeth , and she readily agree to become her maid .
The first day she work very hard , and do all her mistress tell her , for she think of the gold she would give her ; but on the second day she begin to be lazy , and on the third she would n't even get up in the morning .
She do n't make Mother Holle 's bed a she ought to have do , and never shake it enough to make the feather fly .
So her mistress soon grow weary of her , and dismiss her , much to the lazy creature 's delight .
` For now , ' she think , ` the shower of golden rain will come . '
Mother Holle lead her to the same door a she have do her sister , but when she pass through it , instead of the gold rain a kettle full of pitch come shower over her .
` That 's a reward for your service , ' say Mother Holle , and she close the door behind her .
So the lazy girl come home all cover with pitch , and when the old hen on the top of the wall saw her , it call out : ` Click , clock , clack , Our dirty slut 's come back . '
But the pitch remain stick to her , and never as long a she live could it be get off .
-LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- Grimm .
MINNIKIN THERE be once upon a time a couple of needy folk who live in a wretched hut , in which there be nothing but black want ; so they have neither food to eat nor wood to burn .
But if they have next to nothing of all else they have the blessing of God so far a child be concern , and every year bring them one more .
The man be not overpleased at this .
He be always go about grumble and growling , and say that it seem to him that there might be such a thing a have too many of these good gift ; so shortly before another baby be bear he go away into the wood for some firewood , say that he do not want to see the new child ; he would hear him quite soon enough when he begin to squall for some food .
As soon a this baby be bear it begin to look about the room .
` Ah , my dear mother ! '
say he , ` give me some of my brother ' old clothes , and food enough for a few day , and I will go out into the world and seek my fortune , for , so far a I can see , you have child enough . '
` Heaven help thee , my son ! '
say the mother , ` that will never do ; thou art still far too little . '
But the little creature be determine to do it , and beg and pray so long that the mother be force to let him have some old rag , and tie up a little food for him , and then gaily and happily he go out into the world .
But almost before he be out of the house another boy be bear , and he too look about him , and say , ` Ah , my dear mother !
give me some of my brother ' old clothes , and food for some day , and then I will go out into the world and find my twin brother , for you have child enough . '
` Heaven help thee , little creature !
thou art far too little for that , ' say the woman ; ` it would never do . '
But she speak to no purpose , for the boy beg and pray until he have get some old rag and a bundle of provision , and then he set out manfully into the world to find his twin brother .
When the young have walk for some time he catch sight of his brother a short distance in front of him , and call to him and bid him to stop .
` Wait a minute , ' he say ; ` you be walk a if for a wager , but you ought to have stay to see your young brother before you hurry off into the world . '
So the elder stand still and look back , and when the young have get up to him , and have tell him that he be his brother , he say : ` But now , let u sit down and see what kind of food our mother have give u , ' and that they do .
When they have walk on a little farther they come to a brook which run through a green meadow , and there the younger say that they ought to christen each other .
` As we have to make such haste , and have no time to do it at home , we may as well do it here , ' say he .
` What will you be call ? '
ask the elder . '
I will be call Minnikin , ' answer the second ; ` and you , what will you be call ? ' '
I will be call King Pippin , ' answer the elder .
They christen each other and then go onwards .
When they have walk for some time they come to a crossway , and there they agree to part , and each take his own road .
This they do , but no sooner have they walk a short distance than they meet again .
So they part once more , and each take his own road , but in a very short time the same thing happen again -- they meet each other before they be at all aware , and so it happen the third time also .
Then they arrange with each other that each should choose his own quarter , and one should go east and the other west .
` But if ever you fall into any need or trouble , ' say the elder , ` call me thrice , and I will come and help you ; only you must not call me until you be in the utmost need . '
` In that case we shall not see each other for some time , ' say Minnikin ; so they bid farewell to each other , and Minnikin go east and King Pippin go west .
When Minnikin have walk a long way alone , he meet an old , old crook-backed hag , who have only one eye .
Minnikin steal it .
` Oh !
oh ! '
cry the old hag , ` what have become of my eye ? '
` What will you give me to get your eye back ? '
say Minnikin . '
I will give thee a sword which be such a sword that it can conquer a whole army , let it be ever so great , ' reply the woman .
` Let me have it , then , ' say Minnikin .
The old hag give him the sword , so she get her eye back .
Then Minnikin go onwards , and when he have wander on for some time he again meet an old , old crook-backed hag , who have only one eye .
Minnikin steal it before she be aware .
` Oh !
oh !
what have become of my eye ? '
cry the old hag .
` What will you give me to get your eye back ? '
say Minnikin . '
I will give thee a ship which can sail over fresh water and salt water , over high hill and deep dale , ' answer the old woman .
` Let me have it then , ' say Minnikin .
So the old woman give him a little bit of a ship which be no big than he could put in his pocket , and then she get her eye back , and she go her way and Minnikin his .
When he have walk on for a long time , he meet for the third time an old , old crook-backed hag , who have only one eye .
This eye also Minnikin stole , and when the woman scream and lament , and ask what have become of her eye , Minnikin say , ` What will you give me to get your eye back ? ' '
I will give thee the art to brew a hundred last of malt in one brewing . '
So , for teach that art , the old hag get her eye back , and they both go away by different road .
But when Minnikin have walk a short distance , it seem to him that it might be worth while to see what his ship could do ; so he take it out of his pocket , and first he put one foot into it , and then the other , and no sooner have he put one foot into the ship than it become much large , and when he set the other foot into it , it grow as large a ship that sail on the sea .
Then Minnikin say : ` Now go over fresh water and salt water , over high hill and deep dale , and do not stop until thou comest to the King 's palace . '
And in an instant the ship go away as swiftly a any bird in the air till it get just below the King 's palace , and there it stand still .
From the window of the King 's palace many person have see Minnikin come sail thither , and have stand to watch him ; and they be all so astound that they run down to see what manner of man this could be who come sail in a ship through the air .
But while they be run down from the King 's palace , Minnikin have get out of the ship and have put it in his pocket again ; for the moment he get out of it , it once more become as small a it have be when he get it from the old woman , and those who come from the King 's palace could see nothing but a ragged little boy who be stand down by the sea-shore .
The King ask where he have come from , but the boy say he do not know , nor yet could he tell them how he have get there , but he beg very earnestly and prettily for a place in the King 's palace .
If there be nothing else for him to do , he say he would fetch wood and water for the kitchen-maid , and that he obtain leave to do .
When Minnikin go up to the King 's palace he saw that everything there be hung with black both outside and inside , from the bottom to the top ; so he ask the kitchen-maid what that meant .
` Oh , I will tell you that , ' answer the kitchen-maid .
` The King 's daughter be long ago promise away to three Trolls , and next Thursday even one of them be to come to fetch her .
Ritter Red have say that he will be able to set her free , but who know whether he will be able to do it ?
so you may easily imagine what grief and distress we be in here . '
So when Thursday evening come , Ritter Red accompany the Princess to the sea-shore ; for there she be to meet the Troll , and Ritter Red be to stay with her and protect her .
He , however , be very unlikely to do the Troll much injury , for no sooner have the Princess seat herself by the sea-shore than Ritter Red climb up into a great tree which be stand there , and hide himself as well a he could among the branch .
The Princess wept , and beg him most earnestly not to go and leave her ; but Ritter Red do not concern himself about that .
` It be well that one should die than two , ' say he .
In the meantime Minnikin beg the kitchen-maid very prettily to give him leave to go down to the strand for a short time .
` Oh , what could you do down at the strand ? '
say the kitchen-maid .
` You have nothing to do there . '
` Oh yes , my dear , just let me go , ' say Minnikin . '
I should so like to go and amuse myself with the other child . '
` Well , well , go then ! '
say the kitchen-maid , ` but do n't let me find you stay there over the time when the pan have to be set on the fire for supper , and the roast put on the spit ; and mind you bring back a good big armful of wood for the kitchen . '
Minnikin promise this , and run down to the sea-shore .
Just a he get to the place where the King 's daughter be sit , the Troll come rush up with a great whistling and whirring , and he be so big and stout that he be terrible to see , and he have five head .
` Fire ! '
screech the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
say Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
roar the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' say Minnikin .
So the Troll strike at him with a great thick iron bar which he have in his fist , till the sod fly five yard up into the air .
` Fie ! '
say Minnikin .
` That be not much of a blow .
Now you shall see one of mine . '
So he grasp the sword which he have get from the old crook-backed woman , and slash at the Troll so that all five head go fly away over the sand .
When the Princess saw that she be deliver she be so delighted that she do not know what she be do , and skip and dance .
` Come and sleep a bit with your head in my lap , ' she say to Minnikin , and a he sleep she put a golden dress on him .
But when Ritter Red saw that there be no longer any danger afoot , he lose no time in creep down from the tree .
He then threaten the Princess , until at length she be force to promise to say that it be he who have rescue her , for he tell her that if she do not he would kill her .
Then he take the Troll 's lung and tongue and put them in his pocket-handkerchief , and lead the Princess back to the King 's palace ; and whatsoever have be lack to him in the way of honour before be lack no longer , for the King do not know how to exalt him enough , and always set him on his own right hand at table .
As for Minnikin , first he go out on the Troll 's ship and take a great quantity of gold and silver hoop away with him , and then he trot back to the King 's palace .
When the kitchen-maid caught sight of all this gold and silver she be quite amaze , and say : ` My dear friend Minnikin , where have you get all that from ? '
for she be half afraid that he have not come by it honestly .
` Oh , ' answered Minnikin , ' I have be home a while , and these hoop have fall off some of our bucket , so I bring them away with me for you . '
So when the kitchen-maid heard that they be for her , she ask no more question about the matter .
She thank Minnikin , and everything be right again at once .
Next Thursday even all go just the same , and everyone be full of grief and affliction , but Ritter Red say that he have be able to deliver the King 's daughter from one Troll , so that he could very easily deliver her from another , and he lead her down to the sea-shore .
But he do not do much harm to this Troll either , for when the time come when the Troll might be expect , he say a he have say before : ` It be well that one should die than two , ' and then climb up into the tree again .
Minnikin once more beg the cook 's leave to go down to the sea-shore for a short time .
` Oh , what can you do there ? '
say the cook .
` My dear , do let me go ! '
say Minnikin ; ' I should so like to go down there and amuse myself a little with the other child . '
So this time also she say that he should have leave to go , but he must first promise that he would be back by the time the joint be turn and that he would bring a great armful of wood with him .
No sooner have Minnikin get down to the strand than the Troll come rush along with a great whistling and whirring , and he be twice as big a the first Troll , and he have ten head .
` Fire ! '
shriek the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
say Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
roar the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' say Minnikin .
So the Troll strike at him with his iron club -- which be still big than that which the first Troll have have -- so that the earth fly ten yard up in the air .
` Fie ! '
say Minnikin .
` That be not much of a blow .
Now you shall see one of my blow . '
Then he grasp his sword and struck at the Troll , so that all his ten head dance away over the sand .
And again the King 's daughter say to him , ` Sleep a while on my lap , ' and while Minnikin lay there she draw some silver raiment over him .
As soon a Ritter Red saw that there be no longer any danger afoot , he creep down from the tree and threaten the Princess , until at last she be again force to promise to say that it be he who have rescue her ; after which he take the tongue and the lung of the Troll and put them in his pocket-handkerchief , and then he conduct the Princess back to the palace .
There be joy and gladness in the palace , a may be imagine , and the King do not know how to show enough honour and respect to Ritter Red .
Minnikin , however , take home with him an armful of gold and silver hoop from the Troll 's ship .
When he come back to the King 's palace the kitchen-maid clap her hand and wonder where he could have get all that gold and silver ; but Minnikin answer that he have be home for a short time , and that it be only the hoop which have fall off some pail , and that he have bring them away for the kitchen-maid .
When the third Thursday evening come , everything happen exactly a it have happen on the two former occasion .
Everything in the King 's palace be hang with black , and everyone be sorrowful and distressed ; but Ritter Red say that he do not think that they have much reason to be afraid -- he have deliver the King 's daughter from two Trolls , so he could easily deliver her from the third as well .
He lead her down to the strand , but when the time draw near for the Troll to come , he climb up into the tree again and hide himself .
The Princess wept and entreat him to stay , but all to no purpose .
He stick to his old speech , ` It be well that one life should be lose than two . '
This evening also , Minnikin beg for leave to go down to the sea-shore .
` Oh , what can you do there ? '
answer the kitchen-maid .
However , he beg until at last he get leave to go , but he be force to promise that he would be back again in the kitchen when the roast have to be turn .
Almost immediately after he have get down to the sea-shore the Troll come with a great whizzing and whirring , and he be much , much big than either of the two former one , and he have fifteen head .
` Fire ! '
roar the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
say Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
scream the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' say Minnikin . '
I will teach you , ' yell the Troll , and strike at him with his iron club so that the earth fly up fifteen yard high into the air .
` Fie ! '
say Minnikin .
` That be not much of a blow .
Now I will let you see one of my blow . '
So say he grasp his sword , and cut at the Troll in such a way that all his fifteen head dance away over the sand .
Then the Princess be deliver , and she thank Minnikin and bless him for save her .
` Sleep a while now on my lap , ' say she , and while he lay there she put a garment of brass upon him .
` But now , how shall we have it make known that it be you who save me ? '
say the King 's daughter .
` That I will tell you , ' answered Minnikin .
` When Ritter Red have take you home again , and give out that it be he who rescue you , he will , a you know , have you to wife , and half the kingdom .
But when they ask you on your wedding-day whom you will have to be your cup-bearer , you must say , `` I will have the rag boy who be in the kitchen , and carry wood and water for the kitchen-maid ; '' and when I be fill your cup for you , I will spill a drop upon his plate but none upon yours , and then he will be angry and strike me , and this will take place thrice .
But the third time you must say , `` Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of mine heart .
It be he who deliver me from the Troll , and he be the one whom I will have . '' '
Then Minnikin run back to the King 's palace a he have do before , but first he go on board the Troll 's ship and take a great quantity of gold and silver and other precious thing , and out of these he once more give to the kitchen-maid a whole armful of gold and silver hoop .
No sooner do Ritter Red see that all danger be over than he creep down from the tree , and threaten the King 's daughter till he make her promise to say that he have rescue her .
Then he conduct her back to the King 's palace , and if honour enough have not be do him before it be certainly do now , for the King have no other think than how to make much of the man who have save his daughter from the three Trolls ; and it be settle then that Ritter Red should marry her , and receive half the kingdom .
On the wedding-day , however , the Princess beg that she might have the little boy who be in the kitchen , and carry wood and water for the kitchen-maid , to fill the wine-cups at the wedding feast .
` Oh , what can you want with that dirty , rag boy , in here ? '
say Ritter Red , but the Princess say that she insist on have him a cup-bearer and would have no one else ; and at last she get leave , and then everything be do a have be agree on between the Princess and Minnikin .
He spill a drop on Ritter Red 's plate but none upon hers , and each time that he do it Ritter Red fell into a rage and strike him .
At the first blow all the ragged garment which he have wear in the kitchen fell from off Minnikin , at the second blow the brass garment fell off , and at the third the silver raiment , and there he stand in the golden raiment , which be so bright and splendid that light flash from it .
Then the King 's daughter say : ` Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of my heart .
It be he who deliver me from the Troll , and he be the one whom I will have . '
Ritter Red swore that he be the man who have save her , but the King say : ` He who deliver my daughter must have some token in proof of it . '
So Ritter Red run off at once for his handkerchief with the lung and tongue , and Minnikin go and bring all the gold and silver and precious thing which he have take out of the Trolls ' ship ; and they each of them lay these token before the King .
` He who have such precious thing in gold and silver and diamond , ' say the King , ` must be the one who kill the Troll , for such thing be not to be have anywhere else . '
So Ritter Red be throw into the snake-pit , and Minnikin be to have the Princess , and half the kingdom .
One day the King go out walk with Minnikin , and Minnikin ask him if he have never have any other child .
` Yes , ' say the King , ' I have another daughter , but the Troll carry her away because there be no one who could deliver her .
You be go to have one daughter of mine , but if you can set free the other , who have be take by the Troll , you shall willingly have her too , and the other half of the kingdom as well . ' '
I may as well make the attempt , ' say Minnikin , ` but I must have an iron rope which be five hundred ell long , and then I must have five hundred men with me , and provision for five week , for I have a long voyage before me . '
So the King say he should have these thing , but the King be afraid that he have no ship large enough to carry them all .
` But I have a ship of my own , ' say Minnikin , and he take the one which the old woman have give him out of his pocket .
The King laugh at him and think that it be only one of his joke , but Minnikin beg him just to give him what he have ask for , and then he should see something .
Then all that Minnikin have ask for be bring ; and first he order them to lay the cable in the ship , but there be no one who be able to lift it , and there be only room for one or two men at a time in the little bit of a ship .
Then Minnikin himself take hold of the cable , and lay one or two link of it into the ship , and a he throw the link into it the ship grow big and big , and at last it be so large that the cable , and the five hundred men , and provision , and Minnikin himself , have room enough .
` Now go over fresh water and salt water , over hill and dale , and do not stop until thou comest to where the King 's daughter be , ' say Minnikin to the ship , and off it go in a moment over land and water till the wind whistle and moan all round about it .
When they have sail thus a long , long way , the ship stop short in the middle of the sea .
` Ah , now we have get there , ' say Minnikin , ` but how we be to get back again be a very different thing . '
Then he take the cable and tie one end of it round his body .
` Now I must go to the bottom , ' he say , ` but when I give a good jerk to the cable and want to come up again , you must all pull like one man , or there will be an end of all life both for you and for me . '
So say he spring into the water , and yellow bubble rise up all around him .
He sink low and low , and at last he come to the bottom .
There he saw a large hill with a door in it , and in he go .
When he have get inside he find the other Princess sit sewing , but when she saw Minnikin she clap her hand .
` Ah , heaven be praise ! '
she cry , ' I have not see a Christian man since I come here . ' '
I have come for you , ' say Minnikin .
` Alas !
you will not be able to get me , ' say the King 's daughter .
` It be no use even to think of that ; if the Troll catch sight of you he will take your life . '
` You have good tell me about him , ' say Minnikin .
` Where be he go ?
It would be amuse to see him . '
So the King 's daughter tell Minnikin that the Troll be out try to get hold of someone who could brew a hundred last of malt at one brewing , for there be to be a feast at the Troll 's , at which less than that would not be drunk . '
I can do that , ' say Minnikin .
` Ah !
if only the Troll be not so quick-tempered I might have tell him that , ' answer the Princess , ` but he be so ill-natured that he will tear you to piece , I fear , as soon a he come in .
But I will try to find some way of do it .
Can you hide yourself here in the cupboard ?
and then we will see what happen . '
Minnikin do this , and almost before he have creep into the cupboard and hidden himself , come the Troll .
` Huf !
What a smell of Christian man 's blood ! '
say the Troll .
` Yes , a bird flew over the roof with a Christian man 's bone in his bill , and let it fall down our chimney , ' answer the Princess . '
I make haste enough to get it away again , but it must be that which smell so , notwithstanding . '
` Yes , it must be that , ' say the Troll .
Then the Princess ask if he have get hold of anyone who could brew a hundred last of malt at one brewing .
` No , there be no one who can do it , ' say the Troll . '
A short time since there be a man here who say he could do it , ' say the King 's daughter .
` How clever you always be ! '
say the Troll .
` How could you let him go away ?
You must have know that I be just want a man of that kind . '
` Well , but I do n't let him go , after all , ' say the Princess ; ` but father be so quick-tempered , so I hide him in the cupboard , but if father have not find any one then the man be still here . '
` Let him come in , ' say the Troll .
When Minnikin come , the Troll ask if it be true that he could brew a hundred last of malt at one brewing .
` Yes , ' say Minnikin , ` it be . '
` It be well then that I have light on thee , ' say the Troll .
` Fall to work this very minute , but Heaven help thee if thou dost not brew the ale strong . '
` Oh , it shall taste well , ' say Minnikin , and at once set himself to work to brew .
` But I must have more troll to help to carry what be want , ' say Minnikin ; ` these that I have be good for nothing . '
So he get more and so many that there be a swarm of them , and then the brewing go on .
When the sweet-wort be ready they be all , a a matter of course , anxious to taste it , first the Troll himself and then the others ; but Minnikin have brew the wort so strong that they all fell down dead like so many fly as soon a they have drink any of it .
At last there be no one leave but one wretched old hag who be lie behind the stove .
` Oh , poor old creature ! '
say Minnikin , ` you shall have a taste of the wort too like the rest . '
So he go away and scoop up a little from the bottom of the brewing vat in a milk pan , and give it to her , and then he be quit of the whole of them .
While Minnikin be now stand there look about him , he cast his eye on a large chest .
This he take and fill it with gold and silver , and then he tie the cable round himself and the Princess and the chest , and tug at the rope with all his might , whereupon his men draw them up safe and sound .
As soon a Minnikin have get safely on his ship again , he say : ` Now go over salt water and fresh water , over hill and dale , and do not stop until thou comest unto the King 's palace . '
And in a moment the ship go off so fast that the yellow foam rise up all round about it .
When those who be in the King 's palace saw the ship , they lose no time in go to meet him with song and music , and thus they march up towards Minnikin with great rejoicing ; but the glad of all be the King , for now he have get his other daughter back again .
But now Minnikin be not happy , for both the Princesses want to have him , and he want to have none other than the one whom he have first save , and she be the young .
For this cause he be continually walking backwards and forward , think how he could contrive to get her , and yet do nothing that be unkind to her sister .
One day when he be walk about and thinking of this , it come into his mind that if he only have his brother , King Pippin , with him , who be so like himself that no one could distinguish the one from the other , he could let him have the elder Princess and half the kingdom ; a for himself , he think , the other half be quite enough .
As soon a this thought occur to him he go outside the palace and call for King Pippin , but no one come .
So he call a second time , and a little louder , but no !
still no one come .
So Minnikin call for the third time , and with all his might , and there stand his brother by his side . '
I tell you that you be not to call me unless you be in the utmost need , ' he say to Minnikin , ` and there be not even so much a a midge here who can do you any harm ! '
and with that he give Minnikin such a blow that he roll over on the grass .
` Shame on you to strike me ! '
say Minnikin .
` First have I win one Princess and half the kingdom , and then the other Princess and the other half of the kingdom ; and now , when I be just think that I would give you one of the Princesses and one of the half of the kingdom , do you think you have any reason to give me such a blow ? '
When King Pippin heard that he beg his brother 's pardon , and they be reconcile at once and become good friend .
` Now , a you know , ' say Minnikin , ` we be so like each other that no one can tell one of u from the other ; so just change clothes with me and go up to the palace , and then the Princesses will think that I be come in , and the one who kiss you first shall be yours , and I will have the other . '
For he know that the elder Princess be the strong , so he could very well guess how thing would go .
King Pippin at once agree to this .
He change clothes with his brother , and go into the palace .
When he enter the Princess 's apartment they believe that he be Minnikin , and both of them run up to him at once ; but the elder , who be big and strong , push her sister aside , and throw her arm round King Pippin 's neck and kiss him ; so he get her to wife , and Minnikin the young sister .
It will be easy to understand that two wedding take place , and they be so magnificent that they be hear of and talk about all over seven kingdom .
-LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From J. Moe .
BUSHY BRIDE THERE be once on a time a widower who have a son and a daughter by his first wife .
They be both good child , and love each other with all their heart .
After some time have go by the man marry again , and he choose a widow with one daughter who be ugly and wicked , and her mother be ugly and wicked too .
From the very day that the new wife come into the house there be no peace for the man 's child , and not a corner to be find where they could get any rest ; so the boy think that the best thing he could do be to go out into the world and try to earn his own bread .
When he have roam about for some time he come to the King 's palace , where he obtain a place under the coachman ; and very brisk and active he be , and the horse that he look after be so fat and sleek , that they shine again .
But his sister , who be still at home , fare bad and bad .
Both her step-mother and her step-sister be always find fault with her , whatsoever she do and whithersoever she go , and they scold her and abuse her so that she never have an hour 's peace .
They make her do all the hard work , and hard word fell to her lot early and late , but little enough food accompany them .
One day they send her to the brook to fetch some water home , and an ugly and horrible head rise up out of the water , and say , ` Wash me , girl ! '
` Yes , I will wash you with pleasure , ' say the girl , and begin to wash and scrub the ugly face , but she could n't help think that it be a very unpleasant piece of work .
When she have do it , and do it well , another head rise up out of the water , and this one be ugly still .
` Brush me , girl ! '
say the head .
` Yes , I will brush you with pleasure , ' say the girl , and set to work with the tangled hair , and , a may be easily imagine , this too be by no mean pleasant work .
When she have get it do , another and a much more ugly and horrible-looking head rise up out of the water .
` Kiss me , girl ! '
say the head .
` Yes , I will kiss you , ' say the man 's daughter , and she do it , but she think it be the bad bit of work that she have ever have to do in her life .
So the head all begin to talk to each other , and to ask what they should do for this girl who be so full of kindliness .
` She shall be the pretty girl that ever be , and fair and bright a the day , ' say the first head .
` Gold shall drop from her hair whenever she brush it , ' say the second .
` Gold shall drop from her mouth whenever she speak , ' say the third head .
So when the man 's daughter go home , look a beautiful and bright a day , the step-mother and her daughter grow much more ill-tempered , and it be bad still when she begin to talk , and they saw that golden coin drop from her mouth .
The step-mother fell into such a tower passion that she drive the man 's daughter into the pig-stye -- she might stay there with her fine show of gold , the step-mother say , but she should not be permit to set foot in the house .
It be not long before the mother want her own daughter to go to the stream to fetch some water .
When she get there with her pail , the first head rise up out of the water close to the bank .
` Wash me , girl ! '
it say .
` Wash yourself ! '
answer the woman 's daughter .
Then the second head appear .
` Brush me , girl ! '
say the head .
` Brush yourself ! '
say the woman 's daughter .
So down it go to the bottom , and the third head come up .
` Kiss me , girl ! '
say the head .
` As if I would kiss your ugly mouth ! '
say the girl .
So again the head talk together about what they should do for this girl who be so ill-tempered and full of her own importance , and they agree that she should have a nose that be four ell long , and a jaw that be three ell , and a fir bush in the middle of her forehead , and every time she speak ash should fall from her mouth .
When she come back to the cottage door with her pail , she call to her mother who be inside , ` Open the door ! '
` Open the door yourself , my own dear child ! '
say the mother . '
I ca n't get near , because of my nose , ' say the daughter .
When the mother come and saw her you may imagine what a state of mind she be in , and how she scream and lament , but neither the nose nor the jaw grow any the less for that .
Now the brother , who be in service in the King 's palace , have take a portrait of his sister , and he have carry the picture away with him , and every morning and evening he kneel down before it and pray for his sister , so dearly do he love her .
The other stable-boys have hear him do this , so they peep through the key-hole into his room , and saw that he be kneel there before a picture ; so they tell everyone that every morning and even the youth kneel down and pray to an idol which he have ; and at last they go to the King himself , and beg that he too would peep through the key-hole , and see for himself what the youth do .
At first the King would not believe this , but after a long , long time , they prevail with him , and he creep on tip-toe to the door , peep through , and saw the youth on his knee , with his hand clasp together before a picture which be hang on the wall .
` Open the door ! '
cry the King , but the youth do not hear .
So the King call to him again , but the youth be pray so fervently that he do not hear him this time either .
` Open the door , I say ! '
cry the King again .
` It be I !
I want to come in . '
So the youth sprang to the door and unlock it , but in his haste he forget to hide the picture .
When the King enter and saw it , he stand still a if he be in fetter , and could not stir from the spot , for the picture seem to him so beautiful .
` There be nowhere on earth so beautiful a woman a this ! '
say the King .
But the youth tell him that she be his sister , and that he have paint her , and that if she be not pretty than the picture she be at all event not uglier .
` Well , if she be as beautiful a that , I will have her for my Queen , ' say the King , and he command the youth to go home and fetch her without a moment 's delay , and to lose no time in come back .
The youth promise to make all the haste he could , and set forth from the King 's palace .
When the brother arrive at home to fetch his sister , her stepmother and step-sister would go too .
So they all set out together , and the man 's daughter take with her a casket in which she keep her gold , and a dog which be call Little Snow .
These two thing be all that she have inherit from her mother .
When they have travel for some time they have to cross the sea , and the brother sit down at the helm , and the mother and the two half-sister go to the fore-part of the vessel , and they sail a long , long way .
At last they come in sight of land .
` Look at that white strand there ; that be where we shall land , ' say the brother , point across the sea .
` What be my brother say ? '
inquire the man 's daughter .
` He say that you be to throw your casket out into the sea , ' answer the step-mother .
` Well , if my brother say so , I must do it , ' say the man 's daughter , and she fling her casket into the sea .
When they have sail for some time longer , the brother once more pointed over the sea .
` There you may see the palace to which we be bind , ' say he .
` What be my brother say ? '
ask the man 's daughter .
` Now he say that you be to throw your dog into the sea , ' answer the step-mother .
The man 's daughter wept , and be sorely troubled , for Little Snow be the dear thing she have on earth , but at last she throw him overboard .
` If my brother say that , I must do it , but Heaven know how unwilling I be to throw thee out , Little Snow ! '
say she .
So they sail onwards a long way farther .
` There may ` st thou see the King come out to meet thee , ' say the brother , point to the sea-shore .
` What be my brother say ? '
ask his sister again .
` Now he say that you be to make haste and throw yourself overboard , ' answer the step-mother .
She weep and she wail , but a her brother have say that , she think she must do it ; so she leap into the sea .
But when they arrive at the palace , and the King behold the ugly bride with a nose that be four ell long , a jaw that be three ell , and a forehead that have a bush in the middle of it , he be quite terrified ; but the wedding feast be all prepared , a regarded brewing and baking , and all the wedding guest be sit wait , so , ugly a she be , the King be force to take her .
But he be very wroth , and none can blame him for that ; so he cause the brother to be throw into a pit full of snake .
On the first Thursday night after this , a beautiful maiden come into the kitchen of the palace , and beg the kitchen-maid , who sleep there , to lend her a brush .
She beg very prettily , and get it , and then she brush her hair , and the gold drop from it .
A little dog be with her , and she say to it , ` Go out , Little Snow , and see if it will soon be day ! '
This she say thrice , and the third time that she send out the dog to see , it be very near dawn .
Then she be force to depart , but a she go she say : ` Out on thee , ugly Bushy Bride , Sleeping so soft by the young King 's side , On sand and stone my bed I make , And my brother sleep with the cold snake , Unpitied and unwept . '
I shall come twice more , and then never again , ' say she .
In the morning the kitchen-maid relate what she have see and hear , and the King say that next Thursday night he himself would watch in the kitchen and see if this be true , and when it have begin to grow dark he go out into the kitchen to the girl .
But though he rub his eye and do everything he could to keep himself awake it be all in vain , for the Bushy Bride croon and sing till his eye be fast close , and when the beautiful young maiden come he be sound asleep and snore .
This time also , a before , she borrow a brush and brush her hair with it , and the gold drop down a she do it ; and again she send the dog out three time , and when day dawn she depart , but a she be go she say a she have say before , ' I shall come once more , and then never again . '
On the third Thursday night the King once more insisted on keep watch .
Then he set two men to hold him ; each of them be to take an arm , and shake him and jerk him by the arm whenever he seem to be go to fall asleep ; and he set two men to watch his Bushy Bride .
But a the night wore on the Bushy Bride again begin to croon and to sing , so that his eye begin to close and his head to droop on one side .
Then come the lovely maiden , and get the brush and brush her hair till the gold drop from it , and then she send her Little Snow out to see if it would soon be day , and this she do three time .
The third time it be just begin to grow light , and then she say : ` Out on thee , ugly Bushy Bride , Sleeping so soft by the young King 's side , On sand and stone my bed I make , And my brother sleep with the cold snake , Unpitied and unwept . '
` Now I shall never come again , ' she say , and then she turn to go .
But the two men who be hold the King by the arm seize his hand and force a knife into his grasp , and then make him cut her little finger just enough to make it bleed .
Thus the true bride be free .
The King then awake , and she tell him all that have take place , and how her step-mother and step-sister have betray her .
Then the brother be at once take out of the snake-pit -- the snake have never touch him -- and the step-mother and step-sister be flung down into it instead of him .
No one can tell how delighted the King be to get rid of that hideous Bushy Bride , and get a Queen who be bright and beautiful a day itself .
And now the real wedding be hold , and hold in such a way that it be hear of and speak about all over seven kingdom .
The King and his bride drive to church , and Little Snow be in the carriage too .
When the blessing be give they go home again , and after that I saw no more of them .
-LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From J. Moe .
SNOWDROP ONCE upon a time , in the middle of winter when the snow-flakes be fall like feather on the earth , a Queen sat at a window frame in black ebony and sew .
And a she sew and gaze out to the white landscape , she prick her finger with the needle , and three drop of blood fell on the snow outside , and because the red show out so well against the white she think to herself : ` Oh !
what would n't I give to have a child as white a snow , as red a blood , and as black a ebony ! '
And her wish be grant , for not long after a little daughter be bear to her , with a skin as white a snow , lip and cheek as red a blood , and hair as black a ebony .
They call her Snowdrop , and not long after her birth the Queen die .
After a year the King marry again .
His new wife be a beautiful woman , but so proud and overbear that she could n't stand any rival to her beauty .
She possess a magic mirror , and when she use to stand before it gaze at her own reflection and ask : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
it always reply : ` You be most fair , my Lady Queen , None fairer in the land , I ween . '
Then she be quite happy , for she know the mirror always speak the truth .
But Snowdrop be grow pretty and pretty every day , and when she be seven year old she be as beautiful a she could be , and fair even than the Queen herself .
One day when the latter ask her mirror the usual question , it reply : ` My Lady Queen , you be fair , 't be true , But Snowdrop be fair far than you . '
Then the Queen fly into the most awful passion , and turn every shade of green in her jealousy .
From this hour she hat poor Snowdrop like poison , and every day her envy , hatred , and malice grow , for envy and jealousy be like evil weed which spring up and choke the heart .
At last she could endure Snowdrop 's presence no longer , and , call a huntsman to her , she say : ` Take the child out into the wood , and never let me see her face again .
You must kill her , and bring me back her lung and liver , that I may know for certain she be dead . '
The Huntsman do a he be tell and lead Snowdrop out into the wood , but a he be in the act of draw out his knife to slay her , she begin to cry , and say : ` Oh , dear Huntsman , spare my life , and I will promise to fly forth into the wide wood and never to return home again . '
And because she be so young and pretty the Huntsman have pity on her , and say : ` Well , run along , poor child . '
For he think to himself : ` The wild beast will soon eat her up . '
And his heart felt lighter because he have n't have to do the deed himself .
And a he turn away a young boar come run past , so he shoot it , and bring it lung and liver home to the Queen a a proof that Snowdrop be really dead .
And the wicked woman have them stew in salt , and eat them up , think she have make an end of Snowdrop for ever .
Now when the poor child find herself alone in the big wood the very trees around her seem to assume strange shape , and she felt so frightened she do n't know what to do .
Then she begin to run over the sharp stone , and through the bramble bush , and the wild beast run past her , but they do her no harm .
She run as far a her leg would carry her , and a evening approach she saw a little house , and she step inside to rest .
Everything be very small in the little house , but clean and neat than anything you can imagine .
In the middle of the room there stand a little table , cover with a white tablecloth , and seven little plate and fork and spoon and knife and tumbler .
Side by side against the wall there be seven little bed , cover with snow-white counterpane .
Snowdrop felt so hungry and so thirsty that she eat a bit of bread and a little porridge from each plate , and drink a drop of wine out of each tumbler .
Then feel tire and sleepy she lay down on one of the bed , but it be n't comfortable ; then she try all the others in turn , but one be too long , and another too short , and it be only when she get to the seventh that she find one to suit her exactly .
So she lay down upon it , say her prayer like a good child , and fell fast asleep .
When it get quite dark the master of the little house return .
They be seven dwarf who work in the mine , right down deep in the heart of the mountain .
They light their seven little lamp , and as soon a their eye get accustom to the glare they saw that someone have be in the room , for all be not in the same order a they have leave it .
The first say : ` Who 's be sit on my little chair ? '
The second say : ` Who 's be eat my little loaf ? '
The third say : ` Who 's be taste my porridge ? '
The fourth say : ` Who 's be eat out of my little plate ? '
The fifth say : ` Who 's be use my little fork ? '
The sixth say : ` Who 's be cut with my little knife ? '
The seventh say : ` Who 's be drink out of my little tumbler ? '
Then the first Dwarf look round and saw a little hollow in his bed , and he ask again : ` Who 's be lie on my bed ? '
The others come run round , and cry when they saw their bed : ` Somebody have lie on ours too . '
But when the seventh come to his bed , he start back in amazement , for there he behold Snowdrop fast asleep .
Then he call the others , who turn their little lamps full on the bed , and when they saw Snowdrop lie there they nearly fell down with surprise .
` Goodness gracious ! '
they cry , ` what a beautiful child ! '
And they be so enchant by her beauty that they do not wake her , but let her sleep on in the little bed .
But the seventh Dwarf slept with his companion one hour in each bed , and in this way he manage to pass the night .
In the morning Snowdrop awoke , but when she saw the seven little Dwarfs she felt very frighten .
But they be so friendly and ask her what her name be in such a kind way , that she reply : ' I be Snowdrop . '
` Why do you come to our house ? '
continue the Dwarfs .
Then she tell them how her stepmother have wish her put to death , and how the Huntsman have spar her life , and how she have run the whole day till she have come to their little house .
The Dwarfs , when they have hear her sad story , ask her : ` Will you stay and keep house for u , cook , make the bed , the washing , sew and knit ?
and if you give satisfaction and keep everything neat and clean , you shall want for nothing . '
` Yes , ' answer Snowdrop , ' I will gladly do all you ask . '
And so she take up her abode with them .
Every morning the Dwarfs go into the mountain to dig for gold , and in the evening , when they return home , Snowdrop always have their supper ready for them .
But during the day the girl be leave quite alone , so the good Dwarfs warn her , say : ` Beware of your step-mother .
She will soon find out you be here , and whatever you do do n't let anyone into the house . '
Now the Queen , after she think she have eat Snowdrop 's lung and liver , never dream but that she be once more the most beautiful woman in the world ; so stepping before her mirror one day she say : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror reply : ` My Lady Queen , you be fair , 't be true , But Snowdrop be fair far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwell with the seven little men , Is as fair a you , a fair again . '
When the Queen heard these word she be nearly struck dumb with horror , for the mirror always speak the truth , and she know now that the Huntsman must have deceive her , and that Snowdrop be still alive .
She ponder day and night how she might destroy her , for as long a she felt she have a rival in the land her jealous heart leave her no rest .
At last she hit upon a plan .
She stain her face and dress herself up a an old peddler wife , so that she be quite unrecognisable .
In this guise she go over the seven hill till she come to the house of the seven Dwarfs .
There she knock at the door , call out at the same time : ` Fine war to sell , fine ware to sell ! '
Snowdrop peep out of the window , and call out : ` Good-day , mother , what have you to sell ? '
` Good ware , fine ware , ' she answer ; ` lace of every shade and description , ' and she hold one up that be make of some gay colour silk .
` Surely I can let the honest woman in , ' thought Snowdrop ; so she unbar the door and buy the pretty lace .
` Good gracious !
child , ' say the old woman , ` what a figure you 've get .
Come !
I 'll lace you up properly for once . '
Snowdrop , suspect no evil , stand before her and let her lace her bodice up , but the old woman lace her so quickly and so tightly that it take Snowdrop 's breath away , and she fell down dead .
` Now you be no longer the fair , ' say the wicked old woman , and then she hasten away .
In the even the seven Dwarfs come home , and you may think what a fright they get when they saw their dear Snowdrop lie on the floor , a still and motionless a a dead person .
They lift her up tenderly , and when they saw how tightly lace she be they cut the lace in two , and she begin to breathe a little and gradually come back to life .
When the Dwarfs hear what have happen , they say : ` Depend upon it , the old peddler wife be none other than the old Queen .
In future you must be sure to let no one in , if we be not at home . '
As soon a the wicked old Queen get home she go straight to her mirror , and say : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror answer a before : ` My Lady Queen , you be fair , 't be true , But Snowdrop be fair far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwell with the seven little men , Is as fair a you , a fair again . '
When she hear this she become as pale a death , because she saw at once that Snowdrop must be alive again .
` This time , ' she say to herself , ' I will think of something that will make an end of her once and for all . '
And by the witchcraft which she understand so well she make a poisonous comb ; then she dress herself up and assume the form of another old woman .
So she go over the seven hill till she reach the house of the seven Dwarfs , and knock at the door she call out : ` Fine ware for sale . '
Snowdrop look out of the window and say : ` You must go away , for I may not let anyone in . '
` But surely you be not forbidden to look out ? '
say the old woman , and she hold up the poisonous comb for her to see .
It please the girl so much that she let herself be take in , and open the door .
When they have settle their bargain the old woman say : ` Now I 'll comb your hair properly for you , for once in the way . '
Poor Snowdrop think no evil , but hardly have the comb touch her hair than the poison work and she fell down unconscious .
` Now , my fine lady , you 're really do for this time , ' say the wicked woman , and she make her way home a fast a she could .
Fortunately it be now near evening , and the seven Dwarfs return home .
When they saw Snowdrop lie dead on the ground , they at once suspect that her wicked step-mother have be at work again ; so they search till they find the poisonous comb , and the moment they pull it out of her head Snowdrop come to herself again , and tell them what have happen .
Then they warn her once more to be on her guard , and to open the door to no one .
As soon a the Queen get home she go straight to her mirror , and ask : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and it reply a before : ` My Lady Queen , you be fair , 't be true , But Snowdrop be fair far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwell with the seven little men , Is as fair a you , a fair again . '
When she hear these word she literally tremble and shook with rage .
` Snowdrop shall die , ' she cry ; ` yes , though it cost me my own life . '
Then she go to a little secret chamber , which no one knew of but herself , and there she make a poisonous apple .
Outwardly it look beautiful , white with red cheek , so that everyone who saw it long to eat it , but anyone who might do so would certainly die on the spot .
When the apple be quite finish she stain her face and dress herself up a a peasant , and so she go over the seven hill to the seven Dwarfs ' .
She knock at the door , a usual , but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and call out : ' I may not let anyone in , the seven Dwarfs have forbid me to do so . '
` Are you afraid of be poison ? '
ask the old woman .
` See , I will cut this apple in half .
I 'll eat the white cheek and you can eat the red . '
But the apple be so cunningly make that only the red cheek be poisonous .
Snowdrop long to eat the tempting fruit , and when she saw that the peasant woman be eat it herself , she could n't resist the temptation any long , and stretch out her hand she take the poisonous half .
But hardly have the first bite pass her lip than she fell down dead on the ground .
Then the eye of the cruel Queen sparkle with glee , and laugh aloud she cry : ` As white a snow , as red a blood , and as black a ebony , this time the Dwarfs wo n't be able to bring you back to life . '
When she get home she ask the mirror : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and this time it reply : ` You be most fair , my Lady Queen , None fairer in the land , I ween . '
Then her jealous heart be at rest -- at least , a much at rest a a jealous heart can ever be .
When the little Dwarfs come home in the evening they find Snowdrop lie on the ground , and she neither breathe nor stir .
They lift her up , and look round everywhere to see if they could find anything poisonous about .
They unlace her bodice , comb her hair , wash her with water and wine , but all in vain ; the child be dead and remain dead .
Then they place her on a bier , and all the seven Dwarfs sit round it , weep and sob for three whole day .
At last they make up their mind to bury her , but she look as bloom a a living be , and her cheek be still such a lovely colour , that they say : ` We ca n't hide her away in the black ground . '
So they have a coffin make of transparent glass , and they lay her in it , and write on the lid in golden letter that she be a royal Princess .
Then they put the coffin on the top of the mountain , and one of the Dwarfs always remain beside it and keep watch over it .
And the very bird of the air come and bewail Snowdrop 's death , first an owl , and then a raven , and last of all a little dove .
Snowdrop lay a long time in the coffin , and she always look the same , just a if she be fast asleep , and she remain as white a snow , as red a blood , and her hair as black a ebony .
Now it happen one day that a Prince come to the wood and pass by the Dwarfs ' house .
He saw the coffin on the hill , with the beautiful Snowdrop inside it , and when he have read what be write on it in golden letter , he say to the Dwarf : ` Give me the coffin .
I 'll give you whatever you like for it . '
But the Dwarf say : ` No ; we would n't part with it for all the gold in the world . '
` Well , then , ' he reply , ` give it to me , because I ca n't live without Snowdrop .
I will cherish and love it a my dear possession . '
He speak so sadly that the good Dwarfs have pity on him , and give him the coffin , and the Prince make his servant bear it away on their shoulder .
Now it happen that a they be go down the hill they stumble over a bush , and jolt the coffin so violently that the poisonous bit of apple Snowdrop have swallow fell out of her throat .
She gradually open her eye , lift up the lid of the coffin , and sit up alive and well .
` Oh !
dear me , where be I ? '
she cry .
The Prince answer joyfully , ` You be with me , ' and he tell her all that have happen , add , ' I love you good than anyone in the whole wide world .
Will you come with me to my father 's palace and be my wife ? '
Snowdrop consent , and go with him , and the marriage be celebrate with great pomp and splendour .
Now Snowdrop 's wicked step-mother be one of the guest invite to the wedding feast .
When she have dress herself very gorgeously for the occasion , she go to the mirror , and say : ` Mirror , mirror , hang there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror answer : ` My Lady Queen , you be fair , 't be true , But Snowdrop be fair far than you . '
When the wicked woman hear these word she utter a curse , and be beside herself with rage and mortification .
At first she do n't want to go to the wedding at all , but at the same time she felt she would never be happy till she have see the young Queen .
As she enter Snowdrop recognise her , and nearly faint with fear ; but red-hot iron shoe have be prepare for the wicked old Queen , and she be make to get into them and dance till she fell down dead .
-LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 29 -RRB- Grimm .
THE GOLDEN GOOSE THERE be once a man who have three son .
The young of them be call Dullhead , and be sneer and jeer at and snub on every possible opportunity .
One day it happen that the eldest son wish to go into the forest to cut wood , and before he start his mother give him a fine rich cake and a bottle of wine , so that he might be sure not to suffer from hunger or thirst .
When he reach the forest he meet a little old grey man who wish him ` Good-morning , ' and say : ` Do give me a piece of that cake you have get in your pocket , and let me have a draught of your wine -- I be so hungry and thirsty . '
But this clever son reply : ` If I give you my cake and wine I shall have none leave for myself ; you just go your own way ; ' and he leave the little man stand there and go far on into the forest .
There he begin to cut down a tree , but before long he make a false stroke with his axe , and cut his own arm so badly that he be oblige to go home and have it bind up .
Then the second son go to the forest , and his mother give him a good cake and a bottle of wine a she have to his elder brother .
He too meet the little old grey man , who beg him for a morsel of cake and a draught of wine .
But the second son speak most sensibly too , and say : ` Whatever I give to you I deprive myself of .
Just go your own way , will you ? '
Not long after his punishment overtook him , for no sooner have he strike a couple of blow on a tree with his axe , than he cut his leg so badly that he have to be carry home .
So then Dullhead say : ` Father , let me go out and cut wood . '
But his father answer : ` Both your brother have injure themselves .
You have good leave it alone ; you know nothing about it . '
But Dullhead beg so hard to be allow to go that at last his father say : ` Very well , then -- go .
Perhaps when you have hurt yourself , you may learn to know well . '
His mother only give him a very plain cake make with water and bake in the cinder , and a bottle of sour beer .
When he get to the forest , he too meet the little grey old man , who greet him and say : ` Give me a piece of your cake and a draught from your bottle ; I be so hungry and thirsty . '
And Dullhead reply : ` I 've only get a cinder-cake and some sour beer , but if you care to have that , let u sit down and eat . '
So they sit down , and when Dullhead bring out his cake he find it have turn into a fine rich cake , and the sour beer into excellent wine .
Then they eat and drank , and when they have finish the little man say : ` Now I will bring you luck , because you have a kind heart and be willing to share what you have with others .
There stand an old tree ; cut it down , and amongst it root you 'll find something . '
With that the little man take leave .
Then Dullhead fell to at once to hew down the tree , and when it fell he find amongst it root a goose , whose feather be all of pure gold .
He lift it out , carry it off , and take it with him to an inn where he mean to spend the night .
Now the landlord of the inn have three daughter , and when they saw the goose they be fill with curiosity a to what this wonderful bird could be , and each long to have one of it golden feather .
The eldest thought to herself : ` No doubt I shall soon find a good opportunity to pluck out one of it feather , ' and the first time Dullhead happen to leave the room she catch hold of the goose by it wing .
But , lo and behold !
her finger seem to stick fast to the goose , and she could not take her hand away .
Soon after the second daughter come in , and think to pluck a golden feather for herself too ; but hardly have she touch her sister than she stick fast as well .
At last the third sister come with the same intention , but the other two cry out : ` Keep off !
for Heaven 's sake , keep off ! '
The young sister could not imagine why she be to keep off , and think to herself : ` If they be both there , why should not I be there too ? '
So she spring to them ; but no sooner have she touch one of them than she stick fast to her .
So they all three have to spend the night with the goose .
Next morning Dullhead tuck the goose under his arm and go off , without in the least troubling himself about the three girl who be hang on to it .
They just have to run after him right or leave a best they could .
In the middle of a field they meet the parson , and when he saw this procession he cry : ` For shame , you bold girl !
What do you mean by run after a young fellow through the field like that ?
Do you call that proper behaviour ? '
And with that he catch the young girl by the hand to try and draw her away .
But directly he touch her he hang on himself , and have to run along with the rest of them .
Not long after the clerk come that way , and be much surprise to see the parson follow the footstep of three girl .
` Why , where be your reverence go so fast ? '
cry he ; ` do n't forget there be to be a christening to-day ; ' and he run after him , catch him by the sleeve , and hung on to it himself : As the five of them trot along in this fashion one after the other , two peasant be come from their work with their hoe .
On see them the parson call out and beg them to come and rescue him and the clerk .
But no sooner do they touch the clerk than they stick on too , and so there be seven of them run after Dullhead and his goose .
After a time they all come to a town where a King reign whose daughter be so serious and solemn that no one could ever manage to make her laugh .
So the King have decree that whoever should succeed in make her laugh should marry her .
When Dullhead hear this he march before the Princess with his goose and it appendage , and as soon a she saw these seven people continually run after each other she burst out laughing , and could not stop herself .
Then Dullhead claim her a his bride , but the King , who do not much fancy him a a son-in-law , make all sort of objection , and tell him he must first find a man who could drink up a whole cellarful of wine .
Dullhead bethink him of the little grey man , who could , he felt sure , help him ; so he go off to the forest , and on the very spot where he have cut down the tree he saw a man sit with a most dismal expression of face .
Dullhead ask him what he be take so much to heart , and the man answer : ' I do n't know how I be ever to quench this terrible thirst I be suffer from .
Cold water do n't suit me at all .
To be sure I 've empty a whole barrel of wine , but what be one drop on a hot stone ? ' '
I think I can help you , ' say Dullhead .
` Come with me , and you shall drink to your heart 's content . '
So he take him to the King 's cellar , and the man sit down before the huge cask and drank and drank till he drink up the whole content of the cellar before the day close .
Then Dullhead ask once more for his bride , but the King felt vex at the idea of a stupid fellow whom people call ` Dullhead ' carry off his daughter , and he begin to make fresh condition .
He require Dullhead to find a man who could eat a mountain of bread .
Dullhead do not wait to consider long but go straight off to the forest , and there on the same spot sit a man who be draw in a strap as tight a he could round his body , and make a most woeful face the while .
Said he : ` I 've eat up a whole oven full of loaf , but what 's the good of that to anyone who be as hungry a I be ?
I declare my stomach feel quite empty , and I must draw my belt tight if I 'm not to die of starvation . '
Dullhead be delight , and say : ` Get up and come with me , and you shall have plenty to eat , ' and he bring him to the King 's Court .
Now the King have give order to have all the flour in his kingdom bring together , and to have a huge mountain bake of it .
But the man from the wood just take up his stand before the mountain and begin to eat , and in one day it have all vanish .
For the third time Dullhead ask for his bride , but again the King try to make some evasion , and demand a ship ` which could sail on land or water !
When you come sail in such a ship , ' say he , ` you shall have my daughter without further delay . '
Again Dullhead start off to the forest , and there he find the little old grey man with whom he have share his cake , and who say : ' I have eat and I have drink for you , and now I will give you the ship .
I have do all this for you because you be kind and merciful to me . '
Then he give Dullhead a ship which could sail on land or water , and when the King saw it he felt he could no longer refuse him his daughter .
So they celebrate the wedding with great rejoicing ; and after the King 's death Dullhead succeed to the kingdom , and live happily with his wife for many year after .
-LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- Grimm .
THE SEVEN FOALS THERE be once upon a time a couple of poor folk who live in a wretched hut , far away from everyone else , in a wood .
They only just manage to live from hand to mouth , and have great difficulty in do even so much a that , but they have three son , and the young of them be call Cinderlad , for he do nothing else but lie and poke about among the ash .
One day the eldest lad say that he would go out to earn his living ; he soon get leave to do that , and set out on his way into the world .
He walk on and on for the whole day , and when night be begin to fall he come to a royal palace .
The King be stand outside on the step , and ask where he be go .
` Oh , I be go about seek a place , my father , ' say the youth .
` Wilt thou serve me , and watch my seven foal ? '
ask the King .
` If thou canst watch them for a whole day and tell me at night what they eat and drink , thou shalt have the Princess and half my kingdom , but if thou canst not , I will cut three red stripe on thy back . '
The youth think that it be very easy work to watch the foal , and that he could do it well enough .
Next morning , when day be begin to dawn , the King 's Master of the Horse let out the seven foal ; and they run away , and the youth after them just a it chance , over hill and dale , through wood end bog .
When the youth have run thus for a long time he begin to be tire , and when he have hold on a little long he be heartily weary of watch at all , and at the same moment he come to a cleft in a rock where an old woman be sit spin with her distaff in her hand .
As soon a she catch sight of the youth , who be run after the foal till the perspiration stream down his face , she cry : ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair for you . '
The lad be willing enough , so he sit down in the cleft of the rock beside the old hag , and lay his head on her knee , and she comb his hair all day while he lay there and give himself up to idleness .
When evening be draw near , the youth want to go . '
I may just as well go straight home again , ' say he , ` for it be no use to go to the King 's palace . '
` Wait till it be dusk , ' say the old hag , ` and then the King 's foal will pass by this place again , and you can run home with them ; no one will ever know that you have be lie here all day instead of watch the foal . '
So when they come she give the lad a bottle of water and a bit of moss , and tell him to show these to the King and say that this be what his seven foal ate and drank .
` Hast thou watch faithfully and well the whole day long ? '
say the King , when the lad come into his presence in the evening .
` Yes , that I have ! '
say the youth .
` Then you be able to tell me what it be that my seven foal eat and drink , ' say the King .
So the youth produce the bottle of water and the bit of moss which he have get from the old woman , say : ` Here you see their meat , and here you see their drink . '
Then the King know how his watching have be do , and fell into such a rage that he order his people to chase the youth back to his own home at once ; but first they be to cut three red stripe in his back , and rub salt into them .
When the youth reach home again , anyone can imagine what a state of mind he be in .
He have go out once to seek a place , he say , but never would he do such a thing again .
Next day the second son say that he would now go out into the world to seek his fortune .
His father and mother say ` No , ' and bid him look at his brother 's back , but the youth would not give up his design , and stick to it , and after a long , long time he get leave to go , and set forth on his way .
When he have walk all day he too come to the King 's palace , and the King be stand outside on the step , and ask where he be go ; and when the youth reply that he be go about in search of a place , the King say that he might enter into his service and watch his seven foal .
Then the King promise him the same punishment and the same reward that he have promise his brother .
The youth at once consent to this and enter into the King 's service , for he think he could easily watch the foal and inform the King what they eat and drank .
In the grey light of dawn the Master of the Horse let out the seven foal , and off they go again over hill and dale , and off go the lad after them .
But all go with him a it have go with his brother .
When he have run after the foal for a long , long time and be hot and tired , he pass by a cleft in the rock where an old woman be sit spin with a distaff , and she call to him : ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair . '
The youth like the thought of this , let the foal run where they choose , and seat himself in the cleft of the rock by the side of the old hag .
So there he sit with his head on her lap , take his ease the livelong day .
The foal come back in the evening , and then he too get a bit of moss and a bottle of water from the old hag , which thing he be to show to the King .
But when the King ask the youth : ` Canst thou tell me what my seven foal eat and drink ? '
and the youth show him the bit of moss and the bottle of water , and say : ` Yes here may you behold their meat , and here their drink , ' the King once more become wroth , and command that three red stripe should be cut on the lad 's back , that salt should be strew upon them , and that he should then be instantly chase back to his own home .
So when the youth get home again he too related all that have happen to him , and he too say that he have go out in search of a place once , but that never would he do it again .
On the third day Cinderlad want to set out .
He have a fancy to try to watch the seven foal himself , he say .
The two others laugh at him , and mock him .
` What I when all go so ill with u , do you suppose that you be go to succeed ?
You look like succeed -- you who have never do anything else but lie and poke about among the ash ! '
say they .
` Yes , I will go too , ' say Cinderlad , ` for I have take it into my head . '
The two brother laugh at him , and his father and mother beg him not to go , but all to no purpose , and Cinderlad set out on his way .
So when he have walk the whole day , he too come to the King 's palace a darkness begin to fall .
There stand the King outside on the step , and he ask whither he be bound . '
I be walk about in search of a place , ' say Cinderlad .
` From whence do you come , then ? '
inquire the King , for by this time he want to know a little more about the men before he take any of them into his service .
So Cinderlad tell him whence he come , and that he be brother to the two who have watch the seven foal for the King , and then he inquire if he might be allow to try to watch them on the following day .
` Oh , shame on them ! '
say the King , for it enrage him even to think of them .
` If thou art brother to those two , thou too art not good for much .
I have have enough of such fellow . '
` Well , but a I have come here , you might just give me leave to make the attempt , ' say Cinderlad .
` Oh , very well , if thou art absolutely determine to have thy back flay , thou may ` st have thine own way if thou wilt , ' say the King . '
I would much rather have the Princess , ' say Cinderlad .
Next morning , in the grey light of dawn , the Master of the Horse let out the seven foal again , and off they set over hill and dale , through wood and bog , and off go Cinderlad after them .
When he have run thus for a long time , he too come to the cleft in the rock .
There the old hag be once more sit spin from her distaff , and she cry to Cinderlad ; ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair for you . '
` Come to me , then ; come to me ! '
say Cinderlad , a he pass by jump and run , and keep tight hold of one of the foal ' tail .
When he have get safely past the cleft in the rock , the young foal say : ` Get on my back , for we have still a long way to go . '
So the lad do this .
And thus they journey onwards a long , long way .
` Dost thou see anything now ? '
say the Foal .
` No , ' say Cinderlad .
So they journey onwards a good bit far .
` Dost thou see anything now ? '
ask the Foal .
` Oh , no , ' say the lad .
When they have go thus for a long , long way , the Foal again ask : ` Dost thou see anything now ? '
` Yes , now I see something that be white , ' say Cinderlad .
` It look like the trunk of a great thick birch tree . '
` Yes , that be where we be to go in , ' say the Foal .
When they get to the trunk , the eldest foal break it down on one side , and then they saw a door where the trunk have be stand , and inside this there be a small room , and in the room there be scarcely anything but a small fire-place and a couple of bench , but behind the door hang a great rusty sword and a small pitcher .
` Canst thou wield that sword ? '
ask the Foal .
Cinderlad try , but could not do it ; so he have to take a draught from the pitcher , and then one more , and after that still another , and then he be able to wield the sword with perfect ease .
` Good , ' say the Foal ; ` and now thou must take the sword away with thee , and with it shalt thou cut off the head of all seven of u on thy wedding-day , and then we shall become prince again a we be before .
For we be brother of the Princess whom thou art to have when thou canst tell the King what we eat and drink , but there be a mighty Troll who have cast a spell over u .
When thou hast cut off our head , thou must take the great care to lay each head at the tail of the body to which it belong before , and then the spell which the Troll have cast upon u will lose all it power . '
Cinderlad promise to do this , and then they go on farther .
When they have travel a long , long way , the Foal say : ` Dost thou see anything ? '
` No , ' say Cinderlad .
So they go on a great distance farther .
` And now ? '
inquire the Foal , ` seest thou nothing now ? '
` Alas !
no , ' say Cinderlad .
So they travel onwards again , for many and many a mile , over hill and dale .
` Now , then , ' say the Foal , ` dost thou not see anything now ? '
` Yes , ' say Cinderlad ; ` now I see something like a bluish streak , far , far away . '
` That be a river , ' say the Foal , ` and we have to cross it . '
There be a long , handsome bridge over the river , and when they have get to the other side of it they again travel on a long , long way , and then once more the Foal inquire if Cinderlad saw anything .
Yes , this time he saw something that look black , far , far away , and be rather like a church tower .
` Yes , ' say the Foal , ` we shall go into that . '
When the Foals get into the churchyard they turn into men and look like the son of a king , and their clothes be so magnificent that they shine with splendour , and they go into the church and receive bread and wine from the priest , who be stand before the altar , and Cinderlad go in too .
But when the priest have lay his hand on the prince and read the blessing , they go out of the church again , and Cinderlad go out too , but he take with him a flask of wine and some consecrate bread .
No sooner have the seven prince come out into the churchyard than they become foal again , and Cinderlad get upon the back of the young , and they return by the way they have come , only they go much , much faster .
First they go over the bridge , and then past the trunk of the birch tree , and then past the old hag who sit in the cleft of the rock spinning , and they go by so fast that Cinderlad could not hear what the old hag screech after him , but just heard enough to understand that she be terribly enrage .
It be all but dark when they get back to the King at nightfall , and he himself be stand in the courtyard wait for them .
` Hast thou watch well and faithfully the whole day ? '
say the King to Cinderlad . '
I have do my best , ' reply Cinderlad .
` Then thou canst tell me what my seven foal eat and drink ? '
ask the King .
So Cinderlad pull out the consecrated bread and the flask of wine , and show them to the King .
` Here may you behold their meat , and here their drink , ' say he .
` Yes , diligently and faithfully hast thou watch , ' say the King , ` and thou shalt have the Princess and half the kingdom . '
So all be make ready for the wedding , and the King say that it be to be so stately and magnificent that everyone should hear of it , and everyone inquire about it .
But when they sit down to the marriage-feast , the bridegroom arose and go down to the stable , for he say that he have forget something which he must go and look to .
When he get there , he do what the foal have bid him , and cut off the head of all the seven .
First the eldest , and then the second , and so on accord to their age , and he be extremely careful to lay each head at the tail of the foal to which it have belong , and when that be do , all the foal become prince again .
When he return to the marriage-feast with the seven prince , the King be so joyful that he both kiss Cinderlad and clap him on the back , and his bride be still more delighted with him than she have be before .
` Half my kingdom be thine already , ' say the King , ` and the other half shall be thine after my death , for my son can get country and kingdom for themselves now that they have become prince again . '
Therefore , a all may well believe , there be joy and merriment at that wedding .
-LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE MARVELLOUS MUSICIAN THERE be once upon a time a marvellous musician .
One day he be wander through a wood all by himself , think now of one thing , now of another , till there be nothing else leave to think about .
Then he say to himself : ` Time hang very heavily on my hand when I 'm all alone in the wood .
I must try and find a pleasant companion . '
So he take his fiddle out , and fiddle till he wake the echo round .
After a time a wolf come through the thicket and trot up to the musician .
` Oh !
it 's a Wolf , be it ? '
say he .
` I 've not the small wish for his society . '
But the Wolf approach him and say : ` Oh , my dear musician , how beautifully you play !
I wish you 'd teach me how it 's do . '
` That 's easily learn , ' answer the fiddler ; ` you must only do exactly a I tell you . '
` Of course I will , ' reply the Wolf . '
I can promise that you will find me a most apt pupil . '
So they join company and go on their way together , and after a time they come to an old oak tree , which be hollow and have a crack in the middle of the trunk .
` Now , ' say the Musician , ` if you want to learn to fiddle , here 's your chance .
Lay your front paw in this crack . '
The Wolf do a he be tell , and the Musician quickly seize a stone , and wedge both his fore paw so firmly into the crack that he be hold there , a fast prisoner .
` Wait there till I return , ' say the Fiddler , and he go on his way .
After a time he say to himself again : ` Time hang very heavily on my hand when I 'm all alone in the wood ; I must try and find a companion . '
So he draw out his fiddle , and fiddle away lustily .
Presently a fox slunk through the tree .
` Aha I what have we here ? '
say the Musician . '
A fox ; well , I have n't the small desire for his company . '
The Fox come straight up to him and say : ` My dear friend , how beautifully you play the fiddle ; I would like to learn how you do it . '
` Nothing easier , ' say the Musician , ` if you 'll promise to do exactly a I tell you . '
` Certainly , ' answer the Fox , ` you have only to say the word . '
` Well , then , follow me , ' reply the Fiddler .
When they have go a bi of the way , they come to a path with high tree on each side .
Here the Musician halt , bend a stout hazel bough down to the ground from one side of the path , and put his foot on the end of it to keep it down .
Then he bend a branch down from the other side and say : ` Give me your left front paw , my little Fox , if you really wish to learn how it 's do . '
The Fox do a he be tell , and the Musician tie his front paw to the end of one of the branch .
` Now , my friend , ' he say , ` give me your right paw . '
This he bind to the other branch , and have carefully see that his knot be all secure , he step off the end of the branch , and they spring back , leave the poor Fox suspend in mid-air .
` Just you wait where you be till I return , ' say the Musician , and he go on his way again .
Once more he say to himself : ` Time hang heavily on my hand when I 'm all alone in the wood ; I must try and find another companion . '
So he take out his fiddle and play as merrily a before .
This time a little hare come run up at the sound .
` Oh !
here come a hare , ' say the Musician ; ` I 've not the small desire for his company . '
` How beautifully you play , dear Mr . Fiddler , ' say the little Hare . '
I wish I could learn how you do it . '
` It 's easily learnt , ' answer the Musician ; ` just do exactly a I tell you . '
` That I will , ' say the Hare , ` you will find me a most attentive pupil . '
They go on a bit together , till they come to a thin part of the wood , where they find an aspen tree grow .
The Musician bind a long cord round the little Hare 's neck , the other end of which he fasten to the tree .
` Now , my merry little friend , ' say the Musician , ` run twenty time round the tree . '
The little Hare obey , and when it have run twenty time round the tree , the cord have twist itself twenty time round the trunk , so that the poor little beast be hold a fast prisoner , and it might bite and tear as much a it like , it could n't free itself , and the cord only cut it tender neck .
` Wait there till I return , ' say the Musician , and go on his way .
In the meantime the Wolf have pull and bite and scratch at the stone , till at last he succeed in get his paw out .
Full of anger , he hurry after the Musician , determine when he meet him to tear him to piece .
When the Fox saw him run by , he call out as loud a he could : ` Brother Wolf , come to my rescue , the Musician have deceive me too . '
The Wolf pull the branch down , bite the cord in two , and set the Fox free .
So they go on their way together , both vow vengeance on the Musician .
They find the poor imprisoned little Hare , and have set him free also , they all set out to look for their enemy .
During this time the Musician have once more play his fiddle , and have be more fortunate in the result .
The sound pierce to the ear of a poor woodman , who instantly leave his work , and with his hatchet under his arm come to listen to the music .
` At last I 've get a proper sort of companion , ' say the Musician , ` for it be a human be I want all along , and not a wild animal . '
And he begin play so enchantingly that the poor man stand there a if bewitch , and his heart leapt for joy a he listen .
And a he stand thus , the Wolf and Fox and little Hare come up , and the woodman saw at once that they mean mischief .
He lift his glittering axe and place himself in front of the Musician , as much a to say : ` If you touch a hair of his head , beware , for you will have to answer for it to me . '
Then the beast be frighten , and they all three run back into the wood , and the Musician play the woodman one of his best tune , by way of thanks , and then continue his way .
-LRB- 32 -RRB- -LRB- 32 -RRB- Grimm .
THE STORY OF SIGURD -LRB- This be a very old story : the Danes who use to fight with the English in King Alfred 's time know this story .
They have carve on the rock picture of some of the thing that happen in the tale , and those carving may still be see .
Because it be so old and so beautiful the story be tell here again , but it have a sad end -- indeed it be all sad , and all about fight and kill , a might be expect from the Danes . -RRB-
ONCE upon a time there be a King in the North who have win many war , but now he be old .
Yet he take a new wife , and then another Prince , who want to have marry her , come up against him with a great army .
The old King go out and fought bravely , but at last his sword break , and he be wound and his men flee .
But in the night , when the battle be over , his young wife come out and search for him among the slain , and at last she find him , and ask whether he might be heal .
But he say ` No , ' his luck be go , his sword be break , and he must die .
And he tell her that she would have a son , and that son would be a great warrior , and would avenge him on the other King , his enemy .
And he bid her keep the broken piece of the sword , to make a new sword for his son , and that blade should be call Gram .
Then he die .
And his wife call her maid to her and say , ` Let u change clothes , and you shall be call by my name , and I by yours , lest the enemy find u . '
So this be do , and they hide in a wood , but there some stranger meet them and carry them off in a ship to Denmark .
And when they be bring before the King , he think the maid look like a Queen , and the Queen like a maid .
So he ask the Queen , ` How do you know in the dark of night whether the hour be wear to the morning ? '
And she say : ' I know because , when I be young , I use to have to rise and light the fire , and still I waken at the same time . ' '
A strange Queen to light the fire , ' think the King .
Then he ask the Queen , who be dress like a maid , ` How do you know in the dark of night whether the hour be wear near the dawn ? '
` My father give me a gold ring , ' say she , ` and always , ere the dawning , it grow cold on my finger . ' '
A rich house where the maid wear gold , ' say the King .
` Truly you be no maid , but a King 's daughter . '
So he treat her royally , and a time go on she have a son call Sigurd , a beautiful boy and very strong .
He have a tutor to be with him , and once the tutor bid him go to the King and ask for a horse .
` Choose a horse for yourself , ' say the King ; and Sigurd go to the wood , and there he meet an old man with a white beard , and say , ` Come !
help me in horse-choosing . '
Then the old man say , ` Drive all the horse into the river , and choose the one that swim across . '
So Sigurd drive them , and only one swam across .
Sigurd choose him : his name be Grani , and he come of Sleipnir 's breed , and be the best horse in the world .
For Sleipnir be the horse of Odin , the God of the North , and be as swift a the wind .
But a day or two later his tutor say to Sigurd , ` There be a great treasure of gold hidden not far from here , and it would become you to win it . '
But Sigurd answer , ' I have hear story of that treasure , and I know that the dragon Fafnir guard it , and he be so huge and wicked that no man dare to go near him . '
` He be no big than other dragon , ' say the tutor , ` and if you be as brave a your father you would not fear him . ' '
I be no coward , ' say Sigurd ; ` why do you want me to fight with this dragon ? '
Then his tutor , whose name be Regin , tell him that all this great hoard of red gold have once belong to his own father .
And his father have three son -- the first be Fafnir , the Dragon ; the next be Otter , who could put on the shape of an otter when he like ; and the next be himself , Regin , and he be a great smith and maker of sword .
Now there be at that time a dwarf call Andvari , who live in a pool beneath a waterfall , and there he have hide a great hoard of gold .
And one day Otter have be fish there , and have kill a salmon and eat it , and be sleep , like an otter , on a stone .
Then someone come by , and throw a stone at the otter and kill it , and flay off the skin , and take it to the house of Otter 's father .
Then he know his son be dead , and to punish the person who have kill him he say he must have the Otter 's skin fill with gold , and cover all over with red gold , or it should go bad with him .
Then the person who have kill Otter go down and catch the Dwarf who own all the treasure and take it from him .
Only one ring be leave , which the Dwarf wore , and even that be take from him .
Then the poor Dwarf be very angry , and he pray that the gold might never bring any but bad luck to all the men who might own it , for ever .
Then the otter skin be fill with gold and cover with gold , all but one hair , and that be cover with the poor Dwarf 's last ring .
But it bring good luck to nobody .
First Fafnir , the Dragon , kill his own father , and then he go and wallow on the gold , and would let his brother have none , and no man dare go near it .
When Sigurd hear the story he say to Regin : ` Make me a good sword that I may kill this Dragon . '
So Regin make a sword , and Sigurd try it with a blow on a lump of iron , and the sword break .
Another sword he make , and Sigurd break that too .
Then Sigurd go to his mother , and ask for the broken piece of his father 's blade , and give them to Regin .
And he hammer and work them into a new sword , so sharp that fire seem to burn along it edge .
Sigurd try this blade on the lump of iron , and it do not break , but split the iron in two .
Then he throw a lock of wool into the river , and when it float down against the sword it be cut into two piece .
So Sigurd say that sword would do .
But before he go against the Dragon he lead an army to fight the men who have kill his father , and he slew their King , and take all his wealth , and go home .
When he have be at home a few day , he ride out with Regin one morning to the heath where the Dragon use to lie .
Then he saw the track which the Dragon make when he go to a cliff to drink , and the track be a if a great river have roll along and leave a deep valley .
Then Sigurd go down into that deep place , and dig many pit in it , and in one of the pit he lay hidden with his sword drawn .
There he wait , and presently the earth begin to shake with the weight of the Dragon a he crawl to the water .
And a cloud of venom fly before him a he snort and roar , so that it would have be death to stand before him .
But Sigurd wait till half of him have crawl over the pit , and then he thrust the sword Gram right into his very heart .
Then the Dragon lash with his tail till stone break and tree crash about him .
Then he speak , a he die , and say : ` Whoever thou art that hast slay me this gold shall be thy ruin , and the ruin of all who own it . '
Sigurd say : ' I would touch none of it if by lose it I should never die .
But all men die , and no brave man let death frighten him from his desire .
Die thou , Fafnir , ' and then Fafnir die .
And after that Sigurd be call Fafnir 's Bane , and Dragonslayer .
Then Sigurd ride back , and meet Regin , and Regin ask him to roast Fafnir 's heart and let him taste of it .
So Sigurd put the heart of Fafnir on a stake , and roast it .
But it chance that he touch it with his finger , and it burn him .
Then he put his finger in his mouth , and so taste the heart of Fafnir .
Then immediately he understand the language of bird , and he hear the Woodpeckers say : ` There be Sigurd roast Fafnir 's heart for another , when he should taste of it himself and learn all wisdom . '
The next bird say : ` There lie Regin , ready to betray Sigurd , who trust him . '
The third bird say : ` Let him cut off Regin 's head , and keep all the gold to himself . '
The fourth bird say : ` That let him do , and then ride over Hindfell , to the place where Brynhild sleep . '
When Sigurd heard all this , and how Regin be plot to betray him , he cut off Regin 's head with one blow of the sword Gram .
Then all ` he bird break out singing : ` We know a fair maid , A fair maiden sleeping ; Sigurd , be not afraid , Sigurd , win thou the maid Fortune be keep .
` High over Hindfell Red fire be flame , There doth the maiden dwell She that should love thee well , Meet for thy taming .
` There must she sleep till thou Comest for her waking Rise up and ride , for now Sure she will swear the vow Fearless of break . '
Then Sigurd remember how the story go that somewhere , far away , there be a beautiful lady enchant .
She be under a spell , so that she must always sleep in a castle surround by flame fire ; there she must sleep for ever till there come a knight who would ride through the fire and waken her .
There he determine to go , but first he ride right down the horrible trail of Fafnir .
And Fafnir have live in a cave with iron door , a cave dug deep down in the earth , and full of gold bracelet , and crown , and ring ; and there , too , Sigurd find the Helm of Dread , a golden helmet , and whoever wear it be invisible .
All these he pile on the back of the good horse Grani , and then he ride south to Hindfell .
Now it be night , and on the crest of the hill Sigurd saw a red fire blaze up into the sky , and within the flame a castle , and a banner on the topmost tower .
Then he set the horse Grani at the fire , and he leap through it lightly , a if it have be through the heather .
So Sigurd go within the castle door , and there he saw someone sleeping , clothe all in armour .
Then he take the helmet off the head of the sleeper , and behold , she be a most beautiful lady .
And she waken and say , ` Ah !
be it Sigurd , Sigmund 's son , who have break the curse , and come here to waken me at last ? '
This curse come upon her when the thorn of the tree of sleep ran into her hand long ago a a punishment because she have displease Odin the God .
Long ago , too , she have vow never to marry a man who know fear , and dare not ride through the fence of flame fire .
For she be a warrior maid herself , and go arm into the battle like a man .
But now she and Sigurd love each other , and promise to be true to each other , and he give her a ring , and it be the last ring take from the dwarf Andvari .
Then Sigurd ride away , and he come to the house of a King who have a fair daughter .
Her name be Gudrun , and her mother be a witch .
Now Gudrun fell in love with Sigurd , but he be always talk of Brynhild , how beautiful she be and how dear .
So one day Gudrun 's witch mother put poppy and forgetful drug in a magical cup , and bid Sigurd drink to her health , and he drink , and instantly he forget poor Brynhild and he love Gudrun , and they be marry with great rejoicing .
Now the witch , the mother of Gudrun , want her son Gunnar to marry Brynhild , and she bid him ride out with Sigurd and go and woo her .
So forth they ride to her father 's house , for Brynhild have quite go out of Sigurd 's mind by reason of the witch 's wine , but she remember him and love him still .
Then Brynhild 's father tell Gunnar that she would marry none but him who could ride the flame in front of her enchanted tower , and thither they ride , and Gunnar set his horse at the flame , but he would not face it .
Then Gunnar try Sigurd 's horse Grani , but he would not move with Gunnar on his back .
Then Gunnar remember witchcraft that his mother have teach him , and by his magic he make Sigurd look exactly like himself , and he look exactly like Gunnar .
Then Sigurd , in the shape of Gunnar and in his mail , mount on Grani , and Grani leap the fence of fire , and Sigurd go in and find Brynhild , but he do not remember her yet , because of the forgetful medicine in the cup of the witch 's wine .
Now Brynhild have no help but to promise she would be his wife , the wife of Gunnar a she suppose , for Sigurd wear Gunnar 's shape , and she have swear to wed whoever should ride the flame .
And he give her a ring , and she give him back the ring he have give her before in his own shape a Sigurd , and it be the last ring of that poor dwarf Andvari .
Then he ride out again , and he and Gunnar change shape , and each be himself again , and they go home to the witch Queen 's , and Sigurd give the dwarf 's ring to his wife , Gudrun .
And Brynhild go to her father , and say that a King have come call Gunnar , and have ride the fire , and she must marry him .
` Yet I think , ' she say , ` that no man could have do this deed but Sigurd , Fafnir 's bane , who be my true love .
But he have forget me , and my promise I must keep . '
So Gunnar and Brynhild be marry , though it be not Gunnar but Sigurd in Gunnar 's shape , that have ride the fire .
And when the wedding be over and all the feast , then the magic of the witch 's wine go out of Sigurd 's brain , and he remember all .
He remember how he have free Brynhild from the spell , and how she be his own true love , and how he have forget and have marry another woman , and win Brynhild to be the wife of another man .
But he be brave , and he speak not a word of it to the others to make them unhappy .
Still he could not keep away the curse which be to come on every one who own the treasure of the dwarf Andvari , and his fatal golden ring .
And the curse soon come upon all of them .
For one day , when Brynhild and Gudrun be bath , Brynhild wad farthest out into the river , and say she do that to show she be Guirun 's superior .
For her husband , she say , have ride through the flame when no other man dare face it .
Then Gudrun be very angry , and say that it be Sigurd , not Gunnar , who have ride the flame , and have receive from Brynhild that fatal ring , the ring of the dwarf Andvari .
Then Brynhild saw the ring which Sigard have give to Gudrun , and she know it and know all , and she turn as pale a a dead woman , and go home .
All that even she never speak .
Next day she tell Gunnar , her husband , that he be a coward and a liar , for he have never ride the flame , but have send Sigurd to do it for him , and pretend that he have do it himself .
And she say he would never see her glad in his hall , never drink wine , never play chess , never embroider with the golden thread , never speak word of kindness .
Then she rent all her needlework asunder and wept aloud , so that everyone in the house hear her .
For her heart be break , and her pride be break in the same hour .
She have lose her true love , Sigurd , the slayer of Fafnir , and she be marry to a man who be a liar .
Then Sigurd come and try to comfort her , but she would not listen , and say she wish the sword stand fast in his heart .
` Not long to wait , ' he say , 'till the bitter sword stand fast in my heart , and thou will not live long when I be dead .
But , dear Brynhild , live and be comfort , and love Gunnar thy husband , and I will give thee all the gold , the treasure of the dragon Fafnir . '
Brynhild say : ` It be too late . '
Then Sigurd be so grieved and his heart so swell in his breast that it burst the steel ring of his shirt of mail .
Sigurd go out and Brynhild determine to slay him .
She mix serpent 's venom and wolf 's flesh , and give them in one dish to her husband 's young brother , and when he have taste them he be mad , and he go into Sigurd 's chamber while he sleep and pin him to the bed with a sword .
But Sigurd wake , and catch the sword Gram into his hand , and throw it at the man a he flee , and the sword cut him in twain .
Thus die Sigurd , Fafnir 's bane , whom no ten men could have slay in fair fight .
Then Gudrun waken and saw him dead , and she moan aloud , and Brynhild hear her and laugh ; but the kind horse Grani lay down and die of very grief .
And then Brynhild fell a-weeping till her heart broke .
So they attire Sigurd in all his golden armour , and build a great pile of wood on board his ship , and at night laid on it the dead Sigurd and the dead Brynhild , and the good horse , Grani , and set fire to it , and launch the ship .
And the wind bore it blaze out to sea , flame into the dark .
So there be Sigurd and Brynhild burn together , and the curse of the dwarf Andvari be fulfil .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Violet_Fairy_Book.txt.out
A TALE OF THE TONTLAWALD Long , long ago there stand in the midst of a country cover with lake a vast stretch of moorland call the Tontlawald , on which no man ever dare set foot .
From time to time a few bold spirit have be draw by curiosity to it border , and on their return have report that they have catch a glimpse of a ruin house in a grove of thick tree , and round about it be a crowd of being resemble men , swarm over the grass like bee .
The men be a dirty and rag a gipsy , and there be besides a quantity of old woman and half-naked child .
One night a peasant who be return home from a feast wander a little farther into the Tontlawald , and come back with the same story .
A countless number of woman and child be gather round a huge fire , and some be seat on the ground , while others dance strange dance on the smooth grass .
One old crone have a broad iron ladle in her hand , with which every now and then she stir the fire , but the moment she touch the glowing ash the child rush away , shriek like night owl , and it be a long while before they venture to steal back .
And besides all this there have once or twice be see a little old man with a long beard creep out of the forest , carry a sack big than himself .
The woman and child run by his side , weep and try to drag the sack from off his back , but he shake them off , and go on his way .
There be also a tale of a magnificent black cat as large a a foal , but men could not believe all the wonder tell by the peasant , and it be difficult to make out what be true and what be false in his story .
However , the fact remain that strange thing do happen there , and the King of Sweden , to whom this part of the country belong , more than once give order to cut down the haunt wood , but there be no one with courage enough to obey his command .
At length one man , bold than the rest , strike his axe into a tree , but his blow be follow by a stream of blood and shriek a of a human creature in pain .
The terrified woodcutter flee as fast a his leg would carry him , and after that neither order nor threat would drive anybody to the enchanted moor .
A few mile from the Tontlawald be a large village , where dwelt a peasant who have recently marry a young wife .
As not uncommonly happens in such case , she turn the whole house upside down , and the two quarrel and fight all day long .
By his first wife the peasant have a daughter call Elsa , a good quiet girl , who only want to live in peace , but this her stepmother would not allow .
She beat and cuff the poor child from morning till night , but a the stepmother have the whip-hand of her husband there be no remedy .
For two year Elsa suffer all this ill-treatment , when one day she go out with the other village child to pluck strawberry .
Carelessly they wander on , till at last they reach the edge of the Tontlawald , where the fine strawberry grow , make the grass red with their colour .
The child fling themselves down on the ground , and , after eat as many a they want , begin to pile up their basket , when suddenly a cry arose from one of the old boy : ` Run , run as fast a you can !
We be in the Tontlawald ! '
Quicker than lightning they spring to their foot , and rush madly away , all except Elsa , who have stray far than the rest , and have find a bed of the fine strawberry right under the tree .
Like the others , she hear the boy 's cry , but could not make up her mind to leave the strawberry .
` After all , what do it matter ? '
think she .
` The dweller in the Tontlawald can not be bad than my stepmother ' ; and look up she saw a little black dog with a silver bell on it neck come barking towards her , follow by a maiden clad all in silk .
` Be quiet , ' say she ; then turn to Elsa she add : ' I be so glad you do not run away with the other child .
Stay here with me and be my friend , and we will play delightful game together , and every day we will go and gather strawberry .
Nobody will dare to beat you if I tell them not .
Come , let u go to my mother ' ; and take Elsa 's hand she lead her deeper into the wood , the little black dog jump up beside them and bark with pleasure .
Oh !
what wonder and splendour unfold themselves before Elsa 's astonished eye !
She think she really must be in Heaven .
Fruit tree and bush load with fruit stood before them , while bird gayer than the bright butterfly sit in their branch and fill the air with their song .
And the bird be not shy , but let the girl take them in their hand , and stroke their gold and silver feather .
In the centre of the garden be the dwelling-house , shin with glass and precious stone , and in the doorway sit a woman in rich garment , who turn to Elsa 's companion and ask : ` What sort of a guest be you bring to me ? ' '
I find her alone in the wood , ' reply her daughter , ` and bring her back with me for a companion .
You will let her stay ? '
The mother laugh , but say nothing , only she look Elsa up and down sharply .
Then she tell the girl to come near , and stroke her cheek and speak kindly to her , ask if her parent be alive , and if she really would like to stay with them .
Elsa stoop and kiss her hand , then , kneel down , bury her face in the woman 's lap , and sob out : ` My mother have lie for many year under the ground .
My father be still alive , but I be nothing to him , and my stepmother beat me all the day long .
I can do nothing right , so let me , I pray you , stay with you .
I will look after the flock or do any work you tell me ; I will obey your light word ; only do not , I entreat you , send me back to her .
She will half kill me for not have come back with the other child . '
And the woman smile and answer , ` Well , we will see what we can do with you , ' and , rise , go into the house .
Then the daughter say to Elsa , ` Fear nothing , my mother will be your friend .
I saw by the way she look that she would grant your request when she have think over it , ' and , tell Elsa to wait , she enter the house to seek her mother .
Elsa meanwhile be toss about between hope and fear , and felt a if the girl would never come .
At last Elsa saw her cross the grass with a box in her hand .
` My mother say we may play together to-day , a she want to make up her mind what to do about you .
But I hope you will stay here always , a I ca n't bear you to go away .
Have you ever be on the sea ? '
` The sea ? '
ask Elsa , star ; ` what be that ?
I 've never hear of such a thing ! '
` Oh , I 'll soon show you , ' answer the girl , take the lid from the box , and at the very bottom lay a scrap of a cloak , a mussel shell , and two fish scale .
Two drop of water be glisten on the cloak , and these the girl shake on the ground .
In an instant the garden and lawn and everything else have vanish utterly , a if the earth have open and swallow them up , and as far a the eye could reach you could see nothing but water , which seem at last to touch heaven itself .
Only under their foot be a tiny dry spot .
Then the girl place the mussel shell on the water and take the fish scale in her hand .
The mussel shell grow big and big , and turn into a pretty little boat , which would have hold a dozen child .
The girl step in , Elsa very cautiously , for which she be much laugh at by her friend , who use the fish scale for a rudder .
The wave rock the girl softly , a if they be lie in a cradle , and they float on till they meet other boat fill with men , singing and make merry .
` We must sing you a song in return , ' say the girl , but a Elsa do not know any song , she have to sing by herself .
Elsa could not understand any of the men 's song , but one word , she notice , come over and over again , and that be ` Kisika . '
Elsa ask what it mean , and the girl reply that it be her name .
It be all so pleasant that they might have stay there for ever have not a voice cry out to them , ` Children , it be time for you to come home ! '
So Kisika take the little box out of her pocket , with the piece of cloth lie in it , and dip the cloth in the water , and lo !
they be stand close to a splendid house in the middle of the garden .
Everything round them be dry and firm , and there be no water anywhere .
The mussel shell and the fish scale be put back in the box , and the girl go in .
They enter a large hall , where four and twenty richly dress woman be sit round a table , look a if they be about to attend a wedding .
At the head of the table sit the lady of the house in a golden chair .
Elsa do not know which way to look , for everything that meet her eye be more beautiful than she could have dream possible .
But she sit down with the rest , and eat some delicious fruit , and think she must be in heaven .
The guest talk softly , but their speech be strange to Elsa , and she understand nothing of what be say .
Then the hostess turn round and whisper something to a maid behind her chair , and the maid leave the hall , and when she come back she bring a little old man with her , who have a beard long than himself .
He bow low to the lady and then stand quietly near the door .
` Do you see this girl ? '
say the lady of the house , point to Elsa . '
I wish to adopt her for my daughter .
Make me a copy of her , which we can send to her native village instead of herself . '
The old man look Elsa all up and down , a if he be take her measure , bow again to the lady , and leave the hall .
After dinner the lady say kindly to Elsa , ` Kisika have beg me to let you stay with her , and you have tell her you would like to live here .
Is that so ? '
At these word Elsa fell on her knee , and kiss the lady 's hand and foot in gratitude for her escape from her cruel stepmother ; but her hostess raise her from the ground and pat her head , say , ` All will go well as long a you be a good , obedient child , and I will take care of you and see that you want for nothing till you be grow up and can look after yourself .
My waiting-maid , who teach Kisika all sort of fine handiwork , shall teach you too . '
Not long after the old man come back with a mould full of clay on his shoulder , and a little covered basket in his left hand .
He put down his mould and his basket on the ground , take up a handful of clay , and make a doll as large a life .
When it be finish he bore a hole in the doll 's breast and put a bit of bread inside ; then , draw a snake out of the basket , force it to enter the hollow body .
` Now , ' he say to the lady , ` all we want be a drop of the maiden 's blood . '
When she hear this Elsa grow white with horror , for she think she be sell her soul to the evil one .
` Do not be afraid ! '
the lady hasten to say ; ` we do not want your blood for any bad purpose , but rather to give you freedom and happiness . '
Then she take a tiny golden needle , prick Elsa in the arm , and give the needle to the old man , who stick it into the heart of the doll .
When this be do he place the figure in the basket , promise that the next day they should all see what a beautiful piece of work he have finish .
When Elsa awake the next morning in her silken bed , with it soft white pillow , she saw a beautiful dress lie over the back of a chair , ready for her to put on .
A maid come in to comb out her long hair , and bring the fine linen for her use ; but nothing give Elsa so much joy a the little pair of embroidered shoe that she hold in her hand , for the girl have hitherto be force to run about barefoot by her cruel stepmother .
In her excitement she never give a thought to the rough clothes she have wear the day before , which have disappear a if by magic during the night .
Who could have take them ?
Well , she be to know that by-and-by .
But WE can guess that the doll have be dress in them , which be to go back to the village in her stead .
By the time the sun rise the doll have attain her full size , and no one could have tell one girl from the other .
Elsa start back when she meet herself a she look only yesterday .
` You must not be frighten , ' say the lady , when she notice her terror ; ` this clay figure can do you no harm .
It be for your stepmother , that she may beat it instead of you .
Let her flog it as hard a she will , it can never feel any pain .
And if the wicked woman do not come one day to a good mind your double will be able at last to give her the punishment she deserve . '
From this moment Elsa 's life be that of the ordinary happy child , who have be rock to sleep in her babyhood in a lovely golden cradle .
She have no care or trouble of any sort , and every day her task become easy , and the year that have go before seem more and more like a bad dream .
But the happier she grow the deeper be her wonder at everything around her , and the more firmly she be persuade that some great unknown power must be at the bottom of it all .
In the courtyard stand a huge granite block about twenty step from the house , and when meal time come round the old man with the long beard go to the block , draw out a small silver staff , and strike the stone with it three time , so that the sound could be hear a long way off .
At the third blow , out sprang a large golden cock , and stand upon the stone .
Whenever he crow and flap his wing the rock open and something come out of it .
First a long table cover with dish ready laid for the number of person who would be seat round it , and this fly into the house all by itself .
When the cock crow for the second time , a number of chair appear , and fly after the table ; then wine , apple , and other fruit , all without trouble to anybody .
After everybody have have enough , the old man strike the rock again .
The golden cock crow afresh , and back go dish , table , chair , and plat into the middle of the block .
When , however , it come to the turn of the thirteenth dish , which nobody ever want to eat , a huge black cat run up , and stand on the rock close to the cock , while the dish be on his other side .
There they all remain , till they be join by the old man .
He pick up the dish in one hand , tuck the cat under his arm , tell the cock to get on his shoulder , and all four vanish into the rock .
And this wonderful stone contain not only food , but clothes and everything you could possibly want in the house .
At first a language be often speak at meal which be strange to Elsa , but by the help of the lady and her daughter she begin slowly to understand it , though it be year before she be able to speak it herself .
One day she ask Kisika why the thirteenth dish come daily to the table and be send daily away untouched , but Kisika know no more about it than she do .
The girl must , however , have tell her mother what Elsa have say , for a few day later she speak to Elsa seriously : ` Do not worry yourself with useless wondering .
You wish to know why we never eat of the thirteenth dish ?
That , dear child , be the dish of hidden blessing , and we can not taste of it without bring our happy life here to an end .
And the world would be a great deal well if men , in their greed , do not seek to snatch every thing for themselves , instead of leave something a a thankoffering to the giver of the blessing .
Greed be man 's bad fault . '
The year pass like the wind for Elsa , and she grow into a lovely woman , with a knowledge of many thing that she would never have learn in her native village ; but Kisika be still the same young girl that she have be on the day of her first meeting with Elsa .
Each morning they both work for an hour at reading and writing , a they have always do , and Elsa be anxious to learn all she could , but Kisika much prefer childish game to anything else .
If the humour seize her , she would fling aside her task , take her treasure box , and go off to play in the sea , where no harm ever come to her .
` What a pity , ' she would often say to Elsa , ` that you have grow so big , you can not play with me any more . '
Nine year slip away in this manner , when one day the lady call Elsa into her room .
Elsa be surprise at the summons , for it be unusual , and her heart sank , for she fear some evil threaten her .
As she cross the threshold , she saw that the lady 's cheek be flush , and her eye full of tear , which she dry hastily , a if she would conceal them from the girl .
` Dearest child , ' she begin , ` the time have come when we must part . '
` Part ? '
cry Elsa , bury her head in the lady 's lap .
` No , dear lady , that can never be till death part u .
You once open your arm to me ; you can not thrust me away now . '
` Ah , be quiet , child , ' reply the lady ; ` you do not know what I would do to make you happy .
Now you be a woman , and I have no right to keep you here .
You must return to the world of men , where joy await you . '
` Dear lady , ' entreat Elsa again .
` Do not , I beseech you , send me from you .
I want no other happiness but to live and die beside you .
Make me your wait maid , or set me to any work you choose , but do not cast me forth into the world .
It would have be good if you have leave me with my stepmother , than first to have bring me to heaven and then send me back to a bad place . '
` Do not talk like that , dear child , ' reply the lady ; ` you do not know all that must be do to secure your happiness , however much it cost me .
But it have to be .
You be only a common mortal , who will have to die one day , and you can not stay here any long .
Though we have the body of men , we be not men at all , though it be not easy for you to understand why .
Some day or other you will find a husband who have be make expressly for you , and will live happily with him till death separate you .
It will be very hard for me to part from you , but it have to be , and you must make up your mind to it . '
Then she draw her golden comb gently through Elsa 's hair , and bid her go to bed ; but little sleep have the poor girl !
Life seem to stretch before her like a dark starless night .
Now let u look back a moment , and see what have be go on in Elsa 's native village all these year , and how her double have fare .
It be a well-known fact that a bad woman seldom become well a she grow old , and Elsa 's stepmother be no exception to the rule ; but a the figure that have take the girl 's place could feel no pain , the blow that be shower on her night and day make no difference .
If the father ever try to come to his daughter 's help , his wife turn upon him , and thing be rather bad than before .
One day the stepmother have give the girl a frightful beating , and then threaten to kill her outright .
Mad with rage , she seize the figure by the throat with both hand , when out come a black snake from her mouth and sting the woman 's tongue , and she fell dead without a sound .
At night , when the husband come home , he find his wife lie dead upon the ground , her body all swollen and disfigured , but the girl be nowhere to be see .
His scream bring the neighbour from their cottage , but they be unable to explain how it have all come about .
It be true , they say , that about mid-day they have hear a great noise , but a that be a matter of daily occurrence they do not think much of it .
The rest of the day all be still , but no one have see anything of the daughter .
The body of the dead woman be then prepared for burial , and her tired husband go to bed , rejoice in his heart that he have be deliver from the firebrand who have make his home unpleasant .
On the table he saw a slice of bread lying , and , be hungry , he eat it before go to sleep .
In the morning he too be find dead , and as swell a his wife , for the bread have be place in the body of the figure by the old man who make it .
A few day later he be place in the grave beside his wife , but nothing more be ever hear of their daughter .
All night long after her talk with the lady Elsa have weep and wail her hard fate in be cast out from her home which she love .
Next morning , when she get up , the lady place a gold seal ring on her finger , string a little golden box on a ribbon , and place it round her neck ; then she call the old man , and , force back her tear , take leave of Elsa .
The girl try to speak , but before she could sob out her thanks the old man have touch her softly on the head three time with his silver staff .
In an instant Elsa know that she be turn into a bird : wing spring from beneath her arm ; her foot be the foot of eagle , with long claw ; her nose curve itself into a sharp beak , and feather cover her body .
Then she soar high in the air , and float up towards the cloud , a if she have really be hatch an eagle .
For several day she fly steadily south , rest from time to time when her wing grow tired , for hunger she never felt .
And so it happen that one day she be fly over a dense forest , and below hound be bark fiercely , because , not have wing themselves , she be out of their reach .
Suddenly a sharp pain quiver through her body , and she fell to the ground , pierce by an arrow .
When Elsa recover her sens , she find herself lie under a bush in her own proper form .
What have befall her , and how she get there , lay behind her like a bad dream .
As she be wonder what she should do next the king 's son come rid by , and , see Elsa , sprang from his horse , and take her by the hand , sawing , ` Ah !
it be a happy chance that bring me here this morning .
Every night , for half a year , have I dream , dear lady , that I should one day find you in this wood .
And although I have pass through it hundreds of time in vain , I have never give up hope .
To-day I be go in search of a large eagle that I have shoot , and instead of the eagle I have find -- you . '
Then he take Elsa on his horse , and rode with her to the town , where the old king receive her graciously .
A few day later the wedding take place , and a Elsa be arrange the veil upon her hair fifty cart arrive laden with beautiful thing which the lady of the Tontlawald have send to Elsa .
And after the king 's death Elsa become queen , and when she be old she tell this story .
But that be the last that be ever hear of the Tontlawald .
-LRB- From Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FINEST LIAR IN THE WORLD At the edge of a wood there live an old man who have only one son , and one day he call the boy to him and say he want some corn ground , but the youth must be sure never to enter any mill where the miller be beardless .
The boy take the corn and set out , and before he have go very far he saw a large mill in front of him , with a beardless man stand in the doorway .
` Good greeting , beardless one ! '
cry he .
` Good greeting , sonny , ' reply the man .
` Could I grind something here ? '
` Yes , certainly !
I will finish what I be do and then you can grind as long a you like . '
But suddenly the boy remember what his father have tell him , and bade farewell to the man , and go far down the river , till he come to another mill , not know that as soon a his back be turn the beardless man have pick up a bag of corn and run hastily to the same mill before him .
When the boy reach the second mill , and saw a second beardless man sit there , he do not stop , and walk on till he come to a third mill .
But this time also the beardless man have be too clever for him , and have arrive first by another road .
When it happen a fourth time the boy grow cross , and say to himself , ` It be no good go on ; there seem to be a beardless man in every mill ' ; and he take his sack from his back , and make up his mind to grind his corn where he be .
The beardless man finish grind his own corn , and when he have do he say to the boy , who be begin to grind his , ` Suppose , sonny , we make a cake of what you have there . '
Now the boy have be rather uneasy when he recollect his father 's word , but he think to himself , ` What be do can not be undone , ' and answer , ` Very well , so let it be . '
Then the beardless one get up , throw the flour into the tub , and make a hole in the middle , tell the boy to fetch some water from the river in his two hand , to mix the cake .
When the cake be ready for bake they put it on the fire , and cover it with hot ash , till it be cook through .
Then they lean it up against the wall , for it be too big to go into a cupboard , and the beardless one say to the boy : ` Look here , sonny : if we share this cake we shall neither of u have enough .
Let u see who can tell the big lie , and the one who lie the best shall have the whole cake . '
The boy , not know what else to do , answer , ` All right ; you begin . '
So the beardless one begin to lie with all his might , and when he be tire of invent new lie the boy say to him , ` My good fellow , if THAT be all you can do it be not much !
Listen to me , and I will tell you a true story .
` In my youth , when I be an old man , we have a quantity of beehive .
Every morning when I get up I count them over , and it be quite easy to number the bee , but I never could reckon the hive properly .
One day , a I be count the bee , I discover that my best bee be miss , and without lose a moment I saddle a cock and go out to look for him .
I trace him as far a the shore , and know that he have cross the sea , and that I must follow .
When I have reach the other side I find a man have harness my bee to a plough , and with his help be sow millet seed . '
`` That be my bee ! ''
I shout .
`` Where do you get him from ? '' '
`` Brother , '' reply the man , `` if he be yours , take him . ''
And he not only give me back my bee , but a sack of millet seed into the bargain , because he have make use of my bee .
Then I put the bag on my shoulder , take the saddle from the cock , and place it on the back of the bee , which I mount , lead the cock by a string , so that he should have a rest .
As we be fly home over the sea one of the string that hold the bag of millet break in two , and the sack drop straight into the ocean .
It be quite lose , of course , and there be no use think about it , and by the time we be safe back again night have come .
I then get down from my bee , and let him loose , that he might get his supper , give the cock some hay , and go to sleep myself .
But when I awake with the sun what a scene meet my eye !
During the night wolf have come and have eat my bee .
And honey lay ankle-deep in the valley and knee-deep on the hill .
Then I begin to consider how I could best collect some , to take home with me .
` Now it happen that I have with me a small hatchet , and this I take to the wood , hop to meet some animal which I could kill , whose skin I might turn into a bag .
As I enter the forest I saw two roe-deer hop on one foot , so I slew them with a single blow , and make three bag from their skin , all of which I fill with honey and place on the back of the cock .
At length I reach home , where I be tell that my father have just be bear , and that I must go at once to fetch some holy water to sprinkle him with .
As I go I turn over in my mind if there be no way for me to get back my millet seed , which have drop into the sea , and when I arrive at the place with the holy water I saw the seed have fall on fruitful soil , and be grow before my eye .
And more than that , it be even cut by an invisible hand , and make into a cake .
` So I take the cake as well a the holy water , and be fly back with them over the sea , when there fell a great rain , and the sea be swell , and sweep away my millet cake .
Ah , how vexed I be at it loss when I be safe on earth again .
` Suddenly I remember that my hair be very long .
If I stand it touch the ground , although if I be sit it only reach my ear .
I seize a knife and cut off a large lock , which I plait together , and when night come tie it into a knot , and prepare to use it for a pillow .
But what be I to do for a fire ?
A tinder box I have , but no wood .
Then it occur to me that I have stick a needle in my clothes , so I take the needle and split it in piece , and light it , then lay myself down by the fire and go to sleep .
But ill-luck still pursue me .
While I be sleep a spark from the fire light on the hair , which be burn up in a moment .
In despair I throw myself on the ground , and instantly sink in it as far a my waist .
I struggle to get out , but only fell in further ; so I run to the house , seize a spade , dig myself out , and take home the holy water .
On the way I notice that the ripe field be full of reaper , and suddenly the air become so frightfully hot that the men drop down in a faint .
Then I call to them , `` Why do n't you bring out our mare , which be as tall a two day , and as broad a half a day , and make a shade for yourselves ? ''
My father hear what I say and jump quickly on the mare , and the reaper work with a will in the shadow , while I snatch up a wooden pail to bring them some water to drink .
When I get to the well everything be frozen hard , so in order to draw some water I have to take off my head and break the ice with it .
As I draw near them , carry the water , the reaper all cry out , `` Why , what have become of your head ? ''
I put up my hand and discover that I really have no head , and that I must have leave it in the well .
I run back to look for it , but find that meanwhile a fox which be pass by have pull my head out of the water , and be tear at my brain .
I steal cautiously up to him , and give him such a kick that he utter a loud scream , and let fall a parchment on which be write , `` The cake be mine , and the beardless one go empty-handed . '' '
With these word the boy rise , take the cake , and go home , while the beardless one remain behind to swallow his disappointment .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE STORY OF THREE WONDERFUL BEGGARS There once live a merchant whose name be Mark , and whom people call ` Mark the Rich . '
He be a very hard-hearted man , for he could not bear poor people , and if he catch sight of a beggar anywhere near his house , he would order the servant to drive him away , or would set the dog at him .
One day three very poor old men come beg to the door , and just a he be go to let the fierce dog loose on them , his little daughter , Anastasia , creep close up to him and say : ` Dear daddy , let the poor old men sleep here to-night , do -- to please me . '
Her father could not bear to refuse her , and the three beggar be allow to sleep in a loft , and at night , when everyone in the house be fast asleep , little Anastasia get up , climb up to the loft , and peep in .
The three old men stand in the middle of the loft , lean on their stick , with their long grey beard flow down over their hand , and be talk together in low voice .
` What news be there ? '
ask the eldest .
` In the next village the peasant Ivan have just have his seventh son .
What shall we name him , and what fortune shall we give him ? '
say the second .
The third whisper , ` Call him Vassili , and give him all the property of the hard-hearted man in whose loft we stand , and who want to drive u from his door . '
After a little more talk the three make themselves ready and crept softly away .
Anastasia , who have hear every word , run straight to her father , and tell him all .
Mark be very much surprise ; he think , and think , and in the morning he drive to the next village to try and find out if such a child really have be bear .
He go first to the priest , and ask him about the child in his parish .
` Yesterday , ' say the priest , ' a boy be bear in the poor house in the village .
I name the unlucky little thing `` Vassili . ''
He be the seventh son , and the eldest be only seven year old , and they hardly have a mouthful amongst them all .
Who can be get to stand godfather to such a little beggar boy ? '
The merchant 's heart beat fast , and his mind be full of bad thought about that poor little baby .
He would be godfather himself , he say , and he order a fine christening feast ; so the child be bring and christen , and Mark be very friendly to it father .
After the ceremony be over he take Ivan aside and say : ` Look here , my friend , you be a poor man .
How can you afford to bring up the boy ?
Give him to me and I 'll make something of him , and I 'll give you a present of a thousand crown .
Is that a bargain ? '
Ivan scratch his head , and think , and think , and then he agree .
Mark count out the money , wrap the baby up in a fox skin , lay it in the sledge beside him , and drive back towards home .
When he have drive some mile he draw up , carry the child to the edge of a steep precipice and throw it over , mutter , ` There , now try to take my property ! '
Very soon after this some foreign merchant travel along that same road on the way to see Mark and to pay the twelve thousand crown which they owe him .
As they be pass near the precipice they hear a sound of cry , and on look over they saw a little green meadow wedge in between two great heap of snow , and on the meadow lay a baby amongst the flower .
The merchant pick up the child , wrap it up carefully , and drive on .
When they saw Mark they tell him what a strange thing they have find .
Mark guess at once that the child must be his godson , ask to see him , and say : ` That 's a nice little fellow ; I should like to keep him .
If you will make him over to me , I will let you off your debt . '
The merchant be very pleased to make so good a bargain , leave the child with Mark , and drive off .
At night Mark take the child , put it in a barrel , fasten the lid tight down , and throw it into the sea .
The barrel float away to a great distance , and at last it float close up to a monastery .
The monk be just spread out their net to dry on the shore , when they hear the sound of cry .
It seem to come from the barrel which be bob about near the water 's edge .
They draw it to land and open it , and there be a little child !
When the abbot hear the news , he decide to bring up the boy , and name him ` Vassili . '
The boy live on with the monk , and grow up to be a clever , gentle , and handsome young man .
No one could read , write , or sing good than he , and he do everything so well that the abbot make him wardrobe keeper .
Now , it happen about this time that the merchant , Mark , come to the monastery in the course of a journey .
The monk be very polite to him and show him their house and church and all they have .
When he go into the church the choir be sing , and one voice be so clear and beautiful , that he ask who it belong to .
Then the abbot tell him of the wonderful way in which Vassili have come to them , and Mark saw clearly that this must be his godson whom he have twice try to kill .
He say to the abbot : ' I ca n't tell you how much I enjoy that young man 's singing .
If he could only come to me I would make him overseer of all my business .
As you say , he be so good and clever .
Do spare him to me .
I will make his fortune , and will present your monastery with twenty thousand crown . '
The abbot hesitate a good deal , but he consult all the other monk , and at last they decide that they ought not to stand in the way of Vassili 's good fortune .
Then Mark write a letter to his wife and give it to Vassili to take to her , and this be what be in the letter : ` When the bearer of this arrive , take him into the soap factory , and when you pass near the great boiler , push him in .
If you do n't obey my order I shall be very angry , for this young man be a bad fellow who be sure to ruin u all if he live . '
Vassili have a good voyage , and on land set off on foot for Mark 's home .
On the way he meet three beggar , who ask him : ` Where be you go , Vassili ? ' '
I be go to the house of Mark the Merchant , and have a letter for his wife , ' reply Vassili .
` Show u the letter . '
Vassili hand them the letter .
They blow on it and give it back to him , say : ` Now go and give the letter to Mark 's wife .
You will not be forsake . '
Vassili reach the house and give the letter .
When the mistress read it she could hardly believe her eye and call for her daughter .
In the letter be write , quite plainly : ` When you receive this letter , get ready for a wedding , and let the bearer be marry next day to my daughter , Anastasia .
If you do n't obey my order I shall be very angry . '
Anastasia saw the bearer of the letter and he please her very much .
They dress Vassili in fine clothes and next day he be marry to Anastasia .
In due time , Mark return from his travel .
His wife , daughter , and son-in-law all go out to meet him .
When Mark saw Vassili he fly into a terrible rage with his wife .
` How dared you marry my daughter without my consent ? '
he ask . '
I only carry out your order , ' say she .
` Here be your letter . '
Mark read it .
It certainly be his handwriting , but by no mean his wish .
` Well , ' think he , ` you 've escape me three time , but I think I shall get the good of you now . '
And he wait a month and be very kind and pleasant to his daughter and her husband .
At the end of that time he say to Vassili one day , ' I want you to go for me to my friend the Serpent King , in his beautiful country at the world 's end .
Twelve year ago he build a castle on some land of mine .
I want you to ask for the rent for those twelve year and also to find out from him what have become of my twelve ship which sail for his country three year ago . '
Vassili dare not disobey .
He say good-bye to his young wife , who cry bitterly at parting , hang a bag of biscuit over his shoulder , and set out .
I really can not tell you whether the journey be long or short .
As he tramp along he suddenly hear a voice say : ` Vassili !
where be you go ? '
Vassili look about him , and , see no one , call out : ` Who speak to me ? ' '
I do ; this old wide-spreading oak .
Tell me where you be go . ' '
I be go to the Serpent King to receive twelve year ' rent from him . '
` When the time come , remember me and ask the king : `` Rotten to the root , half dead but still green , stand the old oak .
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? '' '
Vassili go on further .
He come to a river and get into the ferryboat .
The old ferryman ask : ` Are you go far , my friend ? ' '
I be go to the Serpent King . '
` Then think of me and say to the king : `` For thirty year the ferryman have row to and fro .
Will the tired old man have to row much long ? '' '
` Very well , ' say Vassili ; ` I 'll ask him . '
And he walk on .
In time he come to a narrow strait of the sea and across it lay a great whale over whose back people walk and drive a if it have be a bridge or a road .
As he step on it the whale say , ` Do tell me where you be go . ' '
I be go to the Serpent King . '
And the whale beg : ` Think of me and say to the king : `` The poor whale have be lie three year across the strait , and men and horse have nearly trample his back into his rib .
Is he to lie there much long ? '' ' '
I will remember , ' say Vassili , and he go on .
He walk , and walk , and walk , till he come to a great green meadow .
In the meadow stand a large and splendid castle .
Its white marble wall sparkle in the light , the roof be cover with mother o ' pearl , which shine like a rainbow , and the sun glow like fire on the crystal window .
Vassili walk in , and go from one room to another astonish at all the splendour he saw .
When he reach the last room of all , he find a beautiful girl sit on a bed .
As soon a she saw him she say : ` Oh , Vassili , what bring you to this accursed place ? '
Vassili tell her why he have come , and all he have see and hear on the way .
The girl say : ` You have not be send here to collect rent , but for your own destruction , and that the serpent may devour you . '
She have not time to say more , when the whole castle shook , and a rustling , hissing , groan sound be hear .
The girl quickly push Vassili into a chest under the bed , lock it and whisper : ` Listen to what the serpent and I talk about . '
Then she rise up to receive the Serpent King .
The monster rush into the room , and throw itself pant on the bed , cry : ` I 've fly half over the world .
I 'm tired , VERY tired , and want to sleep -- scratch my head . '
The beautiful girl sit down near him , stroke his hideous head , and say in a sweet coaxing voice : ` You know everything in the world .
After you leave , I have such a wonderful dream .
Will you tell me what it mean ? '
` Out with it then , quick !
What be it ? ' '
I dream I be walk on a wide road , and an oak tree say to me : `` Ask the king this : Rotten at the root , half dead , and yet green stand the old oak .
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? '' '
` It must stand till some one come and push it down with his foot .
Then it will fall , and under it root will be find more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich have get . '
` Then I dream I come to a river , and the old ferryman say to me : `` For thirty year 's the ferryman have row to and fro .
Will the tired old man have to row much long ? '' '
` That depend on himself .
If some one get into the boat to be ferry across , the old man have only to push the boat off , and go his way without look back .
The man in the boat will then have to take his place . '
` And at last I dream that I be walk over a bridge make of a whale 's back , and the living bridge speak to me and say : `` Here have I be stretch out these three year , and men and horse have trample my back down into my rib .
Must I lie here much long ? '' '
` He will have to lie there till he have throw up the twelve ship of Mark the Rich which he swallow .
Then he may plunge back into the sea and heal his back . '
And the Serpent King close his eye , turn round on his other side , and begin to snore so loud that the window rattle .
In all haste the lovely girl help Vassili out of the chest , and show him part of his way back .
He thank her very politely , and hurry off .
When he reach the strait the whale ask : ` Have you think of me ? '
` Yes , as soon a I be on the other side I will tell you what you want to know . '
When he be on the other side Vassili say to the whale : ` Throw up those twelve ship of Mark 's which you swallow three year ago . '
The great fish heave itself up and throw up all the twelve ship and their crew .
Then he shake himself for joy , and plunge into the sea .
Vassili go on further till he reach the ferry , where the old man ask : ` Did you think of me ? '
` Yes , and as soon a you have ferry me across I will tell you what you want to know . '
When they have cross over , Vassili say : ` Let the next man who come stay in the boat , but do you step on shore , push the boat off , and you will be free , and the other man must take your place .
Then Vassili go on further still , and soon come to the old oak tree , push it with his foot , and it fell over .
There , at the root , be more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich have .
And now the twelve ship which the whale have throw up come sail along and anchor close by .
On the deck of the first ship stand the three beggar whom Vassili have meet formerly , and they say : ` Heaven have bless you , Vassili . '
Then they vanish away and he never saw them again .
The sailor carry all the gold and silver into the ship , and then they set sail for home with Vassili on board .
Mark be more furious than ever .
He have his horse harness and drive off himself to see the Serpent King and to complain of the way in which he have be betray .
When he reach the river he spring into the ferryboat .
The ferryman , however , do not get in but push the boat off ... Vassili lead a good and happy life with his dear wife , and his kind mother-in-law live with them .
He help the poor and fed and clothe the hungry and naked and all Mark 's rich become his .
For many year Mark have be ferry people across the river .
His face be wrinkle , his hair and beard be snow white , and his eye be dim ; but still he row on .
-LRB- From the Serbian . -RRB-
SCHIPPEITARO It be the custom in old time that as soon a a Japanese boy reach manhood he should leave his home and roam through the land in search of adventure .
Sometimes he would meet with a young man bent on the same business a himself , and then they would fight in a friendly manner , merely to prove which be the strong , but on other occasion the enemy would turn out to be a robber , who have become the terror of the neighbourhood , and then the battle be in deadly earnest .
One day a youth start off from his native village , resolve never to come back till he have do some great deed that would make his name famous .
But adventure do not seem very plentiful just then , and he wander about for a long time without meet either with fierce giant or distressed damsel .
At last he saw in the distance a wild mountain , half cover with a dense forest , and think that this promise well at once take the road that lead to it .
The difficulty he meet with -- huge rock to be climb , deep river to be cross , and thorny tract to be avoid -- only serve to make his heart beat quicker , for he be really brave all through , and not merely when he could not help himself , like a great many people .
But in spite of all his effort he could not find his way out of the forest , and he begin to think he should have to pass the night there .
Once more he strain his eye to see if there be no place in which he could take shelter , and this time he catch sight of a small chapel in a little clearing .
He hasten quickly towards it , and curl himself up in a warm corner soon fell asleep .
Not a sound be hear through the whole forest for some hour , but at midnight there suddenly arise such a clamour that the young man , tire a he be , start broad awake in an instant .
Peeping cautiously between the wooden pillar of the chapel , he saw a troop of hideous cat , dance furiously , make the night horrible with their yell .
The full moon light up the weird scene , and the young warrior gaze with astonishment , take great care to keep still , l he should be discover .
After some time he think that in the midst of all their shriek he could make out the word , ` Do not tell Schippeitaro !
Keep it hidden and secret !
Do not tell Schippeitaro ! '
Then , the midnight hour have pass , they all vanish , and the youth be leave alone .
Exhausted by all that have be go on round him , he fling himself on the ground and slept till the sun rise .
The moment he wake he felt very hungry , and begin to think how he could get something to eat .
So he get up and walk on , and before he have go very far be lucky enough to find a little side-path , where he could trace men 's footstep .
He follow the track , and by-and-by come on some scatter hut , beyond which lay a village .
Delighted at this discovery , he be about to hasten to the village when he hear a woman 's voice weeping and lamenting , and call on the men to take pity on her and help her .
The sound of her distress make him forget he be hungry , and he stride into the hut to find out for himself what be wrong .
But the men whom he ask only shake their head and tell him it be not a matter in which he could give any help , for all this sorrow be cause by the Spirit of the Mountain , to whom every year they be bind to furnish a maiden for him to eat .
` To-morrow night , ' say they , ` the horrible creature will come for his dinner , and the cry you have hear be utter by the girl before you , upon whom the lot have fall . '
And when the young man ask if the girl be carry off straight from her home , they answer no , but that a large cask be set in the forest chapel , and into this she be fasten .
As he listen to this story , the young man be fill with a great longing to rescue the maiden from her dreadful fate .
The mention of the chapel set him thinking of the scene of the previous night , and he go over all the detail again in his mind .
` Who be Schippeitaro ? '
he suddenly ask ; ` can any of you tell me ? '
` Schippeitaro be the great dog that belong to the overseer of our prince , ' say they ; ` and he live not far away . '
And they begin to laugh at the question , which seem to them so odd and useless .
The young man do not laugh with them , but instead leave the hut and go straight to the owner of the dog , whom he beg to lend him the animal just for one night .
Schippeitaro 's master be not at all willing to give him in charge to a man of whom he know nothing , but in the end he consent , and the youth lead the dog away , promise faithfully to return him next day to his master .
He next hurry to the hut where the maiden live , and entreat her parent to shut her up safely in a closet , after which he take Schippeitaro to the cask , and fasten him into it .
In the evening he know that the cask would be place in the chapel , so he hide himself there and wait .
At midnight , when the full moon appear above the top of the mountain , the cat again fill the chapel and shriek and yell and dance a before .
But this time they have in their midst a huge black cat who seem to be their king , and whom the young man guess to be the Spirit of the Mountain .
The monster look eagerly about him , and his eye sparkle with joy when he saw the cask .
He bound high into the air with delight and uttered cry of pleasure ; then he draw near and undo the bolt .
But instead of fasten his teeth in the neck of a beautiful maiden , Schippeitaro 's teeth be fasten in HIM , and the youth run up and cut off his head with his sword .
The other cat be so astonish at the turn thing have take that they forget to run away , and the young man and Schippeitaro between them kill several more before they think of escape .
At sunrise the brave dog be take back to his master , and from that time the mountain girl be safe , and every year a feast be hold in memory of the young warrior and the dog Schippeitaro .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE THREE PRINCES AND THEIR BEASTS -LRB- LITHUANIAN FAIRY TALE -RRB- Once on a time there be three prince , who have a step-sister .
One day they all set out hunt together .
When they have go some way through a thick wood they come on a great grey wolf with three cub .
Just a they be go to shoot , the wolf speak and say , ` Do not shoot me , and I will give each of you one of my young one .
It will be a faithful friend to you . '
So the prince go on their way , and a little wolf follow each of them .
Soon after they come on a lioness with three cub .
And she too beg them not to shoot her , and she would give each of them a cub .
And so it happen with a fox , a hare , a boar , and a bear , till each prince have quite a following of young beast pad along behind him .
Towards even they come to a clearing in the wood , where three birch grow at the crossing of three road .
The eldest prince take an arrow , and shot it into the trunk of one of the birch tree .
Turning to his brother he say : ` Let each of u mark one of these tree before we part on different way .
When any one of u come back to this place , he must walk round the tree of the other two , and if he see blood flow from the mark in the tree he will know that that brother be dead , but if milk flow he will know that his brother be alive . '
So each of the prince do a the eldest brother have say , and when the three birch be mark by their arrow they turn to their step-sister and ask her with which of them she mean to live .
` With the eldest , ' she answer .
Then the brother separate from each other , and each of them set out down a different road , follow by their beast .
And the step-sister go with the eldest prince .
After they have go a little way along the road they come into a forest , and in one of the deep glade they suddenly find themselves opposite a castle in which there live a band of robber .
The prince walk up to the door and knock .
The moment it be open the beast rush in , and each seize on a robber , kill him , and drag the body down to the cellar .
Now , one of the robber be not really kill , only badly wound , but he lay quite still and pretend to be dead like the others .
Then the prince and his step-sister enter the castle and take up their abode in it .
The next morning the prince go out hunting .
Before leave he tell his step-sister that she might go into every room in the house except into the cave where the dead robber lay .
But as soon a his back be turn she forget what he have say , and have wander through all the other room she go down to the cellar and open the door .
As soon a she look in the robber who have only pretend to be dead sit up and say to her : ` Do n't be afraid .
Do what I tell you , and I will be your friend .
If you marry me you will be much happy with me than with your brother .
But you must first go into the sitting-room and look in the cupboard .
There you will find three bottle .
In one of them there be a healing ointment which you must put on my chin to heal the wound ; then if I drink the content of the second bottle it will make me well , and the third bottle will make me strong than I ever be before .
Then , when your brother come back from the wood with his beast you must go to him and say , `` Brother , you be very strong .
If I be to fasten your thumb behind your back with a stout silk cord , could you wrench yourself free ? ''
And when you see that he can not do it , call me . '
When the brother come home , the step-sister do a the robber have tell her , and fasten her brother 's thumb behind his back .
But with one wrench he set himself free , and say to her , ` Sister , that cord be not strong enough for me . '
The next day he go back to the wood with his beast , and the robber tell her that she must take a much stouter cord to bind his thumb with .
But again he free himself , though not so easily a the first time , and he say to his sister : ` Even that cord be not strong enough . '
The third day , on his return from the wood he consent to have his strength test for the last time .
So she take a very strong cord of silk , which she have prepare by the robber 's advice , and this time , though the prince pull and tug with all his might , he could not break the cord .
So he call to her and say : ` Sister , this time the cord be so strong I can not break it .
Come and unfasten it for me . '
But instead of come she call to the robber , who rush into the room brandish a knife , with which he prepare to attack the prince .
But the prince speak and say : ` Have patience for one minute .
I would like before I die to blow three blast on my hunting horn -- one in this room , one on the stair , and one in the courtyard . '
So the robber consent , and the prince blow the horn .
At the first blast , the fox , which be asleep in the cage in the courtyard , awoke , and know that his master need help .
So he awake the wolf by flick him across the eye with his brush .
Then they awake the lion , who spring against the door of the cage with might and main , so that it fell in splinter on the ground , and the beast be free .
Rushing through the court to their master 's aid , the fox gnaw the cord in two that bind the prince 's thumb behind his back , and the lion flung himself on the robber , and when he have kill him and tear him in piece each of the beast carry off a bone .
Then the prince turn to the step-sister and say : ' I will not kill you , but I will leave you here to repent . '
And he fasten her with a chain to the wall , and put a great bowl in front of her and say , ' I will not see you again till you have fill this bowl with your tear . '
So say , he call his beast , and set out on his travel .
When he have go a little way he come to an inn .
Everyone in the inn seem so sad that he ask them what be the matter .
` Ah , ' reply they , ` to-day our king 's daughter be to die .
She be to be hand over to a dreadful nine-headed dragon . '
Then the prince say : ` Why should she die ?
I be very strong , I will save her . '
And he set out to the sea-shore , where the dragon be to meet the princess .
And a he wait with his beast round him a great procession come along , accompany the unfortunate princess : and when the shore be reach all the people leave her , and return sadly to their house .
But the prince remain , and soon he saw a movement in the water a long way off .
As it come nearer , he know what it be , for skim swiftly along the water come a monster dragon with nine head .
Then the prince take counsel with his beast , and a the dragon approach the shore the fox draw his brush through the water and blind the dragon by scatter the salt water in his eye , while the bear and the lion throw up more water with their paw , so that the monster be bewilder and could see nothing .
Then the prince rush forward with his sword and kill the dragon , and the beast tear the body in piece .
Then the princess turn to the prince and thank him for deliver her from the dragon , and she say to him : ` Step into this carriage with me , and we will drive back to my father 's palace . '
And she give him a ring and half of her handkerchief .
But on the way back the coachman and footman speak to one another and say : ` Why should we drive this stranger back to the palace ?
Let u kill him , and then we can say to the king that we slew the dragon and save the princess , and one of u shall marry her . '
So they kill the prince , and leave him dead on the roadside .
And the faithful beast come round the dead body and wept , and wonder what they should do .
Then suddenly the wolf have an idea , and he start off into the wood , where he find an ox , which he straightway kill .
Then he call the fox , and tell him to mount guard over the dead ox , and if a bird come past and try to peck at the flesh he be to catch it and bring it to the lion .
Soon after a crow fly past , and begin to peck at the dead ox .
In a moment the fox have catch it and bring it to the lion .
Then the lion say to the crow : ` We will not kill you if you will promise to fly to the town where there be three well of heal and to bring back water from them in your beak to make this dead man alive . '
So the crow fly away , and she fill her beak at the well of healing , the well of strength , and the well of swiftness , and she fly back to the dead prince and drop the water from her beak upon his lip , and he be heal , and could sit up and walk .
Then he set out for the town , accompany by his faithful beast .
And when they reach the king 's palace they find that preparation for a great feast be be make , for the princess be to marry the coachman .
So the prince walk into the palace , and go straight up to the coachman and say : ` What token have you get that you kill the dragon and win the hand of the princess ?
I have her token here -- this ring and half her handkerchief . '
And when the king saw these token he know that the prince be speak the truth .
So the coachman be bind in chain and throw into prison , and the prince be marry to the princess and reward with half the kingdom .
One day , soon after his marriage , the prince be walk through the wood in the evening , follow by his faithful beast .
Darkness come on , and he lose his way , and wander about among the tree look for the path that would lead him back to the palace .
As he walk he saw the light of a fire , and make his way to it he find an old woman rake stick and dry leaf together , and burn them in a glade of the wood .
As he be very tired , and the night be very dark , the prince determine not to wander far .
So he ask the old woman if he might spend the night beside her fire .
` Of course you may , ' she answer .
` But I be afraid of your beast .
Let me hit them with my rod , and then I shall not be afraid of them . '
` Very well , ' say the prince , ' I do n't mind ' ; and she stretch out her rod and hit the beast , and in one moment they be turn into stone , and so be the prince .
Now soon after this the prince 's young brother come to the cross-roads with the three birch , where the brother have part from each other when they set out on their wandering .
Remembering what they have agree to do , he walk round the two tree , and when he saw that blood ooze from the cut in the eldest prince 's tree he know that his brother must be dead .
So he set out , follow by his beast , and come to the town over which his brother have rule , and where the princess he have marry live .
And when he come into the town all the people be in great sorrow because their prince have disappear .
But when they saw his young brother , and the beast follow him , they think it be their own prince , and they rejoice greatly , and tell him how they have seek him everywhere .
Then they lead him to the king , and he too think that it be his son-in-law .
But the princess know that he be not her husband , and she beg him to go out into the wood with his beast , and to look for his brother till he find him .
So the young prince set out to look for his brother , and he too lose his way in the wood and night overtook him .
Then he come to the clearing among the tree , where the fire be burn and where the old woman be rake stick and leave into the flame .
And he ask her if he might spend the night beside her fire , a it be too late and too dark to go back to the town .
And she answer : ` Certainly you may .
But I be afraid of your beast .
May I give them a stroke with my rod , then I shall not be afraid of them . '
And he say she might , for he do not know that she be a witch .
So she stretch out her rod , and in a moment the beast and their master be turn into stone .
It happen soon after that the second brother return from his wandering and come to the cross-roads where the three birch grow .
As he go round the tree he saw that blood pour from the cut in the bark of two of the tree .
Then he weep and say : ` Alas !
both my brother be dead . '
And he too set out towards the town in which his brother have rule , and his faithful beast follow him .
When he enter the town , all the people think it be their own prince come back to them , and they gather round him , a they have gather round his young brother , and ask him where he have be and why he have not return .
And they lead him to the king 's palace , but the princess know that he be not her husband .
So when they be alone together she beseech him to go and seek for his brother and bring him home .
Calling his beast round him , he set out and wander through the wood .
And he put his ear down to the earth , to listen if he could hear the sound of his brother 's beast .
And it seem to him a if he hear a faint sound far off , but he do not know from what direction it come .
So he blow on his hunt horn and listen again .
And again he hear the sound , and this time it seem to come from the direction of a fire burning in the wood .
So he go towards the fire , and there the old woman be rake stick and leave into the ember .
And he ask her if he might spend the night beside her fire .
But she tell him she be afraid of his beast , and he must first allow her to give each of them a stroke with her rod .
But he answer her : ` Certainly not .
I be their master , and no one shall strike them but I myself .
Give me the rod ' ; and he touch the fox with it , and in a moment it be turn into stone .
Then he know that the old woman be a witch , and he turn to her and say : ` Unless you restore my brother and their beast back to life at once , my lion will tear you in piece . '
Then the witch be terrify , and take a young oak tree she burn it into white ash , and sprinkle the ash on the stone that stand around .
And in a moment the two prince stand before their brother , and their beast stand round them .
Then the three prince set off together to the town .
And the king do not know which be his son-in-law , but the princess know which be her husband , and there be great rejoicing throughout the land .
THE GOAT 'S EARS OF THE EMPEROR TROJAN Once upon a time there live an emperor whose name be Trojan , and he have ear like a goat .
Every morning , when he be shave , he ask if the man saw anything odd about him , and a each fresh barber always reply that the emperor have goat 's ear , he be at once order to be put to death .
Now after this state of thing have last a good while , there be hardly a barber leave in the town that could shave the emperor , and it come to be the turn of the Master of the Company of Barbers to go up to the palace .
But , unluckily , at the very moment that he should have set out , the master fell suddenly ill , and tell one of his apprentice that he must go in his stead .
When the youth be take to the emperor 's bedroom , he be ask why he have come and not his master .
The young man reply that the master be ill , and there be no one but himself who could be trust with the honour .
The emperor be satisfy with the answer , and sit down , and let a sheet of fine linen be put round him .
Directly the young barber begin his work , he , like the rest , remark the goat 's ear of the emperor , but when he have finish and the emperor ask his usual question a to whether the youth have notice anything odd about him , the young man reply calmly , ` No , nothing at all . '
This please the emperor so much that he give him twelve ducat , and say , ` Henceforth you shall come every day to shave me . '
So when the apprentice return home , and the master inquire how he have get on with the emperor , the young man answer , ` Oh , very well , and he say I be to shave him every day , and he have give me these twelve ducat ' ; but he say nothing about the goat 's ear of the emperor .
From this time the apprentice go regularly up to the palace , receive each morning twelve ducat in payment .
But after a while , his secret , which he have carefully keep , burn within him , and he long to tell it to somebody .
His master saw there be something on his mind , and ask what it be .
The youth reply that he have be torment himself for some month , and should never feel easy until some one share his secret .
` Well , trust me , ' say the master , ' I will keep it to myself ; or , if you do not like to do that , confess it to your pastor , or go into some field outside the town and dig a hole , and , after you have dig it , kneel down and whisper your secret three time into the hole .
Then put back the earth and come away . '
The apprentice think that this seem the best plan , and that very afternoon go to a meadow outside the town , dig a deep hole , then kneel and whisper to it three time over , ` The Emperor Trojan have goat 's ear . '
And a he say so a great burden seem to roll off him , and he shovel the earth carefully back and run lightly home .
Weeks pass away , and there spring up in the hole an elder tree which have three stem , all as straight a poplar .
Some shepherd , tend their flock near by , notice the tree grow there , and one of them cut down a stem to make flute of ; but , directly he begin to play , the flute would do nothing but sing : ` The Emperor Trojan have goat 's ear . '
Of course , it be not long before the whole town knew of this wonderful flute and what it say ; and , at last , the news reach the emperor in his palace .
He instantly send for the apprentice and say to him : ` What have you be say about me to all my people ? '
The culprit try to defend himself by say that he have never tell anyone what he have notice ; but the emperor , instead of listen , only draw his sword from it sheath , which so frighten the poor fellow that he confess exactly what he have do , and how he have whisper the truth three time to the earth , and how in that very place an elder tree have spring up , and flute have be cut from it , which would only repeat the word he have say .
Then the emperor command his coach to be make ready , and he take the youth with him , and they drive to the spot , for he wish to see for himself whether the young man 's confession be true ; but when they reach the place only one stem be leave .
So the emperor desire his attendant to cut him a flute from the remain stem , and , when it be ready , he order his chamberlain to play on it .
But no tune could the chamberlain play , though he be the best flute player about the court -- nothing come but the word , ` The Emperor Trojan have goat 's ear . '
Then the emperor know that even the earth give up it secret , and he grant the young man his life , but he never allow him to be his barber any more .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE NINE PEA-HENS AND THE GOLDEN APPLES Once upon a time there stand before the palace of an emperor a golden apple tree , which blossom and bore fruit each night .
But every morning the fruit be go , and the bough be bare of blossom , without anyone be able to discover who be the thief .
At last the emperor say to his eldest son , ` If only I could prevent those robber from steal my fruit , how happy I should be ! '
And his son reply , ' I will sit up to-night and watch the tree , and I shall soon see who it be ! '
So directly it grow dark the young man go and hide himself near the apple tree to begin his watch , but the apple have scarcely begin to ripen before he fell asleep , and when he awake at sunrise the apple be go .
He felt very much ashamed of himself , and go with lag foot to tell his father !
Of course , though the eldest son have fail , the second make sure that he would do good , and set out gaily at nightfall to watch the apple tree .
But no sooner have he lie himself down than his eye grow heavy , and when the sunbeam rouse him from his slumber there be not an apple leave on the tree .
Next come the turn of the young son , who make himself a comfortable bed under the apple tree , and prepare himself to sleep .
Towards midnight he awake , and sit up to look at the tree .
And behold !
the apple be begin to ripen , and light up the whole palace with their brightness .
At the same moment nine golden pea-hens fly swiftly through the air , and while eight alight upon the bough lade with fruit , the ninth flutter to the ground where the prince lay , and instantly be change into a beautiful maiden , more beautiful far than any lady in the emperor 's court .
The prince at once fell in love with her , and they talk together for some time , till the maiden say her sister have finish pluck the apple , and now they must all go home again .
The prince , however , beg her so hard to leave him a little of the fruit that the maiden give him two apple , one for himself and one for his father .
Then she change herself back into a pea-hen , and the whole nine fly away .
As soon a the sun rise the prince enter the palace , and hold out the apple to his father , who be rejoice to see it , and praise his young son heartily for his cleverness .
That even the prince return to the apple tree , and everything pass a before , and so it happen for several night .
At length the other brother grow angry at see that he never come back without bring two golden apple with him , and they go to consult an old witch , who promise to spy after him , and discover how he manage to get the apple .
So , when the evening come , the old woman hide herself under the tree and wait for the prince .
Before long he arrive and lay down on his bed , and be soon fast asleep .
Towards midnight there be a rush of wing , and the eight pea-hens settle on the tree , while the ninth become a maiden , and run to greet the prince .
Then the witch stretch out her hand , and cut off a lock of the maiden 's hair , and in an instant the girl spring up , a pea-hen once more , spread her wing and fly away , while her sister , who be busily strip the bough , flew after her .
When he have recover from his surprise at the unexpected disappearance of the maiden , the prince exclaim , ` What can be the matter ? '
and , look about him , discover the old witch hidden under the bed .
He drag her out , and in his fury call his guard , and order them to put her to death as fast a possible .
But that do no good as far a the pea-hens go .
They never come back any more , though the prince return to the tree every night , and weep his heart out for his lose love .
This go on for some time , till the prince could bear it no longer , and make up his mind he would search the world through for her .
In vain his father try to persuade him that his task be hopeless , and that other girl be to be find as beautiful a this one .
The prince would listen to nothing , and , accompany by only one servant , set out on his quest .
After travel for many day , he arrive at length before a large gate , and through the bar he could see the street of a town , and even the palace .
The prince try to pass in , but the way be bar by the keeper of the gate , who want to know who he be , why he be there , and how he have learn the way , and he be not allow to enter unless the empress herself come and give him leave .
A message be send to her , and when she stand at the gate the prince think he have lose his wit , for there be the maiden he have leave his home to seek .
And she hasten to him , and take his hand , and draw him into the palace .
In a few day they be marry , and the prince forget his father and his brother , and make up his mind that he would live and die in the castle .
One morning the empress tell him that she be go to take a walk by herself , and that she would leave the key of twelve cellar to his care .
` If you wish to enter the first eleven cellar , ' say she , ` you can ; but beware of even unlock the door of the twelfth , or it will be the bad for you . '
The prince , who be leave alone in the castle , soon get tire of be by himself , and begin to look about for something to amuse him .
` What CAN there be in that twelfth cellar , ' he think to himself , ` which I must not see ? '
And he go downstairs and unlock the door , one after the other .
When he get to the twelfth he pause , but his curiosity be too much for him , and in another instant the key be turn and the cellar lay open before him .
It be empty , save for a large cask , bound with iron hoop , and out of the cask a voice be say entreatingly , ` For goodness ' sake , brother , fetch me some water ; I be die of thirst ! '
The prince , who be very tender-hearted , bring some water at once , and push it through a hole in the barrel ; and a he do so one of the iron hoop burst .
He be turn away , when a voice cry the second time , ` Brother , for pity 's sake fetch me some water ; I 'm die of thirst ! '
So the prince go back , and bring some more water , and again a hoop sprang .
And for the third time the voice still call for water ; and when water be give it the last hoop be rent , the cask fell in piece , and out fly a dragon , who snatch up the empress just a she be return from her walk , and carry her off .
Some servant who saw what have happen come rush to the prince , and the poor young man go nearly mad when he hear the result of his own folly , and could only cry out that he would follow the dragon to the end of the earth , until he get his wife again .
For month and month he wander about , first in this direction and then in that , without find any trace of the dragon or his captive .
At last he come to a stream , and a he stop for a moment to look at it he notice a little fish lie on the bank , beat it tail convulsively , in a vain effort to get back into the water .
` Oh , for pity 's sake , my brother , ' shriek the little creature , ` help me , and put me back into the river , and I will repay you some day .
Take one of my scale , and when you be in danger twist it in your finger , and I will come ! '
The prince pick up the fish and throw it into the water ; then he take off one of it scale , a he have be tell , and put it in his pocket , carefully wrap in a cloth .
Then he go on his way till , some mile far down the road , he find a fox caught in a trap .
` Oh !
be a brother to me ! '
call the fox , ` and free me from this trap , and I will help you when you be in need .
Pull out one of my hair , and when you be in danger twist it in your finger , and I will come . '
So the prince unfasten the trap , pull out one of the fox 's hair , and continue his journey .
And a he be go over the mountain he pass a wolf entangle in a snare , who beg to be set at liberty .
` Only deliver me from death , ' he say , ` and you will never be sorry for it .
Take a lock of my fur , and when you need me twist it in your finger . '
And the prince undo the snare and let the wolf go .
For a long time he walk on , without have any more adventure , till at length he meet a man travel on the same road .
` Oh , brother ! '
ask the prince , ` tell me , if you can , where the dragon-emperor life ? '
The man tell him where he would find the palace , and how long it would take him to get there , and the prince thank him , and follow his direction , till that same evening he reach the town where the dragon-emperor live .
When he enter the palace , to his great joy he find his wife sit alone in a vast hall , and they begin hastily to invent plan for her escape .
There be no time to waste , a the dragon might return directly , so they take two horse out of the stable , and ride away at lightning speed .
Hardly be they out of sight of the palace than the dragon come home and find that his prisoner have fly .
He send at once for his talk horse , and say to him : ` Give me your advice ; what shall I do -- have my supper a usual , or set out in pursuit of them ? '
` Eat your supper with a free mind first , ' answer the horse , ` and follow them afterwards . '
So the dragon ate till it be past mid-day , and when he could eat no more he mount his horse and set out after the fugitive .
In a short time he have come up with them , and a he snatch the empress out of her saddle he say to the prince : ` This time I will forgive you , because you bring me the water when I be in the cask ; but beware how you return here , or you will pay for it with your life . '
Half mad with grief , the prince rode sadly on a little further , hardly know what he be do .
Then he could bear it no longer and turn back to the palace , in spite of the dragon 's threat .
Again the empress be sit alone , and once more they begin to think of a scheme by which they could escape the dragon 's power .
` Ask the dragon when he come home , ' say the prince , ` where he get that wonderful horse from , and then you can tell me , and I will try to find another like it . '
Then , fear to meet his enemy , he steal out of the castle .
Soon after the dragon come home , and the empress sit down near him , and begin to coax and flatter him into a good humour , and at last she say : ` But tell me about that wonderful horse you be rid yesterday .
There can not be another like it in the whole world .
Where do you get it from ? '
And he answer : ` The way I get it be a way which no one else can take .
On the top of a high mountain dwells an old woman , who have in her stable twelve horse , each one more beautiful than the other .
And in one corner be a thin , wretched-looking animal whom no one would glance at a second time , but he be in reality the best of the lot .
He be twin brother to my own horse , and can fly as high a the cloud themselves .
But no one can ever get this horse without first serve the old woman for three whole day .
And besides the horse she have a foal and it mother , and the man who serve her must look after them for three whole day , and if he do not let them run away he will in the end get the choice of any horse a a present from the old woman .
But if he fail to keep the foal and it mother safe on any one of the three night his head will pay . '
The next day the prince watch till the dragon leave the house , and then he creep in to the empress , who tell him all she have learnt from her gaoler .
The prince at once determine to seek the old woman on the top of the mountain , and lose no time in set out .
It be a long and steep climb , but at last he find her , and with a low bow he begin : ` Good greeting to you , little mother ! '
` Good greeting to you , my son !
What be you do here ? ' '
I wish to become your servant , ' answer he .
` So you shall , ' say the old woman .
` If you can take care of my mare for three day I will give you a horse for wage , but if you let her stray you will lose your head ' ; and a she speak she lead him into a courtyard surround with paling , and on every post a man 's head be stick .
One post only be empty , and a they pass it cry out : ` Woman , give me the head I be wait for ! '
The old woman make no answer , but turn to the prince and say : ` Look !
all those men take service with me , on the same condition a you , but not one be able to guard the mare ! '
But the prince do not waver , and declare he would abide by his word .
When even come he lead the mare out of the stable and mount her , and the colt run behind .
He manage to keep his seat for a long time , in spite of all her effort to throw him , but at length he grow so weary that he fell fast asleep , and when he wake he find himself sit on a log , with the halter in his hand .
He jump up in terror , but the mare be nowhere to be see , and he start with a beat heart in search of her .
He have go some way without a single trace to guide him , when he come to a little river .
The sight of the water bring back to his mind the fish whom he have save from death , and he hastily draw the scale from his pocket .
It have hardly touch his finger when the fish appear in the stream beside him .
` What be it , my brother ? '
ask the fish anxiously .
` The old woman 's mare stray last night , and I do n't know where to look for her . '
` Oh , I can tell you that : she have change herself into a big fish , and her foal into a little one .
But strike the water with the halter and say , `` Come here , O mare of the mountain witch ! ''
and she will come . '
The prince do a he be bid , and the mare and her foal stand before him .
Then he put the halter round her neck , and ride her home , the foal always trot behind them .
The old woman be at the door to receive them , and give the prince some food while she lead the mare back to the stable .
` You should have go among the fish , ' cry the old woman , strike the animal with a stick . '
I do go among the fish , ' reply the mare ; ` but they be no friend of mine , for they betray me at once . '
` Well , go among the fox this time , ' say she , and return to the house , not know that the prince have overheard her .
So when it begin to grow dark the prince mount the mare for the second time and rode into the meadow , and the foal trot behind it mother .
Again he manage to stick on till midnight : then a sleep overtook him that he could not battle against , and when he wake up he find himself , a before , sit on the log , with the halter in his hand .
He give a shriek of dismay , and spring up in search of the wanderer .
As he go he suddenly remember the word that the old woman have say to the mare , and he draw out the fox hair and twist it in his finger .
` What be it , my brother ? '
ask the fox , who instantly appear before him .
` The old witch 's mare have run away from me , and I do not know where to look for her . '
` She be with u , ' reply the fox , ` and have change herself into a big fox , and her foal into a little one , but strike the ground with a halter and say , `` Come here , O mare of the mountain witch ! '' '
The prince do so , and in a moment the fox become a mare and stand before him , with the little foal at her heel .
He mount and ride back , and the old woman place food on the table , and lead the mare back to the stable .
` You should have go to the fox , a I tell you , ' say she , strike the mare with a stick . '
I do go to the fox , ' reply the mare , ` but they be no friend of mine and betray me . '
` Well , this time you have good go to the wolf , ' say she , not know that the prince have hear all she have be say .
The third night the prince mount the mare and ride her out to the meadow , with the foal trotting after .
He try hard to keep awake , but it be of no use , and in the morning there he be again on the log , grasp the halter .
He start to his foot , and then stop , for he remember what the old woman have say , and pull out the wolf 's grey lock .
` What be it , my brother ? '
ask the wolf a it stand before him .
` The old witch 's mare have run away from me , ' reply the prince , ` and I do n't know where to find her . '
` Oh , she be with u , ' answer the wolf , ` and she have change herself into a she-wolf , and the foal into a cub ; but strike the earth here with the halter , and cry , `` Come to me , O mare of the mountain witch . '' '
The prince do a he be bid , and a the hair touch his finger the wolf change back into a mare , with the foal beside her .
And when he have mount and ride her home the old woman be on the step to receive them , and she set some food before the prince , but lead the mare back to her stable .
` You should have go among the wolf , ' say she , strike her with a stick .
` So I do , ' reply the mare , ` but they be no friend of mine and betray me . '
The old woman make no answer , and leave the stable , but the prince be at the door wait for her . '
I have serve you well , ' say he , ` and now for my reward . '
` What I promise that will I perform , ' answer she .
` Choose one of these twelve horse ; you can have which you like . '
` Give me , instead , that half-starved creature in the corner , ' ask the prince . '
I prefer him to all those beautiful animal . '
` You ca n't really mean what you say ? '
reply the woman .
` Yes , I do , ' say the prince , and the old woman be force to let him have his way .
So he take leave of her , and put the halter round his horse 's neck and lead him into the forest , where he rub him down till his skin be shin like gold .
Then he mount , and they fly straight through the air to the dragon 's palace .
The empress have be look for him night and day , and steal out to meet him , and he swing her on to his saddle , and the horse fly off again .
Not long after the dragon come home , and when he find the empress be miss he say to his horse , ` What shall we do ?
Shall we eat and drink , or shall we follow the runaway ? '
and the horse reply , ` Whether you eat or do n't eat , drink or do n't drink , follow them or stay at home , matter nothing now , for you can never , never catch them . '
But the dragon make no reply to the horse 's word , but sprang on his back and set off in chase of the fugitive .
And when they saw him come they be frighten , and urge the prince 's horse faster and faster , till he say , ` Fear nothing ; no harm can happen to u , ' and their heart grow calm , for they trust his wisdom .
Soon the dragon 's horse be hear pant behind , and he cry out , ` Oh , my brother , do not go so fast !
I shall sink to the earth if I try to keep up with you . '
And the prince 's horse answer , ` Why do you serve a monster like that ?
Kick him off , and let him break in piece on the ground , and come and join u . '
And the dragon 's horse plunge and rear , and the dragon fell on a rock , which break him in piece .
Then the empress mount his horse , and ride back with her husband to her kingdom , over which they rule for many year .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE LUTE PLAYER Once upon a time there be a king and queen who live happily and comfortably together .
They be very fond of each other and have nothing to worry them , but at last the king grow restless .
He long to go out into the world , to try his strength in battle against some enemy and to win all kind of honour and glory .
So he call his army together and give order to start for a distant country where a heathen king rule who ill-treated or torment everyone he could lay his hand on .
The king then give his parting order and wise advice to his minister , take a tender leave of his wife , and set off with his army across the sea .
I can not say whether the voyage be short or long ; but at last he reach the country of the heathen king and march on , defeat all who come in his way .
But this do not last long , for in time he come to a mountain pas , where a large army be wait for him , who put his soldier to flight , and take the king himself prisoner .
He be carry off to the prison where the heathen king keep his captive , and now our poor friend have a very bad time indeed .
All night long the prisoner be chain up , and in the morning they be yoke together like ox and have to plough the land till it grow dark .
This state of thing go on for three year before the king find any mean of send news of himself to his dear queen , but at last he contrive to send this letter : ` Sell all our castle and palace , and put all our treasure in pawn and come and deliver me out of this horrible prison . '
The queen receive the letter , read it , and weep bitterly a she say to herself , ` How can I deliver my dear husband ?
If I go myself and the heathen king see me he will just take me to be one of his wife .
If I be to send one of the minister !
-- but I hardly know if I can depend on them . '
She think , and think , and at last an idea come into her head .
She cut off all her beautiful long brown hair and dress herself in boy 's clothes .
Then she take her lute and , without say anything to anyone , she go forth into the wide world .
She travel through many land and saw many city , and go through many hardship before she get to the town where the heathen king live .
When she get there she walk all round the palace and at the back she saw the prison .
Then she go into the great court in front of the palace , and take her lute in her hand , she begin to play so beautifully that one felt a though one could never hear enough .
After she have play for some time she begin to sing , and her voice be sweet than the lark 's : ' I come from my own country far Into this foreign land , Of all I own I take alone My sweet lute in my hand .
` Oh !
who will thank me for my song , Reward my simple lay ?
Like lover 's sigh it still shall rise To greet thee day by day . '
I sing of bloom flower Made sweet by sun and rain ; Of all the bliss of love 's first kiss , And part 's cruel pain .
` Of the sad captive 's longing Within his prison wall , Of heart that sigh when none be nigh To answer to their call .
` My song begs for your pity , And gift from out your store , And a I play my gentle lay I linger near your door .
` And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh !
give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart 's desire . '
No sooner have the heathen king heard this touching song sung by such a lovely voice , than he have the singer bring before him .
` Welcome , O lute player , ' say he .
` Where do you come from ? '
` My country , sire , be far away across many sea .
For year I have be wander about the world and gain my living by my music . '
` Stay here then a few day , and when you wish to leave I will give you what you ask for in your song -- your heart 's desire . '
So the lute player stay on in the palace and sang and play almost all day long to the king , who could never tire of listening and almost forget to eat or drink or to torment people .
He care for nothing but the music , and nod his head a he declare , ` That 's something like play and singing .
It make me feel a if some gentle hand have lift every care and sorrow from me . '
After three day the lute player come to take leave of the king .
` Well , ' say the king , ` what do you desire a your reward ? '
` Sire , give me one of your prisoner .
You have so many in your prison , and I should be glad of a companion on my journey .
When I hear his happy voice a I travel along I shall think of you and thank you . '
` Come along then , ' say the king , ` choose whom you will . '
And he take the lute player through the prison himself .
The queen walk about amongst the prisoner , and at length she pick out her husband and take him with her on her journey .
They be long on their way , but he never find out who she be , and she lead him nearer and nearer to his own country .
When they reach the frontier the prisoner say : ` Let me go now , kind lad ; I be no common prisoner , but the king of this country .
Let me go free and ask what you will a your reward . '
` Do not speak of reward , ' answer the lute player .
` Go in peace . '
` Then come with me , dear boy , and be my guest . '
` When the proper time come I shall be at your palace , ' be the reply , and so they part .
The queen take a short way home , get there before the king and change her dress .
An hour later all the people in the palace be run to and fro and cry out : ` Our king have come back !
Our king have return to u . '
The king greet every one very kindly , but he would not so much a look at the queen .
Then he call all his council and minister together and say to them : ` See what sort of a wife I have .
Here she be fall on my neck , but when I be pin in prison and send her word of it she do nothing to help me . '
And his council answer with one voice , ` Sire , when news be bring from you the queen disappear and no one knew where she go .
She only return to-day . '
Then the king be very angry and cried , ` Judge my faithless wife !
Never would you have see your king again , if a young lute player have not deliver him .
I shall remember him with love and gratitude as long a I live . '
Whilst the king be sit with his council , the queen find time to disguise herself .
She take her lute , and slip into the court in front of the palace she sing , clear and sweet : ' I sing the captive 's longing Within his prison wall , Of heart that sigh when none be nigh To answer to their call .
` My song begs for your pity , And gift from out your store , And a I play my gentle lay I linger near your door .
` And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh !
give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart 's desire . '
As soon a the king heard this song he run out to meet the lute player , take him by the hand and lead him into the palace .
` Here , ' he cry , ` be the boy who release me from my prison .
And now , my true friend , I will indeed give you your heart 's desire . ' '
I be sure you will not be less generous than the heathen king be , sire .
I ask of you what I ask and obtain from him .
But this time I do n't mean to give up what I get .
I want YOU -- yourself ! '
And a she speak she throw off her long cloak and everyone saw it be the queen .
Who can tell how happy the king be ?
In the joy of his heart he give a great feast to the whole world , and the whole world come and rejoice with him for a whole week .
I be there too , and ate and drink many good thing .
I sha 'n ' t forget that feast as long a I live .
-LRB- From the Russian . -RRB-
THE GRATEFUL PRINCE Once upon a time the king of the Goldland lose himself in a forest , and try a he would he could not find the way out .
As he be wander down one path which have look at first more hopeful than the rest he saw a man come towards him .
` What be you do here , friend ? '
ask the stranger ; ` darkness be fall fast , and soon the wild beast will come from their lair to seek for food . ' '
I have lose myself , ' answer the king , ` and be try to get home . '
` Then promise me that you will give me the first thing that come out of your house , and I will show you the way , ' say the stranger .
The king do not answer directly , but after awhile he speak : ` Why should I give away my BEST sporting dog .
I can surely find my way out of the forest as well a this man . '
So the stranger leave him , but the king follow path after path for three whole day , with no good success than before .
He be almost in despair , when the stranger suddenly appear , block up his way .
` Promise you will give me the first thing that come out of your house to meet you ? '
But still the king be stiff-necked and would promise nothing .
For some day longer he wander up and down the forest , try first one path , then another , but his courage at last give way , and he sink wearily on the ground under a tree , feel sure his last hour have come .
Then for the third time the stranger stand before the king , and say : ` Why be you such a fool ?
What can a dog be to you , that you should give your life for him like this ?
Just promise me the reward I want , and I will guide you out of the forest . '
` Well , my life be worth more than a thousand dog , ' answer the king , ` the welfare of my kingdom depend on me .
I accept your term , so take me to my palace . '
Scarcely have he utter the word than he find himself at the edge of the wood , with the palace in the dim distance .
He make all the haste he could , and just a he reach the great gate out come the nurse with the royal baby , who stretch out his arm to his father .
The king shrank back , and order the nurse to take the baby away at once .
Then his great boarhound bound up to him , but his caress be only answer by a violent push .
When the king 's anger be spend , and he be able to think what be best to be do , he exchange his baby , a beautiful boy , for the daughter of a peasant , and the prince live roughly a the son of poor people , while the little girl slept in a golden cradle , under silken sheet .
At the end of a year , the stranger arrive to claim his property , and take away the little girl , believe her to be the true child of the king .
The king be so delighted with the success of his plan that he order a great feast to be get ready , and give splendid present to the foster parent of his son , so that he might lack nothing .
But he do not dare to bring back the baby , lest the trick should be find out .
The peasant be quite content with this arrangement , which give them food and money in abundance .
By-and-by the boy grow big and tall , and seem to lead a happy life in the house of his foster parent .
But a shadow hung over him which really poison most of his pleasure , and that be the thought of the poor innocent girl who have suffer in his stead , for his foster father have tell him in secret , that he be the king 's son .
And the prince determine that when he grow old enough he would travel all over the world , and never rest till he have set her free .
To become king at the cost of a maiden 's life be too heavy a price to pay .
So one day he put on the dress of a farm servant , throw a sack of pea on his back , and march straight into the forest where eighteen year before his father have lose himself .
After he have walk some way he begin to cry loudly : ` Oh , how unlucky I be !
Where can I be ?
Is there no one to show me the way out of the wood ? '
Then appear a strange man with a long grey beard , with a leather bag hang from his girdle .
He nod cheerfully to the prince , and say : ' I know this place well , and can lead you out of it , if you will promise me a good reward . '
` What can a beggar such a I promise you ? '
answer the prince . '
I have nothing to give you save my life ; even the coat on my back belongs to my master , whom I serve for my keep and my clothes . '
The stranger look at the sack of pea , and say , ` But you must possess something ; you be carry this sack , which seem to be very heavy . '
` It be full of pea , ' be the reply .
` My old aunt die last night , without leave money enough to buy pea to give the watcher , a be the custom throughout the country .
I have borrow these pea from my master , and think to take a short cut across the forest ; but I have lose myself , a you see . '
` Then you be an orphan ? '
ask the stranger .
` Why should you not enter my service ?
I want a sharp fellow in the house , and you please me . '
` Why not , indeed , if we can strike a bargain ? '
say the other . '
I be bear a peasant , and strange bread be always bitter , so it be the same to me whom I serve !
What wag will you give me ? '
` Every day fresh food , meat twice a week , butter and vegetable , your summer and winter clothes , and a portion of land for your own use . ' '
I shall be satisfy with that , ' say the youth .
` Somebody else will have to bury my aunt .
I will go with you ! '
Now this bargain seem to please the old fellow so much that he spin round like a top , and sing so loud that the whole wood rang with his voice .
Then he set out with his companion , and chatter so fast that he never notice that his new servant keep drop pea out of the sack .
At night they sleep under a fig tree , and when the sun rise start on their way .
About noon they come to a large stone , and here the old fellow stop , look carefully round , give a sharp whistle , and stamp three time on the ground with his left foot .
Suddenly there appear under the stone a secret door , which lead to what look like the mouth of a cave .
The old fellow seize the youth by the arm , and say roughly , ` Follow me ! '
Thick darkness surround them , yet it seem to the prince a if their path lead into still deep depth .
After a long while he think he saw a glimmer of light , but the light be neither that of the sun nor of the moon .
He look eagerly at it , but find it be only a kind of pale cloud , which be all the light this strange underworld could boast .
Earth and water , tree and plant , bird and beast , each be different from those he have see before ; but what most struck terror into his heart be the absolute stillness that reign everywhere .
Not a rustle or a sound could be hear .
Here and there he notice a bird sit on a branch , with head erect and swell throat , but his ear caught nothing .
The dog open their mouth a if to bark , the toil ox seem about to bellow , but neither bark nor bellow reach the prince .
The water flow noiselessly over the pebble , the wind bow the top of the tree , fly and chafers dart about , without break the silence .
The old greybeard utter no word , and when his companion try to ask him the meaning of it all he felt that his voice die in his throat .
How long this fearful stillness last I do not know , but the prince gradually felt his heart turn to ice , his hair stand up like bristle , and a cold chill be creep down his spine , when at last -- oh , ecstasy !
-- a faint noise break on his straining ear , and this life of shadow suddenly become real .
It sound a if a troop of horse be plough their way over a moor .
Then the greybeard open his mouth , and say : ` The kettle be boil ; we be expect at home . '
They walk on a little further , till the prince think he hear the grinding of a saw-mill , a if dozen of saw be work together , but his guide observe , ` The grandmother be sleep soundly ; listen how she snore . '
When they have climb a hill which lay before them the prince saw in the distance the house of his master , but it be so surrounded with building of all kind that the place look more like a village or even a small town .
They reach it at last , and find an empty kennel standing in front of the gate .
` Creep inside this , ' say the master , ` and wait while I go in and see my grandmother .
Like all very old people , she be very obstinate , and can not bear fresh face about her . '
The prince crept tremblingly into the kennel , and begin to regret the daring which have bring him into this scrape .
By-and-by the master come back , and call him from his hiding-place .
Something have put out his temper , for with a frown he say , ` Watch carefully our way in the house , and beware of make any mistake , or it will go ill with you .
Keep your eye and ear open , and your mouth shut , obey without question .
Be grateful if you will , but never speak unless you be speak to . '
When the prince step over the threshold he catch sight of a maiden of wonderful beauty , with brown eye and fair curly hair .
` Well ! '
the young man say to himself , ` if the old fellow have many daughter like that I should not mind be his son-in-law .
This one be just what I admire ' ; and he watch her lay the table , bring in the food , and take her seat by the fire a if she have never notice that a strange man be present .
Then she take out a needle and thread , and begin to darn her stocking .
The master sit at table alone , and invite neither his new servant nor the maid to eat with him .
Neither be the old grandmother anywhere to be see .
His appetite be tremendous : he soon clear all the dish , and ate enough to satisfy a dozen men .
When at last he could eat no more he say to the girl , ` Now you can pick up the piece , and take what be leave in the iron pot for your own dinner , but give the bone to the dog . '
The prince do not at all like the idea of din off scrap , which he help the girl to pick up , but , after all , he find that there be plenty to eat , and that the food be very good .
During the meal he steal many glance at the maiden , and would even have speak to her , but she give him no encouragement .
Every time he open his mouth for the purpose she look at him sternly , a if to say , ` Silence , ' so he could only let his eye speak for him .
Besides , the master be stretch on a bench by the oven after his huge meal , and would have hear everything .
After supper that night , the old man say to the prince , ` For two day you may rest from the fatigue of the journey , and look about the house .
But the day after to-morrow you must come with me , and I will point out the work you have to do .
The maid will show you where you be to sleep . '
The prince think , from this , he have leave to speak , but his master turn on him with a face of thunder and exclaim : ` You dog of a servant !
If you disobey the law of the house you will soon find yourself a head shorter !
Hold your tongue , and leave me in peace . '
The girl make a sign to him to follow her , and , throw open a door , nod to him to go in .
He would have linger a moment , for he think she look sad , but dare not do so , for fear of the old man 's anger .
` It be impossible that she can be his daughter ! '
he say to himself , ` for she have a kind heart .
I be quite sure she must be the same girl who be bring here instead of me , so I be bound to risk my head in this mad adventure . '
He get into bed , but it be long before he fell asleep , and even then his dream give him no rest .
He seem to be surround by danger , and it be only the power of the maiden who help him through it all .
When he wake his first thought be for the girl , whom he find hard at work .
He draw water from the well and carry it to the house for her , kindle the fire under the iron pot , and , in fact , do everything that come into his head that could be of any use to her .
In the afternoon he go out , in order to learn something of his new home , and wonder greatly not to come across the old grandmother .
In his ramble he come to the farmyard , where a beautiful white horse have a stall to itself ; in another be a black cow with two white-faced calf , while the clucking of geese , duck , and hen reach him from a distance .
Breakfast , dinner , and supper be as savoury a before , and the prince would have be quite content with his quarter have it not be for the difficulty of keep silence in the presence of the maiden .
On the evening of the second day he go , a he have be tell , to receive his order for the following morning . '
I be go to set you something very easy to do to-morrow , ' say the old man when his servant enter .
` Take this scythe and cut as much grass a the white horse will want for it day 's feed , and clean out it stall .
If I come back and find the manger empty it will go ill with you .
So beware ! '
The prince leave the room , rejoice in his heart , and say to himself , ` Well , I shall soon get through that !
If I have never yet handle either the plough or the scythe , at least I have often watch the country people work them , and know how easy it be . '
He be just go to open his door , when the maiden glide softly past and whisper in his ear : ` What task have he set you ? '
` For to-morrow , ' answer the prince , ` it be really nothing at all !
Just to cut hay for the horse , and to clean out his stall ! '
` Oh , luckless be ! '
sigh the girl ; ` how will you ever get through with it .
The white horse , who be our master 's grandmother , be always hungry : it take twenty men always mow to keep it in food for one day , and another twenty to clean out it stall .
How , then , do you expect to do it all by yourself ?
But listen to me , and do what I tell you .
It be your only chance .
When you have fill the manger as full a it will hold you must weave a strong plait of the rush which grow among the meadow hay , and cut a thick peg of stout wood , and be sure that the horse see what you be do .
Then it will ask you what it be for , and you will say , ` With this plait I intend to bind up your mouth so that you can not eat any more , and with this peg I be go to keep you still in one spot , so that you can not scatter your corn and water all over the place ! '
After these word the maiden go away as softly a she have come .
Early the next morning he set to work .
His scythe dance through the grass much more easily than he have hop , and soon he have enough to fill the manger .
He put it in the crib , and return with a second supply , when to his horror he find the crib empty .
Then he know that without the maiden 's advice he would certainly have be lose , and begin to put it into practice .
He take out the rush which have somehow get mixed up with the hay , and plait them quickly .
` My son , what be you do ? '
ask the horse wonderingly .
` Oh , nothing ! '
reply he .
` Just weave a chin strap to bind your jaw together , in case you might wish to eat any more ! '
The white horse sigh deeply when it hear this , and make up it mind to be content with what it have eat .
The youth next begin to clean out the stall , and the horse know it have find a master ; and by mid-day there be still fodder in the manger , and the place be as clean a a new pin .
He have barely finish when in walk the old man , who stand astonish at the door .
` Is it really you who have be clever enough to do that ? '
he ask .
` Or have some one else give you a hint ? '
` Oh , I have have no help , ' reply the prince , ` except what my poor weak head could give me . '
The old man frown , and go away , and the prince rejoice that everything have turn out so well .
In the even his master say , ` To-morrow I have no special task to set you , but a the girl have a great deal to do in the house you must milk the black cow for her .
But take care you milk her dry , or it may be the bad for you . '
` Well , ' think the prince a he go away , ` unless there be some trick behind , this do not sound very hard .
I have never milk a cow before , but I have good strong finger . '
He be very sleepy , and be just go toward his room , when the maiden come to him and ask : ` What be your task to-morrow ? ' '
I be to help you , ' he answer , ` and have nothing to do all day , except to milk the black cow dry . '
` Oh , you be unlucky , ' cry she .
` If you be to try from morning till night you could n't do it .
There be only one way of escape the danger , and that be , when you go to milk her , take with you a pan of burning coal and a pair of tongs .
Place the pan on the floor of the stall , and the tongs on the fire , and blow with all your might , till the coal burn brightly .
The black cow will ask you what be the meaning of all this , and you must answer what I will whisper to you . '
And she stand on tip-toe and whisper something in his ear , and then go away .
The dawn have scarcely redden the sky when the prince jump out of bed , and , with the pan of coal in one hand and the milk pail in the other , go straight to the cow 's stall , and begin to do exactly a the maiden have tell him the evening before .
The black cow watch him with surprise for some time , and then say : ` What be you do , sonny ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' answer he ; ' I be only heat a pair of tongs in case you may not feel inclined to give a much milk a I want . '
The cow sigh deeply , and look at the milkman with fear , but he take no notice , and milk briskly into the pail , till the cow run dry .
Just at that moment the old man enter the stable , and sit down to milk the cow himself , but not a drop of milk could he get .
` Have you really manage it all yourself , or do somebody help you ? ' '
I have nobody to help me , ' answer the prince , ` but my own poor head . '
The old man get up from his seat and go away .
That night , when the prince go to his master to hear what his next day 's work be to be , the old man say : ' I have a little hay-stack out in the meadow which must be bring in to dry .
To-morrow you will have to stack it all in the shed , and , a you value your life , be careful not to leave the small strand behind . '
The prince be overjoy to hear he have nothing worse to do .
` To carry a little hay-rick require no great skill , ' think he , ` and it will give me no trouble , for the horse will have to draw it in .
I be certainly not go to spare the old grandmother . '
By-and-by the maiden steal up to ask what task he have for the next day .
The young man laugh , and say : ` It appear that I have get to learn all kind of farmer 's work .
To-morrow I have to carry a hay-rick , and leave not a stalk in the meadow , and that be my whole day 's work ! '
` Oh , you unlucky creature ! '
cry she ; ` and how do you think you be to do it .
If you have all the men in the world to help you , you could not clear off this one little hay-rick in a week .
The instant you have throw down the hay at the top , it will take root again from below .
But listen to what I say .
You must steal out at daybreak to-morrow and bring out the white horse and some good strong rope .
Then get on the hay-stack , put the rope round it , and harness the horse to the rope .
When you be ready , climb up the hay-stack and begin to count one , two , three .
The horse will ask you what you be count , and you must be sure to answer what I whisper to you . '
So the maiden whisper something in his ear , and leave the room .
And the prince know nothing well to do than to get into bed .
He sleep soundly , and it be still almost dark when he get up and proceed to carry out the instruction give him by the girl .
First he choose some stout rope , and then he lead the horse out of the stable and ride it to the hay-stack , which be make up of fifty cartload , so that it could hardly be call ' a little one . '
The prince do all that the maiden have tell him , and when at last he be seat on top of the rick , and have count up to twenty , he hear the horse ask in amazement : ` What be you count up there , my son ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' say he , ' I be just amuse myself with count the pack of wolf in the forest , but there be really so many of them that I do n't think I should ever be do . '
The word ` wolf ' be hardly out of his mouth than the white horse be off like the wind , so that in the twinkling of an eye it have reach the shed , drag the hay-stack behind it .
The master be dumb with surprise a he come in after breakfast and find his man 's day 's work quite do .
` Was it really you who be so clever ? '
ask he .
` Or do some one give you good advice ? '
` Oh , I have only myself to take counsel with , ' say the prince , and the old man go away , shake his head .
Late in the even the prince go to his master to learn what he be to do next day .
` To-morrow , ' say the old man , ` you must bring the white-headed calf to the meadow , and , a you value your life , take care it do not escape from you . '
The prince answer nothing , but think , ` Well , most peasant of nineteen have get a whole herd to look after , so surely I can manage one . '
And he go towards his room , where the maiden meet him .
` To morrow I have get an idiot 's work , ' say he ; ` nothing but to take the white-headed calf to the meadow . '
` Oh , you unlucky be ! '
sigh she .
` Do you know that this calf be so swift that in a single day he can run three time round the world ?
Take heed to what I tell you .
Bind one end of this silk thread to the left fore-leg of the calf , and the other end to the little toe of your left foot , so that the calf will never be able to leave your side , whether you walk , stand , or lie . '
After this the prince go to bed and sleep soundly .
The next morning he do exactly what the maiden have tell him , and lead the calf with the silken thread to the meadow , where it stick to his side like a faithful dog .
By sunset , it be back again in it stall , and then come the master and say , with a frown , ` Were you really so clever yourself , or do somebody tell you what to do ? '
` Oh , I have only my own poor head , ' answer the prince , and the old man go away growl , ' I do n't believe a word of it !
I be sure you have find some clever friend ! '
In the evening he call the prince and say : ` To-morrow I have no work for you , but when I wake you must come before my bed , and give me your hand in greet . '
The young man wonder at this strange freak , and go laugh in search of the maiden .
` Ah , it be no laugh matter , ' sigh she .
` He mean to eat you , and there be only one way in which I can help you .
You must heat an iron shovel red hot , and hold it out to him instead of your hand . '
So next morning he waken very early , and have heat the shovel before the old man be awake .
At length he hear him call , ` You lazy fellow , where be you ?
Come and wish me good morning . '
But when the prince enter with the red-hot shovel his master only say , ' I be very ill to-day , and too weak even to touch your hand .
You must return this evening , when I may be good . '
The prince loiter about all day , and in the evening go back to the old man 's room .
He be receive in the most ; friendly manner , and , to his surprise , his master exclaim , ' I be very well satisfy with you .
Come to me at dawn and bring the maiden with you .
I know you have long love each other , and I wish to make you man and wife . '
The young man nearly jump into the air for joy , but , remember the rule of the house , he manage to keep still .
When he tell the maiden , he saw to his astonishment that she have become as white a a sheet , and she be quite dumb .
` The old man have find out who be your counsellor , ' she say when she could speak , ` and he mean to destroy u both . '
We must escape somehow , or else we shall be lose .
Take an axe , and cut off the head of the calf with one blow .
With a second , split it head in two , and in it brain you will see a bright red ball .
Bring that to me .
Meanwhile , I will do what be needful here .
And the prince think to himself , ` Better kill the calf than be kill ourselves .
If we can once escape , we will go back home .
The pea which I strew about must have sprout , so that we shall not miss the way . '
Then he go into the stall , and with one blow of the axe kill the calf , and with the second split it brain .
In an instant the place be fill with light , a the red ball fell from the brain of the calf .
The prince pick it up , and , wrap it round with a thick cloth , hide it in his bosom .
Mercifully , the cow sleep through it all , or by her cry she would have awaken the master .
He look round , and at the door stand the maiden , hold a little bundle in her arm .
` Where be the ball ? '
she ask .
` Here , ' answer he .
` We must lose no time in escape , ' she go on , and uncover a tiny bit of the shin ball , to light them on their way .
As the prince have expect the pea have take root , and grow into a little hedge , so that they be sure they would not lose the path .
As they flee , the girl tell him that she have overheard a conversation between the old man and his grandmother , say that she be a king 's daughter , whom the old fellow have obtain by cunning from her parent .
The prince , who know all about the affair , be silent , though he be glad from his heart that it have fall to his lot to set her free .
So they go on till the day begin to dawn .
The old man sleep very late that morning , and rub his eye till he be properly awake .
Then he remember that very soon the couple be to present themselves before him .
After wait and wait till quite a long time have pass , he say to himself , with a grin , ` Well , they be not in much hurry to be marry , ' and wait again .
At last he grow a little uneasy , and cry loudly , ` Man and maid !
what have become of you ? '
After repeat this many time , he become quite frighten , but , call a he would , neither man nor maid appear .
At last he jump angrily out of bed to go in search of the culprit , but only find an empty house , and bed that have never be sleep in .
Then he go straight to the stable , where the sight of the dead calf tell him all .
Swearing loudly , he open the door of the third stall quickly , and cry to his goblin servant to go and chase the fugitive .
` Bring them to me , however you may find them , for have them I must ! '
he say .
So spake the old man , and the servant flee like the wind .
The runaway be cross a great plain , when the maiden stop .
` Something have happen ! '
she say .
` The ball move in my hand , and I 'm sure we be be follow ! '
and behind them they saw a black cloud fly before the wind .
Then the maiden turn the ball thrice in her hand , and cry , ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a brook , And my lover into a little fish . '
And in an instant there be a brook with a fish swimming in it .
The goblin arrive just after , but , see nobody , wait for a little , then hurry home , leave the brook and the fish undisturbed .
When they be quite out of sight , the brook and the fish return to their usual shape and proceed on their journey .
When the goblin , tire and with empty hand , return , their master inquire what they have see , and if nothing strange have befall them .
` Nothing , ' say they ; ` the plain be quite empty , save for a brook and a fish swimming in it . '
` Idiots ! '
roar the master ; ` of course it be they ! '
And dash open the door of the fifth stall , he tell the goblin inside that they must go and drink up the brook , and catch the fish .
And the goblin jump up , and flew like the wind .
The young pair have almost reach the edge of the wood , when the maiden stop again .
` Something have happen , ' say she .
` The ball be move in my hand , ' and look round she behold a cloud fly towards them , large and blacker than the first , and strip with red .
` Those be our pursuer , ' cry she , and turn the ball three time in her hand she speak to it thus : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change u both .
Me into a wild rise bush , And him into a rise on my stem . '
And in the twinkling of an eye it be do .
Only just in time too , for the goblin be close at hand , and look round eagerly for the stream and the fish .
But neither stream nor fish be to be see ; nothing but a rise bush .
So they go sorrow home , and when they be out of sight the rise bush and rise return to their proper shape and walk all the faster for the little rest they have have .
` Well , do you find them ? '
ask the old man when his goblin come back .
` No , ' reply the leader of the goblin , ` we find neither brook nor fish in the desert . '
` And do you find nothing else at all ? '
` Oh , nothing but a rise tree on the edge of a wood , with a rise hang on it . '
` Idiots ! '
cry he .
` Why , that be they . '
And he throw open the door of the seventh stall , where his mighty goblin be lock in .
` Bring them to me , however you find them , dead or alive ! '
thunder he , ` for I will have them !
Tear up the rise tree and the root too , and do n't leave anything behind , however strange it may be ! '
The fugitive be rest in the shade of a wood , and be refresh themselves with food and drink .
Suddenly the maiden look up .
` Something have happen , ' say she .
` The ball have nearly jump out of my bosom !
Some one be certainly follow u , and the danger be near , but the tree hide our enemy from u . '
As she speak she take the ball in her hand , and say : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a breeze , And make my lover into a midge . '
An instant , and the girl be dissolve into thin air , while the prince dart about like a midge .
The next moment a crowd of goblin rush up , and look about in search of something strange , for neither a rise bush nor anything else be to be see .
But they have hardly turn their back to go home empty-handed when the prince and the maiden stood on the earth again .
` We must make all the haste we can , ' say she , ` before the old man himself come to seek u , for he will know u under any disguise . '
They run on till they reach such a dark part of the forest that , if it have not be for the light shed by the ball , they could not have make their way at all .
Worn out and breathless , they come at length to a large stone , and here the ball begin to move restlessly .
The maiden , see this , exclaim : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Roll the stone quickly to one side , That we may find a door . '
And in a moment the stone have roll away , and they have pass through the door to the world again .
` Now we be safe , ' cry she .
` Here the old wizard have no more power over u , and we can guard ourselves from his spell .
But , my friend , we have to part !
You will return to your parent , and I must go in search of mine . '
` No !
no ! '
exclaim the prince . '
I will never part from you .
You must come with me and be my wife .
We have go through many trouble together , and now we will share our joy .
The maiden resist his word for some time , but at last she go with him .
In the forest they meet a woodcutter , who tell them that in the palace , as well a in all the land , there have be great sorrow over the loss of the prince , and many year have now pass away during which they have find no trace of him .
So , by the help of the magic ball , the maiden manage that he should put on the same clothes that he have be wear at the time he have vanish , so that his father might know him more quickly .
She herself stay behind in a peasant 's hut , so that father and son might meet alone .
But the father be no long there , for the loss of his son have kill him ; and on his deathbed he confess to his people how he have contrive that the old wizard should carry away a peasant 's child instead of the prince , wherefore this punishment have fall upon him .
The prince weep bitterly when he hear this news , for he have love his father well , and for three day he eat and drank nothing .
But on the fourth day he stand in the presence of his people a their new king , and , call his councillor , he tell them all the strange thing that have befall him , and how the maiden have bear him safe through all .
And the councillor cry with one voice , ` Let her be your wife , and our liege lady . '
And that be the end of the story .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE CHILD WHO CAME FROM AN EGG Once upon a time there live a queen whose heart be sore because she have no child .
She be sad enough when her husband be at home with her , but when he be away she would see nobody , but sit and wept all day long .
Now it happen that a war break out with the king of a neighbouring country , and the queen be leave in the palace alone .
She be so unhappy that she felt a if the wall would stifle her , so she wander out into the garden , and throw herself down on a grassy bank , under the shade of a lime tree .
She have be there for some time , when a rustle among the leaf cause her to look up , and she saw an old woman limp on her crutch towards the stream that flow through the ground .
When she have quench her thirst , she come straight up to the queen , and say to her : ` Do not take it evil , noble lady , that I dare to speak to you , and do not be afraid of me , for it may be that I shall bring you good luck . '
The queen look at her doubtfully , and answer : ` You do not seem a if you have be very lucky yourself , or to have much good fortune to spare for anyone else . '
` Under rough bark lie smooth wood and sweet kernel , ' reply the old woman .
` Let me see your hand , that I may read the future . '
The queen hold out her hand , and the old woman examine it line closely .
Then she say , ` Your heart be heavy with two sorrow , one old and one new .
The new sorrow be for your husband , who be fight far away from you ; but , believe me , he be well , and will soon bring you joyful news .
But your other sorrow be much old than this .
Your happiness be spoil because you have no child . '
At these word the queen become scarlet , and try to draw away her hand , but the old woman say : ` Have a little patience , for there be some thing I want to see more clearly . '
` But who be you ? '
ask the queen , ` for you seem to be able to read my heart . '
` Never mind my name , ' answer she , ` but rejoice that it be permit to me to show you a way to lessen your grief .
You must , however , promise to do exactly what I tell you , if any good be to come of it . '
` Oh , I will obey you exactly , ' cry the queen , ` and if you can help me you shall have in return anything you ask for . '
The old woman stand think for a little : then she draw something from the fold of her dress , and , undo a number of wrapping , bring out a tiny basket make of birch-bark .
She hold it out to the queen , say , ` In the basket you will find a bird 's egg .
This you must be careful to keep in a warm place for three month , when it will turn into a doll .
Lay the doll in a basket line with soft wool , and leave it alone , for it will not need any food , and by-and-by you will find it have grow to be the size of a baby .
Then you will have a baby of your own , and you must put it by the side of the other child , and bring your husband to see his son and daughter .
The boy you will bring up yourself , but you must entrust the little girl to a nurse .
When the time come to have them christen you will invite me to be godmother to the princess , and this be how you must send the invitation .
Hidden in the cradle , you will find a goose 's wing : throw this out of the window , and I will be with you directly ; but be sure you tell no one of all the thing that have befall you . '
The queen be about to reply , but the old woman be already limp away , and before she have go two step she have turn into a young girl , who move so quickly that she seem rather to fly than to walk .
The queen , watch this transformation , could hardly believe her eye , and would have take it all for a dream , have it not be for the basket which she hold in her hand .
Feeling a different be from the poor sad woman who have wander into the garden so short a time before , she hasten to her room , and felt carefully in the basket for the egg .
There it be , a tiny thing of soft blue with little green spot , and she take it out and keep it in her bosom , which be the warm place she could think of .
A fortnight after the old woman have pay her visit , the king come home , have conquer his enemy .
At this proof that the old woman have speak truth , the queen 's heart bound , for she now have fresh hope that the rest of the prophecy might be fulfil .
She cherish the basket and the egg a her chiefest treasure , and have a golden case make for the basket , so that when the time come to lay the egg in it , it might not risk any harm .
Three month pass , and , a the old woman have bid her , the queen take the egg from her bosom , and lay it snugly amidst the warm woollen fold .
The next morning she go to look at it , and the first thing she saw be the broken eggshell , and a little doll lie among the piece .
Then she felt happy at last , and leave the doll in peace to grow , wait , a she have be tell , for a baby of her own to lay beside it .
In course of time , this come also , and the queen take the little girl out of the basket , and place it with her son in a golden cradle which glitter with precious stone .
Next she send for the king , who nearly go mad with joy at the sight of the child .
Soon there come a day when the whole court be order to be present at the christening of the royal baby , and when all be ready the queen softly open the window a little , and let the goose wing fly out .
The guest be come thick and fast , when suddenly there drive up a splendid coach draw by six cream-coloured horse , and out of it step a young lady dress in garment that shone like the sun .
Her face could not be see , for a veil cover her head , but a she come up to the place where the queen be stand with the baby she draw the veil aside , and everyone be dazzle with her beauty .
She take the little girl in her arm , and hold it up before the assembled company announce that henceforward it would be know by the name of Dotterine -- a name which no one understood but the queen , who know that the baby have come from the yolk of an egg .
The boy be call Willem .
After the feast be over and the guest be go away , the godmother lay the baby in the cradle , and say to the queen , ` Whenever the baby go to sleep , be sure you lay the basket beside her , and leave the eggshell in it .
As long a you do that , no evil can come to her ; so guard this treasure a the apple of your eye , and teach your daughter to do so likewise . '
Then , kiss the baby three time , she mount her coach and drive away .
The child thrive well , and Dotterine 's nurse love her a if she be the baby 's real mother .
Every day the little girl seem to grow prettier , and people use to say she would soon be as beautiful a her godmother , but no one knew , except the nurse , that at night , when the child slept , a strange and lovely lady bent over her .
At length she tell the queen what she have see , but they determine to keep it a a secret between themselves .
The twin be by this time nearly two year old , when the queen be take suddenly ill .
All the best doctor in the country be send for , but it be no use , for there be no cure for death .
The queen know she be die , and send for Dotterine and her nurse , who have now become her lady-in-waiting .
To her , a her most faithful servant , she give the lucky basket in charge , and beseech her to treasure it carefully .
` When my daughter , ' say the queen , ` be ten year old , you be to hand it over to her , but warn her solemnly that her whole future happiness depend on the way she guard it .
About my son , I have no fear .
He be the heir of the kingdom , and his father will look after him . '
The lady-in-waiting promise to carry out the queen 's direction , and above all to keep the affair a secret .
And that same morning the queen die .
After some year the king marry again , but he do not love his second wife a he have do his first , and have only married her for reason of ambition .
She hat her step-children , and the king , see this , keep them out of the way , under the care of Dotterine 's old nurse .
But if they ever stray across the path of the queen , she would kick them out of her sight like dog .
On Dotterine 's tenth birthday her nurse hand her over the cradle , and repeat to her her mother 's dying word ; but the child be too young to understand the value of such a gift , and at first think little about it .
Two more year slip by , when one day during the king 's absence the stepmother find Dotterine sit under a lime tree .
She fell as usual into a passion , and beat the child so badly that Dotterine go stagger to her own room .
Her nurse be not there , but suddenly , a she stand weep , her eye fell upon the golden case in which lay the precious basket .
She think it might contain something to amuse her , and look eagerly inside , but nothing be there save a handful of wool and two empty eggshell .
Very much disappoint , she lift the wool , and there lay the goose 's wing .
` What old rubbish , ' say the child to herself , and , turn , throw the wing out of the open window .
In a moment a beautiful lady stand beside her .
` Do not be afraid , ' say the lady , stroke Dotterine 's head . '
I be your godmother , and have come to pay you a visit .
Your red eye tell me that you be unhappy .
I know that your stepmother be very unkind to you , but be brave and patient , and good day will come .
She will have no power over you when you be grow up , and no one else can hurt you either , if only you be careful never to part from your basket , or to lose the eggshell that be in it .
Make a silken case for the little basket , and hide it away in your dress night and day and you will be safe from your stepmother and anyone that try to harm you .
But if you should happen to find yourself in any difficulty , and can not tell what to do , take the goose 's wing from the basket , and throw it out of the window , and in a moment I will come to help you .
Now come into the garden , that I may talk to you under the lime tree , where no one can hear u . '
They have so much to say to each other , that the sun be already set when the godmother have end all the good advice she wish to give the child , and saw it be time for her to be go .
` Hand me the basket , ' say she , ` for you must have some supper .
I can not let you go hungry to bed . '
Then , bend over the basket , she whisper some magic word , and instantly a table cover with fruit and cake stand on the ground before them .
When they have finish eating , the godmother lead the child back , and on the way teach her the word she must say to the basket when she want it to give her something .
In a few year more , Dotterine be a grown-up young lady , and those who saw her think that the world do not contain so lovely a girl .
About this time a terrible war break out , and the king and his army be beat back and back , till at length they have to retire into the town , and make ready for a siege .
It last so long that food begin to fail , and even in the palace there be not enough to eat .
So one morning Dotterine , who have have neither supper nor breakfast , and be feel very hungry , let her wing fly away .
She be so weak and miserable , that directly her godmother appear she burst into tear , and could not speak for some time .
` Do not cry so , dear child , ' say the godmother . '
I will carry you away from all this , but the others I must leave to take their chance . '
Then , bid Dotterine follow her , she pass through the gate of the town , and through the army outside , and nobody stop them , or seem to see them .
The next day the town surrender , and the king and all his courtier be take prisoner , but in the confusion his son manage to make his escape .
The queen have already meet her death from a spear carelessly throw .
As soon a Dotterine and her godmother be clear of the enemy , Dotterine take off her own clothes , and put on those of a peasant , and in order to disguise her good her godmother change her face completely .
` When good time come , ' her protectress say cheerfully , ` and you want to look like yourself again , you have only to whisper the word I have teach you into the basket , and say you would like to have your own face once more , and it will be all right in a moment .
But you will have to endure a little long yet . '
Then , warn her once more to take care of the basket , the lady bid the girl farewell .
For many day Dotterine wander from one place to another without find shelter , and though the food which she get from the basket prevent her from starve , she be glad enough to take service in a peasant 's house till brighter day dawn .
At first the work she have to do seemed very difficult , but either she be wonderfully quick in learn , or else the basket may have secretly help her .
Anyhow at the end of three day she could do everything as well a if she have clean pot and sweep room all her life .
One morning Dotterine be busy scour a wooden tub , when a noble lady happen to pass through the village .
The girl 's bright face a she stand in the front of the door with her tub attract the lady , and she stop and call the girl to come and speak to her .
` Would you not like to come and enter my service ? '
she ask .
` Very much , ' reply Dotterine , ` if my present mistress will allow me . '
` Oh , I will settle that , ' answer the lady ; and so she do , and the same day they set out for the lady 's house , Dotterine sit beside the coachman .
Six month go by , and then come the joyful news that the king 's son have collect an army and have defeat the usurper who have take his father 's place , but at the same moment Dotterine learn that the old king have die in captivity .
The girl weep bitterly for his loss , but in secrecy , a she have tell her mistress nothing about her past life .
At the end of a year of mourning , the young king let it be know that he intend to marry , and command all the maiden in the kingdom to come to a feast , so that he might choose a wife from among them .
For week all the mother and all the daughter in the land be busy prepare beautiful dress and try new way of put up their hair , and the three lovely daughter of Dotterine 's mistress be as much excite a the rest .
The girl be clever with her finger , and be occupy all day with get ready their smart clothes , but at night when she go to bed she always dream that her godmother bent over her and say , ` Dress your young lady for the feast , and when they have start follow them yourself .
Nobody will be so fine a you . '
When the great day come , Dotterine could hardly contain herself , and when she have dress her young mistress and see them depart with their mother she fling herself on her bed , and burst into tear .
Then she seem to hear a voice whisper to her , ` Look in your basket , and you will find in it everything that you need . '
Dotterine do not want to be tell twice !
Up she jump , seize her basket , and repeat the magic word , and behold !
there lay a dress on the bed , shin a a star .
She put it on with finger that tremble with joy , and , look in the glass , be strike dumb at her own beauty .
She go downstairs , and in front of the door stand a fine carriage , into which she step and be drive away like the wind .
The king 's palace be a long way off , yet it seem only a few minute before Dotterine draw up at the great gate .
She be just go to alight , when she suddenly remember she have leave her basket behind her .
What be she to do ?
Go back and fetch it , lest some ill-fortune should befall her , or enter the palace and trust to chance that nothing evil would happen ?
But before she could decide , a little swallow fly up with the basket in it beak , and the girl be happy again .
The feast be already at it height , and the hall be brilliant with youth and beauty , when the door be fling wide and Dotterine enter , make all the other maiden look pale and dim beside her .
Their hope fade a they gaze , but their mother whisper together , say , ` Surely this be our lost princess ! '
The young king do not know her again , but he never leave her side nor take his eye from her .
And at midnight a strange thing happen .
A thick cloud suddenly fill the hall , so that for a moment all be dark .
Then the mist suddenly grow bright , and Dotterine 's godmother be see stand there .
` This , ' she say , turn to the king , ` be the girl whom you have always believe to be your sister , and who vanish during the siege .
She be not your sister at all , but the daughter of the king of a neighbouring country , who be give to your mother to bring up , to save her from the hand of a wizard . '
Then she vanish , and be never see again , nor the wonder-working basket either ; but now that Dotterine 's trouble be over she could get on without them , and she and the young king live happily together till the end of their day .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
STAN BOLOVAN Once upon a time what happen do happen , and if it have not happen this story would never have be tell .
On the outskirt of a village just where the ox be turn out to pasture , and the pig roam about burrow with their nose among the root of the tree , there stand a small house .
In the house live a man who have a wife , and the wife be sad all day long .
` Dear wife , what be wrong with you that you hang your head like a droop rosebud ? '
ask her husband one morning .
` You have everything you want ; why can not you be merry like other woman ? '
` Leave me alone , and do not seek to know the reason , ' reply she , burst into tear , and the man think that it be no time to question her , and go away to his work .
He could not , however , forget all about it , and a few day after he inquire again the reason of her sadness , but only get the same reply .
At length he felt he could bear it no longer , and try a third time , and then his wife turn and answer him .
` Good gracious ! '
cry she , ` why can not you let thing be a they be ?
If I be to tell you , you would become just as wretched a myself .
If you would only believe , it be far good for you to know nothing . '
But no man yet be ever content with such an answer .
The more you beg him not to inquire , the great be his curiosity to learn the whole .
` Well , if you MUST know , ' say the wife at last , ' I will tell you .
There be no luck in this house -- no luck at all ! '
` Is not your cow the best milker in all the village ?
Are not your tree a full of fruit a your hive be full of bee ?
Has anyone cornfield like ours ?
Really you talk nonsense when you say thing like that ! '
` Yes , all that you say be true , but we have no child . '
Then Stan understood , and when a man once understands and have his eye open it be no longer well with him .
From that day the little house in the outskirt contain an unhappy man as well a an unhappy woman .
And at the sight of her husband 's misery the woman become more wretched than ever .
And so matter go on for some time .
Some week have pass , and Stan think he would consult a wise man who live a day 's journey from his own house .
The wise man be sit before his door when he come up , and Stan fell on his knee before him .
` Give me child , my lord , give me child . '
` Take care what you be ask , ' reply the wise man .
` Will not child be a burden to you ?
Are you rich enough to fee and clothe them ? '
` Only give them to me , my lord , and I will manage somehow ! '
and at a sign from the wise man Stan go his way .
He reach home that even tired and dusty , but with hope in his heart .
As he draw near his house a sound of voice strike upon his ear , and he look up to see the whole place full of child .
Children in the garden , child in the yard , child look out of every window -- it seem to the man a if all the child in the world must be gather there .
And none be big than the other , but each be small than the other , and every one be more noisy and more impudent and more daring than the rest , and Stan gaze and grow cold with horror a he realise that they all belong to him .
` Good gracious !
how many there be !
how many ! '
he mutter to himself .
` Oh , but not one too many , ' smile his wife , come up with a crowd more child cling to her skirt .
But even she find that it be not so easy to look after a hundred child , and when a few day have pass and they have eat up all the food there be in the house , they begin to cry , ` Father !
I be hungry -- I be hungry , ' till Stan scratch his head and wonder what he be to do next .
It be not that he think there be too many child , for his life have seem more full of joy since they appear , but now it come to the point he do not know how he be to fee them .
The cow have cease to give milk , and it be too early for the fruit tree to ripen .
` Do you know , old woman ! '
say he one day to his wife , ' I must go out into the world and try to bring back food somehow , though I can not tell where it be to come from . '
To the hungry man any road be long , and then there be always the thought that he have to satisfy a hundred greedy child as well a himself .
Stan wander , and wander , and wander , till he reach to the end of the world , where that which be , be mingle with that which be not , and there he saw , a little way off , a sheepfold , with seven sheep in it .
In the shadow of some tree lay the rest of the flock .
Stan creep up , hop that he might manage to decoy some of them away quietly , and drive them home for food for his family , but he soon find this could not be .
For at midnight he hear a rushing noise , and through the air fly a dragon , who drive apart a ram , a sheep , and a lamb , and three fine cattle that be lie down close by .
And besides these he take the milk of seventy-seven sheep , and carry it home to his old mother , that she might bathe in it and grow young again .
And this happen every night .
The shepherd bewail himself in vain : the dragon only laugh , and Stan saw that this be not the place to get food for his family .
But though he quite understand that it be almost hopeless to fight against such a powerful monster , yet the thought of the hungry child at home clung to him like a burr , and would not be shake off , and at last he say to the shepherd , ` What will you give me if I rid you of the dragon ? '
` One of every three ram , one of every three sheep , one of every three lamb , ' answer the herd .
` It be a bargain , ' reply Stan , though at the moment he do not know how , suppose he DID come off the victor , he would ever be able to drive so large a flock home .
However , that matter could be settle later .
At present night be not far off , and he must consider how best to fight with the dragon .
Just at midnight , a horrible feeling that be new and strange to him come over Stan -- a feeling that he could not put into word even to himself , but which almost force him to give up the battle and take the short road home again .
He half turn ; then he remember the child , and turn back .
` You or I , ' say Stan to himself , and take up his position on the edge of the flock .
` Stop ! '
he suddenly cry , a the air be fill with a rush noise , and the dragon come dash past .
` Dear me ! '
exclaim the dragon , look round .
` Who be you , and where do you come from ? ' '
I be Stan Bolovan , who eat rock all night , and in the day feed on the flower of the mountain ; and if you meddle with those sheep I will carve a cross on your back . '
When the dragon heard these word he stand quite still in the middle of the road , for he know he have meet with his match .
` But you will have to fight me first , ' he say in a trembling voice , for when you face him properly he be not brave at all . '
I fight you ? '
replied Stan , ` why I could slay you with one breath ! '
Then , stoop to pick up a large cheese which lay at his foot , he add , ` Go and get a stone like this out of the river , so that we may lose no time in see who be the best man . '
The dragon do a Stan bid him , and bring back a stone out of the brook .
` Can you get buttermilk out of your stone ? '
ask Stan .
The dragon pick up his stone with one hand , and squeeze it till it fell into powder , but no buttermilk flow from it .
` Of course I ca n't ! '
he say , half angrily .
` Well , if you ca n't , I can , ' answered Stan , and he press the cheese till buttermilk flow through his finger .
When the dragon saw that , he think it be time he make the best of his way home again , but Stan stand in his path .
` We have still some account to settle , ' say he , ` about what you have be do here , ' and the poor dragon be too frighten to stir , l Stan should slay him at one breath and bury him among the flower in the mountain pasture .
` Listen to me , ' he say at last . '
I see you be a very useful person , and my mother have need of a fellow like you .
Suppose you enter her service for three day , which be as long a one of your year , and she will pay you each day seven sack full of ducat . '
Three time seven sack full of ducat !
The offer be very tempting , and Stan could not resist it .
He do not waste word , but nod to the dragon , and they start along the road .
It be a long , long way , but when they come to the end they find the dragon 's mother , who be as old a time itself , expect them .
Stan saw her eye shin like lamp from afar , and when they enter the house they behold a huge kettle stand on the fire , fill with milk .
When the old mother find that her son have arrive empty-handed she grow very angry , and fire and flame dart from her nostril , but before she could speak the dragon turn to Stan .
` Stay here , ' say he , ` and wait for me ; I be go to explain thing to my mother . '
Stan be already repent bitterly that he have ever come to such a place , but , since he be there , there be nothing for it but to take everything quietly , and not show that he be afraid .
` Listen , mother , ' say the dragon as soon a they be alone , ' I have bring this man in order to get rid of him .
He be a terrific fellow who eat rock , and can press buttermilk out of a stone , ' and he tell her all that have happen the night before .
` Oh , just leave him to me ! '
she say . '
I have never yet let a man slip through my finger . '
So Stan have to stay and do the old mother service .
The next day she tell him that he and her son should try which be the strong , and she take down a huge club , bind seven time with iron .
The dragon pick it up a if it have be a feather , and , after whirl it round his head , flung it lightly three mile away , tell Stan to beat that if he could .
They walk to the spot where the club lay .
Stan stoop and felt it ; then a great fear come over him , for he know that he and all his child together would never lift that club from the ground .
` What be you do ? '
ask the dragon . '
I be think what a beautiful club it be , and what a pity it be that it should cause your death . '
` How do you mean -- my death ? '
ask the dragon .
` Only that I be afraid that if I throw it you will never see another dawn .
You do n't know how strong I be ! '
` Oh , never mind that be quick and throw . '
` If you be really in earnest , let u go and feast for three day : that will at any rate give you three extra day of life . '
Stan speak so calmly that this time the dragon begin to get a little frightened , though he do not quite believe that thing would be as bad a Stan say .
They return to the house , take all the food that could be find in the old mother 's larder , and carry it back to the place where the club be lie .
Then Stan seat himself on the sack of provision , and remain quietly watch the setting moon .
` What be you do ? '
ask the dragon .
` Waiting till the moon get out of my way . '
` What do you mean ?
I do n't understand . '
` Do n't you see that the moon be exactly in my way ?
But of course , if you like , I will throw the club into the moon . '
At these word the dragon grow uncomfortable for the second time .
He prize the club , which have be leave him by his grandfather , very highly , and have no desire that it should be lose in the moon .
` I 'll tell you what , ' he say , after think a little .
` Do n't throw the club at all .
I will throw it a second time , and that will do just as well . '
` No , certainly not ! '
replied Stan .
` Just wait till the moon set . '
But the dragon , in dread l Stan should fulfil his threat , try what bribe could do , and in the end have to promise Stan seven sack of ducat before he be suffer to throw back the club himself .
` Oh , dear me , that be indeed a strong man , ' say the dragon , turn to his mother .
` Would you believe that I have have the great difficulty in prevent him from throw the club into the moon ? '
Then the old woman grow uncomfortable too !
Only to think of it !
It be no joke to throw thing into the moon !
So no more be heard of the club , and the next day they have all something else to think about .
` Go and fetch me water ! '
say the mother , when the morning break , and give them twelve buffalo skin with the order to keep fill them till night .
They set out at once for the brook , and in the twinkling of an eye the dragon have fill the whole twelve , carry them into the house , and bring them back to Stan .
Stan be tire : he could scarcely lift the bucket when they be empty , and he shudder to think of what would happen when they be full .
But he only take an old knife out of his pocket and begin to scratch up the earth near the brook .
` What be you do there ?
How be you go to carry the water into the house ? '
ask the dragon .
` How ?
Dear me , that be easy enough !
I shall just take the brook ! '
At these word the dragon 's jaw drop .
This be the last thing that have ever enter his head , for the brook have be a it be since the day of his grandfather .
` I 'll tell you what ! '
he say .
` Let me carry your skin for you . '
` Most certainly not , ' answered Stan , go on with his digging , and the dragon , in dread lest he should fulfil his threat , try what bribe would do , and in the end have again to promise seven sack of ducat before Stan would agree to leave the brook alone and let him carry the water into the house .
On the third day the old mother send Stan into the forest for wood , and , a usual , the dragon go with him .
Before you could count three he have pull up more tree than Stan could have cut down in a lifetime , and have arrange them neatly in row .
When the dragon have finish , Stan begin to look about him , and , choose the big of the tree , he climb up it , and , break off a long rope of wild vine , bound the top of the tree to the one next it .
And so he do to a whole line of tree .
` What be you do there ? '
ask the dragon .
` You can see for yourself , ' answered Stan , go quietly on with his work .
` Why be you tie the tree together ? '
` Not to give myself unnecessary work ; when I pull up one , all the others will come up too . '
` But how will you carry them home ? '
` Dear me !
do n't you understand that I be go to take the whole forest back with me ? '
say Stan , tie two other tree a he speak .
` I 'll tell you what , ' cry the dragon , tremble with fear at the thought of such a thing ; ` let me carry the wood for you , and you shall have seven time seven sack full of ducat . '
` You be a good fellow , and I agree to your proposal , ' answered Stan , and the dragon carry the wood .
Now the three day ' service which be to be reckon a a year be over , and the only thing that disturb Stan be , how to get all those ducat back to his home !
In the even the dragon and his mother have a long talk , but Stan hear every word through a crack in the ceiling .
` Woe be to u , mother , ' say the dragon ; ` this man will soon get u into his power .
Give him his money , and let u be rid of him . '
But the old mother be fond of money , and do not like this .
` Listen to me , ' say she ; ` you must murder him this very night . ' '
I be afraid , ' answer he .
` There be nothing to fear , ' reply the old mother .
` When he be asleep take the club , and hit him on the head with it .
It be easily do . '
And so it would have be , have not Stan hear all about it .
And when the dragon and his mother have put out their light , he take the pig ' trough and fill it with earth , and place it in his bed , and cover it with clothes .
Then he hide himself underneath , and begin to snore loudly .
Very soon the dragon stole softly into the room , and give a tremendous blow on the spot where Stan 's head should have be .
Stan groan loudly from under the bed , and the dragon go away as softly a he have come .
Directly he have close the door , Stan lift out the pig ' trough , and lay down himself , after make everything clean and tidy , but he be wise enough not to shut his eye that night .
The next morning he come into the room when the dragon and his mother be have their breakfast .
` Good morning , ' say he .
` Good morning .
How do you sleep ? '
` Oh , very well , but I dream that a flea have bite me , and I seem to feel it still . '
The dragon and his mother look at each other .
` Do you hear that ? '
whisper he .
` He talk of a flea .
I break my club on his head . '
This time the mother grow as frightened a her son .
There be nothing to be do with a man like this , and she make all haste to fill the sack with ducat , so a to get rid of Stan as soon a possible .
But on his side Stan be tremble like an aspen , a he could not lift even one sack from the ground .
So he stand still and look at them .
` What be you stand there for ? '
ask the dragon .
` Oh , I be stand here because it have just occur to me that I should like to stay in your service for another year .
I be ashamed that when I get home they should see I have bring back so little .
I know that they will cry out , `` Just look at Stan Bolovan , who in one year have grow as weak a a dragon . '' '
Here a shriek of dismay be hear both from the dragon and his mother , who declare they would give him seven or even seven time seven the number of sack if he would only go away .
` I 'll tell you what ! '
say Stan at last . '
I see you do n't want me to stay , and I should be very sorry to make myself disagreeable .
I will go at once , but only on condition that you shall carry the money home yourself , so that I may not be put to shame before my friend . '
The word be hardly out of his mouth before the dragon have snatch up the sack and pile them on his back .
Then he and Stan set forth .
The way , though really not far , be yet too long for Stan , but at length he hear his child 's voice , and stop short .
He do not wish the dragon to know where he live , l some day he should come to take back his treasure .
Was there nothing he could say to get rid of the monster ?
Suddenly an idea come into Stan 's head , and he turn round . '
I hardly know what to do , ' say he . '
I have a hundred child , and I be afraid they may do you harm , a they be always ready for a fight .
However , I will do my best to protect you . '
A hundred child !
That be indeed no joke !
The dragon let fall the sack from terror , and then pick them up again .
But the child , who have have nothing to eat since their father have leave them , come rush towards him , wave knife in their right hand and fork in their left , and cry , ` Give u dragon 's flesh ; we will have dragon 's flesh . '
At this dreadful sight the dragon wait no longer : he fling down his sack where he stand and take flight as fast a he could , so terrify at the fate that await him that from that day he have never dare to show his face in the world again .
-LRB- Adapted from Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE TWO FROGS Once upon a time in the country of Japan there live two frog , one of whom make his home in a ditch near the town of Osaka , on the sea coast , while the other dwelt in a clear little stream which run through the city of Kioto .
At such a great distance apart , they have never even heard of each other ; but , funnily enough , the idea come into both their head at once that they should like to see a little of the world , and the frog who live at Kioto want to visit Osaka , and the frog who live at Osaka wish to go to Kioto , where the great Mikado have his palace .
So one fine morning in the spring they both set out along the road that lead from Kioto to Osaka , one from one end and the other from the other .
The journey be more tire than they expect , for they do not know much about travel , and half way between the two town there arise a mountain which have to be climb .
It take them a long time and a great many hop to reach the top , but there they be at last , and what be the surprise of each to see another frog before him !
They look at each other for a moment without speaking , and then fell into conversation , explain the cause of their meeting so far from their home .
It be delightful to find that they both felt the same wish -- to learn a little more of their native country -- and a there be no sort of hurry they stretch themselves out in a cool , damp place , and agree that they would have a good rest before they part to go their way .
` What a pity we be not big , ' say the Osaka frog ; ` for then we could see both town from here , and tell if it be worth our while go on . '
` Oh , that be easily manage , ' return the Kioto frog .
` We have only get to stand up on our hind leg , and hold on to each other , and then we can each look at the town he be travel to . '
This idea please the Osaka frog so much that he at once jump up and put his front paw on the shoulder of his friend , who have rise also .
There they both stand , stretch themselves as high a they could , and hold each other tightly , so that they might not fall down .
The Kioto frog turn his nose towards Osaka , and the Osaka frog turn his nose towards Kioto ; but the foolish thing forget that when they stand up their great eye lay in the back of their head , and that though their nose might point to the place to which they want to go their eye beheld the place from which they have come .
` Dear me ! '
cry the Osaka frog , ` Kioto be exactly like Osaka .
It be certainly not worth such a long journey .
I shall go home ! '
` If I have have any idea that Osaka be only a copy of Kioto I should never have travel all this way , ' exclaim the frog from Kioto , and a he speak he take his hand from his friend 's shoulder , and they both fell down on the grass .
Then they take a polite farewell of each other , and set off for home again , and to the end of their life they believe that Osaka and Kioto , which be a different to look at as two town can be , be as like a two pea .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE STORY OF A GAZELLE Once upon a time there live a man who waste all his money , and grow so poor that his only food be a few grain of corn , which he scratch like a fowl from out of a dust-heap .
One day he be scratch a usual among a dust-heap in the street , hop to find something for breakfast , when his eye fell upon a small silver coin , call an eighth , which he greedily snatch up .
` Now I can have a proper meal , ' he think , and after drink some water at a well he lay down and sleep so long that it be sunrise before he wake again .
Then he jump up and return to the dust-heap .
` For who know , ' he say to himself , ` whether I may not have some good luck again . '
As he be walk down the road , he saw a man come towards him , carry a cage make of twig .
` Hi !
you fellow ! '
call he , ` what have you get inside there ? '
` Gazelles , ' reply the man .
` Bring them here , for I should like to see them . '
As he speak , some men who be stand by begin to laugh , say to the man with the cage : ` You have good take care how you bargain with him , for he have nothing at all except what he pick up from a dust-heap , and if he ca n't fee himself , will he be able to fee a gazelle ? '
But the man with the cage make answer : ` Since I start from my home in the country , fifty people at the least have call me to show them my gazelle , and be there one among them who care to buy ?
It be the custom for a trader in merchandise to be summon hither and thither , and who know where one may find a buyer ? '
And he take up his cage and go towards the scratcher of dust-heaps , and the men go with him .
` What do you ask for your gazelle ? '
say the beggar .
` Will you let me have one for an eighth ? '
And the man with the cage take out a gazelle , and hold it out , say , ` Take this one , master ! '
And the beggar take it and carry it to the dust-heap , where he scratch carefully till he find a few grain of corn , which he divide with his gazelle .
This he do night and morning , till five day go by .
Then , a he sleep , the gazelle wake him , say , ` Master . '
And the man answer , ` How be it that I see a wonder ? '
` What wonder ? '
ask the gazelle .
` Why , that you , a gazelle , should be able to speak , for , from the beginning , my father and mother and all the people that be in the world have never tell me of a talk gazelle . '
` Never mind that , ' say the gazelle , ` but listen to what I say !
First , I take you for my master .
Second , you give for me all you have in the world .
I can not run away from you , but give me , I pray you , leave to go every morning and seek food for myself , and every evening I will come back to you .
What you find in the dust-heaps be not enough for both of u . '
` Go , then , ' answer the master ; and the gazelle go .
When the sun have set , the gazelle come back , and the poor man be very glad , and they lay down and slept side by side .
In the morning it say to him , ' I be go away to fee . '
And the man reply , ` Go , my son , ' but he felt very lonely without his gazelle , and set out sooner than usual for the dust-heap where he generally find most corn .
And glad he be when the evening come , and he could return home .
He lay on the grass chew tobacco , when the gazelle trot up .
` Good evening , my master ; how have you fare all day ?
I have be rest in the shade in a place where there be sweet grass when I be hungry , and fresh water when I be thirsty , and a soft breeze to fan me in the heat .
It be far away in the forest , and no one know of it but me , and to-morrow I shall go again . '
So for five day the gazelle set off at daybreak for this cool spot , but on the fifth day it come to a place where the grass be bitter , and it do not like it , and scratch , hop to tear away the bad blade .
But , instead , it saw something lie in the earth , which turn out to be a diamond , very large and bright .
` Oh , ho ! '
say the gazelle to itself , ` perhaps now I can do something for my master who buy me with all the money he have ; but I must be careful or they will say he have steal it .
I have well take it myself to some great rich man , and see what it will do for me . '
Directly the gazelle have come to this conclusion , it pick up the diamond in it mouth , and go on and on and on through the forest , but find no place where a rich man be likely to dwell .
For two more day it run , from dawn to dark , till at last early one morning it catch sight of a large town , which give it fresh courage .
The people be stand about the street do their marketing , when the gazelle bound past , the diamond flashing a it run .
They call after it , but it take no notice till it reach the palace , where the sultan be sit , enjoy the cool air .
And the gazelle gallop up to him , and lay the diamond at his foot .
The sultan look first at the diamond and next at the gazelle ; then he order his attendant to bring cushion and a carpet , that the gazelle might rest itself after it long journey .
And he likewise order milk to be bring , and rice , that it might eat and drink and be refresh .
And when the gazelle be rest , the sultan say to it : ` Give me the news you have come with . '
And the gazelle answer : ' I be come with this diamond , which be a pledge from my master the Sultan Darai .
He have hear you have a daughter , and send you this small token , and begs you will give her to him to wife . '
And the sultan say : ' I be content .
The wife be his wife , the family be his family , the slave be his slave .
Let him come to me empty-handed , I be content . '
When the sultan have end , the gazelle rise , and say : ` Master , farewell ; I go back to our town , and in eight day , or it may be in eleven day , we shall arrive a your guest . '
And the sultan answer : ` So let it be . '
All this time the poor man far away have be mourn and weep for his gazelle , which he think have run away from him for ever .
And when it come in at the door he rush to embrace it with such joy that he would not allow it a chance to speak .
` Be still , master , and do n't cry , ' say the gazelle at last ; ` let u sleep now , and in the morning , when I go , follow me . '
With the first ray of dawn they get up and go into the forest , and on the fifth day , a they be rest near a stream , the gazelle give it master a sound beating , and then bid him stay where he be till it return .
And the gazelle run off , and about ten o'clock it come near the sultan 's palace , where the road be all line with soldier who be there to do honour to Sultan Darai .
And directly they catch sight of the gazelle in the distance one of the soldier run on and say , ` Sultan Darai be come : I have see the gazelle . '
Then the sultan rise up , and call his whole court to follow him , and go out to meet the gazelle , who , bound up to him , give him greeting .
The sultan answer politely , and inquire where it have leave it master , whom it have promise to bring back .
` Alas ! '
reply the gazelle , ` he be lie in the forest , for on our way here we be meet by robber , who , after beat and rob him , take away all his clothes .
And he be now hide under a bush , lest a passing stranger might see him . '
The sultan , on hear what have happen to his future son-in-law , turn his horse and rode to the palace , and bid a groom to harness the best horse in the stable and order a woman slave to bring a bag of clothes , such a a man might want , out of the chest ; and he choose out a tunic and a turban and a sash for the waist , and fetch himself a gold-hilted sword , and a dagger and a pair of sandal , and a stick of sweet-smelling wood .
` Now , ' say he to the gazelle , ` take these thing with the soldier to the sultan , that he may be able to come . '
And the gazelle answer : ` Can I take those soldier to go and put my master to shame a he lie there naked ?
I be enough by myself , my lord . '
` How will you be enough , ' ask the sultan , ` to manage this horse and all these clothes ? '
` Oh , that be easily do , ' reply the gazelle .
` Fasten the horse to my neck and tie the clothes to the back of the horse , and be sure they be fix firmly , a I shall go faster than he do . '
Everything be carry out a the gazelle have order , and when all be ready it say to the sultan : ` Farewell , my lord , I be go . '
` Farewell , gazelle , ' answer the sultan ; ` when shall we see you again ? '
` To-morrow about five , ' reply the gazelle , and , give a tug to the horse 's rein , they set off at a gallop .
The sultan watch them till they be out of sight : then he say to his attendant , ` That gazelle come from gentle hand , from the house of a sultan , and that be what make it so different from other gazelle . '
And in the eye of the sultan the gazelle become a person of consequence .
Meanwhile the gazelle run on till it come to the place where it master be seat , and his heart laugh when he saw the gazelle .
And the gazelle say to him , ` Get up , my master , and bathe in the stream ! '
and when the man have bath it say again , ` Now rub yourself well with earth , and rub your teeth well with sand to make them bright and shin . '
And when this be do it say , ` The sun have go down behind the hill ; it be time for u to go ' : so it go and bring the clothes from the back of the horse , and the man put them on and be well pleased .
` Master ! '
say the gazelle when the man be ready , ` be sure that where we be go you keep silence , except for give greeting and ask for news .
Leave all the talk to me .
I have provide you with a wife , and have make her present of clothes and turban and rare and precious thing , so it be needless for you to speak . '
` Very good , I will be silent , ' reply the man a he mount the horse .
` You have give all this ; it be you who be the master , and I who be the slave , and I will obey you in all thing . '
` So they go their way , and they go and go till the gazelle saw in the distance the palace of the sultan .
Then it say , ` Master , that be the house we be go to , and you be not a poor man any long : even your name be new . '
` What IS my name , eh , my father ? '
ask the man .
` Sultan Darai , ' say the gazelle .
Very soon some soldier come to meet them , while others run off to tell the sultan of their approach .
And the sultan set off at once , and the vizier and the emir , and the judge , and the rich men of the city , all follow him .
Directly the gazelle saw them come , it say to it master : ` Your father-in-law be come to meet you ; that be he in the middle , wear a mantle of sky-blue .
Get off your horse and go to greet him . '
And Sultan Darai leapt from his horse , and so do the other sultan , and they give their hand to one another and kiss each other , and go together into the palace .
The next morning the gazelle go to the room of the sultan , and say to him : ` My lord , we want you to marry u our wife , for the soul of Sultan Darai be eager . '
` The wife be ready , so call the priest , ' answer he , and when the ceremony be over a cannon be fire and music be play , and within the palace there be feast .
` Master , ' say the gazelle the following morning , ' I be set out on a journey , and I shall not be back for seven day , and perhaps not then .
But be careful not to leave the house till I come . '
And the master answer , ' I will not leave the house . '
And it go to the sultan of the country and say to him : ` My lord , Sultan Darai have send me to his town to get the house in order .
It will take me seven day , and if I be not back in seven day he will not leave the palace till I return . '
` Very good , ' say the sultan .
And it go and it go through the forest and wilderness , till it arrive at a town full of fine house .
At the end of the chief road be a great house , beautiful exceedingly , build of sapphire and turquoise and marble .
` That , ' think the gazelle , ` be the house for my master , and I will call up my courage and go and look at the people who be in it , if any people there be .
For in this town have I a yet see no people .
If I die , I die , and if I live , I live .
Here can I think of no plan , so if anything be to kill me , it will kill me . '
Then it knock twice at the door , and cry ` Open , ' but no one answer .
And it cry again , and a voice reply : ` Who be you that be cry `` Open '' ? '
And the gazelle say , ` It be I , great mistress , your grandchild . '
` If you be my grandchild , ' return the voice , ` go back whence you come .
Do n't come and die here , and bring me to my death as well . '
` Open , mistress , I entreat , I have something to say to you . '
` Grandchild , ' reply she , ' I fear to put your life in danger , and my own too . '
` Oh , mistress , my life will not be lose , nor yours either ; open , I pray you . '
So she open the door .
` What be the news where you come from , my grandson , ' ask she .
` Great lady , where I come from it be well , and with you it be well . '
` Ah , my son , here it be not well at all .
If you seek a way to die , or if you have not yet see death , then be to-day the day for you to know what die be . '
` If I be to know it , I shall know it , ' reply the gazelle ; ` but tell me , who be the lord of this house ? '
And she say : ` Ah , father !
in this house be much wealth , and much people , and much food , and many horse .
And the lord of it all be an exceed great and wonderful snake . '
` Oh ! '
cry the gazelle when he hear this ; ` tell me how I can get at the snake to kill him ? '
` My son , ' return the old woman , ` do not say word like these ; you risk both our life .
He have put me here all by myself , and I have to cook his food .
When the great snake be come there spring up a wind , and blow the dust about , and this go on till the great snake glide into the courtyard and call for his dinner , which must always be ready for him in those big pot .
He eat till he have have enough , and then drink a whole tankful of water .
After that he go away .
Every second day he come , when the sun be over the house .
And he have seven head .
How then can you be a match for him , my son ? '
` Mind your own business , mother , ' answer the gazelle , ` and do n't mind other people 's !
Has this snake a sword ? '
` He have a sword , and a sharp one too .
It cut like a dash of lightning . '
` Give it to me , mother ! '
say the gazelle , and she unhook the sword from the wall , a she be bidden .
` You must be quick , ' she say , ` for he may be here at any moment .
Hark !
be not that the wind rising ?
He have come ! '
They be silent , but the old woman peep from behind a curtain , and saw the snake busy at the pot which she have place ready for him in the courtyard .
And after he have do eating and drinking he come to the door : ` You old body ! '
he cry ; ` what smell be that I smell inside that be not the smell of every day ? '
` Oh , master ! '
answer she , ' I be alone , a I always be !
But to-day , after many day , I have sprinkle fresh scent all over me , and it be that which you smell .
What else could it be , master ? '
All this time the gazelle have be stand close to the door , hold the sword in one of it front paw .
And a the snake put one of his head through the hole that he have make so a to get in and out comfortably , it cut it of so clean that the snake really do not feel it .
The second blow be not quite so straight , for the snake say to himself , ` Who be that who be try to scratch me ? '
and stretch out his third head to see ; but no sooner be the neck through the hole than the head go roll to join the rest .
When six of his head be go the snake lash his tail with such fury that the gazelle and the old woman could not see each other for the dust he make .
And the gazelle say to him , ` You have climb all sort of tree , but this you ca n't climb , ' and a the seventh head come dart through it go roll to join the rest .
Then the sword fell rattle on the ground , for the gazelle have faint .
The old woman shriek with delight when she saw her enemy be dead , and run to bring water to the gazelle , and fan it , and put it where the wind could blow on it , till it grow well and give a sneeze .
And the heart of the old woman be glad , and she give it more water , till by-and-by the gazelle get up .
` Show me this house , ' it say , ` from begin to end , from top to bottom , from inside to out . '
So she arise and show the gazelle room full of gold and precious thing , and other room full of slave .
` They be all yours , good and slave , ' say she .
But the gazelle answer , ` You must keep them safe till I call my master . '
For two day it lay and rest in the house , and feed on milk and rice , and on the third day it bid the old woman farewell and start back to it master .
And when he hear that the gazelle be at the door he felt like a man who have find the time when all prayer be grant , and he rise and kiss it , say : ` My father , you have be a long time ; you have leave sorrow with me .
I can not eat , I can not drink , I can not laugh ; my heart felt no smile at anything , because of thinking of you . '
And the gazelle answer : ' I be well , and where I come from it be well , and I wish that after four day you would take your wife and go home . '
And he say : ` It be for you to speak .
Where you go , I will follow . '
` Then I shall go to your father-in-law and tell him this news . '
` Go , my son . '
So the gazelle go to the father-in-law and say : ' I be send by my master to come and tell you that after four day he will go away with his wife to his own home . '
` Must he really go so quickly ?
We have not yet sit much together , I and Sultan Darai , nor have we yet talk much together , nor have we yet ride out together , nor have we eat together ; yet it be fourteen day since he come . '
But the gazelle reply : ` My lord , you can not help it , for he wish to go home , and nothing will stop him . '
` Very good , ' say the sultan , and he call all the people who be in the town , and command that the day his daughter leave the palace lady and guard be to attend her on her way .
And at the end of four day a great company of lady and slave and horse go forth to escort the wife of Sultan Darai to her new home .
They ride all day , and when the sun sink behind the hill they rest , and ate of the food the gazelle give them , and lay down to sleep .
And they journey on for many day , and they all , noble and slave , love the gazelle with a great love -- more than they love the Sultan Darai .
At last one day sign of house appear , far , far off .
And those who saw cry out , ` Gazelle ! '
And it answer , ` Ah , my mistress , that be the house of Sultan Darai . '
At this news the woman rejoice much , and the slave rejoice much , and in the space of two hour they come to the gate , and the gazelle bid them all stay behind , and it go on to the house with Sultan Darai .
When the old woman saw them come through the courtyard she jump and shout for joy , and a the gazelle draw near she seize it in her arm , and kiss it .
The gazelle do not like this , and say to her : ` Old woman , leave me alone ; the one to be carry be my master , and the one to be kiss be my master . '
And she answer , ` Forgive me , my son .
I do not know this be our master , ' and she throw open all the door so that the master might see everything that the room and storehouse contain .
Sultan Darai look about him , and at length he say : ` Unfasten those horse that be tie up , and let loose those people that be bind .
And let some sweep , and some spread the bed , and some cook , and some draw water , and some come out and receive the mistress . '
And when the sultana and her lady and her slave enter the house , and saw the rich stuff it be hang with , and the beautiful rice that be prepare for them to eat , they cry : ` Ah , you gazelle , we have see great house , we have see people , we have hear of thing .
But this house , and you , such a you be , we have never see or hear of . '
After a few day , the lady say they wish to go home again .
The gazelle beg them hard to stay , but find they would not , it bring many gift , and give some to the lady and some to their slave .
And they all think the gazelle great a thousand time than it master , Sultan Darai .
The gazelle and it master remain in the house many week , and one day it say to the old woman , ' I come with my master to this place , and I have do many thing for my master , good thing , and till to-day he have never ask me : `` Well , my gazelle , how do you get this house ?
Who be the owner of it ?
And this town , be there no people in it ? ''
All good thing I have do for the master , and he have not one day do me any good thing .
But people say , `` If you want to do any one good , do n't do him good only , do him evil also , and there will be peace between you . ''
So , mother , I have do : I want to see the favour I have do to my master , that he may do me the like . '
` Good , ' reply the old woman , and they go to bed .
In the morning , when light come , the gazelle be sick in it stomach and feverish , and it leg ache .
And it say ` Mother ! '
And she answer , ` Here , my son ? '
And it say , ` Go and tell my master upstairs the gazelle be very ill . '
` Very good , my son ; and if he should ask me what be the matter , what be I to say ? '
` Tell him all my body ache badly ; I have no single part without pain . '
The old woman go upstairs , and she find the mistress and master sit on a couch of marble spread with soft cushion , and they ask her , ` Well , old woman , what do you want ? '
` To tell the master the gazelle be ill , ' say she .
` What be the matter ? '
ask the wife .
` All it body pain ; there be no part without pain . '
` Well , what can I do ?
Make some gruel of red millet , and give to it . '
But his wife star and say : ` Oh , master , do you tell her to make the gazelle gruel out of red millet , which a horse would not eat ?
Eh , master , that be not well . '
But he answer , ` Oh , you be mad !
Rice be only kept for people . '
` Eh , master , this be not like a gazelle .
It be the apple of your eye .
If sand get into that , it would trouble you . '
` My wife , your tongue be long , ' and he leave the room .
The old woman saw she have speak vainly , and go back weep to the gazelle .
And when the gazelle saw her it say , ` Mother , what be it , and why do you cry ?
If it be good , give me the answer ; and if it be bad , give me the answer . '
But still the old woman would not speak , and the gazelle pray her to let it know the word of the master .
At last she say : ' I go upstairs and find the mistress and the master sit on a couch , and he ask me what I want , and I tell him that you , his slave , be ill .
And his wife ask what be the matter , and I tell her that there be not a part of your body without pain .
And the master tell me to take some red millet and make you gruel , but the mistress say , ` Eh , master , the gazelle be the apple of your eye ; you have no child , this gazelle be like your child ; so this gazelle be not one to be do evil to .
This be a gazelle in form , but not a gazelle in heart ; he be in all thing good than a gentleman , be he who he may . '
And he answer her , ` Silly chatterer , your word be many .
I know it price ; I buy it for an eighth .
What loss will it be to me ? '
The gazelle keep silence for a few moment .
Then it say , ` The elder say , `` One that do good like a mother , '' and I have do him good , and I have get this that the elder say .
But go up again to the master , and tell him the gazelle be very ill , and it have not drink the gruel of red millet . '
So the old woman return , and find the master and the mistress drinking coffee .
And when he hear what the gazelle have say , he cry : ` Hold your peace , old woman , and stay your foot and close your eye , and stop your ear with wax ; and if the gazelle bid you come to me , say your leg be bent , and you can not walk ; and if it beg you to listen , say your ear be stop with wax ; and if it wish to talk , reply that your tongue have get a hook in it . '
The heart of the old woman weep a she hear such word , because she saw that when the gazelle first come to that town it be ready to sell it life to buy wealth for it master .
Then it happen to get both life and wealth , but now it have no honour with it master .
And tear spring likewise to the eye of the sultan 's wife , and she say , ' I be sorry for you , my husband , that you should deal so wickedly with that gazelle ' ; but he only answer , ` Old woman , pay no heed to the talk of the mistress : tell it to perish out of the way .
I can not sleep , I can not eat , I can not drink , for the worry of that gazelle .
Shall a creature that I buy for an eighth trouble me from morning till night ?
Not so , old woman ! '
The old woman go downstairs , and there lay the gazelle , blood flow from it nostril .
And she take it in her arm and say , ` My son , the good you do be lose ; there remain only patience . '
And it say , ` Mother , I shall die , for my soul be full of anger and bitterness .
My face be ashamed , that I should have do good to my master , and that he should repay me with evil . '
It pause for a moment , and then go on , ` Mother , of the good that be in this house , what do I eat ?
I might have every day half a basinful , and would my master be any the poorer ?
But do not the elder say , `` He that do good like a mother ! '' '
And it say , ` Go and tell my master that the gazelle be near death than life . '
So she go , and speak a the gazelle have bid her ; but he answer , ' I have tell you to trouble me no more . '
But his wife 's heart be sore , and she say to him : ` Ah , master , what have the gazelle do to you ?
How have he fail you ?
The thing you do to him be not good , and you will draw on yourself the hatred of the people .
For this gazelle be love by all , by small and great , by woman and men .
Ah , my husband !
I think you have great wisdom , and you have not even a little ! '
But he answer , ` You be mad , my wife . '
The old woman stay no longer , and go back to the gazelle , follow secretly by the mistress , who call a maidservant and bid her take some milk and rice and cook it for the gazelle .
` Take also this cloth , ' she say , ` to cover it with , and this pillow for it head .
And if the gazelle want more , let it ask me , and not it master .
And if it will , I will send it in a litter to my father , and he will nurse it till it be well . '
And the maidservant do a her mistress bid her , and say what her mistress have tell her to say , but the gazelle make no answer , but turn over on it side and die quietly .
When the news spread abroad , there be much weeping among the people , and Sultan Darai arise in wrath , and cry , ` You weep for that gazelle a if you weep for me !
And , after all , what be it but a gazelle , that I buy for an eighth ? '
But his wife answer , ` Master , we look upon that gazelle a we look upon you .
It be the gazelle who come to ask me of my father , it be the gazelle who bring me from my father , and I be give in charge to the gazelle by my father . '
And when the people hear her they lift up their voice and speak : ` We never saw you , we saw the gazelle .
It be the gazelle who meet with trouble here , it be the gazelle who meet with rest here .
So , then , when such an one departs from this world we weep for ourselves , we do not weep for the gazelle . '
And they say furthermore : ` The gazelle do you much good , and if anyone say he could have do more for you he be a liar !
Therefore , to u who have do you no good , what treatment will you give ?
The gazelle have die from bitterness of soul , and you order your slave to throw it into the well .
Ah !
leave u alone that we may weep . '
But Sultan Darai would not heed their word , and the dead gazelle be throw into the well .
When the mistress heard of it , she send three slave , mount on donkey , with a letter to her father the sultan , and when the sultan have read the letter he bow his head and wept , like a man who have lose his mother .
And he command horse to be saddle , and call the governor and the judge and all the rich men , and say : ` Come now with me ; let u go and bury it . '
Night and day they travel , till the sultan come to the well where the gazelle have be throw .
And it be a large well , build round a rock , with room for many people ; and the sultan enter , and the judge and the rich men follow him .
And when he saw the gazelle lie there he weep afresh , and take it in his arm and carry it away .
When the three slave go and tell their mistress what the sultan have do , and how all the people be weep , she answer : ' I too have eat no food , neither have I drink water , since the day the gazelle die .
I have not speak , and I have not laugh . '
The sultan take the gazelle and bury it , and order the people to wear mourn for it , so there be great mourn throughout the city .
Now after the day of mourn be at an end , the wife be sleep at her husband 's side , and in her sleep she dream that she be once more in her father 's house , and when she wake up it be no dream .
And the man dream that he be on the dust-heap , scratch .
And when he wake , behold !
that also be no dream , but the truth .
-LRB- Swahili Tales . -RRB-
HOW A FISH SWAM IN THE AIR AND A HARE IN THE WATER .
Once upon a time an old man and his wife live together in a little village .
They might have be happy if only the old woman have have the sense to hold her tongue at proper time .
But anything which might happen indoors , or any bit of news which her husband might bring in when he have be anywhere , have to be tell at once to the whole village , and these tale be repeat and alter till it often happen that much mischief be make , and the old man 's back paid for it .
One day , he drive to the forest .
When he reach the edge of it he get out of his cart and walk beside it .
Suddenly he step on such a soft spot that his foot sank in the earth .
` What can this be ? '
thought he .
` I 'll dig a bit and see . '
So he dig and dig , and at last he come on a little pot full of gold and silver .
` Oh , what luck !
Now , if only I know how I could take this treasure home with me -- but I can never hope to hide it from my wife , and once she know of it she 'll tell all the world , and then I shall get into trouble . '
He sit down and think over the matter a long time , and at last he make a plan .
He cover up the pot again with earth and twig , and drive on into the town , where he buy a live pike and a live hare in the market .
Then he drive back to the forest and hang the pike up at the very top of a tree , and tie up the hare in a fishing net and fasten it on the edge of a little stream , not trouble himself to think how unpleasant such a wet spot be likely to be to the hare .
Then he get into his cart and trot merrily home .
` Wife ! '
cry he , the moment he get indoors .
` You ca n't think what a piece of good luck have come our way . '
` What , what , dear husband ?
Do tell me all about it at once . '
` No , no , you 'll just go off and tell everyone . '
` No , indeed !
How can you think such thing !
For shame !
If you like I will swear never to -- ' ` Oh , well !
if you be really in earnest then , listen . '
And he whisper in her ear : ` I 've find a pot full of gold and silver in the forest !
Hush !
-- ' ` And why do n't you bring it back ? '
` Because we 'll drive there together and bring it carefully back between u . '
So the man and his wife drive to the forest .
As they be drive along the man say : ` What strange thing one hears , wife !
I be tell only the other day that fish will now live and thrive in the tree top and that some wild animal spend their time in the water .
Well !
well !
time be certainly change . '
` Why , you must be crazy , husband !
Dear , dear , what nonsense people do talk sometimes . '
` Nonsense , indeed !
Why , just look .
Bless my soul , if there be n't a fish , a real pike I do believe , up in that tree . '
` Gracious ! '
cry his wife .
` How do a pike get there ?
It IS a pike -- you need n't attempt to say it 's not .
Can people have say true -- ' But the man only shake his head and shrug his shoulder and open his mouth and gap a if he really could not believe his own eye .
` What be you stand star at there , stupid ? '
say his wife .
` Climb up the tree quick and catch the pike , and we 'll cook it for dinner . '
The man climb up the tree and bring down the pike , and they drive on .
When they get near the stream he draw up .
` What be you star at again ? '
ask his wife impatiently .
` Drive on , ca n't you ? '
` Why , I seem to see something move in that net I set .
I must just go and see what it be . '
He run to it , and when he have look in it he call to his wife : ` Just look !
Here be actually a four-footed creature catch in the net .
I do believe it 's a hare . '
` Good heaven ! '
cry his wife .
` How do the hare get into your net ?
It IS a hare , so you need n't say it be n't .
After all , people must have say the truth -- ' But her husband only shake his head and shrug his shoulder a if he could not believe his own eye .
` Now what be you stand there for , stupid ? '
cry his wife .
` Take up the hare .
A nice fat hare be a dinner for a feast day . '
The old man catch up the hare , and they drive on to the place where the treasure be bury .
They sweep the twig away , dig up the earth , take out the pot , and drive home again with it .
And now the old couple have plenty of money and be cheery and comfortable .
But the wife be very foolish .
Every day she ask a lot of people to dinner and feast them , till her husband grow quite impatient .
He try to reason with her , but she would not listen .
` You 've get no right to lecture me ! '
say she .
` We find the treasure together , and together we will spend it . '
Her husband take patience , but at length he say to her : ` You may do a you please , but I sha 'n ' t give you another penny . '
The old woman be very angry .
` Oh , what a good-for-nothing fellow to want to spend all the money himself !
But just wait a bit and see what I shall do . '
Off she go to the governor to complain of her husband .
` Oh , my lord , protect me from my husband !
Ever since he find the treasure there be no bear him .
He only eat and drink , and wo n't work , and he keep all the money to himself . '
The governor take pity on the woman , and order his chief secretary to look into the matter .
The secretary call the elder of the village together , and go with them to the man 's house .
` The governor , ' say he , ` desire you to give all that treasure you find into my care . '
The man shrug his shoulder and say : ` What treasure ?
I know nothing about a treasure . '
` How ?
You know nothing ?
Why your wife have complain of you .
Do n't attempt to tell lie .
If you do n't hand over all the money at once you will be try for dare to raise treasure without give due notice to the governor about it . '
` Pardon me , your excellency , but what sort of treasure be it suppose to have be ?
My wife must have dreamt of it , and you gentleman have listen to her nonsense . '
` Nonsense , indeed , ' break in his wife . '
A kettle full of gold and silver , do you call that nonsense ? '
` You be not in your right mind , dear wife .
Sir , I beg your pardon .
Ask her how it all happen , and if she convince you I 'll pay for it with my life . '
` This be how it all happen , Mr. Secretary , ' cry the wife .
` We be drive through the forest , and we saw a pike up in the top of a tree -- ' ` What , a PIKE ? '
shout the secretary .
` Do you think you may joke with me , pray ? '
` Indeed , I 'm not joke , Mr. Secretary !
I 'm speak the bare truth . '
` Now you see , gentleman , ' say her husband , ` how far you can trust her , when she chatter like this . '
` Chatter , indeed ?
I ! !
Perhaps you have forget , too , how we find a live hare in the river ? '
Everyone roar with laughter ; even the secretary smile and stroke his beard , and the man say : ` Come , come , wife , everyone be laugh at you .
You see for yourself , gentleman , how far you can believe her . '
` Yes , indeed , ' say the village elder , ` it be certainly the first time we have hear that hare thrive in the water or fish among the tree top . '
The secretary could make nothing of it all , and drive back to the town .
The old woman be so laugh at that she have to hold her tongue and obey her husband ever after , and the man buy ware with part of the treasure and move into the town , where he open a shop , and prosper , and spend the rest of his day in peace .
TWO IN A SACK What a life that poor man lead with his wife , to be sure !
Not a day pass without her scold him and call him names , and indeed sometimes she would take the broom from behind the stove and beat him with it .
He have no peace or comfort at all , and really hardly know how to bear it .
One day , when his wife have be particularly unkind and have beat him black and blue , he stroll slowly into the field , and a he could not endure to be idle he spread out his net .
What kind of bird do you think he caught in his net ?
He catch a crane , and the crane say , ` Let me go free , and I 'll show myself grateful . '
The man answer , ` No , my dear fellow .
I shall take you home , and then perhaps my wife wo n't scold me so much . '
Said the crane : ` You have well come with me to my house , ' and so they go to the crane 's house .
When they get there , what do you think the crane take from the wall ?
He take down a sack , and he say : ` Two out of a sack ! '
Instantly two pretty lad spring out of the sack .
They bring in oak table , which they spread with silken cover , and place all sort of delicious dish and refresh drink on them .
The man have never see anything so beautiful in his life , and he be delight .
Then the crane say to him , ` Now take this sack to your wife . '
The man thank him warmly , take the sack , and set out .
His home be a good long way off , and a it be grow dark , and he be feel tired , he stop to rest at his cousin 's house by the way .
The cousin have three daughter , who lay out a tempting supper , but the man would eat nothing , and say to his cousin , ` Your supper be bad . '
` Oh , make the best of it , ' say she , but the man only say : ` Clear away ! '
and take out his sack he cry , a the crane have teach him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And out come the two pretty boy , who quickly bring in the oak table , spread the silken cover , and lay out all sort of delicious dish and refresh drink .
Never in their life have the cousin and her daughter see such a supper , and they be delight and astonish at it .
But the cousin quietly make up her mind to steal the sack , so she call to her daughter : ` Go quickly and heat the bathroom : I be sure our dear guest would like to have a bath before he go to bed . '
When the man be safe in the bathroom she tell her daughter to make a sack exactly like his , as quickly a possible .
Then she change the two sack , and hide the man 's sack away .
The man enjoy his bath , sleep soundly , and set off early next morning , take what he believe to be the sack the crane have give him .
All the way home he felt in such good spirit that he sing and whistle a he walk through the wood , and never notice how the bird be twitter and laugh at him .
As soon a he saw his house he begin to shout from a distance , ` Hallo !
old woman !
Come out and meet me ! '
His wife scream back : ` You come here , and I 'll give you a good thrashing with the poker ! '
The man walk into the house , hang his sack on a nail , and say , a the crane have teach him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
But not a soul come out of the sack .
Then he say again , exactly a the crane have teach him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
His wife , hear him chatter goodness know what , take up her wet broom and sweep the ground all about him .
The man take flight and rush oft into the field , and there he find the crane march proudly about , and to him he tell his tale .
` Come back to my house , ' say the crane , and so they go to the crane 's house , and as soon a they get there , what do the crane take down from the wall ?
Why , he take down a sack , and he say : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And instantly two pretty lad spring out of the sack , bring in oak table , on which they lay silken cover , and spread all sort of delicious dish and refresh drink on them .
` Take this sack , ' say the crane .
The man thank him heartily , take the sack , and go .
He have a long way to walk , and a he presently get hungry , he say to the sack , a the crane have teach him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And instantly two rough men with thick stick creep out of the bag and begin to beat him well , cry a they do so : ` Do n't boast to your cousin of what you have get , One -- two -- Or you 'll find you will catch it uncommonly hot , One -- two -- ' And they beat on till the man pant out : ` Two into the sack . '
The word be hardly out of his mouth , when the two crept back into the sack .
Then the man shoulder the sack , and go off straight to his cousin 's house .
He hang the sack up on a nail , and say : ` Please have the bathroom heat , cousin . '
The cousin heat the bathroom , and the man go into it , but he neither wash nor rub himself , he just sit there and wait .
Meantime his cousin felt hungry , so she call her daughter , and all four sit down to table .
Then the mother say : ` Two out of the sack . '
Instantly two rough men creep out of the sack , and begin to beat the cousin a they cry : ` Greedy pack !
Thievish pack !
One -- two -- Give the peasant back his sack !
One -- two -- ' And they go on beating till the woman call to her eldest daughter : ` Go and fetch your cousin from the bathroom .
Tell him these two ruffian be beat me black and blue . '
` I 've not finish rub myself yet , ' say the peasant .
And the two ruffian keep on beat a they sing : ` Greedy pack !
Thievish pack !
One -- two -- Give the peasant back his sack !
One -- two -- ' Then the woman send her second daughter and say : ` Quick , quick , get him to come to me . '
` I 'm just wash my head , ' say the man .
Then she send the young girl , and he say : ` I 've not do dry myself . '
At last the woman could hold out no longer , and send him the sack she have steal .
NOW he have quite finish his bath , and a he leave the bathroom he cry : ` Two into the sack . '
And the two creep back at once into the sack .
Then the man take both sack , the good and the bad one , and go away home .
When he be near the house he shout : ` Hallo , old woman , come and meet me ! '
His wife only scream out : ` You broomstick , come here !
Your back shall pay for this . '
The man go into the cottage , hang his sack on a nail , and say , a the crane have teach him : ` Two out of the sack . '
Instantly two pretty lad spring out of the sack , bring in oak table , lay silken cover on them , and spread them with all sort of delicious dish and refresh drink .
The woman ate and drank , and praise her husband .
` Well , now , old man , I wo n't beat you any more , ' say she .
When they have do eating , the man carry off the good sack , and put it away in his store-room , but hang the bad sack up on the nail .
Then he lounge up and down in the yard .
Meantime his wife become thirsty .
She look with longing eye at the sack , and at last she say , a her husband have do : ` Two out of the sack . '
And at once the two rogue with their big stick creep out of the sack , and begin to belabour her a they sing : ` Would you beat your husband true ?
Do n't cry so !
Now we 'll beat you black and blue !
Oh !
Oh ! '
The woman scream out : ` Old man , old man !
Come here , quick !
Here be two ruffian pommel me fit to break my bone . '
Her husband only stroll up and down and laughed , a he say : ` Yes , they 'll beat you well , old lady . '
And the two thump away and sang again : ` Blows will hurt , remember , crone , We mean you well , we mean you well ; In future leave the stick alone , For how it hurt , you now can tell , One -- two -- ' At last her husband take pity on her , and cry : ` Two into the sack . '
He have hardly say the word before they be back in the sack again .
From this time the man and his wife live so happily together that it be a pleasure to see them , and so the story have an end .
-LRB- From Russiche Marchen . -RRB-
THE ENVIOUS NEIGHBOUR Long , long ago an old couple live in a village , and , a they have no child to love and care for , they give all their affection to a little dog .
He be a pretty little creature , and instead of grow spoilt and disagreeable at not get everything he want , a even child will do sometimes , the dog be grateful to them for their kindness , and never leave their side , whether they be in the house or out of it .
One day the old man be work in his garden , with his dog , a usual , close by .
The morning be hot , and at last he put down his spade and wipe his wet forehead , notice , a he do so , that the animal be snuffle and scratch at a spot a little way off .
There be nothing very strange in this , a all dog be fond of scratching , and he go on quietly with his digging , when the dog run up to his master , bark loudly , and back again to the place where he have be scratch .
This he do several time , till the old man wonder what could be the matter , and , pick up the spade , follow where the dog lead him .
The dog be so delighted at his success that he jump round , bark loudly , till the noise bring the old woman out of the house .
Curious to know if the dog have really find anything , the husband begin to dig , and very soon the spade struck against something .
He stoop down and pull out a large box , fill quite full with shin gold piece .
The box be so heavy that the old woman have to help to carry it home , and you may guess what a supper the dog have that night !
