at last !
how long have I waited for thee ! '
When the younger brother heard these words he said to himself , ` So it was here that my brother lived , and this beautiful woman is my sister-in-law , ' but he kept silence , and let her believe he was indeed her husband .
Full of joy , the princess led him to the old king , who welcomed him as his own son , and ordered a feast to be made for him .
And the princess was beside herself with gladness , but when she would have put her arms round him and kissed him he held up his hand to stop her , saying , ` Touch me not , ' at which she marvelled greatly .
In this manner several days went by .
And one evening , as the young man leaned from the balcony , he saw a bright light shining on the mountain .
` What can that be ? '
he said to the princess .
` Oh , come away , ' she cried ; ` has not that light already proved your bane ?
Do you wish to fight a second time with that old witch ? '
He marked her words , though she knew it not , and they taught him where his brother was , and what had befallen him .
So before sunrise he stole out early , saddled his horse , and rode off to the mountain .
But the way was further than he thought , and on the road he met a little old man who asked him whither he was going .
Then the young man told him his story , and added .
` Somehow or other I must free my brother , who has fallen into the power of an old witch . ' '
I will tell you what you must do , ' said the old man .
` The witch 's power lies in her hair ; so when you see her spring on her and seize her by the hair , and then she can not harm you .
Be very careful never to let her hair go , bid her lead you to your brother , and force her to bring him back to life .
For she has an ointment that will heal all wounds , and even wake the dead .
And when your brother stands safe and well before you , then cut off her head , for she is a wicked woman . '
The young man was grateful for these words , and promised to obey them .
Then he rode on , and soon reached the castle .
He walked boldly up the steps and entered the hall , where the hideous old witch came to meet him .
She grinned horribly at him , and cried out , ` With one hair of my head I can change you into stone . '
` Can you , indeed ? '
said the young man , seizing her by the hair .
` You old wretch !
tell me what you have done with my brother , or I will cut your head off this very instant . '
Now the witch 's strength was all gone from her , and she had to obey . '
I will take you to your brother , ' she said , hoping to get the better of him by cunning , ` but leave me alone .
You hold me so tight that I can not walk . '
` You must manage somehow , ' he answered , and held her tighter than ever .
She led him into a large hall filled with stone statues , which once had been men , and , pointing out one , she said , ` There is your brother . '
The young man looked at them all and shook his head .
` My brother is not here .
Take me to him , or it will be the worse for you . '
But she tried to put him off with other statues , though it was no good , and it was not until they had reached the last hall of all that he saw his brother lying on the ground .
` That is my brother , ' said he .
` Now give me the ointment that will restore him to life . '
Very unwillingly the old witch opened a cupboard close by filled with bottles and jars , and took down one and held it out to the young man .
But he was on the watch for trickery , and examined it carefully , and saw that it had no power to heal .
This happened many times , till at length she found it was no use , and gave him the one he wanted .
And when he had it safe he made her stoop down and smear it over his brother 's face , taking care all the while never to loose her hair , and when the dead man opened his eyes the youth drew his sword and cut off her head with a single blow .
Then the elder brother got up and stretched himself , and said , ` Oh , how long I have slept !
And where am I ? '
` The old witch had enchanted you , but now she is dead and you are free .
We will wake up the other knights that she laid under her spells , and then we will go . '
This they did , and , after sharing amongst them the jewels and gold they found in the castle , each man went his way .
The two brothers remained together , the elder tightly grasping the ointment which had brought him back to life .
They had much to tell each other as they rode along , and at last the younger man exclaimed , ' O fool , to leave such a beautiful wife to go and fight a witch !
She took me for her husband , and I did not say her nay . '
When the elder brother heard this a great rage filled his heart , and , without saying one word , he drew his sword and slew his brother , and his body rolled in the dust .
Then he rode on till he reached his home , where his wife was still sitting , weeping bitterly .
When she saw him she sprang up with a cry , and threw herself into his arms .
` Oh , how long have I waited for thee !
Never , never must you leave me any more ! '
When the old king heard the news he welcomed him as a son , and made ready a feast , and all the court sat down .
And in the evening , when the young man was alone with his wife , she said to him , ` Why would you not let me touch you when you came back , but always thrust me away when I tried to put my arms round you or kiss you ? '
Then the young man understood how true his brother had been to him , and he sat down and wept and wrung his hands because of the wicked murder that he had done .
Suddenly he sprang to his feet , for he remembered the ointment which lay hidden in his garments , and he rushed to the place where his brother still lay .
He fell on his knees beside the body , and , taking out the salve , he rubbed it over the neck where the wound was gaping wide , and the skin healed and the sinews grew strong , and the dead man sat up and looked round him .
And the two brothers embraced each other , and the elder asked forgiveness for his wicked blow ; and they went back to the palace together , and were never parted any more .
Master and Pupil From the Danish .
There was once a man who had a son who was very clever at reading , and took great delight in it .
He went out into the world to seek service somewhere , and as he was walking between some mounds he met a man , who asked him where he was going . '
I am going about seeking for service , ' said the boy .
` Will you serve me ? '
asked the man .
` Oh , yes ; just as readily you as anyone else , ' said the boy .
` But can you read ? '
asked the man .
` As well as the priest , ' said the boy .
Then I ca n't have you , ' said the man .
` In fact , I was just wanting a boy who could n't read .
His only work would be to dust my old books . '
The man then went on his way , and left the boy looking after him .
` It was a pity I did n't get that place , ' thought he ` That was just the very thing for me . '
Making up his mind to get the situation if possible , he hid himself behind one of the mounds , and turned his jacket outside in , so that the man would not know him again so easily .
Then he ran along behind the mounds , and met the man at the other end of them .
` Where are you going , my little boy ? '
said the man , who did not notice that it was the same one he had met before . '
I am going about seeking for service ? '
said the boy .
` Will you serve me ? '
asked the man .
` Oh , yes ; just as readily you as anyone else , ' said the boy .
` But can you read ? '
said the man .
` No , I do n't know a single letter , ' said the boy .
The man then took him into his service , and all the work he had to do was to dust his master 's books .
But as he did this he had plenty of time to read them as well , and he read away at them until at last he was just as wise as his master -- who was a great wizard -- and could perform all kinds of magic .
Among other feats , he could change himself into the shape of any animal , or any other thing that he pleased .
When he had learned all this he did not think it worth while staying there any longer , so he ran away home to his parents again .
Soon after this there was a market in the next village , and the boy told his mother that he had learned how to change himself into the shape of any animal he chose .
` Now , ' said he , ' I shall change myself to a horse , and father can take me to market and sell me .
I shall come home again all right . '
His mother was frightened at the idea , but the boy told her that she need not be alarmed ; all would be well .
So he changed himself to a horse , such a fine horse , too , that his father got a high price for it at the market ; but after the bargain was made , and the money paid , the boy changed again to his own shape , when no one was looking , and went home .
The story spread all over the country about the fine horse that had been sold and then had disappeared , and at last the news came to the ears of the wizard .
` Aha ! '
said he , ` this is that boy of mine , who befooled me and ran away ; but I shall have him yet . '
The next time that there was a market the boy again changed himself to a horse , and was taken thither by his father .
The horse soon found a purchaser , and while the two were inside drinking the luck-penny the wizard came along and saw the horse .
He knew at once that it was not an ordinary one , so he also went inside , and offered the purchaser far more than he had paid for it , so the latter sold it to him .
The first thing the wizard now did was to lead the horse away to a smith to get a red-hot nail driven into its mouth , because after that it could not change its shape again .
When the horse saw this it changed itself to a dove , and flew up into the air .
The wizard at once changed himself into a hawk , and flew up after it .
The dove now turned into a gold ring , and fell into a girl 's lap .
The hawk now turned into a man , and offered the girl a great sum of money for the gold ring , but she would not part with it , seeing that it had fallen down to her , as it were , from Heaven .
However , the wizard kept on offering her more and more for it , until at last the gold ring grew frightened , and changed itself into a grain of barley , which fell on the ground .
The man then turned into a hen , and began to search for the grain of barley , but this again changed itself to a pole-cat , and took off the hen 's head with a single snap .
The wizard was now dead , the pole-cat put on human shape , and the youth afterwards married the girl , and from that time forward let all his magic arts alone .
The Golden Lion Sicilianische Mahrchen .
L. Gonzenbach .
There was once a rich merchant who had three sons , and when they were grown up the eldest said to him , ` Father , I wish to travel and see the world .
I pray you let me . '
So the father ordered a beautiful ship to be fitted up , and the young man sailed away in it .
After some weeks the vessel cast anchor before a large town , and the merchant 's son went on shore .
The first thing he saw was a large notice written on a board saying that if any man could find the king 's daughter within eight days he should have her to wife , but that if he tried and failed his head must be the forfeit .
` Well , ' thought the youth as he read this proclamation , ` that ought not to be a very difficult matter ; ' and he asked an audience of the king , and told him that he wished to seek for the princess .
` Certainly , ' replied the king .
` You have the whole palace to search in ; but remember , if you fail it will cost you your head . '
So saying , he commanded the doors to be thrown open , and food and drink to be set before the young man , who , after he had eaten , began to look for the princess .
But though he visited every corner and chest and cupboard , she was not in any of them , and after eight days he gave it up and his head was cut off .
All this time his father and brothers had had no news of him , and were very anxious .
At last the second son could bear it no longer , and said , ` Dear father , give me , I pray you , a large ship and some money , and let me go and seek for my brother . '
So another ship was fitted out , and the young man sailed away , and was blown by the wind into the same harbour where his brother had landed .
Now when he saw the first ship lying at anchor his heart beat high , and he said to himself , ` My brother can not surely be far off , ' and he ordered a boat and was put on shore .
As he jumped on to the pier his eye caught the notice about the princess , and he thought , ` He has undertaken to find her , and has certainly lost his head .
I must try myself , and seek him as well as her .
It can not be such a very difficult matter . '
But he fared no better than his brother , and in eight days his head was cut off .
So now there was only the youngest at home , and when the other two never came he also begged for a ship that he might go in search of his lost brothers .
And when the vessel started a high wind arose , and blew him straight to the harbour where the notice was set .
` Oho ! '
said he , as he read , ` whoever can find the king 's daughter shall have her to wife .
It is quite clear now what has befallen my brothers .
But in spite of that I think I must try my luck , ' and he took the road to the castle .
On the way he met an old woman , who stopped and begged .
` Leave me in peace , old woman , ' replied he .
` Oh , do not send me away empty , ' she said .
` You are such a handsome young man you will surely not refuse an old woman a few pence . ' '
I tell you , old woman , leave me alone . '
` You are in some trouble ? '
she asked .
` Tell me what it is , and perhaps I can help you . '
Then he told her how he had set his heart on finding the king 's daughter . '
I can easily manage that for you as long as you have enough money . '
` Oh , as to that , I have plenty , ' answered he .
` Well , you must take it to a goldsmith and get him to make it into a golden lion , with eyes of crystal ; and inside it must have something that will enable it to play tunes .
When it is ready bring it to me . '
The young man did as he was bid , and when the lion was made the old woman hid the youth in it , and brought it to the king , who was so delighted with it that he wanted to buy it .
But she replied , ` It does not belong to me , and my master will not part from it at any price . '
` At any rate , leave it with me for a few days , ' said he ; ' I should like to show it to my daughter . '
` Yes , I can do that , ' answered the old woman ; ` but to-morrow I must have it back again .
And she went away .
The king watched her till she was quite out of sight , so as to make sure that she was not spying upon him ; then he took the golden lion into his room and lifted some loose boards from the floor .
Below the floor there was a staircase , which he went down till he reached a door at the foot .
This he unlocked , and found himself in a narrow passage closed by another door , which he also opened .
The young man , hidden in the golden lion , kept count of everything , and marked that there were in all seven doors .
After they had all been unlocked the king entered a lovely hall , where the princess was amusing herself with eleven friends .
All twelve girls wore the same clothes , and were as like each other as two peas .
` What bad luck ! '
thought the youth .
` Even supposing that I managed to find my way here again , I do n't see how I could ever tell which was the princess . '
And he stared hard at the princess as she clapped her hands with joy and ran up to them , crying , ' Oh , do let us keep that delicious beast for to-night ; it will make such a nice plaything . '
The king did not stay long , and when he left he handed over the lion to the maidens , who amused themselves with it for some time , till they got sleepy , and thought it was time to go to bed .
But the princess took the lion into her own room and laid it on the floor .
She was just beginning to doze when she heard a voice quite close to her , which made her jump . '
O lovely princess , if you only knew what I have gone through to find you ! '
The princess jumped out of bed screaming , ` The lion !
the lion ! '
but her friends thought it was a nightmare , and did not trouble themselves to get up . '
O lovely úprincess ! '
continued the voice , ` fear nothing !
I am the son of a rich merchant , and desire above all things to have you for my wife .
And in order to get to you I have hidden myself in this golden lion . '
` What use is that ? '
she asked .
` For if you can not pick me out from among my companions you will still lose your head . ' '
I look to you to help me , ' he said . '
I have done so much for you that you might do this one thing for me . '
` Then listen to me .
On the eighth day I will tie a white sash round my waist , and by that you will know me . '
The next morning the king came very early to fetch the lion , as the old woman was already at the palace asking for it .
When they were safe from view she let the young man out , and he returned to the king and told him that he wished to find the princess .
` Very good , ' said the king , who by this time was almost tired of repeating the same words ; ` but if you fail your head will be the forfeit . '
So the youth remained quietly in the castle , eating and looking at all the beautiful things around him , and every now and then pretending to be searching busily in all the closets and corners .
On the eighth day he entered the room where the king was sitting .
` Take up the floor in this place , ' he said .
The king gave a cry , but stopped himself , and asked , ` What do you want the floor up for ?
There is nothing there . '
But as all his courtiers were watching him he did not like to make any more objections , and ordered the floor to be taken up , as the young man desired .
The youth then want straight down the staircase till he reached the door ; then he turned and demanded that the key should be brought .
So the king was forced to unlock the door , and the next and the next and the next , till all seven were open , and they entered into the hall where the twelve maidens were standing all in a row , so like that none might tell them apart .
But as he looked one of them silently drew a white sash from her pocket and slipped it round her waist , and the young man sprang to her and said , ` This is the princess , and I claim her for my wife . '
And the king owned himself beaten , and commanded that the wedding feast should be held .
After eight days the bridal pair said farewell to the king , and set sail for the youth 's own country , taking with them a whole shipload of treasures as the princess 's dowry .
But they did not forget the old woman who had brought about all their happiness , and they gave her enough money to make her comfortable to the end of her days .
The Sprig of Rosemary Cuentos Populars Catalans , per lo Dr. D. Francisco de S. Maspons y Labros -LRB- Barcelona : Libreria de Don Alvar Verdaguer 1885 -RRB- .
Once upon a time there lived a man with one daughter and he made her work hard all the day .
One morning when she had finished everything he had set her to do , he told her to go out into the woods and get some dry leaves and sticks to kindle a fire .
The girl went out , and soon collected a large bundle , and then she plucked at a sprig of sweet-smelling rosemary for herself .
But the harder she pulled the firmer seemed the plant , and at last , determined not to be beaten , she gave one great tug , and the rosemary remained in her hands .
Then she heard a voice close to her saying , ` Well ? '
and turning she saw before her a handsome young man , who asked why she had come to steal his firewood .
The girl , who felt much confused , only managed to stammer out as an excuse that her father had sent her .
` Very well , ' replied the young man ; ` then come with me . '
So he took her through the opening made by the torn-up root , and they travelled till they reached a beautiful palace , splendidly furnished , but only lighted from the top .
And when they had entered he told her that he was a great lord , and that never had he seen a maiden so beautiful as she , and that if she would give him her heart they would be married and live happy for ever after .
And the maiden said ` yes , she would , ' and so they were married .
The next day the old dame who looked after the house handed her all the keys , but pointed her out one that she would do well never to use , for if she did the whole palace would fall to the ground , and the grass would grow over it , and the damsel herself would be remembered no more .
The bride promised to be careful , but in a little while , when there was nothing left for her to do , she began to wonder what could be in the chest , which was opened by the key .
As everybody knows , if we once begin to think we soon begin to do , and it was not very long before the key was no longer in the maiden 's hand but in the lock of the chest .
But the lock was stiff and resisted all her efforts , and in the end she had to break it .
And what was inside after all ?
Why , nothing but a serpent 's skin , which her husband , who was , unknown to her , a magician , put on when he was at work ; and at the sight of it the girl was turning away in disgust , when the earth shook violently under her feet , the palace vanished as if it had never been , and the bride found herself in the middle of a field , not knowing where she was or whither to go .
She burst into a flood of bitter tears , partly at her own folly , but more for the loss of her husband , whom she dearly loved .
Then , breaking a sprig of rosemary off a bush hard by , she resolved , cost what it might , to seek him through the world till she found him .
So she walked and she walked and she walked , till she arrived at a house built of straw .
And she knocked at the door , and asked if they wanted a servant .
The mistress said she did , and if the girl was willing she might stay .
But day by day the poor maiden grew more and more sad , till at last her mistress begged her to say what was the matter .
Then she told her story -- how she was going through the world seeking after her husband .
And her mistress answered her , ` Where he is , none can tell better than the Sun , the Moon , and the Wind , for they go everywhere ! '
On hearing these words the damsel set forth once more , and walked till she reached the Golden Castle , where lived the Sun .
And she knocked boldly at the door , saying , ` All hail , O Sun !
I have come to ask if , of your charity , you will help me in my need .
By my own fault have I fallen into these straits , and I am weary , for I seek my husband through the wide world . '
` Indeed ! '
spoke the Sun .
` Do you , rich as you are , need help ?
But though you live in a palace without windows , the Sun enters everywhere , and he knows you . '
Then the bride told him the whole story .
and did not hide her own ill-doing .
And the Sun listened , and was sorry for her ; and though he could not tell her where to go , he gave her a nut , and bid her open it in a time of great distress .
The damsel thanked him with all her heart , and departed , and walked and walked and walked , till she came to another castle , and knocked at the door which was opened by an old woman .
` All hail ! '
said the girl . '
I have come , of your charity , to ask your help ! '
` It is my mistress , the Moon , you seek .
I will tell her of your prayer . '
So the Moon came out , and when she saw the maiden she knew her again , for she had watched her sleeping both in the cottage and in the palace .
And she spake to her and said : ` Do you , rich as you are , need help ? '
Then the girl told her the whole story , and the Moon listened , and was sorry for her ; and though she could not tell her where to find her husband , she gave her an almond , and told her to crack it when she was in great need .
So the damsel thanked her , and departed , and walked and walked and walked till she came to another castle .
And she knocked at the door , and said : ` All hail !
I have come to ask if , of your charity , you will help me in my need . '
` It is my lord , the Wind , that you want , ' answered the old woman who opened it . '
I will tell him of your prayer . '
And the Wind looked on her and knew her again , for he had seen her in the cottage and in the palace , and he spake to her and said : ` Do you , rich as you are , want help ? '
And she told him the whole story .
And the Wind listened , and was sorry for her , and he gave her a walnut that she was to eat in time of need .
But the girl did not go as the Wind expected .
She was tired and sad , and knew not where to turn , so she began to weep bitterly .
The Wind wept too for company , and said : ` Do n't be frightened ; I will go and see if I can find out something . '
And the Wind departed with a great noise and fuss , and in the twinkling of an eye he was back again , beaming with delight .
` From what one person and another have let fall , ' he exclaimed , ' I have contrived to learn that he is in the palace of the king , who keeps him hidden lest anyone should see him ; and that to-morrow he is to marry the princess , who , ugly creature that she is , has not been able to find any man to wed her . '
Who can tell the despair which seized the poor maiden when she heard this news !
As soon as she could speak she implored the Wind to do all he could to get the wedding put off for two or three days , for it would take her all that time to reach the palace of the king .
The Wind gladly promised to do what he could , and as he travelled much faster than the maiden he soon arrived at the palace , where he found five tailors working night and day at the wedding clothes of the princess .
Down came the Wind right in the middle of their lace and satin and trimmings of pearl !
Away they all went whiz !
through the open windows , right up into the tops of the trees , across the river , among the dancing ears of corn !
After them ran the tailors , catching , jumping , climbing , but all to no purpose !
The lace was torn , the satin stained , the pearls knocked off !
There was nothing for it but to go to the shops to buy fresh , and to begin all over again !
It was plainly quite impossible that the wedding clothes could be ready next day .
However , the king was much too anxious to see his daughter married to listen to any excuses , and he declared that a dress must be put together somehow for the bride to wear .
But when he went to look at the princess , she was such a figure that he agreed that it would be unfitting for her position to be seen in such a gown , and he ordered the ceremony and the banquet to be postponed for a few hours , so that the tailors might take the dress to pieces and make it fit .
But by this time the maiden had arrived footsore and weary at the castle , and as soon as she reached the door she cracked her nut and drew out of it the most beautiful mantle in the world .
Then she rang the bell , and asked : ` Is not the princess to be married to-day ? '
` Yes , she is . '
` Ask her if she would like to buy this mantle . '
And when the princess saw the mantle she was delighted , for her wedding mantle had been spoilt with all the other things , and it was too late to make another .
So she told the maiden to ask what price she would , and it should be given her .
The maiden fixed a large sum , many pieces of gold , but the princess had set her heart on the mantle , and gave it readily .
Now the maiden hid her gold in the pocket of her dress , and turned away from the castle .
The moment she was out of sight she broke her almond , and drew from it the most magnificent petticoats that ever were seen .
Then she went back to the castle , and asked if the princess wished to buy any petticoats .
No sooner did the princess cast her eyes on the petticoats than she declared they were even more beautiful than the mantle , and that she would give the maiden whatever price she wanted for them .
And the maiden named many pieces of gold , which the princess paid her gladly , so pleased was she with her new possessions .
Then the girl went down the steps where none could watch her and cracked her walnut , and out came the most splendid court dress that any dressmaker had ever invented ; and , carrying it carefully in her arms , she knocked at the door , and asked if the princess wished to buy a court dress .
When the message was delivered the princess sprang to her feet with delight , for she had been thinking that after all it was not much use to have a lovely mantle and elegant petticoats if she had no dress , and she knew the tailors would never be ready in time .
So she sent at once to say she would buy the dress , and what sum did the maiden want for it .
This time the maiden answered that the price of the dress was the permission to see the bridegroom .
The princess was not at all pleased when she heard the maiden 's reply , but , as she could not do without the dress , she was forced to give in , and contented herself with thinking that after all it did not matter much .
So the maiden was led to the rooms which had been given to her husband .
And when she came near she touched him with the sprig of rosemary that she carried ; and his memory came back , and he knew her , and kissed her , and declared that she was his true wife , and that he loved her and no other .
Then they went back to the maiden 's home , and grew to be very old , and lived happy all the days of their life .
The White Dove From the Danish .
A king had two sons .
They were a pair of reckless fellows , who always had something foolish to do .
One day they rowed out alone on the sea in a little boat .
It was beautiful weather when they set out , but as soon as they had got some distance from the shore there arose a terrific storm .
The oars went overboard at once , and the little boat was tossed about on the rolling billows like a nut-shell .
The princes had to hold fast by the seats to keep from being thrown out of the boat .
In the midst of all this they met a wonderful vessel -- it was a dough-trough , in which there sat an old woman .
She called to them , and said that they could still get to shore alive if they would promise her the son that was next to come to their mother the queen .
` We ca n't do that , ' shouted the princes ; ` he does n't belong to us so we ca n't give him away . '
` Then you can rot at the bottom of the sea , both of you , ' said the old woman ; ` and perhaps it may be the case that your mother would rather keep the two sons she has than the one she has n't got yet . '
Then she rowed away in her dough-trough , while the storm howled still louder than before , and the water dashed over their boat until it was almost sinking .
Then the princes thought that there was something in what the old woman had said about their mother , and being , of course , eager to save their lives , they shouted to her , and promised that she should have their brother if she would deliver them from this danger .
As soon as they had done so the storm ceased and the waves fell .
The boat drove ashore below their father 's castle , and both princes were received with open arms by their father and mother , who had suffered great anxiety for them .
The two brothers said nothing about what they had promised , neither at that time nor later on when the queen 's third son came , a beautiful boy , whom she loved more than anything else in the world .
He was brought up and educated in his father 's house until he was full grown , and still his brothers had never seen or heard anything about the witch to whom they had promised him before he was born .
It happened one evening that there arose a raging storm , with mist and darkness .
It howled and roared around the king 's palace , and in the midst of it there came a loud knock on the door of the hall where the youngest prince was .
He went to the door and found there an old woman with a dough - trough on her back , who said to him that he must go with her at once ; his brothers had promised him to her if she would save their lives .
` Yes , ' said he ; ` if you saved my brothers ' lives , and they promised me to you , then I will go with you . '
They therefore went down to the beach together , where he had to take his seat in the trough , along with the witch , who sailed away with him , over the sea , home to her dwelling .
The prince was now in the witch 's power , and in her service .
The first thing she set him to was to pick feathers .
` The heap of feathers that you see here , ' said she , ` you must get finished before I come home in the evening , otherwise you shall be set to harder work . '
He started to the feathers , and picked and picked until there was only a single feather left that had not passed through his hands .
But then there came a whirlwind and sent all the feathers flying , and swept them along the floor into a heap , where they lay as if they were trampled together .
He had now to begin all his work over again , but by this time it only wanted an hour of evening , when the witch was to be expected home , and he easily saw that it was impossible for him to be finished by that time .
Then he heard something tapping at the window pane , and a thin voice said , ` Let me in , and I will help you . '
It was a white dove , which sat outside the window , and was pecking at it with its beak .
He opened the window , and the dove came in and set to work at once , and picked all the feathers out of the heap with its beak .
Before the hour was past the feathers were all nicely arranged : the dove flew out at the window , and at , the same moment the witch came in at the door .
` Well , well , ' said she , ` it was more than I would have expected of you to get all the feathers put in order so nicely .
However , such a prince might be expected to have neat fingers . '
Next morning the witch said to the prince , ` To-day you shall have some easy work to do .
Outside the door I have some firewood lying ; you must split that for me into little bits that I can kindle the fire with .
That will soon be done , but you must be finished before I come home . '
The prince got a little axe and set to work at once .
He split and clove away , and thought that he was getting on fast ; but the day wore on until it was long past midday , and he was still very far from having finished .
He thought , in fact , that the pile of wood rather grew bigger than smaller , in spite of what he took off it ; so he let his hands fall by his side , and dried the sweat from his forehead , and was ill at ease , for he knew that it would be bad for him if he was not finished with the work before the witch came home .
Then the white dove came flying and settled down on the pile of wood , and cooed and said , ` Shall I help you ? '
` Yes , ' said the prince , ` many thanks for your help yesterday , and for what you offer to-day . '
Thereupon the little dove seized one piece of wood after another and split it with its beak .
The prince could not take away the wood as quickly as the dove could split it , and in a short time it was all cleft into little sticks .
The dove then flew up on his shoulder and sat there and the prince thanked it , and stroked and caressed its white feathers , and kissed its little red beak .
With that it was a dove no longer , but a beautiful young maiden , who stood by his side .
She told him then that she was a princess whom the witch had stolen , and had changed to this shape , but with his kiss she had got her human form again ; and if he would be faithful to her , and take her to wife , she could free them both from the witch 's power .
The prince was quite captivated by the beautiful princess , and was quite willing to do anything whatsoever to get her for himself .
She then said to him , ` When the witch comes home you must ask her to grant you a wish , when you have accomplished so well all that she has demanded of you .
When she agrees to this you must ask her straight out for the princess that she has flying about as a white dove .
But just now you must take a red silk thread and tie it round my little finger , so that you may be able to recognise me again , into whatever shape she turns me . '
The prince made haste to get the silk thread tied round her little white finger ; at the same moment the princess became a dove again and flew away , and immediately after that the old witch came home with her dough-trough on he back .
` Well , ' said she , ' I must say that you are clever at your work , and it is something , too , that such princely hands are not accustomed to . '
` Since you are so well pleased with my work , said the prince , ` you will , no doubt , be willing to give me a little pleasure too , and give me something that I have taken a fancy to . '
` Oh yes , indeed , ' said the old woman ; ` what is it that you want ? ' '
I want the princess here who is in the shape of a white dove , ' said the prince .
` What nonsense ! '
said the witch .
` Why should you imagine that there are princesses here flying about in the shape of white doves ?
But if you will have a princess , you can get one such as we have them . '
She then came to him , dragging a shaggy little grey ass with long ears .
` Will you have this ? '
said she ; ` you ca n't get any other princess ! '
The prince used his eyes and saw the red silk thread on one of the ass 's hoofs , so he said , ` Yes , just let me have it . '
` What will you do with it ? '
asked the witch . '
I will ride on it , ' said the prince ; but with that the witch dragged it away again , and came back with an old , wrinkled , toothless hag , whose hands trembled with age .
` You can have no other princess , ' said she .
` Will you have her ? '
` Yes , I will , ' said the prince , for he saw the red silk thread on the old woman 's finger .
At this the witch became so furious that she danced about and knocked everything to pieces that she could lay her hands upon , so that the splinters flew about the ears of the prince and princess , who now stood there in her own beautiful shape .
Then their marriage had to be celebrated , for the witch had to stick to what she had promised , and he must get the princess whatever might happen afterwards .
The princess now said to him , ` At the marriage feast you may eat what you please , but you must not drink anything whatever , for if you do that you will forget me . '
This , however , the prince forgot on the wedding day , and stretched out his hand and took a cup of wine ; but the princess was keeping watch over him , and gave him a push with her elbow , so that the wine flew over the table - cloth .
Then the witch got up and laid about her among the plates and dishes , so that the pieces flew about their ears , just as she had done when she was cheated the first time .
They were then taken to the bridal chamber , and the door was shut .
Then the princess said , ` Now the witch has kept her promise , but she will do no more if she can help it , so we must fly immediately .
I shall lay two pieces of wood in the bed to answer for us when the witch speaks to us .
You can take the flower-pot and the glass of water that stands in the window , and we must slip out by that and get away . '
No sooner said than done .
They hurried off out into the dark night , the princess leading , because she knew the way , having spied it out while she flew about as a dove .
At midnight the witch came to the door of the room and called in to them , and the two pieces of wood answered her , so that she believed they were there , and went away again .
Before daybreak she was at the door again and called to them , and again the pieces of wood answered for them .
She thus thought that she had them , and when the sun rose the bridal night was past : she had then kept her promise , and could vent her anger and revenge on both of them .
With the first sunbeam she broke into the room , but there she found no prince and no princess -- nothing but the two pieces of firewood , which lay in the bed , and stared , and spoke not a word .
These she threw on the floor , so that they were splintered into a thousand pieces , and off she hastened after the fugitives .
With the first sunbeam the princess said to the prince , ` Look round ; do you see anything behind us ? '
` Yes , I see a dark cloud , far away , ' said he .
` Then throw the flower-pot over your head , ' said she .
When this was done there was a large thick forest behind them .
When the witch came to the forest she could not get through it until she went home and brought her axe to cut a path .
A little after this the princess said again to the prince , ` Look round ; do you see anything behind us ? '
` Yes , ' said the prince , ` the big black cloud is there again . '
` Then throw the glass of water over your head , ' said she .
When he had done this there was a great lake behind them , and this the witch could not cross until she ran home again and brought her dough-trough .
Meanwhile the fugitives had reached the castle which was the prince 's home .
They climbed over the garden wall , ran across the garden , and crept in at an open window .
By this time the witch was just at their heels , but the princess stood in the window and blew upon the witch ; hundreds of white doves flew out of her mouth , fluttered and flapped around the witch 's head until she grew so angry that she turned into flint , and there she stands to this day , in the shape of a large flint stone , outside the window .
Within the castle there was great rejoicing over the prince and his bride .
His two elder brothers came and knelt before him and confessed what they had done , and said that he alone should inherit the kingdom , and they would always be his faithful subjects .
The Troll 's Daughter From the Danish .
There was once a lad who went to look for a place .
As he went along he met a man , who asked him where he was going .
He told him his errand , and the stranger said , ` Then you can serve me ; I am just in want of a lad like you , and I will give you good wages -- a bushel of money the first year , two the second year , and three the third year , for you must serve me three years , and obey me in everything , however strange it seems to you .
You need not be afraid of taking service with me , for there is no danger in it if you only know how to obey . '
The bargain was made , and the lad went home with the man to whom he had engaged himself .
It was a strange place indeed , for he lived in a bank in the middle of the wild forest , and the lad saw there no other person than his master .
The latter was a great troll , and had marvellous power over both men and beasts .
Next day the lad had to begin his service .
The first thing that the troll set him to was to feed all the wild animals from the forest .
These the troll had tied up , and there were both wolves and bears , deer and hares , which the troll had gathered in the stalls and folds in his stable down beneath the ground , and that stable was a mile long .
The boy , however , accomplished all this work on that day , and the troll praised him and said that it was very well done .
Next morning the troll said to him , ` To-day the animals are not to be fed ; they do n't get the like of that every day .
You shall have leave to play about for a little , until they are to be fed again . '
Then the troll said some words to him which he did not understand , and with that the lad turned into a hare , and ran out into the wood .
He got plenty to run for , too , for all the hunters aimed at him , and tried to shoot him , and the dogs barked and ran after him wherever they got wind of him .
He was the only animal that was left in the wood now , for the troll had tied up all the others , and every hunter in the whole country was eager to knock him over .
But in this they met with no success ; there was no dog that could overtake him , and no marksman that could hit him .
They shot and shot at him , and he ran and ran .
It was an unquiet life , but in the long run he got used to it , when he saw that there was no danger in it , and it even amused him to befool all the hunters and dogs that were so eager after him .
Thus a whole year passed , and when it was over the troll called him home , for he was now in his power like all the other animals .
The troll then said some words to him which he did not understand , and the hare immediately became a human being again .
` Well , how do you like to serve me ? '
said the troll , ` and how do you like being a hare ? '
The lad replied that he liked it very well ; he had never been able to go over the ground so quickly before .
The troll then showed him the bushel of money that he had already earned , and the lad was well pleased to serve him for another year .
The first day of the second year the boy had the same work to do as on the previous one -- namely , to feed all the wild animals in the troll 's stable .
When he had done this the troll again said some words to him , and with that he became a raven , and flew high up into the air .
This was delightful , the lad thought ; he could go even faster now than when he was a hare , and the dogs could not come after him here .
This was a great delight to him , but he soon found out that he was not to be left quite at peace , for all the marksmen and hunters who saw him aimed at him and fired away , for they had no other birds to shoot at than himself , as the troll had tied up all the others .
This , however , he also got used to , when he saw that they could never hit him , and in this way he flew about all that year , until the troll called him home again , said some strange words to him , and gave him his human shape again .
` Well , how did you like being a raven ? '
said the troll . '
I liked it very well , ' said the lad , ` for never in all my days have I been able to rise so high . '
The troll then showed him the two bushels of money which he had earned that year , and the lad was well content to remain in his service for another year .
Next day he got his old task of feeding all the wild beasts .
When this was done the troll again said some words to him , and at these he turned into a fish , and sprang into the river .
He swam up and he swam down , and thought it was pleasant to let himself drive with the stream .
In this way he came right out into the sea , and swam further and further out .
At last he came to a glass palace , which stood at the bottom of the sea .
He could see into all the rooms and halls , where everything was very grand ; all the furniture was of white ivory , inlaid with gold and pearl .
There were soft rugs and cushions of all the colours of the rainbow , and beautiful carpets that looked like the finest moss , and flowers and trees with curiously crooked branches , both green and yellow , white and red , and there were also little fountains which sprang up from the most beautiful snail-shells , and fell into bright mussel-shells , and at the same time made a most delightful music , which filled the whole palace .
The most beautiful thing of all , however , was a young girl who went about there , all alone .
She went about from one room to another , but did not seem to be happy with all the grandeur she had about her .
She walked in solitude and melancholy , and never even thought of looking at her own image in the polished glass walls that were on every side of her , although she was the prettiest creature anyone could wish to see .
The lad thought so too while he swam round the palace and peeped in from every side .
` Here , indeed , it would be better to be a man than such a poor dumb fish as I am now , ' said he to himself ; ` if I could only remember the words that the troll says when he changes my shape , then perhaps I could help myself to become a man again . '
He swam and he pondered and he thought over this until he remembered the sound of what the troll said , and then he tried to say it himself .
In a moment he stood in human form at the bottom of the sea .
He made haste then to enter the glass palace , and went up to the young girl and spoke to her .
At first he nearly frightened the life out of her , but he talked to her so kindly and explained how he had come down there that she soon recovered from her alarm , and was very pleased to have some company to relieve the terrible solitude that she lived in .
Time passed so quickly for both of them that the youth -LRB- for now he was quite a young man , and no more a lad -RRB- forgot altogether how long he had been there .
One day the girl said to him that now it was close on the time when he must become a fish again -- the troll would soon call him home , and he would have to go , but before that he must put on the shape of the fish , otherwise he could not pass through the sea alive .
Before this , while he was staying down there , she had told him that she was a daughter of the same troll whom the youth served , and he had shut her up there to keep her away from everyone .
She had now devised a plan by which they could perhaps succeed in getting to see each other again , and spending the rest of their lives together .
But there was much to attend to , and he must give careful heed to all that she told him .
She told him then that all the kings in the country round about were in debt to her father the troll , and the king of a certain kingdom , the name of which she told him , was the first who had to pay , and if he could not do so at the time appointed he would lose his head .
` And he can not pay , ' said she ; ' I know that for certain .
Now you must , first of all , give up your service with my father ; the three years are past , and you are at liberty to go .
You will go off with your six bushels of money , to the kingdom that I have told you of , and there enter the service of the king .
When the time comes near for his debt becoming due you will be able to notice by his manner that he is ill at ease .
You shall then say to him that you know well enough what it is that is weighing upon him -- that it is the debt which he owes to the troll and can not pay , but that you can lend him the money .
The amount is six bushels -- just what you have .
You shall , however , only lend them to him on condition that you may accompany him when he goes to make the payment , and that you then have permission to run before him as a fool .
When you arrive at the troll 's abode , you must perform all kinds of foolish tricks , and see that you break a whole lot of his windows , and do all other damage that you can .
My father will then get very angry , and as the king must answer for what his fool does he will sentence him , even although he has paid his debt , either to answer three questions or to lose his life .
The first question my father will ask will be , `` Where is my daughter ? ''
Then you shall step forward and answer `` She is at the bottom of the sea . ''
He will then ask you whether you can recognise her , and to this you will answer `` Yes . ''
Then he will bring forward a whole troop of women , and cause them to pass before you , in order that you may pick out the one that you take for his daughter .
You will not be able to recognise me at all , and therefore I will catch hold of you as I go past , so that you can notice it , and you must then make haste to catch me and hold me fast .
You have then answered his first question .
His next question will be , `` Where is my heart ? ''
You shall then step forward again and answer , `` It is in a fish . ''
`` Do you know that fish ? ''
he will say , and you will again answer `` Yes . ''
He will then cause all kinds of fish to come before you , and you shall choose between them .
I shall take good care to keep by your side , and when the right fish comes I will give you a little push , and with that you will seize the fish and cut it up .
Then all will be over with the troll ; he will ask no more questions , and we shall be free to wed. ' When the youth had got all these directions as to what he had to do when he got ashore again the next thing was to remember the words which the troll said when he changed him from a human being to an animal ; but these he had forgotten , and the girl did not know them either .
He went about all day in despair , and thought and thought , but he could not remember what they sounded like .
During the night he could not sleep , until towards morning he fell into a slumber , and all at once it flashed upon him what the troll used to say .
He made haste to repeat the words , and at the same moment he became a fish again and slipped out into the sea .
Immediately after this he was called upon , and swam through the sea up the river to where the troll stood on the bank and restored him to human shape with the same words as before .
` Well , how do you like to be a fish ? '
asked the troll .
It was what he had liked best of all , said the youth , and that was no lie , as everybody can guess .
The troll then showed him the three bushels of money which he had earned during the past year ; they stood beside the other three , and all the six now belonged to him .
` Perhaps you will serve me for another year yet , ' said the troll , ` and you will get six bushels of money for it ; that makes twelve in all , and that is a pretty penny . '
` No , ' said the youth ; he thought he had done enough , and was anxious to go to some other place to serve , and learn other people 's ways ; but he would , perhaps , come back to the troll some other time .
The troll said that he would always be welcome ; he had served him faithfully for the three years they had agreed upon , and he could make no objections to his leaving now .
The youth then got his six bushels of money , and with these he betook himself straight to the kingdom which his sweetheart had told him of .
He got his money buried in a lonely spot close to the king 's palace , and then went in there and asked to be taken into service .
He obtained his request , and was taken on as stableman , to tend the king 's horses .
Some time passed , and he noticed how the king always went about sorrowing and grieving , and was never glad or happy .
One day the king came into the stable , where there was no one present except the youth , who said straight out to him that , with his majesty 's permission , he wished to ask him why he was so sorrowful .
` It 's of no use speaking about that , ' said the king ; ` you can not help me , at any rate . '
` You do n't know about that , ' said the youth ; ' I know well enough what it is that lies so heavy on your mind , and I know also of a plan to get the money paid . '
This was quite another case , and the king had more talk with the stableman , who said that he could easily lend the king the six bushels of money , but would only do it on condition that he should be allowed to accompany the king when he went to pay the debt , and that he should then be dressed like the king 's court fool , and run before him .
He would cause some trouble , for which the king would be severely spoken to , but he would answer for it that no harm would befall him .
The king gladly agreed to all that the youth proposed , and it was now high time for them to set out .
When they came to the troll 's dwelling it was no longer in the bank , but on the top of this there stood a large castle which the youth had never seen before .
The troll could , in fact , make it visible or invisible , just as he pleased , and , knowing as much as he did of the troll 's magic arts , the youth was not at all surprised at this .
When they came near to this castle , which looked as if it was of pure glass , the youth ran on in front as the king 's fool .
Heran sometimes facing forwards , sometimes backwards , stood sometimes on his head , and sometimes on his feet , and he dashed in pieces so many of the troll 's big glass windows and doors that it was something awful to see , and overturned everything he could , and made a fearful disturbance .
The troll came rushing out , and was so angry and furious , and abused the king with all his might for bringing such a wretched fool with him , as he was sure that he could not pay the least bit of all the damage that had been done when he could not even pay off his old debt .
The fool , however , spoke up , and said that he could do so quite easily , and the king then came forward with the six bushels of money which the youth had lent him .
They were measured and found to be correct .
This the troll had not reckoned on , but he could make no objection against it .
The old debt was honestly paid , and the king got his bond back again .
But there still remained all the damage that had been done that day , and the king had nothing with which to pay for this .
The troll , therefore , sentenced the king , either to answer three questions that he would put to him , or have his head taken off , as was agreed on in the old bond .
There was nothing else to be done than to try to answer the troll 's riddles .
The fool then stationed himself just by the king 's side while the troll came forward with his questions .
He first asked , ` Where is my daughter ? '
The fool spoke up and said , ` She is at the bottom of the sea . '
` How do you know that ? '
said the troll .
` The little fish saw it , ' said the fool .
` Would you know her ? '
said the troll .
` Yes , bring her forward , ' said the fool .
The troll made a whole crowd of women go past them , one after the other , but all these were nothing but shadows and deceptions .
Amongst the very last was the troll 's real daughter , who pinched the fool as she went past him to make him aware of her presence .
He thereupon caught her round the waist and held her fast , and the troll had to admit that his first riddle was solved .
Then the troll asked again : ` Where is my heart ? '
` It is in a fish , ' said the fool .
` Would you know that fish ? '
said the troll .
` Yes , bring it forward , ' said the fool .
Then all the fishes came swimming past them , and meanwhile the troll 's daughter stood just by the youth 's side .
When at last the right fish came swimming along she gave him a nudge , and he seized it at once , drove his knife into it , and split it up , took the heart out of it , and cut it through the middle .
At the same moment the troll fell dead and turned into pieces of flint .
With that a , ll the bonds that the troll had bound were broken ; all the wild beasts and birds which he had caught and hid under the ground were free now , and dispersed themselves in the woods and in the air .
The youth and his sweetheart entered the castle , which was now theirs , and held their wedding ; and all the kings roundabout , who had been in the troll 's debt , and were now out of it , came to the wedding , and saluted the youth as their emperor , and he ruled over them all , and kept peace between them , and lived in his castle with his beautiful empress in great joy and magnificence .
And if they have not died since they are living there to this day .
Esben and the Witch From the Danish .
There was once a man who had twelve sons : the eleven eldest were both big and strong , but the twelfth , whose name was Esben , was only a little fellow .
The eleven eldest went out with their father to field and forest , but Esben preferred to stay at home with his mother , and so he was never reckoned at all by the rest , but was a sort of outcast among them .
When the eleven had grown up to be men they decided to go out into the world to try their fortune , and they plagued their father to give them what they required for the journey .
The father was not much in favour of this , for he was now old and weak , and could not well spare them from helping him with his work , but in the long run he had to give in .
Each one of the eleven got a fine white horse and money for the journey , and so they said farewell to their father and their home , and rode away .
As for Esben , no one had ever thought about him ; his brothers had not even said farewell to him .
After the eleven were gone Esben went to his father and said , ` Father , give me also a horse and money ; I should also like to see round about me in the world . '
` You are a little fool , ' said his father .
` If I could have let you go , and kept your eleven brothers at home , it would have been better for me in my old age . '
` Well , you will soon be rid of me at any rate , ' said Esben .
As he could get no other horse , he went into the forest , broke off a branch , stripped the bark off it , so that it became still whiter than his brothers ' horses , and , mounted on this .
rode off after his eleven brothers .
The brothers rode on the whole day , and towards evening they came to a great forest , which they entered .
Far within the wood they came to a little house , and knocked at the door .
There came an old , ugly , bearded hag , and opened it , and they asked her whether all of them could get quarters for the night .
` Yes , ' said the old , bearded hag , ` you shall all have quarters for the night , and , in addition , each of you shall have one of my daughters . '
The eleven brothers thought that they had come to very hospitable people .
They were well attended to , and when they went to bed , each of them got one of the hag 's daughters .
Esben had been coming along behind them , and had followed the same way , and had also found the same house in the forest .
He slipped into this , without either the witch or her daughters noticing him , and hid himself under one of the beds .
A little before midnight he crept quietly out and wakened his brothers .
He told these to change night-caps with the witch 's daughters .
The brothers saw no reason for this , but , to get rid of Esben 's persistence , they made the exchange , and slept soundly again .
When midnight came Esben heard the old witch come creeping along .
She had a broad-bladed axe in her hand , and went over all the eleven beds .
It was so dark that she could not see a hand 's breadth before her , but she felt her way , and hacked the heads off all the sleepers who had the men 's night-caps on -- and these were her own daughters .
As soon as she had gone her way Esben wakened his brothers , and they hastily took their horses and rode off from the witch 's house , glad that they had escaped so well .
They quite forgot to thank Esben for what he had done for them .
When they had ridden onwards for some time they reached a king 's palace , and inquired there whether they could be taken into service .
Quite easily , they were told , if they would be stablemen , otherwise the king had no use for them .
They were quite ready for this , and got the task of looking after all the king 's horses .
Long after them came Esben riding on his stick , and he also wanted to get a place in the palace , but no one had any use for him , and he was told that he could just go back the way he had come .
However , he stayed there and occupied himself as best he could .
He got his food , but nothing more , and by night he lay just where he could .
At this time there was in the palace a knight who was called Sir Red .
He was very well liked by the king , but hated by everyone else , for he was wicked both in will and deed .
This Sir Red became angry with the eleven brothers , because they would not always stand at attention for him , so he determined to avenge himself on them .
One day , therefore , he went to the king , and said that the eleven brothers who had come to the palace a little while ago , and served as stablemen , could do a great deal more than they pretended .
One day he had heard them say that if they liked they could get for the king a wonderful dove which had a feather of gold and a feather of silver time about .
But they would not procure it unless they were threatened with death .
The king then had the eleven brothers called before him , and said to them , ` You have said that you can get me a dove which has feathers of gold and silver time about . '
All the eleven assured him that they had never said anything of the kind , and they did not believe that such a dove existed in the whole world .
` Take your own mind of it , ' said the king ; ` but if you do n't get that dove within three days you shall lose your heads , the whole lot of you . '
With that the king let them go , and there was great grief among them ; some wept and others lamented .
At that moment Esben came along , and , seeing their sorrowful looks , said to them , ` Hello , what 's the matter with you ? '
` What good would it do to tell you , you little fool ?
You ca n't help us . '
` Oh , you do n't know that , ' answered Esben . '
I have helped you before . '
In the end they told him how unreasonable the king was , and how he had ordered them to get for him a dove with feathers of gold and silver time about .
` Give me a bag of peas ' said Esben , ` and I shall see what I can do for you . '
Esben got his bag of peas ; then he took his white stick , and said , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Straightway the stick carried him across the river and straight into the old witch 's courtyard .
Esben had noticed that she had such a dove ; so when he arrived in the courtyard he shook the peas out of the bag , and the dove came fluttering down to pick them up .
Esben caught it at once , put it into the bag , and hurried off before the witch caught sight of him ; but the next moment she came running , and shouted after him , ' I Hey is that you , Esben .
? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Is it you that has taken my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it you that made me kill my eleven daughters ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you coming back again ? '
` That may be , ' said Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' shouted the witch .
The stick carried Esben with the dove back to the king 's palace , and his brothers were greatly delighted .
The king thanked them many times for the dove , and gave them in return both silver and gold .
At this Sir Red became still more embittered , and again thought of how to avenge himself on the brothers .
One day he went to the king and told him that the dove was by no means the best thing that the brothers could get for him ; for one day he had heard them talking quietly among themselves , and they had said that they could procure a boar whose bristles were of gold and silver time about .
The king again summoned the brothers before him , and asked whether it was true that they had said that they could get for him a boar whose bristles were of gold and silver time about .
` No , ' said the brothers ; they had never said nor thought such a thing , and they did not believe that there was such a boar in the whole world .
` You must get me that boar within three days , ' said the king , ` or it will cost you your heads . '
With that they had to go .
This was still worse than before , they thought .
Where could they get such a marvellous boar ?
They all went about hanging their heads ; but when only one day remained of the three Esben came along .
When he saw his brothers ' sorrowful looks he cried , ` Hallo , what 's the matter now ? '
` Oh , what 's the use of telling you ? '
said his brothers .
` You ca n't help us , at any rate . '
` Ah , you do n't know that , ' said Esben ; ` I 've helped you before . '
In the end they told him how Sir Red had stirred up the king against them , so that he had ordered them to get for him a boar with bristles of gold and silver time about .
` That 's all right , ' said Esben ; ` give me a sack of malt , and it is not quite impossible that I may be able to help you . '
Esben got his sack of malt ; then he took his little white stick , set himself upon it , and said , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Off went the stick with him , and very soon he was again in the witch 's courtyard .
There he emptied out the malt , and next moment came the boar , which had every second bristle of gold and of silver .
Esben at once put it into his sack and hurried off before the witch should catch sight of him ; but the next moment she came running , and shouted after him , ` Hey !
is that you , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Is it you that has taken my pretty boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` It was also you that took my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And it was you that made me kill my eleven daughters ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you coming back again ? '
` That may be , ' said Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' said the witch .
Esben was soon back at the palace with the boar , and his brothers scarcely knew which leg to stand on , so rejoiced were they that they were safe again .
Not one of them , however , ever thought of thanking Esben for what he had done for them .
The king was still more rejoiced over the boar than he had been over the dove , and did not know what to give the brothers for it .
At this Sir Red was again possessed with anger and envy , and again he went about and planned how to get the brothers into trouble .
One day he went again to the king and said , ` These eleven brothers have now procured the dove and the boar , but they can do much more than that ; I know they have said that if they liked they could get for the king a lamp that can shine over seven kingdoms . '
` If they have said that , ' said the king , ` they shall also be made to bring it to me .
That would be a glorious lamp for me . '
Again the king sent a message to the brothers to come up to the palace .
They went accordingly , although very unwillingly , for they suspected that Sir Red had fallen on some new plan to bring them into trouble .
As soon as they came before the king he said to them , ` You brothers have said that you could , if you liked , get for me a lamp that can shine over seven kingdoms .
That lamp must be mine within three days , or it will cost you your lives . '
The brothers assured him that they had never said so , and they were sure that no such lamp existed , but their words were of no avail .
` The lamp ! '
said the king , ` or it will cost you your heads . '
The brothers were now in greater despair than ever .
They did not know what to do , for such a lamp no one had ever heard of .
But just as things looked their worst along came Esben .
` Something wrong again ? '
said he .
` What 's the matter with you now ? '
` Oh , it 's no use telling you , ' said they .
` You ca n't help us , at any rate . '
` Oh , you might at least tell me , ' said Esben ; ' I have helped you before . '
In the end they told him that the king had ordered them to bring him a lamp which could shine over seven kingdoms , but such a lamp no one had ever heard tell of .
` Give me a bushel of salt , ' said Esben , ` and we shall see how matters go . '
He got his bushel of salt , and then mounted his little white stick , and said , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
With that both he and his bushel of salt were over beside the witch 's courtyard .
But now matters were less easy , for he could not get inside the yard , as it was evening and the gate was locked .
Finally he hit upon a plan ; he got up on the roof and crept down the chimney .
He searched all round for the lamp , but could find it nowhere , for the witch always had it safely guarded , as it was one of her most precious treasures .
When he became tired of searching for it he crept into the baking - oven , intending to lie down there and sleep till morning ; but just at that moment he heard the witch calling from her bed to one of her daughters , and telling her to make some porridge for her .
She had grown hungry , and had taken such a fancy to some porridge .
The daughter got out of bed , kindled the fire , and put on a pot with water in it .
` You must n't put any salt in the porridge , though , ' cried the witch .
` No , neither will I , ' said the daughter ; but while she was away getting the meal Esben slipped out of the oven and emptied the whole bushel of salt into the pot .
The daughter came back then and put in the meal , and after it had boiled a little she took it in to her mother .
The witch took a spoonful and tasted it .
` Uh ! '
said she ; ` did n't I tell you not to put any salt in it , and it 's just as salt as the sea . '
So the daughter had to go and make new porridge , and her mother warned her strictly not to put any salt in it .
But now there was no water in the house , so she asked her mother to give her the lamp , so that she could go to the well for more .
` There you have it , then , ' said the witch ; ` but take good care of it . '
The daughter took the lamp which shone over seven kingdoms , and went out to the well for water , while Esben slipped out after her .
When she was going to draw the water from the well she set the lamp down on a stone beside her .
Esben watched his chance , seized the lamp , and gave her a push from behind , so that she plumped head first into the well .
Then he made off with the lamp .
But the witch got out of her bed and ran after him , crying : ` Hey !
is that you again , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it you that took my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it also you that took my boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And it was you that made me kill my eleven daughters ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And now you have taken my lamp , and drowned my twelfth daughter in the well ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you coming back again ? '
` That may be , ' said Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' said the witch .
It was only a minute before the stick had again landed Esben at the king 's palace , and the brothers were then freed from their distress .
The king gave them many fine presents , but Esben did not get even so much as thanks from them .
Never had Sir Red been so eaten up with envy as he was now , and he racked his brain day and night to find something quite impossible to demand from the brothers .
One day he went to the king and told him that the lamp the brothers had procured was good enough , but they could still get for him something that was far better .
The king asked what that was .
` It is , ' said Sir Red , ` the most beautiful coverlet that any mortal ever heard tell of .
It also has the property that , when anyone touches it , it sounds so that it can be heard over eight kingdoms . '
` That must be a splendid coverlet , ' said the king , and he at once sent for the brothers .
` You have said that you know of a coverlet , the most beautiful in the whole world , and which sounds over eight kingdoms when anyone touches it .
You shall procure it for me , or else lose your lives , ' said he .
The brothers answered him that they had never said a word about such a coverlet , did not believe it existed , and that it was quite impossible for them to procure it .
But the king would not hear a word ; he drove them away , telling them that if they did not get it very soon it would cost them their heads .
Things looked very black again for the brothers , for they were sure there was no escape for them .
The youngest of them , indeed , asked where Esben was , but the others said that that little fool could scarcely keep himself in clothes , and it was not to be expected that he could help them .
Not one of them thought it worth while to look for Esben , but he soon came along of himself .
` Well , what 's the matter now ? '
said he .
` Oh , what 's the use of telling you ? '
said the brothers .
` You ca n't help us , at any rate . '
` Ah !
who knows that ? '
said Esben . '
I have helped you before . '
In the end the brothers told him about the coverlet which , when one touched it , sounded so that it could be heard over eight kingdoms .
Esben thought that this was the worst errand that he had had yet , but he could not do worse than fail , and so he would make the attempt .
He again took his little white stick , set himself on it , and said , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Next moment he was across the river and beside the witch 's house .
It was evening , and the door was locked , but he knew the way down the chimney .
When he had got into the house , however , the worst yet remained to do , for the coverlet was on the bed in which the witch lay and slept .
He slipped into the room without either she or her daughter wakening ; but as soon as he touched the coverlet to take it it sounded so that it could be heard over eight kingdoms .
The witch awoke , sprang out of bed , and caught hold of Esben .
He struggled with her , but could not free himself , and the witch called to her daughter , ` Come and help me ; we shall put him into the little dark room to be fattened .
Ho , ho !
now I have him ! '
Esben was now put into a little dark hole , where he neither saw sun nor moon , and there he was fed on sweet milk and nut-kernels .
The daughter had enough to do cracking nuts for him , and at the end of fourteen days she had only one tooth left in her mouth ; she had broken all the rest with the nuts .
In this time however , she had taken a liking to Esben , and would willingly have set him free , but could not .
When some time had passed the witch told her daughter to go and cut a finger off Esben , so that she could see whether he was nearly fat enough yet .
The daughter went and told Esben , and asked him what she should do .
Esben told her to take an iron nail and wrap a piece of skin round it : she could then give her mother this to bite at .
The daughter did so , but when the witch bit it she cried , ` Uh !
no , no !
This is nothing but skin and bone ; he must be fattened much longer yet . '
So Esben was fed for a while longer on sweet milk and nut-kernels , until one day the witch thought that now he must surely be fat enough , and told her daughter again to go and cut a finger off him .
By this time Esben was tired of staying in the dark hole , so he told her to go and cut a teat off a cow , and give it to the witch to bite at .
This the daughter did , and the witch cried , ` Ah !
now he is fat -- so fat that one can scarcely feel the bone in him .
Now he shall be killed . '
Now this was just the very time that the witch had to go to Troms Church , where all the witches gather once every year , so she had no time to deal with Esben herself .
She therefore told her daughter to heat up the big oven while she was away , take Esben out of his prison , and roast him in there before she came back .
The daughter promised all this , and the witch went off on her journey .
The daughter then made the oven as hot as could be , and took Esben out of his prison in order to roast him .
She brought the oven spade , and told Esben to seat himself on it , so that she could shoot him into the oven .
Esben accordingly took his seat on it , but when she had got him to the mouth of the oven he spread his legs out wide , so that she could not get him pushed in .
` You must n't sit like that , ' said she .
` How then ? '
said Esben .
` You must cross your legs , ' said the daughter ; but Esben could not understand what she meant by this .
` Get out of the way , ' said she , ` and I will show you how to place yourself . '
She seated herself on the oven spade , but no sooner had she done so than Esben laid hold of it , shot her into the oven , and fastened the door of it .
Then he ran and seized the coverlet , but as soon as he did so it sounded so that it could be heard over eight kingdoms , and the witch , who was at Troms Church , came flying home , and shouted , ` Hey !
is that you again , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` It was you that made me kill my eleven daughters ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And took my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And my beautiful boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And drowned my twelfth daughter in the well , and took my lamp ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And now you have roasted my thirteenth and last daughter in the oven , and taken my coverlet ? '
` YeÄeÄs ! '
` Are you coming back again ? '
` No , never again , ' said Esben .
At this the witch became so furious that she sprang into numberless pieces of flint , and from this come all the flint stones that one finds about the country .
Esben had found again his little stick , which the witch had taken from him , so he said , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Next moment he was back at the king 's palace .
Here things were in a bad way , for the king had thrown all the eleven brothers into prison , and they were to be executed very shortly because they had not brought him the coverlet .
Esben now went up to the king and gave him the coverlet , with which the king was greatly delighted .
When he touched it it could be heard over eight kingdoms , and all the other kings sat and were angry because they had not one like it .
Esben also told how everything had happened , and how Sir Red had done the brothers all the ill he could devise because he was envious of them .
The brothers were at once set at liberty , while Sir Red , for his wickedness , was hanged on the highest tree that could be found , and so he got the reward he deserved .
Much was made of Esben and his brothers , and these now thanked him for all that he had done for them .
The twelve of them received as much gold and silver as they could carry , and betook themselves home to their old father .
When he saw again his twelve sons , whom he had never expected to see more , he was so glad that he wept for joy .
The brothers told him how much Esben had done , and how he had saved their lives , and from that time forward he was no longer the butt of the rest at home .
Princess Minon-minette Bibliotheque des Fees et aes Genies Once upon a time there lived a young king whose name was Souci , and he had been brought up , ever since he was a baby , by the fairy Inconstancy .
Now the fairy Girouette had a kind heart , but she was a very trying person to live with , for she never knew her own mind for two minutes together , and as she was the sole ruler at Court till the prince grew up everything was always at sixes and sevens .
At first she determined to follow the old custom of keeping the young king ignorant of the duties he would have to perform some day ; then , quite suddenly , she resigned the reins of government into his hands ; but , unluckily , it was too late to train him properly for the post .
However , the fairy did not think of that , but , carried away by her new ideas , she hastily formed a Council , and named as Prime Minister the excellent ` Ditto , ' so called because he had never been known to contradict anybody .
Young Prince Souci had a handsome face , and at the bottom a good deal of common sense ; but he had never been taught good manners , and was shy and awkward ; and had , besides , never learned how to use his brains .
Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the Council did not get through much work .
Indeed , the affairs of the country fell into such disorder that at last the people broke out into open rebellion , and it was only the courage of the king , who continued to play the flute while swords and spears were flashing before the palace gate , that prevented civil war from being declared .
No sooner was the revolt put down than the Council turned their attention to the question of the young king 's marriage .
Various princesses were proposed to him , and the fairy , who was anxious to get the affair over before she left the Court for ever , gave it as her opinion that the Princess Diaphana would make the most suitable wife .
Accordingly envoys were sent to bring back an exact report of the princess 's looks and ways , and they returned saying that she was tall and well made , but so very light that the equerries who accompanied her in her walks had to be always watching her , lest she should suddenly be blown away .
This had happened so often that her subjects lived in terror of losing her altogether , and tried everything they could think of to keep her to the ground .
They even suggested that she should carry weights in her pockets , or have them tied to her ankles ; but this idea was given up , as the princess found it so uncomfortable .
At length it was decided that she was never to go out in a wind , and in order to make matters surer still the equerries each held the end of a string which was fastened to her waist .
The Council talked over this report for some days , and then the king made up his mind that he would judge for himself , and pretend to be his own ambassador .
This plan was by no means new , but it had often succeeded , and , anyhow , they could think of nothing better .
Such a splendid embassy had never before been seen in any country .
The kingdom was left in the charge of the Prime Minister , who answered ` Ditto ' to everything ; but the choice was better than it seemed , for the worthy man was much beloved by the people , as he agreed with all they said , and they left him feeling very pleased with themselves and their own wisdom .
When the king arrived at Diaphana 's Court he found a magnificent reception awaiting him , for , though they pretended not to know who he was , secrets like this are never hidden .
Now the young king had a great dislike to long ceremonies , so he proposed that his second interview with the princess should take place in the garden .
The princess made some difficulties , but , as the weather was lovely and very still , she at last consented to the king 's wishes .
But no sooner had they finished their first bows and curtseys than a slight breeze sprung up , and began to sway the princess , whose equerries had retired out of respect .
The king went forward to steady her , but the wind that he caused only drove her further away from him .
He rushed after her exclaiming , ' O princess !
are you really running away from me ? '
` Good gracious , no ! '
she replied .
` Run a little quicker and you will be able to stop me , and I shall be for ever grateful .
That is what comes of talking in a garden , ' she added in disgust ; ` as if one was n't much better in a room that was tightly closed all round . '
The king ran as fast as he could , but the wind ran faster still , and in a moment the princess was whirled to the bottom of the garden , which was bounded by a ditch .
She cleared it like a bird , and the king , who was obliged to stop short at the edge , saw the lovely Diaphana flying over the plain , sometimes driven to the right , sometimes to the left , till at last she vanished out of sight .
By this time the whole court were running over the plain , some on foot and some on horseback , all hurrying to the help of their princess , who really was in some danger , for the wind was rising to the force of a gale .
The king looked on for a little , and then returned with his attendants to the palace , reflecting all the while on the extreme lightness of his proposed bride and the absurdity of having a wife that rose in the air better than any kite .
He thought on the whole that it would be wiser not to wait longer , but to depart at once , and he started on horseback at the very moment when the princess had been found by her followers , wet to the skin , and blown against a rick .
Souci met the carriage which was bringing her home , and stopped to congratulate her on her escape , and to advise her to put on dry clothes .
Then he continued his journey .
It took a good while for the king to get home again , and he was rather cross at having had so much trouble for nothing .
Besides which , his courtiers made fun at his adventure , and he did not like being laughed at , though of course they did not dare to do it before his face .
And the end of it was that very soon he started on his travels again , only allowing one equerry to accompany him , and even this attendant he managed to lose the moment he had left his own kingdom behind him .
Now it was the custom in those days for princes and princesses to be brought up by fairies , who loved them as their own children , and did not mind what inconvenience they put other people to for their sakes , for all the world as if they had been real mothers .
The fairy Aveline , who lived in a country that touched at one point the kingdom of King Souci , had under her care the lovely Princess Minon-Minette , and had made up her mind to marry her to the young king , who , in spite of his awkward manners , which could be improved , was really very much nicer than most of the young men she was likely to meet .
So Aveline made her preparations accordingly , and began by arranging that the equerry should lose himself in the forest , after which she took away the king 's sword and his horse while he lay asleep under a tree .
Her reason for this was that she felt persuaded that , finding himself suddenly alone and robbed of everything , the king would hide his real birth , and would have to fall back on his powers of pleasing , like other men , which would be much better for him .
When the king awoke and found that the tree to which he had tied his horse had its lowest branch broken , and that nothing living was in sight , he was much dismayed , and sought high and low for his lost treasure , but all in vain .
After a time he began to get hungry , so he decided that he had better try to find his way out of the forest , and perhaps he might have a chance of getting something to eat .
He had only gone a few steps when he met Aveline , who had taken the shape of an old woman with a heavy bundle of faggots on her back .
She staggered along the path and almost fell at his feet , and Souci , afraid that she might have hurt herself , picked her up and set her on her feet again before passing on his way .
But he was not to be let off so easy .
` What about my bundle ? '
cried the old woman .
` Where is your politeness ?
Really , you seem to have been very nicely brought up !
What have they taught you ? '
` Taught me ?
Nothing , ' replied he . '
I can well believe it ! '
she said .
` You do n't know even how to pick up a bundle .
Oh , you can come near ; I am cleverer than you , and know how to pick up a bundle very well . '
The king blushed at her words , which he felt had a great deal of truth in them , and took up the bundle meekly .
Aveline , delighted at the success of her first experiment , hobbled along after him , chattering all the while , as old women do . '
I wish , ' she said , ` that all kings had done as much once in their lives .
Then they would know what a lot of trouble it takes to get wood for their fires . '
Souci felt this to be true , and was sorry for the old woman .
` Where are we going to ? '
asked he .
` To the castle of the White Demon ; and if you are in want of work I will find you something to do . '
` But I ca n't do anything , ' he said , ` except carry a bundle , and I sha n't earn much by that . '
` Oh , you are learning , ' replied the old woman , ` and it is n't bad for a first lesson . '
But the king was paying very little attention to her , for he was rather cross and very tired .
Indeed , he felt that he really could not carry the bundle any further , and was about to lay it down when up came a young maiden more beautiful than the day , and covered with precious stones .
She ran to them , exclaiming to the old woman , ` Oh , you poor thing !
I was just coming after you to see if I could help you . '
` Here is a young man , ' replied the old woman , ` who will be quite ready to give you up the bundle .
You see he does not look as if he enjoyed carrying it . '
` Will you let me take it , sir ? '
she asked .
But the king felt ashamed of himself , and held on to it tightly , while the presence of the princess put him in a better temper .
So they all travelled together till they arrived at a very ordinary-looking house , which Aveline pointed out as the castle of the White Demon , and told the king that he might put down his bundle in the courtyard .
The young man was terribly afraid of being recognised by someone in this strange position , and would have turned on his heel and gone away had it not been for the thought of Minon-Minette .
Still , he felt very awkward and lonely , for both the princess and the old woman had entered the castle without taking the slightest notice of the young man , who remained where he was for some time , not quite knowing what he had better do .
At length a servant arrived and led him up into a beautiful room filled with people , who were either playing on musical instruments or talking in a lively manner , which astonished the king , who stood silently listening , and not at all pleased at the want of attention paid him .
Matters went on this way for some time .
Every day the king fell more and more in love with Minon-Minette , and every day the princess seemed more and more taken up with other people .
At last , in despair , the prince sought out the old woman , to try to get some advice from her as to his conduct , or , anyway , to have the pleasure of talking about Minon-Minette .
He found her spinning in an underground chamber , but quite ready to tell him all he wanted to know .
In answer to his questions he learned that in order to win the hand of the princess it was not enough to be born a prince , for she would marry nobody who had not proved himself faithful , and had , besides , all those talents and accomplishments which help to make people happy .
For a moment Souci was very much cast down on hearing this , but then he plucked up .
` Tell me what I must do in order to win the heart of the princess , and no matter how hard it is I will do it .
And show me how I can repay you for your kindness , and you shall have anything I can give you .
Shall I bring in your bundle of faggots every day ? '
` It is enough that you should have made the offer , ' replied the old woman ; and she added , holding out a skein of thread , ` Take this ; one day you will be thankful for it , and when it becomes useless your difficulties will be past . '
` Is it the skein of my life ? '
he asked .
` It is the skein of your love 's ill-luck , ' she said .
And he took it and went away .
Now the fairy Girouette , who had brought up Souci , had an old friend called Grimace , the protectress of Prince Fluet .
Grimace often talked over the young prince 's affairs with Girouette , and , when she decided that he was old enough to govern his own kingdom , consulted Girouette as to a suitable wife .
Girouette , who never stopped to think or to make inquiries , drew such a delightful picture of Minon-Minette that Grimace determined to spare no pains to bring about the marriage , and accordingly Fluet was presented at court .
But though the young man was pleasant and handsome , the princess thought him rather womanish in some ways , and displayed her opinion so openly as to draw upon herself and Aveline the anger of the fairy , who declared that Minon-Minette should never know happiness till she had found a bridge without an arch and a bird without feathers .
So saying , she also went away .
Before the king set out afresh on his travels Aveline had restored to him his horse and his sword , and though these were but small consolation for the absence of the princess , they were better than nothing , for he felt that somehow they might be the means of leading him back to her .
After crossing several deserts the king arrived at length in a country that seemed inhabited , but the instant he stepped over the border he was seized and flung into chains , and dragged at once to the capital .
He asked his guards why he was treated like this , but the only answer he got was that he was in the territory of the Iron King , for in those days countries had no names of their own , but were called after their rulers .
The young man was led into the presence of the Iron King , who was seated on a black throne in a hall also hung with black , as a token of mourning for all the relations whom he had put to death .
` What are you doing in my country ? '
he cried fiercely . '
I came here by accident , ' replied Souci , ` and if I ever escape from your clutches I will take warning by you and treat my subjects differently . '
` Do you dare to insult me in my own court ? '
cried the king .
` Away with him to Little Ease ! '
Now Little Ease was an iron cage hung by four thick chains in the middle of a great vaulted hall , and the prisoner inside could neither sit , nor stand , nor lie ; and , besides that , he was made to suffer by turns unbearable heat and cold , while a hundred heavy bolts kept everything safe .
Girouette , whose business it was to see after Souci , had forgotten his existence in the excitement of some new idea , and he would not have been alive long to trouble anybody if Aveline had not come to the rescue and whispered in his ear , ` And the skein of thread ? '
He took it up obediently , though he did not see how it would help him but he tied it round one of the iron bars of his cage , which seemed the only thing he could do , and gave a pull .
To his surprise the bar gave way at once , and he found he could break it into a thousand pieces .
After this it did not take him long to get out of his cage , or to treat the closely barred windows of the hall in the same manner .
But even after he had done all this freedom appeared as far from him as ever , for between him and the open country was a high wall , and so smooth that not even a monkey could climb it .
Then Souci 's heart died within him .
He saw nothing for it but to submit to some horrible death , but he determined that the Iron King should not profit more than he could help , and flung his precious thread into the air , saying , as he did so , ' O fairy , my misfortunes are greater than your power .
I am grateful for your goodwill , but take back your gift ! '
The fairy had pity on his youth and want of faith , and took care that one end of the thread remained in his hand .
He suddenly felt a jerk , and saw that the thread must have caught on something , and this thought filled him with the daring that is born of despair .
` Better , ' he said to himself , ` trust to a thread than to the mercies of a king ; ' and , gliding down , he found himself safe on the other side of the wall .
Then he rolled up the thread and put it carefully into his pocket , breathing silent thanks to the fairy .
Now Minon-Minette had been kept informed by Aveline of the prince 's adventures , and when she heard of the way in which he had been treated by the Iron King she became furious , and began to prepare for war .
She made her plans with all the secrecy she could , but when great armies are collected people are apt to suspect a storm is brewing , and of course it is very difficult to keep anything hidden from fairy godmothers .
Anyway , Grimace soon heard of it , and as she had never forgiven Minon-Minette for refusing Prince Fluet , she felt that here was her chance of revenge .
Up to this time Aveline had been able to put a stop to many of Grimace 's spiteful tricks , and to keep guard over Minon-Minette , but she had no power over anything that happened at a distance ; and when the princess declared her intention of putting herself at the head of her army , and began to train herself to bear fatigue by hunting daily , the fairy entreated her to be careful never to cross the borders of her dominions without Aveline to protect her .
The princess at once gave her promise , and all went well for some days .
Unluckily one morning , as Minon-Minette was cantering slowly on her beautiful white horse , thinking a great deal about Souci and not at all of the boundaries of her kingdom -LRB- of which , indeed , she was very ignorant -RRB- , she suddenly found herself in front of a house made entirely of dead leaves , which somehow brought all sorts of unpleasant things into her head .
She remembered Aveline 's warning , and tried to turn her horse , but it stood as still as if it had been marble .
Then the princess felt that she was slowly , and against her will , being dragged to the ground .
She shrieked , and clung tightly to the saddle , but it was all in vain ; she longed to fly , but something outside herself proved too strong for her , and she was forced to take the path that led to the House of Dead Leaves .
Scarcely had her feet touched the threshold than Grimace appeared .
` So here you are at last , Minon-Minette !
I have been watching for you a long time , and my trap was ready for you from the beginning .
Come here , my darling !
I will teach you to make war on my friends !
Things wo n't turn out exactly as you fancied .
What you have got to do now is to go on your knees to the king and crave his pardon , and before he consents to a peace you will have to implore him to grant you the favour of becoming his wife .
Meanwhile you will have to be my servant . '
From that day the poor princess was put to the hardest and dirtiest work , and each morning something more disagreeable seemed to await her .
Besides which , she had no food but a little black bread , and no bed but a little straw .
Out of pure spite she was sent in the heat of the day to look after the geese , and would most likely have got a sunstroke if she had not happened to pick up in the fields a large fan , with which she sheltered her face .
To be sure , a fan seems rather an odd possession for a goose girl , but the princess did not think of that , and she forgot all her troubles when , on opening the fan to use it as a parasol , out tumbled a letter from her lover .
Then she felt sure that the fairy had not forgotten her , and took heart .
When Grimace saw that Minon-Minette still managed to look as white as snow , instead of being burnt as brown as a berry , she wondered what could have happened , and began to watch her closely .
The following day , when the sun was at its highest and hottest , she noticed her draw a fan from the folds of her dress and hold it before her eyes .
The fairy , in a rage , tried to snatch it from her , but the princess would not let it go .
` Give me that fan at once ! '
cried Grimace .
` Never while I live ! '
answered the princess , and , not knowing where it would be safest , placed it under her feet .
In an instant she felt herself rising from the ground , with the fan always beneath her , and while Grimace was too much blinded by her fury to notice what was going on the princess was quickly soaring out of her reach .
All this time Souci had been wandering through the world with his precious thread carefully fastened round him , seeking every possible and impossible place where his beloved princess might chance to be .
But though he sometimes found traces of her , or even messages scratched on a rock , or cut in the bark of a tree , she herself was nowhere to be found .
` If she is not on the earth , ' said Souci to himself , ` perhaps she is hiding somewhere in the air .
It is there that I shall find her . '
So , by the help of his thread , he tried to mount upwards , but he could go such a little way , and hurt himself dreadfully when he tumbled back to earth again .
Still he did not give up , and after many days of efforts and tumbles he found to his great joy that he could go a little higher and stay up a little longer than he had done at first , and by-and-bye he was able to live in the air altogether .
But alas !
the world of the air seemed as empty of her as the world below , and Souci was beginning to despair , and to think that he must go and search the world that lay in the sea .
He was floating sadly along , not paying any heed to where he was going , when he saw in the distance a beautiful , bright sort of bird coming towards him .
His heart beat fast -- he did not know why -- and as they both drew near the voice of the princess exclaimed , ` Behold the bird without feathers and the bridge without an arch ! '
So their first meeting took place in the air , but it was none the less happy for that ; and the fan grew big enough to hold the king as well as Aveline , who had hastened to give them some good advice .
She guided the fan above the spot where the two armies lay encamped before each other ready to give battle .
The fight was long and bloody , but in the end the Iron King was obliged to give way and surrender to the princess , who set him to keep King Souci 's sheep , first making him swear a solemn oath that he would treat them kindly .
Then the marriage took place , in the presence of Girouette , whom they had the greatest trouble to find , and who was much astonished to discover how much business had been got through in her absence .
Maiden Bright-eye From the Danish Once , upon a time there was a man and his wife who had two children , a boy and a girl .
The wife died , and the man married again .
His new wife had an only daughter , who was both ugly and untidy , whereas her stepdaughter was a beautiful girl , and was known as Maiden Bright-eye .
Her stepmother was very cruel to her on this account ; she had always to do the hardest work , and got very little to eat , and no attention paid to her ; but to her own daughter she was all that was good .
She was spared from all the hardest of the housework , and had always the prettiest clothes to wear .
Maiden Bright-eye had also to watch the sheep , but of course it would never do to let her go idle and enjoy herself too much at this work , so she had to pull heather while she was out on the moors with them .
Her stepmother gave her pancakes to take with her for her dinner , but she had mixed the flour with ashes , and made them just as bad as she could .
The little girl came out on the moor and began to pull heather on the side of a little mound , but next minute a little fellow with a red cap on his head popped up out of the mound and said : ` Who 's that pulling the roof off my house ? '
` Oh , it 's me , a poor little girl , ' said she ; ` my mother sent me out here , and told me to pull heather .
If you will be good to me I will give you a bit of my dinner . '
The little fellow was quite willing , and she gave him the biggest share of her pancakes .
They were not particularly good , but when one is hungry anything tastes well .
After he had got them all eaten he said to her : ` Now , I shall give you three wishes , for you are a very nice little girl ; but I will choose the wishes for you .
You are beautiful , and much more beautiful shall you be ; yes , so lovely that there will not be your like in the world .
The next wish shall be that every time you open your mouth a gold coin shall fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the most beautiful music .
The third wish shall be that you may be married to the young king , and become the queen of the country .
At the same time I shall give you a cap , which you must carefully keep , for it can save you , if you ever are in danger of your life , if you just put it on your head .
Maiden Bright-eye thanked the little bergman ever so often , and drove home her sheep in the evening .
By that time she had grown so beautiful that her people could scarcely recognise her .
Her stepmother asked her how it had come about that she had grown so beautiful .
She told the whole story -- for she always told the truth -- that a little man had come to her out on the moor and had given her all this beauty .
She did not tell , however , that she had given him a share of her dinner .
The stepmother thought to herself , ` If one can become so beautiful by going out there , my own daughter shall also be sent , for she can well stand being made a little prettier . '
Next morning she baked for her the finest cakes , and dressed her prettily to go out with the sheep .
But she was afraid to go away there without having a stick to defend herself with if anything should come near her .
She was not very much inclined for pulling the heather , as she never was in the habit of doing any work , but she was only a minute or so at it when up came the same little fellow with the red cap , and said : ` Who 's that pulling the roof off my house ? '
` What 's that to you ? '
said she .
` Well , if you will give me a bit of your dinner I wo n't do you any mischief , ' said he . '
I will give you something else in place of my dinner , ' said she . '
I can easily eat it myself ; but if you will have something you can have a whack of my stick , ' and with that she raised it in the air and struck the bergman over the head with it .
` What a wicked little girl you are ! '
said he ; ` but you shall be none the better of this .
I shall give you three wishes , and choose them for you .
First , I shall say , `` Ugly are you , but you shall become so ugly that there will not be an uglier one on earth . ''
Next I shall wish that every time you open your mouth a big toad may fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the roaring of a bull .
In the third place I shall wish for you a violent death . '
The girl went home in the evening , and when her mother saw her she was as vexed as she could be , and with good reason , too ; but it was still worse when she saw the toads fall out of her mouth and heard her voice .
Now we must hear something about the stepson .
He had gone out into the world to look about him , and took service in the king 's palace .
About this time he got permission to go home and see his sister , and when he saw how lovely and beautiful she was , he was so pleased and delighted that when he came back to the king 's palace everyone there wanted to know what he was always so happy about .
He told them that it was because he had such a lovely sister at home .
At last it came to the ears of the king what the brother said about his sister , and , besides that , the report of her beauty spread far and wide , so that the youth was summoned before the king , who asked him if everything was true that was told about the girl .
He said it was quite true , for he had seen her beauty with his own eyes , and had heard with his own ears how sweetly she could sing and what a lovely voice she had .
The king then took a great desire for her , and ordered her brother to go home and bring her back with him , for he trusted no one better to accomplish that errand .
He got a ship , and everything else that he required , and sailed home for his sister .
As soon as the stepmother heard what his errand was she at once said to herself , ` This will never come about if I can do anything to hinder it .
She must not be allowed to come to such honour . '
She then got a dress made for her own daughter , like the finest robe for a queen , and she had a mask prepared and put upon her face , so that she looked quite pretty , and gave her strict orders not to take it off until the king had promised to wed her .
The brother now set sail with his two sisters , for the stepmother pretended that the ugly one wanted to see the other a bit on her way .
But when they got out to sea , and Maiden Bright-eye came up on deck , the sister did as her mother had instructed her -- she gave her a push and made her fall into the water .
When the brother learned what had happened he was greatly distressed , and did not know what to do .
He could not bring himself to tell the truth about what had happened , nor did he expect that the king would believe it .
In the long run he decided to hold on his way , and let things go as they liked .
What he had expected happened -- the king received his sister and wedded her at once , but repented it after the first night , as he could scarcely put down his foot in the morning for all the toads that were about the room , and when he saw her real face he was so enraged against the brother that he had him thrown into a pit full of serpents .
He was so angry , not merely because he had been deceived , but because he could not get rid of the ugly wretch that was now tied to him for life .
Now we shall hear a little about Maiden Bright-eye When she fell into the water she was fortunate enough to get the bergman 's cap put on her head , for now she was in danger of her life , and she was at once transformed into a duck .
The duck swam away after the ship , and came to the king 's palace on the next evening .
There it waddled up the drain , and so into the kitchen , where her little dog lay on the hearth-stone ; it could not bear to stay in the fine chambers along with the ugly sister , and had taken refuge down here .
The duck hopped up till it could talk to the dog .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
I am here this evening , and shall be for two evenings yet , and then I shall never come again . '
When it had said this the duck waddled off again .
Several of the servant girls heard the conversation , and were greatly surprised at it , and thought that it would be worth while to catch the bird next evening and see into the matter a little more closely .
They had heard it say that it would come again .
Next evening it appeared as it had said , and a great many were present to see it .
It came waddling in by the drain , and went up to the dog , which was lying on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
I am here this evening , and shall be for one evening yet , and then I shall never come again . '
After this it slipped out , and no one could get hold of it .
But the king 's cook thought to himself , ' I shall see if I ca n't get hold of you to-morrow evening . '
On the third evening the duck again came waddling in by the drain , and up to the dog on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
now I shall never come again . '
With this it slipped out again , but in the meantime the cook had posted himself at the outer end of the drain with a net , which he threw over it as it came out .
In this way he caught it , and came in to the others with the most beautiful duck they had ever seen -- with so many golden feathers on it that everyone marvelled .
No one , however , knew what was to be done with it ; but after what they had heard they knew that there was something uncommon about it , so they took good care of it .
At this time the brother in the serpent-pit dreamed that his right sister had come swimming to the king 's palace in the shape of a duck , and that she could not regain her own form until her beak was cut off .
He got this dream told to some one , so that the king at last came to hear of it , and had him taken up out of the pit and brought before him .
The king then asked him if he could produce to him his sister as beautiful as he had formerly described her .
The brother said he could if they would bring him the duck and a knife .
Both of them were brought to him , and he said , ' I wonder how you would look if I were to cut the point off your beak . '
With this he cut a piece off the beak , and there came a voice which said , ` Oh , oh , you cut my little finger ! '
Next moment Maiden Bright-eye stood there , as lovely and beautiful as he had seen her when he was home .
This was his sister now , he said ; and the whole story now came out of how the other had behaved to her .
The wicked sister was put into a barrel with spikes round it which was dragged off by six wild horses , and so she came to her end. : But the king was delighted with Maiden Bright-eye , and immediately made her his queen , while her brother became his prime minister .
The Merry Wives From the Danish There lay three houses in a row , in one of which there lived a tailor , in another a carpenter , and in the third a smith .
All three were married , and their wives were very good friends .
They often talked about how stupid their husbands were , but they could never agree as to which of them had the most stupid one ; each one stuck up for her own husband , and maintained that it was he .
The three wives went to church together every Sunday , and had a regular good gossip on the way , and when they were coming home from church they always turned into the tavern which lay by the wayside and drank half a pint together .
This was at the time when half a pint of brandy cost threepence , so that was just a penny from each of them .
But the brandy went up in price , and the taverner said that he must have fourpence for the half-pint .
They were greatly annoyed at this , for there were only the three of them to share it , and none of them was willing to pay the extra penny .
As they went home from the church that day they decided to wager with each other as to whose husband was the most stupid , and the one who , on the following Sunday , should be judged to have played her husband the greatest trick should thereafter go free from paying , and each of the two others would give twopence for their Sunday 's half-pint .
Next day the tailor 's wife said to her husband , ' I have some girls coming to-day to help to card my wool there is a great deal to do , and we must be very busy .
I am so annoyed that our watchdog is dead , for in the evening the young fellows will come about to get fun with the girls , and they will get nothing done .
If we had only had a fierce watchdog he would have kept them away . '
` Yes , ' said the man , ` that would have been a good thing . '
` Listen , good man , ' said the wife , ` you must just be the watchdog yourself , and scare the fellows away from the house . '
The husband was not very sure about this , although otherwise he was always ready to give in to her .
` Oh yes , you will see it will work all right , ' said the wife .
And so towards evening she got the tailor dressed up in a shaggy fur coat , tied a black woollen cloth round his head , and chained him up beside the dog 's kennel . '
There he stood and barked and growled at everyone that moved in his neighbourhood .
The neighbour wives knew all about this , and were greatly amused at it .
On the day after this the carpenter had been out at work , and came home quite merry ; but as soon as he entered the house his wife clapped her hands together and cried , ` My dear , what makes you look like that ?
You are ill . '
The carpenter knew nothing about being ill ; he only thought that he wanted something to eat , so he sat down at the table and began his dinner .
His wife sat straight in front of him , with her hands folded , and shook her head , and looked at him with an anxious air .
` You are getting worse , my dear , ' she said ; ` you are quite pale now ; you have a serious illness about you ; I can see it by your looks . '
The husband now began to grow anxious , and thought that perhaps he was not quite well .
` No , indeed , ' said she ; ` it 's high time that you were in bed . '
She then got him to lie down , and piled above him all the bedclothes she could find , and gave him various medicines , while he grew worse and worse .
` You will never get over it , ' said she ; ' I am afraid you are going to die . '
` Do you think so ? '
said the carpenter ; ' I can well believe it , for I am indeed very poorly . '
In a little while she said again , ` Ah , now I must part with you .
Here comes Death .
Now I must close your eyes . '
And she did so .
The carpenter believed everything that his wife said , and so he believed now that he was dead , and lay still and let her do as she pleased .
She got her neighbours summoned , and they helped to lay him in the coffin -- it was one of those he himself had made ; but his wife had bored holes in it to let him get some air .
She made a soft bed under him , and put a coverlet over him , and she folded his hands over his breast ; but instead of a flower or a psalm-book , she gave him a pint-bottle of brandy in his hands .
After he had lain for a little he took a little pull at this , and then another and another , and he thought this did him good , and soon he was sleeping sweetly , and dreaming that he was in heaven .
Meanwhile word had gone round the village that the carpenter was dead , and was to be buried next day .
It was now the turn of the smith 's wife .
Her husband was lying sleeping off the effects of a drinking bout , so she pulled off all his clothes and made him black as coal from head to foot , and then let him sleep till far on in the day .
The funeral party had already met at the carpenter 's , and marched oft towards the church with the coffin , when the smith 's wife came rushing in to her husband .
` Gracious , man , ' said she , ` you are lying there yet ?
You are sleeping too long .
You know you are going to the funeral . '
The smith was quite confused ; he knew nothing about any funeral .
` It 's our neighbour the carpenter , ' said his wife , ` who is to be buried to-day .
They are already half-way to church with him . '
` All right , ' said the smith , ` make haste to help me on with my black clothes . '
` What nonsense ! '
said his wife , ` you have them on already .
Be off with you now . '
The smith looked down at his person and saw that he was a good deal blacker than he usually was , so he caught up his hat and ran out after the funeral .
This was already close to the church , and the smith wanted to take part in carrying the coffin , like a good neighbour .
So he ran with all his might , and shouted after them , ` Hey !
wait a little ; let me get a hold of him ! '
The people turned round and saw the black figure coming , and thought it was the devil himself , who wanted to get hold of the carpenter , so they threw down the coffin and took to their heels .
The lid sprang off the coffin with the shock , and the carpenter woke up and looked out .
He remembered the whole affair ; he knew that he was dead and was going to be buried , and recognising the smith , he said to him , in a low voice , ` My good neighbour , if I had n't been dead already , I should have laughed myself to death now to see you coming like this to my funeral . '
From that time forth the carpenter 's wife drank free of expense every Sunday , for the others had to admit that she had fooled her husband the best .
King Lindorm From the Swedish .
There once lived a king and a queen who ruled over a very great kingdom .
They had large revenues , and lived happily with each other ; but , as the years went past , the king 's heart became heavy , because the queen had no children .
She also sorrowed greatly over it , because , although the king said nothing to her about this trouble , yet she could see that it vexed him that they had no heir to the kingdom ; and she wished every day that she might have one .
One day a poor old woman came to the castle and asked to speak with the queen .
The royal servants answered that they could not let such a poor beggar-woman go in to their royal mistress .
They offered her a penny , and told her to go away .
Then the woman desired them to tell the queen that there stood at the palace gate one who would help her secret sorrow .
This message was taken to the queen , who gave orders to bring the old woman to her .
This was done , and the old woman said to her : ' I know your secret sorrow , O queen , and am come to help you in it .
You wish to have a son ; you shall have two if you follow my instructions . '
The queen was greatly surprised that the old woman knew her secret wish so well , and promised to follow her advice .
` You must have a bath set in your room , O queen , ' said she , ` and filled with running water .
When you have bathed in this you will find .
under the bath two red onions .
These you must carefully peel and eat , and in time your wish will be fulfilled . '
The queen did as the poor woman told her ; and after she had bathed she found the two onions under the bath .
They were both alike in size and appearance .
When she saw these she knew that the woman had been something more than she seemed to be , and in her delight she ate up one of the onions , skin and all .
When she had done so she remembered that the woman had told her to peel them carefully before she ate them .
It was now too late for the one of them , but she peeled the other and then ate it too .
In due time it happened as the woman had said ; but the first that the queen gave birth to was a hideous lindorm , or serpent .
No one saw this but her waiting-woman , who threw it out of the window into the forest beside the castle .
The next that came into the world was the most beautiful little prince , and he was shown to the king and queen , who knew nothing about his brother the lindorm .
There was now joy in all the palace and over the whole country on account of the beautiful prince ; but no one knew that the queen 's first-born was a lindorm , and lay in the wild forest .
Time passed with the king , the queen , and the young prince in all happiness and prosperity , until he was twenty years of his age .
Then his parents said to him that he should journey to another kingdom and seek for himself a bride , for they were beginning to grow old , and would fain see their son married .
before they were laid in their grave .
The prince obeyed , had his horses harnessed to his gilded chariot , and set out to woo his bride .
But when he came to the first cross-ways there lay a huge and terrible lindorm right across the road , so that his horses had to come to a standstill .
` Where are you driving to ? '
asked the lindorm with a hideous voice .
` That does not concern you , ' said the prince . '
I am the prince , and can drive where I please . '
` Turn back , ' said the lindorm . '
I know your errand , but you shall get no bride until I have got a mate and slept by her side . '
The prince turned home again , and told the king and the queen what he had met at the cross-roads ; but they thought that he should try again on the following day , and see whether he could not get past it , so that he might seek a bride in another kingdom .
The prince did so , but got no further than the first cross-roads ; there lay the lindorm again , who stopped him in the same way as before .
The same thing happened on the third day when the prince tried to get past : the lindorm said , with a threatening voice , that before the prince could get a bride he himself must find a mate .
When the king and queen heard this for the third time they could think of no better plan than to invite the lindorm to the palace , and they should find him a mate .
They thought that a lindorm would be quite well satisfied with anyone that they might give him , and so they would get some slave-woman to marry the monster .
The lindorm came to the palace and received a bride of this kind , but in the morning she lay torn in pieces .
So it happened every time that the king and queen compelled any woman to be his bride .
The report of this soon spread over all the country .
Now it happened that there was a man who had married a second time , and his wife heard of the lindorm with great delight .
Her husband had a daughter by his first wife who was more beautiful than all other maidens , and so gentle and good that she won the heart of all who knew her .
His second wife , however , had also a grown-up daughter , who by herself would have been ugly and disagreeable enough , but beside her good and beautiful stepsister seemed still more ugly and wicked , so that all turned from her with loathing .
The stepmother had long been annoyed that her husband 's daughter was so much more beautiful than her own , and in her heart she conceived a bitter hatred for her stepdaughter .
When she now heard that there was in the king 's palace a lindorm which tore in pieces all the women that were married to him , and demanded a beautiful maiden for his bride , she went to the king , and said that her stepdaughter wished to wed the lindorm , so that the country 's only prince might travel and seek a bride .
At this the king was greatly delighted , and gave orders that the young girl should be brought to the palace .
When the messengers came to fetch her she was terribly frightened , for she knew that it was her wicked stepmother who in this way was aiming at her life .
She begged that she might be allowed to spend another night in her father 's house .
This was granted her , and she went to her mother 's grave .
There she lamented her hard fate in being given over to the lindorm , and earnestly prayed her mother for counsel .
How long she lay there by the grave and wept one can not tell , but sure it is that she fell asleep and slept until the sun rose .
Then she rose up from the grave , quite happy at heart , and began to search about in the fields .
There she found three nuts , which she carefully put away in her pocket .
` When I come into very great danger I must break one of these , ' she said to herself .
Then she went home , and set out quite willingly with the king 's messengers .
When these arrived at the palace with the beautiful young maiden everyone pitied her fate ; but she herself was of good courage , and asked the queen for another bridal chamber than the one the lindorm had had before .
She got this , and then she requested them to put a pot full of strong lye on the fire and lay down three new scrubbing brushes .
The queen gave orders that everything should be done as she desired ; and then the maiden dressed herself in seven clean snow-white shirts , and held her wedding with the lindorm .
When they were left alone in the bridal chamber the lindorm , in a threatening voice , ordered her to undress herself .
` Undress yourself first ! '
said she .
` None of the others bade me do that , ' said he in surprise .
` But I bid you , ' said she .
Then the lindorm began to writhe , and groan , and breathe heavily ; and after a little he had cast his outer skin , which lay on the floor , hideous to behold .
Then his bride took off one of her snow-white shirts , and cast it on the lindorm 's skin .
Again he ordered her to undress , and again she commanded him to do so first .
He had to obey , and with groaning and pain cast off one skin after another , and for each skin the maiden threw off one of her shirts , until there lay on the floor seven lindorm skins and six snow-white shirts ; the seventh she still had on .
The lindorm now lay before her as a formless , slimy mass , which she with all her might began to scrub with the lye and new scrubbing brushes .
When she had nearly worn out the last of these there stood before her the loveliest youth in the world .
He thanked her for having saved him from his enchantment , and told her that he was the king and queen 's eldest son , and heir to the kingdom .
Then he asked her whether she would keep the promise she had made to the lindorm , to share everything with him .
To this she was well content to answer ` Yes . '
Each time that the lindorm had held his wedding one of the king 's retainers was sent next morning to open the door of the bridal chamber and see whether the bride was alive .
This next morning also he peeped in at the door , but what he saw there surprised him so much that he shut the door in a hurry , and hastened to the king and queen , who were waiting for his report .
He told them of the wonderful sight he had seen .
On the floor lay seven lindorm skins and six snow-white shirts , and beside these three worn-out scrubbing brushes , while in the bed a beautiful youth was lying asleep beside the fair young maiden .
The king and queen marvelled greatly what this could mean ; but just then the old woman who was spoken of in the beginning of the story was again brought in to the queen .
She reminded her how she had not followed her instructions , but had eaten the first onion with all its skins , on which account her first-born had been a lindorm .
The waiting-woman was then summoned , and admitted that she had thrown it out through the window into the forest .
The king and queen now sent for their eldest son and his young bride .
They took them both in their arms , and asked him to tell about his sorrowful lot during the twenty years he had lived in the forest as a hideous lindorm .
This he did , and then his parents had it proclaimed over the whole country that he was their eldest son , and along with his spouse should inherit the country and kingdom after them .
Prince Lindorm and his beautiful wife now lived in joy and prosperity for a time in the palace ; and when his father was laid in the grave , not long after this , he obtained the whole kingdom .
Soon afterwards his mother also departed from this world .
Now it happened that an enemy declared war against the young king ; and , as he foresaw that it would be three years at the least before he could return to his country and his queen , he ordered all his servants who remained at home to guard her most carefully .
That they might be able to write to each other in confidence , he had two seal rings made , one for himself and one for his young queen , and issued an order that no one , under pain of death , was to open any letter that was sealed with one of these .
Then he took farewell of his queen , and marched out to war .
The queen 's wicked stepmother had heard with great grief that her beautiful stepdaughter had prospered so well that she had not only preserved her life , but had even become queen of the country .
She now plotted continually how she might destroy her good fortune .
While King Lindorm was away at the war the wicked woman came to the queen , and spoke fair to her , saying that she had always foreseen that her stepdaughter was destined to be something great in the world , and that she had on this account secured that she should be the enchanted prince 's bride .
The queen , who did not imagine that any person could be so deceitful , bade her stepmother welcome , and kept her beside her .
Soon after this the queen had two children , the prettiest boys that anyone could see .
When she had written a letter to the king to tell him of this her stepmother asked leave to comb her hair for her , as her own mother used to do .
The queen gave her permission , and the stepmother combed her hair until she fell asleep .
Then she took the seal ring off her neck , and exchanged the letter for another , in which she had written that the queen had given birth to two whelps .
When the king received .
this letter he was greatly distressed , but he remembered how he himself had lived for twenty years as a lindorm , and had been freed from the spell by his young queen .
He therefore wrote back to his most trusted retainer that the queen and her two whelps should be taken care of while he was away .
The stepmother , however , took this letter as well , and wrote a new one , in which the king ordered that the queen and the two little princes should be burnt at the stake .
This she also sealed with the queen 's seal , which was in all respects like the king 's .
The retainer was greatly shocked and grieved at the king 's orders , for which he could discover no reason ; but , as he had not the heart to destroy three innocent beings , he had a great fire kindled , and in this he burned a sheep and two lambs , so as to make people believe that he had carried out the king 's commands .
The stepmother had made these known to the people , adding that the queen was a wicked sorceress .
The faithful servant , however , told the queen that it was the king 's command that during the years he was absent in the war she should keep herself concealed in the castle , so that no one but himself should see her and the little princes .
The queen obeyed , and no one knew but that both she and her children had been burned .
But when the time came near for King Lindorm to return home from the war the old retainer grew frightened because he had not obeyed his orders .
He therefore went to the queen , and told her everything , at the same time showing her the king 's letter containing the command to burn her and the princes .
He then begged her to leave the palace before the king returned .
The queen now took her two little sons , and wandered out into the wild forest .
They walked all day without ending a human habitation , and became very tired .
The queen then caught sight of a man who carried some venison .
He seemed very poor and wretched , but the queen was glad to see a human being , and asked him whether he knew where she and her little children could get a house over their heads for the night .
The man answered that he had a little hut in the forest , and that she could rest there ; but he also said that he was one who lived entirely apart from men , and owned no more than the hut , a horse , and a dog , and supported himself by hunting .
The queen followed him to the hut and rested there overnight with her children , and when she awoke in the morning the man had already gone out hunting .
The queen then began to put the room in order and prepare food , so that when the man came home he found everything neat and tidy , and this seemed to give him some pleasure .
He spoke but little , however , and all that he said about himself was that his name was Peter .
Later in the day he rode out into the forest , and the queen thought that he looked very unhappy .
While he was away she looked about her in the hut a little more closely , and found a tub full of shirts stained with blood , lying among water .
She was surprised at this , but thought that the man would get the blood on his shirt when he was carrying home venison .
She washed the shirts , and hung them up to dry , and said nothing to Peter about the matter .
After some time had passed she noticed that every day he came riding home from the forest he took off a blood-stained shirt and put on a clean one .
She then saw that it was something else than the blood of the deer that stained his shirts , so one day she took courage and asked him about it .
At first he refused to tell her , but she then related to him her own story , and how she had succeeded in delivering the lindorm .
He then told her that he had formerly lived a wild life , and had finally entered into a written contract * with the Evil Spirit .
Before this contract had expired he had repented and turned from his evil ways , and withdrawn himself to this solitude .
The Evil One had then lost all power to take him , but so long as he had the contract he could compel him to meet him in the forest each day at a certain time , where the evil spirits then scourged him till he bled .
Next day , when the time came for the man to ride into the forest , the queen asked him to stay at home and look after the princes , and she would go to meet the evil spirits in his place .
The man was amazed , and said that this would not only cost her her life , but would also bring upon him a greater misfortune than the one he was already under .
She bade him be of good courage , looked to see that she had the three nuts which she had found beside her mother 's grave , mounted her horse , and rode out into the forest .
When she had ridden for some time the evil spirits came forth and said , ` Here comes Peter 's horse and Peter 's hound ; but Peter himself is not with them . '
Then at a distance she heard a terrible voice demanding to know what she wanted . '
I have come to get Peter 's contract , ' said she .
At this there arose a terrible uproar among the evil spirits , and the worst voice among them all said , ` Ride home and tell Peter that when he comes to-morrow he shall get twice as many strokes as usual . '
The queen then took one of her nuts and cracked it , and turned her horse about .
At this sparks of fire flew out of all the trees , and the evil spirits howled as if they were being scourged back to their abode .
Next day at the same time the queen again rode out into the forest ; but on this occasion the spirits did not dare to come so near her .
They would not , however , give up the contract , but threatened both her and the man .
Then she cracked her second nut , and all the forest behind her seemed to be in fire and flames , and the evil spirits howled even worse than on the previous day ; but the contract they would not give up .
The queen had only one nut left now , but even that she was ready to give up in order to deliver the man .
This time she cracked the nut as soon as she came near the place where the spirits appeared , and what then happened to them she could not see , but amid wild screams and howls the contract was handed to her at the end of a long branch .
The queen rode happy home to the hut , and happier still was the man , who had been sitting there in great anxiety , for now he was freed from all the power of the evil spirits .
Meanwhile King Lindorm had come home from the war , and the first question he asked when he entered the palace was about the queen and the whelps .
The attendants were surprised : they knew of no whelps .
The queen had had two beautiful princes ; but the king had sent orders that all these were to be burned .
The king grew pale with sorrow and anger , and ordered them to summon his trusted retainer , to whom he had sent the instructions that the queen and the whelps were to be carefully looked after .
The retainer , however , showed him the letter in which there was written that the queen and her children were to be burned , and everyone then understood that some great treachery had been enacted .
When the king 's trusted retainer saw his master 's deep sorrow he confessed to him that he had spared the lives of the queen and the princes , and had only burned a sheep and two lambs , and had kept the queen and her children hidden in the palace for three years , but had sent her out into the wild forest just when the king was expected home .
When the king heard this his sorrow was lessened , and he said that he would wander out into the forest and search for his wife and children .
If he found them he would return to his palace ; but if he did not find them he would never see it again , and in that case the faithful retainer who had saved the lives of the queen and the princes should be king in his stead .
The king then went forth alone into the wild forest , and wandered there the whole day without seeing a single human being .
So it went with him the second day also , but on the third day he came by roundabout ways to the little hut .
He went in there , and asked for leave to rest himself for a little on the bench .
The queen and the princes were there , but she was poorly clad and so sorrowful that the king did not recognise her , neither did he think for a moment that the two children , who were dressed only in rough skins , were his own sons .
He lay down on the bench , and , tired as he was , he soon fell asleep .
The bench was a narrow one , and as he slept his arm fell down and hung by the side of it .
` My son , go and lift your father 's arm up on the bench , ' said the queen to one of the princes , for she easily knew the king again , although she was afraid to make herself known to him .
The boy went and took the king 's arm , but , being only a child , he did not lift it up very gently on to the bench .
The king woke at this , thinking at first that he had fallen into a den of robbers , but he decided to keep quiet and pretend that he was asleep until he should find out what kind of folk were in the house .
He lay still for a little , and , as no one moved in the room , he again let his arm glide down off the bench .
Then he heard a woman 's voice say , ` My son , go you and lift your father 's arm up on the bench , but do n't do it so rough!y as your brother did . '
Then he felt a pair of little hands softly clasping his arm ; he opened his eyes , and saw his queen and her children .
He sprang up and caught all three in his arms , and afterwards took them , along with the man and his horse and his hound , back to the palace with great joy .
The most unbounded rejoicing reigned there then , as well as over the whole kingdom , but the wicked stepmother was burned .
King Lindorm lived long and happily with his queen , and there are some who say that if they are not dead now they are still living to this day .
The Jackal , the Dove , and the Panther Contes populaires des Bassoutos .
Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet .
Paris : Leroux , Editeur .
There was once a dove who built a nice soft nest as a home for her three little ones .
She was very proud of their beauty , and perhaps talked about them to her neighbours more than she need have done , till at last everybody for miles round knew where the three prettiest baby doves in the whole country-side were to be found .
One day a jackal who was prowling about in search of a dinner came by chance to the foot of the rock where the dove 's nest was hidden away , and he suddenly bethought himself that if he could get nothing better he might manage to make a mouthful of one of the young doves .
So he shouted as loud as he could , ` Ohe , ohe , mother dove . '
And the dove replied , trembling with fear , ` What do you want , sir ? '
` One of your children , ' said he ; ` and if you do n't throw it to me I will eat up you and the others as well . '
Now , the dove was nearly driven distracted at the jackal 's words ; but , in order to save the lives of the other two , she did at last throw the little one out of the nest .
The jackal ate it up , and went home to sleep .
Meanwhile the mother dove sat on the edge of her nest , crying bitterly , when a heron , who was flying slowly past the rock , was filled with pity for her , and stopped to ask , ` What is the matter , you poor dove ? '
And the dove answered , ' A jackal came by , and asked me to give him one of my little ones , and said that if I refused he would jump on my nest and eat us all up . '
But the heron replied , ` You should not have believed him .
He could never have jumped so high .
He only deceived you because he wanted something for supper . '
And with these words the heron flew off .
He had hardly got out of sight when again the jackal came creeping slowly round the foot of the rock .
And when he saw the dove he cried out a second time , ` Ohe , ohe , mother dove !
give me one of your little ones , or I will jump on your nest and eat you all up . '
This time the dove knew better , and she answered boldly , ` Indeed , I shall do nothing of the sort , ' though her heart beat wildly with fear when she saw the jackal preparing for a spring .
However , he only cut himself against the rock , and thought he had better stick to threats , so he started again with his old cry , ` Mother dove , mother dove !
be quick and give me one of your little ones , or I will eat you all up . '
But the mother dove only answered as before , ` Indeed , I shall do nothing of the sort , for I know we are safely out of your reach . '
The jackal felt it was quite hopeless to get what he wanted , and asked , ` Tell me , mother dove , how have you suddenly become so wise ? '
` It was the heron who told me , ' replied she .
` And which way did he go ? '
said the jackal .
` Down there among the reeds .
You can see him if you look , ' said the dove .
Then the jackal nodded good-bye , and went quickly after the heron .
He soon came up to the great bird , who was standing on a stone on the edge of the river watching for a nice fat fish .
` Tell me , heron , ' said he , ` when the wind blows from that quarter , to which side do you turn ? '
` And which side do you turn to ? '
asked the heron .
The jackal answered , ' I always turn to this side . '
` Then that is the side I turn to , ' remarked the heron .
` And when the rain comes from that quarter , which side do you turn to ? '
And the heron replied , ` And which side do you turn to ? '
` Oh , I always turn to this side , ' said the jackal .
` Then that is the side I turn to , ' said the heron .
` And when the rain comes straight down , what do you do ? '
` What do you do yourself ? '
asked the heron . '
I do this , ' answered the jackal . '
I cover my head with my paws . '
` Then that is what I do , ' said the heron . '
I cover my head with my wings , ' and as he spoke he lifted his large wings and spread them completely over his head .
With one bound the jackal had seized him by the neck , and began to shake him .
` Oh , have pity , have pity ! '
cried the heron . '
I never did you any harm . '
` You told the dove how to get the better of me , and I am going to eat you for it . '
` But if you will let me go , ' entreated the heron , ' I will show you the place where the panther has her lair . '
` Then you had better be quick about it , ' said the jackal , holding tight on to the heron until he had pointed out the panther 's den .
` Now you may go , my friend , for there is plenty of food here for me . '
So the jackal came up to the panther , and asked politely , ` Panther , would you like me to look after your children while you are out hunting ? ' '
I should be very much obliged , ' said the panther ; ` but be sure you take care of them .
They always cry all the time that I am away . '
So saying she trotted off , and the jackal marched into the cave , where he found ten little panthers , and instantly ate one up .
By-and-bye the panther returned from hunting , and said to him , ` Jackal , bring out my little ones for their supper . '
The jackal fetched them out one by one till he had brought out nine , and he took the last one and brought it out again , so the whole ten seemed to be there , and the panther was quite satisfied .
Next day she went again to the chase , and the jackal ate up another little panther , so now there were only eight .
In the evening , when she came back , the panther said , ` Jackal , bring out my little ones ! '
And the jackal brought out first one and then another , and the last one he brought out three times , so that the whole ten seemed to be there .
The following day the same thing happened , and the next and the next and the next , till at length there was not even one left , and the rest of the day the jackal busied himself with digging a large hole at the back of the den .
That night , when the panther returned from hunting , she said to him as usual , ` Jackal , bring out my little ones . '
But the jackal replied : ` Bring out your little ones , indeed !
Why , you know as well as I do that you have eaten them all up . '
Of course the panther had not the least idea what the jackal meant by this , and only repeated , ` Jackal , bring out my children . '
As she got no answer she entered the cave , but found no jackal , for he had crawled through the hole he had made and escaped .
And , what was worse , she did not find the little ones either .
Now the panther was not going to let the jackal get off like that , and set off at a trot to catch him .
The jackal , however , had got a good start , and he reached a place where a swarm of bees deposited their honey in the cleft of a rock .
Then he stood still and waited till the panther came up to him : ` Jackal , where are my little ones ? '
she asked .
And the jackal answered : ` They are up there .
It is where I keep school . '
The panther looked about , and then inquired , ` But where ?
I see nothing of them . '
` Come a little this way , ' said the jackal , ` and you will hear how beautifully they sing . '
So the panther drew near the cleft of the rock .
` Do n't you hear them ? '
said the jackal ; ` they are in there , ' and slipped away while the panther was listening to the song of the children .
She was still standing in the same place when a baboon went by .
` What are you doing there , panther ? ' '
I am listening to my children singing .
It is here that the jackal keeps his school . '
Then the baboon seized a stick , and poked it in the cleft of the rock , exclaiming , ` Well , then , I should like to see your children ! '
The bees flew out in a huge swarm , and made furiously for the panther , whom they attacked on all sides , while the baboon soon climbed up out of the way , crying , as he perched himself on the branch of a tree , ' I wish you joy of your children ! '
while from afar the jackal 's voice was heard exclaiming : ` Sting , her well !
do n't let her go ! '
The panther galloped away as if she was mad , and flung herself into the nearest lake , but every time she raised her head , the bees stung her afresh so at last the poor beast was drowned altogether .
The Little Hare Contes populaires des Bassoutos .
Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet .
Paris : Leroux , Editeur .
A long , long way off , in a land where water is very scarce , there lived a man and his wife and several children .
One day the wife said to her husband , ' I am pining to have the liver of a nyamatsane for my dinner .
If you love me as much as you say you do , you will go out and hunt for a nyamatsane , and will kill it and get its liver .
If not , I shall know that your love is not worth having . '
` Bake some bread , ' was all her husband answered , ` then take the crust and put it in this little bag . '
The wife did as she was told , and when she had finished she said to her husband , ` The bag is all ready and quite full . '
` Very well , ' said he , ` and now good-bye ; I am going after the nyamatsane . '
But the nyamatsane was not so easy to find as the woman had hoped .
The husband walked on and on and on without ever seeing one , and every now and then he felt so hungry that he was obliged to eat one of the crusts of bread out of his bag .
At last , when he was ready to drop from fatigue , he found himself on the edge of a great marsh , which bordered on one side the country of the nyamatsanes .
But there were no more nyamatsanes here than anywhere else .
They had all gone on a hunting expedition , as their larder was empty , and the only person left at home was their grandmother , who was so feeble she never went out of the house .
Our friend looked on this as a great piece of luck , and made haste to kill her before the others returned , and to take out her liver , after which he dressed himself in her skin as well as he could .
He had scarcely done this when he heard the noise of the nyamatsanes coming back to their grandmother , for they were very fond of her , and never stayed away from her longer than they could help .
They rushed clattering into the hut , exclaiming , ` We smell human flesh !
Some man is here , ' and began to look about for him ; but they only saw their old grandmother , who answered , in a trembling voice , ` No , my children , no !
What should any man be doing here ? '
The nyamatsanes paid no attention to her , and began to open all the cupboards , and peep under all the beds , crying out all the while , ' A man is here !
a man is here ! '
but they could find nobody , and at length , tired out with their long day 's hunting , they curled themselves up and fell asleep .
Next morning they woke up quite refreshed , and made ready to start on another expedition ; but as they did not feel happy about their grandmother they said to her , ` Grandmother , wo n't you come to-day and feed with us ? '
And they led their grandmother outside , and all of them began hungrily to eat pebbles .
Our friend pretended to do the same , but in reality he slipped the stones into his pouch , and swallowed the crusts of bread instead .
However , as the nyamatsanes did not see this they had no idea that he was not really their grandmother .
When they had eaten a great many pebbles they thought they had done enough for that day , and all went home together and curled themselves up to sleep .
Next morning when they woke they said , ` Let us go and amuse ourselves by jumping over the ditch , ' and every time they cleared it with a bound .
Then they begged their grandmother to jump over it too , end with a tremendous effort she managed to spring right over to the other side .
After this they had no doubt at all of its being their true grandmother , and went off to their hunting , leaving our friend at home in the hut .
As soon as they had gone out of sight our hero made haste to take the liver from the place where he had hid it , threw off the skin of the old nyamatsane , and ran away as hard as he could , only stopping to pick up a very brilliant and polished little stone , which he put in his bag by the side of the liver .
Towards evening the nyamatsanes came back to the hut full of anxiety to know how their grandmother had got on during their absence .
The first thing they saw on entering the door was her skin lying on the floor , and then they knew that they had been deceived , and they said to each other , ` So we were right , after all , and it was human flesh we smelt . '
Then they stooped down to find traces of the man 's footsteps , and when they had got them instantly set out in hot pursuit .
Meanwhile our friend had journeyed many miles , and was beginning to feel quite safe and comfortable , when , happening to look round , he saw in the distance a thick cloud of dust moving rapidly .
His heart stood still within him , and he said to himself , ' I am lost .
It is the nyamatsanes , and they will tear me in pieces , ' and indeed the cloud of dust was drawing near with amazing quickness , and the nyamatsanes almost felt as if they were already devouring him .
Then as a last hope the man took the little stone that he had picked up out of his bag and flung it on the ground .
The moment it touched the soil it became a huge rock , whose steep sides were smooth as glass , and on the top of it our hero hastily seated himself .
It was in vain that the nyamatsanes tried to climb up and reach him ; they slid down again much faster than they had gone up ; and by sunset they were quite worn out , and fell asleep at the foot of the rock .
No sooner had the nyamatsanes tumbled off to sleep than the man stole softly down and fled away as fast as his legs would carry him , and by the time his enemies were awake he was a very long way off .
They sprang quickly to their feet and began to sniff the soil round the rock , in order to discover traces of his footsteps , and they galloped after him with terrific speed .
The chase continued for several days and nights ; several times the nyamatsanes almost reached him , and each time he was saved by his little pebble .
Between his fright and his hurry he was almost dead of exhaustion when he reached his own village , where the nyamatsanes could not follow him , because of their enemies the dogs , which swarmed over all the roads .
So they returned home .
Then our friend staggered into his own hut and called to his wife : ` Ichou !
how tired I am !
Quick , give me something to drink .
Then go and get fuel and light a fire . '
So she did what she was bid , and then her husband took the nyamatsane 's liver from his pouch and said to her , ` There , I have brought you what you wanted , and now you know that I love you truly . '
And the wife answered , ` It is well .
Now go and take out the children , so that I may remain alone in the hut , ' and as she spoke she lifted down an old stone pot and put on the liver to cook .
Her husband watched her for a moment , and then said , ` Be sure you eat it all yourself .
Do not give a scrap to any of the children , but eat every morsel up . '
So the woman took the liver and ate it all herself .
Directly the last mouthful had disappeared she was seized with such violent thirst that she caught up a great pot full of water and drank it at a single draught .
Then , having no more in the house , she ran in next door and said , ` Neighbour , give me , I pray you , something to drink . '
The neighbour gave her a large vessel quite full , and the woman drank it off at a single draught , and held it out for more .
But the neighbour pushed her away , saying , ` No , I shall have none left for my children . '
So the woman went into another house , and drank all the water she could find ; but the more she drank the more thirsty she became .
She wandered in this manner through the whole village till she had drunk every water-pot dry .
Then she rushed off to the nearest spring , and swallowed that , and when she had finished all the springs and wells about she drank up first the river and then a lake .
But by this time she had drunk so much that she could not rise from the ground .
In the evening , when it was time for the animals to have their drink before going to bed , they found the lake quite dry , and they had to make up their minds to be thirsty till the water flowed again and the streams were full .
Even then , for some time , the lake was very dirty , and the lion , as king of the beasts , commanded that no one should drink till it was quite clear again .
But the little hare , who was fond of having his own way , and was very thirsty besides , stole quietly off when all the rest were asleep in their dens , and crept down to the margin of the lake and drank his fill .
Then he smeared the dirty water all over the rabbit 's face and paws , so that it might look as if it were he who had been disobeying Big Lion 's orders .
The next day , as soon as it was light , Big Lion marched straight for the lake , and all the other beasts followed him .
He saw at once that the water had been troubled again , and was very angry .
` Who has been drinking my water ? '
said he ; and the little hare gave a jump , and , pointing to the rabbit , he answered , ` Look there !
it must be he !
Why , there is mud all over his face and paws ! '
The rabbit , frightened out of his wits , tried to deny the fact , exclaiming , ` Oh , no , indeed I never did ; ' but Big Lion would not listen , and commanded them to cane him with a birch rod .
Now the little hare was very much pleased with his cleverness in causing the rabbit to be beaten instead of himself , and went about boasting of it .
At last one of the other animals overheard him , and called out , ` Little hare , little hare !
what is that you are saying ? '
But the little hare hastily replied , ' I only asked you to pass me my stick . '
An hour or two later , thinking that no one was near him , he said to himself again , ` It was really I who drank up the water , but I made them think it was the rabbit . '
But one of the beasts whose ears were longer than the rest caught the words , and went to tell Big Lion about it .
Do you hear what the little hare is saying ? '
So Big Lion sent for the little hare , and asked him what he meant by talking like that .
The little hare saw that there was no use trying to hide it , so he answered pertly , ` It was I who drank the water , but I made them think it was the rabbit . '
Then he turned and ran as fast as he could , with all the other beasts pursuing him .
They were almost up to him when he dashed into a very narrow cleft in the rock , much too small for them to follow ; but in his hurry he had left one of his long ears sticking out , which they just managed to seize .
But pull as hard as they might they could not drag him out of the hole , and at last they gave it up and left him , with his ear very much torn and scratched .
When the last tail was out of sight the little hare crept cautiously out , and the first person he met was the rabbit .
He had plenty of impudence , so he put a bold face on the matter , and said , ` Well , my good rabbit , you see I have had a beating as well as you . '
But the rabbit was still sore and sulky , and he did not care to talk , so he answered , coldly , ` You have treated me very badly .
It was really you who drank that water , and you accused me of having done it . '
` Oh , my good rabbit , never mind that !
I 've got such a wonderful secret to tell you !
Do you know what to do so as to escape death ? '
` No , I do n't . '
` Well , we must begin by digging a hole . '
So they dug a hole , and then the little hare said , ` The next thing is to make a fire in the hole , ' and they set to work to collect wood , and lit quite a large fire .
When it was burning brightly the little hare said to the rabbit , ` Rabbit , my friend , throw me into the fire , and when you hear my fur crackling , and I call `` Itchi , Itchi , '' then be quick and pull me out . '
The rabbit did as he was told , and threw the little hare into the fire ; but no sooner did the little hare begin to feel the heat of the flames than he took some green bay leaves he had plucked for the purpose and held them in the middle of the fire , where they crackled and made a great noise .
Then he called loudly ` Itchi , Itchi !
Rabbit , my friend , be quick , be quick !
Do n't you hear how my skin is crackling ? '
And the rabbit came in a great hurry and pulled him out .
Then the little hare said , ` Now it is your turn ! '
and he threw the rabbit in the fire .
The moment the rabbit felt the flames he cried out ` Itchi , Itchi , I am burning ; pull me out quick , my friend ! '
But the little hare only laughed , and said , ` No , you may stay there !
It is your own fault .
Why were you such a fool as to let yourself be thrown in ?
Did n't you know that fire burns ? '
And in a very few minutes nothing was left of the rabbit but a few bones .
When the fire was quite out the little hare went and picked up one of these bones , and made a flute out of it , and sang this song : Pii , pii , O flute that I love , Pii , pii , rabbits are but little boys .
Pii , pii , he would have burned me if he could ; Pii , pii , but I burned him , and he crackled finely .
When he got tired of going through the world singing this the little hare went back to his friends and entered the service of Big Lion .
One day he said to his master , ` Grandfather , shall I show you a splendid way to kill game ? '
` What is it ? '
asked Big Lion .
` We must dig a ditch , and then you must lie in it and pretend to be dead . '
Big Lion did as he was told , and when he had lain down the little hare got up on a wall blew a trumpet and shouted -- Pii , pii , all you animals come and see , Big Lion is dead , and now peace will be .
Directly they heard this they all came running .
The little hare received them and said , ` Pass on , this way to the lion . '
So they all entered into the Animal Kingdom .
Last of all came the monkey with her baby on her back .
She approached the ditch , and took a blade of grass and tickled Big Lion 's nose , and his nostrils moved in spite of his efforts to keep them still .
Then the monkey cried , ` Come , my baby , climb on my back and let us go .
What sort of a dead body is it that can still feel when it is tickled ? '
And she and her baby went away in a fright .
Then the little hare said to the other beasts , ` Now , shut the gate of the Animal Kingdom . '
And it was shut , and great stones were rolled against it .
When everything was tight closed the little hare turned to Big Lion and said ` Now ! '
and Big Lion bounded out of the ditch and tore the other animals in pieces .
But Big Lion kept all the choice bits for himself , and only gave away the little scraps that he did not care about eating ; and the little hare grew very angry , and determined to have his revenge .
He had long ago found out that Big Lion was very easily taken in ; so he laid his plans accordingly .
He said to him , as if the idea had just come into his head , ` Grandfather , let us build a hut , ' and Big Lion consented .
And when they had driven the stakes into the ground , and had made the walls of the hut , the little hare told Big Lion to climb upon the top while he stayed inside .
When he was ready he called out , ` Now , grandfather , begin , ' and Big Lion passed his rod through the reeds with which the roofs are always covered in that country .
The little hare took it and cried , ` Now it is my turn to pierce them , ' and as he spoke he passed the rod back through the reeds and gave Big Lion 's tail a sharp poke .
` What is pricking me so ? '
asked Big Lion .
` Oh , just a little branch sticking out .
I am going to break it , ' answered the little hare ; but of course he had done it on purpose , as he wanted to fix Big Lion 's tail so firmly to the hut that he would not be able to move .
In a little while he gave another prick , and Big Lion called again , ` What is pricking me so ? '
This time the little hare said to himself , ` He will find out what I am at .
I must try some other plan .
` So he called out , ` Grandfather , you had better put your tongue here , so that the branches shall not touch you . '
Big Lion did as he was bid , and the little hare tied it tightly to the stakes of the wall .
Then he went outside and shouted , ` Grandfather , you can come down now , ' and Big Lion tried , but he could not move an inch .
Then the little hare began quietly to eat Big Lion 's dinner right before his eyes , and paying no attention at all to his growls of rage .
When he had quite done he climbed up on the hut , and , blowing his flute , he chanted ` Pii , pii , fall rain and hail , ' and directly the sky was full of clouds , the thunder roared , and huge hailstones whitened the roof of the hut .
The little hare , who had taken refuge within , called out again , ` Big Lion , be quick and come down and dine with me . '
But there was no answer , not even a growl , for the hailstones had killed Big Lion .
The little hare enjoyed himself vastly for some time , living comfortably in the hut , with plenty of food to eat and no trouble at all in getting it .
But one day a great wind arose , and flung down the Big Lion 's half-dried skin from the roof of the hut .
The little hare bounded with terror at the noise , for he thought Big Lion must have come to life again ; but on discovering what had happened he set about cleaning the skin , and propped the mouth open with sticks so that he could get through .
So , dressed in Big Lion 's skin , the little hare started on his travels .
The first visit he paid was to the hyaenas , who trembled at the sight of him , and whispered to each other , ` How shall we escape from this terrible beast ? '
Meanwhile the little hare did not trouble himself about them , but just asked where the king of the hyaenas lived , and made himself quite at home there .
Every morning each hyaena thought to himself , ` To-day he is certain to eat me ; ' but several days went by , and they were all still alive .
At length , one evening , the little hare , looking round for something to amuse him , noticed a great pot full of boiling water , so he strolled up to one of the hyaenas and said , ` Go and get in . '
The hyaena dared not disobey , and in a few minutes was scalded to death .
Then the little hare went the round of the village , saying to every hyaena he met , ` Go and get into the boiling water , ' so that in a little while there was hardly a male left in the village .
One day all the hyaenas that remained alive went out very early into the fields , leaving only one little daughter at home .
The little hare , thinking he was all alone , came into the enclosure , and , wishing to feel what it was like to be a hare again , threw off Big Lion 's skin , and began to jump and dance , singing -- I am just the little hare , the little hare , the little hare ; I am just the little hare who killed the great hyaenas .
The little hyaena gazed at him in surprise , saying to herself , ` What !
was it really this tiny beast who put to death all our best people ? '
when suddenly a gust of wind rustled the reeds that surrounded the enclosure , and the little hare , in a fright , hastily sprang back into Big Lion 's skin .
When the hyaenas returned to their homes the little hyaena said to her father : ` Father , our tribe has very nearly been swept away , and all this has been the work of a tiny creature dressed in the lion 's skin . '
But her father answered , ` Oh , my dear child , you do n't know what you are talking about . '
She replied , ` Yes , father , it is quite true .
I saw it with my own eyes . '
The father did not know what to think , and told one of his friends , who said , ` To-morrow we had better keep watch ourselves . '
And the next day they hid themselves and waited till the little hare came out of the royal hut .
He walked gaily towards the enclosure , threw off , Big Lion 's skin , and sang and danced as before -- I am just the little hare , the little hare , the little hare , I am just the little hare , who killed the great hyaenas .
That night the two hyaenas told all the rest , saying , ` Do you know that we have allowed ourselves to be trampled on by a wretched creature with nothing of the lion about him but his skin ? '
When supper was being cooked that evening , before they all went to bed , the little hare , looking fierce and terrible in Big Lion 's skin , said as usual to one of the hyaenas ` Go and get into the boiling water . '
But the hyaena never stirred .
There was silence for a moment ; then a hyaena took a stone , and flung it with all his force against the lion 's skin .
The little hare jumped out through the mouth with a single spring , and fled away like lightning , all the hyaenas in full pursuit uttering great cries .
As he turned a corner the little hare cut off both his ears , so that they should not know him , and pretended to be working at a grindstone which lay there .
The hyaenas soon came up to him and said , ` Tell me , friend , have you seen the little hare go by ? '
` No , I have seen no one . '
` Where can he be ? '
said the hyaenas one to another .
` Of course , this creature is quite different , and not at all like the little hare . '
Then they went on their way , but , finding no traces of the little hare , they returned sadly to their village , saying , ` To think we should have allowed ourselves to be swept away by a wretched creature like that ! '
The Sparrow with the Slit Tongue From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen .
A long long time ago , an old couple dwelt in the very heart of a high mountain .
They lived together in peace and harmony , although they were very different in character , the man being good-natured and honest , and the wife being greedy and quarrelsome when anyone came her way that she could possibly quarrel with .
One day the old man was sitting in front of his cottage , as he was very fond of doing , when he saw flying towards him a little sparrow , followed by a big black raven .
The poor little thing was very much frightened and cried out as it flew , and the great bird came behind it terribly fast , flapping its wings and craning its beak , for it was hungry and wanted some dinner .
But as they drew near the old man , he jumped up , and beat back the raven , which mounted , with hoarse screams of disappointment , into the sky , and the little bird , freed from its enemy , nestled into the old man 's hand , and he carried it into the house .
He stroked its feathers , and told it not to be afraid , for it was quite safe ; but as he still felt its heart beating , he put it into a cage , where it soon plucked up courage to twitter and hop about .
The old man was fond of all creatures , and every morning he used to open the cage door , and the sparrow flew happily about until it caught sight of a cat or a rat or some other fierce beast , when it would instantly return to the cage , knowing that there no harm could come to it .
The woman , who was always on the look-out for something to grumble at , grew very jealous of her husband 's affection for the bird , and would gladly have done it some harm had she dared .
At last , one morning her opportunity came .
Her husband had gone to the town some miles away down the mountain , and would not be back for several hours , but before he left he did not forget to open the door of the cage .
The sparrow hopped about as usual , twittering happily , and thinking no evil , and all the while the woman 's brow became blacker and blacker , and at length her fury broke out .
She threw her broom at the bird , who was perched on a bracket high up on the wall .
The broom missed the bird , but knocked down and broke the vase on the bracket , which did not soothe the angry woman .
Then she chased it from place to place , and at last had it safe between her fingers , almost as frightened as on the day that it had made its first entrance into the hut .
By this time the woman was more furious than ever .
If she had dared , she would have killed the sparrow then and there , but as it was she only ventured to slit its tongue .
The bird struggled and piped , but there was no one to hear it , and then , crying out loud with the pain , it flew from the house and was lost in the depths of the forest .
By-and-bye the old man came back , and at once began to ask for his pet .
His wife , who was still in a very bad temper , told him the whole story , and scolded him roundly for being so silly as to make such a fuss over a bird .
But the old man , who was much troubled , declared she was a bad , hard-hearted woman , to have behaved so to a poor harmless bird ; then he left the house , and went into the forest to seek for his pet .
He walked many hours , whistling and calling for it , but it never came , and he went sadly home , resolved to be out with the dawn and never to rest till he had brought the wanderer back .
Day after day he searched and called ; and evening after evening he returned in despair .
At length he gave up hope , and made up his mind that he should see his little friend no more .
One hot summer morning , the old man was walking slowly under the cool shadows of the big trees , and without thinking where he was going , he entered a bamboo thicket .
As the bamboos became thinner , he found himself opposite to a beautiful garden , in the centre of which stood a tiny spick-and-span little house , and out of the house came a lovely maiden , who unlatched the gate and invited him in the most hospitable way to enter and rest .
` Oh , my dear old friend , ' she exclaimed , ` how glad I am you have found me at last !
I am your little sparrow , whose life you saved , and whom you took such care of . '
The old man seized her hands eagerly , but no time was given him to ask any questions , for the maiden drew him into the house , and set food before him , and waited on him herself .
While he was eating , the damsel and her maids took their lutes , and sang and danced to him , and altogether the hours passed so swiftly that the old man never saw that darkness had come , or remembered the scolding he would get from his wife for returning home so late .
Thus , in dancing and singing , and talking over the days when the maiden was a sparrow hopping in and out of her cage , the night passed away , and when the first rays of sun broke through the hedge of bamboo , the old man started up , thanked his hostess for her friendly welcome , and prepared to say farewell . '
I am not going to let you depart like that , ' said she ; ' I have a present for you , which you must take as a sign of my gratitude . '
And as she spoke , her servants brought in two chests , one of them very small , the other large and heavy .
` Now choose which of them you will carry with you . '
So the old man chose the small chest , and hid it under his cloak , and set out on his homeward way .
But as he drew near the house his heart sank a little , for he knew what a fury his wife would be in , and how she would abuse him for his absence .
And it was even worse than he expected .
However , long experience had taught him to let her storm and say nothing , so he lit his pipe and waited till she was tired out .
The woman was still raging , and did not seem likely to stop , when her husband , who by this time had forgotten all about her , drew out the chest from under his cloak , and opened it .
Oh , what a blaze met his eyes !
gold and precious stones were heaped up to the very lid , and lay dancing in he sunlight .
At the sight of these wonders even the scolding tongue ceased , and the woman approached , and took the stones in her hand , setting greedily aside those that were the largest and most costly .
Then her voice softened , and she begged him quite politely to tell her where he had spent his evening , and how he had come by these wonderful riches .
So he told her the whole story , and she listened with amazement , till he came to the choice which had been given him between the two chests .
At this her tongue broke loose again , as she abused him for his folly in taking the little one , and she never rested till her husband had described the exact way which led to the sparrow-princess 's house .
When she had got it into her head , she put on her best clothes and set out at once .
But in her blind haste she often missed the path , and she wandered for several hours before she at length reached the little house .
She walked boldly up to the door and entered the room as if the whole place belonged to her , and quite frightened the poor girl , who was startled at the sight of her old enemy .
However , she concealed her feelings as well as she could , and bade the intruder welcome , placing before her food and wine , hoping that when she had eaten and drunk she might take her leave .
But nothing of the sort .
` You will not let me go without a little present ? '
said the greedy wife , as she saw no signs of one being offered her .
` Of course not , ' replied the girl , and at her orders two chests were brought in , as they had been before .
The old woman instantly seized the bigger , and staggering under the weight of it , disappeared into the forest , hardly waiting even to say good-bye .
It was a long way to her own house , and the chest seemed to grow heavier at every step .
Sometimes she felt as if it would be impossible for her to get on at all , but her greed gave her strength , and at last she arrived at her own door .
She sank down on the threshold , overcome with weariness , but in a moment was on her feet again , fumbling with the lock of the chest .
But by this time night had come , and there was no light in the house , and the woman was in too much hurry to get to her treasures , to go and look for one .
At length , however , the lock gave way , and the lid flew open , when , O horror !
instead of gold and jewels , she saw before her serpents with glittering eyes and forky tongues .
And they twined themselves about her and darted poison into her veins , and she died , and no man regretted her .
The Story of Ciccu From Sicilianische Mahrchen .
Once upon a time there lived a man who had three sons .
The eldest was called Peppe , the second Alfin , and the youngest Ciccu .
They were all very poor , and at last things got so bad that they really had not enough to eat .
So the father called his sons , and said to them , ' My dear boys , I am too old to work any more , and there is nothing left for me but to beg in the streets . '
` No , no ! '
exclaimed his sons ; ` that you shall never do .
Rather , if it must be , would we do it ourselves .
But we have thought of a better plan than that . '
` What is it ? '
asked the father .
` Well , we will take you in the forest , where you shall cut wood , and then we will bind it up in bundles and sell it in the town . '
So their father let them do as they said , and they all made their way into the forest ; and as the old man was weak from lack of food his sons took it in turns to carry him on their backs .
Then they built a little hut where they might take shelter , and set to work .
Every morning early the father cut his sticks , and the sons bound them in bundles , and carried them to the town , bringing back the food the old man so much needed .
Some months passed in this way , and then the father suddenly fell ill , and knew that the time had come when he must die .
He bade his sons fetch a lawyer , so that he might make his will , and when the man arrived he explained his wishes . '
I have , ' said he , ' a little house in the village , and over it grows a fig-tree .
The house I leave to my sons , who are to live in it together ; the fig-tree I divide as follows .
To my son Peppe I leave the branches .
To my son Alfin I leave the trunk .
To my son Ciccu I leave the fruit .
Besides the house and tree , I have an old coverlet , which I leave to my eldest son .
And an old purse , which I leave to my second son .
And a horn , which I leave to my youngest son .
And now farewell . '
Thus speaking , he laid himself down , and died quietly .
The brothers wept bitterly for their father , whom they loved , and when they had buried him they began to talk over their future lives .
` What shall we do now ? '
said they .
` Shall we live in the wood , or go back to the village ? '
And they made up their minds to stay where they were and continue to earn their living by selling firewood .
One very hot evening , after they had been working hard all day , they fell asleep under a tree in front of the hut .
And as they slept there came by three fairies , who stopped to look at them .
` What fine fellows ! '
said one .
` Let us give them a present . '
` Yes , what shall it be ? '
asked another .
` This youth has a coverlet over him , ' said the first fairy .
` When he wraps it round him , and wishes himself in any place , he will find himself there in an instant . '
Then said the second fairy : ` This youth has a purse in his hand .
I will promise that it shall always give him as much gold as he asks for . '
Last came the turn of the third fairy .
` This one has a horn slung round him .
When he blows at the small end the seas shall be covered with ships .
And if he blows at the wide end they shall all be sunk in the waves . '
So they vanished , without knowing that Ciccu had been awake and heard all they said .
The next day , when they were all cutting wood , he said to his brothers , ` That old coverlet and the purse are no use to you ; I wish you would give them to me .
I have a fancy for them , for the sake of old times . '
Now Peppe and Alfin were very fond of Ciccu , and never refused him anything , so they let him have the coverlet and the purse without a word .
When he had got them safely Ciccu went on , ` Dear brothers , I am tired of the forest .
I want to live in the town , and work at some trade . ' '
O Ciccu !
stay with us , ' they cried .
` We are very happy here ; and who knows how we shall get on elsewhere ? '
` We can always try , ' answered Ciccu ; ` and if times are bad we can come back here and take up wood-cutting . '
So saying he picked up his bundle of sticks , and his brothers did the same .
But when they reached the town they found that the market was overstocked with firewood , and they did not sell enough to buy themselves a dinner , far less to get any food to carry home .
They were wondering sadly what they should do when Ciccu said , ` Come with me to the inn and let us have something to eat . '
They were so hungry by this time that they did not care much whether they paid for it or not , so they followed Ciccu , who gave his orders to the host .
` Bring us three dishes , the nicest that you have , and a good bottle of wine . '
` Ciccu !
Ciccu ! '
whispered his brothers , horrified at this extravagance , ` are you mad ?
How do you ever mean to pay for it ? '
` Let me alone , ' replied Ciccu ; ' I know what I am about . '
And when they had finished their dinner Ciccu told the others to go on , and he would wait to pay the bill .
The brothers hurried on , without needing to be told twice , ` for , ' thought they , ` he has no money , and of course there will be a row . '
When they were out of sight Ciccu asked the landlord how much he owed , and then said to his purse , ` Dear purse , give me , I pray you , six florins , ' and instantly six florins were in the purse .
Then he paid the bill and joined his brothers .
` How did you manage ? '
they asked .
` Never you mind , ' answered he . '
I have paid every penny , ' and no more would he say .
But the other two were very uneasy , for they felt sure something must be wrong , and the sooner they parted company with Ciccu the better .
Ciccu understood what they were thinking , and , drawing forty gold pieces from his pocket , he held out twenty to each , saying , ` Take these and turn them to good account .
I am going away to seek my own fortune . '
Then he embraced them , and struck down another road .
He wandered on for many days , till at length he came to the town where the king had his court .
The first thing Ciccu did was to order himself some fine clothes , and then buy a grand house , just opposite the palace .
Next he locked his door , and ordered a shower of gold to cover the staircase , and when this was done , the door was flung wide open , and everyone came and peeped at the shining golden stairs .
Lastly the rumour of these wonders reached the ears of the king , who left his palace to behold these splendours with his own eyes .
And Ciccu received him with all respect , and showed him over the house .
When the king went home he told such stories of what he had seen that his wife and daughter declared that they must go and see them too .
So the king sent to ask Ciccu 's leave , and Ciccu answered that if the queen and the princess would be pleased to do him such great honour he would show them anything they wished .
Now the princess was as beautiful as the sun , and when Ciccu looked upon her his heart went out to her , and he longed to have her to wife .
The princess saw what was passing in his mind , and how she could make use of it to satisfy her curiosity as to the golden stairs ; so she praised him and flattered him , and put cunning questions , till at length Ciccu 's head was quite turned , and he told her the whole story of the fairies and their gifts .
Then she begged him to lend her the purse for a few days , so that she could have one made like it , and so great was the love he had for her that he gave it to her at once .
The princess returned to the palace , taking with her the purse , which she had not the smallest intention of ever restoring to Ciccu .
Very soon Ciccu had spent all the money he had by him , and could get no more without the help of his purse .
Of course , he went at once to the king 's daughter , and asked her if she had done with it , but she put him off with some excuse , and told him to come back next day .
The next day it was the same thing , and the next , till a great rage filled Ciccu 's heart instead of the love that had been there .
And when night came he took in his hand a thick stick , wrapped himself in the coverlet , and wished himself in the chamber of the princess .
The princess was asleep , but Ciccu seized her arm and pulled her out of bed , and beat her till she gave back the purse .
Then he took up the coverlet , and wished he was safe in his own house .
No sooner had he gone than the princess hastened to her father and complained of her sufferings .
Then the king rose up in a fury , and commanded Ciccu to be brought before him .
` You richly deserve death , ' said he , ` but I will allow you to live if you will instantly hand over to me the coverlet , the purse , and the horn . '
What could Ciccu do ?
Life was sweet , and he was in the power of the king ; so he gave up silently his ill-gotten goods , and was as poor as when he was a boy .
While he was wondering how he was to live it suddenly came into his mind that this was the season for the figs to ripen , and he said to himself , ' I will go and see if the tree has borne well . '
So he set off home , where his brothers still lived , and found them living very uncomfortably , for they had spent all their money , and did not know how to make any more .
However , he was pleased to see that the fig-tree looked in splendid condition , and was full of fruit .
He ran and fetched a basket , and was just feeling the figs , to make sure which of them were ripe , when his brother Peppe called to him , ` Stop !
The figs of course are yours , but the branches they grow on are mine , and I forbid you to touch them . '
Ciccu did not answer , but set a ladder against the tree , so that he could reach the topmost branches , and had his foot already on the first rung when he heard the voice of his brother Alfin : ` Stop !
the trunk belongs to me , and I forbid you to touch it ! '
Then they began to quarrel violently , and there seemed no chance that they would ever cease , till one of them said , ` Let us go before a judge . '
The others agreed , and when they had found a man whom they could trust Ciccu told him the whole story .
` This is my verdict , ' said the judge .
` The figs in truth belong to you , but you can not pluck them without touching both the trunk and the branches .
Therefore you must give your first basketful to your brother Peppe , as the price of his leave to put your ladder against the tree ; and the second basketful to your brother Alfin , for leave to shake his boughs .
The rest you can keep for yourself . '
And the brothers were contented , and returned home , saying one to the other , ` We will each of us send a basket of figs to the king .
Perhaps he will give us something in return , and if he does we will divide it faithfully between us . '
So the best figs were carefully packed in a basket , and Peppe set out with it to the castle .
On the road he met a little old man who stopped and said to him , ` What have you got there , my fine fellow ? '
` What is that to you ? '
was the answer ; ` mind your own business . '
But the old man only repeated his question , and Peppe , to get rid of him , exclaimed in anger , ` Dirt . '
` Good , ' replied the old man ; ` dirt you have said , and dirt let it be . '
Peppe only tossed his head and went on his way till he got to the castle , where he knocked at the door . '
I have a basket of lovely figs for the king , ' he said to the servant who opened it , ` if his majesty will be graciously pleased to accept them with my humble duty . '
The king loved figs , and ordered Peppe to be admitted to his presence , and a silver dish to be brought on which to put the figs .
When Peppe uncovered his basket sure enough a layer of beautiful purple figs met the king 's eyes , but underneath there was nothing but dirt .
` How dare you play me such a trick ? '
shrieked the king in a rage .
` Take him away , and give him fifty lashes . '
This was done , and Peppe returned home , sore and angry , but determined to say nothing about his adventure .
And when his brothers asked him what had happened he only answered , ` When we have all three been I will tell you . '
A few days after this more figs were ready for plucking , and Alfin in his turn set out for the palace .
He had not gone far down the road before he met the old man , who asked him what he had in his basket .
` Horns , ' answered Alfin , shortly .
` Good , ' replied the old man ; ` horns you have said , and horns let it be . '
When Alfin reached the castle he knocked at the door and said to the servant : ` Here is a basket of lovely figs , if his majesty will be good enough to accept them with my humble duty . '
The king commanded that Alfin should be admitted to his presence , and a silver dish to be brought on which to lay the figs .
When the basket was uncovered some beautiful purple figs lay on the top , but underneath there was nothing but horns .
Then the king was beside himself with passion , and screamed out , ` Is this a plot to mock me ?
Take him away , and give him a hundred and fifty lashes ! '
So Alfin went sadly home , but would not tell anything about his adventures , only saying grimly , ` Now it is Ciccu 's turn . '
Ciccu had to wait a little before he gathered the last figs on the tree , and these were not nearly so good as the first set .
However , he plucked them , as they had agreed , and set out for the king 's palace .
The old man was still on the road , and he came up and said to Ciccu , ` What have you got in that basket ? '
` Figs for the king , ' answered he .
` Let me have a peep , ' and Ciccu lifted the lid .
` Oh , do give me one , I am so fond of figs , ' begged the little man . '
I am afraid if I do that the hole will show , ' replied Ciccu , but as he was very good-natured he gave him one .
The old man ate it greedily and kept the stalk in his hand , and then asked for another and another and another till he had eaten half the basketful .
` But there are not enough left to take to the king , ' murmured Ciccu .
` Do n't be anxious , ' said the old man , throwing the stalks back into the basket ; ` just go on and carry the basket to the castle , and it will bring you luck . '
Ciccu did not much like it ; however he went on his way , and with a trembling heart rang the castle bell .
` Here are some lovely figs for the king , ' said he , ` if his majesty will graciously accept them with my humble duty . '
When the king was told that there was another man with a basket of figs he cried out , ` Oh , have him in , have him in !
I suppose it is a wager ! '
But Ciccu uncovered the basket , and there lay a pile of beautiful ripe figs .
And the king was delighted , and emptied them himself on the silver dish , and gave five florins to Ciccu , and offered besides to take him into his service .
Ciccu accepted gratefully , but said he must first return home and give the five florins to his brothers .
When he got home Peppe spoke : ` Now we will see what we each have got from the king .
I myself received from him fifty lashes . '
` And I a hundred and fifty , ' added Alfin .
` And I five florins and some sweets , which you can divide between you , for the king has taken me into his service . '
Then Ciccu went back to the Court and served the king , and the king loved him .
The other two brothers heard that Ciccu had become quite an important person , and they grew envious , and thought how they could put him to shame .
At last they came to the king and said to him , ' O king !
your palace is beautiful indeed , but to be worthy of you it lacks one thing -- the sword of the Man-eater . '
` How can I get it ? '
asked the king .
` Oh , Ciccu can get it for you ; ask him . '
So the king sent for Ciccu and said to him , ` Ciccu , you must at any price manage to get the sword of the Man-eater . '
Ciccu was very much surprised at this sudden command , and he walked thoughtfully away to the stables and began to stroke his favourite horse , saying to himself , ` Ah , my pet , we must bid each other good-bye , for the king has sent me away to get the sword of the Maneater . '
Now this horse was not like other horses , for it was a talking horse , and knew a great deal about many things , so it answered , ` Fear nothing , and do as I tell you .
Beg the king to give you fifty gold pieces and leave to ride me , and the rest will be easy . '
Ciccu believed what the horse said , and prayed the king to grant him what he asked .
Then the two friends set out , but the horse chose what roads he pleased , and directed Ciccu in everything .
It took them many days ' hard riding before they reached the country where the Man-eater lived , and then the horse told Ciccu to stop a group of old women who were coming chattering through the wood , and offer them each a shilling if they would collect a number of mosquitos and tie them up in a bag .
When the bag was full Ciccu put it on his shoulder and stole into the house of the Man-eater -LRB- who had gone to look for his dinner -RRB- and let them all out in his bedroom .
He himself hid carefully under the bed and waited .
The Man-eater came in late , very tired with his long walk , and flung himself on the bed , placing his sword with its shining blade by his side .
Scarcely had he lain down than the mosquitos began to buzz about and bite him , and he rolled from side to side trying to catch them , which he never could do , though they always seemed to be close to his nose .
He was so busy over the mosquitos that he did not hear Ciccu steal softly out , or see him catch up the sword .
But the horse heard and stood ready at the door , and as Ciccu came flying down the stairs and jumped on his back he sped away like the wind , and never stopped till they arrived at the king 's palace .
The king had suffered much pain in his absence , thinking that if the Man-eater ate Ciccu , it would be all his fault .
And he was so overjoyed to have him safe that he almost forgot the sword which he had sent him to bring .
But the two brothers did not love Ciccu any better because he had succeeded when they hoped he would have failed , and one day they spoke to the king .
` It is all very well for Ciccu to have got possession of the sword , but it would have been far more to your majesty 's honour if he had captured the Man-eater himself . '
The king thought upon these words , and at last he said to Ciccu , ` Ciccu , I shall never rest until you bring me back the Man-eater himself .
You may have any help you like , but somehow or other you must manage to do it . '
Ciccu felt very much cast , down at these words , and went to the stable to ask advice of his friend the horse .
` Fear nothing , ' said the horse ; ` just say you want me and fifty pieces of gold . '
Ciccu did as he was bid , and the two set out together .
When they reached the country of the Man-eater , Ciccu made all the church bells toll and a proclamation to be made .
` Ciccu , the servant of the king , is dead . '
The Man-eater soon heard what everyone was saying , and was glad in his heart , for he thought , ` Well , it is good news that the thief who stole my sword is dead . '
But Ciccu bought an axe and a saw , and cut down a pine tree in the nearest wood , and began to hew it into planks .
` What are you doing in my wood ? '
asked the Maneater , coming up .
` Noble lord , ' answered Ciccu , ' I am making a coffin for the body of Ciccu , who is dead . '
` Do n't be in a hurry , ' answered the Man-eater , who of course did not know whom he was talking to , ` and perhaps I can help you ; ' and they set to work sawing and fitting , and very soon the coffin was finished .
Then Ciccu scratched his ear thoughtfully , and cried , ` Idiot that I am !
I never took any measures .
How am I to know if it is big enough ?
But now I come to think of it , Ciccu was about your size .
I wonder if you would be so good as just to put yourself in the coffin , and see if there is enough room . '
` Oh , delighted ! '
said the Man-eater , and laid himself at full length in the coffin .
Ciccu clapped on the lid , put a strong cord round it , tied it fast on his horse , and rode back to the king .
And when the king saw that he really had brought back the Man-eater , he commanded a huge iron chest to be brought , and locked the coffin up inside .
Just about this time the queen died , and soon after the king thought he should like to marry again .
He sought everywhere , but he could not hear of any princess that took his fancy .
Then the two envious brothers came to him and said , ' O king !
there is but one woman that is worthy of being your wife , and that is she who is the fairest in the whole world . '
` But where can I find her ? '
asked the king ` Oh , Ciccu will know , and he will bring her to you . '
Now the king had got so used to depending on Ciccu , that he really believed he could do everything .
So he sent for him and said , ` Ciccu , unless within eight days you bring me the fairest in the whole world , I will have you hewn into a thousand pieces . '
This mission seemed to Ciccu a hundred times worse than either of the others , and with tears in his eyes he took his way to the stables .
` Cheer up , ' laughed the horse ; ` tell the king you must have some bread and honey , and a purse of gold , and leave the rest to me . '
Ciccu did as he was bid , and they started at a gallop .
After they had ridden some way , they saw a swarm of bees lying on the ground , so hungry and weak that they were unable to fly .
` Get down , and give the poor things some honey , ' said the horse , and Ciccu dismounted .
By-and-bye they came to a stream , on the bank of which was a fish , flapping feebly about in its efforts to reach the water .
` Jump down , and throw the fish into the water ; he will be useful to us , ' and Ciccu did so .
Farther along the hillside they saw an eagle whose leg was caught in a snare .
` Go and free that eagle from the snare ; he will be useful to us ; ' and in a moment the eagle was soaring up into the sky .
At length they came to the castle where the fairest in the world lived with her parents .
Then said the horse , ` You must get down and sit upon that stone , for I must enter the castle alone .
Directly you see me come tearing by with the princess on my back , jump up behind , and hold her tight , so that she does not escape you .
If you fail to do this , we are both lost . '
Ciccu seated himself on the stone , and the horse went on to the courtyard of the castle , where he began to trot round in a graceful and elegant manner .
Soon a crowd collected first to watch him and then to pat him , and the king and queen and princess came with the rest .
The eyes of the fairest in the world brightened as she looked , and she sprang on the horse 's saddle , crying , ` Oh , I really must ride him a little ! '
But the horse made one bound forward , and the princess was forced to hold tight by his mane , lest she should fall off .
And as they dashed past the stone where Ciccu was waiting for them , he swung himself up and held her round the waist .
As he put his arms round her waist , the fairest in the world unwound the veil from her head and cast it to the ground , and then she drew a ring from her finger and flung it into the stream .
But she said nothing , and they rode on fast , fast .
The king of Ciccu 's country was watching for them from the top of a tower , and when he saw in the distance a cloud of dust , he ran down to the steps so as to be ready to receive them .
Bowing low before the fairest in the world , he spoke : ` Noble lady , will you do me the honour to become my wife ? '
But she answered , ` That can only be when Ciccu brings me the veil that I let fall on my way here . '
And the king turned to Ciccu and said , ` Ciccu , if you do not find the veil at once , you shall lose your head . '
Ciccu , who by this time had hoped for a little peace , felt his heart sink at this fresh errand , and he went into the stable to complain to the faithful horse .
` It will be all right , ' answered the horse when he had heard his tale ; ` just take enough food for the day for both of us , and then get on my back . '
They rode back all the way they had come till they reached the place where they had found the eagle caught in the snare ; then the horse bade Ciccu to call three times on the king of the birds , and when he replied , to beg him to fetch the veil which the fairest in the world had let fall .
` Wait a moment , ' answered a voice that seemed to come from somewhere very high up indeed .
` An eagle is playing with it just now , but he will be here with it in an instant ; ' and a few minutes after there was a sound of wings , and an eagle came fluttering towards them with the veil in his beak .
And Ciccu saw it was the very same eagle that he had freed from the snare .
So he took the veil and rode back to the king .
Now the king was enchanted to see him so soon , and took the veil from Ciccu and flung it over the princess , crying , ` Here is the veil you asked for , so I claim you for my wife . '
` Not so fast , ' answered she . '
I can never be your wife till Ciccu puts on my finger the ring I threw into the stream .
Ciccu , who was standing by expecting something of the sort , bowed his head when he heard her words , and went straight to the horse .
` Mount at once , ' said the horse ; ` this time it is very simple , ' and he carried Ciccu to the banks of the little stream .
` Now , call three times on the emperor of the fishes , and beg him to restore you the ring that the princess dropped .
Ciccu did as the horse told him , and a voice was heard in answer that seemed to come from a very long way off .
` What is your will ? '
it asked ; and Ciccu replied that he had been commanded to bring back the ring that the princess had flung away , as she rode past . '
A fish is playing with it just now , ' replied the voice ; ` however , you shall have it without delay . '
And sure enough , very soon a little fish was seen rising to the surface with the lost ring in his mouth .
And Ciccu knew him to be the fish that he had saved from death , and he took the ring and rode back with it to the king .
` That is not enough , ' exclaimed the princess when she saw the ring ; ` before we can be man and wife , the oven must be heated for three days and three nights , and Ciccu must jump in . '
And the king forgot how Ciccu had served him , and desired him to do as the princess had said .
This time Ciccu felt that no escape was possible , and he went to the horse and laid his hand on his neck .
` Now it is indeed good-bye , and there is no help to be got even from you , ' and he told him what fate awaited him .
But the horse said , ` Oh , never lose heart , but jump on my back , and make me go till the foam flies in flecks all about me .
Then get down , and scrape off the foam with a knife .
This you must rub all over you , and when you are quite covered , you may suffer yourself to be cast into the oven , for the fire will not hurt you , nor anything else . '
And Ciccu did exactly as the horse bade him , and went back to the king , and before the eyes of the fairest in the world he sprang into the oven .
And when the fairest in the world saw what he had done , love entered into her heart , and she said to the king , ` One thing more : before I can be your wife , you must jump into the oven as Ciccu has done . '
` Willingly , ' replied the king , stooping over the oven .
But on the brink he paused a moment and called to Ciccu , ` Tell me , Ciccu , how did you manage to prevent the fire burning you ? '
Now Ciccu could not forgive his master , whom he had served so faithfully , for sending him to his death without a thought , so he answered , ' I rubbed myself over with fat , and I am not even singed . '
When he heard these words , the king , whose head was full of the princess , never stopped to inquire if they could be true , and smeared himself over with fat , and sprang into the oven .
And in a moment the fire caught him , and he was burned up .
Then the fairest in the world held out her hand to Ciccu and smiled , saying , ` Now we will be man and wife . '
So Ciccu married the fairest in the world , and became king of the country .
Don Giovanni De La Fortuna Sicilianische Mahrchen There was once a man whose name was Don Giovanni de la Fortuna , and he lived in a beautiful house that his father had built , and spent a great deal of money .
Indeed , he spent so much that very soon there was none left , and Don Giovanni , instead of being a rich man with everything he could wish for , was forced to put on the dress of a pilgrim , and to wander from place to place begging his bread .
One day he was walking down a broad road when he was stopped by a handsome man he had never seen before , who , little as Don Giovanni knew it , was the devil himself .
` Would you like to be rich , ' asked the devil , ` and to lead a pleasant life ? '
` Yes , of course I should , ' replied the Don .
` Well , here is a purse ; take it and say to it , `` Dear purse , give me some money , '' and you will get as much as you can want But the charm will only work if you promise to remain three years , three months , and three days without washing and without combing and without shaving your beard or changing your clothes .
If you do all this faithfully , when the time is up you shall keep the purse for yourself , and I will let you off any other conditions . '
Now Don Giovanni was a man who never troubled his head about the future .
He did not once think how very uncomfortable he should be all those three years , but only that he should be able , by means of the purse , to have all sorts of things he had been obliged to do without ; so he joyfully put the purse in his pocket and went on his way .
He soon began to ask for money for the mere pleasure of it , and there was always as much as he needed .
For a little while he even forgot to notice how dirty he was getting , but this did not last long , for his hair became matted with dirt and hung over his eyes , and his pilgrim 's dress was a mass of horrible rags and tatters .
He was in this state when , one morning , he happened to be passing a fine palace ; and , as the sun was shining bright and warm , he sat down on the steps and tried to shake off some of the dust which he had picked up on the road .
But in a few minutes a maid saw him , and said to her master , ' I pray you , sir , to drive away that beggar who is sitting on the steps , or he will fill the whole house with his dirt . '
So the master went out and called from some distance off , for he was really afraid to go near the man , ` You filthy beggar , leave my house at once ! '
` You need not be so rude , ' said Don Giovanni ; ' I am not a beggar , and if I chose I could force you and your wife to leave your house . '
` What is that you can do ? '
laughed the gentleman .
` Will you sell me your house ? '
asked Don Giovanni . '
I will buy it from you on the spot . '
` Oh , the dirty creature is quite mad ! '
thought the gentleman . '
I shall just accept his offer for a joke . '
And aloud he said : ' All right ; follow me , and we will go to a lawyer and get him to make a contract . '
And Don Giovanni followed him , and an agreement was drawn up by which the house was to be sold at once , and a large sum of money paid down in eight days .
Then the Don went to an inn , where he hired two rooms , and , standing in one of them , said to his purse , ' Dear purse , fill this room with gold ; ' and when the eight days were up it was so full you could not have put in another sovereign .
When the owner of the house came to take away his money Don Giovanni led him into the room and said : ` There , just pocket what you want . '
The gentleman stared with open mouth at the astonishing sight ; but he had given his word to sell the house , so he took his money , as he was told , and went away with his wife to look for some place to live in .
And Don Giovanni left the inn and dwelt in the beautiful rooms , where his rags and dirt looked sadly out of place .
And every day these got worse and worse .
By-and-bye the fame of his riches reached the ears of the king , and , as he himself was always in need of money , he sent for Don Giovanni , as he wished to borrow a large sum .
Don Giovanni readily agreed to lend him what he wanted , and sent next day a huge waggon laden with sacks of gold .
` Who can he be ? '
thought the king to himself .
` Why , he is much richer than I ! '
The king took as much as he had need of ; then ordered the rest to be returned to Don Giovanni , who refused to receive it , saying , ` Tell his majesty I am much hurt at his proposal .
I shall certainly not take back that handful of gold , and , if he declines to accept it , keep it yourself . '
The servant departed and delivered the message , and the king wondered more than ever how anyone could be so rich .
At last he spoke to the queen : ` Dear wife , this man has done me a great service , and has , besides , behaved like a gentleman in not allowing me to send back the money .
I wish to give him the hand of our eldest daughter . '
The queen was quite pleased at this idea , and again messenger was sent to Don Giovanni , offering him the hand of the eldest princess .
` His majesty is too good , ' he replied . '
I can only humbly accept the honour . '
The messenger took back this answer , but a second time returned with the request that Don Giovanni would present them with his picture , so that they might know what sort of a person to expect .
But when it came , and the princess saw the horrible figure , she screamed out , ` What !
marry this dirty beggar ?
Never , never ! '
` Ah , child , ' answered the king , ` how could I ever guess that the rich Don Giovanni would ever look like that ?
But I have passed my royal word , and I can not break it , so there is no help for you . '
` No , father ; you may cut off my head , if you choose , but marry that horrible beggar -- I never will ! '
And the queen took her part , and reproached her husband bitterly for wishing his daughter to marry a creature like that .
Then the youngest daughter spoke : ` Dear father , do not look so sad .
As you have given your word , I will marry Don Giovanni . '
The king fell on her neck , and thanked her and kissed her , but the queen and the elder girl had nothing for her but laughs and jeers .
So it was settled , and then the king bade one of his lords go to Don Giovanni and ask him when the wedding day was to be , so that the princess might make ready .
` Let it be in two months , ' answered Don Giovanni , for the time was nearly up that the devil had fixed , and he wanted a whole month to himself to wash off the dirt of the past three years .
The very minute that the compact with the devil had come to an end his beard was shaved , his hair was cut , and his rags were burned , and day and night he lay in a bath of clear warm water .
At length he felt he was clean again , and he put on splendid clothes , and hired a beautiful ship , and arrived in state at the king 's palace .
The whole of the royal family came down to the ship to receive him , and the whole way the queen and the elder princess teased the sister about the dirty husband she was going to have .
But when they saw how handsome he really was their hearts were filled with envy and anger , so that their eyes were blinded , and they fell over into the sea and were drowned .
And the youngest daughter rejoiced in the good luck that had come to her , and they had a splendid wedding when the days of mourning for her mother and sister were ended .
Soon after the old king died , and Don Giovanni became king .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Red_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES I ONCE upon a time there lived in the village of Montignies-sur-Roc a little cow-boy , without either father or mother .
His real name was Michael , but he was always called the Star Gazer , because when he drove his cows over the commons to seek for pasture , he went along with his head in the air , gaping at nothing .
As he had a white skin , blue eyes , and hair that curled all over his head , the village girls used to cry after him , ` Well , Star Gazer , what are you doing ? '
and Michael would answer , ` Oh , nothing , ' and go on his way without even turning to look at them .
The fact was he thought them very ugly , with their sun-burnt necks , their great red hands , their coarse petticoats and their wooden shoes .
He had heard that somewhere in the world there were girls whose necks were white and whose hands were small , who were always dressed in the finest silks and laces , and were called princesses , and while his companions round the fire saw nothing in the flames but common everyday fancies , he dreamed that he had the happiness to marry a princess .
II One morning about the middle of August , just at mid-day when the sun was hottest , Michael ate his dinner of a piece of dry bread , and went to sleep under an oak .
And while he slept he dreamt that there appeared before him a beautiful lady , dressed in a robe of cloth of gold , who said to him : ` Go to the castle of Beloeil , and there you shall marry a princess . '
That evening the little cow-boy , who had been thinking a great deal about the advice of the lady in the golden dress , told his dream to the farm people .
But , as was natural , they only laughed at the Star Gazer .
The next day at the same hour he went to sleep again under the same tree .
The lady appeared to him a second time , and said : ` Go to the castle of Beloeil , and you shall marry a princess . '
In the evening Michael told his friends that he had dreamed the same dream again , but they only laughed at him more than before .
` Never mind , ' he thought to himself ; ` if the lady appears to me a third time , I will do as she tells me . '
The following day , to the great astonishment of all the village , about two o'clock in the afternoon a voice was heard singing : ` Raleo , raleo , How the cattle go ! '
It was the little cow-boy driving his herd back to the byre .
The farmer began to scold him furiously , but he answered quietly , ' I am going away , ' made his clothes into a bundle , said good-bye to all his friends , and boldly set out to seek his fortunes .
There was great excitement through all the village , and on the top of the hill the people stood holding their sides with laughing , as they watched the Star Gazer trudging bravely along the valley with his bundle at the end of his stick .
It was enough to make anyone laugh , certainly .
III It was well known for full twenty miles round that there lived in the castle of Beloeil twelve princesses of wonderful beauty , and as proud as they were beautiful , and who were besides so very sensitive and of such truly royal blood , that they would have felt at once the presence of a pea in their beds , even if the mattresses had been laid over it .
It was whispered about that they led exactly the lives that princesses ought to lead , sleeping far into the morning , and never getting up till mid-day .
They had twelve beds all in the same room , but what was very extraordinary was the fact that though they were locked in by triple bolts , every morning their satin shoes were found worn into holes .
When they were asked what they had been doing all night , they always answered that they had been asleep ; and , indeed , no noise was ever heard in the room , yet the shoes could not wear themselves out alone !
At last the Duke of Beloeil ordered the trumpet to be sounded , and a proclamation to be made that whoever could discover how his daughters wore out their shoes should choose one of them for his wife .
On hearing the proclamation a number of princes arrived at the castle to try their luck .
They watched all night behind the open door of the princesses , but when the morning came they had all disappeared , and no one could tell what had become of them .
IV When he reached the castle , Michael went straight to the gardener and offered his services .
Now it happened that the garden boy had just been sent away , and though the Star Gazer did not look very sturdy , the gardener agreed to take him , as he thought that his pretty face and golden curls would please the princesses .
The first thing he was told was that when the princesses got up he was to present each one with a bouquet , and Michael thought that if he had nothing more unpleasant to do than that he should get on very well .
Accordingly he placed himself behind the door of the princesses ' room , with the twelve bouquets in a basket .
He gave one to each of the sisters , and they took them without even deigning to look at the lad , except Lina the youngest , who fixed her large black eyes as soft as velvet on him , and exclaimed , ` Oh , how pretty he is -- our new flower boy ! '
The rest all burst out laughing , and the eldest pointed out that a princess ought never to lower herself by looking at a garden boy .
Now Michael knew quite well what had happened to all the princes , but notwithstanding , the beautiful eyes of the Princess Lina inspired him with a violent longing to try his fate .
Unhappily he did not dare to come forward , being afraid that he should only be jeered at , or even turned away from the castle on account of his impudence .
V Nevertheless , the Star Gazer had another dream .
The lady in the golden dress appeared to him once more , holding in one hand two young laurel trees , a cherry laurel and a rose laurel , and in the other hand a little golden rake , a little golden bucket , and a silken towel .
She thus addressed him : ` Plant these two laurels in two large pots , rake them over with the rake , water them with the bucket , and wipe them with the towel .
When they have grown as tall as a girl of fifteen , say to each of them , '' My beautiful laurel , with the golden rake I have raked you , with the golden bucket I have watered you , with the silken towel I have wiped you . ''
Then after that ask anything you choose , and the laurels will give it to you . '
Michael thanked the lady in the golden dress , and when he woke he found the two laurel bushes beside him .
So he carefully obeyed the orders he had been given by the lady .
The trees grew very fast , and when they were as tall as a girl of fifteen he said to the cherry laurel , ` My lovely cherry laurel , with the golden rake I have raked thee , with the golden bucket I have watered thee , with the silken towel I have wiped thee .
Teach me how to become invisible . '
Then there instantly appeared on the laurel a pretty white flower , which Michael gathered and stuck into his button-hole .
VI That evening , when the princesses went upstairs to bed , he followed them barefoot , so that he might make no noise , and hid himself under one of the twelve beds , so as not to take up much room .
The princesses began at once to open their wardrobes and boxes .
They took out of them the most magnificent dresses , which they put on before their mirrors , and when they had finished , turned themselves all round to admire their appearances .
Michael could see nothing from his hiding-place , but he could hear everything , and he listened to the princesses laughing and jumping with pleasure .
At last the eldest said , ` Be quick , my sisters , our partners will be impatient . '
At the end of an hour , when the Star Gazer heard no more noise , he peeped out and saw the twelve sisters in splendid garments , with their satin shoes on their feet , and in their hands the bouquets he had brought them .
` Are you ready ? '
asked the eldest .
` Yes , ' replied the other eleven in chorus , and they took their places one by one behind her .
Then the eldest Princess clapped her hands three times and a trap door opened .
All the princesses disappeared down a secret staircase , and Michael hastily followed them .
As he was following on the steps of the Princess Lina , he carelessly trod on her dress .
` There is somebody behind me , ' cried the Princess ; ` they are holding my dress . '
` You foolish thing , ' said her eldest sister , ` you are always afraid of something .
It is only a nail which caught you . '
VII They went down , down , down , till at last they came to a passage with a door at one end , which was only fastened with a latch .
The eldest Princess opened it , and they found themselves immediately in a lovely little wood , where the leaves were spangled with drops of silver which shone in the brilliant light of the moon .
They next crossed another wood where the leaves were sprinkled with gold , and after that another still , where the leaves glittered with diamonds .
At last the Star Gazer perceived a large lake , and on the shores of the lake twelve little boats with awnings , in which were seated twelve princes , who , grasping their oars , awaited the princesses .
Each princess entered one of the boats , and Michael slipped into that which held the youngest .
The boats glided along rapidly , but Lina 's , from being heavier , was always behind the rest .
` We never went so slowly before , ' said the Princess ; ` what can be the reason ? ' '
I do n't know , ' answered the Prince . '
I assure you I am rowing as hard as I can . '
On the other side of the lake the garden boy saw a beautiful castle splendidly illuminated , whence came the lively music of fiddles , kettle-drums , and trumpets .
In a moment they touched land , and the company jumped out of the boats ; and the princes , after having securely fastened their barques , gave their arms to the princesses and conducted them to the castle .
VIII Michael followed , and entered the ball-room in their train .
Everywhere were mirrors , lights , flowers , and damask hangings .
The Star Gazer was quite bewildered at the magnificence of the sight .
He placed himself out of the way in a corner , admiring the grace and beauty of the princesses .
Their loveliness was of every kind .
Some were fair and some were dark ; some had chestnut hair , or curls darker still , and some had golden locks .
Never were so many beautiful princesses seen together at one time , but the one whom the cow-boy thought the most beautiful and the most fascinating was the little Princess with the velvet eyes .
With what eagerness she danced !
leaning on her partner 's shoulder she swept by like a whirlwind .
Her cheeks flushed , her eyes sparkled , and it was plain that she loved dancing better than anything else .
The poor boy envied those handsome young men with whom she danced so gracefully , but he did not know how little reason he had to be jealous of them .
The young men were really the princes who , to the number of fifty at least , had tried to steal the princesses ' secret .
The princesses had made them drink something of a philtre , which froze the heart and left nothing but the love of dancing .
IX They danced on till the shoes of the princesses were worn into holes .
When the cock crowed the third time the fiddles stopped , and a delicious supper was served by negro boys , consisting of sugared orange flowers , crystallised rose leaves , powdered violets , cracknels , wafers , and other dishes , which are , as everyone knows , the favourite food of princesses .
After supper , the dancers all went back to their boats , and this time the Star Gazer entered that of the eldest Princess .
They crossed again the wood with the diamond-spangled leaves , the wood with gold-sprinkled leaves , and the wood whose leaves glittered with drops of silver , and as a proof of what he had seen , the boy broke a small branch from a tree in the last wood .
Lina turned as she heard the noise made by the breaking of the branch .
` What was that noise ? '
she said .
` It was nothing , ' replied her eldest sister ; ` it was only the screech of the barn-owl that roosts in one of the turrets of the castle . '
While she was speaking Michael managed to slip in front , and running up the staircase , he reached the princesses ' room first .
He flung open the window , and sliding down the vine which climbed up the wall , found himself in the garden just as the sun was beginning to rise , and it was time for him to set to his work .
X That day , when he made up the bouquets , Michael hid the branch with the silver drops in the nosegay intended for the youngest Princess .
When Lina discovered it she was much surprised .
However , she said nothing to her sisters , but as she met the boy by accident while she was walking under the shade of the elms , she suddenly stopped as if to speak to him ; then , altering her mind , went on her way .
The same evening the twelve sisters went again to the ball , and the Star Gazer again followed them and crossed the lake in Lina 's boat .
This time it was the Prince who complained that the boat seemed very heavy .
` It is the heat , ' replied the Princess .
` I , too , have been feeling very warm . '
During the ball she looked everywhere for the gardener 's boy , but she never saw him .
As they came back , Michael gathered a branch from the wood with the gold-spangled leaves , and now it was the eldest Princess who heard the noise that it made in breaking .
` It is nothing , ' said Lina ; ` only the cry of the owl which roosts in the turrets of the castle . '
XI As soon as she got up she found the branch in her bouquet .
When the sisters went down she stayed a little behind and said to the cow-boy : ` Where does this branch come from ? '
` Your Royal Highness knows well enough , ' answered Michael .
` So you have followed us ? '
` Yes , Princess . '
` How did you manage it ?
we never saw you . ' '
I hid myself , ' replied the Star Gazer quietly .
The Princess was silent a moment , and then said : ` You know our secret !
-- keep it .
Here is the reward of your discretion . '
And she flung the boy a purse of gold . '
I do not sell my silence , ' answered Michael , and he went away without picking up the purse .
For three nights Lina neither saw nor heard anything extraordinary ; on the fourth she heard a rustling among the diamond-spangled leaves of the wood .
That day there was a branch of the trees in her bouquet .
She took the Star Gazer aside , and said to him in a harsh voice : ` You know what price my father has promised to pay for our secret ? ' '
I know , Princess , ' answered Michael .
` Do n't you mean to tell him ? '
` That is not my intention . '
` Are you afraid ? '
` No , Princess . '
` What makes you so discreet , then ? '
But Michael was silent .
XII Lina 's sisters had seen her talking to the little garden boy , and jeered at her for it .
` What prevents your marrying him ? '
asked the eldest , ` you would become a gardener too ; it is a charming profession .
You could live in a cottage at the end of the park , and help your husband to draw up water from the well , and when we get up you could bring us our bouquets . '
The Princess Lina was very angry , and when the Star Gazer presented her bouquet , she received it in a disdainful manner .
Michael behaved most respectfully .
He never raised his eyes to her , but nearly all day she felt him at her side without ever seeing him .
One day she made up her mind to tell everything to her eldest sister .
` What ! '
said she , ` this rogue knows our secret , and you never told me !
I must lose no time in getting rid of him . '
` But how ? '
` Why , by having him taken to the tower with the dungeons , of course . '
For this was the way that in old times beautiful princesses got rid of people who knew too much .
But the astonishing part of it was that the youngest sister did not seem at all to relish this method of stopping the mouth of the gardener 's boy , who , after all , had said nothing to their father .
XIII It was agreed that the question should be submitted to the other ten sisters .
All were on the side of the eldest .
Then the youngest sister declared that if they laid a finger on the little garden boy , she would herself go and tell their father the secret of the holes in their shoes .
At last it was decided that Michael should be put to the test ; that they would take him to the ball , and at the end of supper would give him the philtre which was to enchant him like the rest .
They sent for the Star Gazer , and asked him how he had contrived to learn their secret ; but still he remained silent .
Then , in commanding tones , the eldest sister gave him the order they had agreed upon .
He only answered : ' I will obey . '
He had really been present , invisible , at the council of princesses , and had heard all ; but he had made up his mind to drink of the philtre , and sacrifice himself to the happiness of her he loved .
Not wishing , however , to cut a poor figure at the ball by the side of the other dancers , he went at once to the laurels , and said : ` My lovely rose laurel , with the golden rake I have raked thee , with the golden bucket I have watered thee , with a silken towel I have dried thee .
Dress me like a prince . '
A beautiful pink flower appeared .
Michael gathered it , and found himself in a moment clothed in velvet , which was as black as the eyes of the little Princess , with a cap to match , a diamond aigrette , and a blossom of the rose laurel in his button-hole .
Thus dressed , he presented himself that evening before the Duke of Beloeil , and obtained leave to try and discover his daughters ' secret .
He looked so distinguished that hardly anyone would have known who he was .
XIV The twelve princesses went upstairs to bed .
Michael followed them , and waited behind the open door till they gave the signal for departure .
This time he did not cross in Lina 's boat .
He gave his arm to the eldest sister , danced with each in turn , and was so graceful that everyone was delighted with him .
At last the time came for him to dance with the little Princess .
She found him the best partner in the world , but he did not dare to speak a single word to her .
When he was taking her back to her place she said to him in a mocking voice : ` Here you are at the summit of your wishes : you are being treated like a prince . '
` Do n't be afraid , ' replied the Star Gazer gently .
` You shall never be a gardener 's wife . '
The little Princess stared at him with a frightened face , and he left her without waiting for an answer .
When the satin slippers were worn through the fiddles stopped , and the negro boys set the table .
Michael was placed next to the eldest sister , and opposite to the youngest .
They gave him the most exquisite dishes to eat , and the most delicate wines to drink ; and in order to turn his head more completely , compliments and flattery were heaped on him from every side .
But he took care not to be intoxicated , either by the wine or the compliments .
XV At last the eldest sister made a sign , and one of the black pages brought in a large golden cup .
` The enchanted castle has no more secrets for you , ' she said to the Star Gazer .
` Let us drink to your triumph . '
He cast a lingering glance at the little Princess , and without hesitation lifted the cup .
` Do n't drink ! '
suddenly cried out the little Princess ; ' I would rather marry a gardener . '
And she burst into tears .
Michael flung the contents of the cup behind him , sprang over the table , and fell at Lina 's feet .
The rest of the princes fell likewise at the knees of the princesses , each of whom chose a husband and raised him to her side .
The charm was broken .
The twelve couples embarked in the boats , which crossed back many times in order to carry over the other princes .
Then they all went through the three woods , and when they had passed the door of the underground passage a great noise was heard , as if the enchanted castle was crumbling to the earth .
They went straight to the room of the Duke of Beloeil , who had just awoke .
Michael held in his hand the golden cup , and he revealed the secret of the holes in the shoes .
` Choose , then , ' said the Duke , ` whichever you prefer . '
` My choice is already made , ' replied the garden boy , and he offered his hand to the youngest Princess , who blushed and lowered her eyes .
XVI The Princess Lina did not become a gardener 's wife ; on the contrary , it was the Star Gazer who became a Prince : but before the marriage ceremony the Princess insisted that her lover should tell her how he came to discover the secret .
So he showed her the two laurels which had helped him , and she , like a prudent girl , thinking they gave him too much advantage over his wife , cut them off at the root and threw them in the fire .
And this is why the country girls go about singing : Nous n'irons plus au bois , Les lauriers sont coupes , ' and dancing in summer by the light of the moon .
THE PRINCESS MAYBLOSSOM ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen whose children had all died , first one and then another , until at last only one little daughter remained , and the Queen was at her wits ' end to know where to find a really good nurse who would take care of her , and bring her up .
A herald was sent who blew a trumpet at every street corner , and commanded all the best nurses to appear before the Queen , that she might choose one for the little Princess .
So on the appointed day the whole palace was crowded with nurses , who came from the four corners of the world to offer themselves , until the Queen declared that if she was ever to see the half of them , they must be brought out to her , one by one , as she sat in a shady wood near the palace .
This was accordingly done , and the nurses , after they had made their curtsey to the King and Queen , ranged themselves in a line before her that she might choose .
Most of them were fair and fat and charming , but there was one who was dark-skinned and ugly , and spoke a strange language which nobody could understand .
The Queen wondered how she dared offer herself , and she was told to go away , as she certainly would not do .
Upon which she muttered something and passed on , but hid herself in a hollow tree , from which she could see all that happened .
The Queen , without giving her another thought , chose a pretty rosy-faced nurse , but no sooner was her choice made than a snake , which was hidden in the grass , bit that very nurse on her foot , so that she fell down as if dead .
The Queen was very much vexed by this accident , but she soon selected another , who was just stepping forward when an eagle flew by and dropped a large tortoise upon her head , which was cracked in pieces like an egg-shell .
At this the Queen was much horrified ; nevertheless , she chose a third time , but with no better fortune , for the nurse , moving quickly , ran into the branch of a tree and blinded herself with a thorn .
Then the Queen in dismay cried that there must be some malignant influence at work , and that she would choose no more that day ; and she had just risen to return to the palace when she heard peals of malicious laughter behind her , and turning round saw the ugly stranger whom she had dismissed , who was making very merry over the disasters and mocking everyone , but especially the Queen .
This annoyed Her Majesty very much , and she was about to order that she should be arrested , when the witch -- for she was a witch -- with two blows from a wand summoned a chariot of fire drawn by winged dragons , and was whirled off through the air uttering threats and cries .
When the King saw this he cried : ` Alas !
now we are ruined indeed , for that was no other than the Fairy Carabosse , who has had a grudge against me ever since I was a boy and put sulphur into her porridge one day for fun . '
Then the Queen began to cry .
` If I had only known who it was , ' she said , ' I would have done my best to make friends with her ; now I suppose all is lost . '
The King was sorry to have frightened her so much , and proposed that they should go and hold a council as to what was best to be done to avert the misfortunes which Carabosse certainly meant to bring upon the little Princess .
So all the counsellors were summoned to the palace , and when they had shut every door and window , and stuffed up every keyhole that they might not be overheard , they talked the affair over , and decided that every fairy for a thousand leagues round should be invited to the christening of the Princess , and that the time of the ceremony should be kept a profound secret , in case the Fairy Carabosse should take it into her head to attend it .
The Queen and her ladies set to work to prepare presents for the fairies who were invited : for each one a blue velvet cloak , a petticoat of apricot satin , a pair of high-heeled shoes , some sharp needles , and a pair of golden scissors .
Of all the fairies the Queen knew , only five were able to come on the day appointed , but they began immediately to bestow gifts upon the Princess .
One promised that she should be perfectly beautiful , the second that she should understand anything -- no matter what -- the first time it was explained to her , the third that she should sing like a nightingale , the fourth that she should succeed in everything she undertook , and the fifth was opening her mouth to speak when a tremendous rumbling was heard in the chimney , and Carabosse , all covered with soot , came rolling down , crying : ' I say that she shall be the unluckiest of the unlucky until she is twenty years old . '
Then the Queen and all the fairies began to beg and beseech her to think better of it , and not be so unkind to the poor little Princess , who had never done her any harm .
But the ugly old Fairy only grunted and made no answer .
So the last Fairy , who had not yet given her gift , tried to mend matters by promising the Princess a long and happy life after the fatal time was over .
At this Carabosse laughed maliciously , and climbed away up the chimney , leaving them all in great consternation , and especially the Queen .
However , she entertained the fairies splendidly , and gave them beautiful ribbons , of which they are very fond , in addition to the other presents .
When they were going away the oldest Fairy said that they were of opinion that it would be best to shut the Princess up in some place , with her waiting-women , so that she might not see anyone else until she was twenty years old .
So the King had a tower built on purpose .
It had no windows , so it was lighted with wax candles , and the only way into it was by an underground passage , which had iron doors only twenty feet apart , and guards were posted everywhere .
The Princess had been named Mayblossom , because she was as fresh and blooming as Spring itself , and she grew up tall and beautiful , and everything she did and said was charming .
Every time the King and Queen came to see her they were more delighted with her than before , but though she was weary of the tower , and often begged them to take her away from it , they always refused .
The Princess 's nurse , who had never left her , sometimes told her about the world outside the tower , and though the Princess had never seen anything for herself , yet she always understood exactly , thanks to the second Fairy 's gift .
Often the King said to the Queen : ` We were cleverer than Carabosse after all .
Our Mayblossom will be happy in spite of her predictions . '
And the Queen laughed until she was tired at the idea of having outwitted the old Fairy .
They had caused the Princess 's portrait to be painted and sent to all the neighbouring Courts , for in four days she would have completed her twentieth year , and it was time to decide whom she should marry .
All the town was rejoicing at the thought of the Princess 's approaching freedom , and when the news came that King Merlin was sending his ambassador to ask her in marriage for his son , they were still more delighted .
The nurse , who kept the Princess informed of everything that went forward in the town , did not fail to repeat the news that so nearly concerned her , and gave such a description of the splendour in which the ambassador Fanfaronade would enter the town , that the Princess was wild to see the procession for herself .
` What an unhappy creature I am , ' she cried , ` to be shut up in this dismal tower as if I had committed some crime !
I have never seen the sun , or the stars , or a horse , or a monkey , or a lion , except in pictures , and though the King and Queen tell me I am to be set free when I am twenty , I believe they only say it to keep me amused , when they never mean to let me out at all . '
And then she began to cry , and her nurse , and the nurse 's daughter , and the cradle-rocker , and the nursery-maid , who all loved her dearly , cried too for company , so that nothing could be heard but sobs and sighs .
It was a scene of woe .
When the Princess saw that they all pitied her she made up her mind to have her own way .
So she declared that she would starve herself to death if they did not find some means of letting her see Fanfaronade 's grand entry into the town .
` If you really love me , ' she said , ` you will manage it , somehow or other , and the King and Queen need never know anything about it . '
Then the nurse and all the others cried harder than ever , and said everything they could think of to turn the Princess from her idea .
But the more they said the more determined she was , and at last they consented to make a tiny hole in the tower on the side that looked towards the city gates .
After scratching and scraping all day and all night , they presently made a hole through which they could , with great difficulty , push a very slender needle , and out of this the Princess looked at the daylight for the first time .
She was so dazzled and delighted by what she saw , that there she stayed , never taking her eyes away from the peep-hole for a single minute , until presently the ambassador 's procession appeared in sight .
At the head of it rode Fanfaronade himself upon a white horse , which pranced and caracoled to the sound of the trumpets .
Nothing could have been more splendid than the ambassador 's attire .
His coat was nearly hidden under an embroidery of pearls and diamonds , his boots were solid gold , and from his helmet floated scarlet plumes .
At the sight of him the Princess lost her wits entirely , and determined that Fanfaronade and nobody else would she marry .
` It is quite impossible , ' she said , ` that his master should be half as handsome and delightful .
I am not ambitious , and having spent all my life in this tedious tower , anything -- even a house in the country -- will seem a delightful change .
I am sure that bread and water shared with Fanfaronade will please me far better than roast chicken and sweetmeats with anybody else . '
And so she went on talk , talk , talking , until her waiting-women wondered where she got it all from .
But when they tried to stop her , and represented that her high rank made it perfectly impossible that she should do any such thing , she would not listen , and ordered them to be silent .
As soon as the ambassador arrived at the palace , the Queen started to fetch her daughter .
All the streets were spread with carpets , and the windows were full of ladies who were waiting to see the Princess , and carried baskets of flowers and sweetmeats to shower upon her as she passed .
They had hardly begun to get the Princess ready when a dwarf arrived , mounted upon an elephant .
He came from the five fairies , and brought for the Princess a crown , a sceptre , and a robe of golden brocade , with a petticoat marvellously embroidered with butterflies ' wings .
They also sent a casket of jewels , so splendid that no one had ever seen anything like it before , and the Queen was perfectly dazzled when she opened it .
But the Princess scarcely gave a glance to any of these treasures , for she thought of nothing but Fanfaronade .
The Dwarf was rewarded with a gold piece , and decorated with so many ribbons that it was hardly possible to see him at all .
The Princess sent to each of the fairies a new spinning-wheel with a distaff of cedar wood , and the Queen said she must look through her treasures and find something very charming to send them also .
When the Princess was arrayed in all the gorgeous things the Dwarf had brought , she was more beautiful than ever , and as she walked along the streets the people cried : ` How pretty she is !
How pretty she is ! '
The procession consisted of the Queen , the Princess , five dozen other princesses her cousins , and ten dozen who came from the neighbouring kingdoms ; and as they proceeded at a stately pace the sky began to grow dark , then suddenly the thunder growled , and rain and hail fell in torrents .
The Queen put her royal mantle over her head , and all the princesses did the same with their trains .
Mayblossom was just about to follow their example when a terrific croaking , as of an immense army of crows , rooks , ravens , screech-owls , and all birds of ill-omen was heard , and at the same instant a huge owl skimmed up to the Princess , and threw over her a scarf woven of spiders ' webs and embroidered with bats ' wings .
And then peals of mocking laughter rang through the air , and they guessed that this was another of the Fairy Carabosse 's unpleasant jokes .
The Queen was terrified at such an evil omen , and tried to pull the black scarf from the Princess 's shoulders , but it really seemed as if it must be nailed on , it clung so closely .
` Ah ! '
cried the Queen , ` can nothing appease this enemy of ours ?
What good was it that I sent her more than fifty pounds of sweetmeats , and as much again of the best sugar , not to mention two Westphalia hams ?
She is as angry as ever . '
While she lamented in this way , and everybody was as wet as if they had been dragged through a river , the Princess still thought of nothing but the ambassador , and just at this moment he appeared before her , with the King , and there was a great blowing of trumpets , and all the people shouted louder than ever .
Fanfaronade was not generally at a loss for something to say , but when he saw the Princess , she was so much more beautiful and majestic than he had expected that he could only stammer out a few words , and entirely forgot the harangue which he had been learning for months , and knew well enough to have repeated it in his sleep .
To gain time to remember at least part of it , he made several low bows to the Princess , who on her side dropped half-a-dozen curtseys without stopping to think , and then said , to relieve his evident embarrassment : ` Sir Ambassador , I am sure that everything you intend to say is charming , since it is you who mean to say it ; but let us make haste into the palace , as it is pouring cats and dogs , and the wicked Fairy Carabosse will be amused to see us all stand dripping here .
When we are once under shelter we can laugh at her . '
Upon this the Ambassador found his tongue , and replied gallantly that the Fairy had evidently foreseen the flames that would be kindled by the bright eyes of the Princess , and had sent this deluge to extinguish them .
Then he offered his hand to conduct the Princess , and she said softly : ` As you could not possibly guess how much I like you , Sir Fanfaronade , I am obliged to tell you plainly that , since I saw you enter the town on your beautiful prancing horse , I have been sorry that you came to speak for another instead of for yourself .
So , if you think about it as I do , I will marry you instead of your master .
Of course I know you are not a prince , but I shall be just as fond of you as if you were , and we can go and live in some cosy little corner of the world , and be as happy as the days are long . '
The Ambassador thought he must be dreaming , and could hardly believe what the lovely Princess said .
He dared not answer , but only squeezed the Princess 's hand until he really hurt her little finger , but she did not cry out .
When they reached the palace the King kissed his daughter on both cheeks , and said : ` My little lambkin , are you willing to marry the great King Merlin 's son , for this Ambassador has come on his behalf to fetch you ? '
` If you please , sire , ' said the Princess , dropping a curtsey . '
I consent also , ' said the Queen ; ` so let the banquet be prepared . '
This was done with all speed , and everybody feasted except Mayblossom and Fanfaronade , who looked at one another and forgot everything else .
After the banquet came a ball , and after that again a ballet , and at last they were all so tired that everyone fell asleep just where he sat .
Only the lovers were as wide-awake as mice , and the Princess , seeing that there was nothing to fear , said to Fanfaronade : ` Let us be quick and run away , for we shall never have a better chance than this . '
Then she took the King 's dagger , which was in a diamond sheath , and the Queen 's neck-handkerchief , and gave her hand to Fanfaronade , who carried a lantern , and they ran out together into the muddy street and down to the sea-shore .
Here they got into a little boat in which the poor old boatman was sleeping , and when he woke up and saw the lovely Princess , with all her diamonds and her spiders ' -- web scarf , he did not know what to think , and obeyed her instantly when she commanded him to set out .
They could see neither moon nor stars , but in the Queen 's neck-handkerchief there was a carbuncle which glowed like fifty torches .
Fanfaronade asked the Princess where she would like to go , but she only answered that she did not care where she went as long as he was with her .
` But , Princess , ' said he , ' I dare not take you back to King Merlin 's court .
He would think hanging too good for me . '
` Oh , in that case , ' she answered , ` we had better go to Squirrel Island ; it is lonely enough , and too far off for anyone to follow us there . '
So she ordered the old boatman to steer for Squirrel Island .
Meanwhile the day was breaking , and the King and Queen and all the courtiers began to wake up and rub their eyes , and think it was time to finish the preparations for the wedding .
And the Queen asked for her neck-handkerchief , that she might look smart .
Then there was a scurrying hither and thither , and a hunting everywhere : they looked into every place , from the wardrobes to the stoves , and the Queen herself ran about from the garret to the cellar , but the handkerchief was nowhere to be found .
By this time the King had missed his dagger , and the search began all over again .
They opened boxes and chests of which the keys had been lost for a hundred years , and found numbers of curious things , but not the dagger , and the King tore his beard , and the Queen tore her hair , for the handkerchief and the dagger were the most valuable things in the kingdom .
When the King saw that the search was hopeless he said : ` Never mind , let us make haste and get the wedding over before anything else is lost . '
And then he asked where the Princess was .
Upon this her nurse came forward and said : ` Sire , I have been seeking her these two hours , but she is nowhere to be found . '
This was more than the Queen could bear .
She gave a shriek of alarm and fainted away , and they had to pour two barrels of eau-de-cologne over her before she recovered .
When she came to herself everybody was looking for the Princess in the greatest terror and confusion , but as she did not appear , the King said to his page : ` Go and find the Ambassador Fanfaronade , who is doubtless asleep in some corner , and tell him the sad news . '
So the page hunted hither and thither , but Fanfaronade was no more to be found than the Princess , the dagger , or the neck-handkerchief !
Then the King summoned his counsellors and his guards , and , accompanied by the Queen , went into his great hall .
As he had not had time to prepare his speech beforehand , the King ordered that silence should be kept for three hours , and at the end of that time he spoke as follows : ` Listen , great and small !
My dear daughter Mayblossom is lost : whether she has been stolen away or has simply disappeared I can not tell .
The Queen 's neck-handkerchief and my sword , which are worth their weight in gold , are also missing , and , what is worst of all , the Ambassador Fanfaronade is nowhere to be found .
I greatly fear that the King , his master , when he receives no tidings from him , will come to seek him among us , and will accuse us of having made mince-meat of him .
Perhaps I could bear even that if I had any money , but I assure you that the expenses of the wedding have completely ruined me .
Advise me , then , my dear subjects , what had I better do to recover my daughter , Fanfaronade , and the other things . '
This was the most eloquent speech the King had been known to make , and when everybody had done admiring it the Prime Minister made answer : ` Sire , we are all very sorry to see you so sorry .
We would give everything we value in the world to take away the cause of your sorrow , but this seems to be another of the tricks of the Fairy Carabosse .
The Princess 's twenty unlucky years were not quite over , and really , if the truth must be told , I noticed that Fanfaronade and the Princess appeared to admire one another greatly .
Perhaps this may give some clue to the mystery of their disappearance . '
Here the Queen interrupted him , saying , ` Take care what you say , sir .
Believe me , the Princess Mayblossom was far too well brought up to think of falling in love with an Ambassador . '
At this the nurse came forward , and , falling on her knees , confessed how they had made the little needle-hole in the tower , and how the Princess had declared when she saw the Ambassador that she would marry him and nobody else .
Then the Queen was very angry , and gave the nurse , and the cradle-rocker , and the nursery-maid such a scolding that they shook in their shoes .
But the Admiral Cocked-Hat interrupted her , crying : ` Let us be off after this good-for-nothing Fanfaronade , for with out a doubt he has run away with our Princess . '
Then there was a great clapping of hands , and everybody shouted , ` By all means let us be after him . '
So while some embarked upon the sea , the others ran from kingdom to kingdom beating drums and blowing trumpets , and wherever a crowd collected they cried : ` Whoever wants a beautiful doll , sweetmeats of all kinds , a little pair of scissors , a golden robe , and a satin cap has only to say where Fanfaronade has hidden the Princess Mayblossom . '
But the answer everywhere was , ` You must go farther , we have not seen them . '
However , those who went by sea were more fortunate , for after sailing about for some time they noticed a light before them which burned at night like a great fire .
At first they dared not go near it , not knowing what it might be , but by-and-by it remained stationary over Squirrel Island , for , as you have guessed already , the light was the glowing of the carbuncle .
The Princess and Fanfaronade on landing upon the island had given the boatman a hundred gold pieces , and made him promise solemnly to tell no one where he had taken them ; but the first thing that happened was that , as he rowed away , he got into the midst of the fleet , and before he could escape the Admiral had seen him and sent a boat after him .
When he was searched they found the gold pieces in his pocket , and as they were quite new coins , struck in honour of the Princess 's wedding , the Admiral felt certain that the boatman must have been paid by the Princess to aid her in her flight .
But he would not answer any questions , and pretended to be deaf and dumb .
Then the Admiral said : ` Oh !
deaf and dumb is he ?
Lash him to the mast and give him a taste of the cat-o ' - nine-tails .
I do n't know anything better than that for curing the deaf and dumb ! '
And when the old boatman saw that he was in earnest , he told all he knew about the cavalier and the lady whom he had landed upon Squirrel Island , and the Admiral knew it must be the Princess and Fanfaronade ; so he gave the order for the fleet to surround the island .
Meanwhile the Princess Mayblossom , who was by this time terribly sleepy , had found a grassy bank in the shade , and throwing herself down had already fallen into a profound slumber , when Fanfaronade , who happened to be hungry and not sleepy , came and woke her up , saying , very crossly : ` Pray , madam , how long do you mean to stay here ?
I see nothing to eat , and though you may be very charming , the sight of you does not prevent me from famishing . '
` What !
Fanfaronade , ' said the Princess , sitting up and rubbing her eyes , ` is it possible that when I am here with you you can want anything else ?
You ought to be thinking all the time how happy you are . '
` Happy ! '
cried he ; ` say rather unhappy .
I wish with all my heart that you were back in your dark tower again . '
` Darling , do n't be cross , ' said the Princess . '
I will go and see if I can find some wild fruit for you . ' '
I wish you might find a wolf to eat you up , ' growled Fanfaronade .
The Princess , in great dismay , ran hither and thither all about the wood , tearing her dress , and hurting her pretty white hands with the thorns and brambles , but she could find nothing good to eat , and at last she had to go back sorrowfully to Fanfaronade .
When he saw that she came empty-handed he got up and left her , grumbling to himself .
The next day they searched again , but with no better success .
` Alas ! '
said the Princess , ` if only I could find something for you to eat , I should not mind being hungry myself . '
` No , I should not mind that either , ' answered Fanfaronade .
` Is it possible , ' said she , ` that you would not care if I died of hunger ?
Oh , Fanfaronade , you said you loved me ! '
` That was when we were in quite another place and I was not hungry , ' said he .
` It makes a great difference in one 's ideas to be dying of hunger and thirst on a desert island . '
At this the Princess was dreadfully vexed , and she sat down under a white rose bush and began to cry bitterly .
` Happy roses , ' she thought to herself , ` they have only to blossom in the sunshine and be admired , and there is nobody to be unkind to them . '
And the tears ran down her cheeks and splashed on to the rose-tree roots .
Presently she was surprised to see the whole bush rustling and shaking , and a soft little voice from the prettiest rosebud said : ` Poor Princess !
look in the trunk of that tree , and you will find a honeycomb , but do n't be foolish enough to share it with Fanfaronade . '
Mayblossom ran to the tree , and sure enough there was the honey .
Without losing a moment she ran with it to Fanfaronade , crying gaily : ` See , here is a honeycomb that I have found .
I might have eaten it up all by myself , but I had rather share it with you . '
But without looking at her or thanking her he snatched the honey comb out of her hands and ate it all up -- every bit , without offering her a morsel .
Indeed , when she humbly asked for some he said mockingly that it was too sweet for her , and would spoil her teeth .
Mayblossom , more downcast than ever , went sadly away and sat down under an oak tree , and her tears and sighs were so piteous that the oak fanned her with his rustling leaves , and said : ` Take courage , pretty Princess , all is not lost yet .
Take this pitcher of milk and drink it up , and whatever you do , do n't leave a drop for Fanfaronade . '
The Princess , quite astonished , looked round , and saw a big pitcher full of milk , but before she could raise it to her lips the thought of how thirsty Fanfaronade must be , after eating at least fifteen pounds of honey , made her run back to him and say : ` Here is a pitcher of milk ; drink some , for you must be thirsty I am sure ; but pray save a little for me , as I am dying of hunger and thirst . '
But he seized the pitcher and drank all it contained at a single draught , and then broke it to atoms on the nearest stone , saying with a malicious smile : ` As you have not eaten anything you can not be thirsty . '
` Ah ! '
cried the Princess , ' I am well punished for disappointing the King and Queen , and running away with this Ambassador about whom I knew nothing . '
And so saying she wandered away into the thickest part of the wood , and sat down under a thorn tree , where a nightingale was singing .
Presently she heard him say : ` Search under the bush Princess ; you will find some sugar , almonds , and some tarts there But do n't be silly enough to offer Fanfaronade any . '
And this time the Princess , who was fainting with hunger , took the nightingale 's advice , and ate what she found all by herself .
But Fanfaronade , seeing that she had found something good , and was not going to share it with him , ran after her in such a fury that she hastily drew out the Queen 's carbuncle , which had the property of rendering people invisible if they were in danger , and when she was safely hidden from him she reproached him gently for his unkindness .
Meanwhile Admiral Cocked-Hat had despatched Jack-the-Chatterer-of-the-Straw-Boots , Courier in Ordinary to the Prime Minister , to tell the King that the Princess and the Ambassador had landed on Squirrel Island , but that not knowing the country he had not pursued them , for fear of being captured by concealed enemies .
Their Majesties were overjoyed at the news , and the King sent for a great book , each leaf of which was eight ells long .
It was the work of a very clever Fairy , and contained a description of the whole earth .
He very soon found that Squirrel Island was uninhabited .
` Go , ' said he , to Jack-the-Chatterer , ` tell the Admiral from me to land at once .
I am surprised at his not having done so sooner . '
As soon as this message reached the fleet , every preparation was made for war , and the noise was so great that it reached the ears of the Princess , who at once flew to protect her lover .
As he was not very brave he accepted her aid gladly .
` You stand behind me , ' said she , ` and I will hold the carbuncle which will make us invisible , and with the King 's dagger I can protect you from the enemy . '
So when the soldiers landed they could see nothing , but the Princess touched them one after another with the dagger , and they fell insensible upon the sand , so that at last the Admiral , seeing that there was some enchantment , hastily gave orders for a retreat to be sounded , and got his men back into their boats in great confusion .
Fanfaronade , being once more left with the Princess , began to think that if he could get rid of her , and possess himself of the carbuncle and the dagger , he would be able to make his escape .
So as they walked back over the cliffs he gave the Princess a great push , hoping she would fall into the sea ; but she stepped aside so quickly that he only succeeded in overbalancing himself , and over he went , and sank to the bottom of the sea like a lump of lead , and was never heard of any more .
While the Princess was still looking after him in horror , her attention was attracted by a rushing noise over her head , and looking up she saw two chariots approaching rapidly from opposite directions .
One was bright and glittering , and drawn by swans and peacocks , while the Fairy who sat in it was beautiful as a sunbeam ; but the other was drawn by bats and ravens , and contained a frightful little Dwarf , who was dressed in a snake 's skin , and wore a great toad upon her head for a hood .
The chariots met with a frightful crash in mid-air , and the Princess looked on in breathless anxiety while a furious battle took place between the lovely Fairy with her golden lance , and the hideous little Dwarf and her rusty pike .
But very soon it was evident that the Beauty had the best of it , and the Dwarf turned her bats ' heads and flickered away in great confusion , while the Fairy came down to where the Princess stood , and said , smiling , ` You see Princess , I have completely routed that malicious old Carabosse .
Will you believe it !
she actually wanted to claim authority over you for ever , because you came out of the tower four days before the twenty years were ended .
However , I think I have settled her pretensions , and I hope you will be very happy and enjoy the freedom I have won for you . '
The Princess thanked her heartily , and then the Fairy despatched one of her peacocks to her palace to bring a gorgeous robe for Mayblossom , who certainly needed it , for her own was torn to shreds by the thorns and briars .
Another peacock was sent to the Admiral to tell him that he could now land in perfect safety , which he at once did , bringing all his men with him , even to Jack-the-Chatterer , who , happening to pass the spit upon which the Admiral 's dinner was roasting , snatched it up and brought it with him .
Admiral Cocked-Hat was immensely surprised when he came upon the golden chariot , and still more so to see two lovely ladies walking under the trees a little farther away .
When he reached them , of course he recognised the Princess , and he went down on his knees and kissed her hand quite joyfully .
Then she presented him to the Fairy , and told him how Carabosse had been finally routed , and he thanked and congratulated the Fairy , who was most gracious to him .
While they were talking she cried suddenly : ' I declare I smell a savoury dinner . '
` Why yes , Madam , here it is , ' said Jack-the-Chatterer , holding up the spit , where all the pheasants and partridges were frizzling .
` Will your Highness please to taste any of them ? '
` By all means , ' said the Fairy , ` especially as the Princess will certainly be glad of a good meal . '
So the Admiral sent back to his ship for everything that was needful , and they feasted merrily under the trees .
By the time they had finished the peacock had come back with a robe for the Princess , in which the Fairy arrayed her .
It was of green and gold brocade , embroidered with pearls and rubies , and her long golden hair was tied back with strings of diamonds and emeralds , and crowned with flowers .
The Fairy made her mount beside her in the golden chariot , and took her on board the Admiral 's ship , where she bade her farewell , sending many messages of friendship to the Queen , and bidding the Princess tell her that she was the fifth Fairy who had attended the christening .
Then salutes were fired , the fleet weighed anchor , and very soon they reached the port .
Here the King and Queen were waiting , and they received the Princess with such joy and kindness that she could not get a word in edgewise , to say how sorry she was for having run away with such a very poor spirited Ambassador .
But , after all , it must have been all Carabosse 's fault .
Just at this lucky moment who should arrive but King Merlin 's son , who had become uneasy at not receiving any news from his Ambassador , and so had started himself with a magnificent escort of a thousand horsemen , and thirty body-guards in gold and scarlet uniforms , to see what could have happened .
As he was a hundred times handsomer and braver than the Ambassador , the Princess found she could like him very much .
So the wedding was held at once , with so much splendour and rejoicing that all the previous misfortunes were quite forgotten .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Princesse Printaniere .
Par Mme. d'Aulnoy .
SORIA MORIA CASTLE THERE was once upon a time a couple of folks who had a son called Halvor .
Ever since he had been a little boy he had been unwilling to do any work , and had just sat raking about among the ashes .
His parents sent him away to learn several things , but Halvor stayed nowhere , for when he had been gone two or three days he always ran away from his master , hurried off home , and sat down in the chimney corner to grub among the ashes again .
One day , however , a sea captain came and asked Halvor if he had n't a fancy to come with him and go to sea , and behold foreign lands .
And Halvor had a fancy for that , so he was not long in getting ready .
How long they sailed I have no idea , but after a long , long time there was a terrible storm , and when it was over and all had become calm again , they knew not where they were , for they had been driven away to a strange coast of which none of them had any knowledge .
As there was no wind at all they lay there becalmed , and Halvor asked the skipper to give him leave to go on shore to look about him , for he would much rather do that than lie there and sleep .
` Dost thou think that thou art fit to go where people can see thee ? '
said the skipper ; ` thou hast no clothes but those rags thou art going about in ! '
Halvor still begged for leave , and at last got it , but he was to come back at once if the wind began to rise .
So he went on shore , and it was a delightful country ; whithersoever he went there were wide plains with fields and meadows , but as for people , there were none to be seen .
The wind began to rise , but Halvor thought that he had not seen enough yet , and that he would like to walk about a little longer , to try if he could not meet somebody .
So after a while he came to a great highway , which was so smooth that an egg might have been rolled along it without breaking .
Halvor followed this , and when evening drew near he saw a big castle far away in the distance , and there were lights in it .
So as he had now been walking the whole day and had not brought anything to eat away with him , he was frightfully hungry .
Nevertheless , the nearer he came to the castle the more afraid he was .
A fire was burning in the castle , and Halvor went into the kitchen , which was more magnificent than any kitchen he had ever yet beheld .
There were vessels of gold and silver , but not one human being was to be seen .
When Halvor had stood there for some time , and no one had come out , he went in and opened a door , and inside a Princess was sitting at her wheel spinning .
` Nay ! '
she cried , ` can Christian folk dare to come hither ?
But the best thing that you can do is to go away again , for if not the Troll will devour you .
A Troll with three heads lives here . ' '
I should have been just as well pleased if he had had four heads more , for I should have enjoyed seeing the fellow , ' said the youth ; ` and I wo n't go away , for I have done no harm , but you must give me something to eat , for I am frightfully hungry . '
When Halvor had eaten his fill , the Princess told him to try if he could wield the sword which was hanging on the wall , but he could not wield it , nor could he even lift it up .
` Well , then , you must take a drink out of that bottle which is hanging by its side , for that 's what the Troll does whenever he goes out and wants to use the sword , ' said the Princess .
Halvor took a draught , and in a moment he was able to swing the sword about with perfect ease .
And now he thought it was high time for the Troll to make his appearance , and at that very moment he came , panting for breath .
Halvor got behind the door .
` Hutetu ! '
said the Troll as he put his head in at the door .
` It smells just as if there were Christian man 's blood here ! '
` Yes , you shall learn that there is ! '
said Halvor , and cut off all his heads .
The Princess was so rejoiced to be free that she danced and sang , but then she remembered her sisters , and said : ` If my sisters were but free too ! '
` Where are they ? '
asked Halvor .
So she told him where they were .
One of them had been taken away by a Troll to his castle , which was six miles off , and the other had been carried off to a castle which was nine miles farther off still .
` But now , ' said she , ` you must first help me to get this dead body away from here . '
Halvor was so strong that he cleared everything away , and made all clean and tidy very quickly .
So then they ate and drank , and were happy , and next morning he set off in the grey light of dawn .
He gave himself no rest , but walked or ran the livelong day .
When he came in sight of the castle he was again just a little afraid .
It was much more splendid than the other , but here too there was not a human being to be seen .
So Halvor went into the kitchen , and did not linger there either , but went straight in .
` Nay !
do Christian folk dare to come here ? '
cried the second Princess . '
I know not how long it is since I myself came , but during all that time I have never seen a Christian man .
It will be better for you to depart at once , for a Troll lives here who has six heads . '
` No , I shall not go , ' said Halvor ; ` even if he had six more I would not . '
` He will swallow you up alive , ' said the Princess .
But she spoke to no purpose , for Halvor would not go ; he was not afraid of the Troll , but he wanted some meat and drink , for he was hungry after his journey .
So she gave him as much as he would have , and then she once more tried to make him go away .
` No , ' said Halvor , ' I will not go , for I have not done anything wrong , and I have no reason to be afraid . '
` He wo n't ask any questions about that , ' said the Princess , ` for he will take you without leave or right ; but as you will not go , try if you can wield that sword which the Troll uses in battle . '
He could not brandish the sword ; so the Princess said that he was to take a draught from the flask which hung by its side , and when he had done that he could wield the sword .
Soon afterwards the Troll came , and he was so large and stout that he was forced to go sideways to get through the door .
When the Troll got his first head in he cried : ` Hutetu !
It smells of a Christian man 's blood here ! '
With that Halvor cut off the first head , and so on with all the rest .
The Princess was now exceedingly delighted , but then she remembered her sisters , and wished that they too were free .
Halvor thought that might be managed , and wanted to set off immediately ; but first he had to help the Princess to remove the Troll 's body , so it was not until morning that he set forth on his way .
It was a long way to the castle , and he both walked and ran to get there in time .
Late in the evening he caught sight of it , and it was very much more magnificent than either of the others .
And this time he was not in the least afraid , but went into the kitchen , and then straight on inside the castle .
There a Princess was sitting , who was so beautiful that there was never anyone to equal her .
She too said what the others had said , that no Christian folk had ever been there since she had come , and entreated him to go away again , or else the Troll would swallow him up alive .
The Troll had nine heads , she told him .
` Yes , and if he had nine added to the nine , and then nine more still , I would not go away , ' said Halvor , and went and stood by the stove .
The Princess begged him very prettily to go lest the Troll should devour him ; but Halvor said , ` Let him come when he will . '
So she gave him the Troll 's sword , and bade him take a drink from the flask to enable him to wield it .
At that same moment the Troll came , breathing hard , and he was ever so much bigger and stouter than either of the others , and he too was forced to go sideways to get in through the door .
` Hutetu !
what a smell of Christian blood there is here ! '
said he .
Then Halvor cut off the first head , and after that the others , but the last was the toughest of them all , and it was the hardest work that Halvor had ever done to get it off , but he still believed that he would have strength enough to do it .
And now all the Princesses came to the castle , and were together again , and they were happier than they had ever been in their lives ; and they were delighted with Halvor , and he with them , and he was to choose the one he liked best ; but of the three sisters the youngest loved him best .
But Halvor went about and was so strange and so mournful and quiet that the Princesses asked what it was that he longed for , and if he did not like to be with them .
He said that he did like to be with them , for they had enough to live on , and he was very comfortable there ; but he longed to go home , for his father and mother were alive , and he had a great desire to see them again .
They thought that this might easily be done .
` You shall go and return in perfect safety if you will follow our advice , ' said the Princesses .
So he said that he would do nothing that they did not wish .
Then they dressed him so splendidly that he was like a King 's son ; and they put a ring on his finger , and it was one which would enable him to go there and back again by wishing , but they told him that he must not throw it away , or name their names ; for if he did , all his magnificence would be at an end , and then he would never see them more .
` If I were but at home again , or if home were but here ! '
said Halvor , and no sooner had he wished this than it was granted .
Halvor was standing outside his father and mother 's cottage before he knew what he was about .
The darkness of night was coming on , and when the father and mother saw such a splendid and stately stranger walk in , they were so startled that they both began to bow and curtsey .
Halvor then inquired if he could stay there and have lodging for the night .
No , that he certainly could not .
` We can give you no such accommodation , ' they said , ` for we have none of the things that are needful when a great lord like you is to be entertained .
It will be better for you to go up to the farm .
It is not far off , you can see the chimney-pots from here , and there they have plenty of everything . '
Halvor would not hear of that , he was absolutely determined to stay where he was ; but the old folks stuck to what they had said , and told him that he was to go to the farm , where he could get both meat and drink , whereas they themselves had not even a chair to offer him .
` No , ' said Halvor , ' I will not go up there till early to-morrow morning ; let me stay here to-night .
I can sit down on the hearth . '
They could say nothing against that , so Halvor sat down on the hearth , and began to rake about among the ashes just as he had done before , when he lay there idling away his time .
They chattered much about many things , and told Halvor of this and of that , and at last he asked them if they had never had any child .
` Yes , ' they said ; they had had a boy who was called Halvor , but they did not know where he had gone , and they could not even say whether he were dead or alive .
` Could I be he ? '
said Halvor . '
I should know him well enough , ' said the old woman rising .
` Our Halvor was so idle and slothful that he never did anything at all , and he was so ragged that one hole ran into another all over his clothes .
Such a fellow as he was could never turn into such a man as you are , sir . '
In a short time the old woman had to go to the fireplace to stir the fire , and when the blaze lit up Halvor , as it used to do when he was at home raking up the ashes , she knew him again .
` Good Heavens !
is that you , Halvor ? '
said she , and such great gladness fell on the old parents that there were no bounds to it .
And now he had to relate everything that had befallen him , and the old woman was so delighted with him that she would take him up to the farm at once to show him to the girls who had formerly looked down on him so .
She went there first , and Halvor followed her .
When she got there she told them how Halvor had come home again , and now they should just see how magnificent he was .
` He looks like a prince , ' she said .
` We shall see that he is just the same ragamuffin that he was before , ' said the girls , tossing their heads .
At that same moment Halvor entered , and the girls were so astonished that they left their kirtles lying in the chimney corner , and ran away in nothing but their petticoats .
When they came in again they were so shamefaced that they hardly dared to look at Halvor , towards whom they had always been so proud and haughty before .
` Ay , ay !
you have always thought that you were so pretty and dainty that no one was equal to you , ' said Halvor , ` but you should just see the eldest Princess whom I set free .
You look like herds-women compared with her , and the second Princess is also much prettier than you ; but the youngest , who is my sweetheart , is more beautiful than either sun or moon .
I wish to Heaven they were here , and then you would see them . '
Scarcely had he said this before they were standing by his side , but then he was very sorrowful , for the words which they had said to him came to his mind .
Up at the farm a great feast was made ready for the Princesses , and much respect paid to them , but they would not stay there .
` We want to go down to your parents , ' they said to Halvor , ` so we will go out and look about us . '
He followed them out , and they came to a large pond outside the farm-house .
Very near the water there was a pretty green bank , and there the Princesses said they would sit down and while away an hour , for they thought that it would be pleasant to sit and look out over the water , they said .
There they sat down , and when they had sat for a short time the youngest Princess said , ' I may as well comb your hair a little , Halvor . '
So Halvor laid his head down on her lap , and she combed it , and it was not long before he fell asleep .
Then she took her ring from him and put another in its place , and then she said to her sisters : ` Hold me as I am holding you .
I would that we were at Soria Moria Castle . '
When Halvor awoke he knew that he had lost the Princesses , and began to weep and lament , and was so unhappy that he could not be comforted .
In spite of all his father 's and mother 's entreaties , he would not stay , but bade them farewell , saying that he would never see them more , for if he did not find the Princess again he did not think it worth while to live .
He again had three hundred dollars , which he put into his pocket and went on his way .
When he had walked some distance he met a man with a tolerably good horse .
Halvor longed to buy it , and began to bargain with the man .
` Well , I have not exactly been thinking of selling him , ' said the man , ` but if we could agree , perhaps -- ' Halvor inquired how much he wanted to have for the horse . '
I did not give much for him , and he is not worth much ; he is a capital horse to ride , but good for nothing at drawing ; but he will always be able to carry your bag of provisions and you too , if you walk and ride by turns . '
At last they agreed about the price , and Halvor laid his bag on the horse , and sometimes he walked and sometimes he rode .
In the evening he came to a green field , where stood a great tree , under which he seated himself .
Then he let the horse loose and lay down to sleep , but before he did that he took his bag off the horse .
At daybreak he set off again , for he did not feel as if he could take any rest .
So he walked and rode the whole day , through a great wood where there were many green places which gleamed very prettily among the trees .
He did not know where he was or whither he was going , but he never lingered longer in any place than was enough to let his horse get a little food when they came to one of these green spots , while he himself took out his bag of provisions .
So he walked and he rode , and it seemed to him that the wood would never come to an end .
But on the evening of the second day he saw a light shining through the trees .
` If only there were some people up there I might warm myself and get something to eat , ' thought Halvor .
When he got to the place where the light had come from , he saw a wretched little cottage , and through a small pane of glass he saw a couple of old folks inside .
They were very old , and as grey-headed as a pigeon , and the old woman had such a long nose that she sat in the chimney corner and used it to stir the fire .
` Good evening I good evening ! '
said the old hag ; ` but what errand have you that can bring you here ?
No Christian folk have been here for more than a hundred years . '
So Halvor told her that he wanted to get to Soria Moria Castle , and inquired if she knew the way thither .
` No , ' said the old woman , ` that I do not , but the Moon will be here presently , and I will ask her , and she will know .
She can easily see it , for she shines on all things . '
So when the Moon stood clear and bright above the tree-tops the old woman went out .
` Moon !
Moon ! '
she screamed .
` Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ? '
` No , ' said the Moon , ` that I ca n't , for when I shone there , there was a cloud before me . '
` Wait a little longer , ' said the old woman to Halvor , ` for the West Wind will presently be here , and he will know it , for he breathes gently or blows into every corner . '
` What !
have you a horse too ? '
she said when she came in again .
` Oh !
let the poor creature loose in our bit of fenced-in pasture , and do n't let it stand there starving at our very door .
But wo n't you exchange him with me ?
We have a pair of old boots here with which you can go fifteen quarters of a mile at each step .
You shall have them for the horse , and then you will be able to get sooner to Soria Moria Castle . '
Halvor consented to this at once , and the old woman was so delighted with the horse that she was ready to dance .
` For now I , too , shall be able to ride to church , ' she said .
Halvor could take no rest , and wanted to set off immediately ; but the old woman said that there was no need to hasten .
` Lie down on the bench and sleep a little , for we have no bed to offer you , ' said she , ` and I will watch for the coming of the West Wind . '
Ere long came the West Wind , roaring so loud that the walls creaked .
The old woman went out and cried : ` West Wind !
West Wind !
Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ?
Here is one who would go thither . '
` Yes , I know it well , ' said the West Wind . '
I am just on my way there to dry the clothes for the wedding which is to take place .
If he is fleet of foot he can go with me . '
Out ran Halvor .
` You will have to make haste if you mean to go with me , ' said the West Wind ; and away it went over hill and dale , and moor and morass , and Halvor had enough to do to keep up with it .
` Well , now I have no time to stay with you any longer , ' said the West Wind , ` for I must first go and tear down a bit of spruce fir before I go to the bleaching-ground to dry the clothes ; but just go along the side of the hill , and you will come to some girls who are standing there washing clothes , and then you will not have to walk far before you are at Soria Moria Castle . '
Shortly afterwards Halvor came to the girls who were standing washing , and they asked him if he had seen anything of the West Wind , who was to come there to dry the clothes for the wedding .
` Yes , ' said Halvor , ` he has only gone to break down a bit of spruce fir .
It wo n't be long before he is here . '
And then he asked them the way to Soria Moria Castle .
They put him in the right way , and when he came in front of the castle it was so full of horses and people that it swarmed with them .
But Halvor was so ragged and torn with following the West Wind through bushes and bogs that he kept on one side , and would not go among the crowd until the last day , when the feast was to be held at noon .
So when , as was the usage and custom , all were to drink to the bride and the young girls who were present , the cup-bearer filled the cup for each in turn , both bride and bridegroom , and knights and servants , and at last , after a very long time , he came to Halvor .
He drank their health , and then slipped the ring which the Princess had put on his finger when they were sitting by the waterside into the glass , and ordered the cup-bearer to carry the glass to the bride from him and greet her .
Then the Princess at once rose up from the table , and said , ` Who is most worthy to have one of us -- he who has delivered us from the Trolls or he who is sitting here as bridegroom ? '
There could be but one opinion as to that , everyone thought , and when Halvor heard what they said he was not long in flinging off his beggar 's rags and arraying himself as a bridegroom .
` Yes , he is the right one , ' cried the youngest Princess when she caught sight of him ; so she flung the other out of the window and held her wedding with Halvor .
-LRB- 2 -RRB- -LRB- 2 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
THE DEATH OF KOSHCHEI THE DEATHLESS IN a certain kingdom there lived a Prince Ivan .
He had three sisters .
The first was the Princess Marya , the second the Princess Olga , the third the Princess Anna .
When their father and mother lay at the point of death , they had thus enjoined their son : ` Give your sisters in marriage to the very first suitors who come to woo them .
Do n't go keeping them by you ! '
They died , and the Prince buried them , and then , to solace his grief , he went with his sisters into the garden green to stroll .
Suddenly the sky was covered by a black cloud ; a terrible storm arose .
` Let us go home , sisters ! '
he cried .
Hardly had they got into the palace , when the thunder pealed , the ceiling split open , and into the room where they were came flying a falcon bright .
The Falcon smote upon the ground , became a brave youth , and said : ` Hail , Prince Ivan !
Before I came as a guest , but now I have come as a wooer !
I wish to propose for your sister , the Princess Marya . '
` If you find favour in the eyes of my sister , I will not interfere with her wishes .
Let her marry you , in God 's name ! '
The Princess Marya gave her consent ; the Falcon married her and bore her away into his own realm .
Days follow days , hours chase hours ; a whole year goes by .
One day Prince Ivan and his two sisters went out to stroll in the garden green .
Again there arose a storm-cloud , with whirlwind and lightning .
` Let us go home , sisters ! '
cries the Prince .
Scarcely had they entered the palace when the thunder crashed , the roof burst into a blaze , the ceiling split in twain , and in flew an eagle .
The Eagle smote upon the ground and became a brave youth .
` Hail , Prince Ivan !
I Before I came as a guest , but now I have come as a wooer ! '
And he asked for the hand of the Princess Olga .
Prince Ivan replied : ` If you find favour in the eyes of the Princess Olga , then let her marry you .
I will not interfere with her liberty of choice . '
The Princess Olga gave her consent and married the Eagle .
The Eagle took her and carried her off to his own kingdom .
Another year went by .
Prince Ivan said to his youngest sister : ` Let us go out and stroll in the garden green ! '
They strolled about for a time .
Again there arose a storm-cloud , with whirlwind and lightning .
` Let us return home , sister ! '
said he .
They returned home , but they had n't had time to sit down when the thunder crashed , the ceiling split open , and in flew a raven .
The Raven smote upon the floor and became a brave youth .
The former youths had been handsome , but this one was handsomer still .
` Well , Prince Ivan !
Before I came as a guest , but now I have come as a wooer !
Give me the Princess Anna to wife . ' '
I wo n't interfere with my sister 's freedom .
If you gain her affections , let her marry you . '
So the Princess Anna married the Raven , and he bore her away into his own realm .
Prince Ivan was left alone .
A whole year he lived without his sisters ; then he grew weary , and said : ' I will set out in search of my sisters . '
He got ready for the journey , he rode and rode , and one day he saw a whole army lying dead on the plain .
He cried aloud , ` If there be a living man there , let him make answer !
Who has slain this mighty host ? '
There replied unto him a living man : ` All this mighty host has been slain by the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
Prince Ivan rode further on , and came to a white tent , and forth came to meet him the fair Princess Marya Morevna .
` Hail , Prince ! '
says she ; ` whither does God send you ?
and is it of your free will or against your will ? '
Prince Ivan replied , ` Not against their will do brave youths ride ! '
` Well , if your business be not pressing , tarry awhile in my tent . '
Thereat was Prince Ivan glad .
He spent two nights in the tent , and he found favour in the eyes of Marya Morevna , and she married him .
The fair Princess , Marya Morevna , carried him off into her own realm .
They spent some time together , and then the Princess took it into her head to go a warring .
So she handed over all the house-keeping affairs to Prince Ivan , and gave him these instructions : ` Go about everywhere , keep watch over everything ; only do not venture to look into that closet there . '
He could n't help doing so .
The moment Marya Morevna had gone he rushed to the closet , pulled open the door , and looked in -- there hung Koshchei the Deathless , fettered by twelve chains .
Then Koshchei entreated Prince Ivan , saying : ` Have pity upon me and give me to drink !
Ten years long have I been here in torment , neither eating nor drinking ; my throat is utterly dried up . '
The Prince gave him a bucketful of water ; he drank it up and asked for more , saying : ' A single bucket of water will not quench my thirst ; give me more ! '
The Prince gave him a second bucketful .
Koshchei drank it up and asked for a third , and when he had swallowed the third bucketful , he regained his former strength , gave his chains a shake , and broke all twelve at once .
` Thanks , Prince Ivan ! '
cried Koshchei the Deathless , ` now you will sooner see your own ears than Marya Morevna ! '
and out of the window he flew in the shape of a terrible whirlwind .
And he came up with the fair Princess Marya Morevna as she was going her way , laid hold of her and carried her off home with him .
But Prince Ivan wept full sore , and he arrayed himself and set out a-wandering , saying to himself , ` Whatever happens , I will go and look for Marya Morevna ! '
One day passed , another day passed ; at the dawn of the third day he saw a wondrous palace , and by the side of the palace stood an oak , and on the oak sat a falcon bright .
Down flew the Falcon from the oak , smote upon the ground , turned into a brave youth , and cried aloud : ` Ha , dear brother-in-law !
how deals the Lord with you ? '
Out came running the Princess Marya , joyfully greeted her brother Ivan , and began inquiring after his health , and telling him all about herself .
The Prince spent three days with them ; then he said : ' I can not abide with you ; I must go in search of my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' answered the Falcon .
` At all events leave with us your silver spoon .
We will look at it and remember you . '
So Prince Ivan left his silver spoon at the Falcon 's , and went on his way again .
On he went one day , on he went another day , and by the dawn of the third day he saw a palace still grander than the former one and hard by the palace stood an oak , and on the oak sat an eagle .
Down flew the Eagle from the oak , smote upon the ground , turned into a brave youth , and cried aloud : ` Rise up , Princess Olga !
Hither comes our brother dear ! '
The Princess Olga immediately ran to meet him , and began kissing him and embracing him , asking after his health , and telling him all about herself .
With them Prince Ivan stopped three days ; then he said : ' I can not stay here any longer .
I am going to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' replied the Eagle .
` Leave with us a silver fork .
We will look at it and remember you . '
He left a silver fork behind , and went his way .
He travelled one day , he travelled two days ; at daybreak on the third day he saw a palace grander than the first two , and near the palace stood an oak , and on the oak sat a raven .
Down flew the Raven from the oak , smote upon the ground , turned into a brave youth , and cried aloud : ` Princess Anna , come forth quickly I our brother is coming . '
Out ran the Princess Anna , greeted him joyfully , and began kissing and embracing him , asking after his health and telling him all about herself .
Prince Ivan stayed with them three days ; then he said : ` Farewell !
I am going to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' replied the Raven .
` Anyhow , leave your silver snuff-box with us .
We will look at it and remember you . '
The Prince handed over his silver snuff-box , took his leave , and went his way .
One day he went , another day he went , and on the third day he came to where Marya Morevna was .
She caught sight of her love , flung her arms around his neck , burst into tears , and exclaimed : ` Oh , Prince Ivan !
why did you disobey me and go looking into the closet and letting out Koshchei the Deathless ? '
` Forgive me , Marya Morevna !
Remember not the past ; much better fly with me while Koshchei the Deathless is out of sight .
Perhaps he wo n't catch us . '
So they got ready and fled .
Now Koshchei was out hunting .
Towards evening he was returning home , when his good steed stumbled beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ?
Scentest thou some ill ? '
The steed replied : ` Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . '
` Is it possible to catch them ? '
` It is possible to sow wheat , to wait till it grows up , to reap it and thresh it , to grind it to flour , to make five pies of it , to eat those pies , and then to start in pursuit -- and even then to be in time . '
Koshchei galloped off and caught up Prince Ivan .
` Now , ' says he , ` this time I will forgive you , in return for your kindness in giving me water to drink .
And a second time I will forgive you ; but the third time beware !
I will cut you to bits . '
Then he took Marya Morevna from him , and carried her off .
But Prince Ivan sat down on a stone and burst into tears .
He wept and wept -- and then returned back again to Marya Morevna .
Now Koshchei the Deathless happened not to be at home .
` Let us fly , Marya Morevna ! '
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
he will catch us . '
` Suppose he does catch us .
At all events we shall have spent an hour or two together . '
So they got ready and fled .
As Koshchei the Deathless was returning home , his good steed stumbled beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ?
Scentest thou some ill ? '
` Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . '
` Is it possible to catch them ? '
` It is possible to sow barley , to wait till it grows up , to reap it and thresh it , to brew beer , to drink ourselves drunk on it , to sleep our fill , and then to set off in pursuit -- and yet to be in time . '
Koshchei galloped off , caught up Prince Ivan : ` Did n't I tell you that you should not see Marya Morevna any more than your own ears ? '
And he took her away and carried her off home with him .
Prince Ivan was left there alone .
He wept and wept ; then he went back again after Marya Morevna .
Koshchei happened to be away from home at that moment .
` Let us fly , Marya Morevna ! '
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
he is sure to catch us and hew you in pieces . '
` Let him hew away !
I can not live without you .
So they got ready and fled .
Koshchei the Deathless was returning home when his good steed stumbled beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou ?
Scentest thou any ill ? '
` Prince Ivan has come and has carried off Marya Morevna . '
Koshchei galloped off , caught Prince Ivan , chopped him into little pieces , put them into a barrel , smeared it with pitch and bound it with iron hoops , and flung it into the blue sea .
But Marya Morevna he carried off home .
At that very time the silver articles turned black which Prince Ivan had left with his brothers-in-law .
` Ah ! '
said they , ` the evil is accomplished sure enough ! '
Then the Eagle hurried to the blue sea , caught hold of the barrel , and dragged it ashore ; the Falcon flew away for the Water of Life , and the Raven for the Water of Death .
Afterwards they all three met , broke open the barrel , took out the remains of Prince Ivan , washed them , and put them together in fitting order .
The Raven sprinkled them with the Water of Death -- the pieces joined together , the body became whole .
The Falcon sprinkled it with the Water of Life -- Prince Ivan shuddered , stood up , and said : ` Ah !
what a time I 've been sleeping ! '
` You 'd have gone on sleeping a good deal longer if it had n't been for us , ' replied his brothers-in-law .
` Now come and pay us a visit . '
` Not so , brothers ; I shall go and look for Marya Morevna . '
And when he had found her , he said to her : ` Find out from Koshchei the Deathless whence he got so good a steed . '
So Marya Morevna chose a favourable moment , and began asking Koshchei about it .
Koshchei replied : ` Beyond thrice nine lands , in the thirtieth kingdom , on the other side of the fiery river , there lives a Baba Yaga .
She has so good a mare that she flies right round the world on it every day .
And she has many other splendid mares .
I watched her herds for three days without losing a single mare , and in return for that the Baba Yaga gave me a foal . '
` But how did you get across the fiery river ? '
` Why , I 've a handkerchief of this kind -- when I wave it thrice on the right hand , there springs up a very lofty bridge , and the fire can not reach it . '
Marya Morevna listened to all this , and repeated it to Prince Ivan , and she carried off the handkerchief and gave it to him .
So he managed to get across the fiery river , and then went on to the Baba Yaga 's .
Long went he on without getting anything either to eat or to drink .
At last he came across an outlandish bird and its young ones .
Says Prince Ivan : ` I 'll eat one of these chickens . '
` Do n't eat it , Prince Ivan ! '
begs the outlandish bird ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
He went on farther and saw a hive of bees in the forest .
` I 'll get a bit of honeycomb , ' says he .
` Do n't disturb my honey , Prince Ivan ! '
exclaims the queen-bee ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
So he did n't disturb it , but went on .
Presently there met him a lioness with her cub .
` Anyhow , I 'll eat this lion cub , ' says he ; ` I 'm so hungry I feel quite unwell ! '
` Please let us alone , Prince Ivan ! '
begs the lioness ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
` Very well ; have it your own way , ' says he .
Hungry and faint he wandered on , walked farther and farther , and at last came to where stood the house of the Baba Yaga .
Round the house were set twelve poles in a circle , and on each of eleven of these poles was stuck a human head ; the twelfth alone remained unoccupied .
` Hail , granny ! '
` Hail , Prince Ivan !
wherefore have you come ?
Is it of your own accord , or on compulsion ? ' '
I have come to earn from you an heroic steed . '
` So be it , Prince !
You wo n't have to serve a year with me , but just three days .
If you take good care of my mares , I 'll give you an heroic steed .
But if you do n't -- why , then you must n't be annoyed at finding your head stuck on top of the last pole up there . '
Prince Ivan agreed to these terms .
The Baba Yaga gave him food and drink , and bade him set about his business .
But the moment he had driven the mares afield , they cocked up their tails , and away they tore across the meadows in all directions .
Before the Prince had time to look round they were all out of sight .
Thereupon he began to weep and to disquiet himself , and then he sat down upon a stone and went to sleep .
But when the sun was near its setting the outlandish bird came flying up to him , and awakened him , saying : ` Arise , Prince Ivan !
The mares are at home now . '
The Prince arose and returned home .
There the Baba Yaga was storming and raging at her mares , and shrieking : ` Whatever did ye come home for ? '
` How could we help coming home ? '
said they .
` There came flying birds from every part of the world , and all but pecked our eyes out . '
` Well , well !
to-morrow do n't go galloping over the meadows , but disperse amid the thick forests . '
Prince Ivan slept all night .
In the morning the Baba Yaga says to him : ` Mind , Prince !
if you do n't take good care of the mares , if you lose merely one of them -- your bold head will be stuck on that pole ! '
He drove the mares afield .
Immediately they cocked up their tails and dispersed among the thick forests .
Again did the Prince sit down on the stone , weep and weep , and then go to sleep .
The sun went down behind the forest .
Up came running the lioness .
` Arise , Prince Ivan !
The mares are all collected . '
Prince Ivan arose and went home .
More than ever did the Baba Yaga storm at her mares and shriek : ` Whatever did ye come back home for ? '
` How could we help coming back ?
Beasts of prey came running at us from all parts of the world , and all but tore us utterly to pieces . '
` Well , to-morrow run off into the blue sea . '
Again did Prince Ivan sleep through the night .
Next morning the Baba Yaga sent him forth to watch the mares .
` If you do n't take good care of them , ' says she , ` your bold head will be stuck on that pole ! '
He drove the mares afield .
Immediately they cocked up their tails , disappeared from sight , and fled into the blue sea .
There they stood , up to their necks in water .
Prince Ivan sat down on the stone , wept , and fell asleep .
But when the sun had set behind the forest , up came flying a bee , and said : ` Arise , Prince !
The mares are all collected .
But when you get home , do n't let the Baba Yaga set eyes on you , but go into the stable and hide behind the mangers .
There you will find a sorry colt rolling in the muck .
Do you steal it , and at the dead of night ride away from the house . '
Prince Ivan arose , slipped into the stable , and lay down behind the mangers , while the Baba Yaga was storming away at her mares and shrieking : ` Why did ye come back ? '
` How could we help coming back ?
There came flying bees in countless numbers from all parts of the world , and began stinging us on all sides till the blood came ! '
The Baba Yaga went to sleep .
In the dead of the night Prince Ivan stole the sorry colt , saddled it , jumped on its back , and galloped away to the fiery river .
When he came to that river he waved the handkerchief three times on the right hand , and suddenly , springing goodness knows whence , there hung across the river , high in the air , a splendid bridge .
The Prince rode across the bridge and waved the handkerchief twice only on the left hand ; there remained across the river a thin , ever so thin a bridge !
When the Baba Yaga got up in the morning the sorry colt was not to be seen !
Off she set in pursuit .
At full speed did she fly in her iron mortar , urging it on with the pestle , sweeping away her traces with the broom .
She dashed up to the fiery river , gave a glance , and said , ' A capital bridge ! '
She drove on to the bridge , but had only got half-way when the bridge broke in two , and the Baba Yaga went flop into the river .
There truly did she meet with a cruel death !
Prince Ivan fattened up the colt in the green meadows , and it turned into a wondrous steed .
Then he rode to where Marya Morevna was .
She came running out , and flung herself on his neck , crying : ` By what means has God brought you back to life ? '
` Thus and thus , ' says he .
` Now come along with me . ' '
I am afraid , Prince Ivan !
If Koshchei catches us you will be cut in pieces again . '
` No , he wo n't catch us !
I have a splendid heroic steed now ; it flies just like a bird . '
So they got on its back and rode away .
Koshchei the Deathless was returning home when his horse stumbled beneath him .
` What art thou stumbling for , sorry jade ?
Dost thou scent any ill ? '
` Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . '
` Can we catch them ? '
` God knows !
Prince Ivan has a horse now which is better than I. ' ` Well , I ca n't stand it , ' says Koshchei the Deathless . '
I will pursue . '
After a time he came up with Prince Ivan , lighted on the ground , and was going to chop him up with his sharp sword .
But at that moment Prince Ivan 's horse smote Koshchei the Deathless full swing with its hoof , and cracked his skull , and the Prince made an end of him with a club .
Afterwards the Prince heaped up a pile of wood , set fire to it , burnt Koshchei the Deathless on the pyre , and scattered his ashes to the wind .
Then Marya Morevna mounted Koshchei 's horse and Prince Ivan got on his own , and they rode away to visit first the Raven , and then the Eagle , and then the Falcon .
Wherever they went they met with a joyful greeting .
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
why , we never expected to see you again .
Well , it was n't for nothing that you gave yourself so much trouble .
Such a beauty as Marya Morevna one might search for all the world over -- and never find one like her ! '
And so they visited , and they feasted ; and afterwards they went off to their own realm .
-LRB- 3 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- Ralston .
THE BLACK THIEF AND KNIGHT OF THE GLEN .
IN times of yore there was a King and a Queen in the south of Ireland who had three sons , all beautiful children ; but the Queen , their mother , sickened unto death when they were yet very young , which caused great grief throughout the Court , particularly to the King , her husband , who could in no wise be comforted .
Seeing that death was drawing near her , she called the King to her and spoke as follows : ' I am now going to leave you , and as you are young and in your prime , of course after my death you will marry again .
Now all the request I ask of you is that you will build a tower in an island in the sea , wherein you will keep your three sons until they are come of age and fit to do for themselves ; so that they may not be under the power or jurisdiction of any other woman .
Neglect not to give them education suitable to their birth , and let them be trained up to every exercise and pastime requisite for king 's sons to learn .
This is all I have to say , so farewell . '
The King had scarce time , with tears in his eyes , to assure her she should be obeyed in everything , when she , turning herself in her bed , with a smile gave up the ghost .
Never was greater mourning seen than was throughout the Court and the whole kingdom ; for a better woman than the Queen , to rich and poor , was not to be found in the world .
She was interred with great pomp and magnificence , and the King , her husband , became in a manner inconsolable for the loss of her .
However , he caused the tower to be built and his sons placed in it , under proper guardians , according to his promise .
In process of time the lords and knights of the kingdom counselled the King -LRB- as he was young -RRB- to live no longer as he had done , but to take a wife ; which counsel prevailing , they chose him a rich and beautiful princess to be his consort -- a neighbouring King 's daughter , of whom he was very fond .
Not long after , the Queen had a fine son , which caused great feasting and rejoicing at the Court , insomuch that the late Queen , in a manner , was entirely forgotten .
That fared well , and King and Queen lived happy together for several years .
At length the Queen , having some business with the hen-wife , went herself to her , and , after a long conference passed , was taking leave of her , when the hen-wife prayed that if ever she should come back to her again she might break her neck .
The Queen , greatly incensed at such a daring insult from one of her meanest subjects , demanded immediately the reason , or she would have her put to death .
` It was worth your while , madam , ' says the hen-wife , ` to pay me well for it , for the reason I prayed so on you concerns you much . '
` What must I pay you ? '
asked the Queen .
` You must give me , ' says she , ` the full of a pack of wool , and I have an ancient crock which you must fill with butter , likewise a barrel which you must fill for me full of wheat . '
` How much wool will it take to the pack ? '
says the Queen .
` It will take seven herds of sheep , ' said she , ` and their increase for seven years . '
` How much butter will it take to fill your crock ? '
` Seven dairies , ' said she , ` and their increase for seven years . '
` And how much will it take to fill the barrel you have ? '
says the Queen .
` It will take the increase of seven barrels of wheat for seven years . '
` That is a great quantity , ' says the Queen ; ` but the reason must be extraordinary , and before I want it , I will give you all you demand . '
` Well , ' says the hen-wife , ` it is because you are so stupid that you do n't observe or find out those affairs that are so dangerous and hurtful to yourself and your child . '
` What is that ? '
says the Queen .
` Why , ' says she , ` the King your husband has three fine sons he had by the late Queen , whom he keeps shut up in a tower until they come of age , intending to divide the kingdom between them , and let your son push his fortune ; now , if you do n't find some means of destroying them ; your child and perhaps yourself will be left desolate in the end . '
` And what would you advise me to do ? '
said she ; ' I am wholly at a loss in what manner to act in this affair . '
` You must make known to the King , ' says the hen-wife , ` that you heard of his sons , and wonder greatly that he concealed them all this time from you ; tell him you wish to see them , and that it is full time for them to be liberated , and that you would be desirous he would bring them to the Court .
The King will then do so , and there will be a great feast prepared on that account , and also diversions of every sort to amuse the people ; and in these sports , ' said she , ` ask the King 's sons to play a game at cards with you , which they will not refuse .
Now , ' says the hen-wife , ` you must make a bargain , that if you win they must do whatever you command them , and if they win , that you must do whatever they command you to do ; this bargain must be made before the assembly , and here is a pack of cards , ' says she , ` that I am thinking you will not lose by . '
The Queen immediately took the cards , and , after returning the hen-wife thanks for her kind instruction , went back to the palace , where she was quite uneasy until she got speaking to the King in regard of his children ; at last she broke it off to him in a very polite and engaging manner , so that he could see no muster or design in it .
He readily consented to her desire , and his sons were sent for to the tower , who gladly came to Court , rejoicing that they were freed from such confinement .
They were all very handsome , and very expert in all arts and exercises , so that they gained the love and esteem of all that had seen them .
The Queen , more jealous with them than ever , thought it an age until all the feasting and rejoicing was over , that she might get making her proposal , depending greatly on the power of the hen-wife 's cards .
At length this royal assembly began to sport and play at all kinds of diversions , and the Queen very cunningly challenged the three Princes to play at cards with her , making bargain with them as she had been instructed .
They accepted the challenge , and the eldest son and she played the first game , which she won ; then the second son played , and she won that game likewise ; the third son and she then played the last game , and he won it , which sorely grieved her that she had not him in her power as well as the rest , being by far the handsomest and most beloved of the three .
However , everyone was anxious to hear the Queen 's commands in regard to the two Princes , not thinking that she had any ill design in her head against them .
Whether it was the hen-wife instructed her , or whether it was from her own knowledge , I can not tell ; but she gave out they must go and bring her the Knight of the Glen 's wild Steed of Bells , or they should lose their heads .
The young Princes were not in the least concerned , not knowing what they had to do ; but the whole Court was amazed at her demand , knowing very well that it was impossible for them ever to get the steed , as all that ever sought him perished in the attempt .
However , they could not retract the bargain , and the youngest Prince was desired to tell what demand he had on the Queen , as he had won his game .
` My brothers , ' says he , ` are now going to travel , and , as I understand , a perilous journey wherein they know not what road to take or what may happen them .
I am resolved , therefore , not to stay here , but to go with them , let what will betide ; and I request and command , according to my bargain , that the Queen shall stand on the highest tower of the palace until we come back -LRB- or find out that we are certainly dead -RRB- , with nothing but sheaf corn for her food and cold water for her drink , if it should be for seven years and longer . '
All things being now fixed , the three princes departed the Court in search of the Knight of the Glen 's palace , and travelling along the road they came up with a man who was a little lame , and seemed to be somewhat advanced in years ; they soon fell into discourse , and the youngest of the princes asked the stranger his name , or what was the reason he wore so remarkable a black cap as he saw on him . '
I am called , ' said he , ` the Thief of Sloan , and sometimes the Black Thief from my cap ; ` and so telling the prince the most of his adventures , he asked him again where they were bound for , or what they were about .
The prince , willing to gratify his request , told him their affairs from the beginning to the end .
` And now , ' said he , ` we are travelling , and do not know whether we are on the right road or not . '
` Ah !
my brave fellows , ' says the Black Thief , ` you little know the danger you run .
I am after that steed myself these seven years , and can never steal him on account of a silk covering he has on him in the stable , with sixty bells fixed to it , and whenever you approach the place he quickly observes it and shakes himself ; which , by the sound of the bells , not only alarms the prince and his guards , but the whole country round , so that it is impossible ever to get him , and those that are so unfortunate as to be taken by the Knight of the Glen are boiled in a red-hot fiery furnace . '
` Bless me , ' says the young prince , ` what will we do ?
If we return without the steed we will lose our heads , so I see we are ill fixed on both sides . '
` Well , ' says the Thief of Sloan , ` if it were my case I would rather die by the Knight than by the wicked Queen ; besides , I will go with you myself and show you the road , and whatever fortune you will have , I will take chance of the same . '
They returned him sincere thanks for his kindness , and he , being well acquainted with the road , in a short time brought them within view of the knight 's castle .
` Now , ' says he , ` we must stay here till night comes ; for I know all the ways of the place , and if there be any chance for it , it is when they are all at rest ; for the steed is all the watch the knight keeps there . '
Accordingly , in the dead hour of the night , the King 's three sons and the Thief of Sloan attempted the Steed of Bells in order to carry him away , but before they could reach the stables the steed neighed most terribly and shook himself so , and the bells rung with such noise , that the knight and all his men were up in a moment .
The Black Thief and the King 's sons thought to make their escape , but they were suddenly surrounded by the knight 's guards and taken prisoners ; where they were brought into that dismal part of the palace where the knight kept a furnace always boiling , in which he threw all offenders that ever came in his way , which in a few moments would entirely consume them .
` Audacious villains ! '
says the Knight of the Glen , ` how dare you attempt so bold an action as to steal my steed ?
See , now , the reward of your folly ; for your greater punishment I will not boil you all together , but one after the other , so that he that survives may witness the dire afflictions of his unfortunate companions . '
So saying he ordered his servants to stir up the fire : ` We will boil the eldest-looking of these young men first , ' said he , ` and so on to the last , which will be this old champion with the black cap .
He seems to be the captain , and looks as if he had come through many toils . ' '
I was as near death once as the prince is yet , ' says the Black Thief , ` and escaped ; and so will he too . '
` No , you never were , ' said the knight ; ` for he is within two or three minutes of his latter end . '
` But , ' says the Black Thief , ' I was within one moment of my death , and I am here yet . '
` How was that ? '
says the knight ; ' I would be glad to hear it , for it seems impossible . '
` If you think , sir knight , ' says the Black Thief , ` that the danger I was in surpasses that of this young man , will you pardon him his crime ? ' '
I will , ' says the knight , ` so go on with your story . ' '
I was , sir , ' says he , ' a very wild boy in my youth , and came through many distresses ; once in particular , as I was on my rambling , I was benighted and could find no lodging .
At length I came to an old kiln , and being much fatigued I went up and lay on the ribs .
I had not been long there when I saw three witches coming in with three bags of gold .
Each put their bags of gold under their heads , as if to sleep .
I heard one of them say to the other that if the Black Thief came on them while they slept , he would not leave them a penny .
I found by their discourse that everybody had got my name into their mouth , though I kept silent as death during their discourse .
At length they fell fast asleep , and then I stole softly down , and seeing some turf convenient , I placed one under each of their heads , and off I went , with their gold , as fast as I could . '
I had not gone far , ' continued the Thief of Sloan , ` until I saw a grey-hound , a hare , and a hawk in pursuit of me , and began to think it must be the witches that had taken the shapes in order that I might not escape them unseen either by land or water .
Seeing they did not appear in any formidable shape , I was more than once resolved to attack them , thinking that with my broad sword I could easily destroy them .
But considering again that it was perhaps still in their power to become alive again , I gave over the attempt and climbed with difficulty up a tree , bringing my sword in my hand and all the gold along with me .
However , when they came to the tree they found what I had done , and making further use of their hellish art , one of them was changed into a smith 's anvil and another into a piece of iron , of which the third soon made a hatchet .
Having the hatchet made , she fell to cutting down the tree , and in the course of an hour it began to shake with me .
At length it began to bend , and I found that one or two blows at the most would put it down .
I then began to think that my death was inevitable , considering that those who were capable of doing so much would soon end my life ; but just as she had the stroke drawn that would terminate my fate , the cock crew , and the witches disappeared , having resumed their natural shapes for fear of being known , and I got safe off with my bags of gold .
` Now , sir , ' says he to the Knight of the Glen , ` if that be not as great an adventure as ever you heard , to be within one blow of a hatchet of my end , and that blow even drawn , and after all to escape , I leave it to yourself . '
` Well , I can not say but it is very extraordinary , ' says the Knight of the Glen , ` and on that account pardon this young man his crime ; so stir up the fire , till I boil this second one . '
` Indeed , ' says the Black Thief , ' I would fain think he would not die this time either . '
` How so ? '
says the knight ; ` it is impossible for him to escape . ' '
I escaped death more wonderfully myself , ' says the Thief of Sloan , ` than if you had him ready to throw into the furnace , and I hope it will be the case with him likewise . '
` Why , have you been in another great danger ? '
says the knight . '
I would be glad to hear the story too , and if it be as wonderful as the last , I will pardon this young man as I did the other . '
` My way of living , sir , ' says the Black Thief , ` was not good , as I told you before ; and being at a certain time fairly run out of cash , and meeting with no enterprise worthy of notice , I was reduced to great straits .
At length a rich bishop died in the neighbourhood I was then in , and I heard he was interred with a great deal of jewels and rich robes upon him , all which I intended in a short time to be master of .
Accordingly that very night I set about it , and coming to the place , I understood he was placed at the further end of a long dark vault , which I slowly entered .
I had not gone in far until I heard a foot coming towards me with a quick pace , and although naturally bold and daring , yet , thinking of the deceased bishop and the crime I was engaged in , I lost courage , and ran towards the entrance of the vault .
I had retreated but a few paces when I observed , between me and the light , the figure of a tall black man standing in the entrance .
Being in great fear and not knowing how to pass , I fired a pistol at him , and he immediately fell across the entrance .
Perceiving he still retained the figure of a mortal man , I began to imagine that it could not be the bishop 's ghost ; recovering myself therefore from the fear I was in , I ventured to the upper end of the vault , where I found a large bundle , and upon further examination I found that the corpse was already rifled , and that which I had taken to be a ghost was no more than one of his own clergy .
I was then very sorry that I had the misfortune to kill him , but it then could not be helped .
I took up the bundle that contained everything belonging to the corpse that was valuable , intending to take my departure from this melancholy abode ; but just as I came to the mouth of the entrance I saw the guards of the place coming towards me , and distinctly heard them saying that they would look in the vault , for that the Black Thief would think little of robbing the corpse if he was anywhere in the place .
I did not then know in what manner to act , for if I was seen I would surely lose my life , as everybody had a look-out at that time , and because there was no person bold enough to come in on me .
I knew very well on the first sight of me that could be got , I would be shot like a dog .
However , I had not time to lose .
I took and raised up the man which I had killed , as if he was standing on his feet , and I , crouching behind him , bore him up as well as I could , so that the guards readily saw him as they came up to the vault .
Seeing the man in black , one of the men cried that was the Black Thief , and , presenting his piece , fired at the man , at which I let him fall , and crept into a little dark corner myself , that was at the entrance of the place .
When they saw the man fall , they ran all into the vault , and never stopped until they were at the end of it , for fear , as I thought , that there might be some others along with him that was killed .
But while they were busy inspecting the corpse and the vault to see what they could miss , I slipped out , and , once away , and still away ; but they never had the Black Thief in their power since . '
` Well , my brave fellow , ' says the Knight of the Glen , ' I see you have come through many dangers : you have freed these two princes by your stories ; but I am sorry myself that this young prince has to suffer for all .
Now , if you could tell me something as wonderful as you have told already , I would pardon him likewise ; I pity this youth and do not want to put him to death if I could help it . '
` That happens well , ' says the Thief of Sloan , ` for I like him best myself , and have reserved the most curious passage for the last on his account . '
` Well , then , ' says the knight , ` let us hear it . ' '
I was one day on my travels , ' says the Black Thief , ` and I came into a large forest , where I wandered a long time , and could not get out of it .
At length I came to a large castle , and fatigue obliged me to call in the same , where I found a young woman and a child sitting on her knee , and she crying .
I asked her what made her cry , and where the lord of the castle was , for I wondered greatly that I saw no stir of servants or any person about the place . '
`` It is well for you , '' says the young woman , `` that the lord of this castle is not at home at present ; for he is a monstrous giant , with but one eye on his forehead , who lives on human flesh .
He brought me this child , '' says she , `` I do not know where he got it , and ordered me to make it into a pie , and I can not help crying at the command . '' '
I told her that if she knew of any place convenient that I could leave the child safely I would do it , rather than it should be killed by such a monster .
` She told me of a house a distance off where I would get a woman who would take care of it .
`` But what will I do in regard of the pie ? '' '
`` Cut a finger off it , '' said I , `` and I will bring you in a young wild pig out of the forest , which you may dress as if it was the child , and put the finger in a certain place , that if the giant doubts anything about it you may know where to turn it over at the first , and when he sees it he will be fully satisfied that the pie is made of the child . ''
` She agreed to the scheme I proposed , and , cutting off the child 's finger , by her direction I soon had it at the house she told me of , and brought her the little pig in the place of it .
She then made ready the pie , and after eating and drinking heartily myself , I was just taking my leave of the young woman when we observed the giant coming through the castle gates . '
`` Bless me , '' said she , `` what will you do now ?
Run away and lie down among the dead bodies that he has in the room -LRB- showing me the place -RRB- , and strip off your clothes that he may not know you from the rest if he has occasion to go that way . '' '
I took her advice , and laid myself down among the rest , as if dead , to see how he would behave .
The first thing I heard was him calling for his pie .
When she set it down before him he swore it smelled like swine 's flesh , but knowing where to find the finger , she immediately turned it up , which fairly convinced him of the contrary .
The pie only served to sharpen his appetite , and I heard him sharpening his knife and saying he must have a collop or two , for he was not near satisfied .
But what was my terror when I heard the giant groping among the bodies , and , fancying myself , cut the half of my hip off , and took it with him to be roasted .
You may be certain I was in great pain , but the fear of being killed prevented me from making any complaint .
However , when he had eaten all he began to drink hot liquors in great abundance , so that in a short time he could not hold up his head , but threw himself on a large creel he had made for the purpose , and fell fast asleep .
When I heard him snoring , as I was I went up and caused the woman to bind my wound with a handkerchief ; and , taking the giant 's spit , reddened it in the fire , and ran it through the eye , but was not able to kill him .
` However , I left the spit sticking in his head , and took to my heels ; but I soon found he was in pursuit of me , although blind ; and having an enchanted ring he threw it at me , and it fell on my big toe and remained fastened to it .
` The giant then called to the ring , where it was , and to my great surprise it made him answer on my foot ; and he , guided by the same , made a leap at me which I had the good luck to observe , and fortunately escaped the danger .
However , I found running was of no use in saving me , as long as I had the ring on my foot ; so I took my sword and cut off the toe it was fastened on , and threw both into a large fish-pond that was convenient .
The giant called again to the ring , which by the power of enchantment always made him answer ; but he , not knowing what I had done , imagined it was still on some part of me , and made a violent leap to seize me , when he went into the pond , over head and ears , and was drowned .
Now , sir knight , ' says the Thief of Sloan , ` you see what dangers I came through and always escaped ; but , indeed , I am lame for the want of my toe ever since . '
` My lord and master , ' says an old woman that was listening all the time , ` that story is but too true , as I well know , for I am the very woman that was in the giant 's castle , and you , my lord , the child that I was to make into a pie ; and this is the very man that saved your life , which you may know by the want of your finger that was taken off , as you have heard , to deceive the giant . '
The Knight of the Glen , greatly surprised at what he had heard the old woman tell , and knowing he wanted his finger from his childhood , began to understand that the story was true enough .
` And is this my deliverer ? '
says he . '
O brave fellow , I not only pardon you all , but will keep you with myself while you live , where you shall feast like princes , and have every attendance that I have myself . '
They all returned thanks on their knees , and the Black Thief told him the reason they attempted to steal the Steed of Bells , and the necessity they were under in going home .
` Well , ' says the Knight of the Glen , ` if that 's the case I bestow you my steed rather than this brave fellow should die ; so you may go when you please , only remember to call and see me betimes , that we may know each other well . '
They promised they would , and with great joy they set off for the King their father 's palace , and the Black Thief along with them .
The wicked Queen was standing all this time on the tower , and , hearing the bells ringing at a great distance off , knew very well it was the princes coming home , and the steed with them , and through spite and vexation precipitated herself from the tower and was shattered to pieces .
The three princes lived happy and well during their father 's reign , and always keeping the Black Thief along with them ; but how they did after the old King 's death is not known .
-LRB- 4 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- The Hibernian Tales .
THE MASTER THIEF THERE was once upon a time a husbandman who had three sons .
He had no property to bequeath to them , and no means of putting them in the way of getting a living , and did not know what to do , so he said that they had his leave to take to anything they most fancied , and go to any place they best liked .
He would gladly accompany them for some part of their way , he said , and that he did .
He went with them till they came to a place where three roads met , and there each of them took his own way , and the father bade them farewell and returned to his own home again .
What became of the two elder I have never been able to discover , but the youngest went both far and wide .
It came to pass , one night , as he was going through a great wood , that a terrible storm came on .
It blew so hard and rained so heavily that he could scarcely keep his eyes open , and before he was aware of it he had got quite out of the track , and could neither find road nor path .
But he went on , and at last he saw a light far away in the wood .
Then he thought he must try and get to it , and after a long , long time he did reach it .
There was a large house , and the fire was burning so brightly inside that he could tell that the people were not in bed .
So he went in , and inside there was an old woman who was busy about some work .
` Good evening , mother ! '
said the youth .
` Good evening ! '
said the old woman .
` Hutetu !
it is terrible weather outside to-night , ' said the young fellow .
` Indeed it is , ' said the old woman .
` Can I sleep here , and have shelter for the night ? '
asked the youth .
` It would n't be good for you to sleep here , ' said the old hag , ` for if the people of the house come home and find you , they will kill both you and me . '
` What kind of people are they then , who dwell here ? '
said the youth .
` Oh !
robbers , and rabble of that sort , ' said the old woman ; ` they stole me away when I was little , and I have had to keep house for them ever since . ' '
I still think I will go to bed , all the same , ' said the youth .
` No matter what happens , I 'll not go out to-night in such weather as this . '
` Well , then , it will be the worse for yourself , ' said the old woman .
The young man lay down in a bed which stood near , but he dared not go to sleep : and it was better that he did n't , for the robbers came , and the old woman said that a young fellow who was a stranger had come there , and she had not been able to get him to go away again .
` Did you see if he had any money ? '
said the robbers .
` He 's not one to have money , he is a tramp !
If he has a few clothes to his back , that is all . '
Then the robbers began to mutter to each other apart about what they should do with him , whether they should murder him , or what else they should do .
In the meantime the boy got up and began to talk to them , and ask them if they did not want a man-servant , for he could find pleasure enough in serving them .
` Yes , ' said they , ` if you have a mind to take to the trade that we follow , you may have a place here . '
` It 's all the same to me what trade I follow , ' said the youth , ` for when I came away from home my father gave me leave to take to any trade I fancied . '
` Have you a fancy for stealing , then ? '
said the robbers .
` Yes , ' said the boy , for he thought that was a trade which would not take long to learn .
Not very far off there dwelt a man who had three oxen , one of which he was to take to the town to sell .
The robbers had heard of this , so they told the youth that if he were able to steal the ox from him on the way , without his knowing , and without doing him any harm , he should have leave to be their servant-man .
So the youth set off , taking with him a pretty shoe with a silver buckle that was lying about in the house .
He put this in the road by which the man must go with his ox , and then went into the wood and hid himself under a bush .
When the man came up he at once saw the shoe .
` That 's a brave shoe , ' said he .
` If I had but the fellow to it , I would carry it home with me , and then I should put my old woman into a good humour for once . '
For he had a wife who was so cross and ill-tempered that the time between the beatings she gave him was very short .
But then he bethought himself that he could do nothing with one shoe if he had not the fellow to it , so he journeyed onwards and let it lie where it was .
Then the youth picked up the shoe and hurried off away through the wood as fast as he was able , to get in front of the man , and then put the shoe in the road before him again .
When the man came with the ox and saw the shoe , he was quite vexed at having been so stupid as to leave the fellow to it lying where it was , instead of bringing it on with him . '
I will just run back again and fetch it now , ' he said to himself , ` and then I shall take back a pair of good shoes to the old woman , and she may perhaps throw a kind word to me for once . '
So he went and searched and searched for the other shoe for a long , long time , but no shoe was to be found , and at last he was forced to go back with the one which he had .
In the meantime the youth had taken the ox and gone off with it .
When the man got there and found that his ox was gone , he began to weep and wail , for he was afraid that when his old woman got to know she would be the death of him .
But all at once it came into his head to go home and get the other ox , and drive it to the town , and take good care that his old wife knew nothing about it .
So he did this ; he went home and took the ox without his wife 's knowing about it , and went on his way to the town with it .
But the robbers they knew it well , because they got out their magic .
So they told the youth that if he could take this ox also without the man knowing anything about it , and without doing him any hurt , he should then be on an equality with them .
` Well , that will not be a very hard thing to do , ' thought the youth .
This time he took with him a rope and put it under his arms and tied himself up to a tree , which hung over the road that the man would have to take .
So the man came with his ox , and when he saw the body hanging there he felt a little queer .
` What a hard lot yours must have been to make you hang yourself ! '
said he .
` Ah , well !
you may hang there for me ; I ca n't breathe life into you again . '
So on he went with his ox .
Then the youth sprang down from the tree , ran by a short cut and got before him , and once more hung himself up on a tree in the road before the man .
` How I should like to know if you really were so sick at heart that you hanged yourself there , or if it is only a hobgoblin that 's before me ! '
said the man .
` Ah , well !
you may hang there for me , whether you are a hobgoblin or not , ' and on he went with his ox .
Once more the youth did just as he had done twice already ; jumped down from the tree , ran by a short cut through the wood , and again hanged himself in the very middle of the road before him .
But when the man once more saw this he said to himself , ` What a bad business this is !
Can they all have been so heavy-hearted that they have all three hanged themselves ?
No , I ca n't believe that it is anything but witchcraft !
But I will know the truth , ' he said ; ` if the two others are still hanging there it is true but if they are not it 's nothing else but witchcraft . '
So he tied up his ox and ran back to see if they really were hanging there .
While he was going , and looking up at every tree as he went , the youth leapt down and took his ox and went off with it .
Any one may easily imagine what a fury the man fell into when he came back and saw that his ox was gone .
He wept and he raged , but at last he took comfort and told himself that the best thing to do was to go home and take the third ox , without letting his wife know anything about it , and then try to sell it so well that he got a good sum of money for it .
So he went home and took the third ox , and drove it off without his wife knowing anything about it .
But the robbers knew all about it , and they told the youth that if he could steal this as he had stolen the two others , he should be master of the whole troop .
So the youth set out and went to the wood , and when the man was coming along with the ox he began to bellow loudly , just like a great ox somewhere inside the wood .
When the man heard that he was right glad , for he fancied he recognised the voice of his big bullock , and thought that now he should find both of them again .
So he tied up the third , and ran away off the road to look for them in the wood .
In the meantime the youth went away with the third ox .
When the man returned and found that he had lost that too , he fell into such a rage that there was no bounds to it .
He wept and lamented , and for many days he did not dare to go home again , for he was afraid that the old woman would slay him outright .
The robbers , also , were not very well pleased at this , for they were forced to own that the youth was at the head of them all .
So one day they made up their minds to set to work to do something which it was not in his power to accomplish , and they all took to the road together , and left him at home alone .
When they were well out of the house , the first thing that he did was to drive the oxen out on the road , whereupon they all ran home again to the man from whom he had stolen them , and right glad was the husbandman to see them .
Then he brought out all the horses the robbers had , and loaded them with the most valuable things which he could find -- vessels of gold and of silver , and clothes and other magnificent things -- and then he told the old woman to greet the robbers from him and thank them from him , and say that he had gone away , and that they would have a great deal of difficulty in finding him again , and with that he drove the horses out of the courtyard .
After a long , long time he came to the road on which he was travelling when he came to the robbers .
And when he had got very near home , and was in sight of the house where his father lived , he put on a uniform which he had found among the things he had taken from the robbers , and which was made just like a general 's , and drove into the yard just as if he were a great man .
Then he entered the house and asked if he could find a lodging there .
` No , indeed you ca n't ! '
said his father .
` How could I possibly be able to lodge such a great gentleman as you ?
It is all that I can do to find clothes and bedding for myself , and wretched they are . '
` You were always a hard man , ' said the youth , ` and hard you are still if you refuse to let your own son come into your house . '
` Are you my son ? '
said the man .
` Do you not know me again then ? '
said the youth .
Then he recognised him and said , ` But what trade have you taken to that has made you such a great man in so short a time ? '
` Oh , that I will tell you , ' answered the youth .
` You said that I might take to anything I liked , so I apprenticed myself to some thieves and robbers , and now I have served my time and have become Master Thief . '
Now the Governor of the province lived by his father 's cottage , and this Governor had such a large house and so much money that he did not even know how much it was , and he had a daughter too who was both pretty and dainty , and good and wise .
So the Master Thief was determined to have her to wife , and told his father that he was to go to the Governor , and ask for his daughter for him .
` If he asks what trade I follow , you may say that I am a Master Thief , ' said he . '
I think you must be crazy , ' said the man , ` for you ca n't be in your senses if you think of anything so foolish . '
` You must go to the Governor and beg for his daughter -- there is no help , ' said the youth .
` But I dare not go to the Governor and say this .
He is so rich and has so much wealth of all kinds , ' said the man .
` There is no help for it , ' said the Master Thief ; ` go you must , whether you like it or not .
If I ca n't get you to go by using good words , I will soon make you go with bad ones . '
But the man was still unwilling , so the Master Thief followed him , threatening him with a great birch stick , till he went weeping and wailing through the door to the Governor of the province .
` Now , my man , and what 's amiss with you ? '
said the Governor .
So he told him that he had three sons who had gone away one day , and how he had given them permission to go where they chose , and take to whatsoever work they fancied .
` Now , ' he said , ` the youngest of them has come home , and has threatened me till I have come to you to ask for your daughter for him , and I am to say that he is a Master Thief , ' and again the man fell a-weeping and lamenting .
` Console yourself , my man , ' said the Governor , laughing .
` You may tell him from me that he must first give me some proof of this .
If he can steal the joint off the spit in the kitchen on Sunday , when every one of us is watching it , he shall have my daughter .
Will you tell him that ? '
The man did tell him , and the youth thought it would be easy enough to do it .
So he set himself to work to catch three hares alive , put them in a bag , clad himself in some old rags so that he looked so poor and wretched that it was quite pitiable to see him , and in this guise on Sunday forenoon he sneaked into the passage with his bag , like any beggar boy .
The Governor himself and every one in the house was in the kitchen , keeping watch over the joint .
While they were doing this the youth let one of the hares slip out of his bag , and off it set and began to run round the yard .
` Just look at that hare , ' said the people in the kitchen , and wanted to go out and catch it .
The Governor saw it too , but said , ` Oh , let it go !
it 's no use to think of catching a hare when it 's running away . '
It was not long before the youth let another hare out , and the people in the kitchen saw this too , and thought that it was the same .
So again they wanted to go out and catch it , but the Governor again told them that it was of no use to try .
Very soon afterwards , however , the youth let slip the third hare , and it set off and ran round and round the courtyard .
The people in the kitchen saw this too , and believed that it was still the same hare that was running about , so they wanted to go out and catch it .
` It 's a remarkably fine hare ! '
said the Governor .
` Come and let us see if we can get hold of it . '
So out he went , and the others with him , and away went the hare , and they after it , in real earnest .
In the meantime , however , the Master Thief took the joint and ran off with it , and whether the Governor got any roast meat for his dinner that day I know not , but I know that he had no roast hare , though he chased it till he was both hot and tired .
At noon came the Priest , and when the Governor had told him of the trick played by the Master Thief there was no end to the ridicule he cast on the Governor .
` For my part , ' said the Priest , ' I ca n't imagine myself being made a fool of by such a fellow as that ! '
` Well , I advise you to be careful , ' said the Governor , ` for he may be with you before you are at all aware . '
But the Priest repeated what he had said , and mocked the Governor for having allowed himself to be made such a fool of .
Later in the afternoon the Master Thief came and wanted to have the Governor 's daughter as he had promised .
` You must first give some more samples of your skill , ' said the Governor , trying to speak him fair , ` for what you did to-day was no such very great thing after all .
Could n't you play off a really good trick on the Priest ?
for he is sitting inside there and calling me a fool for having let myself be taken in by such a fellow as you . '
` Well , it would n't be very hard to do that , ' said the Master Thief .
So he dressed himself up like a bird , and threw a great white sheet over himself ; broke off a goose 's wings , and set them on his back ; and in this attire climbed into a great maple tree which stood in the Priest 's garden .
So when the Priest returned home in the evening the youth began to cry , ` Father Lawrence !
Father Lawrence !
` for the Priest was called Father Lawrence .
` Who is calling me ? '
said the Priest . '
I am an angel sent to announce to thee that because of thy piety thou shalt be taken away alive into heaven , ' said the Master Thief .
` Wilt thou hold thyself in readiness to travel away next Monday night ?
for then will I come and fetch thee , and bear thee away with me in a sack , and thou must lay all thy gold and silver , and whatsoever thou may ` st possess of this world 's wealth , in a heap in thy best parlour . '
So Father Lawrence fell down on his knees before the angel and thanked him , and the following Sunday he preached a farewell sermon , and gave out that an angel had come down into the large maple tree in his garden , and had announced to him that , because of his righteousness , he should be taken up alive into heaven , and as he thus preached and told them this everyone in the church , old or young , wept .
On Monday night the Master Thief once more came as an angel , and before the Priest was put into the sack he fell on his knees and thanked him ; but no sooner was the Priest safely inside it than the Master Thief began to drag him away over stocks and stones .
` Oh !
oh !
` cried the Priest in the sack .
` Where are you taking me ? '
` This is the way to heaven .
The way to heaven is not an easy one , ' said the Master Thief , and dragged him along till he all but killed him .
At last he flung him into the Governor 's goose-house , and the geese began to hiss and peck at him , till he felt more dead than alive .
` Oh !
oh !
oh !
Where am I now ? '
asked the Priest .
` Now you are in Purgatory , ' said the Master Thief , and off he went and took the gold and the silver and all the precious things which the Priest had laid together in his best parlour .
Next morning , when the goose-girl came to let out the geese , she heard the Priest bemoaning himself as he lay in the sack in the goose-house .
` Oh , heavens !
who is that , and what ails you ? '
said she .
` Oh , ' said the Priest , ` if you are an angel from heaven do let me out and let me go back to earth again , for no place was ever so bad as this -- the little fiends nip me so with their tongs . ' '
I am no angel , ' said the girl , and helped the Priest out of the sack . '
I only look after the Governor 's geese , that 's what I do , and they are the little fiends which have pinched your reverence . '
` This is the Master Thief 's doing !
Oh , my gold and my silver and my best clothes ! '
shrieked the Priest , and , wild with rage , he ran home so fast that the goose-girl thought he had suddenly gone mad .
When the Governor learnt what had happened to the Priest he laughed till he nearly killed himself , but when the Master Thief came and wanted to have his daughter according to promise , he once more gave him nothing but fine words , and said , ` You must give me one more proof of your skill , so that I can really judge of your worth .
I have twelve horses in my stable , and I will put twelve stable boys in it , one on each horse .
If you are clever enough to steal the horses from under them , I will see what I can do for you . '
` What you set me to do can be done , ' said the Master Thief , ` but am I certain to get your daughter when it is ? '
` Yes ; if you can do that I will do my best for you , ' said the Governor .
So the Master Thief went to a shop , and bought enough brandy to fill two pocket flasks , and he put a sleeping drink into one of these , but into the other he poured brandy only .
Then he engaged eleven men to lie that night in hiding behind the Governor 's stable .
After this , by fair words and good payment , he borrowed a ragged gown and a jerkin from an aged woman , and then , with a staff in his hand and a poke on his back , he hobbled off as evening came on towards the Governor 's stable .
The stable boys were just watering the horses for the night , and it was quite as much as they could do to attend to that .
` What on earth do you want here ? '
said one of them to the old woman .
` Oh dear !
oh dear !
How cold it is ! '
she said , sobbing , and shivering with cold .
` Oh dear !
oh dear !
it 's cold enough to freeze a poor old body to death ! '
and she shivered and shook again , and said , ` For heaven 's sake give me leave to stay here and sit just inside the stable door . '
` You will get nothing of the kind !
Be off this moment !
If the Governor were to catch sight of you here , he would lead us a pretty dance , ' said one .
` Oh !
what a poor helpless old creature ! '
said another , who felt sorry for her .
` That poor old woman can do no harm to anyone .
She may sit there and welcome . '
The rest of them thought that she ought not to stay , but while they were disputing about this and looking after the horses , she crept farther and farther into the stable , and at last sat down behind the door , and when once she was inside no one took any more notice of her .
As the night wore on the stable boys found it rather cold work to sit still on horseback .
` Hutetu !
But it is fearfully cold ! '
said one , and began to beat his arms backwards and forwards across his breast .
` Yes , I am so cold that my teeth are chattering , ' said another .
` If one had but a little tobacco , ' said a third .
Well , one of them had a little , so they shared it among them , though there was very little for each man , but they chewed it .
This was some help to them , but very soon they were just as cold as before .
` Hutetu ! '
said one of them , shivering again .
` Hutetu ! '
said the old woman , gnashing her teeth together till they chattered inside her mouth ; and then she got out the flask which contained nothing but brandy , and her hands trembled so that she shook the bottle about , and when she drank it made a great gulp in her throat .
` What is that you have in your flask , old woman ? '
asked one of the stable boys .
` Oh , it 's only a little drop of brandy , your honour , ' she said .
` Brandy !
What !
Let me have a drop !
Let me have a drop ! '
screamed all the twelve at once .
` Oh , but what I have is so little , ' whimpered the old woman .
` It will not even wet your mouths . '
But they were determined to have it , and there was nothing to be done but give it ; so she took out the flask with the sleeping drink and put it to the lips of the first of them ; and now she shook no more , but guided the flask so that each of them got just as much as he ought , and the twelfth had not done drinking before the first was already sitting snoring .
Then the Master Thief flung off his beggar 's rags , and took one stable boy after the other and gently set him astride on the partitions which divided the stalls , and then he called his eleven men who were waiting outside , and they rode off with the Governor 's horses .
In the morning when the Governor came to look after his stable boys they were just beginning to come to again .
They were driving their spurs into the partition till the splinters flew about , and some of the boys fell off , and some still hung on and sat looking like fools .
` Ah , well , ' said the Governor , ` it is easy to see who has been here ; but what a worthless set of fellows you must be to sit here and let the Master Thief steal the horses from under you ! '
And they all got a beating for not having kept watch better .
Later in the day the Master Thief came and related what he had done , and wanted to have the Governor 's daughter as had been promised .
But the Governor gave him a hundred dollars , and said that he must do something that was better still .
` Do you think you can steal my horse from under me when I am out riding on it ? '
said he .
` Well , it might be done , ' said the Master Thief , ` if I were absolutely certain that I should get your daughter . '
So the Governor said that he would see what he could do , and then he said that on a certain day he would ride out to a great common where they drilled the soldiers .
So the Master Thief immediately got hold of an old worn-out mare , and set himself to work to make a collar for it of green withies and branches of broom ; bought a shabby old cart and a great cask , and then he told a poor old beggar woman that he would give her ten dollars if she would get into the cask and keep her mouth wide-open beneath the tap-hole , into which he was going to stick his finger .
No harm should happen to her , he said ; she should only be driven about a little , and if he took his finger out more than once , she should have ten dollars more .
Then he dressed himself in rags , dyed himself with soot , and put on a wig and a great beard of goat 's hair , so that it was impossible to recognise him , and went to the parade ground , where the Governor had already been riding about a long time .
When the Master Thief got there the mare went along so slowly and quietly that the cart hardly seemed to move from the spot .
The mare pulled it a little forward , and then a little back , and then it stopped quite short .
Then the mare pulled a little forward again , and it moved with such difficulty that the Governor had not the least idea that this was the Master Thief .
He rode straight up to him , and asked if he had seen anyone hiding anywhere about in a wood that was close by .
` No , ' said the man , ` that have I not . '
` Hark you , ' said the Governor .
` If you will ride into that wood , and search it carefully to see if you can light upon a fellow who is hiding in there , you shall have the loan of my horse and a good present of money for your trouble . ' '
I am not sure that I can do it , ' said the man , ` for I have to go to a wedding with this cask of mead which I have been to fetch , and the tap has fallen out on the way , so now I have to keep my finger in the tap-hole as I drive . '
` Oh , just ride off , ' said the Governor , ` and I will look after the cask and the horse too . '
So the man said that if he would do that he would go , but he begged the Governor to be very careful to put his finger into the tap-hole the moment he took his out .
So the Governor said that he would do his very best , and the Master Thief got on the Governor 's horse .
But time passed , and it grew later and later , and still the man did not come back , and at last the Governor grew so weary of keeping his finger in the tap-hole that he took it out .
` Now I shall have ten dollars more ! '
cried the old woman inside the cask ; so he soon saw what kind of mead it was , and set out homewards .
When he had gone a very little way he met his servant bringing him the horse , for the Master Thief had already taken it home .
The following day he went to the Governor and wanted to have his daughter according to promise .
But the Governor again put him off with fine words , and only gave him three hundred dollars , saying that he must do one more masterpiece of skill , and if he were but able to do that he should have her .
Well , the Master Thief thought he might if he could hear what it was .
` Do you think you can steal the sheet off our bed , and my wife 's night-gown ? '
said the Governor .
` That is by no means impossible , ' said the Master Thief . '
I only wish I could get your daughter as easily . '
So late at night the Master Thief went and cut down a thief who was hanging on the gallows , laid him on his own shoulders , and took him away with him .
Then he got hold of a long ladder , set it up against the Governor 's bedroom window , and climbed up and moved the dead man 's head up and down , just as if he were some one who was standing outside and peeping in .
` There 's the Master Thief , mother ! '
said the Governor , nudging his wife .
` Now I 'll just shoot him , that I will ! '
So he took up a rifle which he had laid at his bedside .
` Oh no , you must not do that , ' said his wife ; ` you yourself arranged that he was to come here . '
` Yes , mother , I will shoot him , ' said he , and lay there aiming , and then aiming again , for no sooner was the head up and he caught sight of it than it was gone again .
At last he got a chance and fired , and the dead body fell with a loud thud to the ground , and down went the Master Thief too , as fast as he could .
` Well , ' said the Governor , ' I certainly am the chief man about here , but people soon begin to talk , and it would be very unpleasant if they were to see this dead body ; the best thing that I can do is to go out and bury him . '
` Just do what you think best , father , ' said his wife .
So the Governor got up and went downstairs , and as soon as he had gone out through the door , the Master Thief stole in and went straight upstairs to the woman .
` Well , father dear , ' said she , for she thought it was her husband .
` Have you got done already ? '
` Oh yes , I only put him into a hole , ' said he , ` and raked a little earth over him ; that 's all I have been able to do to-night , for it is fearful weather outside .
I will bury him better afterwards , but just let me have the sheet to wipe myself with , for he was bleeding , and I have got covered with blood with carrying him . '
So she gave him the sheet .
` You will have to let me have your night-gown too , ' he said , ` for I begin to see that the sheet wo n't be enough . '
Then she gave him her night-gown , but just then it came into his head that he had forgotten to lock the door , and he was forced to go downstairs and do it before he could lie down in bed again .
So off he went with the sheet , and the night-gown too .
An hour later the real Governor returned .
` Well , what a time it has taken to lock the house door , father ! '
said his wife , ` and what have you done with the sheet and the night-gown ? '
` What do you mean ? '
asked the Governor .
` Oh , I am asking you what you have done with the night-gown and sheet that you got to wipe the blood off yourself with , ' said she .
` Good heavens ! '
said the Governor , ` has he actually got the better of me again ? '
When day came the Master Thief came too , and wanted to have the Governor 's daughter as had been promised , and the Governor dared do no otherwise than give her to him , and much money besides , for he feared that if he did not the Master Thief might steal the very eyes out of his head , and that he himself would be ill spoken of by all men .
The Master Thief lived well and happily from that time forth , and whether he ever stole any more or not I can not tell you , but if he did it was but for pastime .
-LRB- 5 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
BROTHER AND SISTER BROTHER took sister by the hand and said : ` Look here ; we have n't had one single happy hour since our mother died .
That stepmother of ours beats us regularly every day , and if we dare go near her she kicks us away .
We never get anything but hard dry crusts to eat -- why , the dog under the table is better off than we are .
She does throw him a good morsel or two now and then .
Oh dear !
if our own dear mother only knew all about it !
Come along , and let us go forth into the wide world together . '
So off they started through fields and meadows , over hedges and ditches , and walked the whole day long , and when it rained sister said : ` Heaven and our hearts are weeping together . '
Towards evening they came to a large forest , and were so tired out with hunger and their long walk , as well as all their trouble , that they crept into a hollow tree and soon fell fast asleep .
Next morning , when they woke up , the sun was already high in the heavens and was shining down bright and warm into the tree .
Then said brother : ` I 'm so thirsty , sister ; if I did but know where to find a little stream , I 'd go and have a drink .
I do believe I hear one . '
He jumped up , took sister by the hand , and they set off to hunt for the brook .
Now their cruel stepmother was in reality a witch , and she knew perfectly well that the two children had run away .
She had crept secretly after them , and had cast her spells over all the streams in the forest .
Presently the children found a little brook dancing and glittering over the stones , and brother was eager to drink of it , but as it rushed past sister heard it murmuring : ` Who drinks of me will be a tiger !
who drinks of me will be a tiger ! '
So she cried out , ` Oh !
dear brother , pray do n't drink , or you 'll be turned into a wild beast and tear me to pieces . '
Brother was dreadfully thirsty , but he did not drink .
` Very well , ' said he , ` I 'll wait till we come to the next spring . '
When they came to the second brook , sister heard it repeating too : ` Who drinks of me will be a wolf I who drinks of me will be a wolf ! '
And she cried , ` Oh !
brother , pray do n't drink here either , or you 'll be turned into a wolf and eat me up . '
Again brother did not drink , but he said : ` Well , I 'll wait a little longer till we reach the next stream , but then , whatever you may say , I really must drink , for I can bear this thirst no longer . '
And when they got to the third brook , sister heard it say as it rushed past : ` Who drinks of me will be a roe !
who drinks of me will be a roe ! '
And she begged , ` Ah !
brother , do n't drink yet , or you 'll become a roe and run away from me . '
But her brother was already kneeling by the brook and bending over it to drink , and , sure enough , no sooner had his lips touched the water than he fell on the grass transformed into a little Roebuck .
Sister cried bitterly over her poor bewitched brother , and the little Roe wept too , and sat sadly by her side .
At last the girl said : ` Never mind , dear little fawn , I will never forsake you , ' and she took off her golden garter and tied it round the Roe 's neck .
Then she plucked rushes and plaited a soft cord of them , which she fastened to the collar .
When she had done this she led the Roe farther and farther , right into the depths of the forest .
After they had gone a long , long way they came to a little house , and when the girl looked into it she found it was quite empty , and she thought ` perhaps we might stay and live here . '
So she hunted up leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the little Roe , and every morning and evening she went out and gathered roots , nuts , and berries for herself , and tender young grass for the fawn .
And he fed from her hand , and played round her and seemed quite happy .
In the evening , when sister was tired , she said her prayers and then laid her head on the fawn 's back and fell sound asleep with it as a pillow .
And if brother had but kept his natural form , really it would have been a most delightful kind of life .
They had been living for some time in the forest in this way , when it came to pass that the King of that country had a great hunt through the woods .
Then the whole forest rang with such a blowing of horns , baying of dogs , and joyful cries of huntsmen , that the little Roe heard it and longed to join in too .
` Ah ! '
said he to sister , ` do let me go off to the hunt !
I ca n't keep still any longer . '
And he begged and prayed till at last she consented .
` But , ' said she , ` mind you come back in the evening .
I shall lock my door fast for fear of those wild huntsmen ; so , to make sure of my knowing you , knock at the door and say , `` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . ''
If you do n't speak I sha n't open the door . '
So off sprang the little Roe , and he felt quite well and happy in the free open air .
The King and his huntsmen soon saw the beautiful creature and started in pursuit , but they could not come up with it , and whenever they thought they were sure to catch it , it bounded off to one side into the bushes and disappeared .
When night came on it ran home , and knocking at the door of the little house cried : ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . '
The door opened , and he ran in and rested all night on his soft mossy bed .
Next morning the hunt began again , and as soon as the little Roe heard the horns and the ` Ho !
ho !
` of the huntsmen , he could not rest another moment , and said : ` Sister , open the door , I must get out . '
So sister opened the door and said , ` Now mind and get back by nightfall , and say your little rhyme . '
As soon as the King and his huntsmen saw the Roe with the golden collar they all rode off after it , but it was far too quick and nimble for them .
This went on all day , but as evening came on the huntsmen had gradually encircled the Roe , and one of them wounded it slightly in the foot , so that it limped and ran off slowly .
Then the huntsman stole after it as far as the little house , and heard it call out , ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here , ' and he saw the door open and close immediately the fawn had run in .
The huntsman remembered all this carefully , and went off straight to the King and told him all he had seen and heard .
` To-morrow we will hunt again , ' said the King .
Poor sister was terribly frightened when she saw how her little Fawn had been wounded .
She washed off the blood , bound up the injured foot with herbs , and said : ` Now , dear , go and lie down and rest , so that your wound may heal . '
The wound was really so slight that it was quite well next day , and the little Roe did not feel it at all .
No sooner did it hear the sounds of hunting in the forest than it cried : ' I ca n't stand this , I must be there too ; I 'll take care they sha n't catch me . '
Sister began to cry , and said , ` They are certain to kill you , and then I shall be left all alone in the forest and forsaken by everyone .
I ca n't and wo n't let you out . '
` Then I shall die of grief , ' replied the Roe , ` for when I hear that horn I feel as if I must jump right out of my skin . '
So at last , when sister found there was nothing else to be done , she opened the door with a heavy heart , and the Roe darted forth full of glee and health into the forest .
As soon as the King saw the Roe , he said to his huntsman , ` Now then , give chase to it all day till evening , but mind and be careful not to hurt it . '
When the sun had set the King said to his huntsman , ` Now come and show me the little house in the wood . '
And when he got to the house he knocked at the door and said , ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . '
Then the door opened and the King walked in , and there stood the loveliest maiden he had ever seen .
The girl was much startled when instead of the little Roe she expected she saw a man with a gold crown on his head walk in .
But the King looked kindly at her , held out his hand , and said , ` Will you come with me to my castle and be my dear wife ? '
` Oh yes ! '
replied the maiden , ` but you must let my Roe come too .
I could not possibly forsake it . '
` It shall stay with you as long as you live , and shall want for nothing , ' the King promised .
In the meantime the Roe came bounding in , and sister tied the rush cord once more to its collar , took the end in her hand , and so they left the little house in the forest together .
The King lifted the lonely maiden on to his horse , and led her to his castle , where the wedding was celebrated with the greatest splendour .
The Roe was petted and caressed , and ran about at will in the palace gardens .
Now all this time the wicked stepmother , who had been the cause of these poor children 's misfortunes and trying adventures , was feeling fully persuaded that sister had been torn to pieces by wild beasts , and brother shot to death in the shape of a Roe .
When she heard how happy and prosperous they were , her heart was filled with envy and hatred , and she could think of nothing but how to bring some fresh misfortune on them .
Her own daughter , who was as hideous as night and had only one eye , reproached her by saying , ` It is I who ought to have had this good luck and been Queen . '
` Be quiet , will you , ' said the old woman ; ` when the time comes I shall be at hand . '
Now after some time it happened one day when the King was out hunting that the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little boy .
The old witch thought here was a good chance for her ; so she took the form of the lady in waiting , and , hurrying into the room where the Queen lay in her bed , called out , ` The bath is quite ready ; it will help to make you strong again .
Come , let us be quick , for fear the water should get cold . '
Her daughter was at hand , too , and between them they carried the Queen , who was still very weak , into the bath-room and laid her in the bath ; then they locked the door and ran away .
They took care beforehand to make a blazing hot fire under the bath , so that the lovely young Queen might be suffocated .
As soon as they were sure this was the case , the old witch tied a cap on her daughter 's head and laid her in the Queen 's bed .
She managed , too , to make her figure and general appearance look like the Queen 's , but even her power could not restore the eye she had lost ; so she made her lie on the side of the missing eye , in order to prevent the King 's noticing anything .
In the evening , when the King came home and heard the news of his son 's birth , he was full of delight , and insisted on going at once to his dear wife 's bedside to see how she was getting on .
But the old witch cried out , ` Take care and keep the curtains drawn ; do n't let the light get into the Queen 's eyes ; she must be kept perfectly quiet . '
So the King went away and never knew that it was a false Queen who lay in the bed .
When midnight came and everyone in the palace was sound asleep , the nurse who alone watched by the baby 's cradle in the nursery saw the door open gently , and who should come in but the real Queen .
She lifted the child from its cradle , laid it on her arm , and nursed it for some time .
Then she carefully shook up the pillows of the little bed , laid the baby down and tucked the coverlet in all round him .
She did not forget the little Roe either , but went to the corner where it lay , and gently stroked its back .
Then she silently left the room , and next morning when the nurse asked the sentries if they had seen any one go into the castle that night , they all said , ` No , we saw no one at all . '
For many nights the Queen came in the same way , but she never spoke a word , and the nurse was too frightened to say anything about her visits .
After some little time had elapsed the Queen spoke one night , and said : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 'll come back twice and then farewell . '
The nurse made no answer , but as soon as the Queen had disappeared she went to the King and told him all .
The King exclaimed , ` Good heavens !
what do you say ?
I will watch myself to-night by the child 's bed . '
When the evening came he went to the nursery , and at midnight the Queen appeared and said : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 'll come back once and then farewell . '
And she nursed and petted the child as usual before she disappeared .
The King dared not trust himself to speak to her , but the following night he kept watch again .
That night when the Queen came she said : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 've come this once , and now farewell . '
Then the King could restrain himself no longer , but sprang to her side and cried , ` You can be no one but my dear wife ! '
` Yes , ' said she , ' I am your dear wife ! '
and in the same moment she was restored to life , and was as fresh and well and rosy as ever .
Then she told the King all the cruel things the wicked witch and her daughter had done .
The King had them both arrested at once and brought to trial , and they were condemned to death .
The daughter was led into the forest , where the wild beasts tore her to pieces , and the old witch was burnt at the stake .
As soon as she reduced to ashes the spell was taken off the little Roe , and he was restored to his natural shape once more , and so brother and sister lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 6 -RRB- -LRB- 6 -RRB- Grimm .
PRINCESS ROSETTE ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had two beautiful sons and one little daughter , who was so pretty that no one who saw her could help loving her .
When it was time for the christening of the Princess , the Queen -- as she always did -- sent for all the fairies to be present at the ceremony , and afterwards invited them to a splendid banquet .
When it was over , and they were preparing to go away , the Queen said to them : ` Do not forget your usual good custom .
Tell me what is going to happen to Rosette . '
For that was the name they had given the Princess .
But the fairies said they had left their book of magic at home , and they would come another day and tell her .
` Ah ! '
said the Queen , ' I know very well what that means -- you have nothing good to say ; but at least I beg that you will not hide anything from me . '
So , after a great deal of persuasion , they said : ` Madam , we fear that Rosette may be the cause of great misfortunes to her brothers ; they may even meet with their death through her ; that is all we have been able to foresee about your dear little daughter .
We are very sorry to have nothing better to tell you . '
Then they went away , leaving the Queen very sad , so sad that the King noticed it , and asked her what was the matter .
The Queen said that she had been sitting too near the fire , and had burnt all the flax that was upon her distaff .
` Oh !
is that all ? '
said the King , and he went up into the garret and brought her down more flax than she could spin in a hundred years .
But the Queen still looked sad , and the King asked her again what was the matter .
She answered that she had been walking by the river and had dropped one of her green satin slippers into the water .
` Oh !
if that 's all , ' said the King , and he sent to all the shoe-makers in his kingdom , and they very soon made the Queen ten thousand green satin slippers , but still she looked sad .
So the King asked her again what was the matter , and this time she answered that in eating her porridge too hastily she had swallowed her wedding-ring .
But it so happened that the King knew better , for he had the ring himself , and he said : ` Oh I you are not telling me the truth , for I have your ring here in my purse . '
Then the Queen was very much ashamed , and she saw that the King was vexed with her ; so she told him all that the fairies had predicted about Rosette , and begged him to think how the misfortunes might be prevented .
Then it was the King 's turn to look sad , and at last he said : ' I see no way of saving our sons except by having Rosette 's head cut off while she is still little . '
But the Queen cried that she would far rather have her own head cut off , and that he had better think of something else , for she would never consent to such a thing .
So they thought and thought , but they could not tell what to do , until at last the Queen heard that in a great forest near the castle there was an old hermit , who lived in a hollow tree , and that people came from far and near to consult him ; so she said : ' I had better go and ask his advice ; perhaps he will know what to do to prevent the misfortunes which the fairies foretold . '
She set out very early the next morning , mounted upon a pretty little white mule , which was shod with solid gold , and two of her ladies rode behind her on beautiful horses .
When they reached the forest they dismounted , for the trees grew so thickly that the horses could not pass , and made their way on foot to the hollow tree where the hermit lived .
At first when he saw them coming he was vexed , for he was not fond of ladies ; but when he recognised the Queen , he said : ` You are welcome , Queen .
What do you come to ask of me ? '
Then the Queen told him all the fairies had foreseen for Rosette , and asked what she should do , and the hermit answered that she must shut the Princess up in a tower and never let her come out of it again .
The Queen thanked and rewarded him , and hastened back to the castle to tell the King .
When he heard the news he had a great tower built as quickly as possible , and there the Princess was shut up , and the King and Queen and her two brothers went to see her every day that she might not be dull .
The eldest brother was called ` the Great Prince , ' and the second ` the Little Prince . '
They loved their sister dearly , for she was the sweetest , prettiest princess who was ever seen , and the least little smile from her was worth more than a hundred pieces of gold .
When Rosette was fifteen years old the Great Prince went to the King and asked if it would not soon be time for her to be married , and the Little Prince put the same question to the Queen .
Their majesties were amused at them for thinking of it , but did not make any reply , and soon after both the King and the Queen were taken ill , and died on the same day .
Everybody was sorry , Rosette especially , and all the bells in the kingdom were tolled .
Then all the dukes and counsellors put the Great Prince upon a golden throne , and crowned him with a diamond crown , and they all cried , ` Long live the King ! '
And after that there was nothing but feasting and rejoicing .
The new King and his brother said to one another : ` Now that we are the masters , let us take our sister out of that dull tower which she is so tired of . '
They had only to go across the garden to reach the tower , which was very high , and stood up in a corner .
Rosette was busy at her embroidery , but when she saw her brothers she got up , and taking the King 's hand cried : ` Good morning , dear brother .
Now that you are King , please take me out of this dull tower , for I am so tired of it . '
Then she began to cry , but the King kissed her and told her to dry her tears , as that was just what they had come for , to take her out of the tower and bring her to their beautiful castle , and the Prince showed her the pocketful of sugar plums he had brought for her , and said : ` Make haste , and let us get away from this ugly tower , and very soon the King will arrange a grand marriage for you . '
When Rosette saw the beautiful garden , full of fruit and flowers , with green grass and sparkling fountains , she was so astonished that not a word could she say , for she had never in her life seen anything like it before .
She looked about her , and ran hither and thither gathering fruit and flowers , and her little dog Frisk , who was bright green all over , and had but one ear , danced before her , crying ` Bow-wow-wow , ' and turning head over heels in the most enchanting way .
Everybody was amused at Frisk 's antics , but all of a sudden he ran away into a little wood , and the Princess was following him , when , to her great delight , she saw a peacock , who was spreading his tail in the sunshine .
Rosette thought she had never seen anything so pretty .
She could not take her eyes off him , and there she stood entranced until the King and the Prince came up and asked what was amusing her so much .
She showed them the peacock , and asked what it was , and they answered that it was a bird which people sometimes ate .
` What ! '
said the Princess , ` do they dare to kill that beautiful creature and eat it ?
I declare that I will never marry any one but the King of the Peacocks , and when I am Queen I will take very good care that nobody eats any of my subjects . '
At this the King was very much astonished .
` But , little sister , ' said he , ` where shall we find the King of the Peacocks ? '
` Oh !
wherever you like , sire , ' she answered , ` but I will never marry any one else . '
After this they took Rosette to the beautiful castle , and the peacock was brought with her , and told to walk about on the terrace outside her windows , so that she might always see him , and then the ladies of the court came to see the Princess , and they brought her beautiful presents -- dresses and ribbons and sweetmeats , diamonds and pearls and dolls and embroidered slippers , and she was so well brought up , and said , ` Thank you ! '
so prettily , and was so gracious , that everyone went away delighted with her .
Meanwhile the King and the Prince were considering how they should find the King of the Peacocks , if there was such a person in the world .
And first of all they had a portrait made of the Princess , which was so like her that you really would not have been surprised if it had spoken to you .
Then they said to her : ` Since you will not marry anyone but the King of the Peacocks , we are going out together into the wide world to search for him .
If we find him for you we shall be very glad .
In the meantime , mind you take good care of our kingdom . '
Rosette thanked them for all the trouble they were taking on her account , and promised to take great care of the kingdom , and only to amuse herself by looking at the peacock , and making Frisk dance while they were away .
So they set out , and asked everyone they met -- ` Do you know the King of the Peacocks ? '
But the answer was always , ` No , no . '
Then they went on and on , so far that no one has ever been farther , and at last they came to the Kingdom of the Cockchafers .
They had never before seen such a number of cockchafers , and the buzzing was so loud that the King was afraid he should be deafened by it .
He asked the most distinguished-looking cockchafer they met if he knew where they could find the King of the Peacocks .
` Sire , ' replied the cockchafer , ` his kingdom is thirty thousand leagues from this ; you have come the longest way . '
` And how do you know that ? '
said the King .
` Oh ! '
said the cockchafer , ` we all know you very well , since we spend two or three months in your garden every year . '
Thereupon the King and the Prince made great friends with him , and they all walked arm-in-arm and dined together , and afterwards the cockchafer showed them all the curiosities of his strange country , where the tiniest green leaf costs a gold piece and more .
Then they set out again to finish their journey , and this time , as they knew the way , they were not long upon the road .
It was easy to guess that they had come to the right place , for they saw peacocks in every tree , and their cries could be heard a long way off : When they reached the city they found it full of men and women who were dressed entirely in peacocks ' feathers , which were evidently thought prettier than anything else .
They soon met the King , who was driving about in a beautiful little golden carriage which glittered with diamonds , and was drawn at full speed by twelve peacocks .
The King and the Prince were delighted to see that the King of the Peacocks was as handsome as possible .
He had curly golden hair and was very pale , and he wore a crown of peacocks ' feathers .
When he saw Rosette 's brothers he knew at once that they were strangers , and stopping his carriage he sent for them to speak to him .
When they had greeted him they said : ` Sire , we have come from very far away to show you a beautiful portrait . '
So saying they drew from their travelling bag the picture of Rosette .
The King looked at it in silence a long time , but at last he said : ' I could not have believed that there was such a beautiful Princess in the world ! '
` Indeed , she is really a hundred times as pretty as that , ' said her brothers . '
I think you must be making fun of me , ' replied the King of the Peacocks .
` Sire , ' said the Prince , ` my brother is a King , like yourself .
He is called `` the King , '' I am called `` the Prince , '' and that is the portrait of our sister , the Princess Rosette .
We have come to ask if you would like to marry her .
She is as good as she is beautiful , and we will give her a bushel of gold pieces for her dowry . '
` Oh !
with all my heart , ' replied the King , ` and I will make her very happy .
She shall have whatever she likes , and I shall love her dearly ; only I warn you that if she is not as pretty as you have told me , I will have your heads cut off . '
` Oh !
certainly , we quite agree to that , ' said the brothers in one breath .
` Very well .
Off with you into prison , and stay there until the Princess arrives , ' said the King of the Peacocks .
And the Princes were so sure that Rosette was far prettier than her portrait that they went without a murmur .
They were very kindly treated , and that they might not feel dull the King came often to see them .
As for Rosette 's portrait that was taken up to the palace , and the King did nothing but gaze at it all day and all night .
As the King and the Prince had to stay in prison , they sent a letter to the Princess telling her to pack up all her treasures as quickly as possible , and come to them , as the King of the Peacocks was waiting to marry her ; but they did not say that they were in prison , for fear of making her uneasy .
When Rosette received the letter she was so delighted that she ran about telling everyone that the King of the Peacocks was found , and she was going to marry him .
Guns were fired , and fireworks let off .
Everyone had as many cakes and sweetmeats as he wanted .
And for three days everybody who came to see the Princess was presented with a slice of bread-and-jam , a nightingale 's egg , and some hippocras .
After having thus entertained her friends , she distributed her dolls among them , and left her brother 's kingdom to the care of the wisest old men of the city , telling them to take charge of everything , not to spend any money , but save it all up until the King should return , and above all , not to forget to feed her peacock .
Then she set out , only taking with her her nurse , and the nurse 's daughter , and the little green dog Frisk .
They took a boat and put out to sea , carrying with them the bushel of gold pieces , and enough dresses to last the Princess ten years if she wore two every day , and they did nothing but laugh and sing .
The nurse asked the boatman : ` Can you take us , can you take us to the kingdom of the peacocks ? '
But he answered : ` Oh no !
oh no ! '
Then she said : ` You must take us , you must take us . '
And he answered : ` Very soon , very soon . '
Then the nurse said : ` Will you take us ?
will you take us ? '
And the boatman answered : ` Yes , yes . '
Then she whispered in his ear : ` Do you want to make your fortune ? '
And he said : ` Certainly I do . ' '
I can tell you how to get a bag of gold , ' said she . '
I ask nothing better , ' said the boatman .
` Well , ' said the nurse , ` to-night , when the Princess is asleep , you must help me to throw her into the sea , and when she is drowned I will put her beautiful clothes upon my daughter , and we will take her to the King of the Peacocks , who will be only too glad to marry her , and as your reward you shall have your boat full of diamonds . '
The boatman was very much surprised at this proposal , and said : ` But what a pity to drown such a pretty Princess ! '
However , at last the nurse persuaded him to help her , and when the night came and the Princess was fast asleep as usual , with Frisk curled up on his own cushion at the foot of her bed , the wicked nurse fetched the boatman and her daughter , and between them they picked up the Princess , feather bed , mattress , pillows , blankets and all , and threw her into the sea , without even waking her .
Now , luckily , the Princess 's bed was entirely stuffed with phoenix feathers , which are very rare , and have the property of always floating upon water , so Rosette went on swimming about as if she had been in a boat .
After a little while she began to feel very cold , and turned round so often that she woke Frisk , who started up , and , having a very good nose , smelt the soles and herrings so close to him that he began to bark .
He barked so long and so loud that he woke all the other fish , who came swimming up round the Princess 's bed , and poking at it with their great heads .
As for her , she said to herself : ` How our boat does rock upon the water !
I am really glad that I am not often as uncomfortable as I have been to-night . '
The wicked nurse and the boatman , who were by this time quite a long way off , heard Frisk barking , and said to each other : ` That horrid little animal and his mistress are drinking our health in sea-water now .
Let us make haste to land , for we must be quite near the city of the King of the Peacocks . '
The King had sent a hundred carriages to meet them , drawn by every kind of strange animal .
There were lions , bears , wolves , stags , horses , buffaloes , eagles , and peacocks .
The carriage intended for the Princess Rosette had six blue monkeys , which could turn summer-saults , and dance on a tight-rope , and do many other charming tricks .
Their harness was all of crimson velvet with gold buckles , and behind the carriage walked sixty beautiful ladies chosen by the King to wait upon Rosette and amuse her .
The nurse had taken all the pains imaginable to deck out her daughter .
She put on her Rosette 's prettiest frock , and covered her with diamonds from head to foot .
But she was so ugly that nothing could make her look nice , and what was worse , she was sulky and ill-tempered , and did nothing but grumble all the time .
When she stepped from the boat and the escort sent by the King of the Peacocks caught sight of her , they were so surprised that they could not say a single word .
` Now then , look alive , ' cried the false Princess .
` If you do n't bring me something to eat I will have all your heads cut off ! '
Then they whispered one to another : ` Here 's a pretty state of things !
she is as wicked as she is ugly .
What a bride for our poor King !
She certainly was not worth bringing from the other end of the world ! '
But she went on ordering them all about , and for no fault at all would give slaps and pinches to everyone she could reach .
As the procession was so long it advanced but slowly , and the nurse 's daughter sat up in her carriage trying to look like a Queen .
But the peacocks , who were sitting upon every tree waiting to salute her , and who had made up their minds to cry , ` Long live our beautiful Queen ! '
when they caught sight of the false bride could not help crying instead : ` Oh !
how ugly she is ! '
Which offended her so much that she said to the guards : ` Make haste and kill all these insolent peacocks who have dared to insult me . '
But the peacocks only flew away , laughing at her .
The rogue of a boatman , who noticed all this , said softly to the nurse : ` This is a bad business for us , gossip ; your daughter ought to have been prettier . '
But she answered : ` Be quiet , stupid , or you will spoil everything . '
Now they told the King that the Princess was approaching .
` Well , ' said he , ` did her brothers tell me truly ?
Is she prettier than her portrait ? '
` Sire , ' they answered , ` if she were as pretty that would do very well . '
` That 's true , ' said the King ; ' I for one shall be quite satisfied if she is .
Let us go and meet her . '
For they knew by the uproar that she had arrived , but they could not tell what all the shouting was about .
The King thought he could hear the words : ` How ugly she is !
How ugly she is ! '
and he fancied they must refer to some dwarf the Princess was bringing with her .
It never occurred to him that they could apply to the bride herself .
The Princess Rosette 's portrait was carried at the head of the procession , and after it walked the King surrounded by his courtiers .
He was all impatience to see the lovely Princess , but when he caught sight of the nurse 's daughter he was furiously angry , and would not advance another step .
For she was really ugly enough to have frightened anybody .
` What ! '
he cried , ` have the two rascals who are my prisoners dared to play me such a trick as this ?
Do they propose that I shall marry this hideous creature ?
Let her be shut up in my great tower , with her nurse and those who brought her here ; and as for them , I will have their heads cut off . '
Meanwhile the King and the Prince , who knew that their sister must have arrived , had made themselves smart , and sat expecting every minute to be summoned to greet her .
So when the gaoler came with soldiers , and carried them down into a black dungeon which swarmed with toads and bats , and where they were up to their necks in water , nobody could have been more surprised and dismayed than they were .
` This is a dismal kind of wedding , ' they said ; ` what can have happened that we should be treated like this ?
They must mean to kill us . '
And this idea annoyed them very much .
Three days passed before they heard any news , and then the King of the Peacocks came and berated them through a hole in the wall .
` You have called yourselves King and Prince , ' he cried , ` to try and make me marry your sister , but you are nothing but beggars , not worth the water you drink .
I mean to make short work with you , and the sword is being sharpened that will cut off your heads ! '
` King of the Peacocks , ' answered the King angrily , ` you had better take care what you are about .
I am as good a King as yourself , and have a splendid kingdom and robes and crowns , and plenty of good red gold to do what I like with .
You are pleased to jest about having our heads cut off ; perhaps you think we have stolen something from you ? '
At first the King of the Peacocks was taken aback by this bold speech , and had half a mind to send them all away together ; but his Prime Minister declared that it would never do to let such a trick as that pass unpunished , everybody would laugh at him ; so the accusation was drawn up against them , that they were impostors , and that they had promised the King a beautiful Princess in marriage who , when she arrived , proved to be an ugly peasant girl .
This accusation was read to the prisoners , who cried out that they had spoken the truth , that their sister was indeed a Princess more beautiful than the day , and that there was some mystery about all this which they could not fathom .
Therefore they demanded seven days in which to prove their innocence , The King of the Peacocks was so angry that he would hardly even grant them this favour , but at last he was persuaded to do so .
While all this was going on at court , let us see what had been happening to the real Princess .
When the day broke she and Frisk were equally astonished at finding themselves alone upon the sea , with no boat and no one to help them .
The Princess cried and cried , until even the fishes were sorry for her .
` Alas ! '
she said , ` the King of the Peacocks must have ordered me to be thrown into the sea because he had changed his mind and did not want to marry me .
But how strange of him , when I should have loved him so much , and we should have been so happy together ! '
And then she cried harder than ever , for she could not help still loving him .
So for two days they floated up and down the sea , wet and shivering with the cold , and so hungry that when the Princess saw some oysters she caught them , and she and Frisk both ate some , though they did n't like them at all .
When night came the Princess was so frightened that she said to Frisk : ` Oh !
Do please keep on barking for fear the soles should come and eat us up ! '
Now it happened that they had floated close in to the shore , where a poor old man lived all alone in a little cottage .
When he heard Frisk 's barking he thought to himself : ` There must have been a shipwreck ! '
-LRB- for no dogs ever passed that way by any chance -RRB- , and he went out to see if he could be of any use .
He soon saw the Princess and Frisk floating up and down , and Rosette , stretching out her hands to him , cried : ` Oh !
Good old man , do save me , or I shall die of cold and hunger ! '
When he heard her cry out so piteously he was very sorry for her , and ran back into his house to fetch a long boat-hook .
Then he waded into the water up to his chin , and after being nearly drowned once or twice he at last succeeded in getting hold of the Princess 's bed and dragging it on shore .
Rosette and Frisk were joyful enough to find themselves once more on dry land , and the Princess thanked the old man heartily ; then , wrapping herself up in her blankets , she daintily picked her way up to the cottage on her little bare feet .
There the old man lighted a fire of straw , and then drew from an old box his wife 's dress and shoes , which the Princess put on , and thus roughly clad looked as charming as possible , and Frisk danced his very best to amuse her .
The old man saw that Rosette must be some great lady , for her bed coverings were all of satin and gold .
He begged that she would tell him all her history , as she might safely trust him .
The Princess told him everything , weeping bitterly again at the thought that it was by the King 's orders that she had been thrown overboard .
` And now , my daughter , what is to be done ? '
said the old man .
` You are a great Princess , accustomed to fare daintily , and I have nothing to offer you but black bread and radishes , which will not suit you at all .
Shall I go and tell the King of the Peacocks that you are here ?
If he sees you he will certainly wish to marry you . '
` Oh no ! '
cried Rosette , ` he must be wicked , since he tried to drown me .
Do n't let us tell him , but if you have a little basket give it to me . '
The old man gave her a basket , and tying it round Frisk 's neck she said to him : ` Go and find out the best cooking-pot in the town and bring the contents to me . '
Away went Frisk , and as there was no better dinner cooking in all the town than the King 's , he adroitly took the cover off the pot and brought all it contained to the Princess , who said : ` Now go back to the pantry , and bring the best of everything you find there . '
So Frisk went back and filled his basket with white bread , and red wine , and every kind of sweetmeat , until it was almost too heavy for him to carry .
When the King of the Peacocks wanted his dinner there was nothing in the pot and nothing in the pantry .
All the courtiers looked at one another in dismay , and the King was terribly cross .
` Oh well !
` he said , ` if there is no dinner I can not dine , but take care that plenty of things are roasted for supper . '
When evening came the Princess said to Frisk : ` Go into the town and find out the best kitchen , and bring me all the nicest morsels that are being roasted upon the spit . '
Frisk did as he was told , and as he knew of no better kitchen than the King 's , he went in softly , and when the cook 's back was turned took everything that was upon the spit , As it happened it was all done to a turn , and looked so good that it made him hungry only to see it .
He carried his basket to the Princess , who at once sent him back to the pantry to bring all the tarts and sugar plums that had been prepared for the King 's supper .
The King , as he had had no dinner , was very hungry and wanted his supper early , but when he asked for it , lo and behold it was all gone , and he had to go to bed half-starved and in a terrible temper .
The next day the same thing happened , and the next , so that for three days the King got nothing at all to eat , because just when the dinner or the supper was ready to be served it mysteriously disappeared .
At last the Prime Minister began to be afraid that the King would be starved to death , so he resolved to hide himself in some dark corner of the kitchen , and never take his eyes off the cooking-pot .
His surprise was great when he presently saw a little green dog with one ear slip softly into the kitchen , uncover the pot , transfer all its contents to his basket , and run off .
The Prime Minister followed hastily , and tracked him all through the town to the cottage of the good old man ; then he ran back to the King and told him that he had found out where all his dinners and suppers went .
The King , who was very much astonished , said he should like to go and see for himself .
So he set out , accompanied by the Prime Minister and a guard of archers , and arrived just in time to find the old man and the Princess finishing his dinner .
The King ordered that they should be seized and bound with ropes , and Frisk also .
When they were brought back to the palace some one told the King , who said : ` To-day is the last day of the respite granted to those impostors ; they shall have their heads cut off at the same time as these stealers of my dinner . '
Then the old man went down on his knees before the King and begged for time to tell him everything .
While he spoke the King for the first time looked attentively at the Princess , because he was sorry to see how she cried , and when he heard the old man saying that her name was Rosette , and that she had been treacherously thrown into the sea , he turned head over heels three times without stopping , in spite of being quite weak from hunger , and ran to embrace her , and untied the ropes which bound her with his own hands , declaring that he loved her with all his heart .
Messengers were sent to bring the Princes out of prison , and they came very sadly , believing that they were to be executed at once : the nurse and her daughter and the boatman were brought also .
As soon as they came in Rosette ran to embrace her brothers , while the traitors threw themselves down before her and begged for mercy .
The King and the Princess were so happy that they freely forgave them , and as for the good old man he was splendidly rewarded , and spent the rest of his days in the palace .
The King of the Peacocks made ample amends to the King and Prince for the way in which they had been treated , and did everything in his power to show how sorry he was .
The nurse restored to Rosette all her dresses and jewels , and the bushel of gold pieces ; the wedding was held at once , and they all lived happily ever after -- even to Frisk , who enjoyed the greatest luxury , and never had anything worse than the wing of a partridge for dinner all the rest of his life .
-LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE ENCHANTED PIG ONCE upon a time there lived a King who had three daughters .
Now it happened that he had to go out to battle , so he called his daughters and said to them : ` My dear children , I am obliged to go to the wars .
The enemy is approaching us with a large army .
It is a great grief to me to leave you all .
During my absence take care of yourselves and be good girls ; behave well and look after everything in the house .
You may walk in the garden , and you may go into all the rooms in the palace , except the room at the back in the right-hand corner ; into that you must not enter , for harm would befall you . '
` You may keep your mind easy , father , ' they replied .
` We have never been disobedient to you .
Go in peace , and may heaven give you a glorious victory ! '
When everything was ready for his departure , the King gave them the keys of all the rooms and reminded them once more of what he had said .
His daughters kissed his hands with tears in their eyes , and wished him prosperity , and he gave the eldest the keys .
Now when the girls found themselves alone they felt so sad and dull that they did not know what to do .
So , to pass the time , they decided to work for part of the day , to read for part of the day , and to enjoy themselves in the garden for part of the day .
As long as they did this all went well with them .
But this happy state of things did not last long .
Every day they grew more and more curious , and you will see what the end of that was .
` Sisters , ' said the eldest Princess , ` all day long we sew , spin , and read .
We have been several days quite alone , and there is no corner of the garden that we have not explored .
We have been in all the rooms of our father 's palace , and have admired the rich and beautiful furniture : why should not we go into the room that our father forbad us to enter ? '
Sister , ' said the youngest , ' I can not think how you can tempt us to break our father 's command .
When he told us not to go into that room he must have known what he was saying , and have had a good reason for saying it . '
` Surely the sky wo n't fall about our heads if we DO go in , ' said the second Princess .
` Dragons and such like monsters that would devour us will not be hidden in the room .
And how will our father ever find out that we have gone in ? '
While they were speaking thus , encouraging each other , they had reached the room ; the eldest fitted the key into the lock , and snap !
the door stood open .
The three girls entered , and what do you think they saw ?
The room was quite empty , and without any ornament , but in the middle stood a large table , with a gorgeous cloth , and on it lay a big open book .
Now the Princesses were curious to know what was written in the book , especially the eldest , and this is what she read : ` The eldest daughter of this King will marry a prince from the East . '
Then the second girl stepped forward , and turning over the page she read : ` The second daughter of this King will marry a prince from the West . '
The girls were delighted , and laughed and teased each other .
But the youngest Princess did not want to go near the table or to open the book .
Her elder sisters however left her no peace , and will she , nill she , they dragged her up to the table , and in fear and trembling she turned over the page and read : ` The youngest daughter of this King will be married to a pig from the North . '
Now if a thunderbolt had fallen upon her from heaven it would not have frightened her more .
She almost died of misery , and if her sisters had not held her up , she would have sunk to the ground and cut her head open .
When she came out of the fainting fit into which she had fallen in her terror , her sisters tried to comfort her , saying : ` How can you believe such nonsense ?
When did it ever happen that a king 's daughter married a pig ? '
` What a baby you are ! '
said the other sister ; ` has not our father enough soldiers to protect you , even if the disgusting creature did come to woo you ? '
The youngest Princess would fain have let herself be convinced by her sisters ' words , and have believed what they said , but her heart was heavy .
Her thoughts kept turning to the book , in which stood written that great happiness waited her sisters , but that a fate was in store for her such as had never before been known in the world .
Besides , the thought weighed on her heart that she had been guilty of disobeying her father .
She began to get quite ill , and in a few days she was so changed that it was difficult to recognise her ; formerly she had been rosy and merry , now she was pale and nothing gave her any pleasure .
She gave up playing with her sisters in the garden , ceased to gather flowers to put in her hair , and never sang when they sat together at their spinning and sewing .
In the meantime the King won a great victory , and having completely defeated and driven off the enemy , he hurried home to his daughters , to whom his thoughts had constantly turned .
Everyone went out to meet him with cymbals and fifes and drums , and there was great rejoicing over his victorious return .
The King 's first act on reaching home was to thank Heaven for the victory he had gained over the enemies who had risen against him .
He then entered his palace , and the three Princesses stepped forward to meet him .
His joy was great when he saw that they were all well , for the youngest did her best not to appear sad .
In spite of this , however , it was not long before the King noticed that his third daughter was getting very thin and sad-looking .
And all of a sudden he felt as if a hot iron were entering his soul , for it flashed through his mind that she had disobeyed his word .
He felt sure he was right ; but to be quite certain he called his daughters to him , questioned them , and ordered them to speak the truth .
They confessed everything , but took good care not to say which had led the other two into temptation .
The King was so distressed when he heard it that he was almost overcome by grief .
But he took heart and tried to comfort his daughters , who looked frightened to death .
He saw that what had happened had happened , and that a thousand words would not alter matters by a hair 's - breadth .
Well , these events had almost been forgotten when one fine day a prince from the East appeared at the Court and asked the King for the hand of his eldest daughter .
The King gladly gave his consent .
A great wedding banquet was prepared , and after three days of feasting the happy pair were accompanied to the frontier with much ceremony and rejoicing .
After some time the same thing befell the second daughter , who was wooed and won by a prince from the West .
Now when the young Princess saw that everything fell out exactly as had been written in the book , she grew very sad .
She refused to eat , and would not put on her fine clothes nor go out walking , and declared that she would rather die than become a laughing-stock to the world .
But the King would not allow her to do anything so wrong , and he comforted her in all possible ways .
So the time passed , till lo and behold !
one fine day an enormous pig from the North walked into the palace , and going straight up to the King said , ` Hail !
oh King .
May your life be as prosperous and bright as sunrise on a clear day ! ' '
I am glad to see you well , friend , ' answered the King , ` but what wind has brought you hither ? ' '
I come a-wooing , ' replied the Pig .
Now the King was astonished to hear so fine a speech from a Pig , and at once it occurred to him that something strange was the matter .
He would gladly have turned the Pig 's thoughts in another direction , as he did not wish to give him the Princess for a wife ; but when he heard that the Court and the whole street were full of all the pigs in the world he saw that there was no escape , and that he must give his consent .
The Pig was not satisfied with mere promises , but insisted that the wedding should take place within a week , and would not go away till the King had sworn a royal oath upon it .
The King then sent for his daughter , and advised her to submit to fate , as there was nothing else to be done .
And he added : ` My child , the words and whole behaviour of this Pig are quite unlike those of other pigs .
I do not myself believe that he always was a pig .
Depend upon it some magic or witchcraft has been at work .
Obey him , and do everything that he wishes , and I feel sure that Heaven will shortly send you release . '
` If you wish me to do this , dear father , I will do it , ' replied the girl .
In the meantime the wedding-day drew near .
After the marriage , the Pig and his bride set out for his home in one of the royal carriages .
On the way they passed a great bog , and the Pig ordered the carriage to stop , and got out and rolled about in the mire till he was covered with mud from head to foot ; then he got back into the carriage and told his wife to kiss him .
What was the poor girl to do ?
She bethought herself of her father 's words , and , pulling out her pocket handkerchief , she gently wiped the Pig 's snout and kissed it .
By the time they reached the Pig 's dwelling , which stood in a thick wood , it was quite dark .
They sat down quietly for a little , as they were tired after their drive ; then they had supper together , and lay down to rest .
During the night the Princess noticed that the Pig had changed into a man .
She was not a little surprised , but remembering her father 's words , she took courage , determined to wait and see what would happen .
And now she noticed that every night the Pig became a man , and every morning he was changed into a Pig before she awoke .
This happened several nights running , and the Princess could not understand it at all .
Clearly her husband must be bewitched .
In time she grew quite fond of him , he was so kind and gentle .
One fine day as she was sitting alone she saw an old witch go past .
She felt quite excited , as it was so long since she had seen a human being , and she called out to the old woman to come and talk to her .
Among other things the witch told her that she understood all magic arts , and that she could foretell the future , and knew the healing powers of herbs and plants . '
I shall be grateful to you all my life , old dame , ' said the Princess , ` if you will tell me what is the matter with my husband .
Why is he a Pig by day and a human being by night ? ' '
I was just going to tell you that one thing , my dear , to show you what a good fortune-teller I am .
If you like , I will give you a herb to break the spell . '
` If you will only give it to me , ' said the Princess , ' I will give you anything you choose to ask for , for I can not bear to see him in this state . '
` Here , then , my dear child , ' said the witch , ` take this thread , but do not let him know about it , for if he did it would lose its healing power .
At night , when he is asleep , you must get up very quietly , and fasten the thread round his left foot as firmly as possible ; and you will see in the morning he will not have changed back into a Pig , but will still be a man .
I do not want any reward .
I shall be sufficiently repaid by knowing that you are happy .
It almost breaks my heart to think of all you have suffered , and I only wish I had known it sooner , as I should have come to your rescue at once . '
When the old witch had gone away the Princess hid the thread very carefully , and at night she got up quietly , and with a beating heart she bound the thread round her husband 's foot .
Just as she was pulling the knot tight there was a crack , and the thread broke , for it was rotten .
Her husband awoke with a start , and said to her , ` Unhappy woman , what have you done ?
Three days more and this unholy spell would have fallen from me , and now , who knows how long I may have to go about in this disgusting shape ?
I must leave you at once , and we shall not meet again until you have worn out three pairs of iron shoes and blunted a steel staff in your search for me . '
So saying he disappeared .
Now , when the Princess was left alone she began to weep and moan in a way that was pitiful to hear ; but when she saw that her tears and groans did her no good , she got up , determined to go wherever fate should lead her .
On reaching a town , the first thing she did was to order three pairs of iron sandals and a steel staff , and having made these preparations for her journey , she set out in search of her husband .
On and on she wandered over nine seas and across nine continents ; through forests with trees whose stems were as thick as beer-barrels ; stumbling and knocking herself against the fallen branches , then picking herself up and going on ; the boughs of the trees hit her face , and the shrubs tore her hands , but on she went , and never looked back .
At last , wearied with her long journey and worn out and overcome with sorrow , but still with hope at her heart , she reached a house .
Now who do you think lived there ?
The Moon .
The Princess knocked at the door , and begged to be let in that she might rest a little .
The mother of the Moon , when she saw her sad plight , felt a great pity for her , and took her in and nursed and tended her .
And while she was here the Princess had a little baby .
One day the mother of the Moon asked her : ` How was it possible for you , a mortal , to get hither to the house of the Moon ? '
Then the poor Princess told her all that happened to her , and added ' I shall always be thankful to Heaven for leading me hither , and grateful to you that you took pity on me and on my baby , and did not leave us to die .
Now I beg one last favour of you ; can your daughter , the Moon , tell me where my husband is ? '
` She can not tell you that , my child , ' replied the goddess , ` but , if you will travel towards the East until you reach the dwelling of the Sun , he may be able to tell you something . '
Then she gave the Princess a roast chicken to eat , and warned her to be very careful not to lose any of the bones , because they might be of great use to her .
When the Princess had thanked her once more for her hospitality and for her good advice , and had thrown away one pair of shoes that were worn out , and had put on a second pair , she tied up the chicken bones in a bundle , and taking her baby in her arms and her staff in her hand , she set out once more on her wanderings .
On and on and on she went across bare sandy deserts , where the roads were so heavy that for every two steps that she took forwards she fell back one ; but she struggled on till she had passed these dreary plains ; next she crossed high rocky mountains , jumping from crag to crag and from peak to peak .
Sometimes she would rest for a little on a mountain , and then start afresh always farther and farther on .
She had to cross swamps and to scale mountain peaks covered with flints , so that her feet and knees and elbows were all torn and bleeding , and sometimes she came to a precipice across which she could not jump , and she had to crawl round on hands and knees , helping herself along with her staff .
At length , wearied to death , she reached the palace in which the Sun lived .
She knocked and begged for admission .
The mother of the Sun opened the door , and was astonished at beholding a mortal from the distant earthly shores , and wept with pity when she heard of all she had suffered .
Then , having promised to ask her son about the Princess 's husband , she hid her in the cellar , so that the Sun might notice nothing on his return home , for he was always in a bad temper when he came in at night .
The next day the Princess feared that things would not go well with her , for the Sun had noticed that some one from the other world had been in the palace .
But his mother had soothed him with soft words , assuring him that this was not so .
So the Princess took heart when she saw how kindly she was treated , and asked : ` But how in the world is it possible for the Sun to be angry ?
He is so beautiful and so good to mortals . '
` This is how it happens , ' replied the Sun 's mother .
` In the morning when he stands at the gates of paradise he is happy , and smiles on the whole world , but during the day he gets cross , because he sees all the evil deeds of men , and that is why his heat becomes so scorching ; but in the evening he is both sad and angry , for he stands at the gates of death ; that is his usual course .
From there he comes back here . '
She then told the Princess that she had asked about her hus-band , but that her son had replied that he knew nothing about him , and that her only hope was to go and inquire of the Wind .
Before the Princess left the mother of the Sun gave her a roast chicken to eat , and advised her to take great care of the bones , which she did , wrapping them up in a bundle .
She then threw away her second pair of shoes , which were quite worn out , and with her child on her arm and her staff in her hand , she set forth on her way to the Wind .
In these wanderings she met with even greater difficulties than before , for she came upon one mountain of flints after another , out of which tongues of fire would flame up ; she passed through woods which had never been trodden by human foot , and had to cross fields of ice and avalanches of snow .
The poor woman nearly died of these hardships , but she kept a brave heart , and at length she reached an enormous cave in the side of a mountain .
This was where the Wind lived .
There was a little door in the railing in front of the cave , and here the Princess knocked and begged for admission .
The mother of the Wind had pity on her and took her in , that she might rest a little .
Here too she was hidden away , so that the Wind might not notice her .
The next morning the mother of the Wind told her that her husband was living in a thick wood , so thick that no axe had been able to cut a way through it ; here he had built himself a sort of house by placing trunks of trees together and fastening them with withes and here he lived alone , shunning human kind .
After the mother of the Wind had given the Princess a chicken to eat , and had warned her to take care of the bones , she advised her to go by the Milky Way , which at night lies across the sky , and to wander on till she reached her goal .
Having thanked the old woman with tears in her eyes for her hospitality , and for the good news she had given her , the Princess set out on her journey and rested neither night nor day , so great was her longing to see her husband again .
On and on she walked until her last pair of shoes fell in pieces .
So she threw them away and went on with bare feet , not heeding the bogs nor the thorns that wounded her , nor the stones that bruised her .
At last she reached a beautiful green meadow on the edge of a wood .
Her heart was cheered by the sight of the flowers and the soft cool grass , and she sat down and rested for a little .
But hearing the birds chirping to their mates among the trees made her think with longing of her husband , and she wept bitterly , and taking her child in her arms , and her bundle of chicken bones on her shoulder , she entered the wood .
For three days and three nights she struggled through it , but could find nothing .
She was quite worn out with weariness and hunger , and even her staff was no further help to her , for in her many wanderings it had become quite blunted .
She almost gave up in despair , but made one last great effort , and suddenly in a thicket she came upon the sort of house that the mother of the Wind had described .
It had no windows , and the door was up in the roof .
Round the house she went , in search of steps , but could find none .
What was she to do ?
How was she to get in ?
She thought and thought , and tried in vain to climb up to the door .
Then suddenly she be-thought her of the chicken bones that she had dragged all that weary way , and she said to herself : ` They would not all have told me to take such good care of these bones if they had not had some good reason for doing so .
Perhaps now , in my hour of need , they may be of use to me . '
So she took the bones out of her bundle , and having thought for a moment , she placed the two ends together .
To her surprise they stuck tight ; then she added the other bones , till she had two long poles the height of the house ; these she placed against the wall , at a distance of a yard from one another .
Across them she placed the other bones , piece by piece , like the steps of a ladder .
As soon as one step was finished she stood upon it and made the next one , and then the next , till she was close to the door .
But just as she got near the top she noticed that there were no bones left for the last rung of the ladder .
What was she to do ?
Without that last step the whole ladder was useless .
She must have lost one of the bones .
Then suddenly an idea came to her .
Taking a knife she chopped off her little finger , and placing it on the last step , it stuck as the bones had done .
The ladder was complete , and with her child on her arm she entered the door of the house .
Here she found everything in perfect order .
Having taken some food , she laid the child down to sleep in a trough that was on the floor , and sat down herself to rest .
When her husband , the Pig , came back to his house , he was startled by what he saw .
At first he could not believe his eyes , and stared at the ladder of bones , and at the little finger on the top of it .
He felt that some fresh magic must be at work , and in his terror he almost turned away from the house ; but then a better idea came to him , and he changed himself into a dove , so that no witchcraft could have power over him , and flew into the room without touching the ladder .
Here he found a woman rocking a child .
At the sight of her , looking so changed by all that she had suffered for his sake , his heart was moved by such love and longing and by so great a pity that he suddenly became a man .
The Princess stood up when she saw him , and her heart beat with fear , for she did not know him .
But when he had told her who he was , in her great joy she forgot all her sufferings , and they seemed as nothing to her .
He was a very handsome man , as straight as a fir tree .
They sat down together and she told him all her adventures , and he wept with pity at the tale .
And then he told her his own history . '
I am a King 's son .
Once when my father was fighting against some dragons , who were the scourge of our country , I slew the youngest dragon .
His mother , who was a witch , cast a spell over me and changed me into a Pig .
It was she who in the disguise of an old woman gave you the thread to bind round my foot .
So that instead of the three days that had to run before the spell was broken , I was forced to remain a Pig for three more years .
Now that we have suffered for each other , and have found each other again , let us forget the past . '
And in their joy they kissed one another .
Next morning they set out early to return to his father 's kingdom .
Great was the rejoicing of all the people when they saw him and his wife ; his father and his mother embraced them both , and there was feasting in the palace for three days and three nights .
Then they set out to see her father .
The old King nearly went out of his mind with joy at beholding his daughter again .
When she had told him all her adventures , he said to her : ` Did not I tell you that I was quite sure that that creature who wooed and won you as his wife had not been born a Pig ?
You see , my child , how wise you were in doing what I told you . '
And as the King was old and had no heirs , he put them on the throne in his place .
And they ruled as only kings rule who have suffered many things .
And if they are not dead they are still living and ruling happily .
-LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Rumanische Marchen ubersetzt von Nite Kremnitz .
THE NORKA ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen .
They had three sons , two of them with their wits about them , but the third a simpleton .
Now the King had a deer park in which were quantities of wild animals of different kinds .
Into that park there used to come a huge beast -- Norka was its name -- and do fearful mischief , devouring some of the animals every night .
The King did all he could , but he was unable to destroy it .
So at last he called his sons together and said , ` Whoever will destroy the Norka , to him will I give the half of my kingdom . '
Well , the eldest son undertook the task .
As soon as it was night , he took his weapons and set out .
But before he reached the park , he went into a traktir -LRB- or tavern -RRB- , and there he spent the whole night in revelry .
When he came to his senses it was too late ; the day had already dawned .
He felt himself disgraced in the eyes of his father , but there was no help for it .
The next day the second son went , and did just the same .
Their father scolded them both soundly , and there was an end of it .
Well , on the third day the youngest son undertook the task .
They all laughed him to scorn , because he was so stupid , feeling sure he would n't do anything .
But he took his arms , and went straight into the park , and sat down on the grass in such a position that the moment he went asleep his weapons would prick him , and he would awake .
Presently the midnight hour sounded .
The earth began to shake , and the Norka came rushing up , and burst right through the fence into the park , so huge was it .
The Prince pulled himself together , leapt to his feet , crossed himself , and went straight at the beast .
It fled back , and the Prince ran after it .
But he soon saw that he could n't catch it on foot , so he hastened to the stable , laid his hands on the best horse there , and set off in pursuit .
Presently he came up with the beast , and they began a fight .
They fought and fought ; the Prince gave the beast three wounds .
At last they were both utterly exhausted , so they lay down to take a short rest .
But the moment the Prince closed his eyes , up jumped the beast and took to flight .
The Prince 's horse awoke him ; up he jumped in a moment , and set off again in pursuit , caught up the beast , and again began fighting with it .
Again the Prince gave the beast three wounds , and then he and the beast lay down again to rest .
Thereupon away fled the beast as before .
The Prince caught it up , and again gave it three wounds .
But all of a sudden , just as the Prince began chasing it for the fourth time , the beast fled to a great white stone , tilted it up , and escaped into the other world , crying out to the Prince : ` Then only will you overcome me , when you enter here . '
The Prince went home , told his father all that had happened , and asked him to have a leather rope plaited , long enough to reach to the other world .
His father ordered this to be done .
When the rope was made , the Prince called for his brothers , and he and they , having taken servants with them , and everything that was needed for a whole year , set out for the place where the beast had disappeared under the stone .
When they got there , they built a palace on the spot , and lived in it for some time .
But when everything was ready , the youngest brother said to the others : ` Now , brothers , who is going to lift this stone ? '
Neither of them could so much as stir it , but as soon as he touched it , away it flew to a distance , though it was ever so big -- big as a hill .
And when he had flung the stone aside , he spoke a second time to his brothers , saying : ` Who is going into the other world , to overcome the Norka ? '
Neither of them offered to do so .
Then he laughed at them for being such cowards , and said : ` Well , brothers , farewell !
Lower me into the other world , and do n't go away from here , but as soon as the cord is jerked , pull it up . '
His brothers lowered him accordingly , and when he had reached the other world , underneath the earth , he went on his way .
He walked and walked .
Presently he espied a horse with rich trappings , and it said to him : ` Hail , Prince Ivan !
Long have I awaited thee ! '
He mounted the horse and rode on -- rode and rode , until he saw standing before him a palace made of copper .
He entered the courtyard , tied up his horse , and went indoors .
In one of the rooms a dinner was laid out .
He sat down and dined , and then went into a bedroom .
There he found a bed , on which he lay down to rest .
Presently there came in a lady , more beautiful than can be imagined anywhere but in a fairy tale , who said : ` Thou who art in my house , name thyself !
If thou art an old man , thou shalt be my father ; if a middle-aged man , my brother ; but if a young man , thou shalt be my husband dear .
And if thou art a woman , and an old one , thou shalt be my grandmother ; if middle-aged , my mother ; and if a girl , thou shalt be my own sister . '
Thereupon he came forth .
And when she saw him she was delighted with him , and said : ` Wherefore , O Prince Ivan -- my husband dear shalt thou be !
-- wherefore hast thou come hither ? '
Then he told her all that had happened , and she said : ` That beast which thou wishest to overcome is my brother .
He is staying just now with my second sister , who lives not far from here in a silver palace .
I bound up three of the wounds which thou didst give him . '
Well , after this they drank , and enjoyed themselves , and held sweet converse together , and then the Prince took leave of her , and went on to the second sister , the one who lived in the silver palace , and with her also he stayed awhile .
She told him that her brother Norka was then at her youngest sister 's .
So he went on to the youngest sister , who lived in a golden palace .
She told him that her brother was at that time asleep on the blue sea , and she gave him a sword of steel and a draught of the Water of Strength , and she told him to cut off her brother 's head at a single stroke .
And when he had heard these things , he went his way .
And when the Prince came to the blue sea , he looked -- there slept the Norka on a stone in the middle of the sea ; and when it snored , the water was agitated for seven miles around .
The Prince crossed himself , went up to it , and smote it on the head with his sword .
The head jumped off , saying the while , ` Well , I 'm done for now ! '
and rolled far away into the sea .
After killing the beast , the Prince went back again , picking up all the three sisters by the way , with the intention of taking them out into the upper world : for they all loved him and would not be separated from him .
Each of them turned her palace into an egg -- for they were all enchantresses -- and they taught him how to turn the eggs into palaces , and back again , and they handed over the eggs to him .
And then they all went to the place from which they had to be hoisted into the upper world .
And when they came to where the rope was , the Prince took hold of it and made the maidens fast to it .
Then he jerked away at the rope and his brothers began to haul it up .
And when they had hauled it up , and had set eyes on the wondrous maidens , they went aside and said : ` Let 's lower the rope , pull our brother part of the way up , and then cut the rope .
Perhaps he 'll be killed ; but then if he is n't , he 'll never give us these beauties as wives . '
So when they had agreed on this , they lowered the rope .
But their brother was no fool ; he guessed what they were at , so he fastened the rope to a stone , and then gave it a pull .
His brothers hoisted the stone to a great height , and then cut the rope .
Down fell the stone and broke in pieces ; the Prince poured forth tears and went away .
Well , he walked and walked .
Presently a storm arose ; the lightning flashed , the thunder roared , the rain fell in torrents .
He went up to a tree in order to take shelter under it , and on that tree he saw some young birds which were being thoroughly drenched .
So he took off his coat and covered them over with it , and he himself sat down under the tree .
Presently there came flying a bird -- such a big one that the light was blotted out by it .
It had been dark there before , but now it became darker still .
Now this was the mother of those small birds which the Prince had covered up .
And when the bird had come flying up , she perceived that her little ones were covered over , and she said , ` Who has wrapped up my nestlings ? '
and presently , seeing the Prince , she added : ` Didst thou do that ?
Thanks !
In return , ask of me anything thou desirest .
I will do anything for thee . '
` Then carry me into the other world , ' he replied .
` Make me a large vessel with a partition in the middle , ' she said ; ` catch all sorts of game , and put them into one half of it , and into the other half pour water ; so that there may be meat and drink for me . '
All this the Prince did .
Then the bird -- having taken the vessel on her back , with the Prince sitting in the middle of it -- began to fly .
And after flying some distance she brought him to his journey 's end , took leave of him , and flew away back .
But he went to the house of a certain tailor , and engaged himself as his servant .
So much the worse for wear was he , so thoroughly had he altered in appearance , that nobody would have suspected him of being a Prince .
Having entered into the service of this master , the Prince began to ask what was going on in that country .
And his master replied : ` Our two Princes -- for the third one has disappeared -- have brought away brides from the other world , and want to marry them , but those brides refuse .
For they insist on having all their wedding-clothes made for them first , exactly like those which they used to have in the other world , and that without being measured for them .
The King has called all the workmen together , but not one of them will undertake to do it . '
The Prince , having heard all this , said , ` Go to the King , master , and tell him that you will provide everything that 's in your line . '
` However can I undertake to make clothes of that sort ?
I work for quite common folks , ' says his master .
` Go along , master !
I will answer for everything , ' says the Prince .
So the tailor went .
The King was delighted that at least one good workman had been found , and gave him as much money as ever he wanted .
When his tailor had settled everything , he went home .
And the Prince said to him : ` Now then , pray to God , and lie down to sleep ; to-morrow all will be ready . '
And the tailor followed his lad 's advice , and went to bed .
Midnight sounded .
The Prince arose , went out of the city into the fields , took out of his pocket the eggs which the maidens had given him , and , as they had taught him , turned them into three palaces .
Into each of these he entered , took the maidens ' robes , went out again , turned the palaces back into eggs , and went home .
And when he got there he hung up the robes on the wall , and lay down to sleep .
Early in the morning his master awoke , and behold !
there hung such robes as he had never seen before , all shining with gold and silver and precious stones .
He was delighted , and he seized them and carried them off to the King .
When the Princesses saw that the clothes were those which had been theirs in the other world , they guessed that Prince Ivan was in this world , so they exchanged glances with each other , but they held their peace .
And the master , having handed over the clothes , went home , but he no longer found his dear journeyman there .
For the Prince had gone to a shoemaker 's , and him too he sent to work for the King ; and in the same way he went the round of all the artificers , and they all proffered him thanks , inasmuch as through him they were enriched by the King .
By the time the princely workman had gone the round of all the artificers , the Princesses had received what they had asked for ; all their clothes were just like what they had been in the other world .
Then they wept bitterly because the Prince had not come , and it was impossible for them to hold out any longer ; it was necessary that they should be married .
But when they were ready for the wedding , the youngest bride said to the King : ` Allow me , my father , to go and give alms to the beggars . '
He gave her leave , and she went and began bestowing alms upon them , and examining them closely .
And when she had come to one of them , and was going to give him some money , she caught sight of the ring which she had given to the Prince in the other world , and her sisters ' rings too -- for it really was he .
So she seized him by the hand , and brought him into the hall , and said to the King : ` Here is he who brought us out of the other world .
His brothers forbade us to say that he was alive , threatening to slay us if we did . '
Then the King was wroth with those sons , and punished them as he thought best .
And afterwards three weddings were celebrated .
THE WONDERFUL BIRCH ONCE upon a time there were a man and a woman , who had an only daughter .
Now it happened that one of their sheep went astray , and they set out to look for it , and searched and searched , each in a different part of the wood .
Then the good wife met a witch , who said to her : ` If you spit , you miserable creature , if you spit into the sheath of my knife , or if you run between my legs , I shall change you into a black sheep . '
The woman neither spat , nor did she run between her legs , but yet the witch changed her into a sheep .
Then she made herself look exactly like the woman , and called out to the good man : ` Ho , old man , halloa !
I have found the sheep already ! '
The man thought the witch was really his wife , and he did not know that his wife was the sheep ; so he went home with her , glad at heart because his sheep was found .
When they were safe at home the witch said to the man : ` Look here , old man , we must really kill that sheep lest it run away to the wood again . '
The man , who was a peaceable quiet sort of fellow , made no objections , but simply said : ` Good , let us do so . '
The daughter , however , had overheard their talk , and she ran to the flock and lamented aloud : ` Oh , dear little mother , they are going to slaughter you ! '
` Well , then , if they do slaughter me , ' was the black sheep 's answer , ` eat you neither the meat nor the broth that is made of me , but gather all my bones , and bury them by the edge of the field . '
Shortly after this they took the black sheep from the flock and slaughtered it .
The witch made pease-soup of it , and set it before the daughter .
But the girl remembered her mother 's warning .
She did not touch the soup , but she carried the bones to the edge of the field and buried them there ; and there sprang up on the spot a birch tree -- a very lovely birch tree .
Some time had passed away -- who can tell how long they might have been living there ?
-- when the witch , to whom a child had been born in the meantime , began to take an ill-will to the man 's daughter , and to torment her in all sorts of ways .
Now it happened that a great festival was to be held at the palace , and the King had commanded that all the people should be invited , and that this proclamation should be made : ` Come , people all !
Poor and wretched , one and all !
Blind and crippled though ye be , Mount your steeds or come by sea . '
And so they drove into the King 's feast all the outcasts , and the maimed , and the halt , and the blind .
In the good man 's house , too , preparations were made to go to the palace .
The witch said to the man : ` Go you on in front , old man , with our youngest ; I will give the elder girl work to keep her from being dull in our absence . '
So the man took the child and set out .
But the witch kindled a fire on the hearth , threw a potful of barleycorns among the cinders , and said to the girl : ` If you have not picked the barley out of the ashes , and put it all back in the pot before nightfall , I shall eat you up ! '
Then she hastened after the others , and the poor girl stayed at home and wept .
She tried to be sure to pick up the grains of barley , but she soon saw how useless her labour was ; and so she went in her sore trouble to the birch tree on her mother 's grave , and cried and cried , because her mother lay dead beneath the sod and could help her no longer .
In the midst of her grief she suddenly heard her mother 's voice speak from the grave , and say to her : ` Why do you weep , little daughter ? '
` The witch has scattered barleycorns on the hearth , and bid me pick them out of the ashes , ' said the girl ; ` that is why I weep , dear little mother . '
` Do not weep , ' said her mother consolingly .
` Break off one of my branches , and strike the hearth with it crosswise , and all will be put right . '
The girl did so .
She struck the hearth with the birchen branch , and lo !
the barleycorns flew into the pot , and the hearth was clean .
Then she went back to the birch tree and laid the branch upon the grave .
Then her mother bade her bathe on one side of the stem , dry herself on another , and dress on the third .
When the girl had done all that , she had grown so lovely that no one on earth could rival her .
Splendid clothing was given to her , and a horse , with hair partly of gold , partly of silver , and partly of something more precious still .
The girl sprang into the saddle , and rode as swift as an arrow to the palace .
As she turned into the courtyard of the castle the King 's son came out to meet her , tied her steed to a pillar , and led her in .
He never left her side as they passed through the castle rooms ; and all the people gazed at her , and wondered who the lovely maiden was , and from what castle she came ; but no one knew her -- no one knew anything about her .
At the banquet the Prince invited her to sit next him in the place of honour ; but the witch 's daughter gnawed the bones under the table .
The Prince did not see her , and thinking it was a dog , he gave her such a push with his foot that her arm was broken .
Are you not sorry for the witch 's daughter ?
It was not her fault that her mother was a witch .
Towards evening the good man 's daughter thought it was time to go home ; but as she went , her ring caught on the latch of the door , for the King 's son had had it smeared with tar .
She did not take time to pull it off , but , hastily unfastening her horse from the pillar , she rode away beyond the castle walls as swift as an arrow .
Arrived at home , she took off her clothes by the birch tree , left her horse standing there , and hastened to her place behind the stove .
In a short time the man and the woman came home again too , and the witch said to the girl : ` Ah !
you poor thing , there you are to be sure !
You do n't know what fine times we have had at the palace !
The King 's son carried my daughter about , but the poor thing fell and broke her arm . '
The girl knew well how matters really stood , but she pretended to know nothing about it , and sat dumb behind the stove .
The next day they were invited again to the King 's banquet .
` Hey !
old man , ' said the witch , ` get on your clothes as quick as you can ; we are bidden to the feast .
Take you the child ; I will give the other one work , lest she weary . '
She kindled the fire , threw a potful of hemp seed among the ashes , and said to the girl : ` If you do not get this sorted , and all the seed back into the pot , I shall kill you ! '
The girl wept bitterly ; then she went to the birch tree , washed herself on one side of it and dried herself on the other ; and this time still finer clothes were given to her , and a very beautiful steed .
She broke off a branch of the birch tree , struck the hearth with it , so that the seeds flew into the pot , and then hastened to the castle .
Again the King 's son came out to meet her , tied her horse to a pillar , and led her into the banqueting hall .
At the feast the girl sat next him in the place of honour , as she had done the day before .
But the witch 's daughter gnawed bones under the table , and the Prince gave her a push by mistake , which broke her leg -- he had never noticed her crawling about among the people 's feet .
She was VERY unlucky !
The good man 's daughter hastened home again betimes , but the King 's son had smeared the door-posts with tar , and the girl 's golden circlet stuck to it .
She had not time to look for it , but sprang to the saddle and rode like an arrow to the birch tree .
There she left her horse and her fine clothes , and said to her mother : ' I have lost my circlet at the castle ; the door-post was tarred , and it stuck fast . '
` And even had you lost two of them , ' answered her mother , ' I would give you finer ones . '
Then the girl hastened home , and when her father came home from the feast with the witch , she was in her usual place behind the stove .
Then the witch said to her : ` You poor thing !
what is there to see here compared with what WE have seen at the palace ?
The King 's son carried my daughter from one room to another ; he let her fall , 't is true , and my child 's foot was broken . '
The man 's daughter held her peace all the time , and busied herself about the hearth .
The night passed , and when the day began to dawn , the witch awakened her husband , crying : ` Hi !
get up , old man !
We are bidden to the royal banquet . '
So the old man got up .
Then the witch gave him the child , saying : ` Take you the little one ; I will give the other girl work to do , else she will weary at home alone . '
She did as usual .
This time it was a dish of milk she poured upon the ashes , saying : ` If you do not get all the milk into the dish again before I come home , you will suffer for it . '
How frightened the girl was this time !
She ran to the birch tree , and by its magic power her task was accomplished ; and then she rode away to the palace as before .
When she got to the courtyard she found the Prince waiting for her .
He led her into the hall , where she was highly honoured ; but the witch 's daughter sucked the bones under the table , and crouching at the people 's feet she got an eye knocked out , poor thing !
Now no one knew any more than before about the good man 's daughter , no one knew whence she came ; but the Prince had had the threshold smeared with tar , and as she fled her gold slippers stuck to it .
She reached the birch tree , and laying aside her finery , she said : ` Alas I dear little mother , I have lost my gold slippers ! '
` Let them be , ' was her mother 's reply ; ` if you need them I shall give you finer ones . '
Scarcely was she in her usual place behind the stove when her father came home with the witch .
Immediately the witch began to mock her , saying : ` Ah !
you poor thing , there is nothing for you to see here , and WE -- ah : what great things we have seen at the palace !
My little girl was carried about again , but had the ill-luck to fall and get her eye knocked out .
You stupid thing , you , what do you know about anything ? '
` Yes , indeed , what can I know ? '
replied the girl ; ' I had enough to do to get the hearth clean . '
Now the Prince had kept all the things the girl had lost , and he soon set about finding the owner of them .
For this purpose a great banquet was given on the fourth day , and all the people were invited to the palace .
The witch got ready to go too .
She tied a wooden beetle on where her child 's foot should have been , a log of wood instead of an arm , and stuck a bit of dirt in the empty socket for an eye , and took the child with her to the castle .
When all the people were gathered together , the King 's son stepped in among the crowd and cried : ` The maiden whose finger this ring slips over , whose head this golden hoop encircles , and whose foot this shoe fits , shall be my bride . '
What a great trying on there was now among them all !
The things would fit no one , however .
` The cinder wench is not here , ' said the Prince at last ; ` go and fetch her , and let her try on the things . '
So the girl was fetched , and the Prince was just going to hand the ornaments to her , when the witch held him back , saying : ` Do n't give them to her ; she soils everything with cinders ; give them to my daughter rather . '
Well , then the Prince gave the witch 's daughter the ring , and the woman filed and pared away at her daughter 's finger till the ring fitted .
It was the same with the circlet and the shoes of gold .
The witch would not allow them to be handed to the cinder wench ; she worked at her own daughter 's head and feet till she got the things forced on .
What was to be done now ?
The Prince had to take the witch 's daughter for his bride whether he would or no ; he sneaked away to her father 's house with her , however , for he was ashamed to hold the wedding festivities at the palace with so strange a bride .
Some days passed , and at last he had to take his bride home to the palace , and he got ready to do so .
Just as they were taking leave , the kitchen wench sprang down from her place by the stove , on the pretext of fetching something from the cowhouse , and in going by she whispered in the Prince 's ear as he stood in the yard : ` Alas !
dear Prince , do not rob me of my silver and my gold . '
Thereupon the King 's son recognised the cinder wench ; so he took both the girls with him , and set out .
After they had gone some little way they came to the bank of a river , and the Prince threw the witch 's daughter across to serve as a bridge , and so got over with the cinder wench .
There lay the witch 's daughter then , like a bridge over the river , and could not stir , though her heart was consumed with grief .
No help was near , so she cried at last in her anguish : ` May there grow a golden hemlock out of my body !
perhaps my mother will know me by that token . '
Scarcely had she spoken when a golden hemlock sprang up from her , and stood upon the bridge .
Now , as soon as the Prince had got rid of the witch 's daughter he greeted the cinder wench as his bride , and they wandered together to the birch tree which grew upon the mother 's grave .
There they received all sorts of treasures and riches , three sacks full of gold , and as much silver , and a splendid steed , which bore them home to the palace .
There they lived a long time together , and the young wife bore a son to the Prince .
Immediately word was brought to the witch that her daughter had borne a son -- for they all believed the young King 's wife to be the witch 's daughter .
` So , so , ' said the witch to herself ; ' I had better away with my gift for the infant , then . '
And so saying she set out .
Thus it happened that she came to the bank of the river , and there she saw the beautiful golden hemlock growing in the middle of the bridge , and when she began to cut it down to take to her grandchild , she heard a voice moaning : ` Alas !
dear mother , do not cut me so ! '
` Are you here ? '
demanded the witch .
` Indeed I am , dear little mother , ' answered the daughter ` They threw me across the river to make a bridge of me . '
In a moment the witch had the bridge shivered to atoms , and then she hastened away to the palace .
Stepping up to the young Queen 's bed , she began to try her magic arts upon her , saying : ` Spit , you wretch , on the blade of my knife ; bewitch my knife 's blade for me , and I shall change you into a reindeer of the forest . '
` Are you there again to bring trouble upon me ? '
said the young woman .
She neither spat nor did anything else , but still the witch changed her into a reindeer , and smuggled her own daughter into her place as the Prince 's wife .
But now the child grew restless and cried , because it missed its mother 's care .
They took it to the court , and tried to pacify it in every conceivable way , but its crying never ceased .
` What makes the child so restless ? '
asked the Prince , and he went to a wise widow woman to ask her advice .
` Ay , ay , your own wife is not at home , ' said the widow woman ; ` she is living like a reindeer in the wood ; you have the witch 's daughter for a wife now , and the witch herself for a mother-in-law . '
` Is there any way of getting my own wife back from the wood again ? '
asked the Prince .
` Give me the child , ' answered the widow woman .
` I 'll take it with me to-morrow when I go to drive the cows to the wood .
I 'll make a rustling among the birch leaves and a trembling among the aspens -- perhaps the boy will grow quiet when he hears it . '
` Yes , take the child away , take it to the wood with you to quiet it , ' said the Prince , and led the widow woman into the castle .
` How now ?
you are going to send the child away to the wood ? '
said the witch in a suspicious tone , and tried to interfere .
But the King 's son stood firm by what he had commanded , and said : ` Carry the child about the wood ; perhaps that will pacify it . '
So the widow woman took the child to the wood .
She came to the edge of a marsh , and seeing a herd of reindeer there , she began all at once to sing -- ` Little Bright-eyes , little Redskin , Come nurse the child you bore !
That bloodthirsty monster , That man-eater grim , Shall nurse him , shall tend him no more .
They may threaten and force as they will , He turns from her , shrinks from her still , ' and immediately the reindeer drew near , and nursed and tended the child the whole day long ; but at nightfall it had to follow the herd , and said to the widow woman : ` Bring me the child to-morrow , and again the following day ; after that I must wander with the herd far away to other lands . '
The following morning the widow woman went back to the castle to fetch the child .
The witch interfered , of course , but the Prince said : ` Take it , and carry it about in the open air ; the boy is quieter at night , to be sure , when he has been in the wood all day . '
So the widow took the child in her arms , and carried it to the marsh in the forest .
There she sang as on the preceding day -- ` Little Bright-eyes , little Redskin , Come nurse the child you bore !
That bloodthirsty monster , That man-eater grim , Shall nurse him , shall tend him no more .
They may threaten and force as they will , He turns from her , shrinks from her still , ' and immediately the reindeer left the herd and came to the child , and tended it as on the day before .
And so it was that the child throve , till not a finer boy was to be seen anywhere .
But the King 's son had been pondering over all these things , and he said to the widow woman : ` Is there no way of changing the reindeer into a human being again ? ' '
I do n't rightly know , ' was her answer .
` Come to the wood with me , however ; when the woman puts off her reindeer skin I shall comb her head for her ; whilst I am doing so you must burn the skin . '
Thereupon they both went to the wood with the child ; scarcely were they there when the reindeer appeared and nursed the child as before .
Then the widow woman said to the reindeer : ` Since you are going far away to-morrow , and I shall not see you again , let me comb your head for the last time , as a remembrance of you . '
Good ; the young woman stript off the reindeer skin , and let the widow woman do as she wished .
In the meantime the King 's son threw the reindeer skin into the fire unobserved .
` What smells of singeing here ? '
asked the young woman , and looking round she saw her own husband .
` Woe is me !
you have burnt my skin .
Why did you do that ? '
` To give you back your human form again . '
` Alack-a-day !
I have nothing to cover me now , poor creature that I am ! '
cried the young woman , and transformed herself first into a distaff , then into a wooden beetle , then into a spindle , and into all imaginable shapes .
But all these shapes the King 's son went on destroying till she stood before him in human form again .
Alas !
wherefore take me home with you again , ' cried the young woman , ` since the witch is sure to eat me up ? '
` She will not eat you up , ' answered her husband ; and they started for home with the child .
But when the witch wife saw them she ran away with her daughter , and if she has not stopped she is running still , though at a great age .
And the Prince , and his wife , and the baby lived happy ever afterwards .
-LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- From the Russo-Karelian .
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK JACK SELLS THE COW ONCE upon a time there was a poor widow who lived in a little cottage with her only son Jack .
Jack was a giddy , thoughtless boy , but very kind-hearted and affectionate .
There had been a hard winter , and after it the poor woman had suffered from fever and ague .
Jack did no work as yet , and by degrees they grew dreadfully poor .
The widow saw that there was no means of keeping Jack and herself from starvation but by selling her cow ; so one morning she said to her son , ' I am too weak to go myself , Jack , so you must take the cow to market for me , and sell her . '
Jack liked going to market to sell the cow very much ; but as he was on the way , he met a butcher who had some beautiful beans in his hand .
Jack stopped to look at them , and the butcher told the boy that they were of great value , and persuaded the silly lad to sell the cow for these beans .
When he brought them home to his mother instead of the money she expected for her nice cow , she was very vexed and shed many tears , scolding Jack for his folly .
He was very sorry , and mother and son went to bed very sadly that night ; their last hope seemed gone .
At daybreak Jack rose and went out into the garden .
` At least , ' he thought , ' I will sow the wonderful beans .
Mother says that they are just common scarlet-runners , and nothing else ; but I may as well sow them . '
So he took a piece of stick , and made some holes in the ground , and put in the beans .
That day they had very little dinner , and went sadly to bed , knowing that for the next day there would be none and Jack , unable to sleep from grief and vexation , got up at day-dawn and went out into the garden .
What was his amazement to find that the beans had grown up in the night , and climbed up and up till they covered the high cliff that sheltered the cottage , and disappeared above it !
The stalks had twined and twisted themselves together till they formed quite a ladder .
` It would be easy to climb it , ' thought Jack .
And , having thought of the experiment , he at once resolved to carry it out , for Jack was a good climber .
However , after his late mistake about the cow , he thought he had better consult his mother first .
WONDERFUL GROWTH OF THE BEANSTALK So Jack called his mother , and they both gazed in silent wonder at the Beanstalk , which was not only of great height , but was thick enough to bear Jack 's weight . '
I wonder where it ends , ' said Jack to his mother ; ' I think I will climb up and see . '
His mother wished him not to venture up this strange ladder , but Jack coaxed her to give her consent to the attempt , for he was certain there must be something wonderful in the Beanstalk ; so at last she yielded to his wishes .
Jack instantly began to climb , and went up and up on the ladder-like bean till everything he had left behind him -- the cottage , the village , and even the tall church tower -- looked quite little , and still he could not see the top of the Beanstalk .
Jack felt a little tired , and thought for a moment that he would go back again ; but he was a very persevering boy , and he knew that the way to succeed in anything is not to give up .
So after resting for a moment he went on .
After climbing higher and higher , till he grew afraid to look down for fear he should be giddy , Jack at last reached the top of the Beanstalk , and found himself in a beautiful country , finely wooded , with beautiful meadows covered with sheep .
A crystal stream ran through the pastures ; not far from the place where he had got off the Beanstalk stood a fine , strong castle .
Jack wondered very much that he had never heard of or seen this castle before ; but when he reflected on the subject , he saw that it was as much separated from the village by the perpendicular rock on which it stood as if it were in another land .
While Jack was standing looking at the castle , a very strange-looking woman came out of the wood , and advanced towards him .
She wore a pointed cap of quilted red satin turned up with ermine , her hair streamed loose over her shoulders , and she walked with a staff .
Jack took off his cap and made her a bow .
` If you please , ma'am , ' said he , ` is this your house ? '
` No , ' said the old lady .
` Listen , and I will tell you the story of that castle .
` Once upon a time there was a noble knight , who lived in this castle , which is on the borders of Fairyland .
He had a fair and beloved wife and several lovely children : and as his neighbours , the little people , were very friendly towards him , they bestowed on him many excellent and precious gifts .
` Rumour whispered of these treasures ; and a monstrous giant , who lived at no great distance , and who was a very wicked being , resolved to obtain possession of them .
` So he bribed a false servant to let him inside the castle , when the knight was in bed and asleep , and he killed him as he lay .
Then he went to the part of the castle which was the nursery , and also killed all the poor little ones he found there .
` Happily for her , the lady was not to be found .
She had gone with her infant son , who was only two or three months old , to visit her old nurse , who lived in the valley ; and she had been detained all night there by a storm .
` The next morning , as soon as it was light , one of the servants at the castle , who had managed to escape , came to tell the poor lady of the sad fate of her husband and her pretty babes .
She could scarcely believe him at first , and was eager at once to go back and share the fate of her dear ones ; but the old nurse , with many tears , besought her to remember that she had still a child , and that it was her duty to preserve her life for the sake of the poor innocent .
` The lady yielded to this reasoning , and consented to remain at her nurse 's house as the best place of concealment ; for the servant told her that the giant had vowed , if he could find her , he would kill both her and her baby .
Years rolled on .
The old nurse died , leaving her cottage and the few articles of furniture it contained to her poor lady , who dwelt in it , working as a peasant for her daily bread .
Her spinning-wheel and the milk of a cow , which she had purchased with the little money she had with her , sufficed for the scanty subsistence of herself and her little son .
There was a nice little garden attached to the cottage , in which they cultivated peas , beans , and cabbages , and the lady was not ashamed to go out at harvest time , and glean in the fields to supply her little son 's wants .
` Jack , that poor lady is your mother .
This castle was once your father 's , and must again be yours . '
Jack uttered a cry of surprise .
` My mother !
oh , madam , what ought I to do ?
My poor father !
My dear mother ! '
` Your duty requires you to win it back for your mother .
But the task is a very difficult one , and full of peril , Jack .
Have you courage to undertake it ? ' '
I fear nothing when I am doing right , ' said Jack .
` Then , ' said the lady in the red cap , ` you are one of those who slay giants .
You must get into the castle , and if possible possess yourself of a hen that lays golden eggs , and a harp that talks .
Remember , all the giant possesses is really yours . '
As she ceased speaking , the lady of the red hat suddenly disappeared , and of course Jack knew she was a fairy .
Jack determined at once to attempt the adventure ; so he advanced , and blew the horn which hung at the castle portal .
The door was opened in a minute or two by a frightful giantess , with one great eye in the middle of her forehead .
As soon as Jack saw her he turned to run away , but she caught him , and dragged him into the castle .
` Ho , ho ! '
she laughed terribly .
` You did n't expect to see me here , that is clear !
No , I sha n't let you go again .
I am weary of my life .
I am so overworked , and I do n't see why I should not have a page as well as other ladies .
And you shall be my boy .
You shall clean the knives , and black the boots , and make the fires , and help me generally when the giant is out .
When he is at home I must hide you , for he has eaten up all my pages hitherto , and you would be a dainty morsel , my little lad . '
While she spoke she dragged Jack right into the castle .
The poor boy was very much frightened , as I am sure you and I would have been in his place .
But he remembered that fear disgraces a man ; so he struggled to be brave and make the best of things . '
I am quite ready to help you , and do all I can to serve you , madam , ' he said , ` only I beg you will be good enough to hide me from your husband , for I should not like to be eaten at all . '
` That 's a good boy , ' said the Giantess , nodding her head ; ` it is lucky for you that you did not scream out when you saw me , as the other boys who have been here did , for if you had done so my husband would have awakened and have eaten you , as he did them , for breakfast .
Come here , child ; go into my wardrobe : he never ventures to open THAT ; you will be safe there . '
And she opened a huge wardrobe which stood in the great hall , and shut him into it .
But the keyhole was so large that it ad-mitted plenty of air , and he could see everything that took place through it .
By-and-by he heard a heavy tramp on the stairs , like the lumbering along of a great cannon , and then a voice like thunder cried out ; ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bones to make my bread . '
` Wife , ' cried the Giant , ` there is a man in the castle .
Let me have him for breakfast . '
` You are grown old and stupid , ' cried the lady in her loud tones .
` It is only a nice fresh steak off an elephant , that I have cooked for you , which you smell .
There , sit down and make a good breakfast . '
And she placed a huge dish before him of savoury steaming meat , which greatly pleased him , and made him forget his idea of an Englishman being in the castle .
When he had breakfasted he went out for a walk ; and then the Giantess opened the door , and made Jack come out to help her .
He helped her all day .
She fed him well , and when evening came put him back in the wardrobe .
THE HEN THAT LAYS GOLDEN EGGS .
The Giant came in to supper .
Jack watched him through the keyhole , and was amazed to see him pick a wolf 's bone , and put half a fowl at a time into his capacious mouth .
When the supper was ended he bade his wife bring him his hen that laid the golden eggs .
` It lays as well as it did when it belonged to that paltry knight , ' he said ; ` indeed I think the eggs are heavier than ever . '
The Giantess went away , and soon returned with a little brown hen , which she placed on the table before her husband .
` And now , my dear , ' she said , ' I am going for a walk , if you do n't want me any longer . '
` Go , ' said the Giant ; ' I shall be glad to have a nap by-and-by . '
Then he took up the brown hen and said to her : ` Lay ! '
And she instantly laid a golden egg .
` Lay ! '
said the Giant again .
And she laid another .
` Lay ! '
he repeated the third time .
And again a golden egg lay on the table .
Now Jack was sure this hen was that of which the fairy had spoken .
By-and-by the Giant put the hen down on the floor , and soon after went fast asleep , snoring so loud that it sounded like thunder .
Directly Jack perceived that the Giant was fast asleep , he pushed open the door of the wardrobe and crept out ; very softly he stole across the room , and , picking up the hen , made haste to quit the apartment .
He knew the way to the kitchen , the door of which he found was left ajar ; he opened it , shut and locked it after him , and flew back to the Beanstalk , which he descended as fast as his feet would move .
When his mother saw him enter the house she wept for joy , for she had feared that the fairies had carried him away , or that the Giant had found him .
But Jack put the brown hen down before her , and told her how he had been in the Giant 's castle , and all his adventures .
She was very glad to see the hen , which would make them rich once more .
THE MONEY BAGS .
Jack made another journey up the Beanstalk to the Giant 's castle one day while his mother had gone to market ; but first he dyed his hair and disguised himself .
The old woman did not know him again , and dragged him in as she had done before , to help her to do the work ; but she heard her husband coming , and hid him in the wardrobe , not thinking that it was the same boy who had stolen the hen .
She bade him stay quite still there , or the Giant would eat him .
Then the Giant came in saying : ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bones to make my bread . '
` Nonsense ! '
said the wife , ` it is only a roasted bullock that I thought would be a tit-bit for your supper ; sit down and I will bring it up at once . '
The Giant sat down , and soon his wife brought up a roasted bullock on a large dish , and they began their supper .
Jack was amazed to see them pick the bones of the bullock as if it had been a lark .
As soon as they had finished their meal , the Giantess rose and said : ` Now , my dear , with your leave I am going up to my room to finish the story I am reading .
If you want me call for me . '
` First , ' answered the Giant , ` bring me my money bags , that I may count my golden pieces before I sleep . '
The Giantess obeyed .
She went and soon returned with two large bags over her shoulders , which she put down by her husband .
` There , ' she said ; ` that is all that is left of the knight 's money .
When you have spent it you must go and take another baron 's castle . '
` That he sha n't , if I can help it , ' thought Jack .
The Giant , when his wife was gone , took out heaps and heaps of golden pieces , and counted them , and put them in piles , till he was tired of the amusement .
Then he swept them all back into their bags , and leaning back in his chair fell fast asleep , snoring so loud that no other sound was audible .
Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe , and taking up the bags of money -LRB- which were his very own , because the Giant had stolen them from his father -RRB- , he ran off , and with great difficulty descending the Beanstalk , laid the bags of gold on his mother 's table .
She had just returned from town , and was crying at not finding Jack .
` There , mother , I have brought you the gold that my father lost . '
` Oh , Jack !
you are a very good boy , but I wish you would not risk your precious life in the Giant 's castle .
Tell me how you came to go there again . '
And Jack told her all about it .
Jack 's mother was very glad to get the money , but she did not like him to run any risk for her .
But after a time Jack made up his mind to go again to the Giant 's castle .
THE TALKING HARP .
So he climbed the Beanstalk once more , and blew the horn at the Giant 's gate .
The Giantess soon opened the door ; she was very stupid , and did not know him again , but she stopped a minute before she took him in .
She feared another robbery ; but Jack 's fresh face looked so innocent that she could not resist him , and so she bade him come in , and again hid him away in the wardrobe .
By-and-by the Giant came home , and as soon as he had crossed the threshold he roared out : ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bones to make my bread . '
` You stupid old Giant , ' said his wife , ` you only smell a nice sheep , which I have grilled for your dinner . '
And the Giant sat down , and his wife brought up a whole sheep for his dinner .
When he had eaten it all up , he said : ` Now bring me my harp , and I will have a little music while you take your walk . '
The Giantess obeyed , and returned with a beautiful harp .
The framework was all sparkling with diamonds and rubies , and the strings were all of gold .
` This is one of the nicest things I took from the knight , ' said the Giant . '
I am very fond of music , and my harp is a faithful servant . '
So he drew the harp towards him , and said : ` Play ! '
And the harp played a very soft , sad air .
` Play something merrier ! '
said the Giant .
And the harp played a merry tune .
` Now play me a lullaby , ' roared the Giant ; and the harp played a sweet lullaby , to the sound of which its master fell asleep .
Then Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe , and went into the huge kitchen to see if the Giantess had gone out ; he found no one there , so he went to the door and opened it softly , for he thought he could not do so with the harp in his hand .
Then he entered the Giant 's room and seized the harp and ran away with it ; but as he jumped over the threshold the harp called out : ` MASTER !
MASTER ! '
And the Giant woke up .
With a tremendous roar he sprang from his seat , and in two strides had reached the door .
But Jack was very nimble .
He fled like lightning with the harp , talking to it as he went -LRB- for he saw it was a fairy -RRB- , and telling it he was the son of its old master , the knight .
Still the Giant came on so fast that he was quite close to poor Jack , and had stretched out his great hand to catch him .
But , luckily , just at that moment he stepped upon a loose stone , stumbled , and fell flat on the ground , where he lay at his full length .
This accident gave Jack time to get on the Beanstalk and hasten down it ; but just as he reached their own garden he beheld the Giant descending after him .
` Mother I mother ! '
cried Jack , ` make haste and give me the axe . '
His mother ran to him with a hatchet in her hand , and Jack with one tremendous blow cut through all the Beanstalks except one .
` Now , mother , stand out of the way ! '
said he .
THE GIANT BREAKS HIS NECK .
Jack 's mother shrank back , and it was well she did so , for just as the Giant took hold of the last branch of the Beanstalk , Jack cut the stem quite through and darted from the spot .
Down came the Giant with a terrible crash , and as he fell on his head , he broke his neck , and lay dead at the feet of the woman he had so much injured .
Before Jack and his mother had recovered from their alarm and agitation , a beautiful lady stood before them .
` Jack , ' said she , ` you have acted like a brave knight 's son , and deserve to have your inheritance restored to you .
Dig a grave and bury the Giant , and then go and kill the Giantess . '
` But , ' said Jack , ' I could not kill anyone unless I were fighting with him ; and I could not draw my sword upon a woman .
Moreover , the Giantess was very kind to me . '
The Fairy smiled on Jack . '
I am very much pleased with your generous feeling , ' she said .
` Nevertheless , return to the castle , and act as you will find needful . '
Jack asked the Fairy if she would show him the way to the castle , as the Beanstalk was now down .
She told him that she would drive him there in her chariot , which was drawn by two peacocks .
Jack thanked her , and sat down in the chariot with her .
The Fairy drove him a long distance round , till they reached a village which lay at the bottom of the hill .
Here they found a number of miserable-looking men assembled .
The Fairy stopped her carriage and addressed them : ` My friends , ' said she , ` the cruel giant who oppressed you and ate up all your flocks and herds is dead , and this young gentleman was the means of your being delivered from him , and is the son of your kind old master , the knight . '
The men gave a loud cheer at these words , and pressed forward to say that they would serve Jack as faithfully as they had served his father .
The Fairy bade them follow her to the castle , and they marched thither in a body , and Jack blew the horn and demanded admittance .
The old Giantess saw them coming from the turret loop-hole .
She was very much frightened , for she guessed that something had happened to her husband ; and as she came downstairs very fast she caught her foot in her dress , and fell from the top to the bottom and broke her neck .
When the people outside found that the door was not opened to them , they took crowbars and forced the portal .
Nobody was to be seen , but on leaving the hall they found the body of the Giantess at the foot of the stairs .
Thus Jack took possession of the castle .
The Fairy went and brought his mother to him , with the hen and the harp .
He had the Giantess buried , and endeavoured as much as lay in his power to do right to those whom the Giant had robbed .
Before her departure for fairyland , the Fairy explained to Jack that she had sent the butcher to meet him with the beans , in order to try what sort of lad he was .
If you had looked at the gigantic Beanstalk and only stupidly wondered about it , ' she said , ' I should have left you where misfortune had placed you , only restoring her cow to your mother .
But you showed an inquiring mind , and great courage and enterprise , therefore you deserve to rise ; and when you mounted the Beanstalk you climbed the Ladder of Fortune . '
She then took her leave of Jack and his mother .
THE LITTLE GOOD MOUSE ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who loved each other so much that they were never happy unless they were together .
Day after day they went out hunting or fishing ; night after night they went to balls or to the opera ; they sang , and danced , and ate sugar-plums , and were the gayest of the gay , and all their subjects followed their example so that the kingdom was called the Joyous Land .
Now in the next kingdom everything was as different as it could possibly be .
The King was sulky and savage , and never enjoyed himself at all .
He looked so ugly and cross that all his subjects feared him , and he hated the very sight of a cheerful face ; so if he ever caught anyone smiling he had his head cut off that very minute .
This kingdom was very appropriately called the Land of Tears .
Now when this wicked King heard of the happiness of the Jolly King , he was so jealous that he collected a great army and set out to fight him , and the news of his approach was soon brought to the King and Queen .
The Queen , when she heard of it , was frightened out of her wits , and began to cry bitterly .
` Sire , ' she said , ` let us collect all our riches and run away as far as ever we can , to the other side of the world . '
But the King answered : ` Fie , madam !
I am far too brave for that .
It is better to die than to be a coward . '
Then he assembled all his armed men , and after bidding the Queen a tender farewell , he mounted his splendid horse and rode away .
When he was lost to sight the Queen could do nothing but weep , and wring her hands , and cry .
` Alas !
If the King is killed , what will become of me and of my little daughter ? '
and she was so sorrowful that she could neither eat nor sleep .
The King sent her a letter every day , but at last , one morning , as she looked out of the palace window , she saw a messenger approaching in hot haste .
` What news , courier ?
What news ? '
cried the Queen , and he answered : ` The battle is lost and the King is dead , and in another moment the enemy will be here . '
The poor Queen fell back insensible , and all her ladies carried her to bed , and stood round her weeping and wailing .
Then began a tremendous noise and confusion , and they knew that the enemy had arrived , and very soon they heard the King himself stamping about the palace seeking the Queen .
Then her ladies put the little Princess into her arms , and covered her up , head and all , in the bedclothes , and ran for their lives , and the poor Queen lay there shaking , and hoping she would not be found .
But very soon the wicked King clattered into the room , and in a fury because the Queen would not answer when he called to her , he tore back her silken coverings and tweaked off her lace cap , and when all her lovely hair came tumbling down over her shoulders , he wound it three times round his hand and threw her over his shoulder , where he carried her like a sack of flour .
The poor Queen held her little daughter safe in her arms and shrieked for mercy , but the wicked King only mocked her , and begged her to go on shrieking , as it amused him , and so mounted his great black horse , and rode back to his own country .
When he got there he declared that he would have the Queen and the little Princess hanged on the nearest tree ; but his courtiers said that seemed a pity , for when the baby grew up she would be a very nice wife for the King 's only son .
The King was rather pleased with this idea , and shut the Queen up in the highest room of a tall tower , which was very tiny , and miserably furnished with a table and a very hard bed upon the floor .
Then he sent for a fairy who lived near his kingdom , and after receiving her with more politeness than he generally showed , and entertaining her at a sumptuous feast , he took her up to see the Queen .
The fairy was so touched by the sight of her misery that when she kissed her hand she whispered : ` Courage , madam !
I think I see a way to help you . '
The Queen , a little comforted by these words , received her graciously , and begged her to take pity upon the poor little Princess , who had met with such a sudden reverse of fortune .
But the King got very cross when he saw them whispering together , and cried harshly : ` Make an end of these fine speeches , madam .
I brought you here to tell me if the child will grow up pretty and fortunate . '
Then the Fairy answered that the Princess would be as pretty , and clever , and well brought up as it was possible to be , and the old King growled to the Queen that it was lucky for her that it was so , as they would certainly have been hanged if it were otherwise .
Then he stamped off , taking the Fairy with him , and leaving the poor Queen in tears .
` How can I wish my little daughter to grow up pretty if she is to be married to that horrid little dwarf , the King 's son , ' she said to herself , ` and yet , if she is ugly we shall both be killed .
If I could only hide her away somewhere , so that the cruel King could never find her . '
As the days went on , the Queen and the little Princess grew thinner and thinner , for their hard-hearted gaoler gave them every day only three boiled peas and a tiny morsel of black bread , so they were always terribly hungry .
At last , one evening , as the Queen sat at her spinning-wheel -- for the King was so avaricious that she was made to work day and night -- she saw a tiny , pretty little mouse creep out of a hole , and said to it : ` Alas , little creature !
what are you coming to look for here ?
I only have three peas for my day 's provision , so unless you wish to fast you must go elsewhere . '
But the mouse ran hither and thither , and danced and capered so prettily , that at last the Queen gave it her last pea , which she was keeping for her supper , saying : ` Here , little one , eat it up ; I have nothing better to offer you , but I give this willingly in return for the amusement I have had from you . '
She had hardly spoken when she saw upon the table a delicious little roast partridge , and two dishes of preserved fruit .
` Truly , ' said she , ' a kind action never goes unrewarded ; ` and she and the little Princess ate their supper with great satisfaction , and then the Queen gave what was left to the little mouse , who danced better than ever afterwards .
The next morning came the gaoler with the Queen 's allowance of three peas , which he brought in upon a large dish to make them look smaller ; but as soon as he set it down the little mouse came and ate up all three , so that when the Queen wanted her dinner there was nothing left for her .
Then she was quite provoked , and said : ` What a bad little beast that mouse must be !
If it goes on like this I shall be starved . '
But when she glanced at the dish again it was covered with all sorts of nice things to eat , and the Queen made a very good dinner , and was gayer than usual over it .
But afterwards as she sat at her spinning-wheel she began to consider what would happen if the little Princess did not grow up pretty enough to please the King , and she said to herself : ` Oh !
if I could only think of some way of escaping . '
As she spoke she saw the little mouse playing in a corner with some long straws .
The Queen took them and began to plait them , saying : ` If only I had straws enough I would make a basket with them , and let my baby down in it from the window to any kind passer-by who would take care of her . '
By the time the straws were all plaited the little mouse had dragged in more and more , until the Queen had plenty to make her basket , and she worked at it day and night , while the little mouse danced for her amusement ; and at dinner and supper time the Queen gave it the three peas and the bit of black bread , and always found something good in the dish in their place .
She really could not imagine where all the nice things came from .
At last one day when the basket was finished , the Queen was looking out of the window to see how long a cord she must make to lower it to the bottom of the tower , when she noticed a little old woman who was leaning upon her stick and looking up at her .
Presently she said : ' I know your trouble , madam .
If you like I will help you . '
` Oh !
my dear friend , ' said the Queen .
` If you really wish to be of use to me you will come at the time that I will appoint , and I will let down my poor little baby in a basket .
If you will take her , and bring her up for me , when I am rich I will reward you splendidly . ' '
I do n't care about the reward , ' said the old woman , ` but there is one thing I should like .
You must know that I am very particular about what I eat , and if there is one thing that I fancy above all others , it is a plump , tender little mouse .
If there is such a thing in your garret just throw it down to me , and in return I will promise that your little daughter shall be well taken care of . '
The Queen when she heard this began to cry , but made no answer , and the old woman after waiting a few minutes asked her what was the matter .
` Why , ' said the Queen , ` there is only one mouse in this garret , and that is such a dear , pretty little thing that I can not bear to think of its being killed . '
` What ! '
cried the old woman , in a rage .
` Do you care more for a miserable mouse than for your own baby ?
Good-bye , madam !
I leave you to enjoy its company , and for my own part I thank my stars that I can get plenty of mice without troubling you to give them to me . '
And she hobbled off grumbling and growling .
As to the Queen , she was so disappointed that , in spite of finding a better dinner than usual , and seeing the little mouse dancing in its merriest mood , she could do nothing but cry .
That night when her baby was fast asleep she packed it into the basket , and wrote on a slip of paper , ` This unhappy little girl is called Delicia ! '
This she pinned to its robe , and then very sadly she was shutting the basket , when in sprang the little mouse and sat on the baby 's pillow .
` Ah !
little one , ' said the Queen , ` it cost me dear to save your life .
How shall I know now whether my Delicia is being taken care of or no ?
Anyone else would have let the greedy old woman have you , and eat you up , but I could not bear to do it . '
Whereupon the Mouse answered : ` Believe me , madam , you will never repent of your kindness . '
The Queen was immensely astonished when the Mouse began to speak , and still more so when she saw its little sharp nose turn to a beautiful face , and its paws to hands and feet ; then it suddenly grew tall , and the Queen recognised the Fairy who had come with the wicked King to visit her .
The Fairy smiled at her astonished look , and said : ' I wanted to see if you were faithful and capable of feeling a real friendship for me , for you see we fairies are rich in everything but friends , and those are hard to find . '
` It is not possible that YOU should want for friends , you charming creature , ' said the Queen , kissing her .
` Indeed it is so , ' the Fairy said .
` For those who are only friendly with me for their own advantage , I do not count at all .
But when you cared for the poor little mouse you could not have known there was anything to be gained by it , and to try you further I took the form of the old woman whom you talked to from the window , and then I was convinced that you really loved me . '
Then , turning to the little Princess , she kissed her rosy lips three times , saying : ` Dear little one , I promise that you shall be richer than your father , and shall live a hundred years , always pretty and happy , without fear of old age and wrinkles . '
The Queen , quite delighted , thanked the Fairy gratefully , and begged her to take charge of the little Delicia and bring her up as her own daughter .
This she agreed to do , and then they shut the basket and lowered it carefully , baby and all , to the ground at the foot of the tower .
The Fairy then changed herself back into the form of a mouse , and this delayed her a few seconds , after which she ran nimbly down the straw rope , but only to find when she got to the bottom that the baby had disappeared .
In the greatest terror she ran up again to the Queen , crying : ` All is lost !
my enemy Cancaline has stolen the Princess away .
You must know that she is a cruel fairy who hates me , and as she is older than I am and has more power , I can do nothing against her .
I know no way of rescuing Delicia from her clutches . '
When the Queen heard this terrible news she was heart-broken , and begged the Fairy to do all she could to get the poor little Princess back again .
At this moment in came the gaoler , and when he missed the little Princess he at once told the King , who came in a great fury asking what the Queen had done with her .
She answered that a fairy , whose name she did not know , had come and carried her off by force .
Upon this the King stamped upon the ground , and cried in a terrible voice : ` You shall be hung !
I always told you you should . '
And without another word he dragged the unlucky Queen out into the nearest wood , and climbed up into a tree to look for a branch to which he could hang her .
But when he was quite high up , the Fairy , who had made herself invisible and followed them , gave him a sudden push , which made him lose his footing and fall to the ground with a crash and break four of his teeth , and while he was trying to mend them the fairy carried the Queen off in her flying chariot to a beautiful castle , where she was so kind to her that but for the loss of Delicia the Queen would have been perfectly happy .
But though the good little mouse did her very utmost , they could not find out where Cancaline had hidden the little Princess .
Thus fifteen years went by , and the Queen had somewhat recovered from her grief , when the news reached her that the son of the wicked King wished to marry the little maiden who kept the turkeys , and that she had refused him ; the wedding-dresses had been made , nevertheless , and the festivities were to be so splendid that all the people for leagues round were flocking in to be present at them .
The Queen felt quite curious about a little turkey-maiden who did not wish to be a Queen , so the little mouse conveyed herself to the poultry-yard to find out what she was like .
She found the turkey-maiden sitting upon a big stone , barefooted , and miserably dressed in an old , coarse linen gown and cap ; the ground at her feet was all strewn with robes of gold and silver , ribbons and laces , diamonds and pearls , over which the turkeys were stalking to and fro , while the King 's ugly , disagreeable son stood opposite her , declaring angrily that if she would not marry him she should be killed .
The Turkey-maiden answered proudly : ' I never will marry you I you are too ugly and too much like your cruel father .
Leave me in peace with my turkeys , which I like far better than all your fine gifts . '
The little mouse watched her with the greatest admiration , for she was as beautiful as the spring ; and as soon as the wicked Prince was gone , she took the form of an old peasant woman and said to her : ` Good day , my pretty one !
you have a fine flock of turkeys there . '
The young Turkey-maiden turned her gentle eyes upon the old woman , and answered : ` Yet they wish me to leave them to become a miserable Queen !
what is your advice upon the matter ? '
` My child , ' said the Fairy , ' a crown is a very pretty thing , but you know neither the price nor the weight of it . ' '
I know so well that I have refused to wear one , ' said the little maiden , ` though I do n't know who was my father , or who was my mother , and I have not a friend in the world . '
` You have goodness and beauty , which are of more value than ten kingdoms , ' said the wise Fairy .
` But tell me , child , how came you here , and how is it you have neither father , nor mother , nor friend ? ' '
A Fairy called Cancaline is the cause of my being here , ' answered she , ` for while I lived with her I got nothing but blows and harsh words , until at last I could bear it no longer , and ran away from her without knowing where I was going , and as I came through a wood the wicked Prince met me , and offered to give me charge of the poultry-yard .
I accepted gladly , not knowing that I should have to see him day by day .
And now he wants to marry me , but that I will never consent to . '
Upon hearing this the Fairy became convinced that the little Turkey-maiden was none other than the Princess Delicia .
` What is your name , my little one ? '
said she . '
I am called Delicia , if it please you , ' she answered .
Then the Fairy threw her arms round the Princess 's neck , and nearly smothered her with kisses , saying : ` Ah , Delicia !
I am a very old friend of yours , and I am truly glad to find you at last ; but you might look nicer than you do in that old gown , which is only fit for a kitchen-maid .
Take this pretty dress and let us see the difference it will make . '
So Delicia took off the ugly cap , and shook out all her fair shining hair , and bathed her hands and face in clear water from the nearest spring till her cheeks were like roses , and when she was adorned with the diamonds and the splendid robe the Fairy had given her , she looked the most beautiful Princess in the world , and the Fairy with great delight cried : ` Now you look as you ought to look , Delicia : what do you think about it yourself ? '
And Delicia answered : ' I feel as if I were the daughter of some great king . '
` And would you be glad if you were ? '
said the Fairy .
` Indeed I should , ' answered she .
` Ah , well , ' said the Fairy , ` to-morrow I may have some pleasant news for you . '
So she hurried back to her castle , where the Queen sat busy with her embroidery , and cried : ` Well , madam !
will you wager your thimble and your golden needle that I am bringing you the best news you could possibly hear ? '
` Alas ! '
sighed the Queen , ` since the death of the Jolly King and the loss of my Delicia , all the news in the world is not worth a pin to me .
` There , there , do n't be melancholy , ' said the Fairy . '
I assure you the Princess is quite well , and I have never seen her equal for beauty .
She might be a Queen to-morrow if she chose ; ` and then she told all that had happened , and the Queen first rejoiced over the thought of Delicia 's beauty , and then wept at the idea of her being a Turkey-maiden . '
I will not hear of her being made to marry the wicked King 's son , ' she said .
` Let us go at once and bring her here . '
In the meantime the wicked Prince , who was very angry with Delicia , had sat himself down under a tree , and cried and howled with rage and spite until the King heard him , and cried out from the window : ` What is the matter with you , that you are making all this disturbance ? '
The Prince replied : ` It is all because our Turkey-maiden will not love me ! '
` Wo n't love you ?
eh ! '
said the King .
` We 'll very soon see about that ! '
So he called his guards and told them to go and fetch Delicia .
` See if I do n't make her change her mind pretty soon ! '
said the wicked King with a chuckle .
Then the guards began to search the poultry-yard , and could find nobody there but Delicia , who , with her splendid dress and her crown of diamonds , looked such a lovely Princess that they hardly dared to speak to her .
But she said to them very politely : ` Pray tell me what you are looking for here ? '
` Madam , ' they answered , ` we are sent for an insignificant little person called Delicia . '
` Alas ! '
said she , ` that is my name .
What can you want with me ? '
So the guards tied her hands and feet with thick ropes , for fear she might run away , and brought her to the King , who was waiting with his son .
When he saw her he was very much astonished at her beauty , which would have made anyone less hard-hearted sorry for her .
But the wicked King only laughed and mocked at her , and cried : ` Well , little fright , little toad !
why do n't you love my son , who is far too handsome and too good for you ?
Make haste and begin to love him this instant , or you shall be tarred and feathered . '
Then the poor little Princess , shaking with terror , went down on her knees , crying : ` Oh , do n't tar and feather me , please !
It would be so uncomfortable .
Let me have two or three days to make up my mind , and then you shall do as you like with me . '
The wicked Prince would have liked very much to see her tarred and feathered , but the King ordered that she should be shut up in a dark dungeon .
It was just at this moment that the Queen and the Fairy arrived in the flying chariot , and the Queen was dreadfully distressed at the turn affairs had taken , and said miserably that she was destined to be unfortunate all her days .
But the Fairy bade her take courage .
` I 'll pay them out yet , ' said she , nodding her head with an air of great determination .
That very same night , as soon as the wicked King had gone to bed , the Fairy changed herself into the little mouse , and creeping up on to his pillow nibbled his ear , so that he squealed out quite loudly and turned over on his other side ; but that was no good , for the little mouse only set to work and gnawed away at the second ear until it hurt more than the first one .
Then the King cried ` Murder ! '
and ` Thieves ! '
and all his guards ran to see what was the matter , but they could find nothing and nobody , for the little mouse had run off to the Prince 's room and was serving him in exactly the same way .
All night long she ran from one to the other , until at last , driven quite frantic by terror and want of sleep , the King rushed out of the palace crying : ` Help !
help !
I am pursued by rats . '
The Prince when he heard this got up also , and ran after the King , and they had not gone far when they both fell into the river and were never heard of again .
Then the good Fairy ran to tell the Queen , and they went together to the black dungeon where Delicia was imprisoned .
The Fairy touched each door with her wand , and it sprang open instantly , but they had to go through forty before they came to the Princess , who was sitting on the floor looking very dejected .
But when the Queen rushed in , and kissed her twenty times in a minute , and laughed , and cried , and told Delicia all her history , the Princess was wild with delight .
Then the Fairy showed her all the wonderful dresses and jewels she had brought for her , and said : ` Do n't let us waste time ; we must go and harangue the people . '
So she walked first , looking very serious and dignified , and wearing a dress the train of which was at least ten ells long .
Behind her came the Queen wearing a blue velvet robe embroidered with gold , and a diamond crown that was brighter than the sun itself .
Last of all walked Delicia , who was so beautiful that it was nothing short of marvellous .
They proceeded through the streets , returning the salutations of all they met , great or small , and all the people turned and followed them , wondering who these noble ladies could be .
When the audience hall was quite full , the Fairy said to the subjects of the Wicked King that if they would accept Delicia , who was the daughter of the Jolly King , as their Queen , she would undertake to find a suitable husband for her , and would promise that during their reign there should be nothing but rejoicing and merry-making , and all dismal things should be entirely banished .
Upon this the people cried with one accord , ` We will , we will !
we have been gloomy and miserable too long already . '
And they all took hands and danced round the Queen , and Delicia , and the good Fairy , singing : ` Yes , yes ; we will , we will ! '
Then there were feasts and fireworks in every street in the town , and early the next morning the Fairy , who had been all over the world in the night , brought back with her , in her flying chariot , the most handsome and good-tempered Prince she could find anywhere .
He was so charming that Delicia loved him from the moment their eyes met , and as for him , of course he could not help thinking himself the luckiest Prince in the world .
The Queen felt that she had really come to the end of her misfortunes at last , and they all lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 10 -RRB- -LRB- 10 -RRB- La bonne vetite Souris ' par Madame d'Aulnoy .
GRACIOSA AND PERCINET ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had one charming daughter .
She was so graceful and pretty and clever that she was called Graciosa , and the Queen was so fond of her that she could think of nothing else .
Everyday she gave the Princess a lovely new frock of gold brocade , or satin , or velvet , and when she was hungry she had bowls full of sugar-plums , and at least twenty pots of jam .
Everybody said she was the happiest Princess in the world .
Now there lived at this same court a very rich old duchess whose name was Grumbly .
She was more frightful than tongue can tell ; her hair was red as fire , and she had but one eye , and that not a pretty one !
Her face was as broad as a full moon , and her mouth was so large that everybody who met her would have been afraid they were going to be eaten up , only she had no teeth .
As she was as cross as she was ugly , she could not bear to hear everyone saying how pretty and how charming Graciosa was ; so she presently went away from the court to her own castle , which was not far off .
But if anybody who went to see her happened to mention the charming Princess , she would cry angrily : ` It 's not true that she is lovely .
I have more beauty in my little finger than she has in her whole body . '
Soon after this , to the great grief of the Princess , the Queen was taken ill and died , and the King became so melancholy that for a whole year he shut himself up in his palace .
At last his physicians , fearing that he would fall ill , ordered that he should go out and amuse himself ; so a hunting party was arranged , but as it was very hot weather the King soon got tired , and said he would dismount and rest at a castle which they were passing .
This happened to be the Duchess Grumbly 's castle , and when she heard that the King was coming she went out to meet him , and said that the cellar was the coolest place in the whole castle if he would condescend to come down into it .
So down they went together , and the King seeing about two hundred great casks ranged side by side , asked if it was only for herself that she had this immense store of wine .
` Yes , sire , ' answered she , ` it is for myself alone , but I shall be most happy to let you taste some of it .
Which do you like , canary , St. Julien , champagne , hermitage sack , raisin , or cider ? '
` Well , ' said the King , ` since you are so kind as to ask me , I prefer champagne to anything else . '
Then Duchess Grumbly took up a little hammer and tapped upon the cask twice , and out came at least a thousand crowns .
` What 's the meaning of this ? '
said she smiling .
Then she tapped the next cask , and out came a bushel of gold pieces . '
I do n't understand this at all , ' said the Duchess , smiling more than before .
Then she went on to the third cask , tap , tap , and out came such a stream of diamonds and pearls that the ground was covered with them .
` Ah ! '
she cried , ` this is altogether beyond my comprehension , sire .
Someone must have stolen my good wine and put all this rubbish in its place . '
` Rubbish , do you call it , Madam Grumbly ? '
cried the King .
` Rubbish !
why there is enough there to buy ten kingdoms . '
` Well , ' said she , ` you must know that all those casks are full of gold and jewels , and if you like to marry me it shall all be yours . '
Now the King loved money more than anything else in the world , so he cried joyfully : ` Marry you ?
why with all my heart !
to-morrow if you like . '
` But I make one condition , ' said the Duchess ; ' I must have entire control of your daughter to do as I please with her . '
` Oh certainly , you shall have your own way ; let us shake hands upon the bargain , ' said the King .
So they shook hands and went up out of the cellar of treasure together , and the Duchess locked the door and gave the key to the King .
When he got back to his own palace Graciosa ran out to meet him , and asked if he had had good sport . '
I have caught a dove , ' answered he .
` Oh !
do give it to me , ' said the Princess , ` and I will keep it and take care of it . ' '
I can hardly do that , ' said he , ` for , to speak more plainly , I mean that I met the Duchess Grumbly , and have promised to marry her . '
` And you call her a dove ? '
cried the Princess . '
I should have called her a screech owl . '
` Hold your tongue , ' said the King , very crossly . '
I intend you to behave prettily to her .
So now go and make yourself fit to be seen , as I am going to take you to visit her . '
So the Princess went very sorrowfully to her own room , and her nurse , seeing her tears , asked what was vexing her .
` Alas !
who would not be vexed ? '
answered she , ` for the King intends to marry again , and has chosen for his new bride my enemy , the hideous Duchess Grumbly . '
` Oh , well ! '
answered the nurse , ` you must remember that you are a Princess , and are expected to set a good example in making the best of whatever happens .
You must promise me not to let the Duchess see how much you dislike her . '
At first the Princess would not promise , but the nurse showed her so many good reasons for it that in the end she agreed to be amiable to her step-mother .
Then the nurse dressed her in a robe of pale green and gold brocade , and combed out her long fair hair till it floated round her like a golden mantle , and put on her head a crown of roses and jasmine with emerald leaves .
When she was ready nobody could have been prettier , but she still could not help looking sad .
Meanwhile the Duchess Grumbly was also occupied in attiring herself .
She had one of her shoe heels made an inch or so higher than the other , that she might not limp so much , and put in a cunningly made glass eye in the place of the one she had lost .
She dyed her red hair black , and painted her face .
Then she put on a gorgeous robe of lilac satin lined with blue , and a yellow petticoat trimmed with violet ribbons , and because she had heard that queens always rode into their new dominions , she ordered a horse to be made ready for her to ride .
While Graciosa was waiting until the King should be ready to set out , she went down all alone through the garden into a little wood , where she sat down upon a mossy bank and began to think .
And her thoughts were so doleful that very soon she began to cry , and she cried , and cried , and forgot all about going back to the palace , until she suddenly saw a handsome page standing before her .
He was dressed in green , and the cap which he held in his hand was adorned with white plumes .
When Graciosa looked at him he went down on one knee , and said to her : ` Princess , the King awaits you . '
The Princess was surprised , and , if the truth must be told , very much delighted at the appearance of this charming page , whom she could not remember to have seen before .
Thinking he might belong to the household of the Duchess , she said : ` How long have you been one of the King 's pages ? ' '
I am not in the service of the King , madam , ' answered he , ` but in yours . '
` In mine ? '
said the Princess with great surprise .
` Then how is it that I have never seen you before ? '
` Ah , Princess ! '
said he , ' I have never before dared to present myself to you , but now the King 's marriage threatens you with so many dangers that I have resolved to tell you at once how much I love you already , and I trust that in time I may win your regard .
I am Prince Percinet , of whose riches you may have heard , and whose fairy gift will , I hope , be of use to you in all your difficulties , if you will permit me to accompany you under this disguise . '
` Ah , Percinet ! '
cried the Princess , ` is it really you ?
I have so often heard of you and wished to see you .
If you will indeed be my friend , I shall not be afraid of that wicked old Duchess any more . '
So they went back to the palace together , and there Graciosa found a beautiful horse which Percinet had brought for her to ride .
As it was very spirited he led it by the bridle , and this arrangement enabled him to turn and look at the Princess often , which he did not fail to do .
Indeed , she was so pretty that it was a real pleasure to look at her .
When the horse which the Duchess was to ride appeared beside Graciosa 's , it looked no better than an old cart horse , and as to their trappings , there was simply no comparison between them , as the Princess 's saddle and bridle were one glittering mass of diamonds .
The King had so many other things to think of that he did not notice this , but all his courtiers were entirely taken up with admiring the Princess and her charming Page in green , who was more handsome and distinguished-looking than all the rest of the court put together .
When they met the Duchess Grumbly she was seated in an open carriage trying in vain to look dignified .
The King and the Princess saluted her , and her horse was brought forward for her to mount .
But when she saw Graciosa 's she cried angrily : ` If that child is to have a better horse than mine , I will go back to my own castle this very minute .
What is the good of being a Queen if one is to be slighted like this ? '
Upon this the King commanded Graciosa to dismount and to beg the Duchess to honour her by mounting her horse .
The Princess obeyed in silence , and the Duchess , without looking at her or thanking her , scrambled up upon the beautiful horse , where she sat looking like a bundle of clothes , and eight officers had to hold her up for fear she should fall off .
Even then she was not satisfied , and was still grumbling and muttering , so they asked her what was the matter . '
I wish that Page in green to come and lead the horse , as he did when Graciosa rode it , ' said she very sharply .
And the King ordered the Page to come and lead the Queen 's horse .
Percinet and the Princess looked at one another , but said never a word , and then he did as the King commanded , and the procession started in great pomp .
The Duchess was greatly elated , and as she sat there in state would not have wished to change places even with Graciosa .
But at the moment when it was least expected the beautiful horse began to plunge and rear and kick , and finally to run away at such a pace that it was impossible to stop him .
At first the Duchess clung to the saddle , but she was very soon thrown off and fell in a heap among the stones and thorns , and there they found her , shaken to a jelly , and collected what was left of her as if she had been a broken glass .
Her bonnet was here and her shoes there , her face was scratched , and her fine clothes were covered with mud .
Never was a bride seen in such a dismal plight .
They carried her back to the palace and put her to bed , but as soon as she recovered enough to be able to speak , she began to scold and rage , and declared that the whole affair was Graciosa 's fault , that she had contrived it on purpose to try and get rid of her , and that if the King would not have her punished , she would go back to her castle and enjoy her riches by herself .
At this the King was terribly frightened , for he did not at all want to lose all those barrels of gold and jewels .
So he hastened to appease the Duchess , and told her she might punish Graciosa in any way she pleased .
Thereupon she sent for Graciosa , who turned pale and trembled at the summons , for she guessed that it promised nothing agreeable for her .
She looked all about for Percinet , but he was nowhere to be seen ; so she had no choice but to go to the Duchess Grumbly 's room .
She had hardly got inside the door when she was seized by four waiting women , who looked so tall and strong and cruel that the Princess shuddered at the sight of them , and still more when she saw them arming themselves with great bundles of rods , and heard the Duchess call out to them from her bed to beat the Princess without mercy .
Poor Graciosa wished miserably that Percinet could only know what was happening and come to rescue her .
But no sooner did they begin to beat her than she found , to her great relief , that the rods had changed to bundles of peacock 's feathers , and though the Duchess 's women went on till they were so tired that they could no longer raise their arms from their sides , yet she was not hurt in the least .
However , the Duchess thought she must be black and blue after such a beating ; so Graciosa , when she was released , pretended to feel very bad , and went away into her own room , where she told her nurse all that had happened , and then the nurse left her , and when the Princess turned round there stood Percinet beside her .
She thanked him gratefully for helping her so cleverly , and they laughed and were very merry over the way they had taken in the Duchess and her waiting-maids ; but Percinet advised her still to pretend to be ill for a few days , and after promising to come to her aid whenever she needed him , he disappeared as suddenly as he had come .
The Duchess was so delighted at the idea that Graciosa was really ill , that she herself recovered twice as fast as she would have done otherwise , and the wedding was held with great magnificence .
Now as the King knew that , above all other things , the Queen loved to be told that she was beautiful , he ordered that her portrait should be painted , and that a tournament should be held , at which all the bravest knights of his court should maintain against all comers that Grumbly was the most beautiful princess in the world .
Numbers of knights came from far and wide to accept the challenge , and the hideous Queen sat in great state in a balcony hung with cloth of gold to watch the contests , and Graciosa had to stand up behind her , where her loveliness was so conspicuous that the combatants could not keep their eyes off her .
But the Queen was so vain that she thought all their admiring glances were for herself , especially as , in spite of the badness of their cause , the King 's knights were so brave that they were the victors in every combat .
However , when nearly all the strangers had been defeated , a young unknown knight presented himself .
He carried a portrait , enclosed in a bow encrusted with diamonds , and he declared himself willing to maintain against them all that the Queen was the ugliest creature in the world , and that the Princess whose portrait he carried was the most beautiful .
So one by one the knights came out against him , and one by one he vanquished them all , and then he opened the box , and said that , to console them , he would show them the portrait of his Queen of Beauty , and when he did so everyone recognised the Princess Graciosa .
The unknown knight then saluted her gracefully and retired , without telling his name to anybody .
But Graciosa had no difficulty in guessing that it was Percinet .
As to the Queen , she was so furiously angry that she could hardly speak ; but she soon recovered her voice , and overwhelmed Graciosa with a torrent of reproaches .
` What ! '
she said , ` do you dare to dispute with me for the prize of beauty , and expect me to endure this insult to my knights ?
But I will not bear it , proud Princess .
I will have my revenge . ' '
I assure you , Madam , ' said the Princess , ` that I had nothing to do with it and am quite willing that you shall be declared Queen of Beauty ` Ah !
you are pleased to jest , popinjay ! '
said the Queen , ` but it will be my turn soon ! '
The King was speedily told what had happened , and how the Princess was in terror of the angry Queen , but he only said : ` The Queen must do as she pleases .
Graciosa belongs to her ! '
The wicked Queen waited impatiently until night fell , and then she ordered her carriage to be brought .
Graciosa , much against her will , was forced into it , and away they drove , and never stopped until they reached a great forest , a hundred leagues from the palace .
This forest was so gloomy , and so full of lions , tigers , bears and wolves , that nobody dared pass through it even by daylight , and here they set down the unhappy Princess in the middle of the black night , and left her in spite of all her tears and entreaties .
The Princess stood quite still at first from sheer bewilderment , but when the last sound of the retreating carriages died away in the distance she began to run aimlessly hither and thither , sometimes knocking herself against a tree , sometimes tripping over a stone , fearing every minute that she would be eaten up by the lions .
Presently she was too tired to advance another step , so she threw herself down upon the ground and cried miserably : ` Oh , Percinet !
where are you ?
Have you forgotten me altogether ? '
She had hardly spoken when all the forest was lighted up with a sudden glow .
Every tree seemed to be sending out a soft radiance , which was clearer than moonlight and softer than daylight , and at the end of a long avenue of trees opposite to her the Princess saw a palace of clear crystal which blazed like the sun .
At that moment a slight sound behind her made her start round , and there stood Percinet himself .
` Did I frighten you , my Princess ? '
said he . '
I come to bid you welcome to our fairy palace , in the name of the Queen , my mother , who is prepared to love you as much as I do . '
The Princess joyfully mounted with him into a little sledge , drawn by two stags , which bounded off and drew them swiftly to the wonderful palace , where the Queen received her with the greatest kindness , and a splendid banquet was served at once .
Graciosa was so happy to have found Percinet , and to have escaped from the gloomy forest and all its terrors , that she was very hungry and very merry , and they were a gay party .
After supper they went into another lovely room , where the crystal walls were covered with pictures , and the Princess saw with great surprise that her own history was represented , even down to the moment when Percinet found her in the forest .
` Your painters must indeed be diligent , ' she said , pointing out the last picture to the Prince .
` They are obliged to be , for I will not have anything forgotten that happens to you , ' he answered .
When the Princess grew sleepy , twenty-four charming maidens put her to bed in the prettiest room she had ever seen , and then sang to her so sweetly that Graciosa 's dreams were all of mermaids , and cool sea waves , and caverns , in which she wandered with Percinet ; but when she woke up again her first thought was that , delightful as this fairy palace seemed to her , yet she could not stay in it , but must go back to her father .
When she had been dressed by the four-and-twenty maidens in a charming robe which the Queen had sent for her , and in which she looked prettier than ever , Prince Percinet came to see her , and was bitterly disappointed when she told him what she had been thinking .
He begged her to consider again how unhappy the wicked Queen would make her , and how , if she would but marry him , all the fairy palace would be hers , and his one thought would be to please her .
But , in spite of everything he could say , the Princess was quite determined to go back , though he at last persuaded her to stay eight days , which were so full of pleasure and amusement that they passed like a few hours .
On the last day , Graciosa , who had often felt anxious to know what was going on in her father 's palace , said to Percinet that she was sure that he could find out for her , if he would , what reason the Queen had given her father for her sudden disappearance .
Percinet at first offered to send his courier to find out , but the Princess said : ` Oh !
is n't there a quicker way of knowing than that ? '
` Very well , ' said Percinet , ` you shall see for yourself . '
So up they went together to the top of a very high tower , which , like the rest of the castle , was built entirely of rock-crystal .
There the Prince held Graciosa 's hand in his , and made her put the tip of her little finger into her mouth , and look towards the town , and immediately she saw the wicked Queen go to the King , and heard her say to him , ` That miserable Princess is dead , and no great loss either .
I have ordered that she shall be buried at once . '
And then the Princess saw how she dressed up a log of wood and had it buried , and how the old King cried , and all the people murmured that the Queen had killed Graciosa with her cruelties , and that she ought to have her head cut off .
When the Princess saw that the King was so sorry for her pretended death that he could neither eat nor drink , she cried : ` Ah , Percinet !
take me back quickly if you love me . '
And so , though he did not want to at all , he was obliged to promise that he would let her go .
` You may not regret me , Princess , ' he said sadly , ` for I fear that you do not love me well enough ; but I foresee that you will more than once regret that you left this fairy palace where we have been so happy . '
But , in spite of all he could say , she bade farewell to the Queen , his mother , and prepared to set out ; so Percinet , very unwillingly , brought the little sledge with the stags and she mounted beside him .
But they had hardly gone twenty yards when a tremendous noise behind her made Graciosa look back , and she saw the palace of crystal fly into a million splinters , like the spray of a fountain , and vanish .
` Oh , Percinet ! '
she cried , ` what has happened ?
The palace is gone . '
` Yes , ' he answered , ` my palace is a thing of the past ; you will see it again , but not until after you have been buried . '
` Now you are angry with me , ' said Graciosa in her most coaxing voice , ` though after all I am more to be pitied than you are . '
When they got near the palace the Prince made the sledge and themselves invisible , so the Princess got in unobserved , and ran up to the great hall where the King was sitting all by himself .
At first he was very much startled by Graciosa 's sudden appearance , but she told him how the Queen had left her out in the forest , and how she had caused a log of wood to be buried .
The King , who did not know what to think , sent quickly and had it dug up , and sure enough it was as the Princess had said .
Then he caressed Graciosa , and made her sit down to supper with him , and they were as happy as possible .
But someone had by this time told the wicked Queen that Graciosa had come back , and was at supper with the King , and in she flew in a terrible fury .
The poor old King quite trembled before her , and when she declared that Graciosa was not the Princess at all , but a wicked impostor , and that if the King did not give her up at once she would go back to her own castle and never see him again , he had not a word to say , and really seemed to believe that it was not Graciosa after all .
So the Queen in great triumph sent for her waiting women , who dragged the unhappy Princess away and shut her up in a garret ; they took away all her jewels and her pretty dress , and gave her a rough cotton frock , wooden shoes , and a little cloth cap .
There was some straw in a corner , which was all she had for a bed , and they gave her a very little bit of black bread to eat .
In this miserable plight Graciosa did indeed regret the fairy palace , and she would have called Percinet to her aid , only she felt sure he was still vexed with her for leaving him , and thought that she could not expect him to come .
Meanwhile the Queen had sent for an old Fairy , as malicious as herself , and said to her : ` You must find me some task for this fine Princess which she can not possibly do , for I mean to punish her , and if she does not do what I order , she will not be able to say that I am unjust . '
So the old Fairy said she would think it over , and come again the next day .
When she returned she brought with her a skein of thread , three times as big as herself ; it was so fine that a breath of air would break it , and so tangled that it was impossible to see the beginning or the end of it .
The Queen sent for Graciosa , and said to her : ` Do you see this skein ?
Set your clumsy fingers to work upon it , for I must have it disentangled by sunset , and if you break a single thread it will be the worse for you . '
So saying she left her , locking the door behind her with three keys .
The Princess stood dismayed at the sight of the terrible skein .
If she did but turn it over to see where to begin , she broke a thousand threads , and not one could she disentangle .
At last she threw it into the middle of the floor , crying : ` Oh , Percinet !
this fatal skein will be the death of me if you will not forgive me and help me once more . '
And immediately in came Percinet as easily as if he had all the keys in his own possession .
` Here I am , Princess , as much as ever at your service , ' said he , ` though really you are not very kind to me . '
Then he just stroked the skein with his wand , and all the broken threads joined themselves together , and the whole skein wound itself smoothly off in the most surprising manner , and the Prince , turning to Graciosa , asked if there was nothing else that she wished him to do for her , and if the time would never come when she would wish for him for his own sake .
` Do n't be vexed with me , Percinet , ' she said . '
I am unhappy enough without that . '
` But why should you be unhappy , my Princess ? '
cried he .
` Only come with me and we shall be as happy as the day is long together . '
` But suppose you get tired of me ? '
said Graciosa .
The Prince was so grieved at this want of confidence that he left her without another word .
The wicked Queen was in such a hurry to punish Graciosa that she thought the sun would never set ; and indeed it was before the appointed time that she came with her four Fairies , and as she fitted the three keys into the locks she said : ` I 'll venture to say that the idle minx has not done anything at all -- she prefers to sit with her hands before her to keep them white . '
But , as soon as she entered , Graciosa presented her with the ball of thread in perfect order , so that she had no fault to find , and could only pretend to discover that it was soiled , for which imaginary fault she gave Graciosa a blow on each cheek , that made her white and pink skin turn green and yellow .
And then she sent her back to be locked into the garret once more .
Then the Queen sent for the Fairy again and scolded her furiously .
` Do n't make such a mistake again ; find me something that it will be quite impossible for her to do , ' she said .
So the next day the Fairy appeared with a huge barrel full of the feathers of all sorts of birds .
There were nightingales , canaries , goldfinches , linnets , tomtits , parrots , owls , sparrows , doves , ostriches , bustards , peacocks , larks , partridges , and everything else that you can think of .
These feathers were all mixed up in such confusion that the birds themselves could not have chosen out their own .
` Here , ' said the Fairy , ` is a little task which it will take all your prisoner 's skill and patience to accomplish .
Tell her to pick out and lay in a separate heap the feathers of each bird .
She would need to be a fairy to do it . '
The Queen was more than delighted at the thought of the despair this task would cause the Princess .
She sent for her , and with the same threats as before locked her up with the three keys , ordering that all the feathers should be sorted by sunset .
Graciosa set to work at once , but before she had taken out a dozen feathers she found that it was perfectly impossible to know one from another .
` Ah !
well , ' she sighed , ` the Queen wishes to kill me , and if I must die I must .
I can not ask Percinet to help me again , for if he really loved me he would not wait till I called him , he would come without that . ' '
I am here , my Graciosa , ' cried Percinet , springing out of the barrel where he had been hiding .
` How can you still doubt that I love you with all my heart ? '
Then he gave three strokes of his wand upon the barrel , and all the feathers flew out in a cloud and settled down in neat little separate heaps all round the room .
` What should I do without you , Percinet ? '
said Graciosa gratefully .
But still she could not quite make up her mind to go with him and leave her father 's kingdom for ever ; so she begged him to give her more time to think of it , and he had to go away disappointed once more .
When the wicked Queen came at sunset she was amazed and infuriated to find the task done .
However , she complained that the heaps of feathers were badly arranged , and for that the Princess was beaten and sent back to her garret .
Then the Queen sent for the Fairy once more , and scolded her until she was fairly terrified , and promised to go home and think of another task for Graciosa , worse than either of the others .
At the end of three days she came again , bringing with her a box .
` Tell your slave , ' said he , ` to carry this wherever you please , but on no account to open it .
She will not be able to help doing so , and then you will be quite satisfied with the result . '
So the Queen came to Graciosa , and said : ` Carry this box to my castle , and place it upon the table in my own room .
But I forbid you on pain of death to look at what it contains . '
Graciosa set out , wearing her little cap and wooden shoes and the old cotton frock , but even in this disguise she was so beautiful that all the passers-by wondered who she could be .
She had not gone far before the heat of the sun and the weight of the box tired her so much that she sat down to rest in the shade of a little wood which lay on one side of a green meadow .
She was carefully holding the box upon her lap when she suddenly felt the greatest desire to open it .
` What could possibly happen if I did ? '
she said to herself . '
I should not take anything out .
I should only just see what was there . '
And without farther hesitation she lifted the cover .
Instantly out came swarms of little men and women , no taller than her finger , and scattered themselves all over the meadow , singing and dancing , and playing the merriest games , so that at first Graciosa was delighted and watched them with much amusement .
But presently , when she was rested and wished to go on her way , she found that , do what she would , she could not get them back into their box .
If she chased them in the meadow they fled into the wood , and if she pursued them into the wood they dodged round trees and behind sprigs of moss , and with peals of elfin laughter scampered back again into the meadow .
At last , weary and terrified , she sat down and cried .
` It is my own fault , ' she said sadly .
` Percinet , if you can still care for such an imprudent Princess , do come and help me once more . '
Immediately Percinet stood before her .
` Ah , Princess ! '
he said , ` but for the wicked Queen I fear you would never think of me at all . '
` Indeed I should , ' said Graciosa ; ' I am not so ungrateful as you think .
Only wait a little and I believe I shall love you quite dearly . '
Percinet was pleased at this , and with one stroke of his wand compelled all the wilful little people to come back to their places in the box , and then rendering the Princess invisible he took her with him in his chariot to the castle .
When the Princess presented herself at the door , and said that the Queen had ordered her to place the box in her own room , the governor laughed heartily at the idea .
` No , no , my little shepherdess , ' said he , ` that is not the place for you .
No wooden shoes have ever been over that floor yet . '
Then Graciosa begged him to give her a written message telling the Queen that he had refused to admit her .
This he did , and she went back to Percinet , who was waiting for her , and they set out together for the palace .
You may imagine that they did not go the shortest way , but the Princess did not find it too long , and before they parted she had promised that if the Queen was still cruel to her , and tried again to play her any spiteful trick , she would leave her and come to Percinet for ever .
When the Queen saw her returning she fell upon the Fairy , whom she had kept with her , and pulled her hair , and scratched her face , and would really have killed her if a Fairy could be killed .
And when the Princess presented the letter and the box she threw them both upon the fire without opening them , and looked very much as if she would like to throw the Princess after them .
However , what she really did do was to have a great hole as deep as a well dug in her garden , and the top of it covered with a flat stone .
Then she went and walked near it , and said to Graciosa and all her ladies who were with her : ' I am told that a great treasure lies under that stone ; let us see if we can lift it . '
So they all began to push and pull at it , and Graciosa among the others , which was just what the Queen wanted ; for as soon as the stone was lifted high enough , she gave the Princess a push which sent her down to the bottom of the well , and then the stone was let fall again , and there she was a prisoner .
Graciosa felt that now indeed she was hopelessly lost , surely not even Percinet could find her in the heart of the earth .
` This is like being buried alive , ' she said with a shudder .
` Oh , Percinet !
if you only knew how I am suffering for my want of trust in you !
But how could I be sure that you would not be like other men and tire of me from the moment you were sure I loved you ? '
As she spoke she suddenly saw a little door open , and the sunshine blazed into the dismal well .
Graciosa did not hesitate an instant , but passed through into a charming garden .
Flowers and fruit grew on every side , fountains plashed , and birds sang in the branches overhead , and when she reached a great avenue of trees and looked up to see where it would lead her , she found herself close to the palace of crystal .
Yes !
there was no mistaking it , and the Queen and Percinet were coming to meet her .
` Ah , Princess ! '
said the Queen , ` do n't keep this poor Percinet in suspense any longer .
You little guess the anxiety he has suffered while you were in the power of that miserable Queen . '
The Princess kissed her gratefully , and promised to do as she wished in everything , and holding out her hand to Percinet , with a smile , she said : ` Do you remember telling me that I should not see your palace again until I had been buried ?
I wonder if you guessed then that , when that happened , I should tell you that I love you with all my heart , and will marry you whenever you like ? '
Prince Percinet joyfully took the hand that was given him , and , for fear the Princess should change her mind , the wedding was held at once with the greatest splendour , and Graciosa and Percinet lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 11 -RRB- -LRB- 11 -RRB- Gracieuse et Percinet .
Mdme .
d'Aulnoy .
THE THREE PRINCESSES OF WHITELAND THERE was once upon a time a fisherman , who lived hard by a palace and fished for the King 's table .
One day he was out fishing , but caught nothing at all .
Let him do what he might with rod and line , there was never even so much as a sprat on his hook ; but when the day was well nigh over , a head rose up out of the water , and said : ` If you will give me what your wife shows you when you go home , you shall catch fish enough . '
So the man said ` Yes ' in a moment , and then he caught fish in plenty ; but when he got home at night , and his wife showed him a baby which had just been born , and fell a-weeping and wailing when he told her of the promise which he had given , he was very unhappy .
All this was soon told to the King up at the palace , and when he heard what sorrow the woman was in , and the reason of it , he said that he himself would take the child and see if he could not save it .
The baby was a boy , and the King took him at once and brought him up as his own son until the lad grew up .
Then one day he begged to have leave to go out with his father to fish ; he had a strong desire to do this , he said .
The King was very unwilling to permit it , but at last the lad got leave .
He stayed with his father , and all went prosperously and well with them the whole day , until they came back to land in the evening .
Then the lad found that he had lost his pocket-handkerchief , and would go out in the boat after it ; but no sooner had he got into the boat than it began to move off with him so quickly that the water foamed all round about , and all that the lad did to keep the boat back with the oars was done to no purpose , for it went on and on the whole night through , and at last he came to a white strand that lay far , far away .
There he landed , and when he had walked on for some distance he met an old man with a long white beard .
` What is the name of this country ? '
said the youth .
` Whiteland , ' answered the man , and then he begged the youth to tell him whence he came and what he was going to do , and the youth did so .
` Well , then , ' said the man , ` if you walk on farther along the seashore here , you will come to three princesses who are standing in the earth so that their heads alone are out of it .
Then the first of them will call you -- she is the eldest -- and will beg you very prettily to come to her and help her , and the second will do the same , but you must not go near either of them .
Hurry past , as if you neither saw nor heard them ; but you shall go to the third and do what she bids you ; it will bring you good fortune . '
When the youth came to the first princess , she called to him and begged him to come to her very prettily , but he walked on as if he did not even see her , and he passed by the second in the same way , but he went up to the third .
` If thou wilt do what I tell thee , thou shalt choose among us three , ' said the Princess .
So the lad said that he was most willing , and she told him that three Trolls had planted them all three there in the earth , but that formerly they had dwelt in the castle which he could see at some distance in the wood .
` Now , ' she said , ` thou shalt go into the castle , and let the Trolls beat thee one night for each of us , and if thou canst but endure that , thou wilt set us free . '
` Yes , ' answered the lad , ' I will certainly try to do so . '
` When thou goest in , ' continued the Princess , ` two lions will stand by the doorway , but if thou only goest straight between them they will do thee no harm ; go straight forward into a small dark chamber ; there thou shalt lie down .
Then the Troll will come and beat thee , but thou shalt take the flask which is hanging on the wall , and anoint thyself wheresoever he has wounded thee , after which thou shalt be as well as before .
Then lay hold of the sword which is hanging by the side of the flask , and smite the Troll dead . '
So he did what the Princess had told him .
He walked straight in between the lions just as if he did not see them , and then into the small chamber , and lay down on the bed .
The first night a Troll came with three heads and three rods , and beat the lad most unmercifully ; but he held out until the Troll was done with him , and then he took the flask and rubbed himself .
Having done this , he grasped the sword and smote the Troll dead .
In the morning when he went to the sea-shore the Princesses were out of the earth as far as their waists .
The next night everything happened in the same way , but the Troll who came then had six heads and six rods , and he beat him much more severely than the first had done but when the lad went out of doors next morning , the Princesses were out of the earth as far as their knees .
On the third night a Troll came who had nine heads and nine rods , and he struck the lad and flogged him so long , that at last he swooned away ; so the Troll took him up and flung him against the wall , and this made the flask of ointment fall down , and it splashed all over him , and he became as strong as ever again .
Then , without loss of time , he grasped the sword and struck the Troll dead , and in the morning when he went out of the castle the Princesses were standing there entirely out of the earth .
So he took the youngest for his Queen , and lived with her very happily for a long time .
At last , however , he took a fancy to go home for a short time to see his parents .
His Queen did not like this , but when his longing grew so great that he told her he must and would go , she said to him : ` One thing shalt thou promise me , and that is , to do what thy father bids thee , but not what thy mother bids thee , ' and this he promised .
So she gave him a ring , which enabled him who wore it to obtain two wishes .
He wished himself at home , and instantly found himself there ; but his parents were so amazed at the splendour of his apparel that their wonder never ceased .
When he had been at home for some days his mother wanted him to go up to the palace , to show the King what a great man he had become .
The father said , ` No ; he must not do that , for if he does we shall have no more delight in him this time ; ` but he spoke in vain , for the mother begged and prayed until at last he went .
When he arrived there he was more splendid , both in raiment and in all else , than the other King , who did not like it , and said : ` Well , you can see what kind of Queen mine is , but I ca n't see yours .
I do not believe you have such a pretty Queen as I have . '
` Would to heaven she were standing here , and then you would be able to see ! '
said the young King , and in an instant she was standing there .
But she was very sorrowful , and said to him , ` Why didst thou not remember my words , and listen only to what thy father said ?
Now must I go home again at once , and thou hast wasted both thy wishes . '
Then she tied a ring in his hair , which had her name upon it , and wished herself at home again .
And now the young King was deeply afflicted , and day out and day in went about thinking of naught else but how to get back again to his Queen . '
I will try to see if there is any place where I can learn how to find Whiteland , ' he thought , and journeyed forth out into the world .
When he had gone some distance he came to a mountain , where he met a man who was Lord over all the beasts in the forest -- for they all came to him when he blew a horn which he had .
So the King asked where Whiteland was . '
I do not know that , ' he answered , ` but I will ask my beasts . '
Then he blew his horn and inquired whether any of them knew where Whiteland lay , but there was not one who knew that .
So the man gave him a pair of snow shoes .
` When you have these on , ' he said , ` you will come to my brother , who lives hundreds of miles from here ; he is Lord over all the birds in the air -- ask him .
When you have got there , just turn the shoes so that the toes point this way , and then they will come home again of their own accord . '
When the King arrived there he turned the shoes as the Lord of the beasts had bidden him , and they went back .
And now he once more asked after Whiteland , and the man summoned all the birds together , and inquired if any of them knew where Whiteland lay .
No , none knew this .
Long after the others there came an old eagle .
He had been absent ten whole years , but he too knew no more than the rest .
` Well , well , ' said the man , ` then you shall have the loan of a pair of snow shoes of mine .
If you wear them you will get to my brother , who lives hundreds of miles from here .
He is Lord of all the fish in the sea -- you can ask him .
But do not forget to turn the shoes round . '
The King thanked him , put on the shoes , and when he had got to him who was Lord of all the fish in the sea , he turned the snow shoes round , and back they went just as the others had gone , and he asked once more where Whiteland was .
The man called the fish together with his horn , but none of them knew anything about it .
At last came an old , old pike , which he had great difficulty in bringing home to him .
When he asked the pike , it said , ` Yes , Whiteland is well known to me , for I have been cook there these ten years .
To-morrow morning I have to go back there , for now the Queen , whose King is staying away , is to marry some one else . '
` If that be the case I will give you a piece of advice , ' said the man .
` Not far from here on a moor stand three brothers , who have stood there a hundred years fighting for a hat , a cloak , and a pair of boots ; if any one has these three things he can make himself invisible , and if he desires to go to any place , he has but to wish and he is there .
You may tell them that you have a desire to try these things , and then you will be able to decide which of the men is to have them . '
So the King thanked him and went , and did what he had said .
` What is this that you are standing fighting about for ever and ever ? '
said he to the brothers ; ` let me make a trial of these things , and then I will judge between you . '
They willingly consented to this , but when he had got the hat , the cloak , and the boots , he said , ` Next time we meet you shall have my decision , ' and hereupon he wished himself away .
While he was going quickly through the air he fell in with the North Wind .
` And where may you be going ? '
said the North Wind .
` To Whiteland , ' said the King , and then he related what had happened to him .
` Well , ' said the North Wind , ` you can easily go a little quicker than I can , for I have to puff and blow into every corner ; but when you get there , place yourself on the stairs by the side of the door , and then I will come blustering in as if I wanted to blow down the whole castle , and when the Prince who is to have your Queen comes out to see what is astir , just take him by the throat and fling him out , and then I will try to carry him away from court . '
As the North Wind had said , so did the King .
He stood on the stairs , and when the North Wind came howling and roaring , and caught the roof and walls of the castle till they shook again , the Prince went out to see what was the matter ; but as soon as he came the King took him by the neck and flung him out , and then the North Wind laid hold of him and carried him off .
And when he was rid of him the King went into the castle .
At first the Queen did not know him , because he had grown so thin and pale from having travelled so long and so sorrowfully ; but when she saw her ring she was heartily glad , and then the rightful wedding was held , and held in such a way that it was talked about far and wide .
-LRB- 12 -RRB- -LRB- 12 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE VOICE OF DEATH ONCE upon a time there lived a man whose one wish and prayer was to get rich .
Day and night he thought of nothing else , and at last his prayers were granted , and he became very wealthy .
Now being so rich , and having so much to lose , he felt that it would be a terrible thing to die and leave all his possessions behind ; so he made up his mind to set out in search of a land where there was no death .
He got ready for his journey , took leave of his wife , and started .
Whenever he came to a new country the first question that he asked was whether people died in that land , and when he heard that they did , he set out again on his quest .
At last he reached a country where he was told that the people did not even know the meaning of the word death .
Our traveller was delighted when he heard this , and said : ` But surely there are great numbers of people in your land , if no one ever dies ? '
` No , ' they replied , ` there are not great numbers , for you see from time to time a voice is heard calling first one and then another , and whoever hears that voice gets up and goes away , and never comes back . '
` And do they see the person who calls them , ' he asked , ` or do they only hear his voice ? '
` They both see and hear him , ' was the answer .
Well , the man was amazed when he heard that the people were stupid enough to follow the voice , though they knew that if they went when it called them they would never return .
And he went back to his own home and got all his possessions together , and , taking his wife and family , he set out resolved to go and live in that country where the people did not die , but where instead they heard a voice calling them , which they followed into a land from which they never returned .
For he had made up his own mind that when he or any of his family heard that voice they would pay no heed to it , however loudly it called .
After he had settled down in his new home , and had got everything in order about him , he warned his wife and family that , unless they wanted to die , they must on no account listen to a voice which they might some day hear calling them .
For some years everything went well with them , and they lived happily in their new home .
But one day , while they were all sit-ting together round the table , his wife suddenly started up , exclaiming in a loud voice : ' I am coming !
I am coming ! '
And she began to look round the room for her fur coat , but her husband jumped up , and taking firm hold of her by the hand , held her fast , and reproached her , saying : ` Do n't you remember what I told you ?
Stay where you are unless you wish to die . '
` But do n't you hear that voice calling me ? '
she answered . '
I am merely going to see why I am wanted .
I shall come back directly . '
So she fought and struggled to get away from her husband , and to go where the voice summoned .
But he would not let her go , and had all the doors of the house shut and bolted .
When she saw that he had done this , she said : ` Very well , dear husband , I shall do what you wish , and remain where I am . '
So her husband believed that it was all right , and that she had thought better of it , and had got over her mad impulse to obey the voice .
But a few minutes later she made a sudden dash for one of the doors , opened it and darted out , followed by her husband .
He caught her by the fur coat , and begged and implored her not to go , for if she did she would certainly never return .
She said nothing , but let her arms fall backwards , and suddenly bending herself forward , she slipped out of the coat , leaving it in her husband 's hands .
He , poor man , seemed turned to stone as he gazed after her hurrying away from him , and calling at the top of her voice , as she ran : ' I am coming !
I am coming ! '
When she was quite out of sight her husband recovered his wits and went back into his house , murmuring : ` If she is so foolish as to wish to die , I ca n't help it .
I warned and implored her to pay no heed to that voice , however loudly it might call . '
Well , days and weeks and months and years passed , and nothing happened to disturb the peace of the household .
But one day the man was at the barber 's as usual , being shaved .
The shop was full of people , and his chin had just been covered with a lather of soap , when , suddenly starting up from the chair , he called out in a loud voice : ' I wo n't come , do you hear ?
I wo n't come ! '
The barber and the other people in the shop listened to him with amazement .
But again looking towards the door , he exclaimed : ' I tell you , once and for all , I do not mean to come , so go away . '
And a few minutes later he called out again : ` Go away , I tell you , or it will be the worse for you .
You may call as much as you like but you will never get me to come . '
And he got so angry that you might have thought that some one was actually standing at the door , tormenting him .
At last he jumped up , and caught the razor out of the barber 's hand , exclaiming : ` Give me that razor , and I 'll teach him to let people alone for the future . '
And he rushed out of the house as if he were running after some one , whom no one else saw .
The barber , determined not to lose his razor , pursued the man , and they both continued running at full speed till they had got well out of the town , when all of a sudden the man fell head foremost down a precipice , and never was seen again .
So he too , like the others , had been forced against his will to follow the voice that called him .
The barber , who went home whistling and congratulating himself on the escape he had made , described what had happened , and it was noised abroad in the country that the people who had gone away , and had never returned , had all fallen into that pit ; for till then they had never known what had happened to those who had heard the voice and obeyed its call .
But when crowds of people went out from the town to examine the ill-fated pit that had swallowed up such numbers , and yet never seemed to be full , they could discover nothing .
