All that they could see was a vast plain , that looked as if it had been there since the beginning of the world .
And from that time the people of the country began to die like ordinary mortals all the world over .
-LRB- 13 -RRB- -LRB- 13 -RRB- Roumanian Tales from the German of Mite Thremnitz .
THE SIX SILLIES ONCE upon a time there was a young girl who reached the age of thirty-seven without ever having had a lover , for she was so foolish that no one wanted to marry her .
One day , however , a young man arrived to pay his addresses to her , and her mother , beaming with joy , sent her daughter down to the cellar to draw a jug of beer .
As the girl never came back the mother went down to see what had become of her , and found her sitting on the stairs , her head in her hands , while by her side the beer was running all over the floor , as she had forgotten to close the tap .
` What are you doing there ? '
asked the mother . '
I was thinking what I shall call my first child after I am married to that young man .
All the names in the calendar are taken already . '
The mother sat down on the staircase beside her daughter and said , ' I will think about it with you , my dear . '
The father who had stayed upstairs with the young man was surprised that neither his wife nor his daughter came back , and in his turn went down to look for them .
He found them both sitting on the stairs , while beside them the beer was running all over the ground from the tap , which was wide open .
` What are you doing there ?
The beer is running all over the cellar . '
` We were thinking what we should call the children that our daughter will have when she marries that young man .
All the names in the calendar are taken already . '
` Well , ' said the father , ' I will think about it with you . '
As neither mother nor daughter nor father came upstairs again , the lover grew impatient , and went down into the cellar to see what they could all be doing .
He found them all three sitting on the stairs , while beside them the beer was running all over the ground from the tap , which was wide open .
` What in the world are you all doing that you do n't come upstairs , and that you let the beer run all over the cellar ? '
` Yes , I know , my boy , ' said the father , ` but if you marry our daughter what shall you call your children ?
All the names in the calendar are taken . '
When the young man heard this answer he replied : ` Well !
good-bye , I am going away .
When I shall have found three people sillier than you I will come back and marry your daughter . '
So he continued his journey , and after walking a long way he reached an orchard .
Then he saw some people knocking down walnuts , and trying to throw them into a cart with a fork .
` What are you doing there ? '
he asked .
` We want to load the cart with our walnuts , but we ca n't manage to do it . '
The lover advised them to get a basket and to put the walnuts in it , so as to turn them into the cart .
` Well , ' he said to himself , ' I have already found someone more foolish than those three . '
So he went on his way , and by-and-by he came to a wood .
There he saw a man who wanted to give his pig some acorns to eat , and was trying with all his might to make him climb up the oak-tree .
` What are you doing , my good man ? '
asked he . '
I want to make my pig eat some acorns , and I ca n't get him to go up the tree . '
` If you were to climb up and shake down the acorns the pig would pick them up . '
` Oh , I never thought of that . '
` Here is the second idiot , ' said the lover to himself .
Some way farther along the road he came upon a man who had never worn any trousers , and who was trying to put on a pair .
So he had fastened them to a tree and was jumping with all his might up in the air so that he should hit the two legs of the trousers as he came down .
` It would be much better if you held them in your hands , ' said the young man , ` and then put your legs one after the other in each hole . '
` Dear me to be sure !
You are sharper than I am , for that never occurred to me . '
And having found three people more foolish than his bride , or her father or her mother , the lover went back to marry the young lady .
And in course of time they had a great many children .
Story from Hainaut .
-LRB- M. Lemoine .
La Tradition .
No , 34 , -RRB- KARI WOODENGOWN THERE was once upon a time a King who had become a widower .
His Queen had left one daughter behind her , and she was so wise and so pretty that it was impossible for any one to be wiser or prettier .
For a long time the King went sorrowing for his wife , for he had loved her exceedingly ; but at last he grew tired of living alone , and married a Queen who was a widow , and she also had a daughter , who was just as ill-favoured and wicked as the other was good and beautiful .
The stepmother and her daughter were envious of the King 's daughter because she was so pretty , but so long as the King was at home they dared do her no harm , because his love for her was so great .
Then there came a time when he made war on another King and went away to fight , and then the new Queen thought that she could do what she liked ; so she both hungered and beat the King 's daughter and chased her about into every corner .
At last she thought that everything was too good for her , and set her to work to look after the cattle .
So she went about with the cattle , and herded them in the woods and in the fields .
Of food she got little or none , and grew pale and thin , and was nearly always weeping and sad .
Among the herd there was a great blue bull , which always kept itself very smart and sleek , and often came to the King 's daughter and let her stroke him .
So one day , when she was again sitting crying and sorrowing , the Bull came up to her and asked why she was always so full of care ?
She made no answer , but continued to weep .
` Well , ' said the Bull , ' I know what it is , though you will not tell me ; you are weeping because the Queen is unkind to you , and because she wants to starve you to death .
But you need be under no concern about food , for in my left ear there lies a cloth , and if you will but take it and spread it out , you can have as many dishes as you like . '
So she did this , and took the cloth and spread it out upon the grass , and then it was covered with the daintiest dishes that any one could desire , and there was wine , and mead , and cake .
And now she became brisk and well again , and grew so rosy , and plump , and fair that the Queen and her scraggy daughter turned blue and white with vexation at it .
The Queen could not imagine how her step-daughter could look so well on such bad food , so she ordered one of her handmaidens to follow her into the wood and watch her , and see how it was , for she thought that some of the servants must be giving her food .
So the maid followed her into the wood and watched , and saw how the step-daughter took the cloth out of the Blue Bull 's ear , and spread it out , and how the cloth was then covered with the most delicate dishes , which the step-daughter ate and regaled herself with .
So the waiting-maid went home and told the Queen .
And now the King came home , and he had conquered the other King with whom he had been at war .
So there was great gladness in the palace , but no one was more glad than the King 's daughter .
The Queen , however , pretended to be ill , and gave the doctor much money to say that she would never be well again unless she had some of the flesh of the Blue Bull to eat .
Both the King 's daughter and the people in the palace asked the doctor if there were no other means of saving her , and begged for the Bull 's life , for they were all fond of him , and they all declared that there was no such Bull in the whole country ; but it was all in vain , he was to be killed , and should be killed , and nothing else would serve .
When the King 's daughter heard it she was full of sorrow , and went down to the byre to the Bull .
He too was standing there hanging his head , and looking so downcast that she fell a-weeping over him .
` What are you weeping for ? '
said the Bull .
So she told him that the King had come home again , and that the Queen had pretended to be ill , and that she had made the doctor say that she could never be well again unless some of the flesh of the Blue Bull was given her to eat , and that now he was to be killed .
` When once they have taken my life they will soon kill you also , ' said the Bull .
` If you are of the same mind with me , we will take our departure this very night . '
The King 's daughter thought that it was bad to go and leave her father , but that it was worse still to be in the same house with the Queen , so she promised the Bull that she would come .
At night , when all the others had gone to bed , the King 's daughter stole softly down to the byre to the Bull , and he took her on his back and got out of the courtyard as quickly as he could .
So at cock-crow next morning , when the people came to kill the Bull , he was gone , and when the King got up and asked for his daughter she was gone too .
He sent forth messengers to all parts of the kingdom to search for them , and published his loss in all the parish churches , but there was no one who had seen anything of them .
In the meantime the Bull travelled through many lands with the King 's daughter on his back , and one day they came to a great copper-wood , where the trees , and the branches , and the leaves , and the flowers , and everything else was of copper .
But before they entered the wood the Bull said to the King 's daughter : ` When we enter into this wood , you must take the greatest care not to touch a leaf of it , or all will be over both with me and with you , for a Troll with three heads , who is the owner of the wood , lives here . '
So she said she would be on her guard , and not touch anything .
And she was very careful , and bent herself out of the way of the branches , and put them aside with her hands ; but it was so thickly wooded that it was all but impossible to get forward , and do what she might , she somehow or other tore off a leaf which got into her hand .
` Oh !
oh !
What have you done now ? '
said the Bull .
` It will now cost us a battle for life or death ; but do be careful to keep the leaf . '
Very soon afterwards they came to the end of the wood , and the Troll with three heads came rushing up to them .
` Who is that who is touching my wood ? '
said the Troll .
` The wood is just as much mine as yours ! '
said the Bull .
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
shrieked the Troll .
` That may be , ' said the Bull .
So they rushed on each other and fought , and as for the Bull he butted and kicked with all the strength of his body , but the Troll fought quite as well as he did , and the whole day went by before the Bull put an end to him , and then he himself was so full of wounds and so worn out that he was scarcely able to move .
So they had to wait a day , and the Bull told the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment which hung at the Troll 's belt , and rub him with it ; then he was himself again , and the next day they set off once more .
And now they journeyed on for many , many days , and then after a long , long time they came to a silver wood .
The trees , and the boughs , and the leaves , and the flowers , and everything else was of silver .
Before the Bull went into the wood , he said to the King 's daughter : ` When we enter into this wood you must , for Heaven 's sake , be very careful not to touch anything at all , and not to pluck off even so much as one leaf , or else all will be over both with you and with me .
A Troll with six heads lives here , who is the owner of the wood , and I do not think I should be able to overcome him . '
` Yes , ' said the King 's daughter , ' I will take good care not to touch what you do not wish me to touch . '
But when they got into the wood it was so crowded , and the trees so close together , that they could scarcely get forward .
She was as careful as she could be , and bent aside to get out of the way of the branches , and thrust them away from before her with her hands ; but every instant a branch struck against her eyes , and in spite of all her care , she happened to pull off one leaf .
` Oh !
oh !
What have you done now ? '
said the Bull .
It will now cost us a battle for life or death , for this Troll has six heads and is twice as strong as the other , but do be careful to keep the leaf . '
Just as he said this came the Troll .
` Who is that who is touching my wood ? '
he said .
` It is just as much mine as yours ! '
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
screamed the Troll .
` That may be , ' said the Bull , and rushed at the Troll , and gored out his eyes , and drove his horns right through him so that his entrails gushed out , but the Troll fought just as well as he did , and it was three whole days before the Bull got the life out of him .
But the Bull was then so weak and worn out that it was only with pain and effort that he could move , and so covered with wounds that the blood streamed from him .
So he told the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment that was hanging at the Troll 's belt , and anoint him with it .
She did this , and then he came to himself again , but they had to stay there and rest for a week before the Bull was able to go any farther .
At last they set forth on their way again , but the Bull was still weak , and at first could not go quickly .
The King 's daughter wished to spare him , and said that she was so young and light of foot that she would willingly walk , but he would not give her leave to do that , and she was forced to seat herself on his back again .
So they travelled for a long time , and through many lands , and the King 's daughter did not at all know where he was taking her , but after a long , long time they came to a gold wood .
It was so golden that the gold dripped off it , and the trees , and the branches , and the flowers , and the leaves were all of pure gold .
Here all happened just as it had happened in the copper wood and silver wood .
The Bull told the King 's daughter that on no account was she to touch it , for there was a Troll with nine heads who was the owner , and that he was much larger and stronger than both the others put together , and that he did not believe that he could overcome him .
So she said that she would take great care not to touch anything , and he should see that she did .
But when they got into the wood it was still thicker than the silver wood , and the farther they got into it the worse it grew .
The wood became thicker and thicker , and closer and closer , and at last she thought there was no way whatsoever by which they could get forward ; she was so terrified lest she should break anything off , that she sat and twisted , and turned herself on this side and on that , to get out of the way of the branches , and pushed them away from her with her hands , but every moment they struck against her eyes , so that she could not see what she was clutching at , and before she knew what she was doing she had a golden apple in her hands .
She was now in such terror that she began to cry , and wanted to throw it away , but the Bull said that she was to keep it , and take the greatest care of it , and comforted her as well as he could , but he believed that it would be a hard struggle , and he doubted whether it would go well with him .
Just then the Troll with nine heads came , and he was so frightful that the King 's daughter scarcely dared to look at him ` Who is this who is breaking my wood ? '
he screamed ` It is as much mine as yours ! '
said the Bull .
` We shall have a tussle for that ! '
screamed the Troll .
` That may be , ' said the Bull ; so they rushed at each other , and fought , and it was such a dreadful sight that the King 's daughter very nearly swooned .
The Bull gored the Troll 's eyes out and ran his horns right through him , but the Troll fought as well as he did , and when the Bull had gored one head to death the other heads breathed life into it again , so it was a whole week before the Bull was able to kill him .
But then he himself was so worn out and weak that he could not move at all .
His body was all one wound , and he could not even so much as tell the King 's daughter to take the horn of ointment out of the Troll 's belt and rub him with it .
She did this without being told ; so he came to himself again , but he had to lie there for three weeks and rest before he was in a state to move .
Then they journeyed onwards by degrees , for the Bull said that they had still a little farther to go , and in this way they crossed many high hills and thick woods .
This lasted for a while , and then they came upon the fells .
` Do you see anything ? '
asked the Bull .
` No , I see nothing but the sky above and the wild fell side , ' said the King 's daughter .
Then they climbed up higher , and the fell grew more level , so that they could see farther around them .
` Do you see anything now ? '
said the Bull .
` Yes , I see a small castle , far , far away , ' said the Princess .
` It is not so very little after all , ' said the Bull .
After a long , long time they came to a high hill , where there was a precipitous wall of rock .
` Do you see nothing now ? '
said the Bull .
` Yes , now I see the castle quite near , and now it is much , much larger , ' said the King 's daughter .
` Thither shall you go , ' said the Bull ; ` immediately below the castle there is a pig-sty , where you shall dwell .
When you get there , you will find a wooden gown which you are to put on , and then go to the castle and say that you are called Kari Woodengown , and that you are seeking a place .
But now you must take out your little knife and cut off my head with it , and then you must flay me and roll up my hide and put it there under the rock , and beneath the hide you must lay the copper leaf , and the silver leaf , and the golden apple .
Close beside the rock a stick is standing , and when you want me for anything you have only to knock at the wall of rock with that . '
At first she would not do it , but when the Bull said that this was the only reward that he would have for what he had done for her , she could do no otherwise .
So though she thought it very cruel , she slaved on and cut at the great animal with the knife till she had cut off his head and hide , and then she folded up the hide and laid it beneath the mountain wall , and put the copper leaf , and the silver leaf , and the golden apple inside it .
When she had done that she went away to the pig-sty , but all the way as she went she wept , and was very sorrowful .
Then she put on the wooden gown , and walked to the King 's palace .
When she got there she went into the kitchen and begged for a place , saying that her name was Kari Woodengown .
The cook told her that she might have a place and leave to stay there at once and wash up , for the girl who had done that before had just gone away .
` And as soon as you get tired of being here you will take yourself off too , ' said he .
` No , ' said she , ` that I shall certainly not . '
And then she washed up , and did it very tidily .
On Sunday some strangers were coming to the King 's palace , so Kari begged to have leave to carry up the water for the Prince 's bath , but the others laughed at her and said , ` What do you want there ?
Do you think the Prince will ever look at such a fright as you ? '
She would not give it up , however , but went on begging until at last she got leave .
When she was going upstairs her wooden gown made such a clatter that the Prince came out and said , ` What sort of a creature may you be ? ' '
I was to take this water to you , ' said Kari .
` Do you suppose that I will have any water that you bring ? '
said the Prince , and emptied it over her .
She had to bear that , but then she asked permission to go to church .
She got that , for the church was very near .
But first she went to the rock and knocked at it with the stick which was standing there , as the Bull had told her to do .
Instantly a man came forth and asked what she wanted .
The King 's daughter said that she had got leave to go to church and listen to the priest , but that she had no clothes to go in .
So he brought her a gown that was as bright as the copper wood , and she got a horse and saddle too from him .
When she reached the church she was so pretty and so splendidly dressed that every one wondered who she could be , and hardly anyone listened to what the priest was saying , for they were all looking far too much at her , and the Prince himself liked her so well that he could not take his eyes off her for an instant .
As she was walking out of church the Prince followed her and shut the church door after her , and thus he kept one of her gloves in his hand .
Then she went away and mounted her horse again ; the Prince again followed her , and asked her whence she came .
` Oh !
I am from Bathland , ' said Kari .
And when the Prince took out the glove and wanted to give it back to her , she said : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm going to-day ! '
The Prince had never seen the equal of that glove , and he went far and wide , asking after the country which the proud lady , who rode away without her glove , had said that she came from , but there was no one who could tell him where it lay .
Next Sunday some one had to take up a towel to the Prince .
` Ah !
may I have leave to go up with that ? '
said Kari .
` What would be the use of that ? '
said the others who were in the kitchen ; ` you saw what happened last time . '
Kari would not give in , but went on begging for leave till she got it , and then she ran up the stairs so that her wooden gown clattered again .
Out came the Prince , and when he saw that it was Kari , he snatched the towel from her and flung it right in her eyes .
` Be off at once , you ugly Troll , ' said he ; ` do you think that I will have a towel that has been touched by your dirty fingers ? '
After that the Prince went to church , and Kari also asked leave to go .
They all asked how she could want to go to church when she had nothing to wear but that wooden gown , which was so black and hideous .
But Kari said she thought the priest was such a good man at preaching that she got so much benefit from what he said , and at last she got leave .
She went to the rock and knocked , whereupon out came the man and gave her a gown which was much more magnificent than the first .
It was embroidered with silver all over it , and it shone like the silver wood , and he gave her also a most beautiful horse , with housings embroidered with silver , and a bridle of silver too .
When the King 's daughter got to church all the people were standing outside upon the hillside , and all of them wondered who on earth she could be , and the Prince was on the alert in a moment , and came and wanted to hold her horse while she alighted .
But she jumped off and said that there was no need for that , for the horse was so well broken in that it stood still when she bade it and came when she called it .
So they all went into the church together , but there was scarcely any one who listened to what the priest was saying , for they were all looking far too much at her , and the Prince fell much more deeply in love with her than he had been before .
When the sermon was over and she went out of the church , and was just going to mount her horse , the Prince again came and asked her where she came from . '
I am from Towelland , ' said the King 's daughter , and as she spoke she dropped her riding-whip , and while the Prince was stooping to pick it up she said : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm going to-day ! '
And she was gone again , neither could the Prince see what had become of her .
He went far and wide to inquire for that country from whence she had said that she came , but there was no one who could tell him where it lay , so he was forced to have patience once more .
Next Sunday some one had to go to the Prince with a comb .
Kari begged for leave to go with it , but the others reminded her of what had happened last time , and scolded her for wanting to let the Prince see her when she was so black and so ugly in her wooden gown , but she would not give up asking until they gave her leave to go up to the Prince with the comb .
When she went clattering up the stairs again , out came the Prince and took the comb and flung it at her , and ordered her to be off as fast as she could .
After that the Prince went to church , and Kari also begged for leave to go .
Again they all asked what she would do there , she who was so black and ugly , and had no clothes that she could be seen in by other people .
The Prince or some one else might very easily catch sight of her , they said , and then both she and they would suffer for it ; but Kari said that they had something else to do than to look at her , and she never ceased begging until she got leave to go .
And now all happened just as it had happened twice already .
She went away to the rock and knocked at it with the stick , and then the man came out and gave her a gown which was very much more magnificent than either of the others .
It was almost entirely made of pure gold and diamonds , and she also got a noble horse with housings embroidered with gold , and a golden bridle .
When the King 's daughter came to the church the priest and people were all standing on the hillside waiting for her , and the Prince ran up and wanted to hold the horse , but she jumped off , saying : ` No , thank you , there is no need ; my horse is so well broken in that it will stand still when I bid it . '
So they all hastened into the church together and the priest got into the pulpit , but no one listened to what he said , for they were looking far too much at her and wondering whence she came ; and the Prince was far more in love than he had been on either of the former occasions , and he was mindful of nothing but of looking at her .
When the sermon was over and the King 's daughter was about to leave the church , the Prince had caused a firkin of tar to be emptied out in the porch in order that he might go to help her over it ; she , however , did not trouble herself in the least about the tar , but set her foot down in the middle of it and jumped over it , and thus one of her gold shoes was left sticking in it .
When she had seated herself on the horse the Prince came running out of the church and asked her whence she came .
` From Combland , ' said Kari .
But when the Prince wanted to reach her her gold shoe , she said : ` Darkness behind me , but light on my way , That the Prince may not see where I 'm going to-day ! '
The Prince did not know what had become of her , so he travelled for a long and wearisome time all over the world , asking where Combland was ; but when no one could tell him where that country was , he caused it to be made known everywhere that he would marry any woman who could put on the gold shoe .
So fair maidens and ugly maidens came thither from all regions , but there was none who had a foot so small that she could put on the gold shoe .
After a long , long while came Kari Woodengown 's wicked stepmother , with her daughter too , and the shoe fitted her .
But she was so ugly and looked so loathsome that the Prince was very unwilling to do what he had promised .
Nevertheless all was got ready for the wedding , and she was decked out as a bride , but as they were riding to church a little bird sat upon a tree and sang : ' A slice off her heel And a slice off her toes , Kari Woodengown 's shoe Fills with blood as she goes ! '
And when they looked to it the bird had spoken the truth , for blood was trickling out of the shoe .
So all the waiting-maids , and all the womenkind in the castle had to come and try on the shoe , but there was not one whom it would fit .
` But where is Kari Woodengown , then ? '
asked the Prince , when all the others had tried on the shoe , for he understood the song of birds and it came to his mind what the bird had said .
` Oh !
that creature ! '
said the others ; ` it 's not the least use for her to come here , for she has feet like a horse ! '
` That may be , ' said the Prince , ` but as all the others have tried it , Kari may try it too . '
` Kari ! '
he called out through the door , and Kari came upstairs , and her wooden gown clattered as if a whole regiment of dragoons were coming up .
` Now , you are to try on the gold shoe and be a Princess , ' said the other servants , and they laughed at her and mocked her .
Kari took up the shoe , put her foot into it as easily as possible , and then threw off her wooden gown , and there she stood in the golden gown which flashed like rays of sunshine , and on her other foot she had the fellow to the gold shoe .
The Prince knew her in a moment , and was so glad that he ran and took her in his arms and kissed her , and when he heard that she was a King 's daughter he was gladder still , and then they had the wedding .
-LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
DRAKESTAIL DRAKESTAIL was very little , that is why he was called Drakestail ; but tiny as he was he had brains , and he knew what he was about , for having begun with nothing he ended by amassing a hundred crowns .
Now the King of the country , who was very extravagant and never kept any money , having heard that Drakestail had some , went one day in his own person to borrow his hoard , and , my word , in those days Drakestail was not a little proud of having lent money to the King .
But after the first and second year , seeing that they never even dreamed of paying the interest , he became uneasy , so much so that at last he resolved to go and see His Majesty himself , and get repaid .
So one fine morning Drakestail , very spruce and fresh , takes the road , singing : ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
He had not gone far when he met friend Fox , on his rounds that way .
` Good-morning , neighbour , ' says the friend , ` where are you off to so early ? ' '
I am going to the King for what he owes me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail said to himself : ` One ca n't have too many friends . '
... ' I will , ' says he , ` but going on all-fours you will soon be tired .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Happy thought ! '
says friend Fox .
He takes bag and baggage , and , presto !
is gone like a letter into the post .
And Drakestail is off again , all spruce and fresh , still singing : ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I have my money back ? '
He had not gone far when he met his lady-friend Ladder , leaning on her wall .
` Good morning , my duckling , ' says the lady friend , ` whither away so bold ? ' '
I am going to the King for what he owes me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail said to himself : ` One ca n't have too many friends . '
... ' I will , ' says he , ` but with your wooden legs you will soon be tired .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Happy thought ! '
says my friend Ladder , and nimble , bag and baggage , goes to keep company with friend Fox .
And ` Quack , quack , quack . '
Drakestail is off again , singing and spruce as before .
A little farther he meets his sweetheart , my friend River , wandering quietly in the sunshine .
` Thou , my cherub , ' says she , ` whither so lonesome , with arching tail , on this muddy road ? ' '
I am going to the King , you know , for what he owes me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail said to himself : ` We ca n't be too many friends . '
... ' I will , ' says he , ` but you who sleep while you walk will soon be tired .
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat -- go into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` Ah !
happy thought ! '
says my friend River .
She takes bag and baggage , and glou , glou , glou , she takes her place between friend Fox and my friend Ladder .
And ` Quack , quack , quack . '
Drakestail is off again singing .
A little farther on he meets comrade Wasp 's - nest , manoeuvring his wasps .
` Well , good-morning , friend Drakestail , ' said comrade Wasp 's - nest , ` where are we bound for so spruce and fresh ? ' '
I am going to the King for what he owes me . '
` Oh !
take me with thee ! '
Drakestail said to himself , ` One ca n't have too many friends . '
... ' I will , ' says he , ` but with your battalion to drag along , you will soon be tired .
Make yourself quite small , go into my throat -- get into my gizzard and I will carry you . '
` By Jove I that 's a good idea ! '
says comrade Wasp 's - nest .
And left file !
he takes the same road to join the others with all his party .
There was not much more room , but by closing up a bit they managed ... And Drakestail is off again singing .
He arrived thus at the capital , and threaded his way straight up the High Street , still running and singing ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
to the great astonishment of the good folks , till he came to the King 's palace .
He strikes with the knocker : ` Toc !
toc ! '
` Who is there ? '
asks the porter , putting his head out of the wicket . ''
Tis I , Drakestail .
I wish to speak to the King . '
` Speak to the King !
... That 's easily said .
The King is dining , and will not be disturbed . '
` Tell him that it is I , and I have come he well knows why . '
The porter shuts his wicket and goes up to say it to the King , who was just sitting down to dinner with a napkin round his neck , and all his ministers .
` Good , good ! '
said the King laughing . '
I know what it is !
Make him come in , and put him with the turkeys and chickens . '
The porter descends .
` Have the goodness to enter . '
` Good ! '
says Drakestail to himself , ' I shall now see how they eat at court . '
` This way , this way , ' says the porter .
` One step further ... There , there you are . '
` How ?
what ?
in the poultry yard ? '
Fancy how vexed Drakestail was !
` Ah !
so that 's it , ' says he .
` Wait !
I will compel you to receive me .
Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
But turkeys and chickens are creatures who do n't like people that are not as themselves .
When they saw the new-comer and how he was made , and when they heard him crying too , they began to look black at him .
` What is it ?
what does he want ? '
Finally they rushed at him all together , to overwhelm him with pecks . '
I am lost ! '
said Drakestail to himself , when by good luck he remembers his comrade friend Fox , and he cries : ` Reynard , Reynard , come out of your earth , Or Drakestail 's life is of little worth . '
Then friend Fox , who was only waiting for these words , hastens out , throws himself on the wicked fowls , and quick !
quack !
he tears them to pieces ; so much so that at the end of five minutes there was not one left alive .
And Drakestail , quite content , began to sing again , ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
When the King who was still at table heard this refrain , and the poultry woman came to tell him what had been going on in the yard , he was terribly annoyed .
He ordered them to throw this tail of a drake into the well , to make an end of him .
And it was done as he commanded .
Drakestail was in despair of getting himself out of such a deep hole , when he remembered his lady friend , the Ladder .
` Ladder , Ladder , come out of thy hold , Or Drakestail 's days will soon be told . '
My friend Ladder , who was only waiting for these words , hastens out , leans her two arms on the edge of the well , then Drakestail climbs nimbly on her back , and hop !
he is in the yard , where he begins to sing louder than ever .
When the King , who was still at table and laughing at the good trick he had played his creditor , heard him again reclaiming his money , he became livid with rage .
He commanded that the furnace should be heated , and this tail of a drake thrown into it , because he must be a sorcerer .
The furnace was soon hot , but this time Drakestail was not so afraid ; he counted on his sweetheart , my friend River .
` River , River , outward flow , Or to death Drakestail must go . '
My friend River hastens out , and errouf !
throws herself into the furnace , which she floods , with all the people who had lighted it ; after which she flowed growling into the hall of the palace to the height of more than four feet .
And Drakestail , quite content , begins to swim , singing deafeningly , ` Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? '
The King was still at table , and thought himself quite sure of his game ; but when he heard Drakestail singing again , and when they told him all that had passed , he became furious and got up from table brandishing his fists .
` Bring him here , and I 'll cut his throat !
bring him here quick ! '
cried he .
And quickly two footmen ran to fetch Drakestail .
` At last , ' said the poor chap , going up the great stairs , ` they have decided to receive me . '
Imagine his terror when on entering he sees the King as red as a turkey cock , and all his ministers attending him standing sword in hand .
He thought this time it was all up with him .
Happily , he remembered that there was still one remaining friend , and he cried with dying accents : ` Wasp 's - nest , Wasp 's - nest , make a sally , Or Drakestail nevermore may rally . '
Hereupon the scene changes .
` Bs , bs , bayonet them !
` The brave Wasp 's - nest rushes out with all his wasps .
They threw themselves on the infuriated King and his ministers , and stung them so fiercely in the face that they lost their heads , and not knowing where to hide themselves they all jumped pell-mell from the window and broke their necks on the pavement .
Behold Drakestail much astonished , all alone in the big saloon and master of the field .
He could not get over it .
Nevertheless , he remembered shortly what he had come for to the palace , and improving the occasion , he set to work to hunt for his dear money .
But in vain he rummaged in all the drawers ; he found nothing ; all had been spent .
And ferreting thus from room to room he came at last to the one with the throne in it , and feeling fatigued , he sat himself down on it to think over his adventure .
In the meanwhile the people had found their King and his ministers with their feet in the air on the pavement , and they had gone into the palace to know how it had occurred .
On entering the throne-room , when the crowd saw that there was already someone on the royal seat , they broke out in cries of surprise and joy : ` The King is dead , long live the King !
Heaven has sent us down this thing . '
Drakestail , who was no longer surprised at anything , received the acclamations of the people as if he had never done anything else all his life .
A few of them certainly murmured that a Drakestail would make a fine King ; those who knew him replied that a knowing Drakestail was a more worthy King than a spendthrift like him who was lying on the pavement .
In short , they ran and took the crown off the head of the deceased , and placed it on that of Drakestail , whom it fitted like wax .
Thus he became King .
` And now , ' said he after the ceremony , ` ladies and gentlemen , let 's go to supper .
I am so hungry ! '
-LRB- 15 -RRB- -LRB- 15 -RRB- Contes of Ch .
Marelles .
THE RATCATCHER A VERY long time ago the town of Hamel in Germany was invaded by bands of rats , the like of which had never been seen before nor will ever be again .
They were great black creatures that ran boldly in broad daylight through the streets , and swarmed so , all over the houses , that people at last could not put their hand or foot down anywhere without touching one .
When dressing in the morning they found them in their breeches and petticoats , in their pockets and in their boots ; and when they wanted a morsel to eat , the voracious horde had swept away everything from cellar to garret .
The night was even worse .
As soon as the lights were out , these untiring nibblers set to work .
And everywhere , in the ceilings , in the floors , in the cupboards , at the doors , there was a chase and a rummage , and so furious a noise of gimlets , pincers , and saws , that a deaf man could not have rested for one hour together .
Neither cats nor dogs , nor poison nor traps , nor prayers nor candles burnt to all the saints -- nothing would do anything .
The more they killed the more came .
And the inhabitants of Hamel began to go to the dogs -LRB- not that THEY were of much use -RRB- , when one Friday there arrived in the town a man with a queer face , who played the bagpipes and sang this refrain : ` Qui vivra verra : Le voila , Le preneur des rats . '
He was a great gawky fellow , dry and bronzed , with a crooked nose , a long rat-tail moustache , two great yellow piercing and mocking eyes , under a large felt hat set off by a scarlet cock 's feather .
He was dressed in a green jacket with a leather belt and red breeches , and on his feet were sandals fastened by thongs passed round his legs in the gipsy fashion .
That is how he may be seen to this day , painted on a window of the cathedral of Hamel .
He stopped on the great market-place before the town hall , turned his back on the church and went on with his music , singing : ` Who lives shall see : This is he , The ratcatcher . '
The town council had just assembled to consider once more this plague of Egypt , from which no one could save the town .
The stranger sent word to the counsellors that , if they would make it worth his while , he would rid them of all their rats before night , down to the very last .
` Then he is a sorcerer ! '
cried the citizens with one voice ; ` we must beware of him . '
The Town Counsellor , who was considered clever , reassured them .
He said : ` Sorcerer or no , if this bagpiper speaks the truth , it was he who sent us this horrible vermin that he wants to rid us of to-day for money .
Well , we must learn to catch the devil in his own snares .
You leave it to me . '
` Leave it to the Town Counsellor , ' said the citizens one to another .
And the stranger was brought before them .
` Before night , ' said he , ' I shall have despatched all the rats in Hamel if you will but pay me a gros a head . ' '
A gros a head ! '
cried the citizens , ` but that will come to millions of florins ! '
The Town Counsellor simply shrugged his shoulders and said to the stranger : ' A bargain !
To work ; the rats will be paid one gros a head as you ask . '
The bagpiper announced that he would operate that very evening when the moon rose .
He added that the inhabitants should at that hour leave the streets free , and content themselves with looking out of their windows at what was passing , and that it would be a pleasant spectacle .
When the people of Hamel heard of the bargain , they too exclaimed : ' A gros a head !
but this will cost us a deal of money ! '
` Leave it to the Town Counsellor , ' said the town council with a malicious air .
And the good people of Hamel repeated with their counsellors , ` Leave it to the Town Counsellor . '
Towards nine at night the bagpiper re-appeared on the market place .
He turned , as at first , his back to the church , and the moment the moon rose on the horizon , ` Trarira , trari ! '
the bagpipes resounded .
It was first a slow , caressing sound , then more and more lively and urgent , and so sonorous and piercing that it penetrated as far as the farthest alleys and retreats of the town .
Soon from the bottom of the cellars , the top of the garrets , from under all the furniture , from all the nooks and corners of the houses , out come the rats , search for the door , fling themselves into the street , and trip , trip , trip , begin to run in file towards the front of the town hall , so squeezed together that they covered the pavement like the waves of flooded torrent .
When the square was quite full the bagpiper faced about , and , still playing briskly , turned towards the river that runs at the foot of the walls of Hamel .
Arrived there he turned round ; the rats were following .
` Hop !
hop ! '
he cried , pointing with his finger to the middle of the stream , where the water whirled and was drawn down as if through a funnel .
And hop !
hop !
without hesitating , the rats took the leap , swam straight to the funnel , plunged in head foremost and disappeared .
The plunging continued thus without ceasing till midnight .
At last , dragging himself with difficulty , came a big rat , white with age , and stopped on the bank .
It was the king of the band .
` Are they all there , friend Blanchet ? '
asked the bagpiper .
` They are all there , ' replied friend Blanchet .
` And how many were they ? '
` Nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety-nine . '
` Well reckoned ? '
` Well reckoned . '
` Then go and join them , old sire , and au revoir . '
Then the old white rat sprang in his turn into the river , swam to the whirlpool and disappeared .
When the bagpiper had thus concluded his business he went to bed at his inn .
And for the first time during three months the people of Hamel slept quietly through the night .
The next morning , at nine o'clock , the bagpiper repaired to the town hall , where the town council awaited him .
` All your rats took a jump into the river yesterday , ' said he to the counsellors , ` and I guarantee that not one of them comes back .
They were nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety-nine , at one gros a head .
Reckon ! '
` Let us reckon the heads first .
One gros a head is one head the gros .
Where are the heads ? '
The ratcatcher did not expect this treacherous stroke .
He paled with anger and his eyes flashed fire .
` The heads ! '
cried he , ` if you care about them , go and find them in the river . '
` So , ' replied the Town Counsellor , ` you refuse to hold to the terms of your agreement ?
We ourselves could refuse you all payment .
But you have been of use to us , and we will not let you go without a recompense , ' and he offered him fifty crowns .
` Keep your recompense for yourself , ' replied the ratcatcher proudly .
` If you do not pay me I will be paid by your heirs . '
Thereupon he pulled his hat down over his eyes , went hastily out of the hall , and left the town without speaking to a soul .
When the Hamel people heard how the affair had ended they rubbed their hands , and with no more scruple than their Town Counsellor , they laughed over the ratcatcher , who , they said , was caught in his own trap .
But what made them laugh above all was his threat of getting himself paid by their heirs .
Ha !
they wished that they only had such creditors for the rest of their lives .
Next day , which was a Sunday , they all went gaily to church , thinking that after Mass they would at last be able to eat some good thing that the rats had not tasted before them .
They never suspected the terrible surprise that awaited them on their return home .
No children anywhere , they had all disappeared !
` Our children !
where are our poor children ? '
was the cry that was soon heard in all the streets .
Then through the east door of the town came three little boys , who cried and wept , and this is what they told : While the parents were at church a wonderful music had resounded .
Soon all the little boys and all the little girls that had been left at home had gone out , attracted by the magic sounds , and had rushed to the great market-place .
There they found the ratcatcher playing his bagpipes at the same spot as the evening before .
Then the stranger had begun to walk quickly , and they had followed , running , singing and dancing to the sound of the music , as far as the foot of the mountain which one sees on entering Hamel .
At their approach the mountain had opened a little , and the bagpiper had gone in with them , after which it had closed again .
Only the three little ones who told the adventure had remained outside , as if by a miracle .
One was bandy-legged and could not run fast enough ; the other , who had left the house in haste , one foot shod the other bare , had hurt himself against a big stone and could not walk without difficulty ; the third had arrived in time , but in harrying to go in with the others had struck so violently against the wall of the mountain that he fell backwards at the moment it closed upon his comrades .
At this story the parents redoubled their lamentations .
They ran with pikes and mattocks to the mountain , and searched till evening to find the opening by which their children had disappeared , without being able to find it .
At last , the night falling , they returned desolate to Hamel .
But the most unhappy of all was the Town Counsellor , for he lost three little boys and two pretty little girls , and to crown all , the people of Hamel overwhelmed him with reproaches , forgetting that the evening before they had all agreed with him .
What had become of all these unfortunate children ?
The parents always hoped they were not dead , and that the rat-catcher , who certainly must have come out of the mountain , would have taken them with him to his country .
That is why for several years they sent in search of them to different countries , but no one ever came on the trace of the poor little ones .
It was not till much later that anything was to be heard of them .
About one hundred and fifty years after the event , when there was no longer one left of the fathers , mothers , brothers or sisters of that day , there arrived one evening in Hamel some merchants of Bremen returning from the East , who asked to speak with the citizens .
They told that they , in crossing Hungary , had sojourned in a mountainous country called Transylvania , where the inhabitants only spoke German , while all around them nothing was spoken but Hungarian .
These people also declared that they came from Germany , but they did not know how they chanced to be in this strange country .
` Now , ' said the merchants of Bremen , ` these Germans can not be other than the descendants of the lost children of Hamel . '
The people of Hamel did not doubt it ; and since that day they regard it as certain that the Transylvanians of Hungary are their country folk , whose ancestors , as children , were brought there by the ratcatcher .
There are more difficult things to believe than that .
-LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- 16 -RRB- Ch .
Marelles .
THE TRUE HISTORY OF LITTLE GOLDEN HOOD YOU know the tale of poor Little Red Riding-hood , that the Wolf deceived and devoured , with her cake , her little butter can , and her Grandmother ; well , the true story happened quite differently , as we know now .
And first of all the little girl was called and is still called Little Golden-hood ; secondly , it was not she , nor the good grand-dame , but the wicked Wolf who was , in the end , caught and devoured .
Only listen .
The story begins something like the tale .
There was once a little peasant girl , pretty and nice as a star in its season .
Her real name was Blanchette , but she was more often called Little Golden-hood , on account of a wonderful little cloak with a hood , gold - and fire-coloured , which she always had on .
This little hood was given her by her Grandmother , who was so old that she did not know her age ; it ought to bring her good luck , for it was made of a ray of sunshine , she said .
And as the good old woman was considered something of a witch , everyone thought the little hood rather bewitched too .
And so it was , as you will see .
One day the mother said to the child : ` Let us see , my little Golden-hood , if you know now how to find your way by yourself .
You shall take this good piece of cake to your Grandmother for a Sunday treat to-morrow .
You will ask her how she is , and come back at once , without stopping to chatter on the way with people you do n't know .
Do you quite understand ? ' '
I quite understand , ' replied Blanchette gaily .
And off she went with the cake , quite proud of her errand .
But the Grandmother lived in another village , and there was a big wood to cross before getting there .
At a turn of the road under the trees , suddenly ` Who goes there ? '
` Friend Wolf . '
He had seen the child start alone , and the villain was waiting to devour her ; when at the same moment he perceived some wood-cutters who might observe him , and he changed his mind .
Instead of falling upon Blanchette he came frisking up to her like a good dog . ''
Tis you !
my nice Little Golden-hood , ' said he .
So the little girl stops to talk with the Wolf , who , for all that , she did not know in the least .
` You know me , then ! '
said she ; ` what is your name ? '
` My name is friend Wolf .
And where are you going thus , my pretty one , with your little basket on your arm ? ' '
I am going to my Grandmother , to take her a good piece of cake for her Sunday treat to-morrow . '
` And where does she live , your Grandmother ? '
` She lives at the other side of the wood , in the first house in the village , near the windmill , you know . '
` Ah !
yes !
I know now , ' said the Wolf .
` Well , that 's just where I 'm going ; I shall get there before you , no doubt , with your little bits of legs , and I 'll tell her you 're coming to see her ; then she 'll wait for you . '
Thereupon the Wolf cuts across the wood , and in five minutes arrives at the Grandmother 's house .
He knocks at the door : toc , toc .
No answer .
He knocks louder .
Nobody .
Then he stands up on end , puts his two fore-paws on the latch and the door opens .
Not a soul in the house .
The old woman had risen early to sell herbs in the town , and she had gone off in such haste that she had left her bed unmade , with her great night-cap on the pillow .
` Good ! '
said the Wolf to himself , ' I know what I 'll do . '
He shuts the door , pulls on the Grandmother 's night-cap down to his eyes , then he lies down all his length in the bed and draws the curtains .
In the meantime the good Blanchette went quietly on her way , as little girls do , amusing herself here and there by picking Easter daisies , watching the little birds making their nests , and running after the butterflies which fluttered in the sunshine .
At last she arrives at the door .
Knock , knock .
` Who is there ? '
says the Wolf , softening his rough voice as best he can .
` It 's me , Granny , your little Golden-hood .
I 'm bringing you a big piece of cake for your Sunday treat to-morrow . '
` Press your finger on the latch , then push and the door opens . '
` Why , you 've got a cold , Granny , ' said she , coming in .
` Ahem !
a little , a little ... ' replies the Wolf , pretending to cough .
` Shut the door well , my little lamb .
Put your basket on the table , and then take off your frock and come and lie down by me : you shall rest a little . '
The good child undresses , but observe this !
She kept her little hood upon her head .
When she saw what a figure her Granny cut in bed , the poor little thing was much surprised .
` Oh ! '
cries she , ` how like you are to friend Wolf , Grandmother ! '
` That 's on account of my night-cap , child , ' replies the Wolf .
` Oh !
what hairy arms you 've got , Grandmother ! '
` All the better to hug you , my child . '
` Oh !
what a big tongue you 've got , Grandmother ! '
` All the better for answering , child . '
` Oh !
what a mouthful of great white teeth you have , Grandmother ! '
` That 's for crunching little children with !
` And the Wolf opened his jaws wide to swallow Blanchette .
But she put down her head crying : ` Mamma !
Mamma ! '
and the Wolf only caught her little hood .
Thereupon , oh dear !
oh dear !
he draws back , crying and shaking his jaw as if he had swallowed red-hot coals .
It was the little fire-coloured hood that had burnt his tongue right down his throat .
The little hood , you see , was one of those magic caps that they used to have in former times , in the stories , for making oneself invisible or invulnerable .
So there was the Wolf with his throat burnt , jumping off the bed and trying to find the door , howling and howling as if all the dogs in the country were at his heels .
Just at this moment the Grandmother arrives , returning from the town with her long sack empty on her shoulder .
` Ah , brigand ! '
she cries , ` wait a bit ! '
Quickly she opens her sack wide across the door , and the maddened Wolf springs in head downwards .
It is he now that is caught , swallowed like a letter in the post .
For the brave old dame shuts her sack , so ; and she runs and empties it in the well , where the vagabond , still howling , tumbles in and is drowned .
` Ah , scoundrel !
you thought you would crunch my little grandchild !
Well , to-morrow we will make her a muff of your skin , and you yourself shall be crunched , for we will give your carcass to the dogs . '
Thereupon the Grandmother hastened to dress poor Blanchette , who was still trembling with fear in the bed .
` Well , ' she said to her , ` without my little hood where would you be now , darling ? '
And , to restore heart and legs to the child , she made her eat a good piece of her cake , and drink a good draught of wine , after which she took her by the hand and led her back to the house .
And then , who was it who scolded her when she knew all that had happened ?
It was the mother .
But Blanchette promised over and over again that she would never more stop to listen to a Wolf , so that at last the mother forgave her .
And Blanchette , the Little Golden-hood , kept her word .
And in fine weather she may still be seen in the fields with her pretty little hood , the colour of the sun .
But to see her you must rise early .
-LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- Ch .
Marelles THE GOLDEN BRANCH ONCE upon a time there was a King who was so morose and disagreeable that he was feared by all his subjects , and with good reason , as for the most trifling offences he would have their heads cut off .
This King Grumpy , as he was called , had one son , who was as different from his father as he could possibly be .
No prince equalled him in cleverness and kindness of heart , but unfortunately he was most terribly ugly .
He had crooked legs and squinting eyes , a large mouth all on one side , and a hunchback .
Never was there a beautiful soul in such a frightful little body , but in spite of his appearance everybody loved him .
The Queen , his mother , called him Curlicue , because it was a name she rather liked , and it seemed to suit him .
King Grumpy , who cared a great deal more for his own grandeur than for his son 's happiness , wished to betroth the Prince to the daughter of a neighbouring King , whose great estates joined his own , for he thought that this alliance would make him more powerful than ever , and as for the Princess she would do very well for Prince Curlicue , for she was as ugly as himself .
Indeed , though she was the most amiable creature in the world , there was no concealing the fact that she was frightful , and so lame that she always went about with a crutch , and people called her Princess Cabbage-Stalk .
The King , having asked for and received a portrait of this Princess , had it placed in his great hall under a canopy , and sent for Prince Curlicue , to whom he said that as this was the portrait of his future bride , he hoped the Prince found it charming .
The Prince after one glance at it turned away with a disdainful air , which greatly offended his father .
` Am I to understand that you are not pleased ? '
he said very sharply .
` No , sire , ' replied the Prince .
` How could I be pleased to marry an ugly , lame Princess ? '
` Certainly it is becoming in YOU to object to that , ' said King Grumpy , ` since you are ugly enough to frighten anyone yourself . '
` That is the very reason , ' said the Prince , ` that I wish to marry someone who is not ugly .
I am quite tired enough of seeing myself . ' '
I tell you that you shall marry her , ' cried King Grumpy angrily .
And the Prince , seeing that it was of no use to remonstrate , bowed and retired .
As King Grumpy was not used to being contradicted in anything , he was very much displeased with his son , and ordered that he should be imprisoned in the tower that was kept on purpose for rebellious Princes , but had not been used for about two hundred years , because there had not been any .
The Prince thought all the rooms looked strangely old-fashioned , with their antique furniture , but as there was a good library he was pleased , for he was very fond of reading , and he soon got permission to have as many books as he liked .
But when he looked at them he found that they were written in a forgotten language , and he could not understand a single word , though he amused himself with trying .
King Grumpy was so convinced that Prince Curlicue would soon get tired of being in prison , and so consent to marry the Princess Cabbage-Stalk , that he sent ambassadors to her father proposing that she should come and be married to his son , who would make her perfectly happy .
The King was delighted to receive so good an offer for his unlucky daughter , though , to tell the truth , he found it impossible to admire the Prince 's portrait which had been sent to him .
However , he had it placed in as favourable a light as possible , and sent for the Princess , but the moment she caught sight of it she looked the other way and began to cry .
The King , who was very much annoyed to see how greatly she disliked it , took a mirror , and holding it up before the unhappy Princess , said : ' I see you do not think the Prince handsome , but look at yourself , and see if you have any right to complain about that . '
` Sire , ' she answered , ' I do not wish to complain , only I beg of you do not make me marry at all .
I had rather be the unhappy Princess Cabbage-Stalk all my life than inflict the sight of my ugliness on anyone else . '
But the King would not listen to her , and sent her away with the ambassadors .
In the meantime the Prince was kept safely locked up in his tower , and , that he might be as dull as possible , King Grumpy ordered that no one should speak to him , and that they should give him next to nothing to eat .
But all the Princess guards were so fond of him that they did everything they dared , in spite of the King , to make the time pass pleasantly .
One day , as the Prince was walking up and down the great gallery , thinking how miserable it was to be so ugly , and to be forced to marry an equally frightful Princess , he looked up suddenly and noticed that the painted windows were particularly bright and beautiful , and for the sake of doing something that would change his sad thoughts he began to examine them attentively .
He found that the pictures seemed to be scenes from the life of a man who appeared in every window , and the Prince , fancying that he saw in this man some resemblance to himself , began to be deeply interested .
In the first window there was a picture of him in one of the turrets of the tower , farther on he was seeking something in a chink in the wall , in the next picture he was opening an old cabinet with a golden key , and so it went on through numbers of scenes , and presently the Prince noticed that another figure occupied the most important place in each scene , and this time it was a tall handsome young man : poor Prince Curlicue found it a pleasure to look at him , he was so straight and strong .
By this time it had grown dark , and the Prince had to go back to his own room , and to amuse himself he took up a quaint old book and began to look at the pictures .
But his surprise was great to find that they represented the same scenes as the windows of the gallery , and what was more , that they seemed to be alive .
In looking at pictures of musicians he saw their hands move and heard sweet sounds ; there was a picture of a ball , and the Prince could watch the little dancing people come and go .
He turned a page , and there was an excellent smell of a savoury dinner , and one of the figures who sat at the feast looked at him and said : ` We drink your health , Curlicue .
Try to give us our Queen again , for if you do you will be rewarded ; if not , it will be the worse for you . '
At these words the Prince , who had been growing more and more astonished , was fairly terrified , and dropping the book with a crash he sank back insensible .
The noise he made brought his guards to his aid , and as soon as he revived they asked him what was the matter .
He answered that he was so faint and giddy with hunger that he had imagined he saw and heard all sorts of strange things .
Thereupon , in spite of the King 's orders , the guards gave him an excellent supper , and when he had eaten it he again opened his book , but could see none of the wonderful pictures , which convinced him that he must have been dreaming before .
However , when he went into he gallery next day and looked at the painted windows again , he found that they moved , and the figures came and went as if they had been alive , and after watching the one who was like himself find the key in the crack of the turret wall and open the old cabinet , he determined to go and examine the place himself , and try to find out what the mystery was .
So he went up into the turret and began to search about and tap upon the walls , and all at once he came upon a place that sounded hollow .
Taking a hammer he broke away a bit of the stone , and found behind it a little golden key .
The next thing to do was to find the cabinet , and the Prince soon came to it , hidden away in a dark corner , though indeed it was so old and battered-looking that he would never have noticed it of his own accord .
At first he could not see any keyhole , but after a careful search he found one hidden in the carving , and the golden key just fitted it ; so the Prince gave it a vigorous turn and the doors flew open .
Ugly and old as the cabinet was outside , nothing could have been more rich and beautiful than what met the Prince 's astonished eyes .
Every drawer was made of crystal , of amber , or of some precious stone , and was quite full of every kind of treasure .
Prince Curlicue was delighted ; he opened one after another , until at last he came to one tiny drawer which contained only an emerald key . '
I believe that this must open that little golden door in the middle , ' said the Prince to himself .
And he fitted in the little key and turned it .
The tiny door swung back , and a soft crimson light gleamed over the whole cabinet .
The Prince found that it proceeded from an immense glowing carbuncle , made into a box , which lay before him .
He lost no time in opening it , but what was his horror when he found that it contained a man 's hand , which was holding a portrait .
His first thought was to put back the terrible box and fly from the turret ; but a voice in his ear said , ` This hand belonged to one whom you can help and restore .
Look at this beautiful portrait , the original of which was the cause of all my misfortunes , and if you wish to help me , go without a moment 's delay to the great gallery , notice where the sun 's rays fall most brightly , and if you seek there you will find my treasure . '
The voice ceased , and though the Prince in his bewilderment asked various questions , he received no answer .
So he put back the box and locked the cabinet up again , and , having replaced the key in the crack in the wall , hastened down to the gallery .
When he entered it all the windows shook and clattered in the strangest way , but the Prince did not heed them ; he was looking so carefully for the place where the sun shone most brightly , and it seemed to him that it was upon the portrait of a most splendidly handsome young man .
He went up and examined it , and found that it rested against the ebony and gold panelling , just like any of the other pictures in the gallery .
He was puzzled , not knowing what to do next , until it occurred to him to see if the windows would help him , and , looking at the nearest , he saw a picture of himself lifting the picture from the wall .
The Prince took the hint , and lifting aside the picture without difficulty , found himself in a marble hall adorned with statues ; from this he passed on through numbers of splendid rooms , until at last he reached one all hung with blue gauze .
The walls were of turquoises , and upon a low couch lay a lovely lady , who seemed to be asleep .
Her hair , black as ebony , was spread across the pillows , making her face look ivory white , and the Prince noticed that she was unquiet ; and when he softly advanced , fearing to wake her , he could hear her sigh , and murmur to herself : ` Ah !
how dared you think to win my love by separating me from my beloved Florimond , and in my presence cutting off that dear hand that even you should have feared and honoured ? '
And then the tears rolled slowly down the lovely lady 's cheeks , and Prince Curlicue began to comprehend that she was under an enchantment , and that it was the hand of her lover that he had found .
At this moment a huge Eagle flew into the room , holding in its talons a Golden Branch , upon which were growing what looked like clusters of cherries , only every cherry was a single glowing ruby .
This he presented to the Prince , who guessed by this time that he was in some way to break the enchantment that surrounded the sleeping lady .
Taking the branch he touched her lightly with it , saying : ` Fair one , I know not by what enchantment thou art bound , but in the name of thy beloved Florimond I conjure thee to come back to the life which thou hast lost , but not forgotten . '
Instantly the lady opened her lustrous eyes , and saw the Eagle hovering near .
` Ah !
stay , dear love , stay , ' she cried .
But the Eagle , uttering a dolorous cry , fluttered his broad wings and disappeared .
Then the lady turned to Prince Curlicue , and said : ' I know that it is to you I owe my deliverance from an enchantment which has held me for two hundred years .
If there is anything that I can do for you in return , you have only to tell me , and all my fairy power shall be used to make you happy . '
` Madam , ' said Prince Curlicue , ' I wish to be allowed to restore your beloved Florimond to his natural form , since I can not forget the tears you shed for him . '
` That is very amiable of you , dear Prince , ' said the Fairy , ` but it is reserved for another person to do that .
I can not explain more at present .
But is there nothing you wish for yourself ? '
` Madam , ' cried the Prince , flinging himself down at her feet , ` only look at my ugliness .
I am called Curlicue , and am an object of derision ; I entreat you to make me less ridiculous . '
` Rise , Prince , ' said the Fairy , touching him with the Golden Branch .
` Be as accomplished as you are handsome , and take the name of Prince Peerless , since that is the only title which will suit you now . '
Silent from joy , the Prince kissed her hand to express his thanks , and when he rose and saw his new reflection in the mirrors which surrounded him , he understood that Curlicue was indeed gone for ever .
` How I wish , ' said the Fairy , ` that I dared to tell you what is in store for you , and warn you of the traps which lie in your path , but I must not .
Fly from the tower , Prince , and remember that the Fairy Douceline will be your friend always . '
When she had finished speaking , the Prince , to his great astonishment , found himself no longer in the tower , but set down in a thick forest at least a hundred leagues away from it .
And there we must leave him for the present , and see what was happening elsewhere .
When the guards found that the Prince did not ask for his supper as usual , they went into his room , and not finding him there , were very much alarmed , and searched the tower from turret to dungeon , but without success .
Knowing that the King would certainly have their heads cut off for allowing the Prince to escape , they then agreed to say that he was ill , and after making the smallest among them look as much like Prince Curlicue as possible , they put him into his bed and sent to inform the King .
King Grumpy was quite delighted to hear that his son was ill , for he thought that he would all the sooner be brought to do as he wished , and marry the Princess .
So he sent back to the guards to say that the Prince was to be treated as severely as before , which was just what they had hoped he would say .
In the meantime the Princess Cabbage-Stalk had reached the palace , travelling in a litter .
King Grumpy went out to meet her , but when he saw her , with a skin like a tortoise 's , her thick eyebrows meeting above her large nose , and her mouth from ear to ear , he could not help crying out : ` Well , I must say Curlicue is ugly enough , but I do n't think YOU need have thought twice before consenting to marry him . '
` Sire , ' she replied , ' I know too well what I am like to be hurt by what you say , but I assure you that I have no wish to marry your son I had rather be called Princess Cabbage-Stalk than Queen Curlicue . '
This made King Grumpy very angry .
` Your father has sent you here to marry my son , ' he said , ` and you may be sure that I am not going to offend him by altering his arrangements . '
So the poor Princess was sent away in disgrace to her own apartments , and the ladies who attended upon her were charged to bring her to a better mind .
At this juncture the guards , who were in great fear that they would be found out , sent to tell the King that his son was dead , which annoyed him very much .
He at once made up his mind that it was entirely the Princess 's fault , and gave orders that she should be imprisoned in the tower in Prince Curlicue 's place .
The Princess Cabbage-Stalk was immensely astonished at this unjust proceeding , and sent many messages of remonstrance to King Grumpy , but he was in such a temper that no one dared to deliver them , or to send the letters which the Princess wrote to her father .
However , as she did not know this , she lived in hope of soon going back to her own country , and tried to amuse herself as well as she could until the time should come .
Every day she walked up and down the long gallery , until she too was attracted and fascinated by the ever-changing pictures in the windows , and recognised herself in one of the figures .
` They seem to have taken a great delight in painting me since I came to this country , ' she said to herself .
` One would think that I and my crutch were put in on purpose to make that slim , charming young shepherdess in the next picture look prettier by contrast .
Ah !
how nice it would be to be as pretty as that . '
And then she looked at herself in a mirror , and turned away quickly with tears in her eyes from the doleful sight .
All at once she became aware that she was not alone , for behind her stood a tiny old woman in a cap , who was as ugly again as herself and quite as lame .
` Princess , ' she said , ` your regrets are so piteous that I have come to offer you the choice of goodness or beauty .
If you wish to be pretty you shall have your way , but you will also be vain , capricious , and frivolous .
If you remain as you are now , you shall be wise and amiable and modest . '
` Alas I madam , ' cried the Princess , ` is it impossible to be at once wise and beautiful ? '
` No , child , ' answered the old woman , ` only to you it is decreed that you must choose between the two .
See , I have brought with me my white and yellow muff .
Breathe upon the yellow side and you will become like the pretty shepherdess you so much admire , and you will have won the love of the handsome shepherd whose picture I have already seen you studying with interest .
Breathe upon the white side and your looks will not alter , but you will grow better and happier day by day .
Now you may choose . '
` Ah well , ' said the Princess , ' I suppose one ca n't have everything , and it 's certainly better to be good than pretty . '
And so she breathed upon the white side of the muff and thanked the old fairy , who immediately disappeared .
The Princess Cabbage-Stalk felt very forlorn when she was gone , and began to think that it was quite time her father sent an army to rescue her .
` If I could but get up into the turret , ' she thought , ` to see if any one is coming . '
But to climb up there seemed impossible .
Nevertheless she presently hit upon a plan .
The great clock was in the turret , as she knew , though the weights hung down into the gallery .
Taking one of them off the rope , she tied herself on in its place , and when the clock was wound , up she went triumphantly into the turret .
She looked out over the country the first thing , but seeing nothing she sat down to rest a little , and accidentally leant back against the wall which Curlicue , or rather Prince Peerless , had so hastily mended .
Out fell the broken stone , and with it the golden key .
The clatter it made upon the floor attracted the Princess Cabbage-Stalk 's attention .
She picked it up , and after a moment 's consideration decided that it must belong to the curious old cabinet in the corner , which had no visible keyhole .
And then it was not long before she had it open , and was admiring the treasures it contained as much as Prince Peerless had done before her , and at last she came to the carbuncle box .
No sooner had she opened it than with a shudder of horror she tried to throw it down , but found that some mysterious power compelled her to hold it against her will .
And at this moment a voice in her ear said softly : ` Take courage , Princess ; upon this adventure your future happiness depends . '
` What am I to do ? '
said the Princess trembling .
` Take the box , ' replied the voice , ` and hide it under your pillow , and when you see an Eagle , give it to him without losing a moment . '
Terrified as the Princess was , she did not hesitate to obey , and hastened to put back all the other precious things precisely as she had found them .
By this time her guards were seeking her everywhere , and they were amazed to find her up in the turret , for they said she could only have got there by magic .
For three days nothing happened , but at last in the night the Princess heard something flutter against her window , and drawing back her curtains she saw in the moonlight that it was an Eagle .
Limping across at her utmost speed she threw the window open , and the great Eagle sailed in beating with his wings for joy .
The Princess lost no time in offering it the carbuncle box , which it grasped in its talons , and instantly disappeared , leaving in its place the most beautiful Prince she had ever seen , who was splendidly dressed , and wore a diamond crown .
` Princess , ' said he , ` for two hundred years has a wicked enchanter kept me here .
We both loved the same Fairy , but she preferred me .
However , he was more powerful than I , and succeeded , when for a moment I was off my guard , in changing me into an Eagle , while my Queen was left in an enchanted sleep .
I knew that after two hundred years a Prince would recall her to the light of day , and a Princess , in restoring to me the hand which my enemy had cut off , would give me back my natural form .
The Fairy who watches over your destiny told me this , and it was she who guided you to the cabinet in the turret , where she had placed my hand .
It is she also who permits me to show my gratitude to you by granting whatever favour you may ask of me .
Tell me , Princess , what is it that you wish for most ?
Shall I make you as beautiful as you deserve to be ? '
` Ah , if you only would ! '
cried the Princess , and at the same moment she heard a crick-cracking in all her bones .
She grew tall and straight and pretty , with eyes like shining stars , and a skin as white as milk .
` Oh , wonderful !
can this really be my poor little self ? '
she exclaimed , looking down in amazement at her tiny worn-out crutch as it lay upon the floor .
` Indeed , Princess , ' replied Florimond , ` it is yourself , but you must have a new name , since the old one does not suit you now .
Be called Princess Sunbeam , for you are bright and charming enough to deserve the name . '
And so saying he disappeared , and the Princess , without knowing how she got there , found herself walking under shady trees by a clear river .
Of course , the first thing she did was to look at her own reflection in the water , and she was extremely surprised to find that she was exactly like the shepherdess she had so much admired , and wore the same white dress and flowery wreath that she had seen in the painted windows .
To complete the resemblance , her flock of sheep appeared , grazing round her , and she found a gay crook adorned with flowers upon the bank of the river .
Quite tired out by so many new and wonderful experiences , the Princess sat down to rest at the foot of a tree , and there she fell fast asleep .
Now it happened that it was in this very country that Prince Peerless had been set down , and while the Princess Sunbeam was still sleeping peacefully , he came strolling along in search of a shady pasture for his sheep .
The moment he caught sight of the Princess he recognised her as the charming shepherdess whose picture he had seen so often in the tower , and as she was far prettier than he had remembered her , he was delighted that chance had led him that way .
He was still watching her admiringly when the Princess opened her eyes , and as she also recognised him they were soon great friends .
The Princess asked Prince Peerless , as he knew the country better than she did , to tell her of some peasant who would give her a lodging , and he said he knew of an old woman whose cottage would be the very place for her , it was so nice and so pretty .
So they went there together , and the Princess was charmed with the old woman and everything belonging to her .
Supper was soon spread for her under a shady tree , and she invited the Prince to share the cream and brown bread which the old woman provided .
This he was delighted to do , and having first fetched from his own garden all the strawberries , cherries , nuts and flowers he could find .
they sat down together and were very merry .
After this they met every day as they guarded their flocks , and were so happy that Prince Peerless begged the Princess to marry him , so that they might never be parted again .
Now though the Princess Sunbeam appeared to be only a poor shepherdess , she never forgot that she was a real Princess , and she was not at all sure that she ought to marry a humble shepherd , though she knew she would like to do so very much .
So she resolved to consult an Enchanter of whom she had heard a great deal since she had been a shepherdess , and without saying a word to anybody she set out to find the castle in which he lived with his sister , who was a powerful Fairy .
The way was long , and lay through a thick wood , where the Princess heard strange voices calling to her from every side , but she was in such a hurry that she stopped for nothing , and at last she came to the courtyard of the Enchanter 's castle .
The grass and briers were growing as high as if it were a hundred years since anyone had set foot there , but the Princess got through at last , though she gave herself a good many scratches by the way , and then she went into a dark , gloomy hall , where there was but one tiny hole in the wall through which the daylight could enter .
The hangings were all of bats ' wings , and from the ceiling hung twelve cats , who filled the hall with their ear piercing yells .
Upon the long table twelve mice were fastened by the tail , and just in front of each one 's nose , but quite beyond its reach , lay a tempting morsel of fat bacon .
So the cats could always see the mice , but could not touch them , and the hungry mice were tormented by the sight and smell of the delicious morsels which they could never seize .
The Princess was looking at the poor creatures in dismay , when the Enchanter suddenly entered , wearing a long black robe and with a crocodile upon his head .
In his hand he carried a whip made of twenty long snakes , all alive and writhing , and the Princess was so terrified at the sight that she heartily wished she had never come .
Without saying a word she ran to the door , but it was covered with a thick spider 's web , and when she broke it she found another , and another , and another .
In fact , there was no end to them ; the Princess 's arms ached with tearing them down , and yet she was no nearer to getting out , and the wicked Enchanter behind her laughed maliciously .
At last he said : ` You might spend the rest of your life over that without doing any good , but as you are young , and quite the prettiest creature I have seen for a long time , I will marry you if you like , and I will give you those cats and mice that you see there for your own .
They are princes and princesses who have happened to offend me .
They used to love one another as much as they now hate one another .
Aha !
It 's a pretty little revenge to keep them like that . '
` Oh !
If you would only change me into a mouse too , ' cried the Princess .
` Oh !
so you wo n't marry me ? '
said he .
` Little simpleton , you should have everything heart can desire . '
` No , indeed ; nothing should make me marry you ; in fact , I do n't think I shall ever love anyone , ' cried the Princess .
` In that case , ' said the Enchanter , touching her , ` you had better become a particular kind of creature that is neither fish nor fowl ; you shall be light and airy , and as green as the grass you live in .
Off with you , Madam Grasshopper . '
And the Princess , rejoicing to find herself free once more , skipped out into the garden , the prettiest little green Grasshopper in the world .
But as soon as she was safely out she began to be rather sorry for herself .
` Ah !
Florimond , ' she sighed , ` is this the end of your gift ?
Certainly beauty is short-lived , and this funny little face and a green crape dress are a comical end to it .
I had better have married my amiable shepherd .
It must be for my pride that I am condemned to be a Grasshopper , and sing day and night in the grass by this brook , when I feel far more inclined to cry . '
In the meantime Prince Peerless had discovered the Princess 's absence , and was lamenting over it by the river 's brim , when he suddenly became aware of the presence of a little old woman .
She was quaintly dressed in a ruff and farthingale , and a velvet hood covered her snow-white hair .
` You seem sorrowful , my son , ' she said .
` What is the matter ? '
` Alas !
mother , ' answered the Prince , ' I have lost my sweet shepherdess , but I am determined to find her again , though I should have to traverse the whole world in search of her . '
` Go that way , my son , ' said the old woman , pointing towards the path that led to the castle . '
I have an idea that you will soon overtake her . '
The Prince thanked her heartily and set out .
As he met with no hindrance , he soon reached the enchanted wood which surrounded the castle , and there he thought he saw the Princess Sunbeam gliding before him among the trees .
Prince Peerless hastened after her at the top of his speed , but could not get any nearer ; then he called to her : ` Sunbeam , my darling -- only wait for me a moment . '
But the phantom did but fly the faster , and the Prince spent the whole day in this vain pursuit .
When night came he saw the castle before him all lighted up , and as he imagined that the Princess must be in it , he made haste to get there too .
He entered without difficulty , and in the hall the terrible old Fairy met him .
She was so thin that the light shone through her , and her eyes glowed like lamps ; her skin was like a shark 's , her arms were thin as laths , and her fingers like spindles .
Nevertheless she wore rouge and patches , a mantle of silver brocade and a crown of diamonds , and her dress was covered with jewels , and green and pink ribbons .
` At last you have come to see me , Prince , ' said she .
` Do n't waste another thought upon that little shepherdess , who is unworthy of your notice .
I am the Queen of the Comets , and can bring you to great honour if you will marry me . '
` Marry you , Madam , ' cried the Prince , in horror .
` No , I will never consent to that . '
Thereupon the Fairy , in a rage , gave two strokes of her wand and filled the gallery with horrible goblins , against whom the Prince had to fight for his life .
Though he had only his dagger , he defended himself so well that he escaped without any harm , and presently the old Fairy stopped the fray and asked the Prince if he was still of the same mind .
When he answered firmly that he was , she called up the appearance of the Princess Sunbeam to the other end of the gallery , and said : ` You see your beloved there ?
Take care what you are about , for if you again refuse to marry me she shall be torn in pieces by two tigers . '
The Prince was distracted , for he fancied he heard his dear shepherdess weeping and begging him to save her .
In despair he cried : ` Oh , Fairy Douceline , have you abandoned me after so many promises of friendship ?
Help , help us now ! '
Immediately a soft voice said in his ear : ` Be firm , happen what may , and seek the Golden Branch . '
Thus encouraged , the Prince persevered in his refusal , and at length the old Fairy in a fury cried : ` Get out of my sight , obstinate Prince .
Become a Cricket ! '
And instantly the handsome Prince Peerless became a poor little black Cricket , whose only idea would have been to find himself a cosy cranny behind some blazing hearth , if he had not luckily remembered the Fairy Douceline 's injunction to seek the Golden Branch .
So he hastened to depart from the fatal castle , and sought shelter in a hollow tree , where he found a forlorn looking little Grasshopper crouching in a corner , too miserable to sing .
Without in the least expecting an answer , the Prince asked it : ` And where may you be going , Gammer Grasshopper ? '
` Where are you going yourself , Gaffer Cricket ? '
replied the Grasshopper .
` What !
can you speak ? '
said he .
` Why should I not speak as well as you ?
Is n't a Grasshopper as good as a Cricket ? '
said she . '
I can talk because I was a Prince , ' said the Cricket .
` And for that very same reason I ought to be able to talk more than you , for I was a Princess , ' replied the Grasshopper .
` Then you have met with the same fate as I have , ' said he .
` But where are you going now ?
Can not we journey together ? ' '
I seemed to hear a voice in the air which said : `` Be firm , happen what may , and seek the Golden Branch , '' ' answered the Grasshopper , ` and I thought the command must be for me , so I started at once , though I do n't know the way . '
At this moment their conversation was interrupted by two mice , who , breathless from running , flung themselves headlong through the hole into the tree , nearly crushing the Grasshopper and the Cricket , though they got out of the way as fast as they could and stood up in a dark corner .
` Ah , Madam , ' said the fatter of the two , ' I have such a pain in my side from running so fast .
How does your Highness find yourself ? ' '
I have pulled my tail off , ' replied the younger Mouse , ` but as I should still be on the sorcerer 's table unless I had , I do not regret it .
Are we pursued , think you ?
How lucky we were to escape ! ' '
I only trust that we may escape cats and traps , and reach the Golden Branch soon , ' said the fat Mouse .
` You know the way then ? '
said the other .
` Oh dear , yes !
as well as the way to my own house , Madam .
This Golden Branch is indeed a marvel , a single leaf from it makes one rich for ever .
It breaks enchantments , and makes all who approach it young and beautiful .
We must set out for it at the break of day . '
` May we have the honour of travelling with you -- this respectable Cricket and myself ? '
said the Grasshopper , stepping forward .
` We also are on a pilgrimage to the Golden Branch . '
The Mice courteously assented , and after many polite speeches the whole party fell asleep .
With the earliest dawn they were on their way , and though the Mice were in constant fear of being overtaken or trapped , they reached the Golden Branch in safety .
It grew in the midst of a wonderful garden , all the paths of which were strewn with pearls as big as peas .
The roses were crimson diamonds , with emerald leaves .
The pomegranates were garnets , the marigolds topazes , the daffodils yellow diamonds , the violets sapphires , the corn-flowers turquoises , the tulips amethysts , opals and diamonds , so that the garden borders blazed like the sun .
The Golden Branch itself had become as tall as a forest tree , and sparkled with ruby cherries to its topmost twig .
No sooner had the Grasshopper and the Cricket touched it than they were restored to their natural forms , and their surprise and joy were great when they recognised each other .
At this moment Florimond and the Fairy Douceline appeared in great splendour , and the Fairy , as she descended from her chariot , said with a smile : ` So you two have found one another again , I see , but I have still a surprise left for you .
Do n't hesitate , Princess , to tell your devoted shepherd how dearly you love him , as he is the very Prince your father sent you to marry .
So come here both of you and let me crown you , and we will have the wedding at once . '
The Prince and Princess thanked her with all their hearts , and declared that to her they owed all their happiness , and then the two Princesses , who had so lately been Mice , came and begged that the Fairy would use her power to release their unhappy friends who were still under the Enchanter 's spell .
` Really , ' said the Fairy Douceline , ` on this happy occasion I can not find it in my heart to refuse you anything . '
And she gave three strokes of her wand upon the Golden Branch , and immediately all the prisoners in the Enchanter 's castle found themselves free , and came with all speed to the wonderful garden , where one touch of the Golden Branch restored each one to his natural form , and they greeted one another with many rejoicings .
To complete her generous work the Fairy presented them with the wonderful cabinet and all the treasures it contained , which were worth at least ten kingdoms .
But to Prince Peerless and the Princess Sunbeam she gave the palace and garden of the Golden Branch , where , immensely rich and greatly beloved by all their subjects , they lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 18 -RRB- -LRB- 18 -RRB- Le Rameau d'Or .
Par Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE THREE DWARFS THERE was once upon a time a man who lost his wife , and a woman who lost her husband ; and the man had a daughter and so had the woman .
The two girls were great friends and used often to play together .
One day the woman turned to the man 's daughter and said : ` Go and tell your father that I will marry him , and then you shall wash in milk and drink wine , but my own daughter shall wash in water and drink it too . '
The girl went straight home and told her father what the woman had said .
` What am I to do ? '
he answered .
` Marriage is either a success or it is a failure . '
At last , being of an undecided character and not being able to make up his mind , he took off his boot , and handing it to his daughter , said : ` Take this boot which has a hole in the sole , hang it up on a nail in the hayloft , and pour water into it .
If it holds water I will marry again , but if it does n't I wo n't . '
The girl did as she was bid , but the water drew the hole together and the boot filled up to the very top .
So she went and told her father the result .
He got up and went to see for himself , and when he saw that it was true and no mistake , he accepted his fate , proposed to the widow , and they were married at once .
On the morning after the wedding , when the two girls awoke , milk was standing for the man 's daughter to wash in and wine for her to drink ; but for the woman 's daughter , only water to wash in and only water to drink .
On the second morning , water to wash in and water to drink was standing for the man 's daughter as well .
And on the third morning , water to wash in and water to drink was standing for the man 's daughter , and milk to wash in and wine to drink for the woman 's daughter ; and so it continued ever after .
The woman hated her stepdaughter from the bottom of her heart , and did all she could to make her life miserable .
She was as jealous as she could possibly be , because the girl was so beautiful and charming , while her own daughter was both ugly and repulsive .
One winter 's day when there was a hard frost , and mountain and valley were covered with snow , the woman made a dress of paper , and calling the girl to her said : ` There , put on this dress and go out into the wood and fetch me a basket of strawberries ! '
` Now Heaven help us , ' replied her stepdaughter ; ` strawberries do n't grow in winter ; the earth is all frozen and the snow has covered up everything ; and why send me in a paper dress ?
it is so cold outside that one 's very breath freezes ; the wind will whistle through my dress , and the brambles tear it from my body . '
` How dare you contradict me ! '
said her stepmother ; ` be off with you at once , and do n't show your face again till you have filled the basket with strawberries . '
Then she gave her a hard crust of bread , saying : ` That will be enough for you to-day , ' and she thought to herself : ` The girl will certainly perish of hunger and cold outside , and I sha n't be bothered with her any more . '
The girl was so obedient that she put on the paper dress and set out with her little basket .
There was nothing but snow far and near , and not a green blade of grass to be seen anywhere .
When she came to the wood she saw a little house , and out of it peeped three little dwarfs .
She wished them good-day , and knocked modestly at the door .
They called out to her to enter , so she stepped in and sat down on a seat by the fire , wishing to warm herself and eat her breakfast .
The Dwarfs said at once : ` Give us some of your food ! '
` Gladly , ' she said , and breaking her crust in two , she gave them the half .
Then they asked her what she was doing in the depths of winter in her thin dress .
` Oh , ' she answered , ' I have been sent to get a basketful of strawberries , and I dare n't show my face again at home till I bring them with me . '
When she had finished her bread they gave her a broom and told her to sweep away the snow from the back door .
As soon as she left the room to do so , the three little men consulted what they should give her as a reward for being so sweet and good , and for sharing her last crust with them .
The first said : ` Every day she shall grow prettier . '
The second : ` Every time she opens her mouth a piece of gold shall fall out . '
And the third : ' A King shall come and marry her . '
The girl in the meantime was doing as the Dwarfs had bidden her , and was sweeping the snow away from the back door , and what do you think she found there ?
-- heaps of fine ripe strawberries that showed out dark red against the white snow .
She joyfully picked enough to fill her basket , thanked the little men for their kindness , shook hands with them , and ran home to bring her stepmother what she had asked for .
When she walked in and said ; Good evening , ' a piece of gold fell out of her mouth .
Then she told what had hap-pened to her in the wood , and at every word pieces of gold dropped from her mouth , so that the room was soon covered with them .
` She 's surely more money than wit to throw gold about like that , ' said her stepsister , but in her secret heart she was very jealous , and determined that she too would go to the wood and look for strawberries .
But her mother refused to let her go , saying : ` My dear child , it is far too cold ; you might freeze to death . '
The girl however left her no peace , so she was forced at last to give in , but she insisted on her putting on a beautiful fur cloak , and she gave her bread and butter and cakes to eat on the way .
The girl went straight to the little house in the wood , and as before the three little men were looking out of the window .
She took no notice of them , and without as much as ` By your leave , ' or ` With your leave , ' she flounced into the room , sat herself down at the fire , and began to eat her bread and butter and cakes .
` Give us some , ' cried the Dwarfs .
But she answered : ` No , I wo n't , it 's hardly enough for myself ; so catch me giving you any . '
When she had finished eating they said : ` There 's a broom for you , go and clear up our back door . '
` I 'll see myself further , ' she answered rudely .
` Do it yourselves ; I 'm not your servant . '
When she saw that they did not mean to give her anything , she left the house in no amiable frame of mind .
Then the three little men consulted what they should do to her , because she was so bad and had such an evil , covetous heart , that she grudged everybody their good fortune .
The first said : ` She shall grow uglier every day . '
The second : ` Every time she speaks a toad shall jump out of her mouth . '
And the third : ` She shall die a most miserable death . '
The girl searched for strawberries , but she found none , and returned home in a very bad temper .
When she opened her mouth to tell her mother what had befallen her in the wood , a toad jumped out , so that everyone was quite disgusted with her .
Then the stepmother was more furious than ever , and did nothing but plot mischief against the man 's daughter , who was daily growing more and more beautiful .
At last , one day the wicked woman took a large pot , put it on the fire and boiled some yarn in it .
When it was well scalded she hung it round the poor girl 's shoulder , and giving her an axe , she bade her break a hole in the frozen river , and rinse the yarn in it .
Her stepdaughter obeyed as usual , and went and broke a hole in the ice .
When she was in the act of wringing out the yarn a magnificent carriage passed , and the King sat inside .
The carriage stood still , and the King asked her : ` My child , who are you , and what in the wide world are you doing here ? ' '
I am only a poor girl , ' she answered , ` and am rinsing out my yarn in the river . '
Then the King was sorry for her , and when he saw how beautiful she was he said : ` Will you come away with me ? '
` Most gladly , ' she replied , for she knew how willingly she would leave her stepmother and sister , and how glad they would be to be rid of her .
So she stepped into the carriage and drove away with the King , and when they reached his palace the wedding was celebrated with much splendour .
So all turned out just as the three little Dwarfs had said .
After a year the Queen gave birth to a little son .
When her stepmother heard of her good fortune she came to the palace with her daughter by way of paying a call , and took up her abode there .
Now one day , when the King was out and nobody else near , the bad woman took the Queen by her head , and the daughter took her by her heels , and they dragged her from her bed , and flung her out of the window into the stream which flowed beneath it .
Then the stepmother laid her ugly daughter in the Queen 's place , and covered her up with the clothes , so that nothing of her was seen .
When the King came home and wished to speak to his wife the woman called out : ` Quietly , quietly I this will never do ; your wife is very ill , you must let her rest all to-day . '
The King suspected no evil , and did n't come again till next morning .
When he spoke to his wife and she answered him , instead of the usual piece of gold a toad jumped out of her mouth .
Then he asked what it meant , and the old woman told him it was nothing but weakness , and that she would soon be all right again .
But that same evening the scullion noticed a duck swimming up the gutter , saying as it passed : ` What does the King , I pray you tell , Is he awake or sleeps he well ? '
and receiving no reply , it continued : ` And all my guests , are they asleep ? '
and the Scullion answered : ` Yes , one and all they slumber deep . '
Then the Duck went on : ` And what about my baby dear ? '
and he answered : ` Oh , it sleeps soundly , never fear . '
Then the Duck assumed the Queen 's shape , went up to the child 's room , tucked him up comfortably in his cradle , and then swam back down the gutter again , in the likeness of a Duck .
This was repeated for two nights , and on the third the Duck said to the Scullion : ` Go and tell the King to swing his sword three times over me on the threshold . '
The Scullion did as the creature bade him , and the King came with his sword and swung it three times over the bird , and lo and behold !
his wife stood before him once more , alive , and as blooming as ever .
The King rejoiced greatly , but he kept the Queen in hiding till the Sunday on which the child was to be christened .
After the christening he said : ` What punishment does that person deserve who drags another out of bed , and throws him or her , as the case may be , into the water ? '
Then the wicked old stepmother answered : ` No better fate than to be put into a barrel lined with sharp nails , and to be rolled in it down the hill into the water . '
` You have pronounced your own doom , ' said the King ; and he ordered a barrel to be made lined with sharp nails , and in it he put the bad old woman and her daughter .
Then it was fastened down securely , and the barrel was rolled down the hill till it fell into the river .
-LRB- 19 -RRB- -LRB- 19 -RRB- Grimm .
DAPPLEGRIM THERE was once upon a time a couple of rich folks who had twelve sons , and when the youngest was grown up he would not stay at home any longer , but would go out into the world and seek his fortune .
His father and mother said that they thought he was very well off at home , and that he was welcome to stay with them ; but he could not rest , and said that he must and would go , so at last they had to give him leave .
When he had walked a long way , he came to a King 's palace .
There he asked for a place and got it .
Now the daughter of the King of that country had been carried off into the mountains by a Troll , and the King had no other children , and for this cause both he and all his people were full of sorrow and affliction , and the King had promised the Princess and half his kingdom to anyone who could set her free ; but there was no one who could do it , though a great number had tried .
So when the youth had been there for the space of a year or so , he wanted to go home again to pay his parents a visit ; but when he got there his father and mother were dead , and his brothers had divided everything that their parents possessed between themselves , so that there was nothing at all left for him .
` Shall I , then , receive nothing at all of my inheritance ? '
asked the youth .
` Who could know that you were still alive -- you who have been a wanderer so long ? '
answered the brothers .
` However , there are twelve mares upon the hills which we have not yet divided among us , and if you would like to have them for your share , you may take them . '
So the youth , well pleased with this , thanked them , and at once set off to the hill where the twelve mares were at pasture .
When he got up there and found them , each mare had her foal , and by the side of one of them was a big dapple-grey foal as well , which was so sleek that it shone again .
` Well , my little foal , you are a fine fellow ! '
said the youth .
` Yes , but if you will kill all the other little foals so that I can suck all the mares for a year , you shall see how big and handsome I shall be then ! '
said the Foal .
So the youth did this -- he killed all the twelve foals , and then went back again .
Next year , when he came home again to look after his mares and the foal , it was as fat as it could be , and its coat shone with brightness , and it was so big that the lad had the greatest difficulty in getting on its back , and each of the mares had another foal .
` Well , it 's very evident that I have lost nothing by letting you suck all my mares , ' said the lad to the yearling ; ` but now you are quite big enough , and must come away with me . '
` No , ' said the Colt , ' I must stay here another year ; kill the twelve little foals , and then I can suck all the mares this year also , and you shall see how big and handsome I shall be by summer . '
So the youth did it again , and when he went up on the hill next year to look after his colt and the mares , each of the mares had her foal again ; but the dappled colt was so big that when the lad wanted to feel its neck to see how fat it was , he could not reach up to it , it was so high ?
and it was so bright that the light glanced off its coat .
` Big and handsome you were last year , my colt , but this year you are ever so much handsomer , ' said the youth ; ` in all the King 's court no such horse is to be found .
But now you shall come away with me . '
` No , ' said the dappled Colt once more ; ` here I must stay for another year .
Just kill the twelve little foals again , so that I can suck the mares this year also , and then come and look at me in the summer . '
So the youth did it -- he killed all the little foals , and then went home again .
But next year , when he returned to look after the dappled colt and the mares , he was quite appalled .
He had never imagined that any horse could become so big and overgrown , for the dappled horse had to lie down on all fours before the youth could get on his back , and it was very hard to do that even when it was lying down , and it was so plump that its coat shone and glistened just as if it had been a looking-glass .
This time the dappled horse was not unwilling to go away with the youth , so he mounted it , and when he came riding home to his brothers they all smote their hands together and crossed themselves , for never in their lives had they either seen or heard tell of such a horse as that .
` If you will procure me the best shoes for my horse , and the most magnificent saddle and bridle that can be found , ' said the youth , ` you may have all my twelve mares just as they are standing out on the hill , and their twelve foals into the bargain . '
For this year also each mare had her foal .
The brothers were quite willing to do this ; so the lad got such shoes for his horse that the sticks and stones flew high up into the air as he rode away over the hills , and such a gold saddle and such a gold bridle that they could be seen glittering and glancing from afar .
` And now we will go to the King 's palace , ' said Dapplegrim -- that was the horse 's name , ` but bear in mind that you must ask the King for a good stable and excellent fodder for me . '
So the lad promised not to forget to do that .
He rode to the palace , and it will be easily understood that with such a horse as he had he was not long on the way .
When he arrived there , the King was standing out on the steps , and how he did stare at the man who came riding up !
` Nay , ' said he , ` never in my whole life have I seen such a man and such a horse . '
And when the youth inquired if he could have a place in the King 's palace , the King was so delighted that he could have danced on the steps where he was standing , and there and then the lad was told that he should have a place .
` Yes ; but I must have a good stable and most excellent fodder for my horse , ' said he .
So they told him that he should have sweet hay and oats , and as much of them as the dappled horse chose to have , and all the other riders had to take their horses out of the stable that Dapplegrim might stand alone and really have plenty of room .
But this did not last long , for the other people in the King 's Court became envious of the lad , and there was no bad thing that they would not have done to him if they had but dared .
At last they bethought themselves of telling the King that the youth had said that , if he chose , he was quite able to rescue the Princess who had been carried off into the mountain a long time ago by the Troll .
The King immediately summoned the lad into his presence , and said that he had been informed that he had said that it was in his power to rescue the Princess , so he was now to do it .
If he succeeded in this , he no doubt knew that the King had promised his daughter and half the kingdom to anyone who set her free , which promise should be faithfully and honourably kept , but if he failed he should be put to death .
The youth denied that he had said this , but all to no purpose , for the King was deaf to all his words ; so there was nothing to be done but say that he would make the attempt .
He went down into the stable , and very sad and full of care he was .
Then Dapplegrim inquired why he was so troubled , and the youth told him , and said that he did not know what to do , ` for as to setting the Princess free , that was downright impossible . '
` Oh , but it might be done , ' said Dapplegrim . '
I will help you ; but you must first have me well shod .
You must ask for ten pounds of iron and twelve pounds of steel for the shoeing , and one smith to hammer and one to hold . '
So the youth did this , and no one said him nay .
He got both the iron and the steel , and the smiths , and thus was Dapplegrim shod strongly and well , and when the youth went out of the King 's palace a cloud of dust rose up behind him .
But when he came to the mountain into which the Princess had been carried , the difficulty was to ascend the precipitous wall of rock by which he was to get on to the mountain beyond , for the rock stood right up on end , as steep as a house side and as smooth as a sheet of glass .
The first time the youth rode at it he got a little way up the precipice , but then both Dapplegrim 's fore legs slipped , and down came horse and rider with a sound like thunder among the mountains .
The next time that he rode at it he got a little farther up , but then one of Dapplegrim 's fore legs slipped , and down they went with the sound of a landslip .
But the third time Dapplegrim said : ` Now we must show what we can do , ' and went at it once more till the stones sprang up sky high , and thus they got up .
Then the lad rode into the mountain cleft at full gallop and caught up the Princess on his saddle-bow , and then out again before the Troll even had time to stand up , and thus the Princess was set free .
When the youth returned to the palace the King was both happy and delighted to get his daughter back again , as may easily be believed , but somehow or other the people about the Court had so worked on him that he was angry with the lad too .
` Thou shalt have my thanks for setting my Princess free , ' he said , when the youth came into the palace with her , and was then about to go away .
She ought to be just as much my Princess as she is yours now , for you are a man of your word , ' said the youth .
` Yes , yes , ' said the King .
` Have her thou shalt , as I have said it ; but first of all thou must make the sun shine into my palace here . '
For there was a large and high hill outside the windows which overshadowed the palace so much that the sun could not shine in .
` That was no part of our bargain , ' answered the youth .
` But as nothing that I can say will move you , I suppose I shall have to try to do my best , for the Princess I will have . '
So he went down to Dapplegrim again and told him what the King desired , and Dapplegrim thought that it might easily be done ; but first of all he must have new shoes , and ten pounds of iron and twelve pounds of steel must go to the making of them , and two smiths were also necessary , one to hammer and one to hold , and then it would be very easy to make the sun shine into the King 's palace .
The lad asked for these things and obtained them instantly , for the King thought that for very shame he could not refuse to give them , and so Dapplegrim got new shoes , and they were good ones .
The youth seated himself on him , and once more they went their way , and for each hop that Dapplegrim made , down went the hill fifteen ells into the earth , and so they went on until there was no hill left for the King to see .
When the youth came down again to the King 's palace he asked the King if the Princess should not at last be his , for now no one could say that the sun was not shining into the palace .
But the other people in the palace had again stirred up the King , and he answered that the youth should have her , and that he had never intended that he should not ; but first of all he must get her quite as good a horse to ride to the wedding on as that which he had himself .
The youth said that the King had never told him he was to do that , and it seemed to him that he had now really earned the Princess ; but the King stuck to what he had said , and if the youth were unable to do it he was to lose his life , the King said .
The youth went down to the stable again , and very sad and sorrowful he was , as anyone may well imagine .
Then he told Dapplegrim that the King had now required that he should get the Princess as good a bridal horse as that which the bridegroom had , or he should lose his life .
` But that will be no easy thing to do , ' said he , ` for your equal is not to be found in all the world . '
` Oh yes , there is one to match me , ' said Dapplegrim .
` But it will not be easy to get him , for he is underground .
However , we will try .
Now you must go up to the King and ask for new shoes for me , and for them we must again have ten pounds of iron , twelve pounds of steel , and two smiths , one to hammer and one to hold , but be very particular to see that the hooks are very sharp .
And you must also ask for twelve barrels of rye , and twelve slaughtered oxen must we have with us , and all the twelve ox-hides with twelve hundred spikes set in each of them ; all these things must we have , likewise a barrel of tar with twelve tons of tar in it .
The youth went to the King and asked for all the things that Dapplegrim had named , and once more , as the King thought that it would be disgraceful to refuse them to him , he obtained them all .
So he mounted Dapplegrim and rode away from the Court , and when he had ridden for a long , long time over hills and moors , Dapplegrim asked : ` Do you hear anything ? '
` Yes ; there is such a dreadful whistling up above in the air that I think I am growing alarmed , ' said the youth .
` That is all the wild birds in the forest flying about ; they are sent to stop us , ' said Dapplegrim .
` But just cut a hole in the corn sacks , and then they will be so busy with the corn that they will forget us . '
The youth did it .
He cut holes in the corn sacks so that barley and rye ran out on every side , and all the wild birds that were in the forest came in such numbers that they darkened the sun .
But when they caught sight of the corn they could not refrain from it , but flew down and began to scratch and pick at the corn and rye , and at last they began to fight among themselves , and forgot all about the youth and Dapplegrim , and did them no harm .
And now the youth rode onwards for a long , long time , over hill and dale , over rocky places and morasses , and then Dapplegrim began to listen again , and asked the youth if he heard anything now .
` Yes ; now I hear such a dreadful crackling and crashing in the forest on every side that I think I shall be really afraid , ' said the youth .
` That is all the wild beasts in the forest , ' said Dapplegrim ; ` they are sent out to stop us .
But just throw out the twelve carcasses of the oxen , and they will be so much occupied with them that they will quite forget us . '
So the youth threw out the carcasses of the oxen , and then all the wild beasts in the forest , both bears and wolves , and lions , and grim beasts of all kinds , came .
But when they caught sight of the carcasses of the oxen they began to fight for them till the blood flowed , and they entirely forgot Dapplegrim and the youth .
So the youth rode onwards again , and many and many were the new scenes they saw , for travelling on Dapplegrim 's back was not travelling slowly , as may be imagined , and then Dapplegrim neighed .
` Do you hear anything ?
he said .
` Yes ; I heard something like a foal neighing quite plainly a long , long way off , ' answered the youth .
` That 's a full-grown colt , ' said Dapplegrim , ` if you hear it so plainly when it is so far away from us . '
So they travelled onwards a long time , and saw one new scene after another once more .
Then Dapplegrim neighed again .
` Do you hear anything now ? '
said he .
` Yes ; now I heard it quite distinctly , and it neighed like a full-grown horse , ' answered the youth .
` Yes , and you will hear it again very soon , ' said Dapplegrim ; ` and then you will hear what a voice it has . '
So they travelled on through many more different kinds of country , and then Dapplegrim neighed for the third time ; but before he could ask the youth if he heard anything , there was such a neighing on the other side of the heath that the youth thought that hills and rocks would be rent in pieces .
` Now he is here ! '
said Dapplegrim .
` Be quick , and fling over me the ox-hides that have the spikes in them , throw the twelve tons of tar over the field , and climb up into that great spruce fir tree .
When he comes , fire will spurt out of both his nostrils , and then the tar will catch fire .
Now mark what I say -- if the flame ascends I conquer , and if it sinks I fail ; but if you see that I am winning , fling the bridle , which you must take off me , over his head , and then he will become quite gentle . '
Just as the youth had flung all the hides with the spikes over Dapplegrim , and the tar over the field , and had got safely up into the spruce fir , a horse came with flame spouting from his nostrils , and the tar caught fire in a moment ; and Dapplegrim and the horse began to fight until the stones leapt up to the sky .
They bit , and they fought with their fore legs and their hind legs , and sometimes the youth looked at them .
And sometimes he looked at the tar , but at last the flames began to rise , for wheresoever the strange horse bit or wheresoever he kicked he hit upon the spikes in the hides , and at length he had to yield .
When the youth saw that , he was not long in getting down from the tree and flinging the bridle over the horse 's head , and then he became so tame that he might have been led by a thin string .
This horse was dappled too , and so like Dapplegrim that no one could distinguish the one from the other .
The youth seated himself on the dappled horse which he had captured , and rode home again to the King 's palace , and Dapplegrim ran loose by his side .
When he got there , the King was standing outside in the courtyard .
` Can you tell me which is the horse I have caught , and which is the one I had before ? '
said the youth .
` If you ca n't , I think your daughter is mine . '
The King went and looked at both the dappled horses ; he looked high and he looked low , he looked before and he looked behind , but there was not a hair 's difference between the two .
` No , ' said the King ; ` that I can not tell thee , and as thou hast procured such a splendid bridal horse for my daughter thou shalt have her ; but first we must have one more trial , just to see if thou art fated to have her .
She shall hide herself twice , and then thou shalt hide thyself twice .
If thou canst find her each time that she hides herself , and if she can not find thee in thy hiding-places , then it is fated , and thou shalt have the Princess . '
` That , too , was not in our bargain , ' said the youth .
` But we will make this trial since it must be so . '
So the King 's daughter was to hide herself first .
Then she changed herself into a duck , and lay swimming in a lake that was just outside the palace .
But the youth went down into the stable and asked Dapplegrim what she had done with herself .
` Oh , all that you have to do is to take your gun , and go down to the water and aim at the duck which is swimming about there , and she will soon discover herself , ' said Dapplegrim .
The youth snatched up his gun and ran to the lake . '
I will just have a shot at that duck , ' said he , and began to aim at it .
` Oh , no , dear friend , do n't shoot !
It is I , ' said the Princess .
So he had found her once .
The second time the Princess changed herself into a loaf , and laid herself on the table among four other loaves ; and she was so like the other loaves that no one could see any difference between them .
But the youth again went down to the stable to Dapplegrim , and told him that the Princess had hidden herself again , and that he had not the least idea what had become of her .
` Oh , just take a very large bread-knife , sharpen it , and pretend that you are going to cut straight through the third of the four loaves which are lying on the kitchen table in the King 's palace -- count them from right to left -- and you will soon find her , ' said Dapplegrim .
So the youth went up to the kitchen , and began to sharpen the largest bread-knife that he could find ; then he caught hold of the third loaf on the left-hand side , and put the knife to it as if he meant to cut it straight in two . '
I will have a bit of this bread for myself , ' said he .
` No , dear friend , do n't cut , it is I ! '
said the Princess again ; so he had found her the second time .
And now it was his turn to go and hide himself ; but Dapplegrim had given him such good instructions that it was not easy to find him .
First he turned himself into a horse-fly , and hid himself in Dapplegrim 's left nostril .
The Princess went poking about and searching everywhere , high and low , and wanted to go into Dapplegrim 's stall too , but he began to bite and kick about so that she was afraid to go there , and could not find the youth .
` Well , ' said she , ` as I am unable to find you , you must show yourself ; ` whereupon the youth immediately appeared standing there on the stable floor .
Dapplegrim told him what he was to do the second time , and he turned himself into a lump of earth , and stuck himself between the hoof and the shoe on Dapplegrim 's left fore foot .
Once more the King 's daughter went and sought everywhere , inside and outside , until at last she came into the stable , and wanted to go into the stall beside Dapplegrim .
So this time he allowed her to go into it , and she peered about high and low , but she could not look under his hoofs , for he stood much too firmly on his legs for that , and she could not find the youth .
` Well , you will just have to show where you are yourself , for I ca n't find you , ' said the Princess , and in an instant the youth was standing by her side on the floor of the stable .
` Now you are mine ! '
said he to the Princess .
` Now you can see that it is fated that she should be mine , ' he said to the King .
` Yes , fated it is , ' said the King .
` So what must be , must . '
Then everything was made ready for the wedding with great splendour and promptitude , and the youth rode to church on Dapplegrim , and the King 's daughter on the other horse .
So everyone must see that they could not be long on their way thither .
-LRB- 20 -RRB- -LRB- 20 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE ENCHANTED CANARY I ONCE upon a time , in the reign of King Cambrinus , there lived at Avesnes one of his lords , who was the finest man -- by which I mean the fattest -- in the whole country of Flanders .
He ate four meals a day , slept twelve hours out of the twenty-four , and the only thing he ever did was to shoot at small birds with his bow and arrow .
Still , with all his practice he shot very badly , he was so fat and heavy , and as he grew daily fatter , he was at last obliged to give up walking , and be dragged about in a wheel-chair , and the people made fun of him , and gave him the name of my Lord Tubby .
Now , the only trouble that Lord Tubby had was about his son , whom he loved very much , although they were not in the least alike , for the young Prince was as thin as a cuckoo .
And what vexed him more than all was , that though the young ladies throughout all his lands did their best to make the Prince fall in love with them , he would have nothing to say to any of them , and told his father he did not wish to marry .
Instead of chatting with them in the dusk , he wandered about the woods , whispering to the moon .
No wonder the young ladies thought him very odd , but they liked him all the better for that ; and as he had received at his birth the name of Desire , they all called him d'Amour Desire .
` What is the matter with you ? '
his father often said to him .
` You have everything you can possibly wish for : a good bed , good food , and tuns full of beer .
The only thing you want , in order to become as fat as a pig , is a wife that can bring you broad , rich lands .
So marry , and you will be perfectly happy . ' '
I ask nothing better than to marry , ' replied Desire , ` but I have never seen a woman that pleases me .
All the girls here are pink and white , and I am tired to death of their eternal lilie and roses .
` My faith ! '
cried Tubby ; ` do you want to marry a negress , and give me grandchildren as ugly as monkeys and as stupid as owls ? '
` No , father , nothing of the sort .
But there must be women somewhere in the world who are neither pink nor white , and I tell you , once for all , that I will never marry until I have found one exactly to my taste . '
II Some time afterwards , it happened that the Prior of the Abbey of Saint Amand sent to the Lord of Avesnes a basket of oranges , with a beautifully-written letter saying that these golden fruit , then unknown in Flanders , came straight from a land where the sun always shone .
That evening Tubby and his son ate the golden apples at supper , and thought them delicious .
Next morning as the day dawned , Desire went down to the stable and saddled his pretty white horse .
Then he went , all dressed for a journey , to the bedside of Tubby , and found him smoking his first pipe .
` Father , ' he said gravely , ' I have come to bid you farewell .
Last night I dreamed that I was walking in a wood , where the trees were covered with golden apples .
I gathered one of them , and when I opened it there came out a lovely princess with a golden skin .
That is the wife I want , and I am going to look for her . '
The Lord of Avesnes was so much astonished that he let his pipe fall to the ground ; then he became so diverted at the notion of his son marrying a yellow woman , and a woman shut up inside an orange , that he burst into fits of laughter .
Desire waited to bid him good-bye until he was quiet again ; but as his father went on laughing and showed no signs of stopping , the young man took his hand , kissed it tenderly , opened the door , and in the twinkling of an eye was as at the bottom of the staircase .
He jumped lightly on his horse , and was a mile from home before Tubby had ceased laughing . '
A yellow wife !
He must be mad !
fit for a strait waistcoat ! '
cried the good man , when he was able to speak .
` Here !
quick !
bring him back to me . '
The servants mounted their horses and rode after the Prince ; but as they did not know which road he had taken , they went all ways except the right one , and instead of bringing him back they returned themselves when it grew dark , with their horses worn out and covered with dust .
III When Desire thought they could no longer catch him , he pulled his horse into a walk , like a prudent man who knows he has far to go .
He travelled in this way for many weeks , passing by villages , towns , mountains , valleys , and plains , but always pushing south , where every day the sun seemed hotter and more brilliant .
At last one day at sunset Desire felt the sun so warm , that he thought he must now be near the place of his dream .
He was at that moment close to the corner of a wood where stood a little hut , before the door of which his horse stopped of his own accord .
An old man with a white beard was sitting on the doorstep enjoying the fresh air .
The Prince got down from his horse and asked leave to rest .
` Come in , my young friend , ' said the old man ; ` my house is not large , but it is big enough to hold a stranger . '
The traveller entered , and his host put before him a simple meal .
When his hunger was satisfied the old man said to him : ` If I do not mistake , you come from far .
May I ask where you are going ? ' '
I will tell you , ' answered Desire , ` though most likely you will laugh at me .
I dreamed that in the land of the sun there was a wood full of orange trees , and that in one of the oranges I should find a beautiful princess who is to be my wife .
It is she I am seeking . '
` Why should I laugh ? '
asked the old man .
` Madness in youth is true wisdom .
Go , young man , follow your dream , and if you do not find the happiness that you seek , at any rate you will have had the happiness of seeking it . '
IV The next day the Prince arose early and took leave of his host .
` The wood that you saw in your dream is not far from here , ' said the old man .
` It is in the depth of the forest , and this road will lead you there .
You will come to a vast park surrounded by high walls .
In the middle of the park is a castle , where dwells a horrible witch who allows no living being to enter the doors .
Behind the castle is the orange grove .
Follow the wall till you come to a heavy iron gate .
Do n't try to press it open , but oil the hinges with this , ' and the old man gave him a small bottle .
` The gate will open of itself , ' he continued , ` and a huge dog which guards the castle will come to you with his mouth wide open , but just throw him this oat cake .
Next , you will see a baking woman leaning over her heated oven .
Give her this brush .
Lastly , you will find a well on your left ; do not forget to take the cord of the bucket and spread it in the sun .
When you have done this , do not enter the castle , but go round it and enter the orange grove .
Then gather three oranges , and get back to the gate as fast as you can .
Once out of the gate , leave the forest by the opposite side .
` Now , attend to this : whatever happens , do not open your oranges till you reach the bank of a river , or a fountain .
Out of each orange will come a princess , and you can choose which you like for your wife .
Your choice once made , be very careful never to leave your bride for an instant , and remember that the danger which is most to be feared is never the danger we are most afraid of . '
V Desire thanked his host warmly , and took the road he pointed out .
In less than an hour he arrived at the wall , which was very high indeed .
He sprang to the ground , fastened his horse to a tree , and soon found the iron gate .
Then he took out his bottle and oiled the hinges , when the gate opened of itself , and he saw an old castle standing inside .
The Prince entered boldly into the courtyard .
Suddenly he heard fierce howls , and a dog as tall as a donkey , with eyes like billiard balls , came towards him , showing his teeth , which were like the prongs of a fork .
Desire flung him the oat cake , which the great dog instantly snapped up , and the young Prince passed quietly on .
A few yards further he saw a huge oven , with a wide , red-hot gaping mouth .
A woman as tall as a giant was leaning over the oven .
Desire gave her the brush , which she took in silence .
Then he went on to the well , drew up the cord , which was half rotten , and stretched it out in the sun .
Lastly he went round the castle , and plunged into the orange grove .
There he gathered the three most beautiful oranges he could find , and turned to go back to the gate .
But just at this moment the sun was darkened , the earth trembled , and Desire heard a voice crying : ` Baker , baker , take him by his feet , and throw him into the oven ! '
` No , ' replied the baker ; ' a long time has passed since I first began to scour this oven with my own flesh .
YOU never cared to give me a brush ; but he has given me one , and he shall go in peace . '
` Rope , O rope ! '
cried the voice again , ` twine yourself round his neck and strangle him . '
` No , ' replied the rope ; ` you have left me for many years past to fall to pieces with the damp .
He has stretched me out in the sun .
Let him go in peace . '
` Dog , my good dog , ' cried the voice , more and more angry , ` jump at his throat and eat him up . '
` No , ' replied the dog ; ` though I have served you long , you never gave me any bread .
He has given me as much as I want .
Let him go in peace . '
` Iron gate , iron gate , ' cried the voice , growling like thunder , ` fall on him and grind him to powder . '
` No , ' replied the gate ; ` it is a hundred years since you left me to rust , and he has oiled me .
Let him go in peace . '
VI Once outside , the young adventurer put his oranges into a bag that hung from his saddle , mounted his horse , and rode quickly out of the forest .
Now , as he was longing to see the princesses , he was very anxious to come to a river or a fountain , but , though he rode for hours , a river or fountain was nowhere to be seen .
Still his heart was light , for he felt that he had got through the most difficult part of his task , and the rest was easy .
About mid-day he reached a sandy plain , scorching in the sun .
Here he was seized with dreadful thirst ; he took his gourd and raised it to his lips .
But the gourd was empty ; in the excitement of his joy he had forgotten to fill it .
He rode on , struggling with his sufferings , but at last he could bear it no longer .
He let himself slide to the earth , and lay down beside his horse , his throat burning , his chest heaving , and his head going round .
Already he felt that death was near him , when his eyes fell on the bag where the oranges peeped out .
Poor Desire , who had braved so many dangers to win the lady of his dreams , would have given at this moment all the princesses in the world , were they pink or golden , for a single drop of water .
` Ah ! '
he said to himself .
` If only these oranges were real fruit -- fruit as refreshing as what I ate in Flanders !
And , after all , who knows ? '
This idea put some life into him .
He had the strength to lift himself up and put his hand into his bag .
He drew out an orange and opened it with his knife .
Out of it flew the prettiest little female canary that ever was seen .
` Give me something to drink , I am dying of thirst , ' said the golden bird .
` Wait a minute , ' replied Desire , so much astonished that he forgot his own sufferings ; and to satisfy the bird he took a second orange , and opened it without thinking what he was doing .
Out of it flew another canary , and she too began to cry : ' I am dying of thirst ; give me something to drink . '
Then Tubby 's son saw his folly , and while the two canaries flew away he sank on the ground , where , exhausted by his last effort , he lay unconscious .
VII When he came to himself , he had a pleasant feeling of freshness all about him .
It was night , the sky was sparkling with stars , and the earth was covered with a heavy dew .
The traveller having recovered , mounted his horse , and at the first streak of dawn he saw a stream dancing in front of him , and stooped down and drank his fill .
He hardly had courage to open his last orange .
Then he remembered that the night before he had disobeyed the orders of the old man .
Perhaps his terrible thirst was a trick of the cunning witch , and suppose , even though he opened the orange on the banks of the stream , that he did not find in it the princess that he sought ?
He took his knife and cut it open .
Alas !
out of it flew a little canary , just like the others , who cried : ' I am thirsty ; give me something to drink . '
Great was the disappointment of Desire .
However , he was determined not to let this bird fly away ; so he took up some water in the palm of his hand and held it to its beak .
Scarcely had the canary drunk when she became a beautiful girl , tall and straight as a poplar tree , with black eyes and a golden skin .
Desire had never seen anyone half so lovely , and he stood gazing at her in delight .
On her side she seemed quite bewildered , but she looked about her with happy eyes , and was not at all afraid of her deliverer .
He asked her name .
She answered that she was called the Princess Zizi ; she was about sixteen years old , and for ten years of that time the witch had kept her shut up in an orange , in the shape of a canary .
` Well , then , my charming Zizi , ' said the young Prince , who was longing to marry her , ` let us ride away quickly so as to escape from the wicked witch . '
But Zizi wished to know where he meant to take her .
` To my father 's castle , ' he said .
He mounted his horse and took her in front of him , and , holding her carefully in his arms , they began their journey .
VIII Everything the Princess saw was new to her , and in passing through mountains , valleys , and towns , she asked a thousand questions .
Desire was charmed to answer them .
It is so delightful to teach those one loves !
Once she inquired what the girls in his country were like .
` They are pink and white , ' he replied , ` and their eyes are blue . '
` Do you like blue eyes ? '
said the Princess ; but Desire thought it was a good opportunity to find out what was in her heart , so he did not answer .
` And no doubt , ' went on the Princess , ` one of them is your intended bride ? '
Still he was silent , and Zizi drew herself up proudly .
` No , ' he said at last .
` None of the girls of my own country are beautiful in my eyes , and that is why I came to look for a wife in the land of the sun .
Was I wrong , my lovely Zizi ? '
This time it was Zizi 's turn to be silent .
IX Talking in this way they drew near to the castle .
When they were about four stone-throws from the gates they dismounted in the forest , by the edge of a fountain .
` My dear Zizi , ' said Tubby 's son , ` we can not present ourselves before my father like two common people who have come back from a walk .
We must enter the castle with more ceremony .
Wait for me here , and in an hour I will return with carriages and horses fit for a princess . '
` Do n't be long , ' replied Zizi , and she watched him go with wistful eyes .
When she was left by herself the poor girl began to feel afraid .
She was alone for the first time in her life , and in the middle of a thick forest .
Suddenly she heard a noise among the trees .
Fearing lest it should be a wolf , she hid herself in the hollow trunk of a willow tree which hung over the fountain .
It was big enough to hold her altogether , but she peeped out , and her pretty head was reflected in the clear water .
Then there appeared , not a wolf , but a creature quite as wicked and quite as ugly .
Let us see who this creature was .
X Not far from the fountain there lived a family of bricklayers .
Now , fifteen years before this time , the father in walking through the forest found a little girl , who had been deserted by the gypsies .
He carried her home to his wife , and the good woman was sorry for her , and brought her up with her own sons .
As she grew older , the little gypsy became much more remarkable for strength and cunning than for sense or beauty .
She had a low forehead , a flat nose , thick lips , coarse hair , and a skin not golden like that of Zizi , but the colour of clay .
As she was always being teased about her complexion , she got as noisy and cross as a titmouse .
So they used to call her Titty .
Titty was often sent by the bricklayer to fetch water from the fountain , and as she was very proud and lazy the gypsy disliked this very much .
It was she who had frightened Zizi by appearing with her pitcher on her shoulder .
Just as she was stooping to fill it , she saw reflected in the water the lovely image of the Princess .
` What a pretty face ! '
she exclaimed , ` Why , it must be mine !
How in the world can they call me ugly ?
I am certainly much too pretty to be their water carrier ! '
So saying , she broke her pitcher and went home .
` Where is your pitcher ? '
asked the bricklayer .
` Well , what do you expect ?
The pitcher may go many times to the well ... ' ` But at last it is broken .
Well , here is a bucket that will not break . '
The gypsy returned to the fountain , and addressing once more the image of Zizi , she said : ` No ; I do n't mean to be a beast of burden any longer . '
And she flung the bucket so high in the air that it stuck in the branches of an oak . '
I met a wolf , ' she told the bricklayer , ` and I broke the bucket across his nose . '
The bricklayer asked her no more questions , but took down a broom and gave her such a beating that her pride was humbled a little .
Then he handed to her an old copper milk-can , and said : ` If you do n't bring it back full , your bones shall suffer for it . '
XI Titty went off rubbing her sides ; but this time she did not dare to disobey , and in a very bad temper stooped down over the well .
It was not at all easy to fill the milk-can , which was large and round .
It would not go down into the well , and the gypsy had to try again and again .
At last her arms grew so tired that when she did manage to get the can properly under the water she had no strength to pull it up , and it rolled to the bottom .
On seeing the can disappear , she made such a miserable face that Zizi , who had been watching her all this time , burst into fits of laughter .
Titty turned round and perceived the mistake she had made ; and she felt so angry that she made up her mind to be revenged at once .
` What are you doing there , you lovely creature ? '
she said to Zizi . '
I am waiting for my lover , ' Zizi replied ; and then , with a simplicity quite natural in a girl who so lately had been a canary , she told all her story .
The gypsy had often seen the young Prince pass by , with his gun on his shoulder , when he was going after crows .
She was too ugly and ragged for him ever to have noticed her , but Titty on her side had admired him , though she thought he might well have been a little fatter .
` Dear , dear ! '
she said to herself .
` So he likes yellow women !
Why , I am yellow too , and if I could only think of a way -- ' It was not long before she did think of it .
` What ! '
cried the sly Titty , ` they are coming with great pomp to fetch you , and you are not afraid to show yourself to so many fine lords and ladies with your hair down like that ?
Get down at once , my poor child , and let me dress your hair for you ! '
The innocent Zizi came down at once , and stood by Titty .
The gypsy began to comb her long brown locks , when suddenly she drew a pin from her stays , and , just as the titmouse digs its beak into the heads of linnets and larks , Titty dug the pin into the head of Zizi .
No sooner did Zizi feel the prick of the pin than she became a bird again , and , spreading her wings , she flew away .
` That was neatly done , ' said the gypsy .
` The Prince will be clever if he finds his bride . '
And , arranging her dress , she seated herself on the grass to await Desire .
XII Meanwhile the Prince was coming as fast as his horse could carry him .
He was so impatient that he was always full fifty yards in front of the lords and ladies sent by Tubby to bring back Zizi .
At the sight of the hideous gypsy he was struck dumb with surprise and horror .
` Ah me ! '
said Titty , ` so you do n't know your poor Zizi ?
While you were away the wicked witch came , and turned me into this .
But if you only have the courage to marry me I shall get back my beauty . '
And she began to cry bitterly .
Now the good-natured Desire was as soft-hearted as he was brave .
` Poor girl , ' he thought to himself .
` It is not her fault , after all , that she has grown so ugly , it is mine .
Oh !
why did I not follow the old man 's advice ?
Why did I leave her alone ?
And besides , it depends on me to break the spell , and I love her too much to let her remain like this . '
So he presented the gypsy to the lords and ladies of the Court , explaining to them the terrible misfortune which had befallen his beautiful bride .
They all pretended to believe it , and the ladies at once put on the false princess the rich dresses they had brought for Zizi .
She was then perched on the top of a magnificent ambling palfrey , and they set forth to the castle .
But unluckily the rich dress and jewels only made Titty look uglier still , and Desire could not help feeling hot and uncomfortable when he made his entry with her into the city .
Bells were pealing , chimes ringing , and the people filling the streets and standing at their doors to watch the procession go by , and they could hardly believe their eyes as they saw what a strange bride their Prince had chosen .
In order to do her more honour , Tubby came to meet her at the foot of the great marble staircase .
At the sight of the hideous creature he almost fell backwards .
` What ! '
he cried .
` Is this the wonderful beauty ? '
` Yes , father , it is she , ' replied Desire with a sheepish look .
` But she has been bewitched by a wicked sorceress , and will not regain her beauty until she is my wife . '
` Does she say so ?
Well , if you believe that , you may drink cold water and think it bacon , ' the unhappy Tubby answered crossly .
But all the same , as he adored his son , he gave the gypsy his hand and led her to the great hall , where the bridal feast was spread .
XIII The feast was excellent , but Desire hardly touched anything .
However , to make up , the other guests ate greedily , and , as for Tubby , nothing ever took away his appetite .
When the moment arrived to serve the roast goose , there was a pause , and Tubby took the opportunity to lay down his knife and fork for a little .
But as the goose gave no sign of appearing , he sent his head carver to find out what was the matter in the kitchen .
Now this was what had happened .
While the goose was turning on the spit , a beautiful little canary hopped on to the sill of the open window .
` Good-morning , my fine cook , ' she said in a silvery voice to the man who was watching the roast .
` Good-morning , lovely golden bird , ' replied the chief of the scullions , who had been well brought up . '
I pray that Heaven may send you to sleep , ' said the golden bird , ` and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none left for Titty . '
And instantly the chief of the scullions fell fast asleep , and the goose was burnt to a cinder .
When he awoke he was horrified , and gave orders to pluck another goose , to stuff it with chestnuts , and put it on the spit .
While it was browning at the fire , Tubby inquired for his goose a second time .
The Master Cook himself mounted to the hall to make his excuses , and to beg his lord to have a little patience .
Tubby showed his patience by abusing his son .
` As if it was n't enough , ' he grumbled between his teeth , ` that the boy should pick up a hag without a penny , but the goose must go and burn now .
It is n't a wife he has brought me , it is Famine herself . '
XIV While the Master Cook was upstairs , the golden bird came again to perch on the window-sill , and called in his clear voice to the head scullion , who was watching the spit : ` Good-morning , my fine Scullion ! '
` Good-morning , lovely Golden Bird , ' replied the Scullion , whom the Master Cook had forgotten in his excitement to warn . '
I pray Heaven , ' went on the Canary , ` that it will send you to sleep , and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none left for Titty . '
And the Scullion fell fast asleep , and when the Master Cook came back he found the goose as black as the chimney .
In a fury he woke the Scullion , who in order to save himself from blame told the whole story .
` That accursed bird , ' said the Cook ; ` it will end by getting me sent away .
Come , some of you , and hide yourselves , and if it comes again , catch it and wring its neck . '
He spitted a third goose , lit a huge fire , and seated himself by it .
The bird appeared a third time , and said : ` Good-morning , my fine Cook . '
` Good-morning , lovely Golden Bird , ' replied the Cook , as if nothing had happened , and at the moment that the Canary was beginning , ' I pray Heaven that it may send , ' a scullion who was hidden outside rushed out and shut the shutters .
The bird flew into the kitchen .
Then all the cooks and scullions sprang after it , knocking at it with their aprons .
At length one of them caught it just at the very moment that Tubby entered the kitchen , waving his sceptre .
He had come to see for himself why the goose had never made its appearance .
The Scullion stopped at once , just as he was about to wring the Canary 's neck .
XV ` Will some one be kind enough to tell me the meaning of all this ? '
cried the Lord of Avesnes .
` Your Excellency , it is the bird , ' replied the Scullion , and he placed it in his hand .
` Nonsense !
What a lovely bird ! '
said Tubby , and in stroking its head he touched a pin that was sticking between its feathers .
He pulled it out , and lo !
the Canary at once became a beautiful girl with a golden skin who jumped lightly to the ground .
` Gracious !
what a pretty girl ! '
said Tubby .
` Father !
it is she !
it is Zizi ! '
exclaimed Desire , who entered at this moment .
And he took her in his arms , crying : ` My darling Zizi , how happy I am to see you once more ! '
` Well , and the other one ? '
asked Tubby .
The other one was stealing quietly to the door .
` Stop her !
called Tubby .
` We will judge her cause at once . '
And he seated himself solemnly on the oven , and condemned Titty to be burned alive .
After which the lords and cooks formed themselves in lines , and Tubby betrothed Desire to Zizi .
XVI The marriage took place a few days later .
All the boys in the country side were there , armed with wooden swords , and decorated with epaulets made of gilt paper .
Zizi obtained Titty 's pardon , and she was sent back to the brick-fields , followed and hooted at by all the boys .
And this is why to-day the country boys always throw stones at a titmouse .
On the evening of the wedding-day all the larders , cellars , cupboards and tables of the people , whether rich or poor , were loaded as if by enchantment with bread , wine , beer , cakes and tarts , roast larks , and even geese , so that Tubby could not complain any more that his son had married Famine .
Since that time there has always been plenty to eat in that country , and since that time , too , you see in the midst of the fair-haired blue-eyed women of Flanders a few beautiful girls , whose eyes are black and whose skins are the colour of gold .
They are the descendants of Zizi .
-LRB- 21 -RRB- -LRB- 21 -RRB- Charles Deulin , Contes du Roi Gambrinus .
THE TWELVE BROTHERS THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happily together , and they had twelve children , all of whom were boys .
One day the King said to his wife : ` If our thirteenth child is a girl , all her twelve brothers must die , so that she may be very rich and the kingdom hers alone . '
Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made , and filled them with shavings , and placed a little pillow in each .
These he put away in an empty room , and , giving the key to his wife , he bade her tell no one of it .
The Queen grieved over the sad fate of her sons and refused to be comforted , so much so that the youngest boy , who was always with her , and whom she had christened Benjamin , said to her one day : ` Dear mother , why are you so sad ? '
` My child , ' she answered , ' I may not tell you the reason . '
But he left her no peace , till she went and unlocked the room and showed him the twelve coffins filled with shavings , and with the little pillow laid in each .
Then she said : ` My dearest Benjamin , your father has had these coffins made for you and your eleven brothers , because if I bring a girl into the world you are all to be killed and buried in them . '
She wept bitterly as she spoke , but her son comforted her and said : ` Do n't cry , dear mother ; we 'll manage to escape somehow , and will fly for our lives . '
` Yes , ' replied his mother , ` that is what you must do -- go with your eleven brothers out into the wood , and let one of you always sit on the highest tree you can find , keeping watch on the tower of the castle .
If I give birth to a little son I will wave a white flag , and then you may safely return ; but if I give birth to a little daughter I will wave a red flag , which will warn you to fly away as quickly as you can , and may the kind Heaven have pity on you .
Every night I will get up and pray for you , in winter that you may always have a fire to warm yourselves by , and in summer that you may not languish in the heat . '
Then she blessed her sons and they set out into the wood .
They found a very high oak tree , and there they sat , turn about , keeping their eyes always fixed on the castle tower .
On the twelfth day , when the turn came to Benjamin , he noticed a flag waving in the air , but alas !
it was not white , but blood red , the sign which told them they must all die .
When the brothers heard this they were very angry , and said : ` Shall we forsooth suffer death for the sake of a wretched girl ?
Let us swear vengeance , and vow that wherever and whenever we shall meet one of her sex , she shall die at our hands . '
Then they went their way deeper into the wood , and in the middle of it , where it was thickest and darkest , they came upon a little enchanted house which stood empty .
` Here , ' they said , ` let us take up our abode , and you , Benjamin , you are the youngest and weakest , you shall stay at home and keep house for us ; we others will go out and fetch food . '
So they went forth into the wood , and shot hares and roe-deer , birds and wood-pigeons , and any other game they came across .
They always brought their spoils home to Benjamin , who soon learnt to make them into dainty dishes .
So they lived for ten years in this little house , and the time slipped merrily away .
In the meantime their little sister at home was growing up quickly .
She was kind-hearted and of a fair countenance , and she had a gold star right in the middle of her forehead .
One day a big washing was going on at the palace , and the girl looking down from her window saw twelve men 's shirts hanging up to dry , and asked her mother : ` Who in the world do these shirts belong to ?
Surely they are far too small for my father ? '
And the Queen answered sadly : ` Dear child , they belong to your twelve brothers . '
` But where are my twelve brothers ? '
said the girl . '
I have never even heard of them . '
` Heaven alone knows in what part of the wide world they are wandering , ' replied her mother .
Then she took the girl and opened the locked-up room ; she showed her the twelve coffins filled with shavings , and with the little pillow laid in each .
` These coffins , ' she said , ` were intended for your brothers , but they stole secretly away before you were born . '
Then she to tell her all that had happened , and when she had finished her daughter said : ` Do not cry , dearest mother ; I will go and seek my brothers till I find them . '
So she took the twelve shirts and went on straight into the middle of the big wood .
She walked all day long , and came in the evening to the little enchanted house .
She stepped in and found a youth who , marvelling at her beauty , at the royal robes she wore , and at the golden star on her forehead , asked her where she came from and whither she was going . '
I am a Princess , ' she answered , ` and am seeking for my twelve brothers .
I mean to wander as far as the blue sky stretches over the earth till I find them . '
Then she showed him the twelve shirts which she had taken with her , and Benjamin saw that it must be his sister , and said : ' I am Benjamin , your youngest brother . '
So they wept for joy , and kissed and hugged each other again and again .
After a time Benjamin said : ` Dear sister , there is still a little difficulty , for we had all agreed that any girl we met should die at our hands , because it was for the sake of a girl that we had to leave our kingdom . '
` But , ' she replied , ' I will gladly die if by that means I can restore my twelve brothers to their own . '
` No , ' he answered , ` there is no need for that ; only go and hide under that tub till our eleven brothers come in , and I 'll soon make matters right with them . '
She did as she was bid , and soon the others came home from the chase and sat down to supper .
` Well , Benjamin , what 's the news ? '
they asked .
But he replied , ' I like that ; have you nothing to tell me ? '
` No , ' they answered .
Then he said : ` Well , now , you 've been out in the wood all the day and I 've stayed quietly at home , and all the same I know more than you do . '
` Then tell us , ' they cried .
But he answered : ` Only on condition that you promise faithfully that the first girl we meet shall not be killed . '
` She shall be spared , ' they promised , ` only tell us the news . '
Then Benjamin said : ` Our sister is here ! '
and he lifted up the tub and the Princess stepped forward , with her royal robes and with the golden star on her forehead , looking so lovely and sweet and charming that they all fell in love with her on the spot .
They arranged that she should stay at home with Benjamin and help him in the house work , while the rest of the brothers went out into the wood and shot hares and roe-deer , birds and wood-pigeons .
And Benjamin and his sister cooked their meals for them .
She gathered herbs to cook the vegetables in , fetched the wood , and watched the pots on the fire , and always when her eleven brothers returned she had their supper ready for them .
Besides this , she kept the house in order , tidied all the rooms , and made herself so generally useful that her brothers were delighted , and they all lived happily together .
One day the two at home prepared a fine feast , and when they were all assembled they sat down and ate and drank and made merry .
Now there was a little garden round the enchanted house , in which grew twelve tall lilies .
The girl , wishing to please her brothers , plucked the twelve flowers , meaning to present one to each of them as they sat at supper .
But hardly had she plucked the flowers when her brothers were turned into twelve ravens , who flew croaking over the wood , and the house and garden vanished also .
So the poor girl found herself left all alone in the wood , and as she looked round her she noticed an old woman standing close beside her , who said : ` My child , what have you done ?
Why did n't you leave the flowers alone ?
They were your twelve brothers .
Now they are changed for ever into ravens . '
The girl asked , sobbing : ` Is there no means of setting them free ? '
` No , ' said the old woman , ` there is only one way in the whole world , and that is so difficult that you wo n't free them by it , for you would have to be dumb and not laugh for seven years , and if you spoke a single word , though but an hour were wanting to the time , your silence would all have been in vain , and that one word would slay your brothers . '
Then the girl said to herself : ` If that is all I am quite sure I can free my brothers . '
So she searched for a high tree , and when she had found one she climbed up it and spun all day long , never laughing or speaking one word .
Now it happened one day that a King who was hunting in the wood had a large greyhound , who ran sniffing to the tree on which the girl sat , and jumped round it , yelping and barking furiously .
The King 's attention was attracted , and when he looked up and beheld the beautiful Princess with the golden star on her forehead , he was so enchanted by her beauty that he asked her on the spot to be his wife .
She gave no answer , but nodded slightly with her head .
Then he climbed up the tree himself , lifted her down , put her on his horse and bore her home to his palace .
The marriage was celebrated with much pomp and ceremony , but the bride neither spoke nor laughed .
When they had lived a few years happily together , the King 's mother , who was a wicked old woman , began to slander the young Queen , and said to the King : ` She is only a low-born beggar maid that you have married ; who knows what mischief she is up to ?
If she is deaf and ca n't speak , she might at least laugh ; depend upon it , those who do n't laugh have a bad conscience . '
At first the King paid no heed to her words , but the old woman harped so long on the subject , and accused the young Queen of so many bad things , that at last he let himself be talked over , and condemned his beautiful wife to death .
So a great fire was lit in the courtyard of the palace , where she was to be burnt , and the King watched the proceedings from an upper window , crying bitterly the while , for he still loved his wife dearly .
But just as she had been bound to the stake , and the flames were licking her garments with their red tongues , the very last moment of the seven years had come .
Then a sudden rushing sound was heard in the air , and twelve ravens were seen flying overhead .
They swooped downwards , and as soon as they touched the ground they turned into her twelve brothers , and she knew that she had freed them .
They quenched the flames and put out the fire , and , unbinding their dear sister from the stake , they kissed and hugged her again and again .
And now that she was able to open her mouth and speak , she told the King why she had been dumb and not able to laugh .
The King rejoiced greatly when he heard she was innocent , and they all lived happily ever afterwards .
-LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- Grimm .
RAPUNZEL ONCE upon a time there lived a man and his wife who were very unhappy because they had no children .
These good people had a little window at the back of their house , which looked into the most lovely garden , full of all manner of beautiful flowers and vegetables ; but the garden was surrounded by a high wall , and no one dared to enter it , for it belonged to a witch of great power , who was feared by the whole world .
One day the woman stood at the window overlooking the garden , and saw there a bed full of the finest rampion : the leaves looked so fresh and green that she longed to eat them .
The desire grew day by day , and just because she knew she could n't possibly get any , she pined away and became quite pale and wretched .
Then her husband grew alarmed and said : ` What ails you , dear wife ? '
` Oh , ' she answered , ` if I do n't get some rampion to eat out of the garden behind the house , I know I shall die . '
The man , who loved her dearly , thought to himself , ` Come !
rather than let your wife die you shall fetch her some rampion , no matter the cost . '
So at dusk he climbed over the wall into the witch 's garden , and , hastily gathering a handful of rampion leaves , he returned with them to his wife .
She made them into a salad , which tasted so good that her longing for the forbidden food was greater than ever .
If she were to know any peace of mind , there was nothing for it but that her husband should climb over the garden wall again , and fetch her some more .
So at dusk over he got , but when he reached the other side he drew back in terror , for there , standing before him , was the old witch .
` How dare you , ' she said , with a wrathful glance , ` climb into my garden and steal my rampion like a common thief ?
You shall suffer for your foolhardiness . '
` Oh ! '
he implored , ` pardon my presumption ; necessity alone drove me to the deed .
My wife saw your rampion from her window , and conceived such a desire for it that she would certainly have died if her wish had not been gratified . '
Then the Witch 's anger was a little appeased , and she said : ` If it 's as you say , you may take as much rampion away with you as you like , but on one condition only -- that you give me the child your wife will shortly bring into the world .
All shall go well with it , and I will look after it like a mother . '
The man in his terror agreed to everything she asked , and as soon as the child was born the Witch appeared , and having given it the name of Rapunzel , which is the same as rampion , she carried it off with her .
Rapunzel was the most beautiful child under the sun .
When she was twelve years old the Witch shut her up in a tower , in the middle of a great wood , and the tower had neither stairs nor doors , only high up at the very top a small window .
When the old Witch wanted to get in she stood underneath and called out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' for Rapunzel had wonderful long hair , and it was as fine as spun gold .
Whenever she heard the Witch 's voice she unloosed her plaits , and let her hair fall down out of the window about twenty yards below , and the old Witch climbed up by it .
After they had lived like this for a few years , it happened one day that a Prince was riding through the wood and passed by the tower .
As he drew near it he heard someone singing so sweetly that he stood still spell-bound , and listened .
It was Rapunzel in her loneliness trying to while away the time by letting her sweet voice ring out into the wood .
The Prince longed to see the owner of the voice , but he sought in vain for a door in the tower .
He rode home , but he was so haunted by the song he had heard that he returned every day to the wood and listened .
One day , when he was standing thus behind a tree , he saw the old Witch approach and heard her call out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair . '
Then Rapunzel let down her plaits , and the Witch climbed up by them .
` So that 's the staircase , is it ? '
said the Prince .
` Then I too will climb it and try my luck . '
So on the following day , at dusk , he went to the foot of the tower and cried : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' and as soon as she had let it down the Prince climbed up .
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man came in , for she had never seen one before ; but the Prince spoke to her so kindly , and told her at once that his heart had been so touched by her singing , that he felt he should know no peace of mind till he had seen her .
Very soon Rapunzel forgot her fear , and when he asked her to marry him she consented at once .
` For , ' she thought , ` he is young and handsome , and I 'll certainly be happier with him than with the old Witch . '
So she put her hand in his and said : ` Yes , I will gladly go with you , only how am I to get down out of the tower ?
Every time you come to see me you must bring a skein of silk with you , and I will make a ladder of them , and when it is finished I will climb down by it , and you will take me away on your horse . '
They arranged that till the ladder was ready , he was to come to her every evening , because the old woman was with her during the day .
The old Witch , of course , knew nothing of what was going on , till one day Rapunzel , not thinking of what she was about , turned to the Witch and said : ` How is it , good mother , that you are so much harder to pull up than the young Prince ?
He is always with me in a moment . '
` Oh !
you wicked child , ' cried the Witch .
` What is this I hear ?
I thought I had hidden you safely from the whole world , and in spite of it you have managed to deceive me . '
In her wrath she seized Rapunzel 's beautiful hair , wound it round and round her left hand , and then grasping a pair of scissors in her right , snip snap , off it came , and the beautiful plaits lay on the ground .
And , worse than this , she was so hard-hearted that she took Rapunzel to a lonely desert place , and there left her to live in loneliness and misery .
But on the evening of the day in which she had driven poor Rapunzel away , the Witch fastened the plaits on to a hook in the window , and when the Prince came and called out : ` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair , ' she let them down , and the Prince climbed up as usual , but instead of his beloved Rapunzel he found the old Witch , who fixed her evil , glittering eyes on him , and cried mockingly : ` Ah , ah !
you thought to find your lady love , but the pretty bird has flown and its song is dumb ; the cat caught it , and will scratch out your eyes too .
Rapunzel is lost to you for ever -- you will never see her more . '
The Prince was beside himself with grief , and in his despair he jumped right down from the tower , and , though he escaped with his life , the thorns among which he fell pierced his eyes out .
Then he wandered , blind and miserable , through the wood , eating nothing but roots and berries , and weeping and lamenting the loss of his lovely bride .
So he wandered about for some years , as wretched and unhappy as he could well be , and at last he came to the desert place where Rapunzel was living .
Of a sudden he heard a voice which seemed strangely familiar to him .
He walked eagerly in the direction of the sound , and when he was quite close , Rapunzel recognised him and fell on his neck and wept .
But two of her tears touched his eyes , and in a moment they became quite clear again , and he saw as well as he had ever done .
Then he led her to his kingdom , where they were received and welcomed with great joy , and they lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- Grimm .
THE NETTLE SPINNER I ONCE upon a time there lived at Quesnoy , in Flanders , a great lord whose name was Burchard , but whom the country people called Burchard the Wolf .
Now Burchard had such a wicked , cruel heart , that it was whispered how he used to harness his peasants to the plough , and force them by blows from his whip to till his land with naked feet .
His wife , on the other hand , was always tender and pitiful to the poor and miserable .
Every time that she heard of another misdeed of her husband 's she secretly went to repair the evil , which caused her name to be blessed throughout the whole country-side .
This Countess was adored as much as the Count was hated .
II One day when he was out hunting the Count passed through a forest , and at the door of a lonely cottage he saw a beautiful girl spinning hemp .
` What is your name ? '
he asked her .
` Renelde , my lord . '
` You must get tired of staying in such a lonely place ? ' '
I am accustomed to it , my lord , and I never get tired of it . '
` That may be so ; but come to the castle , and I will make you lady 's maid to the Countess . ' '
I can not do that , my lord .
I have to look after my grandmother , who is very helpless . '
` Come to the castle , I tell you .
I shall expect you this evening , ' and he went on his way .
But Renelde , who was betrothed to a young wood-cutter called Guilbert , had no intention of obeying the Count , and she had , besides , to take care of her grandmother .
Three days later the Count again passed by .
` Why did n't you come ? '
he asked the pretty spinner . '
I told you , my lord , that I have to look after my grandmother . '
` Come to-morrow , and I will make you lady-in-waiting to the Countess , ' and he went on his way .
This offer produced no more effect than the other , and Renelde did not go to the castle .
` If you will only come , ' said the Count to her when next he rode by , ' I will send away the Countess , and will marry you . '
But two years before , when Renelde 's mother was dying of a long illness , the Countess had not forgotten them , but had given help when they sorely needed it .
So even if the Count had really wished to marry Renelde , she would always have refused .
III Some weeks passed before Burchard appeared again .
Renelde hoped she had got rid of him , when one day he stopped at the door , his duck-gun under his arm and his game-bag on his shoulder .
This time Renelde was spinning not hemp , but flax .
` What are you spinning ? '
he asked in a rough voice .
` My wedding shift , my lord . '
` You are going to be married , then ? '
` Yes , my lord , by your leave . '
For at that time no peasant could marry without the leave of his master . '
I will give you leave on one condition .
Do you see those tall nettles that grow on the tombs in the churchyard ?
Go and gather them , and spin them into two fine shifts .
One shall be your bridal shift , and the other shall be my shroud .
For you shall be married the day that I am laid in my grave . '
And the Count turned away with a mocking laugh .
Renelde trembled .
Never in all Locquignol had such a thing been heard of as the spinning of nettles .
And besides , the Count seemed made of iron and was very proud of his strength , often boasting that he should live to be a hundred .
Every evening , when his work was done , Guilbert came to visit his future bride .
This evening he came as usual , and Renelde told him what Burchard had said .
` Would you like me to watch for the Wolf , and split his skull with a blow from my axe ? '
` No , ' replied Renelde , ` there must be no blood on my bridal bouquet .
And then we must not hurt the Count .
Remember how good the Countess was to my mother . '
An old , old woman now spoke : she was the mother of Renelde 's grandmother , and was more than ninety years old .
All day long she sat in her chair nodding her head and never saying a word .
` My children , ' she said , ` all the years that I have lived in the world , I have never heard of a shift spun from nettles .
But what God commands , man can do .
Why should not Renelde try it ? '
IV Renelde did try , and to her great surprise the nettles when crushed and prepared gave a good thread , soft and light and firm .
Very soon she had spun the first shift , which was for her own wedding .
She wove and cut it out at once , hoping that the Count would not force her to begin the other .
Just as she had finished sewing it , Burchard the Wolf passed by .
` Well , ' said he , ` how are the shifts getting on ? '
` Here , my lord , is my wedding garment , ' answered Renelde , showing him the shift , which was the finest and whitest ever seen .
The Count grew pale , but he replied roughly , ` Very good .
Now begin the other . '
The spinner set to work .
As the Count returned to the castle , a cold shiver passed over him , and he felt , as the saying is , that some one was walking over his grave .
He tried to eat his supper , but could not ; he went to bed shaking with fever .
But he did not sleep , and in the morning could not manage to rise .
This sudden illness , which every instant became worse , made him very uneasy .
No doubt Renelde 's spinning-wheel knew all about it .
Was it not necessary that his body , as well as his shroud , should be ready for the burial ?
The first thing Burchard did was to send to Renelde and to stop her wheel .
Renelde obeyed , and that evening Guilbert asked her : ` Has the Count given his consent to our marriage ? '
` No , ' said Renelde .
` Continue your work , sweetheart .
It is the only way of gaining it .
You know he told you so himself . '
V The following morning , as soon as she had put the house in order , the girl sat down to spin .
Two hours after there arrived some soldiers , and when they saw her spinning they seized her , tied her arms and legs , and carried her to the bank of the river , which was swollen by the late rains .
When they reached the bank they flung her in , and watched her sink , after which they left her .
But Renelde rose to the surface , and though she could not swim she struggled to land .
Directly she got home she sat down and began to spin .
Again came the two soldiers to the cottage and seized the girl , carried her to the river bank , tied a stone to her neck and flung her into the water .
The moment their backs were turned the stone untied itself .
Renelde waded the ford , returned to the hut , and sat down to spin .
This time the Count resolved to go to Locquignol himself ; but , as he was very weak and unable to walk , he had himself borne in a litter .
And still the spinner spun .
When he saw her he fired a shot at her , as he would have fired at a wild beast .
The bullet rebounded without harming the spinner , who still spun on .
Burchard fell into such a violent rage that it nearly killed him .
He broke the wheel into a thousand pieces , and then fell fainting on the ground .
He was carried back to the castle , unconscious .
The next day the wheel was mended , and the spinner sat down to spin .
Feeling that while she was spinning he was dying , the Count ordered that her hands should be tied , and that they should not lose sight of her for one instant .
But the guards fell asleep , the bonds loosed themselves , and the spinner spun on .
Burchard had every nettle rooted up for three leagues round .
Scarcely had they been torn from the soil when they sowed themselves afresh , and grew as you were looking at them .
They sprung up even in the well-trodden floor of the cottage , and as fast as they were uprooted the distaff gathered to itself a supply of nettles , crushed , prepared , and ready for spinning .
And every day Burchard grew worse , and watched his end approaching .
VI Moved by pity for her husband , the Countess at last found out the cause of his illness , and entreated him to allow himself to be cured .
But the Count in his pride refused more than ever to give his consent to the marriage .
So the lady resolved to go without his knowledge to pray for mercy from the spinner , and in the name of Renelde 's dead mother she besought her to spin no more .
Renelde gave her promise , but in the evening Guilbert arrived at the cottage .
Seeing that the cloth was no farther advanced than it was the evening before , he inquired the reason .
Renelde confessed that the Countess had prayed her not to let her husband die .
` Will he consent to our marriage ? '
` No . '
` Let him die then . '
` But what will the Countess say ? '
` The Countess will understand that it is not your fault ; the Count alone is guilty of his own death . '
` Let us wait a little .
Perhaps his heart may be softened . '
So they waited for one month , for two , for six , for a year .
The spinner spun no more .
The Count had ceased to persecute her , but he still refused his consent to the marriage .
Guilbert became impatient .
The poor girl loved him with her whole soul , and she was more unhappy than she had been before , when Burchard was only tormenting her body .
` Let us have done with it , ' said Guilbert .
` Wait a little still , ' pleaded Renelde .
But the young man grew weary .
He came more rarely to Locquignol , and very soon he did not come at all .
Renelde felt as if her heart would break , but she held firm .
One day she met the Count .
She clasped her hands as if in prayer , and cried : ` My lord , have mercy ! '
Burchard the Wolf turned away his head and passed on .
She might have humbled his pride had she gone to her spinning-wheel again , but she did nothing of the sort .
Not long after she learnt that Guilbert had left the country .
He did not even come to say good-bye to her , but , all the same , she knew the day and hour of his departure , and hid herself on the road to see him once more .
When she came in she put her silent wheel into a corner , and cried for three days and three nights .
VII So another year went by .
Then the Count fell ill , and the Countess supposed that Renelde , weary of waiting , had begun her spinning anew ; but when she came to the cottage to see , she found the wheel silent .
However , the Count grew worse and worse till he was given up by the doctors .
The passing bell was rung , and he lay expecting Death to come for him .
But Death was not so near as the doctors thought , and still he lingered .
He seemed in a desperate condition , but he got neither better nor worse .
He could neither live nor die ; he suffered horribly , and called loudly on Death to put an end to his pains .
In this extremity he remembered what he had told the little spinner long ago .
If Death was so slow in coming , it was because he was not ready to follow him , having no shroud for his burial .
He sent to fetch Renelde , placed her by his bedside , and ordered her at once to go on spinning his shroud .
Hardly had the spinner begun to work when the Count began to feel his pains grow less .
Then at last his heart melted ; he was sorry for all the evil he had done out of pride , and implored Renelde to forgive him .
So Renelde forgave him , and went on spinning night and day .
When the thread of the nettles was spun she wove it with her shuttle , and then cut the shroud and began to sew it .
And as before , when she sewed the Count felt his pains grow less , and the life sinking within him , and when the needle made the last stitch he gave his last sigh .
VIII At the same hour Guilbert returned to the country , and , as he had never ceased to love Renelde , he married her eight days later .
He had lost two years of happiness , but comforted himself with thinking that his wife was a clever spinner , and , what was much more rare , a brave and good woman .
-LRB- 24 -RRB- -LRB- 24 -RRB- Ch .
Denlin .
FARMER WEATHERBEARD THERE was once upon a time a man and a woman who had an only son , and he was called Jack .
The woman thought that it was his duty to go out to service , and told her husband that he was to take him somewhere .
` You must get him such a good place that he will become master of all masters , ' she said , and then she put some food and a roll of tobacco into a bag for them .
Well , they went to a great many masters , but all said that they could make the lad as good as they were themselves , but better than that they could not make him .
When the man came home to the old woman with this answer , she said , ' I shall be equally well pleased whatever you do with him ; but this I do say , that you are to have him made a master over all masters . '
Then she once more put some food and a roll of tobacco into the bag , and the man and his son had to set out again .
When they had walked some distance they got upon the ice , and there they met a man in a carriage who was driving a black horse .
` Where are you going ? '
he said . '
I have to go and get my son apprenticed to someone who will be able to teach him a trade , for my old woman comes of such well-to-do folk that she insists on his being taught to be master of all masters , ' said the man .
` We are not ill met , then , ' said the man who was driving , ` for I am the kind of man who can do that , and I am just looking out for such an apprentice .
Get up behind with you , ' he said to the boy , and off the horse went with them straight up into the air .
` No , no , wait a little ! '
screamed the father of the boy . '
I ought to know what your name is and where you live . '
` Oh , I am at home both in the north and the south and the east and the west , and I am called Farmer Weatherbeard , ' said the master .
` You may come here again in a year 's time , and then I will tell you if the lad suits me . '
And then they set off again and were gone .
When the man got home the old woman inquired what had become of the son .
` Ah !
Heaven only knows what has become of him ! '
said the man .
` They went up aloft . '
And then he told her what had happened .
But when the woman heard that , and found that the man did not at all know either when their son would be out of his apprentice-ship , or where he had gone , she packed him off again to find out , and gave him a bag of food and a roll of tobacco to take away with him .
When he had walked for some time he came to a great wood , and it stretched before him all day long as he went on , and when night began to fall he saw a great light , and went towards it .
After a long , long time he came to a small hut at the foot of a rock , outside which an old woman was standing drawing water up from a well with her nose , it was so long .
` Good-evening , mother , ' said the man .
` Good-evening to you too , ' said the old woman .
` No one has called me mother this hundred years . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
said the man .
` No , ' said the old woman .
But the man took out his roll of tobacco , lighted a little of it , and then gave her a whiff .
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and thus the man got leave to stay the night there .
It was not long before he asked about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She said that she knew nothing about him , but that she ruled over all the four-footed beasts , and some of them might know him .
So she gathered them all together by blowing a whistle which she had , and questioned them , but there was not one of them which knew anything about Farmer Weatherbeard .
` Well , ' said the old woman , ` there are three of us sisters ; it may be that one of the other two knows where he is to be found .
You shall have the loan of my horse and carriage , and then you will get there by night ; but her house is three hundred miles off , go the nearest way you will . '
The man set out and got there at night .
When he arrived , this old woman also was standing drawing water out of the well with her nose .
` Good-evening , mother , ' said the man .
` Good-evening to you , ' said the old woman .
` No one has ever called me mother this hundred years . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
said the man .
` No , ' said the old woman .
Then he took out the roll of tobacco , took a whiff , and gave the old woman some snuff on the back of her hand .
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and the man got leave to stay all night .
It was not long before he began to ask about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She knew nothing about him , but she ruled over all the fishes , she said , and perhaps some of them might know something .
So she gathered them all together by blowing a whistle which she had , and questioned them , but there was not one of them which knew anything about Farmer Weatherbeard .
` Well , ' said the old woman , ' I have another sister ; perhaps she may know something about him .
She lives six hundred miles off , but you shall have my horse and carriage , and then you will get there by nightfall . '
So the man set off and he got there by nightfall .
The old woman was standing raking the fire , and she was doing it with her nose , so long it was .
` Good-evening , mother , ' said the man .
` Good-evening to you , ' said the old woman .
` No one has called me mother this hundred years . '
` Can I lodge here to-night ? '
said the man .
` No , ' said the old woman .
But the man pulled out his roll of tobacco again , and filled his pipe with some of it , and gave the old woman enough snuff to cover the back of her hand .
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and the man got leave to stay in her house .
It was not long before he asked about Farmer Weatherbeard .
She knew nothing at all about him , she said , but she governed all the birds ; and she gathered them together with her whistle .
When she questioned them all , the eagle was not there , but it came soon afterwards , and when asked , it said that it had just come from Farmer Weatherbeard 's .
Then the old woman said that it was to guide the man to him .
But the eagle would have something to eat first , and then it wanted to wait until the next day , for it was so tired with the long journey that it was scarcely able to rise from the earth .
When the eagle had had plenty of food and rest , the old woman plucked a feather out of its tail , and set the man in the feather 's place , and then the bird flew away with him , but they did not get to Farmer Weatherbeard 's before midnight .
When they got there the Eagle said : ` There are a great many dead bodies lying outside the door , but you must not concern yourself about them .
The people who are inside the house are all so sound asleep that it will not be easy to awake them ; but you must go straight to the table-drawer , and take out three bits of bread , and if you hear anyone snoring , pluck three feathers from his head ; he will not waken for that . '
The man did this ; when he had got the bits of bread he first plucked out one feather .
` Oof ! '
screamed Farmer Weatherbeard .
So the man plucked out another , and then Farmer Weatherbeard shrieked ` Oof ! '
again ; but when the man had plucked the third , Farmer Weatherbeard screamed so loudly that the man thought that brick and mortar would be rent in twain , but for all that he went on sleeping .
And now the Eagle told the man what he was to do next , and he did it .
He went to the stable door , and there he stumbled against a hard stone , which he picked up , and beneath it lay three splinters of wood , which he also picked up .
He knocked at the stable door and it opened at once .
He threw down the three little bits of bread and a hare came out and ate them .
He caught the hare .
Then the Eagle told him to pluck three feathers out of its tail , and put in the hare , the stone , the splinters of wood and himself instead of them , and then he would be able to carry them all home .
When the Eagle had flown a long way it alighted on a stone .
` Do you see anything ? '
it asked .
` Yes ; I see a flock of crows coming flying after us , ' said the man .
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' said the Eagle , and off it set .
In a short time it asked again , ` Do you see anything now ? '
` Yes ; now the crows are close behind us , ' said the man .
` Then throw down the three feathers which you plucked out of his head , ' said the Eagle .
So the man did this , and no sooner had he flung them down than the feathers became a flock of ravens , which chased the crows home again .
Then the Eagle flew on much farther with the man , but at length it alighted on a stone for a while .
` Do you see anything ? '
it said . '
I am not quite certain , ' said the man , ` but I think I see something coming in the far distance . '
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' said the Eagle , and away it went .
` Do you see anything now ? '
it said , after some time had gone by .
` Yes ; now they are close behind us , ' said the man .
` Then throw down the splinters of wood which you took from beneath the gray stone by the stable door , ' said the Eagle .
The man did this , and no sooner had he flung them down than they grew up into a great thick wood , and Farmer Weatherbeard had to go home for an axe to cut his way through it .
So the Eagle flew on a long , long way , but then it grew tired and sat down on a fir tree .
` Do you see anything ? '
it asked .
` Yes ; I am not quite certain , ' said the man , ` but I think I can catch a glimpse of something far , far away . '
` Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , ' said the Eagle , and it set off again .
` Do you see anything now ? '
it said after some time had gone by .
` Yes ; he is close behind us now , ' said the man .
` Then you must fling down the great stone which you took away from the stable door , ' said the Eagle .
The man did so , and it turned into a great high mountain of stone , which Farmer Weatherbeard had to break his way through before he could follow them .
But when he had got to the middle of the mountain he broke one of his legs , so he had to go home to get it put right .
While he was doing this the Eagle flew off to the man 's home with him , and with the hare , and when they had got home the man went to the churchyard , and had some Christian earth laid upon the hare , and then it turned into his son Jack .
When the time came for the fair the youth turned himself into a light-coloured horse , and bade his father go to the market with him .
` If anyone should come who wants to buy me , ' said he , ` you are to tell him that you want a hundred dollars for me ; but you must not forget to take off the halter , for if you do I shall never be able to get away from Farmer Weatherbeard , for he is the man who will come and bargain for me . '
And thus it happened .
A horse-dealer came who had a great fancy to bargain for the horse , and the man got a hundred dollars for it , but when the bargain was made , and Jack 's father had got the money , the horse-dealer wanted to have the halter .
` That was no part of our bargain , ' said the man , ` and the halter you shall not have , for I have other horses which I shall have to sell . '
So each of them went his way .
But the horse dealer had not got very far with Jack before he resumed his own form again , and when the man got home he was sitting on the bench by the stove .
The next day he changed himself into a brown horse and told his father that he was to set off to market with him .
` If a man should come who wants to buy me , ' said Jack , ` you are to tell him that you want two hundred dollars , for that he will give , and treat you besides ; but whatsoever you drink , and whatsoever you do , do n't forget to take the halter off me , or you will never see me more . '
And thus it happened .
The man got his two hundred dollars for the horse , and was treated as well , and when they parted from each other it was just as much as he could do to remember to take off the halter .
But the buyer had not got far on his way before the youth took his own form again , and when the man reached home Jack was already sitting on the bench by the stove .
On the third day all happened in the same way .
The youth changed himself into a great black horse , and told his father that if a man came and offered him three hundred dollars , and treated him well and handsomely into the bargain , he was to sell him , but whatsoever he did , or how much soever he drank , he must not forget to take off the halter , or else he himself would never get away from Farmer Weatherbeard as long as he lived .
` No , ' said the man , ' I will not forget . '
When he got to the market , he received the three hundred dollars , but Farmer Weatherbeard treated him so handsomely that he quite forgot to take off the halter ; so Farmer Weatherbeard went away with the horse .
When he had got some distance he had to go into an inn to get some more brandy ; so he set a barrel full of red-hot nails under his horse 's nose , and a trough filled with oats beneath its tail , and then he tied the halter fast to a hook and went away into the inn .
So the horse stood there stamping , and kicking , and snorting , and rearing , and out came a girl who thought it a sin and a shame to treat a horse so ill .
` Ah , poor creature , what a master you must have to treat you thus ! '
she said , and pushed the halter off the hook so that the horse might turn round and eat the oats . '
I am here ! '
shrieked Farmer Weatherbeard , rushing out of doors .
But the horse had already shaken off the halter and flung himself into a goose-pond , where he changed himself into a little fish .
Farmer Weatherbeard went after him , and changed himself into a great pike .
So Jack turned himself into a dove , and Farmer Weatherbeard turned himself into a hawk , and flew after the dove and struck it .
But a Princess was standing at a window in the King 's palace watching the struggle .
` If thou didst but know as much as I know , thou wouldst fly in to me through the window , ' said the Princess to the dove .
So the dove came flying in through the window and changed itself into Jack again , and told her all as it had happened .
` Change thyself into a gold ring , and set thyself on my finger , ' said the Princess .
` No , that will not do , ' said Jack , ` for then Farmer Weatherbeard will make the King fall sick , and there will be no one who can make him well again before Farmer Weatherbeard comes and cures him , and for that he will demand the gold ring . ' '
I will say that it was my mother 's , and that I will not part with it , ' said the Princess .
So Jack changed himself into a gold ring , and set himself on the Princess 's finger , and Farmer Weatherbeard could not get at him there .
But then all that the youth had foretold came to pass .
The King became ill , and there was no doctor who could cure him till Farmer Weatherbeard arrived , and he demanded the ring which was on the Princess 's finger as a reward .
So the King sent a messenger to the Princess for the ring .
She , however , refused to part with it , because she had inherited it from her mother .
When the King was informed of this he fell into a rage , and said that he would have the ring , let her have inherited it from whom she might .
` Well , it 's of no use to be angry about it , ' said the Princess , ` for I ca n't get it off .
If you want the ring you will have to take the finger too ! ' '
I will try , and then the ring will very soon come off , ' said Farmer Weatherbeard .
` No , thank you , I will try myself , ' said the Princess , and she went away to the fireplace and put some ashes on the ring .
So the ring came off and was lost among the ashes .
Farmer Weatherbeard changed himself into a hare , which scratched and scraped about in the fireplace after the ring until the ashes were up to its ears .
But Jack changed himself into a fox , and bit the hare 's head off , and if Farmer Weatherbeard was possessed by the evil one all was now over with him .
-LRB- 25 -RRB- -LRB- 25 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
MOTHER HOLLE ONCE upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters ; one of them was pretty and clever , and the other ugly and lazy .
But as the ugly one was her own daughter , she liked her far the best of the two , and the pretty one had to do all the work of the house , and was in fact the regular maid of all work .
Every day she had to sit by a well on the high road , and spin till her fingers were so sore that they often bled .
One day some drops of blood fell on her spindle , so she dipped it into the well meaning to wash it , but , as luck would have it , it dropped from her hand and fell right in .
She ran weeping to her stepmother , and told her what had happened , but she scolded her harshly , and was so merciless in her anger that she said : ` Well , since you 've dropped the spindle down , you must just go after it yourself , and do n't let me see your face again until you bring it with you . '
Then the poor girl returned to the well , and not knowing what she was about , in the despair and misery of her heart she sprang into the well and sank to the bottom .
For a time she lost all consciousness , and when she came to herself again she was lying in a lovely meadow , with the sun shining brightly overhead , and a thousand flowers blooming at her feet .
She rose up and wandered through this enchanted place , till she came to a baker 's oven full of bread , and the bread called out to her as she passed : ` Oh !
take me out , take me out , or I shall be burnt to a cinder .
I am quite done enough . '
So she stepped up quickly to the oven and took out all the loaves one after the other .
Then she went on a little farther and came to a tree laden with beautiful rosy-cheeked apples , and as she passed by it called out : ` Oh I shake me , shake me , my apples are all quite ripe . '
She did as she was asked , and shook the tree till the apples fell like rain and none were left hanging .
When she had gathered them all up into a heap she went on her way again , and came at length to a little house , at the door of which sat an old woman .
The old dame had such large teeth that the girl felt frightened and wanted to run away , but the old woman called after her : ` What are you afraid of , dear child ?
Stay with me and be my little maid , and if you do your work well I will reward you handsomely ; but you must be very careful how you make my bed -- you must shake it well till the feathers fly ; then people in the world below say it snows , for I am Mother Holle . '
She spoke so kindly that the girl took heart and agreed readily to enter her service .
She did her best to please the old woman , and shook her bed with such a will that the feathers flew about like snow-flakes ; so she led a very easy life , was never scolded , and lived on the fat of the land .
But after she had been some time with Mother Holle she grew sad and depressed , and at first she hardly knew herself what was the matter .
At last she discovered that she was homesick , so she went to Mother Holle and said : ' I know I am a thousand times better off here than I ever was in my life before , but notwithstanding , I have a great longing to go home , in spite of all your kindness to me .
I can remain with you no longer , but must return to my own people . '
` Your desire to go home pleases me , ' said Mother Holle , ` and because you have served me so faithfully , I will show you the way back into the world myself . '
So she took her by the hand and led her to an open door , and as the girl passed through it there fell a heavy shower of gold all over her , till she was covered with it from top to toe .
` That 's a reward for being such a good little maid , ' said Mother Holle , and she gave her the spindle too that had fallen into the well .
Then she shut the door , and the girl found herself back in the world again , not far from her own house ; and when she came to the courtyard the old hen , who sat on the top of the wall , called out : ` Click , clock , clack , Our golden maid 's come back . '
Then she went in to her stepmother , and as she had returned covered with gold she was welcomed home .
She proceeded to tell all that had happened to her , and when the mother heard how she had come by her riches , she was most anxious to secure the same luck for her own idle , ugly daughter ; so she told her to sit at the well and spin .
In order to make her spindle bloody , she stuck her hand into a hedge of thorns and pricked her finger .
Then she threw the spindle into the well , and jumped in herself after it .
Like her sister she came to the beautiful meadow , and followed the same path .
When she reached the baker 's oven the bread called out as before : ` Oh !
take me out , take me out , or I shall be burnt to a cinder .
I am quite done enough . '
But the good-for-nothing girl answered : ' A pretty joke , indeed ; just as if I should dirty my hands for you ! '
And on she went .
Soon she came to the apple tree , which cried : ` Oh !
shake me , shake me , my apples are all quite ripe . '
` I 'll see myself farther , ' she replied , ` one of them might fall on my head . '
And so she pursued her way .
When she came to Mother Holle 's house she was n't the least afraid , for she had been warned about her big teeth , and she readily agreed to become her maid .
The first day she worked very hard , and did all her mistress told her , for she thought of the gold she would give her ; but on the second day she began to be lazy , and on the third she would n't even get up in the morning .
She did n't make Mother Holle 's bed as she ought to have done , and never shook it enough to make the feathers fly .
So her mistress soon grew weary of her , and dismissed her , much to the lazy creature 's delight .
` For now , ' she thought , ` the shower of golden rain will come . '
Mother Holle led her to the same door as she had done her sister , but when she passed through it , instead of the gold rain a kettle full of pitch came showering over her .
` That 's a reward for your service , ' said Mother Holle , and she closed the door behind her .
So the lazy girl came home all covered with pitch , and when the old hen on the top of the wall saw her , it called out : ` Click , clock , clack , Our dirty slut 's come back . '
But the pitch remained sticking to her , and never as long as she lived could it be got off .
-LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- Grimm .
MINNIKIN THERE was once upon a time a couple of needy folk who lived in a wretched hut , in which there was nothing but black want ; so they had neither food to eat nor wood to burn .
But if they had next to nothing of all else they had the blessing of God so far as children were concerned , and every year brought them one more .
The man was not overpleased at this .
He was always going about grumbling and growling , and saying that it seemed to him that there might be such a thing as having too many of these good gifts ; so shortly before another baby was born he went away into the wood for some firewood , saying that he did not want to see the new child ; he would hear him quite soon enough when he began to squall for some food .
As soon as this baby was born it began to look about the room .
` Ah , my dear mother ! '
said he , ` give me some of my brothers ' old clothes , and food enough for a few days , and I will go out into the world and seek my fortune , for , so far as I can see , you have children enough . '
` Heaven help thee , my son ! '
said the mother , ` that will never do ; thou art still far too little . '
But the little creature was determined to do it , and begged and prayed so long that the mother was forced to let him have some old rags , and tie up a little food for him , and then gaily and happily he went out into the world .
But almost before he was out of the house another boy was born , and he too looked about him , and said , ` Ah , my dear mother !
give me some of my brothers ' old clothes , and food for some days , and then I will go out into the world and find my twin brother , for you have children enough . '
` Heaven help thee , little creature !
thou art far too little for that , ' said the woman ; ` it would never do . '
But she spoke to no purpose , for the boy begged and prayed until he had got some old rags and a bundle of provisions , and then he set out manfully into the world to find his twin brother .
When the younger had walked for some time he caught sight of his brother a short distance in front of him , and called to him and bade him to stop .
` Wait a minute , ' he said ; ` you are walking as if for a wager , but you ought to have stayed to see your younger brother before you hurried off into the world . '
So the elder stood still and looked back , and when the younger had got up to him , and had told him that he was his brother , he said : ` But now , let us sit down and see what kind of food our mother has given us , ' and that they did .
When they had walked on a little farther they came to a brook which ran through a green meadow , and there the younger said that they ought to christen each other .
` As we had to make such haste , and had no time to do it at home , we may as well do it here , ' said he .
` What will you be called ? '
asked the elder . '
I will be called Minnikin , ' answered the second ; ` and you , what will you be called ? ' '
I will be called King Pippin , ' answered the elder .
They christened each other and then went onwards .
When they had walked for some time they came to a crossway , and there they agreed to part , and each take his own road .
This they did , but no sooner had they walked a short distance than they met again .
So they parted once more , and each took his own road , but in a very short time the same thing happened again -- they met each other before they were at all aware , and so it happened the third time also .
Then they arranged with each other that each should choose his own quarter , and one should go east and the other west .
` But if ever you fall into any need or trouble , ' said the elder , ` call me thrice , and I will come and help you ; only you must not call me until you are in the utmost need . '
` In that case we shall not see each other for some time , ' said Minnikin ; so they bade farewell to each other , and Minnikin went east and King Pippin went west .
When Minnikin had walked a long way alone , he met an old , old crook-backed hag , who had only one eye .
Minnikin stole it .
` Oh !
oh ! '
cried the old hag , ` what has become of my eye ? '
` What will you give me to get your eye back ? '
said Minnikin . '
I will give thee a sword which is such a sword that it can conquer a whole army , let it be ever so great , ' replied the woman .
` Let me have it , then , ' said Minnikin .
The old hag gave him the sword , so she got her eye back .
Then Minnikin went onwards , and when he had wandered on for some time he again met an old , old crook-backed hag , who had only one eye .
Minnikin stole it before she was aware .
` Oh !
oh !
what has become of my eye ? '
cried the old hag .
` What will you give me to get your eye back ? '
said Minnikin . '
I will give thee a ship which can sail over fresh water and salt water , over high hills and deep dales , ' answered the old woman .
` Let me have it then , ' said Minnikin .
So the old woman gave him a little bit of a ship which was no bigger than he could put in his pocket , and then she got her eye back , and she went her way and Minnikin his .
When he had walked on for a long time , he met for the third time an old , old crook-backed hag , who had only one eye .
This eye also Minnikin stole , and when the woman screamed and lamented , and asked what had become of her eye , Minnikin said , ` What will you give me to get your eye back ? ' '
I will give thee the art to brew a hundred lasts of malt in one brewing . '
So , for teaching that art , the old hag got her eye back , and they both went away by different roads .
But when Minnikin had walked a short distance , it seemed to him that it might be worth while to see what his ship could do ; so he took it out of his pocket , and first he put one foot into it , and then the other , and no sooner had he put one foot into the ship than it became much larger , and when he set the other foot into it , it grew as large as ships that sail on the sea .
Then Minnikin said : ` Now go over fresh water and salt water , over high hills and deep dales , and do not stop until thou comest to the King 's palace . '
And in an instant the ship went away as swiftly as any bird in the air till it got just below the King 's palace , and there it stood still .
From the windows of the King 's palace many persons had seen Minnikin come sailing thither , and had stood to watch him ; and they were all so astounded that they ran down to see what manner of man this could be who came sailing in a ship through the air .
But while they were running down from the King 's palace , Minnikin had got out of the ship and had put it in his pocket again ; for the moment he got out of it , it once more became as small as it had been when he got it from the old woman , and those who came from the King 's palace could see nothing but a ragged little boy who was standing down by the sea-shore .
The King asked where he had come from , but the boy said he did not know , nor yet could he tell them how he had got there , but he begged very earnestly and prettily for a place in the King 's palace .
If there was nothing else for him to do , he said he would fetch wood and water for the kitchen-maid , and that he obtained leave to do .
When Minnikin went up to the King 's palace he saw that everything there was hung with black both outside and inside , from the bottom to the top ; so he asked the kitchen-maid what that meant .
` Oh , I will tell you that , ' answered the kitchen-maid .
` The King 's daughter was long ago promised away to three Trolls , and next Thursday evening one of them is to come to fetch her .
Ritter Red has said that he will be able to set her free , but who knows whether he will be able to do it ?
so you may easily imagine what grief and distress we are in here . '
So when Thursday evening came , Ritter Red accompanied the Princess to the sea-shore ; for there she was to meet the Troll , and Ritter Red was to stay with her and protect her .
He , however , was very unlikely to do the Troll much injury , for no sooner had the Princess seated herself by the sea-shore than Ritter Red climbed up into a great tree which was standing there , and hid himself as well as he could among the branches .
The Princess wept , and begged him most earnestly not to go and leave her ; but Ritter Red did not concern himself about that .
` It is better that one should die than two , ' said he .
In the meantime Minnikin begged the kitchen-maid very prettily to give him leave to go down to the strand for a short time .
` Oh , what could you do down at the strand ? '
said the kitchen-maid .
` You have nothing to do there . '
` Oh yes , my dear , just let me go , ' said Minnikin . '
I should so like to go and amuse myself with the other children . '
` Well , well , go then ! '
said the kitchen-maid , ` but do n't let me find you staying there over the time when the pan has to be set on the fire for supper , and the roast put on the spit ; and mind you bring back a good big armful of wood for the kitchen . '
Minnikin promised this , and ran down to the sea-shore .
Just as he got to the place where the King 's daughter was sitting , the Troll came rushing up with a great whistling and whirring , and he was so big and stout that he was terrible to see , and he had five heads .
` Fire ! '
screeched the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
said Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
roared the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' said Minnikin .
So the Troll struck at him with a great thick iron bar which he had in his fist , till the sods flew five yards up into the air .
` Fie ! '
said Minnikin .
` That was not much of a blow .
Now you shall see one of mine . '
So he grasped the sword which he had got from the old crook-backed woman , and slashed at the Troll so that all five heads went flying away over the sands .
When the Princess saw that she was delivered she was so delighted that she did not know what she was doing , and skipped and danced .
` Come and sleep a bit with your head in my lap , ' she said to Minnikin , and as he slept she put a golden dress on him .
But when Ritter Red saw that there was no longer any danger afoot , he lost no time in creeping down from the tree .
He then threatened the Princess , until at length she was forced to promise to say that it was he who had rescued her , for he told her that if she did not he would kill her .
Then he took the Troll 's lungs and tongue and put them in his pocket-handkerchief , and led the Princess back to the King 's palace ; and whatsoever had been lacking to him in the way of honour before was lacking no longer , for the King did not know how to exalt him enough , and always set him on his own right hand at table .
As for Minnikin , first he went out on the Troll 's ship and took a great quantity of gold and silver hoops away with him , and then he trotted back to the King 's palace .
When the kitchen-maid caught sight of all this gold and silver she was quite amazed , and said : ` My dear friend Minnikin , where have you got all that from ? '
for she was half afraid that he had not come by it honestly .
` Oh , ' answered Minnikin , ' I have been home a while , and these hoops had fallen off some of our buckets , so I brought them away with me for you . '
So when the kitchen-maid heard that they were for her , she asked no more questions about the matter .
She thanked Minnikin , and everything was right again at once .
Next Thursday evening all went just the same , and everyone was full of grief and affliction , but Ritter Red said that he had been able to deliver the King 's daughter from one Troll , so that he could very easily deliver her from another , and he led her down to the sea-shore .
But he did not do much harm to this Troll either , for when the time came when the Troll might be expected , he said as he had said before : ` It is better that one should die than two , ' and then climbed up into the tree again .
Minnikin once more begged the cook 's leave to go down to the sea-shore for a short time .
` Oh , what can you do there ? '
said the cook .
` My dear , do let me go ! '
said Minnikin ; ' I should so like to go down there and amuse myself a little with the other children . '
So this time also she said that he should have leave to go , but he must first promise that he would be back by the time the joint was turned and that he would bring a great armful of wood with him .
No sooner had Minnikin got down to the strand than the Troll came rushing along with a great whistling and whirring , and he was twice as big as the first Troll , and he had ten heads .
` Fire ! '
shrieked the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
said Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
roared the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' said Minnikin .
So the Troll struck at him with his iron club -- which was still bigger than that which the first Troll had had -- so that the earth flew ten yards up in the air .
` Fie ! '
said Minnikin .
` That was not much of a blow .
Now you shall see one of my blows . '
Then he grasped his sword and struck at the Troll , so that all his ten heads danced away over the sands .
And again the King 's daughter said to him , ` Sleep a while on my lap , ' and while Minnikin lay there she drew some silver raiment over him .
As soon as Ritter Red saw that there was no longer any danger afoot , he crept down from the tree and threatened the Princess , until at last she was again forced to promise to say that it was he who had rescued her ; after which he took the tongue and the lungs of the Troll and put them in his pocket-handkerchief , and then he conducted the Princess back to the palace .
There was joy and gladness in the palace , as may be imagined , and the King did not know how to show enough honour and respect to Ritter Red .
Minnikin , however , took home with him an armful of gold and silver hoops from the Troll 's ship .
When he came back to the King 's palace the kitchen-maid clapped her hands and wondered where he could have got all that gold and silver ; but Minnikin answered that he had been home for a short time , and that it was only the hoops which had fallen off some pails , and that he had brought them away for the kitchen-maid .
When the third Thursday evening came , everything happened exactly as it had happened on the two former occasions .
Everything in the King 's palace was hung with black , and everyone was sorrowful and distressed ; but Ritter Red said that he did not think that they had much reason to be afraid -- he had delivered the King 's daughter from two Trolls , so he could easily deliver her from the third as well .
He led her down to the strand , but when the time drew near for the Troll to come , he climbed up into the tree again and hid himself .
The Princess wept and entreated him to stay , but all to no purpose .
He stuck to his old speech , ` It is better that one life should be lost than two . '
This evening also , Minnikin begged for leave to go down to the sea-shore .
` Oh , what can you do there ? '
answered the kitchen-maid .
However , he begged until at last he got leave to go , but he was forced to promise that he would be back again in the kitchen when the roast had to be turned .
Almost immediately after he had got down to the sea-shore the Troll came with a great whizzing and whirring , and he was much , much bigger than either of the two former ones , and he had fifteen heads .
` Fire ! '
roared the Troll .
` Fire yourself ! '
said Minnikin .
` Can you fight ? '
screamed the Troll .
` If not , I can learn , ' said Minnikin . '
I will teach you , ' yelled the Troll , and struck at him with his iron club so that the earth flew up fifteen yards high into the air .
` Fie ! '
said Minnikin .
` That was not much of a blow .
Now I will let you see one of my blows . '
So saying he grasped his sword , and cut at the Troll in such a way that all his fifteen heads danced away over the sands .
Then the Princess was delivered , and she thanked Minnikin and blessed him for saving her .
` Sleep a while now on my lap , ' said she , and while he lay there she put a garment of brass upon him .
` But now , how shall we have it made known that it was you who saved me ? '
said the King 's daughter .
` That I will tell you , ' answered Minnikin .
` When Ritter Red has taken you home again , and given out that it was he who rescued you , he will , as you know , have you to wife , and half the kingdom .
But when they ask you on your wedding-day whom you will have to be your cup-bearer , you must say , `` I will have the ragged boy who is in the kitchen , and carries wood and water for the kitchen-maid ; '' and when I am filling your cups for you , I will spill a drop upon his plate but none upon yours , and then he will be angry and strike me , and this will take place thrice .
But the third time you must say , `` Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of mine heart .
It is he who delivered me from the Troll , and he is the one whom I will have . '' '
Then Minnikin ran back to the King 's palace as he had done before , but first he went on board the Troll 's ship and took a great quantity of gold and silver and other precious things , and out of these he once more gave to the kitchen-maid a whole armful of gold and silver hoops .
No sooner did Ritter Red see that all danger was over than he crept down from the tree , and threatened the King 's daughter till he made her promise to say that he had rescued her .
Then he conducted her back to the King 's palace , and if honour enough had not been done him before it was certainly done now , for the King had no other thought than how to make much of the man who had saved his daughter from the three Trolls ; and it was settled then that Ritter Red should marry her , and receive half the kingdom .
On the wedding-day , however , the Princess begged that she might have the little boy who was in the kitchen , and carried wood and water for the kitchen-maid , to fill the wine-cups at the wedding feast .
` Oh , what can you want with that dirty , ragged boy , in here ? '
said Ritter Red , but the Princess said that she insisted on having him as cup-bearer and would have no one else ; and at last she got leave , and then everything was done as had been agreed on between the Princess and Minnikin .
He spilt a drop on Ritter Red 's plate but none upon hers , and each time that he did it Ritter Red fell into a rage and struck him .
At the first blow all the ragged garments which he had worn in the kitchen fell from off Minnikin , at the second blow the brass garments fell off , and at the third the silver raiment , and there he stood in the golden raiment , which was so bright and splendid that light flashed from it .
Then the King 's daughter said : ` Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of my heart .
It is he who delivered me from the Troll , and he is the one whom I will have . '
Ritter Red swore that he was the man who had saved her , but the King said : ` He who delivered my daughter must have some token in proof of it . '
So Ritter Red ran off at once for his handkerchief with the lungs and tongue , and Minnikin went and brought all the gold and silver and precious things which he had taken out of the Trolls ' ships ; and they each of them laid these tokens before the King .
` He who has such precious things in gold and silver and diamonds , ' said the King , ` must be the one who killed the Troll , for such things are not to be had anywhere else . '
So Ritter Red was thrown into the snake-pit , and Minnikin was to have the Princess , and half the kingdom .
One day the King went out walking with Minnikin , and Minnikin asked him if he had never had any other children .
` Yes , ' said the King , ' I had another daughter , but the Troll carried her away because there was no one who could deliver her .
You are going to have one daughter of mine , but if you can set free the other , who has been taken by the Troll , you shall willingly have her too , and the other half of the kingdom as well . ' '
I may as well make the attempt , ' said Minnikin , ` but I must have an iron rope which is five hundred ells long , and then I must have five hundred men with me , and provisions for five weeks , for I have a long voyage before me . '
So the King said he should have these things , but the King was afraid that he had no ship large enough to carry them all .
` But I have a ship of my own , ' said Minnikin , and he took the one which the old woman had given him out of his pocket .
The King laughed at him and thought that it was only one of his jokes , but Minnikin begged him just to give him what he had asked for , and then he should see something .
Then all that Minnikin had asked for was brought ; and first he ordered them to lay the cable in the ship , but there was no one who was able to lift it , and there was only room for one or two men at a time in the little bit of a ship .
Then Minnikin himself took hold of the cable , and laid one or two links of it into the ship , and as he threw the links into it the ship grew bigger and bigger , and at last it was so large that the cable , and the five hundred men , and provisions , and Minnikin himself , had room enough .
` Now go over fresh water and salt water , over hill and dale , and do not stop until thou comest to where the King 's daughter is , ' said Minnikin to the ship , and off it went in a moment over land and water till the wind whistled and moaned all round about it .
When they had sailed thus a long , long way , the ship stopped short in the middle of the sea .
` Ah , now we have got there , ' said Minnikin , ` but how we are to get back again is a very different thing . '
Then he took the cable and tied one end of it round his body .
` Now I must go to the bottom , ' he said , ` but when I give a good jerk to the cable and want to come up again , you must all pull like one man , or there will be an end of all life both for you and for me . '
So saying he sprang into the water , and yellow bubbles rose up all around him .
He sank lower and lower , and at last he came to the bottom .
There he saw a large hill with a door in it , and in he went .
When he had got inside he found the other Princess sitting sewing , but when she saw Minnikin she clapped her hands .
` Ah , heaven be praised ! '
she cried , ' I have not seen a Christian man since I came here . ' '
I have come for you , ' said Minnikin .
` Alas !
you will not be able to get me , ' said the King 's daughter .
` It is no use even to think of that ; if the Troll catches sight of you he will take your life . '
` You had better tell me about him , ' said Minnikin .
` Where is he gone ?
It would be amusing to see him . '
So the King 's daughter told Minnikin that the Troll was out trying to get hold of someone who could brew a hundred lasts of malt at one brewing , for there was to be a feast at the Troll 's , at which less than that would not be drunk . '
I can do that , ' said Minnikin .
` Ah !
if only the Troll were not so quick-tempered I might have told him that , ' answered the Princess , ` but he is so ill-natured that he will tear you to pieces , I fear , as soon as he comes in .
But I will try to find some way of doing it .
Can you hide yourself here in the cupboard ?
and then we will see what happens . '
Minnikin did this , and almost before he had crept into the cupboard and hidden himself , came the Troll .
` Huf !
What a smell of Christian man 's blood ! '
said the Troll .
` Yes , a bird flew over the roof with a Christian man 's bone in his bill , and let it fall down our chimney , ' answered the Princess . '
I made haste enough to get it away again , but it must be that which smells so , notwithstanding . '
` Yes , it must be that , ' said the Troll .
Then the Princess asked if he had got hold of anyone who could brew a hundred lasts of malt at one brewing .
` No , there is no one who can do it , ' said the Troll . '
A short time since there was a man here who said he could do it , ' said the King 's daughter .
` How clever you always are ! '
said the Troll .
` How could you let him go away ?
You must have known that I was just wanting a man of that kind . '
` Well , but I did n't let him go , after all , ' said the Princess ; ` but father is so quick-tempered , so I hid him in the cupboard , but if father has not found any one then the man is still here . '
` Let him come in , ' said the Troll .
When Minnikin came , the Troll asked if it were true that he could brew a hundred lasts of malt at one brewing .
` Yes , ' said Minnikin , ` it is . '
` It is well then that I have lighted on thee , ' said the Troll .
` Fall to work this very minute , but Heaven help thee if thou dost not brew the ale strong . '
` Oh , it shall taste well , ' said Minnikin , and at once set himself to work to brew .
` But I must have more trolls to help to carry what is wanted , ' said Minnikin ; ` these that I have are good for nothing . '
So he got more and so many that there was a swarm of them , and then the brewing went on .
When the sweet-wort was ready they were all , as a matter of course , anxious to taste it , first the Troll himself and then the others ; but Minnikin had brewed the wort so strong that they all fell down dead like so many flies as soon as they had drunk any of it .
At last there was no one left but one wretched old hag who was lying behind the stove .
` Oh , poor old creature ! '
said Minnikin , ` you shall have a taste of the wort too like the rest . '
So he went away and scooped up a little from the bottom of the brewing vat in a milk pan , and gave it to her , and then he was quit of the whole of them .
While Minnikin was now standing there looking about him , he cast his eye on a large chest .
This he took and filled it with gold and silver , and then he tied the cable round himself and the Princess and the chest , and tugged at the rope with all his might , whereupon his men drew them up safe and sound .
As soon as Minnikin had got safely on his ship again , he said : ` Now go over salt water and fresh water , over hill and dale , and do not stop until thou comest unto the King 's palace . '
And in a moment the ship went off so fast that the yellow foam rose up all round about it .
When those who were in the King 's palace saw the ship , they lost no time in going to meet him with song and music , and thus they marched up towards Minnikin with great rejoicings ; but the gladdest of all was the King , for now he had got his other daughter back again .
But now Minnikin was not happy , for both the Princesses wanted to have him , and he wanted to have none other than the one whom he had first saved , and she was the younger .
For this cause he was continually walking backwards and forwards , thinking how he could contrive to get her , and yet do nothing that was unkind to her sister .
One day when he was walking about and thinking of this , it came into his mind that if he only had his brother , King Pippin , with him , who was so like himself that no one could distinguish the one from the other , he could let him have the elder Princess and half the kingdom ; as for himself , he thought , the other half was quite enough .
As soon as this thought occurred to him he went outside the palace and called for King Pippin , but no one came .
So he called a second time , and a little louder , but no !
still no one came .
So Minnikin called for the third time , and with all his might , and there stood his brother by his side . '
I told you that you were not to call me unless you were in the utmost need , ' he said to Minnikin , ` and there is not even so much as a midge here who can do you any harm ! '
and with that he gave Minnikin such a blow that he rolled over on the grass .
` Shame on you to strike me ! '
said Minnikin .
` First have I won one Princess and half the kingdom , and then the other Princess and the other half of the kingdom ; and now , when I was just thinking that I would give you one of the Princesses and one of the halves of the kingdom , do you think you have any reason to give me such a blow ? '
When King Pippin heard that he begged his brother 's pardon , and they were reconciled at once and became good friends .
` Now , as you know , ' said Minnikin , ` we are so like each other that no one can tell one of us from the other ; so just change clothes with me and go up to the palace , and then the Princesses will think that I am coming in , and the one who kisses you first shall be yours , and I will have the other . '
For he knew that the elder Princess was the stronger , so he could very well guess how things would go .
King Pippin at once agreed to this .
He changed clothes with his brother , and went into the palace .
When he entered the Princess 's apartments they believed that he was Minnikin , and both of them ran up to him at once ; but the elder , who was bigger and stronger , pushed her sister aside , and threw her arms round King Pippin 's neck and kissed him ; so he got her to wife , and Minnikin the younger sister .
It will be easy to understand that two weddings took place , and they were so magnificent that they were heard of and talked about all over seven kingdoms .
-LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From J. Moe .
BUSHY BRIDE THERE was once on a time a widower who had a son and a daughter by his first wife .
They were both good children , and loved each other with all their hearts .
After some time had gone by the man married again , and he chose a widow with one daughter who was ugly and wicked , and her mother was ugly and wicked too .
From the very day that the new wife came into the house there was no peace for the man 's children , and not a corner to be found where they could get any rest ; so the boy thought that the best thing he could do was to go out into the world and try to earn his own bread .
When he had roamed about for some time he came to the King 's palace , where he obtained a place under the coachman ; and very brisk and active he was , and the horses that he looked after were so fat and sleek , that they shone again .
But his sister , who was still at home , fared worse and worse .
Both her step-mother and her step-sister were always finding fault with her , whatsoever she did and whithersoever she went , and they scolded her and abused her so that she never had an hour 's peace .
They made her do all the hard work , and hard words fell to her lot early and late , but little enough food accompanied them .
One day they sent her to the brook to fetch some water home , and an ugly and horrible head rose up out of the water , and said , ` Wash me , girl ! '
` Yes , I will wash you with pleasure , ' said the girl , and began to wash and scrub the ugly face , but she could n't help thinking that it was a very unpleasant piece of work .
When she had done it , and done it well , another head rose up out of the water , and this one was uglier still .
` Brush me , girl ! '
said the head .
` Yes , I will brush you with pleasure , ' said the girl , and set to work with the tangled hair , and , as may be easily imagined , this too was by no means pleasant work .
When she had got it done , another and a much more ugly and horrible-looking head rose up out of the water .
` Kiss me , girl ! '
said the head .
` Yes , I will kiss you , ' said the man 's daughter , and she did it , but she thought it was the worst bit of work that she had ever had to do in her life .
So the heads all began to talk to each other , and to ask what they should do for this girl who was so full of kindliness .
` She shall be the prettiest girl that ever was , and fair and bright as the day , ' said the first head .
` Gold shall drop from her hair whenever she brushes it , ' said the second .
` Gold shall drop from her mouth whenever she speaks , ' said the third head .
So when the man 's daughter went home , looking as beautiful and bright as day , the step-mother and her daughter grew much more ill-tempered , and it was worse still when she began to talk , and they saw that golden coins dropped from her mouth .
The step-mother fell into such a towering passion that she drove the man 's daughter into the pig-stye -- she might stay there with her fine show of gold , the step-mother said , but she should not be permitted to set foot in the house .
It was not long before the mother wanted her own daughter to go to the stream to fetch some water .
When she got there with her pails , the first head rose up out of the water close to the bank .
` Wash me , girl ! '
it said .
` Wash yourself ! '
answered the woman 's daughter .
Then the second head appeared .
` Brush me , girl ! '
said the head .
` Brush yourself ! '
said the woman 's daughter .
So down it went to the bottom , and the third head came up .
` Kiss me , girl ! '
said the head .
` As if I would kiss your ugly mouth ! '
said the girl .
So again the heads talked together about what they should do for this girl who was so ill-tempered and full of her own importance , and they agreed that she should have a nose that was four ells long , and a jaw that was three ells , and a fir bush in the middle of her forehead , and every time she spoke ashes should fall from her mouth .
When she came back to the cottage door with her pails , she called to her mother who was inside , ` Open the door ! '
` Open the door yourself , my own dear child ! '
said the mother . '
I ca n't get near , because of my nose , ' said the daughter .
When the mother came and saw her you may imagine what a state of mind she was in , and how she screamed and lamented , but neither the nose nor the jaw grew any the less for that .
Now the brother , who was in service in the King 's palace , had taken a portrait of his sister , and he had carried the picture away with him , and every morning and evening he knelt down before it and prayed for his sister , so dearly did he love her .
The other stable-boys had heard him doing this , so they peeped through the key-hole into his room , and saw that he was kneeling there before a picture ; so they told everyone that every morning and evening the youth knelt down and prayed to an idol which he had ; and at last they went to the King himself , and begged that he too would peep through the key-hole , and see for himself what the youth did .
At first the King would not believe this , but after a long , long time , they prevailed with him , and he crept on tip-toe to the door , peeped through , and saw the youth on his knees , with his hands clasped together before a picture which was hanging on the wall .
` Open the door ! '
cried the King , but the youth did not hear .
So the King called to him again , but the youth was praying so fervently that he did not hear him this time either .
` Open the door , I say ! '
cried the King again .
` It is I !
I want to come in . '
So the youth sprang to the door and unlocked it , but in his haste he forgot to hide the picture .
When the King entered and saw it , he stood still as if he were in fetters , and could not stir from the spot , for the picture seemed to him so beautiful .
` There is nowhere on earth so beautiful a woman as this ! '
said the King .
But the youth told him that she was his sister , and that he had painted her , and that if she was not prettier than the picture she was at all events not uglier .
` Well , if she is as beautiful as that , I will have her for my Queen , ' said the King , and he commanded the youth to go home and fetch her without a moment 's delay , and to lose no time in coming back .
The youth promised to make all the haste he could , and set forth from the King 's palace .
When the brother arrived at home to fetch his sister , her stepmother and step-sister would go too .
So they all set out together , and the man 's daughter took with her a casket in which she kept her gold , and a dog which was called Little Snow .
These two things were all that she had inherited from her mother .
When they had travelled for some time they had to cross the sea , and the brother sat down at the helm , and the mother and the two half-sisters went to the fore-part of the vessel , and they sailed a long , long way .
At last they came in sight of land .
` Look at that white strand there ; that is where we shall land , ' said the brother , pointing across the sea .
` What is my brother saying ? '
inquired the man 's daughter .
` He says that you are to throw your casket out into the sea , ' answered the step-mother .
` Well , if my brother says so , I must do it , ' said the man 's daughter , and she flung her casket into the sea .
When they had sailed for some time longer , the brother once more pointed over the sea .
` There you may see the palace to which we are bound , ' said he .
` What is my brother saying ? '
asked the man 's daughter .
` Now he says that you are to throw your dog into the sea , ' answered the step-mother .
The man 's daughter wept , and was sorely troubled , for Little Snow was the dearest thing she had on earth , but at last she threw him overboard .
` If my brother says that , I must do it , but Heaven knows how unwilling I am to throw thee out , Little Snow ! '
said she .
So they sailed onwards a long way farther .
` There may ` st thou see the King coming out to meet thee , ' said the brother , pointing to the sea-shore .
` What is my brother saying ? '
asked his sister again .
` Now he says that you are to make haste and throw yourself overboard , ' answered the step-mother .
She wept and she wailed , but as her brother had said that , she thought she must do it ; so she leaped into the sea .
But when they arrived at the palace , and the King beheld the ugly bride with a nose that was four ells long , a jaw that was three ells , and a forehead that had a bush in the middle of it , he was quite terrified ; but the wedding feast was all prepared , as regarded brewing and baking , and all the wedding guests were sitting waiting , so , ugly as she was , the King was forced to take her .
But he was very wroth , and none can blame him for that ; so he caused the brother to be thrown into a pit full of snakes .
On the first Thursday night after this , a beautiful maiden came into the kitchen of the palace , and begged the kitchen-maid , who slept there , to lend her a brush .
She begged very prettily , and got it , and then she brushed her hair , and the gold dropped from it .
A little dog was with her , and she said to it , ` Go out , Little Snow , and see if it will soon be day ! '
This she said thrice , and the third time that she sent out the dog to see , it was very near dawn .
Then she was forced to depart , but as she went she said : ` Out on thee , ugly Bushy Bride , Sleeping so soft by the young King 's side , On sand and stones my bed I make , And my brother sleeps with the cold snake , Unpitied and unwept . '
I shall come twice more , and then never again , ' said she .
In the morning the kitchen-maid related what she had seen and heard , and the King said that next Thursday night he himself would watch in the kitchen and see if this were true , and when it had begun to grow dark he went out into the kitchen to the girl .
But though he rubbed his eyes and did everything he could to keep himself awake it was all in vain , for the Bushy Bride crooned and sang till his eyes were fast closed , and when the beautiful young maiden came he was sound asleep and snoring .
This time also , as before , she borrowed a brush and brushed her hair with it , and the gold dropped down as she did it ; and again she sent the dog out three times , and when day dawned she departed , but as she was going she said as she had said before , ' I shall come once more , and then never again . '
On the third Thursday night the King once more insisted on keeping watch .
Then he set two men to hold him ; each of them was to take an arm , and shake him and jerk him by the arm whenever he seemed to be going to fall asleep ; and he set two men to watch his Bushy Bride .
But as the night wore on the Bushy Bride again began to croon and to sing , so that his eyes began to close and his head to droop on one side .
Then came the lovely maiden , and got the brush and brushed her hair till the gold dropped from it , and then she sent her Little Snow out to see if it would soon be day , and this she did three times .
The third time it was just beginning to grow light , and then she said : ` Out on thee , ugly Bushy Bride , Sleeping so soft by the young King 's side , On sand and stones my bed I make , And my brother sleeps with the cold snake , Unpitied and unwept . '
` Now I shall never come again , ' she said , and then she turned to go .
But the two men who were holding the King by the arms seized his hands and forced a knife into his grasp , and then made him cut her little finger just enough to make it bleed .
Thus the true bride was freed .
The King then awoke , and she told him all that had taken place , and how her step-mother and step-sister had betrayed her .
Then the brother was at once taken out of the snake-pit -- the snakes had never touched him -- and the step-mother and step-sister were flung down into it instead of him .
No one can tell how delighted the King was to get rid of that hideous Bushy Bride , and get a Queen who was bright and beautiful as day itself .
And now the real wedding was held , and held in such a way that it was heard of and spoken about all over seven kingdoms .
The King and his bride drove to church , and Little Snow was in the carriage too .
When the blessing was given they went home again , and after that I saw no more of them .
-LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From J. Moe .
SNOWDROP ONCE upon a time , in the middle of winter when the snow-flakes were falling like feathers on the earth , a Queen sat at a window framed in black ebony and sewed .
And as she sewed and gazed out to the white landscape , she pricked her finger with the needle , and three drops of blood fell on the snow outside , and because the red showed out so well against the white she thought to herself : ` Oh !
what would n't I give to have a child as white as snow , as red as blood , and as black as ebony ! '
And her wish was granted , for not long after a little daughter was born to her , with a skin as white as snow , lips and cheeks as red as blood , and hair as black as ebony .
They called her Snowdrop , and not long after her birth the Queen died .
After a year the King married again .
His new wife was a beautiful woman , but so proud and overbearing that she could n't stand any rival to her beauty .
She possessed a magic mirror , and when she used to stand before it gazing at her own reflection and ask : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
it always replied : ` You are most fair , my Lady Queen , None fairer in the land , I ween . '
Then she was quite happy , for she knew the mirror always spoke the truth .
But Snowdrop was growing prettier and prettier every day , and when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as she could be , and fairer even than the Queen herself .
One day when the latter asked her mirror the usual question , it replied : ` My Lady Queen , you are fair , 't is true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you . '
Then the Queen flew into the most awful passion , and turned every shade of green in her jealousy .
From this hour she hated poor Snowdrop like poison , and every day her envy , hatred , and malice grew , for envy and jealousy are like evil weeds which spring up and choke the heart .
At last she could endure Snowdrop 's presence no longer , and , calling a huntsman to her , she said : ` Take the child out into the wood , and never let me see her face again .
You must kill her , and bring me back her lungs and liver , that I may know for certain she is dead . '
The Huntsman did as he was told and led Snowdrop out into the wood , but as he was in the act of drawing out his knife to slay her , she began to cry , and said : ` Oh , dear Huntsman , spare my life , and I will promise to fly forth into the wide wood and never to return home again . '
And because she was so young and pretty the Huntsman had pity on her , and said : ` Well , run along , poor child . '
For he thought to himself : ` The wild beasts will soon eat her up . '
And his heart felt lighter because he had n't had to do the deed himself .
And as he turned away a young boar came running past , so he shot it , and brought its lungs and liver home to the Queen as a proof that Snowdrop was really dead .
And the wicked woman had them stewed in salt , and ate them up , thinking she had made an end of Snowdrop for ever .
Now when the poor child found herself alone in the big wood the very trees around her seemed to assume strange shapes , and she felt so frightened she did n't know what to do .
Then she began to run over the sharp stones , and through the bramble bushes , and the wild beasts ran past her , but they did her no harm .
She ran as far as her legs would carry her , and as evening approached she saw a little house , and she stepped inside to rest .
Everything was very small in the little house , but cleaner and neater than anything you can imagine .
In the middle of the room there stood a little table , covered with a white tablecloth , and seven little plates and forks and spoons and knives and tumblers .
Side by side against the wall there were seven little beds , covered with snow-white counterpanes .
Snowdrop felt so hungry and so thirsty that she ate a bit of bread and a little porridge from each plate , and drank a drop of wine out of each tumbler .
Then feeling tired and sleepy she lay down on one of the beds , but it was n't comfortable ; then she tried all the others in turn , but one was too long , and another too short , and it was only when she got to the seventh that she found one to suit her exactly .
So she lay down upon it , said her prayers like a good child , and fell fast asleep .
When it got quite dark the masters of the little house returned .
They were seven dwarfs who worked in the mines , right down deep in the heart of the mountain .
They lighted their seven little lamps , and as soon as their eyes got accustomed to the glare they saw that someone had been in the room , for all was not in the same order as they had left it .
The first said : ` Who 's been sitting on my little chair ? '
The second said : ` Who 's been eating my little loaf ? '
The third said : ` Who 's been tasting my porridge ? '
The fourth said : ` Who 's been eating out of my little plate ? '
The fifth said : ` Who 's been using my little fork ? '
The sixth said : ` Who 's been cutting with my little knife ? '
The seventh said : ` Who 's been drinking out of my little tumbler ? '
Then the first Dwarf looked round and saw a little hollow in his bed , and he asked again : ` Who 's been lying on my bed ? '
The others came running round , and cried when they saw their beds : ` Somebody has lain on ours too . '
But when the seventh came to his bed , he started back in amazement , for there he beheld Snowdrop fast asleep .
Then he called the others , who turned their little lamps full on the bed , and when they saw Snowdrop lying there they nearly fell down with surprise .
` Goodness gracious ! '
they cried , ` what a beautiful child ! '
And they were so enchanted by her beauty that they did not wake her , but let her sleep on in the little bed .
But the seventh Dwarf slept with his companions one hour in each bed , and in this way he managed to pass the night .
In the morning Snowdrop awoke , but when she saw the seven little Dwarfs she felt very frightened .
But they were so friendly and asked her what her name was in such a kind way , that she replied : ' I am Snowdrop . '
` Why did you come to our house ? '
continued the Dwarfs .
Then she told them how her stepmother had wished her put to death , and how the Huntsman had spared her life , and how she had run the whole day till she had come to their little house .
The Dwarfs , when they had heard her sad story , asked her : ` Will you stay and keep house for us , cook , make the beds , the washing , sew and knit ?
and if you give satisfaction and keep everything neat and clean , you shall want for nothing . '
` Yes , ' answered Snowdrop , ' I will gladly do all you ask . '
And so she took up her abode with them .
Every morning the Dwarfs went into the mountain to dig for gold , and in the evening , when they returned home , Snowdrop always had their supper ready for them .
But during the day the girl was left quite alone , so the good Dwarfs warned her , saying : ` Beware of your step-mother .
She will soon find out you are here , and whatever you do do n't let anyone into the house . '
Now the Queen , after she thought she had eaten Snowdrop 's lungs and liver , never dreamed but that she was once more the most beautiful woman in the world ; so stepping before her mirror one day she said : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror replied : ` My Lady Queen , you are fair , 't is true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . '
When the Queen heard these words she was nearly struck dumb with horror , for the mirror always spoke the truth , and she knew now that the Huntsman must have deceived her , and that Snowdrop was still alive .
She pondered day and night how she might destroy her , for as long as she felt she had a rival in the land her jealous heart left her no rest .
At last she hit upon a plan .
She stained her face and dressed herself up as an old peddler wife , so that she was quite unrecognisable .
In this guise she went over the seven hills till she came to the house of the seven Dwarfs .
There she knocked at the door , calling out at the same time : ` Fine wares to sell , fine wares to sell ! '
Snowdrop peeped out of the window , and called out : ` Good-day , mother , what have you to sell ? '
` Good wares , fine wares , ' she answered ; ` laces of every shade and description , ' and she held one up that was made of some gay coloured silk .
` Surely I can let the honest woman in , ' thought Snowdrop ; so she unbarred the door and bought the pretty lace .
` Good gracious !
child , ' said the old woman , ` what a figure you 've got .
Come !
I 'll lace you up properly for once . '
Snowdrop , suspecting no evil , stood before her and let her lace her bodice up , but the old woman laced her so quickly and so tightly that it took Snowdrop 's breath away , and she fell down dead .
` Now you are no longer the fairest , ' said the wicked old woman , and then she hastened away .
In the evening the seven Dwarfs came home , and you may think what a fright they got when they saw their dear Snowdrop lying on the floor , as still and motionless as a dead person .
They lifted her up tenderly , and when they saw how tightly laced she was they cut the lace in two , and she began to breathe a little and gradually came back to life .
When the Dwarfs heard what had happened , they said : ` Depend upon it , the old peddler wife was none other than the old Queen .
In future you must be sure to let no one in , if we are not at home . '
As soon as the wicked old Queen got home she went straight to her mirror , and said : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror answered as before : ` My Lady Queen , you are fair , 't is true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . '
When she heard this she became as pale as death , because she saw at once that Snowdrop must be alive again .
` This time , ' she said to herself , ' I will think of something that will make an end of her once and for all . '
And by the witchcraft which she understood so well she made a poisonous comb ; then she dressed herself up and assumed the form of another old woman .
So she went over the seven hills till she reached the house of the seven Dwarfs , and knocking at the door she called out : ` Fine wares for sale . '
Snowdrop looked out of the window and said : ` You must go away , for I may not let anyone in . '
` But surely you are not forbidden to look out ? '
said the old woman , and she held up the poisonous comb for her to see .
It pleased the girl so much that she let herself be taken in , and opened the door .
When they had settled their bargain the old woman said : ` Now I 'll comb your hair properly for you , for once in the way . '
Poor Snowdrop thought no evil , but hardly had the comb touched her hair than the poison worked and she fell down unconscious .
` Now , my fine lady , you 're really done for this time , ' said the wicked woman , and she made her way home as fast as she could .
Fortunately it was now near evening , and the seven Dwarfs returned home .
When they saw Snowdrop lying dead on the ground , they at once suspected that her wicked step-mother had been at work again ; so they searched till they found the poisonous comb , and the moment they pulled it out of her head Snowdrop came to herself again , and told them what had happened .
Then they warned her once more to be on her guard , and to open the door to no one .
As soon as the Queen got home she went straight to her mirror , and asked : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and it replied as before : ` My Lady Queen , you are fair , 't is true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you .
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . '
When she heard these words she literally trembled and shook with rage .
` Snowdrop shall die , ' she cried ; ` yes , though it cost me my own life . '
Then she went to a little secret chamber , which no one knew of but herself , and there she made a poisonous apple .
Outwardly it looked beautiful , white with red cheeks , so that everyone who saw it longed to eat it , but anyone who might do so would certainly die on the spot .
When the apple was quite finished she stained her face and dressed herself up as a peasant , and so she went over the seven hills to the seven Dwarfs ' .
She knocked at the door , as usual , but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and called out : ' I may not let anyone in , the seven Dwarfs have forbidden me to do so . '
` Are you afraid of being poisoned ? '
asked the old woman .
` See , I will cut this apple in half .
I 'll eat the white cheek and you can eat the red . '
But the apple was so cunningly made that only the red cheek was poisonous .
Snowdrop longed to eat the tempting fruit , and when she saw that the peasant woman was eating it herself , she could n't resist the temptation any longer , and stretching out her hand she took the poisonous half .
But hardly had the first bite passed her lips than she fell down dead on the ground .
Then the eyes of the cruel Queen sparkled with glee , and laughing aloud she cried : ` As white as snow , as red as blood , and as black as ebony , this time the Dwarfs wo n't be able to bring you back to life . '
When she got home she asked the mirror : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and this time it replied : ` You are most fair , my Lady Queen , None fairer in the land , I ween . '
Then her jealous heart was at rest -- at least , as much at rest as a jealous heart can ever be .
When the little Dwarfs came home in the evening they found Snowdrop lying on the ground , and she neither breathed nor stirred .
They lifted her up , and looked round everywhere to see if they could find anything poisonous about .
They unlaced her bodice , combed her hair , washed her with water and wine , but all in vain ; the child was dead and remained dead .
Then they placed her on a bier , and all the seven Dwarfs sat round it , weeping and sobbing for three whole days .
At last they made up their minds to bury her , but she looked as blooming as a living being , and her cheeks were still such a lovely colour , that they said : ` We ca n't hide her away in the black ground . '
So they had a coffin made of transparent glass , and they laid her in it , and wrote on the lid in golden letters that she was a royal Princess .
Then they put the coffin on the top of the mountain , and one of the Dwarfs always remained beside it and kept watch over it .
And the very birds of the air came and bewailed Snowdrop 's death , first an owl , and then a raven , and last of all a little dove .
Snowdrop lay a long time in the coffin , and she always looked the same , just as if she were fast asleep , and she remained as white as snow , as red as blood , and her hair as black as ebony .
Now it happened one day that a Prince came to the wood and passed by the Dwarfs ' house .
He saw the coffin on the hill , with the beautiful Snowdrop inside it , and when he had read what was written on it in golden letters , he said to the Dwarf : ` Give me the coffin .
I 'll give you whatever you like for it . '
But the Dwarf said : ` No ; we would n't part with it for all the gold in the world . '
` Well , then , ' he replied , ` give it to me , because I ca n't live without Snowdrop .
I will cherish and love it as my dearest possession . '
He spoke so sadly that the good Dwarfs had pity on him , and gave him the coffin , and the Prince made his servants bear it away on their shoulders .
Now it happened that as they were going down the hill they stumbled over a bush , and jolted the coffin so violently that the poisonous bit of apple Snowdrop had swallowed fell out of her throat .
She gradually opened her eyes , lifted up the lid of the coffin , and sat up alive and well .
` Oh !
dear me , where am I ? '
she cried .
The Prince answered joyfully , ` You are with me , ' and he told her all that had happened , adding , ' I love you better than anyone in the whole wide world .
Will you come with me to my father 's palace and be my wife ? '
Snowdrop consented , and went with him , and the marriage was celebrated with great pomp and splendour .
Now Snowdrop 's wicked step-mother was one of the guests invited to the wedding feast .
When she had dressed herself very gorgeously for the occasion , she went to the mirror , and said : ` Mirror , mirror , hanging there , Who in all the land 's most fair ? '
and the mirror answered : ` My Lady Queen , you are fair , 't is true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you . '
When the wicked woman heard these words she uttered a curse , and was beside herself with rage and mortification .
At first she did n't want to go to the wedding at all , but at the same time she felt she would never be happy till she had seen the young Queen .
As she entered Snowdrop recognised her , and nearly fainted with fear ; but red-hot iron shoes had been prepared for the wicked old Queen , and she was made to get into them and dance till she fell down dead .
-LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 29 -RRB- Grimm .
THE GOLDEN GOOSE THERE was once a man who had three sons .
The youngest of them was called Dullhead , and was sneered and jeered at and snubbed on every possible opportunity .
One day it happened that the eldest son wished to go into the forest to cut wood , and before he started his mother gave him a fine rich cake and a bottle of wine , so that he might be sure not to suffer from hunger or thirst .
When he reached the forest he met a little old grey man who wished him ` Good-morning , ' and said : ` Do give me a piece of that cake you have got in your pocket , and let me have a draught of your wine -- I am so hungry and thirsty . '
But this clever son replied : ` If I give you my cake and wine I shall have none left for myself ; you just go your own way ; ' and he left the little man standing there and went further on into the forest .
There he began to cut down a tree , but before long he made a false stroke with his axe , and cut his own arm so badly that he was obliged to go home and have it bound up .
Then the second son went to the forest , and his mother gave him a good cake and a bottle of wine as she had to his elder brother .
He too met the little old grey man , who begged him for a morsel of cake and a draught of wine .
But the second son spoke most sensibly too , and said : ` Whatever I give to you I deprive myself of .
Just go your own way , will you ? '
Not long after his punishment overtook him , for no sooner had he struck a couple of blows on a tree with his axe , than he cut his leg so badly that he had to be carried home .
So then Dullhead said : ` Father , let me go out and cut wood . '
But his father answered : ` Both your brothers have injured themselves .
You had better leave it alone ; you know nothing about it . '
But Dullhead begged so hard to be allowed to go that at last his father said : ` Very well , then -- go .
Perhaps when you have hurt yourself , you may learn to know better . '
His mother only gave him a very plain cake made with water and baked in the cinders , and a bottle of sour beer .
When he got to the forest , he too met the little grey old man , who greeted him and said : ` Give me a piece of your cake and a draught from your bottle ; I am so hungry and thirsty . '
And Dullhead replied : ` I 've only got a cinder-cake and some sour beer , but if you care to have that , let us sit down and eat . '
So they sat down , and when Dullhead brought out his cake he found it had turned into a fine rich cake , and the sour beer into excellent wine .
Then they ate and drank , and when they had finished the little man said : ` Now I will bring you luck , because you have a kind heart and are willing to share what you have with others .
There stands an old tree ; cut it down , and amongst its roots you 'll find something . '
With that the little man took leave .
Then Dullhead fell to at once to hew down the tree , and when it fell he found amongst its roots a goose , whose feathers were all of pure gold .
He lifted it out , carried it off , and took it with him to an inn where he meant to spend the night .
Now the landlord of the inn had three daughters , and when they saw the goose they were filled with curiosity as to what this wonderful bird could be , and each longed to have one of its golden feathers .
The eldest thought to herself : ` No doubt I shall soon find a good opportunity to pluck out one of its feathers , ' and the first time Dullhead happened to leave the room she caught hold of the goose by its wing .
But , lo and behold !
her fingers seemed to stick fast to the goose , and she could not take her hand away .
Soon after the second daughter came in , and thought to pluck a golden feather for herself too ; but hardly had she touched her sister than she stuck fast as well .
At last the third sister came with the same intentions , but the other two cried out : ` Keep off !
for Heaven 's sake , keep off ! '
The younger sister could not imagine why she was to keep off , and thought to herself : ` If they are both there , why should not I be there too ? '
So she sprang to them ; but no sooner had she touched one of them than she stuck fast to her .
So they all three had to spend the night with the goose .
Next morning Dullhead tucked the goose under his arm and went off , without in the least troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it .
They just had to run after him right or left as best they could .
In the middle of a field they met the parson , and when he saw this procession he cried : ` For shame , you bold girls !
What do you mean by running after a young fellow through the fields like that ?
Do you call that proper behaviour ? '
And with that he caught the youngest girl by the hand to try and draw her away .
But directly he touched her he hung on himself , and had to run along with the rest of them .
Not long after the clerk came that way , and was much surprised to see the parson following the footsteps of three girls .
` Why , where is your reverence going so fast ? '
cried he ; ` do n't forget there is to be a christening to-day ; ' and he ran after him , caught him by the sleeve , and hung on to it himself : As the five of them trotted along in this fashion one after the other , two peasants were coming from their work with their hoes .
On seeing them the parson called out and begged them to come and rescue him and the clerk .
But no sooner did they touch the clerk than they stuck on too , and so there were seven of them running after Dullhead and his goose .
After a time they all came to a town where a King reigned whose daughter was so serious and solemn that no one could ever manage to make her laugh .
So the King had decreed that whoever should succeed in making her laugh should marry her .
When Dullhead heard this he marched before the Princess with his goose and its appendages , and as soon as she saw these seven people continually running after each other she burst out laughing , and could not stop herself .
Then Dullhead claimed her as his bride , but the King , who did not much fancy him as a son-in-law , made all sorts of objections , and told him he must first find a man who could drink up a whole cellarful of wine .
Dullhead bethought him of the little grey man , who could , he felt sure , help him ; so he went off to the forest , and on the very spot where he had cut down the tree he saw a man sitting with a most dismal expression of face .
Dullhead asked him what he was taking so much to heart , and the man answered : ' I do n't know how I am ever to quench this terrible thirst I am suffering from .
Cold water does n't suit me at all .
To be sure I 've emptied a whole barrel of wine , but what is one drop on a hot stone ? ' '
I think I can help you , ' said Dullhead .
` Come with me , and you shall drink to your heart 's content . '
So he took him to the King 's cellar , and the man sat down before the huge casks and drank and drank till he drank up the whole contents of the cellar before the day closed .
Then Dullhead asked once more for his bride , but the King felt vexed at the idea of a stupid fellow whom people called ` Dullhead ' carrying off his daughter , and he began to make fresh conditions .
He required Dullhead to find a man who could eat a mountain of bread .
Dullhead did not wait to consider long but went straight off to the forest , and there on the same spot sat a man who was drawing in a strap as tight as he could round his body , and making a most woeful face the while .
Said he : ` I 've eaten up a whole oven full of loaves , but what 's the good of that to anyone who is as hungry as I am ?
I declare my stomach feels quite empty , and I must draw my belt tight if I 'm not to die of starvation . '
Dullhead was delighted , and said : ` Get up and come with me , and you shall have plenty to eat , ' and he brought him to the King 's Court .
Now the King had given orders to have all the flour in his kingdom brought together , and to have a huge mountain baked of it .
But the man from the wood just took up his stand before the mountain and began to eat , and in one day it had all vanished .
For the third time Dullhead asked for his bride , but again the King tried to make some evasion , and demanded a ship ` which could sail on land or water !
When you come sailing in such a ship , ' said he , ` you shall have my daughter without further delay . '
Again Dullhead started off to the forest , and there he found the little old grey man with whom he had shared his cake , and who said : ' I have eaten and I have drunk for you , and now I will give you the ship .
I have done all this for you because you were kind and merciful to me . '
Then he gave Dullhead a ship which could sail on land or water , and when the King saw it he felt he could no longer refuse him his daughter .
So they celebrated the wedding with great rejoicings ; and after the King 's death Dullhead succeeded to the kingdom , and lived happily with his wife for many years after .
-LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- Grimm .
THE SEVEN FOALS THERE was once upon a time a couple of poor folks who lived in a wretched hut , far away from everyone else , in a wood .
They only just managed to live from hand to mouth , and had great difficulty in doing even so much as that , but they had three sons , and the youngest of them was called Cinderlad , for he did nothing else but lie and poke about among the ashes .
One day the eldest lad said that he would go out to earn his living ; he soon got leave to do that , and set out on his way into the world .
He walked on and on for the whole day , and when night was beginning to fall he came to a royal palace .
The King was standing outside on the steps , and asked where he was going .
` Oh , I am going about seeking a place , my father , ' said the youth .
` Wilt thou serve me , and watch my seven foals ? '
asked the King .
` If thou canst watch them for a whole day and tell me at night what they eat and drink , thou shalt have the Princess and half my kingdom , but if thou canst not , I will cut three red stripes on thy back . '
The youth thought that it was very easy work to watch the foals , and that he could do it well enough .
Next morning , when day was beginning to dawn , the King 's Master of the Horse let out the seven foals ; and they ran away , and the youth after them just as it chanced , over hill and dale , through woods end bogs .
When the youth had run thus for a long time he began to be tired , and when he had held on a little longer he was heartily weary of watching at all , and at the same moment he came to a cleft in a rock where an old woman was sitting spinning with her distaff in her hand .
As soon as she caught sight of the youth , who was running after the foals till the perspiration streamed down his face , she cried : ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair for you . '
The lad was willing enough , so he sat down in the cleft of the rock beside the old hag , and laid his head on her knees , and she combed his hair all day while he lay there and gave himself up to idleness .
When evening was drawing near , the youth wanted to go . '
I may just as well go straight home again , ' said he , ` for it is no use to go to the King 's palace . '
` Wait till it is dusk , ' said the old hag , ` and then the King 's foals will pass by this place again , and you can run home with them ; no one will ever know that you have been lying here all day instead of watching the foals . '
So when they came she gave the lad a bottle of water and a bit of moss , and told him to show these to the King and say that this was what his seven foals ate and drank .
` Hast thou watched faithfully and well the whole day long ? '
said the King , when the lad came into his presence in the evening .
` Yes , that I have ! '
said the youth .
` Then you are able to tell me what it is that my seven foals eat and drink , ' said the King .
So the youth produced the bottle of water and the bit of moss which he had got from the old woman , saying : ` Here you see their meat , and here you see their drink . '
Then the King knew how his watching had been done , and fell into such a rage that he ordered his people to chase the youth back to his own home at once ; but first they were to cut three red stripes in his back , and rub salt into them .
When the youth reached home again , anyone can imagine what a state of mind he was in .
He had gone out once to seek a place , he said , but never would he do such a thing again .
Next day the second son said that he would now go out into the world to seek his fortune .
His father and mother said ` No , ' and bade him look at his brother 's back , but the youth would not give up his design , and stuck to it , and after a long , long time he got leave to go , and set forth on his way .
When he had walked all day he too came to the King 's palace , and the King was standing outside on the steps , and asked where he was going ; and when the youth replied that he was going about in search of a place , the King said that he might enter into his service and watch his seven foals .
Then the King promised him the same punishment and the same reward that he had promised his brother .
The youth at once consented to this and entered into the King 's service , for he thought he could easily watch the foals and inform the King what they ate and drank .
In the grey light of dawn the Master of the Horse let out the seven foals , and off they went again over hill and dale , and off went the lad after them .
But all went with him as it had gone with his brother .
When he had run after the foals for a long , long time and was hot and tired , he passed by a cleft in the rock where an old woman was sitting spinning with a distaff , and she called to him : ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair . '
The youth liked the thought of this , let the foals run where they chose , and seated himself in the cleft of the rock by the side of the old hag .
So there he sat with his head on her lap , taking his ease the livelong day .
The foals came back in the evening , and then he too got a bit of moss and a bottle of water from the old hag , which things he was to show to the King .
But when the King asked the youth : ` Canst thou tell me what my seven foals eat and drink ? '
and the youth showed him the bit of moss and the bottle of water , and said : ` Yes here may you behold their meat , and here their drink , ' the King once more became wroth , and commanded that three red stripes should be cut on the lad 's back , that salt should be strewn upon them , and that he should then be instantly chased back to his own home .
So when the youth got home again he too related all that had happened to him , and he too said that he had gone out in search of a place once , but that never would he do it again .
On the third day Cinderlad wanted to set out .
He had a fancy to try to watch the seven foals himself , he said .
The two others laughed at him , and mocked him .
` What I when all went so ill with us , do you suppose that you are going to succeed ?
You look like succeeding -- you who have never done anything else but lie and poke about among the ashes ! '
said they .
` Yes , I will go too , ' said Cinderlad , ` for I have taken it into my head . '
The two brothers laughed at him , and his father and mother begged him not to go , but all to no purpose , and Cinderlad set out on his way .
So when he had walked the whole day , he too came to the King 's palace as darkness began to fall .
There stood the King outside on the steps , and he asked whither he was bound . '
I am walking about in search of a place , ' said Cinderlad .
` From whence do you come , then ? '
inquired the King , for by this time he wanted to know a little more about the men before he took any of them into his service .
So Cinderlad told him whence he came , and that he was brother to the two who had watched the seven foals for the King , and then he inquired if he might be allowed to try to watch them on the following day .
` Oh , shame on them ! '
said the King , for it enraged him even to think of them .
` If thou art brother to those two , thou too art not good for much .
I have had enough of such fellows . '
` Well , but as I have come here , you might just give me leave to make the attempt , ' said Cinderlad .
` Oh , very well , if thou art absolutely determined to have thy back flayed , thou may ` st have thine own way if thou wilt , ' said the King . '
I would much rather have the Princess , ' said Cinderlad .
Next morning , in the grey light of dawn , the Master of the Horse let out the seven foals again , and off they set over hill and dale , through woods and bogs , and off went Cinderlad after them .
When he had run thus for a long time , he too came to the cleft in the rock .
There the old hag was once more sitting spinning from her distaff , and she cried to Cinderlad ; ` Come hither , come hither , my handsome son , and let me comb your hair for you . '
` Come to me , then ; come to me ! '
said Cinderlad , as he passed by jumping and running , and keeping tight hold of one of the foals ' tails .
When he had got safely past the cleft in the rock , the youngest foal said : ` Get on my back , for we have still a long way to go . '
So the lad did this .
And thus they journeyed onwards a long , long way .
` Dost thou see anything now ? '
said the Foal .
` No , ' said Cinderlad .
So they journeyed onwards a good bit farther .
` Dost thou see anything now ? '
asked the Foal .
` Oh , no , ' said the lad .
When they had gone thus for a long , long way , the Foal again asked : ` Dost thou see anything now ? '
` Yes , now I see something that is white , ' said Cinderlad .
` It looks like the trunk of a great thick birch tree . '
` Yes , that is where we are to go in , ' said the Foal .
When they got to the trunk , the eldest foal broke it down on one side , and then they saw a door where the trunk had been standing , and inside this there was a small room , and in the room there was scarcely anything but a small fire-place and a couple of benches , but behind the door hung a great rusty sword and a small pitcher .
` Canst thou wield that sword ? '
asked the Foal .
Cinderlad tried , but could not do it ; so he had to take a draught from the pitcher , and then one more , and after that still another , and then he was able to wield the sword with perfect ease .
` Good , ' said the Foal ; ` and now thou must take the sword away with thee , and with it shalt thou cut off the heads of all seven of us on thy wedding-day , and then we shall become princes again as we were before .
For we are brothers of the Princess whom thou art to have when thou canst tell the King what we eat and drink , but there is a mighty Troll who has cast a spell over us .
When thou hast cut off our heads , thou must take the greatest care to lay each head at the tail of the body to which it belonged before , and then the spell which the Troll has cast upon us will lose all its power . '
Cinderlad promised to do this , and then they went on farther .
When they had travelled a long , long way , the Foal said : ` Dost thou see anything ? '
` No , ' said Cinderlad .
So they went on a great distance farther .
` And now ? '
inquired the Foal , ` seest thou nothing now ? '
` Alas !
no , ' said Cinderlad .
So they travelled onwards again , for many and many a mile , over hill and dale .
` Now , then , ' said the Foal , ` dost thou not see anything now ? '
` Yes , ' said Cinderlad ; ` now I see something like a bluish streak , far , far away . '
` That is a river , ' said the Foal , ` and we have to cross it . '
There was a long , handsome bridge over the river , and when they had got to the other side of it they again travelled on a long , long way , and then once more the Foal inquired if Cinderlad saw anything .
Yes , this time he saw something that looked black , far , far away , and was rather like a church tower .
` Yes , ' said the Foal , ` we shall go into that . '
When the Foals got into the churchyard they turned into men and looked like the sons of a king , and their clothes were so magnificent that they shone with splendour , and they went into the church and received bread and wine from the priest , who was standing before the altar , and Cinderlad went in too .
But when the priest had laid his hands on the princes and read the blessing , they went out of the church again , and Cinderlad went out too , but he took with him a flask of wine and some consecrated bread .
No sooner had the seven princes come out into the churchyard than they became foals again , and Cinderlad got upon the back of the youngest , and they returned by the way they had come , only they went much , much faster .
First they went over the bridge , and then past the trunk of the birch tree , and then past the old hag who sat in the cleft of the rock spinning , and they went by so fast that Cinderlad could not hear what the old hag screeched after him , but just heard enough to understand that she was terribly enraged .
It was all but dark when they got back to the King at nightfall , and he himself was standing in the courtyard waiting for them .
` Hast thou watched well and faithfully the whole day ? '
said the King to Cinderlad . '
I have done my best , ' replied Cinderlad .
` Then thou canst tell me what my seven foals eat and drink ? '
asked the King .
So Cinderlad pulled out the consecrated bread and the flask of wine , and showed them to the King .
` Here may you behold their meat , and here their drink , ' said he .
` Yes , diligently and faithfully hast thou watched , ' said the King , ` and thou shalt have the Princess and half the kingdom . '
So all was made ready for the wedding , and the King said that it was to be so stately and magnificent that everyone should hear of it , and everyone inquire about it .
But when they sat down to the marriage-feast , the bridegroom arose and went down to the stable , for he said that he had forgotten something which he must go and look to .
When he got there , he did what the foals had bidden him , and cut off the heads of all the seven .
First the eldest , and then the second , and so on according to their age , and he was extremely careful to lay each head at the tail of the foal to which it had belonged , and when that was done , all the foals became princes again .
When he returned to the marriage-feast with the seven princes , the King was so joyful that he both kissed Cinderlad and clapped him on the back , and his bride was still more delighted with him than she had been before .
` Half my kingdom is thine already , ' said the King , ` and the other half shall be thine after my death , for my sons can get countries and kingdoms for themselves now that they have become princes again . '
Therefore , as all may well believe , there was joy and merriment at that wedding .
-LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE MARVELLOUS MUSICIAN THERE was once upon a time a marvellous musician .
One day he was wandering through a wood all by himself , thinking now of one thing , now of another , till there was nothing else left to think about .
Then he said to himself : ` Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I 'm all alone in the wood .
I must try and find a pleasant companion . '
So he took his fiddle out , and fiddled till he woke the echoes round .
After a time a wolf came through the thicket and trotted up to the musician .
` Oh !
it 's a Wolf , is it ? '
said he .
` I 've not the smallest wish for his society . '
But the Wolf approached him and said : ` Oh , my dear musician , how beautifully you play !
I wish you 'd teach me how it 's done . '
` That 's easily learned , ' answered the fiddler ; ` you must only do exactly as I tell you . '
` Of course I will , ' replied the Wolf . '
I can promise that you will find me a most apt pupil . '
So they joined company and went on their way together , and after a time they came to an old oak tree , which was hollow and had a crack in the middle of the trunk .
` Now , ' said the Musician , ` if you want to learn to fiddle , here 's your chance .
Lay your front paws in this crack . '
The Wolf did as he was told , and the Musician quickly seized a stone , and wedged both his fore paws so firmly into the crack that he was held there , a fast prisoner .
` Wait there till I return , ' said the Fiddler , and he went on his way .
After a time he said to himself again : ` Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I 'm all alone in the wood ; I must try and find a companion . '
So he drew out his fiddle , and fiddled away lustily .
Presently a fox slunk through the trees .
` Aha I what have we here ? '
said the Musician . '
A fox ; well , I have n't the smallest desire for his company . '
The Fox came straight up to him and said : ` My dear friend , how beautifully you play the fiddle ; I would like to learn how you do it . '
` Nothing easier , ' said the Musician , ` if you 'll promise to do exactly as I tell you . '
` Certainly , ' answered the Fox , ` you have only to say the word . '
` Well , then , follow me , ' replied the Fiddler .
When they had gone a bi of the way , they came to a path with high trees on each side .
Here the Musician halted , bent a stout hazel bough down to the ground from one side of the path , and put his foot on the end of it to keep it down .
Then he bent a branch down from the other side and said : ` Give me your left front paw , my little Fox , if you really wish to learn how it 's done . '
The Fox did as he was told , and the Musician tied his front paw to the end of one of the branches .
` Now , my friend , ' he said , ` give me your right paw . '
This he bound to the other branch , and having carefully seen that his knots were all secure , he stepped off the ends of the branches , and they sprang back , leaving the poor Fox suspended in mid-air .
` Just you wait where you are till I return , ' said the Musician , and he went on his way again .
Once more he said to himself : ` Time hangs heavily on my hands when I 'm all alone in the wood ; I must try and find another companion . '
So he took out his fiddle and played as merrily as before .
This time a little hare came running up at the sound .
` Oh !
here comes a hare , ' said the Musician ; ` I 've not the smallest desire for his company . '
` How beautifully you play , dear Mr. Fiddler , ' said the little Hare . '
I wish I could learn how you do it . '
` It 's easily learnt , ' answered the Musician ; ` just do exactly as I tell you . '
` That I will , ' said the Hare , ` you will find me a most attentive pupil . '
They went on a bit together , till they came to a thin part of the wood , where they found an aspen tree growing .
The Musician bound a long cord round the little Hare 's neck , the other end of which he fastened to the tree .
` Now , my merry little friend , ' said the Musician , ` run twenty times round the tree . '
The little Hare obeyed , and when it had run twenty times round the tree , the cord had twisted itself twenty times round the trunk , so that the poor little beast was held a fast prisoner , and it might bite and tear as much as it liked , it could n't free itself , and the cord only cut its tender neck .
` Wait there till I return , ' said the Musician , and went on his way .
In the meantime the Wolf had pulled and bitten and scratched at the stone , till at last he succeeded in getting his paws out .
Full of anger , he hurried after the Musician , determined when he met him to tear him to pieces .
When the Fox saw him running by , he called out as loud as he could : ` Brother Wolf , come to my rescue , the Musician has deceived me too . '
The Wolf pulled the branches down , bit the cord in two , and set the Fox free .
So they went on their way together , both vowing vengeance on the Musician .
They found the poor imprisoned little Hare , and having set him free also , they all set out to look for their enemy .
During this time the Musician had once more played his fiddle , and had been more fortunate in the result .
The sounds pierced to the ears of a poor woodman , who instantly left his work , and with his hatchet under his arm came to listen to the music .
` At last I 've got a proper sort of companion , ' said the Musician , ` for it was a human being I wanted all along , and not a wild animal . '
And he began playing so enchantingly that the poor man stood there as if bewitched , and his heart leapt for joy as he listened .
And as he stood thus , the Wolf and Fox and little Hare came up , and the woodman saw at once that they meant mischief .
He lifted his glittering axe and placed himself in front of the Musician , as much as to say : ` If you touch a hair of his head , beware , for you will have to answer for it to me . '
Then the beasts were frightened , and they all three ran back into the wood , and the Musician played the woodman one of his best tunes , by way of thanks , and then continued his way .
-LRB- 32 -RRB- -LRB- 32 -RRB- Grimm .
THE STORY OF SIGURD -LRB- This is a very old story : the Danes who used to fight with the English in King Alfred 's time knew this story .
They have carved on the rocks pictures of some of the things that happen in the tale , and those carvings may still be seen .
Because it is so old and so beautiful the story is told here again , but it has a sad ending -- indeed it is all sad , and all about fighting and killing , as might be expected from the Danes . -RRB-
ONCE upon a time there was a King in the North who had won many wars , but now he was old .
Yet he took a new wife , and then another Prince , who wanted to have married her , came up against him with a great army .
The old King went out and fought bravely , but at last his sword broke , and he was wounded and his men fled .
But in the night , when the battle was over , his young wife came out and searched for him among the slain , and at last she found him , and asked whether he might be healed .
But he said ` No , ' his luck was gone , his sword was broken , and he must die .
And he told her that she would have a son , and that son would be a great warrior , and would avenge him on the other King , his enemy .
And he bade her keep the broken pieces of the sword , to make a new sword for his son , and that blade should be called Gram .
Then he died .
And his wife called her maid to her and said , ` Let us change clothes , and you shall be called by my name , and I by yours , lest the enemy finds us . '
So this was done , and they hid in a wood , but there some strangers met them and carried them off in a ship to Denmark .
And when they were brought before the King , he thought the maid looked like a Queen , and the Queen like a maid .
So he asked the Queen , ` How do you know in the dark of night whether the hours are wearing to the morning ? '
And she said : ' I know because , when I was younger , I used to have to rise and light the fires , and still I waken at the same time . ' '
A strange Queen to light the fires , ' thought the King .
Then he asked the Queen , who was dressed like a maid , ` How do you know in the dark of night whether the hours are wearing near the dawn ? '
` My father gave me a gold ring , ' said she , ` and always , ere the dawning , it grows cold on my finger . ' '
A rich house where the maids wore gold , ' said the King .
` Truly you are no maid , but a King 's daughter . '
So he treated her royally , and as time went on she had a son called Sigurd , a beautiful boy and very strong .
He had a tutor to be with him , and once the tutor bade him go to the King and ask for a horse .
` Choose a horse for yourself , ' said the King ; and Sigurd went to the wood , and there he met an old man with a white beard , and said , ` Come !
help me in horse-choosing . '
Then the old man said , ` Drive all the horses into the river , and choose the one that swims across . '
So Sigurd drove them , and only one swam across .
Sigurd chose him : his name was Grani , and he came of Sleipnir 's breed , and was the best horse in the world .
For Sleipnir was the horse of Odin , the God of the North , and was as swift as the wind .
But a day or two later his tutor said to Sigurd , ` There is a great treasure of gold hidden not far from here , and it would become you to win it . '
But Sigurd answered , ' I have heard stories of that treasure , and I know that the dragon Fafnir guards it , and he is so huge and wicked that no man dares to go near him . '
` He is no bigger than other dragons , ' said the tutor , ` and if you were as brave as your father you would not fear him . ' '
I am no coward , ' says Sigurd ; ` why do you want me to fight with this dragon ? '
Then his tutor , whose name was Regin , told him that all this great hoard of red gold had once belonged to his own father .
And his father had three sons -- the first was Fafnir , the Dragon ; the next was Otter , who could put on the shape of an otter when he liked ; and the next was himself , Regin , and he was a great smith and maker of swords .
Now there was at that time a dwarf called Andvari , who lived in a pool beneath a waterfall , and there he had hidden a great hoard of gold .
And one day Otter had been fishing there , and had killed a salmon and eaten it , and was sleeping , like an otter , on a stone .
Then someone came by , and threw a stone at the otter and killed it , and flayed off the skin , and took it to the house of Otter 's father .
Then he knew his son was dead , and to punish the person who had killed him he said he must have the Otter 's skin filled with gold , and covered all over with red gold , or it should go worse with him .
Then the person who had killed Otter went down and caught the Dwarf who owned all the treasure and took it from him .
Only one ring was left , which the Dwarf wore , and even that was taken from him .
Then the poor Dwarf was very angry , and he prayed that the gold might never bring any but bad luck to all the men who might own it , for ever .
Then the otter skin was filled with gold and covered with gold , all but one hair , and that was covered with the poor Dwarf 's last ring .
But it brought good luck to nobody .
First Fafnir , the Dragon , killed his own father , and then he went and wallowed on the gold , and would let his brother have none , and no man dared go near it .
When Sigurd heard the story he said to Regin : ` Make me a good sword that I may kill this Dragon . '
So Regin made a sword , and Sigurd tried it with a blow on a lump of iron , and the sword broke .
Another sword he made , and Sigurd broke that too .
Then Sigurd went to his mother , and asked for the broken pieces of his father 's blade , and gave them to Regin .
And he hammered and wrought them into a new sword , so sharp that fire seemed to burn along its edges .
Sigurd tried this blade on the lump of iron , and it did not break , but split the iron in two .
Then he threw a lock of wool into the river , and when it floated down against the sword it was cut into two pieces .
So Sigurd said that sword would do .
But before he went against the Dragon he led an army to fight the men who had killed his father , and he slew their King , and took all his wealth , and went home .
When he had been at home a few days , he rode out with Regin one morning to the heath where the Dragon used to lie .
Then he saw the track which the Dragon made when he went to a cliff to drink , and the track was as if a great river had rolled along and left a deep valley .
Then Sigurd went down into that deep place , and dug many pits in it , and in one of the pits he lay hidden with his sword drawn .
There he waited , and presently the earth began to shake with the weight of the Dragon as he crawled to the water .
And a cloud of venom flew before him as he snorted and roared , so that it would have been death to stand before him .
But Sigurd waited till half of him had crawled over the pit , and then he thrust the sword Gram right into his very heart .
Then the Dragon lashed with his tail till stones broke and trees crashed about him .
Then he spoke , as he died , and said : ` Whoever thou art that hast slain me this gold shall be thy ruin , and the ruin of all who own it . '
Sigurd said : ' I would touch none of it if by losing it I should never die .
But all men die , and no brave man lets death frighten him from his desire .
Die thou , Fafnir , ' and then Fafnir died .
And after that Sigurd was called Fafnir 's Bane , and Dragonslayer .
Then Sigurd rode back , and met Regin , and Regin asked him to roast Fafnir 's heart and let him taste of it .
So Sigurd put the heart of Fafnir on a stake , and roasted it .
But it chanced that he touched it with his finger , and it burned him .
Then he put his finger in his mouth , and so tasted the heart of Fafnir .
Then immediately he understood the language of birds , and he heard the Woodpeckers say : ` There is Sigurd roasting Fafnir 's heart for another , when he should taste of it himself and learn all wisdom . '
The next bird said : ` There lies Regin , ready to betray Sigurd , who trusts him . '
The third bird said : ` Let him cut off Regin 's head , and keep all the gold to himself . '
The fourth bird said : ` That let him do , and then ride over Hindfell , to the place where Brynhild sleeps . '
When Sigurd heard all this , and how Regin was plotting to betray him , he cut off Regin 's head with one blow of the sword Gram .
Then all ` he birds broke out singing : ` We know a fair maid , A fair maiden sleeping ; Sigurd , be not afraid , Sigurd , win thou the maid Fortune is keeping .
` High over Hindfell Red fire is flaming , There doth the maiden dwell She that should love thee well , Meet for thy taming .
` There must she sleep till thou Comest for her waking Rise up and ride , for now Sure she will swear the vow Fearless of breaking . '
Then Sigurd remembered how the story went that somewhere , far away , there was a beautiful lady enchanted .
She was under a spell , so that she must always sleep in a castle surrounded by flaming fire ; there she must sleep for ever till there came a knight who would ride through the fire and waken her .
There he determined to go , but first he rode right down the horrible trail of Fafnir .
And Fafnir had lived in a cave with iron doors , a cave dug deep down in the earth , and full of gold bracelets , and crowns , and rings ; and there , too , Sigurd found the Helm of Dread , a golden helmet , and whoever wears it is invisible .
All these he piled on the back of the good horse Grani , and then he rode south to Hindfell .
Now it was night , and on the crest of the hill Sigurd saw a red fire blazing up into the sky , and within the flame a castle , and a banner on the topmost tower .
Then he set the horse Grani at the fire , and he leaped through it lightly , as if it had been through the heather .
So Sigurd went within the castle door , and there he saw someone sleeping , clad all in armour .
Then he took the helmet off the head of the sleeper , and behold , she was a most beautiful lady .
And she wakened and said , ` Ah !
is it Sigurd , Sigmund 's son , who has broken the curse , and comes here to waken me at last ? '
This curse came upon her when the thorn of the tree of sleep ran into her hand long ago as a punishment because she had displeased Odin the God .
Long ago , too , she had vowed never to marry a man who knew fear , and dared not ride through the fence of flaming fire .
For she was a warrior maid herself , and went armed into the battle like a man .
But now she and Sigurd loved each other , and promised to be true to each other , and he gave her a ring , and it was the last ring taken from the dwarf Andvari .
Then Sigurd rode away , and he came to the house of a King who had a fair daughter .
Her name was Gudrun , and her mother was a witch .
Now Gudrun fell in love with Sigurd , but he was always talking of Brynhild , how beautiful she was and how dear .
So one day Gudrun 's witch mother put poppy and forgetful drugs in a magical cup , and bade Sigurd drink to her health , and he drank , and instantly he forgot poor Brynhild and he loved Gudrun , and they were married with great rejoicings .
Now the witch , the mother of Gudrun , wanted her son Gunnar to marry Brynhild , and she bade him ride out with Sigurd and go and woo her .
So forth they rode to her father 's house , for Brynhild had quite gone out of Sigurd 's mind by reason of the witch 's wine , but she remembered him and loved him still .
Then Brynhild 's father told Gunnar that she would marry none but him who could ride the flame in front of her enchanted tower , and thither they rode , and Gunnar set his horse at the flame , but he would not face it .
Then Gunnar tried Sigurd 's horse Grani , but he would not move with Gunnar on his back .
Then Gunnar remembered witchcraft that his mother had taught him , and by his magic he made Sigurd look exactly like himself , and he looked exactly like Gunnar .
Then Sigurd , in the shape of Gunnar and in his mail , mounted on Grani , and Grani leaped the fence of fire , and Sigurd went in and found Brynhild , but he did not remember her yet , because of the forgetful medicine in the cup of the witch 's wine .
Now Brynhild had no help but to promise she would be his wife , the wife of Gunnar as she supposed , for Sigurd wore Gunnar 's shape , and she had sworn to wed whoever should ride the flames .
And he gave her a ring , and she gave him back the ring he had given her before in his own shape as Sigurd , and it was the last ring of that poor dwarf Andvari .
Then he rode out again , and he and Gunnar changed shapes , and each was himself again , and they went home to the witch Queen 's , and Sigurd gave the dwarf 's ring to his wife , Gudrun .
And Brynhild went to her father , and said that a King had come called Gunnar , and had ridden the fire , and she must marry him .
` Yet I thought , ' she said , ` that no man could have done this deed but Sigurd , Fafnir 's bane , who was my true love .
But he has forgotten me , and my promise I must keep . '
So Gunnar and Brynhild were married , though it was not Gunnar but Sigurd in Gunnar 's shape , that had ridden the fire .
And when the wedding was over and all the feast , then the magic of the witch 's wine went out of Sigurd 's brain , and he remembered all .
He remembered how he had freed Brynhild from the spell , and how she was his own true love , and how he had forgotten and had married another woman , and won Brynhild to be the wife of another man .
But he was brave , and he spoke not a word of it to the others to make them unhappy .
Still he could not keep away the curse which was to come on every one who owned the treasure of the dwarf Andvari , and his fatal golden ring .
And the curse soon came upon all of them .
For one day , when Brynhild and Gudrun were bathing , Brynhild waded farthest out into the river , and said she did that to show she was Guirun 's superior .
For her husband , she said , had ridden through the flame when no other man dared face it .
Then Gudrun was very angry , and said that it was Sigurd , not Gunnar , who had ridden the flame , and had received from Brynhild that fatal ring , the ring of the dwarf Andvari .
Then Brynhild saw the ring which Sigard had given to Gudrun , and she knew it and knew all , and she turned as pale as a dead woman , and went home .
All that evening she never spoke .
Next day she told Gunnar , her husband , that he was a coward and a liar , for he had never ridden the flame , but had sent Sigurd to do it for him , and pretended that he had done it himself .
And she said he would never see her glad in his hall , never drinking wine , never playing chess , never embroidering with the golden thread , never speaking words of kindness .
Then she rent all her needlework asunder and wept aloud , so that everyone in the house heard her .
For her heart was broken , and her pride was broken in the same hour .
She had lost her true love , Sigurd , the slayer of Fafnir , and she was married to a man who was a liar .
Then Sigurd came and tried to comfort her , but she would not listen , and said she wished the sword stood fast in his heart .
` Not long to wait , ' he said , 'till the bitter sword stands fast in my heart , and thou will not live long when I am dead .
But , dear Brynhild , live and be comforted , and love Gunnar thy husband , and I will give thee all the gold , the treasure of the dragon Fafnir . '
Brynhild said : ` It is too late . '
Then Sigurd was so grieved and his heart so swelled in his breast that it burst the steel rings of his shirt of mail .
Sigurd went out and Brynhild determined to slay him .
She mixed serpent 's venom and wolf 's flesh , and gave them in one dish to her husband 's younger brother , and when he had tasted them he was mad , and he went into Sigurd 's chamber while he slept and pinned him to the bed with a sword .
But Sigurd woke , and caught the sword Gram into his hand , and threw it at the man as he fled , and the sword cut him in twain .
Thus died Sigurd , Fafnir 's bane , whom no ten men could have slain in fair fight .
Then Gudrun wakened and saw him dead , and she moaned aloud , and Brynhild heard her and laughed ; but the kind horse Grani lay down and died of very grief .
And then Brynhild fell a-weeping till her heart broke .
So they attired Sigurd in all his golden armour , and built a great pile of wood on board his ship , and at night laid on it the dead Sigurd and the dead Brynhild , and the good horse , Grani , and set fire to it , and launched the ship .
And the wind bore it blazing out to sea , flaming into the dark .
So there were Sigurd and Brynhild burned together , and the curse of the dwarf Andvari was fulfilled .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Violet_Fairy_Book.txt.out
A TALE OF THE TONTLAWALD Long , long ago there stood in the midst of a country covered with lakes a vast stretch of moorland called the Tontlawald , on which no man ever dared set foot .
From time to time a few bold spirits had been drawn by curiosity to its borders , and on their return had reported that they had caught a glimpse of a ruined house in a grove of thick trees , and round about it were a crowd of beings resembling men , swarming over the grass like bees .
The men were as dirty and ragged as gipsies , and there were besides a quantity of old women and half-naked children .
One night a peasant who was returning home from a feast wandered a little farther into the Tontlawald , and came back with the same story .
A countless number of women and children were gathered round a huge fire , and some were seated on the ground , while others danced strange dances on the smooth grass .
One old crone had a broad iron ladle in her hand , with which every now and then she stirred the fire , but the moment she touched the glowing ashes the children rushed away , shrieking like night owls , and it was a long while before they ventured to steal back .
And besides all this there had once or twice been seen a little old man with a long beard creeping out of the forest , carrying a sack bigger than himself .
The women and children ran by his side , weeping and trying to drag the sack from off his back , but he shook them off , and went on his way .
There was also a tale of a magnificent black cat as large as a foal , but men could not believe all the wonders told by the peasant , and it was difficult to make out what was true and what was false in his story .
However , the fact remained that strange things did happen there , and the King of Sweden , to whom this part of the country belonged , more than once gave orders to cut down the haunted wood , but there was no one with courage enough to obey his commands .
At length one man , bolder than the rest , struck his axe into a tree , but his blow was followed by a stream of blood and shrieks as of a human creature in pain .
The terrified woodcutter fled as fast as his legs would carry him , and after that neither orders nor threats would drive anybody to the enchanted moor .
A few miles from the Tontlawald was a large village , where dwelt a peasant who had recently married a young wife .
As not uncommonly happens in such cases , she turned the whole house upside down , and the two quarrelled and fought all day long .
By his first wife the peasant had a daughter called Elsa , a good quiet girl , who only wanted to live in peace , but this her stepmother would not allow .
She beat and cuffed the poor child from morning till night , but as the stepmother had the whip-hand of her husband there was no remedy .
For two years Elsa suffered all this ill-treatment , when one day she went out with the other village children to pluck strawberries .
Carelessly they wandered on , till at last they reached the edge of the Tontlawald , where the finest strawberries grew , making the grass red with their colour .
The children flung themselves down on the ground , and , after eating as many as they wanted , began to pile up their baskets , when suddenly a cry arose from one of the older boys : ` Run , run as fast as you can !
We are in the Tontlawald ! '
Quicker than lightning they sprang to their feet , and rushed madly away , all except Elsa , who had strayed farther than the rest , and had found a bed of the finest strawberries right under the trees .
Like the others , she heard the boy 's cry , but could not make up her mind to leave the strawberries .
` After all , what does it matter ? '
thought she .
` The dwellers in the Tontlawald can not be worse than my stepmother ' ; and looking up she saw a little black dog with a silver bell on its neck come barking towards her , followed by a maiden clad all in silk .
` Be quiet , ' said she ; then turning to Elsa she added : ' I am so glad you did not run away with the other children .
Stay here with me and be my friend , and we will play delightful games together , and every day we will go and gather strawberries .
Nobody will dare to beat you if I tell them not .
Come , let us go to my mother ' ; and taking Elsa 's hand she led her deeper into the wood , the little black dog jumping up beside them and barking with pleasure .
Oh !
what wonders and splendours unfolded themselves before Elsa 's astonished eyes !
She thought she really must be in Heaven .
Fruit trees and bushes loaded with fruit stood before them , while birds gayer than the brightest butterfly sat in their branches and filled the air with their song .
And the birds were not shy , but let the girls take them in their hands , and stroke their gold and silver feathers .
In the centre of the garden was the dwelling-house , shining with glass and precious stones , and in the doorway sat a woman in rich garments , who turned to Elsa 's companion and asked : ` What sort of a guest are you bringing to me ? ' '
I found her alone in the wood , ' replied her daughter , ` and brought her back with me for a companion .
You will let her stay ? '
The mother laughed , but said nothing , only she looked Elsa up and down sharply .
Then she told the girl to come near , and stroked her cheeks and spoke kindly to her , asking if her parents were alive , and if she really would like to stay with them .
Elsa stooped and kissed her hand , then , kneeling down , buried her face in the woman 's lap , and sobbed out : ` My mother has lain for many years under the ground .
My father is still alive , but I am nothing to him , and my stepmother beats me all the day long .
I can do nothing right , so let me , I pray you , stay with you .
I will look after the flocks or do any work you tell me ; I will obey your lightest word ; only do not , I entreat you , send me back to her .
She will half kill me for not having come back with the other children . '
And the woman smiled and answered , ` Well , we will see what we can do with you , ' and , rising , went into the house .
Then the daughter said to Elsa , ` Fear nothing , my mother will be your friend .
I saw by the way she looked that she would grant your request when she had thought over it , ' and , telling Elsa to wait , she entered the house to seek her mother .
Elsa meanwhile was tossed about between hope and fear , and felt as if the girl would never come .
At last Elsa saw her crossing the grass with a box in her hand .
` My mother says we may play together to-day , as she wants to make up her mind what to do about you .
But I hope you will stay here always , as I ca n't bear you to go away .
Have you ever been on the sea ? '
` The sea ? '
asked Elsa , staring ; ` what is that ?
I 've never heard of such a thing ! '
` Oh , I 'll soon show you , ' answered the girl , taking the lid from the box , and at the very bottom lay a scrap of a cloak , a mussel shell , and two fish scales .
Two drops of water were glistening on the cloak , and these the girl shook on the ground .
In an instant the garden and lawn and everything else had vanished utterly , as if the earth had opened and swallowed them up , and as far as the eye could reach you could see nothing but water , which seemed at last to touch heaven itself .
Only under their feet was a tiny dry spot .
Then the girl placed the mussel shell on the water and took the fish scales in her hand .
The mussel shell grew bigger and bigger , and turned into a pretty little boat , which would have held a dozen children .
The girls stepped in , Elsa very cautiously , for which she was much laughed at by her friend , who used the fish scales for a rudder .
The waves rocked the girls softly , as if they were lying in a cradle , and they floated on till they met other boats filled with men , singing and making merry .
` We must sing you a song in return , ' said the girl , but as Elsa did not know any songs , she had to sing by herself .
Elsa could not understand any of the men 's songs , but one word , she noticed , came over and over again , and that was ` Kisika . '
Elsa asked what it meant , and the girl replied that it was her name .
It was all so pleasant that they might have stayed there for ever had not a voice cried out to them , ` Children , it is time for you to come home ! '
So Kisika took the little box out of her pocket , with the piece of cloth lying in it , and dipped the cloth in the water , and lo !
they were standing close to a splendid house in the middle of the garden .
Everything round them was dry and firm , and there was no water anywhere .
The mussel shell and the fish scales were put back in the box , and the girls went in .
They entered a large hall , where four and twenty richly dressed women were sitting round a table , looking as if they were about to attend a wedding .
At the head of the table sat the lady of the house in a golden chair .
Elsa did not know which way to look , for everything that met her eyes was more beautiful than she could have dreamed possible .
But she sat down with the rest , and ate some delicious fruit , and thought she must be in heaven .
The guests talked softly , but their speech was strange to Elsa , and she understood nothing of what was said .
Then the hostess turned round and whispered something to a maid behind her chair , and the maid left the hall , and when she came back she brought a little old man with her , who had a beard longer than himself .
He bowed low to the lady and then stood quietly near the door .
` Do you see this girl ? '
said the lady of the house , pointing to Elsa . '
I wish to adopt her for my daughter .
Make me a copy of her , which we can send to her native village instead of herself . '
The old man looked Elsa all up and down , as if he was taking her measure , bowed again to the lady , and left the hall .
After dinner the lady said kindly to Elsa , ` Kisika has begged me to let you stay with her , and you have told her you would like to live here .
Is that so ? '
At these words Elsa fell on her knees , and kissed the lady 's hands and feet in gratitude for her escape from her cruel stepmother ; but her hostess raised her from the ground and patted her head , saying , ` All will go well as long as you are a good , obedient child , and I will take care of you and see that you want for nothing till you are grown up and can look after yourself .
My waiting-maid , who teaches Kisika all sorts of fine handiwork , shall teach you too . '
Not long after the old man came back with a mould full of clay on his shoulders , and a little covered basket in his left hand .
He put down his mould and his basket on the ground , took up a handful of clay , and made a doll as large as life .
When it was finished he bored a hole in the doll 's breast and put a bit of bread inside ; then , drawing a snake out of the basket , forced it to enter the hollow body .
` Now , ' he said to the lady , ` all we want is a drop of the maiden 's blood . '
When she heard this Elsa grew white with horror , for she thought she was selling her soul to the evil one .
` Do not be afraid ! '
the lady hastened to say ; ` we do not want your blood for any bad purpose , but rather to give you freedom and happiness . '
Then she took a tiny golden needle , pricked Elsa in the arm , and gave the needle to the old man , who stuck it into the heart of the doll .
When this was done he placed the figure in the basket , promising that the next day they should all see what a beautiful piece of work he had finished .
When Elsa awoke the next morning in her silken bed , with its soft white pillows , she saw a beautiful dress lying over the back of a chair , ready for her to put on .
A maid came in to comb out her long hair , and brought the finest linen for her use ; but nothing gave Elsa so much joy as the little pair of embroidered shoes that she held in her hand , for the girl had hitherto been forced to run about barefoot by her cruel stepmother .
In her excitement she never gave a thought to the rough clothes she had worn the day before , which had disappeared as if by magic during the night .
Who could have taken them ?
Well , she was to know that by-and-by .
But WE can guess that the doll had been dressed in them , which was to go back to the village in her stead .
By the time the sun rose the doll had attained her full size , and no one could have told one girl from the other .
Elsa started back when she met herself as she looked only yesterday .
` You must not be frightened , ' said the lady , when she noticed her terror ; ` this clay figure can do you no harm .
It is for your stepmother , that she may beat it instead of you .
Let her flog it as hard as she will , it can never feel any pain .
And if the wicked woman does not come one day to a better mind your double will be able at last to give her the punishment she deserves . '
From this moment Elsa 's life was that of the ordinary happy child , who has been rocked to sleep in her babyhood in a lovely golden cradle .
She had no cares or troubles of any sort , and every day her tasks became easier , and the years that had gone before seemed more and more like a bad dream .
But the happier she grew the deeper was her wonder at everything around her , and the more firmly she was persuaded that some great unknown power must be at the bottom of it all .
In the courtyard stood a huge granite block about twenty steps from the house , and when meal times came round the old man with the long beard went to the block , drew out a small silver staff , and struck the stone with it three times , so that the sound could be heard a long way off .
At the third blow , out sprang a large golden cock , and stood upon the stone .
Whenever he crowed and flapped his wings the rock opened and something came out of it .
First a long table covered with dishes ready laid for the number of persons who would be seated round it , and this flew into the house all by itself .
When the cock crowed for the second time , a number of chairs appeared , and flew after the table ; then wine , apples , and other fruit , all without trouble to anybody .
After everybody had had enough , the old man struck the rock again .
The golden cock crowed afresh , and back went dishes , table , chairs , and plates into the middle of the block .
When , however , it came to the turn of the thirteenth dish , which nobody ever wanted to eat , a huge black cat ran up , and stood on the rock close to the cock , while the dish was on his other side .
There they all remained , till they were joined by the old man .
He picked up the dish in one hand , tucked the cat under his arm , told the cock to get on his shoulder , and all four vanished into the rock .
And this wonderful stone contained not only food , but clothes and everything you could possibly want in the house .
At first a language was often spoken at meals which was strange to Elsa , but by the help of the lady and her daughter she began slowly to understand it , though it was years before she was able to speak it herself .
One day she asked Kisika why the thirteenth dish came daily to the table and was sent daily away untouched , but Kisika knew no more about it than she did .
The girl must , however , have told her mother what Elsa had said , for a few days later she spoke to Elsa seriously : ` Do not worry yourself with useless wondering .
You wish to know why we never eat of the thirteenth dish ?
That , dear child , is the dish of hidden blessings , and we can not taste of it without bringing our happy life here to an end .
And the world would be a great deal better if men , in their greed , did not seek to snatch every thing for themselves , instead of leaving something as a thankoffering to the giver of the blessings .
Greed is man 's worst fault . '
The years passed like the wind for Elsa , and she grew into a lovely woman , with a knowledge of many things that she would never have learned in her native village ; but Kisika was still the same young girl that she had been on the day of her first meeting with Elsa .
Each morning they both worked for an hour at reading and writing , as they had always done , and Elsa was anxious to learn all she could , but Kisika much preferred childish games to anything else .
If the humour seized her , she would fling aside her tasks , take her treasure box , and go off to play in the sea , where no harm ever came to her .
` What a pity , ' she would often say to Elsa , ` that you have grown so big , you can not play with me any more . '
Nine years slipped away in this manner , when one day the lady called Elsa into her room .
Elsa was surprised at the summons , for it was unusual , and her heart sank , for she feared some evil threatened her .
As she crossed the threshold , she saw that the lady 's cheeks were flushed , and her eyes full of tears , which she dried hastily , as if she would conceal them from the girl .
` Dearest child , ' she began , ` the time has come when we must part . '
` Part ? '
cried Elsa , burying her head in the lady 's lap .
` No , dear lady , that can never be till death parts us .
You once opened your arms to me ; you can not thrust me away now . '
` Ah , be quiet , child , ' replied the lady ; ` you do not know what I would do to make you happy .
Now you are a woman , and I have no right to keep you here .
You must return to the world of men , where joy awaits you . '
` Dear lady , ' entreated Elsa again .
` Do not , I beseech you , send me from you .
I want no other happiness but to live and die beside you .
Make me your waiting maid , or set me to any work you choose , but do not cast me forth into the world .
It would have been better if you had left me with my stepmother , than first to have brought me to heaven and then send me back to a worse place . '
` Do not talk like that , dear child , ' replied the lady ; ` you do not know all that must be done to secure your happiness , however much it costs me .
But it has to be .
You are only a common mortal , who will have to die one day , and you can not stay here any longer .
Though we have the bodies of men , we are not men at all , though it is not easy for you to understand why .
Some day or other you will find a husband who has been made expressly for you , and will live happily with him till death separates you .
It will be very hard for me to part from you , but it has to be , and you must make up your mind to it . '
Then she drew her golden comb gently through Elsa 's hair , and bade her go to bed ; but little sleep had the poor girl !
Life seemed to stretch before her like a dark starless night .
Now let us look back a moment , and see what had been going on in Elsa 's native village all these years , and how her double had fared .
It is a well-known fact that a bad woman seldom becomes better as she grows older , and Elsa 's stepmother was no exception to the rule ; but as the figure that had taken the girl 's place could feel no pain , the blows that were showered on her night and day made no difference .
If the father ever tried to come to his daughter 's help , his wife turned upon him , and things were rather worse than before .
One day the stepmother had given the girl a frightful beating , and then threatened to kill her outright .
Mad with rage , she seized the figure by the throat with both hands , when out came a black snake from her mouth and stung the woman 's tongue , and she fell dead without a sound .
At night , when the husband came home , he found his wife lying dead upon the ground , her body all swollen and disfigured , but the girl was nowhere to be seen .
His screams brought the neighbours from their cottages , but they were unable to explain how it had all come about .
It was true , they said , that about mid-day they had heard a great noise , but as that was a matter of daily occurrence they did not think much of it .
The rest of the day all was still , but no one had seen anything of the daughter .
The body of the dead woman was then prepared for burial , and her tired husband went to bed , rejoicing in his heart that he had been delivered from the firebrand who had made his home unpleasant .
On the table he saw a slice of bread lying , and , being hungry , he ate it before going to sleep .
In the morning he too was found dead , and as swollen as his wife , for the bread had been placed in the body of the figure by the old man who made it .
A few days later he was placed in the grave beside his wife , but nothing more was ever heard of their daughter .
All night long after her talk with the lady Elsa had wept and wailed her hard fate in being cast out from her home which she loved .
Next morning , when she got up , the lady placed a gold seal ring on her finger , strung a little golden box on a ribbon , and placed it round her neck ; then she called the old man , and , forcing back her tears , took leave of Elsa .
The girl tried to speak , but before she could sob out her thanks the old man had touched her softly on the head three times with his silver staff .
In an instant Elsa knew that she was turning into a bird : wings sprang from beneath her arms ; her feet were the feet of eagles , with long claws ; her nose curved itself into a sharp beak , and feathers covered her body .
Then she soared high in the air , and floated up towards the clouds , as if she had really been hatched an eagle .
For several days she flew steadily south , resting from time to time when her wings grew tired , for hunger she never felt .
And so it happened that one day she was flying over a dense forest , and below hounds were barking fiercely , because , not having wings themselves , she was out of their reach .
Suddenly a sharp pain quivered through her body , and she fell to the ground , pierced by an arrow .
When Elsa recovered her senses , she found herself lying under a bush in her own proper form .
What had befallen her , and how she got there , lay behind her like a bad dream .
As she was wondering what she should do next the king 's son came riding by , and , seeing Elsa , sprang from his horse , and took her by the hand , sawing , ` Ah !
it was a happy chance that brought me here this morning .
Every night , for half a year , have I dreamed , dear lady , that I should one day find you in this wood .
And although I have passed through it hundreds of times in vain , I have never given up hope .
To-day I was going in search of a large eagle that I had shot , and instead of the eagle I have found -- you . '
Then he took Elsa on his horse , and rode with her to the town , where the old king received her graciously .
A few days later the wedding took place , and as Elsa was arranging the veil upon her hair fifty carts arrived laden with beautiful things which the lady of the Tontlawald had sent to Elsa .
And after the king 's death Elsa became queen , and when she was old she told this story .
But that was the last that was ever heard of the Tontlawald .
-LRB- From Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FINEST LIAR IN THE WORLD At the edge of a wood there lived an old man who had only one son , and one day he called the boy to him and said he wanted some corn ground , but the youth must be sure never to enter any mill where the miller was beardless .
The boy took the corn and set out , and before he had gone very far he saw a large mill in front of him , with a beardless man standing in the doorway .
` Good greeting , beardless one ! '
cried he .
` Good greeting , sonny , ' replied the man .
` Could I grind something here ? '
` Yes , certainly !
I will finish what I am doing and then you can grind as long as you like . '
But suddenly the boy remembered what his father had told him , and bade farewell to the man , and went further down the river , till he came to another mill , not knowing that as soon as his back was turned the beardless man had picked up a bag of corn and run hastily to the same mill before him .
When the boy reached the second mill , and saw a second beardless man sitting there , he did not stop , and walked on till he came to a third mill .
But this time also the beardless man had been too clever for him , and had arrived first by another road .
When it happened a fourth time the boy grew cross , and said to himself , ` It is no good going on ; there seems to be a beardless man in every mill ' ; and he took his sack from his back , and made up his mind to grind his corn where he was .
The beardless man finished grinding his own corn , and when he had done he said to the boy , who was beginning to grind his , ` Suppose , sonny , we make a cake of what you have there . '
Now the boy had been rather uneasy when he recollected his father 's words , but he thought to himself , ` What is done can not be undone , ' and answered , ` Very well , so let it be . '
Then the beardless one got up , threw the flour into the tub , and made a hole in the middle , telling the boy to fetch some water from the river in his two hands , to mix the cake .
When the cake was ready for baking they put it on the fire , and covered it with hot ashes , till it was cooked through .
Then they leaned it up against the wall , for it was too big to go into a cupboard , and the beardless one said to the boy : ` Look here , sonny : if we share this cake we shall neither of us have enough .
Let us see who can tell the biggest lie , and the one who lies the best shall have the whole cake . '
The boy , not knowing what else to do , answered , ` All right ; you begin . '
So the beardless one began to lie with all his might , and when he was tired of inventing new lies the boy said to him , ` My good fellow , if THAT is all you can do it is not much !
Listen to me , and I will tell you a true story .
` In my youth , when I was an old man , we had a quantity of beehives .
Every morning when I got up I counted them over , and it was quite easy to number the bees , but I never could reckon the hives properly .
One day , as I was counting the bees , I discovered that my best bee was missing , and without losing a moment I saddled a cock and went out to look for him .
I traced him as far as the shore , and knew that he had crossed the sea , and that I must follow .
When I had reached the other side I found a man had harnessed my bee to a plough , and with his help was sowing millet seed . '
`` That is my bee ! ''
I shouted .
`` Where did you get him from ? '' '
`` Brother , '' replied the man , `` if he is yours , take him . ''
And he not only gave me back my bee , but a sack of millet seed into the bargain , because he had made use of my bee .
Then I put the bag on my shoulders , took the saddle from the cock , and placed it on the back of the bee , which I mounted , leading the cock by a string , so that he should have a rest .
As we were flying home over the sea one of the strings that held the bag of millet broke in two , and the sack dropped straight into the ocean .
It was quite lost , of course , and there was no use thinking about it , and by the time we were safe back again night had come .
I then got down from my bee , and let him loose , that he might get his supper , gave the cock some hay , and went to sleep myself .
But when I awoke with the sun what a scene met my eyes !
During the night wolves had come and had eaten my bee .
And honey lay ankle-deep in the valley and knee-deep on the hills .
Then I began to consider how I could best collect some , to take home with me .
` Now it happened that I had with me a small hatchet , and this I took to the wood , hoping to meet some animal which I could kill , whose skin I might turn into a bag .
As I entered the forest I saw two roe-deer hopping on one foot , so I slew them with a single blow , and made three bags from their skins , all of which I filled with honey and placed on the back of the cock .
At length I reached home , where I was told that my father had just been born , and that I must go at once to fetch some holy water to sprinkle him with .
As I went I turned over in my mind if there was no way for me to get back my millet seed , which had dropped into the sea , and when I arrived at the place with the holy water I saw the seed had fallen on fruitful soil , and was growing before my eyes .
And more than that , it was even cut by an invisible hand , and made into a cake .
` So I took the cake as well as the holy water , and was flying back with them over the sea , when there fell a great rain , and the sea was swollen , and swept away my millet cake .
Ah , how vexed I was at its loss when I was safe on earth again .
` Suddenly I remembered that my hair was very long .
If I stood it touched the ground , although if I was sitting it only reached my ears .
I seized a knife and cut off a large lock , which I plaited together , and when night came tied it into a knot , and prepared to use it for a pillow .
But what was I to do for a fire ?
A tinder box I had , but no wood .
Then it occurred to me that I had stuck a needle in my clothes , so I took the needle and split it in pieces , and lit it , then laid myself down by the fire and went to sleep .
But ill-luck still pursued me .
While I was sleeping a spark from the fire lighted on the hair , which was burnt up in a moment .
In despair I threw myself on the ground , and instantly sank in it as far as my waist .
I struggled to get out , but only fell in further ; so I ran to the house , seized a spade , dug myself out , and took home the holy water .
On the way I noticed that the ripe fields were full of reapers , and suddenly the air became so frightfully hot that the men dropped down in a faint .
Then I called to them , `` Why do n't you bring out our mare , which is as tall as two days , and as broad as half a day , and make a shade for yourselves ? ''
My father heard what I said and jumped quickly on the mare , and the reapers worked with a will in the shadow , while I snatched up a wooden pail to bring them some water to drink .
When I got to the well everything was frozen hard , so in order to draw some water I had to take off my head and break the ice with it .
As I drew near them , carrying the water , the reapers all cried out , `` Why , what has become of your head ? ''
I put up my hand and discovered that I really had no head , and that I must have left it in the well .
I ran back to look for it , but found that meanwhile a fox which was passing by had pulled my head out of the water , and was tearing at my brains .
I stole cautiously up to him , and gave him such a kick that he uttered a loud scream , and let fall a parchment on which was written , `` The cake is mine , and the beardless one goes empty-handed . '' '
With these words the boy rose , took the cake , and went home , while the beardless one remained behind to swallow his disappointment .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE STORY OF THREE WONDERFUL BEGGARS There once lived a merchant whose name was Mark , and whom people called ` Mark the Rich . '
He was a very hard-hearted man , for he could not bear poor people , and if he caught sight of a beggar anywhere near his house , he would order the servants to drive him away , or would set the dogs at him .
One day three very poor old men came begging to the door , and just as he was going to let the fierce dogs loose on them , his little daughter , Anastasia , crept close up to him and said : ` Dear daddy , let the poor old men sleep here to-night , do -- to please me . '
Her father could not bear to refuse her , and the three beggars were allowed to sleep in a loft , and at night , when everyone in the house was fast asleep , little Anastasia got up , climbed up to the loft , and peeped in .
The three old men stood in the middle of the loft , leaning on their sticks , with their long grey beards flowing down over their hands , and were talking together in low voices .
` What news is there ? '
asked the eldest .
` In the next village the peasant Ivan has just had his seventh son .
What shall we name him , and what fortune shall we give him ? '
said the second .
The third whispered , ` Call him Vassili , and give him all the property of the hard-hearted man in whose loft we stand , and who wanted to drive us from his door . '
After a little more talk the three made themselves ready and crept softly away .
Anastasia , who had heard every word , ran straight to her father , and told him all .
Mark was very much surprised ; he thought , and thought , and in the morning he drove to the next village to try and find out if such a child really had been born .
He went first to the priest , and asked him about the children in his parish .
` Yesterday , ' said the priest , ' a boy was born in the poorest house in the village .
I named the unlucky little thing `` Vassili . ''
He is the seventh son , and the eldest is only seven years old , and they hardly have a mouthful amongst them all .
Who can be got to stand godfather to such a little beggar boy ? '
The merchant 's heart beat fast , and his mind was full of bad thoughts about that poor little baby .
He would be godfather himself , he said , and he ordered a fine christening feast ; so the child was brought and christened , and Mark was very friendly to its father .
After the ceremony was over he took Ivan aside and said : ` Look here , my friend , you are a poor man .
How can you afford to bring up the boy ?
Give him to me and I 'll make something of him , and I 'll give you a present of a thousand crowns .
Is that a bargain ? '
Ivan scratched his head , and thought , and thought , and then he agreed .
Mark counted out the money , wrapped the baby up in a fox skin , laid it in the sledge beside him , and drove back towards home .
When he had driven some miles he drew up , carried the child to the edge of a steep precipice and threw it over , muttering , ` There , now try to take my property ! '
Very soon after this some foreign merchants travelled along that same road on the way to see Mark and to pay the twelve thousand crowns which they owed him .
As they were passing near the precipice they heard a sound of crying , and on looking over they saw a little green meadow wedged in between two great heaps of snow , and on the meadow lay a baby amongst the flowers .
The merchants picked up the child , wrapped it up carefully , and drove on .
When they saw Mark they told him what a strange thing they had found .
Mark guessed at once that the child must be his godson , asked to see him , and said : ` That 's a nice little fellow ; I should like to keep him .
If you will make him over to me , I will let you off your debt . '
The merchants were very pleased to make so good a bargain , left the child with Mark , and drove off .
At night Mark took the child , put it in a barrel , fastened the lid tight down , and threw it into the sea .
The barrel floated away to a great distance , and at last it floated close up to a monastery .
The monks were just spreading out their nets to dry on the shore , when they heard the sound of crying .
It seemed to come from the barrel which was bobbing about near the water 's edge .
They drew it to land and opened it , and there was a little child !
When the abbot heard the news , he decided to bring up the boy , and named him ` Vassili . '
The boy lived on with the monks , and grew up to be a clever , gentle , and handsome young man .
No one could read , write , or sing better than he , and he did everything so well that the abbot made him wardrobe keeper .
Now , it happened about this time that the merchant , Mark , came to the monastery in the course of a journey .
The monks were very polite to him and showed him their house and church and all they had .
When he went into the church the choir was singing , and one voice was so clear and beautiful , that he asked who it belonged to .
Then the abbot told him of the wonderful way in which Vassili had come to them , and Mark saw clearly that this must be his godson whom he had twice tried to kill .
He said to the abbot : ' I ca n't tell you how much I enjoy that young man 's singing .
If he could only come to me I would make him overseer of all my business .
As you say , he is so good and clever .
Do spare him to me .
I will make his fortune , and will present your monastery with twenty thousand crowns . '
The abbot hesitated a good deal , but he consulted all the other monks , and at last they decided that they ought not to stand in the way of Vassili 's good fortune .
Then Mark wrote a letter to his wife and gave it to Vassili to take to her , and this was what was in the letter : ` When the bearer of this arrives , take him into the soap factory , and when you pass near the great boiler , push him in .
If you do n't obey my orders I shall be very angry , for this young man is a bad fellow who is sure to ruin us all if he lives . '
Vassili had a good voyage , and on landing set off on foot for Mark 's home .
On the way he met three beggars , who asked him : ` Where are you going , Vassili ? ' '
I am going to the house of Mark the Merchant , and have a letter for his wife , ' replied Vassili .
` Show us the letter . '
Vassili handed them the letter .
They blew on it and gave it back to him , saying : ` Now go and give the letter to Mark 's wife .
You will not be forsaken . '
Vassili reached the house and gave the letter .
When the mistress read it she could hardly believe her eyes and called for her daughter .
In the letter was written , quite plainly : ` When you receive this letter , get ready for a wedding , and let the bearer be married next day to my daughter , Anastasia .
If you do n't obey my orders I shall be very angry . '
Anastasia saw the bearer of the letter and he pleased her very much .
They dressed Vassili in fine clothes and next day he was married to Anastasia .
In due time , Mark returned from his travels .
His wife , daughter , and son-in-law all went out to meet him .
When Mark saw Vassili he flew into a terrible rage with his wife .
` How dared you marry my daughter without my consent ? '
he asked . '
I only carried out your orders , ' said she .
` Here is your letter . '
Mark read it .
It certainly was his handwriting , but by no means his wishes .
` Well , ' thought he , ` you 've escaped me three times , but I think I shall get the better of you now . '
And he waited a month and was very kind and pleasant to his daughter and her husband .
At the end of that time he said to Vassili one day , ' I want you to go for me to my friend the Serpent King , in his beautiful country at the world 's end .
Twelve years ago he built a castle on some land of mine .
I want you to ask for the rent for those twelve years and also to find out from him what has become of my twelve ships which sailed for his country three years ago . '
Vassili dared not disobey .
He said good-bye to his young wife , who cried bitterly at parting , hung a bag of biscuits over his shoulders , and set out .
I really can not tell you whether the journey was long or short .
As he tramped along he suddenly heard a voice saying : ` Vassili !
where are you going ? '
Vassili looked about him , and , seeing no one , called out : ` Who spoke to me ? ' '
I did ; this old wide-spreading oak .
Tell me where you are going . ' '
I am going to the Serpent King to receive twelve years ' rent from him . '
` When the time comes , remember me and ask the king : `` Rotten to the roots , half dead but still green , stands the old oak .
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? '' '
Vassili went on further .
He came to a river and got into the ferryboat .
The old ferryman asked : ` Are you going far , my friend ? ' '
I am going to the Serpent King . '
` Then think of me and say to the king : `` For thirty years the ferryman has rowed to and fro .
Will the tired old man have to row much longer ? '' '
` Very well , ' said Vassili ; ` I 'll ask him . '
And he walked on .
In time he came to a narrow strait of the sea and across it lay a great whale over whose back people walked and drove as if it had been a bridge or a road .
As he stepped on it the whale said , ` Do tell me where you are going . ' '
I am going to the Serpent King . '
And the whale begged : ` Think of me and say to the king : `` The poor whale has been lying three years across the strait , and men and horses have nearly trampled his back into his ribs .
Is he to lie there much longer ? '' ' '
I will remember , ' said Vassili , and he went on .
He walked , and walked , and walked , till he came to a great green meadow .
In the meadow stood a large and splendid castle .
Its white marble walls sparkled in the light , the roof was covered with mother o ' pearl , which shone like a rainbow , and the sun glowed like fire on the crystal windows .
Vassili walked in , and went from one room to another astonished at all the splendour he saw .
When he reached the last room of all , he found a beautiful girl sitting on a bed .
As soon as she saw him she said : ` Oh , Vassili , what brings you to this accursed place ? '
Vassili told her why he had come , and all he had seen and heard on the way .
The girl said : ` You have not been sent here to collect rents , but for your own destruction , and that the serpent may devour you . '
She had not time to say more , when the whole castle shook , and a rustling , hissing , groaning sound was heard .
The girl quickly pushed Vassili into a chest under the bed , locked it and whispered : ` Listen to what the serpent and I talk about . '
Then she rose up to receive the Serpent King .
The monster rushed into the room , and threw itself panting on the bed , crying : ` I 've flown half over the world .
I 'm tired , VERY tired , and want to sleep -- scratch my head . '
The beautiful girl sat down near him , stroking his hideous head , and said in a sweet coaxing voice : ` You know everything in the world .
After you left , I had such a wonderful dream .
Will you tell me what it means ? '
` Out with it then , quick !
What was it ? ' '
I dreamt I was walking on a wide road , and an oak tree said to me : `` Ask the king this : Rotten at the roots , half dead , and yet green stands the old oak .
Is it to stand much longer on the earth ? '' '
` It must stand till some one comes and pushes it down with his foot .
Then it will fall , and under its roots will be found more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich has got . '
` Then I dreamt I came to a river , and the old ferryman said to me : `` For thirty year 's the ferryman has rowed to and fro .
Will the tired old man have to row much longer ? '' '
` That depends on himself .
If some one gets into the boat to be ferried across , the old man has only to push the boat off , and go his way without looking back .
The man in the boat will then have to take his place . '
` And at last I dreamt that I was walking over a bridge made of a whale 's back , and the living bridge spoke to me and said : `` Here have I been stretched out these three years , and men and horses have trampled my back down into my ribs .
Must I lie here much longer ? '' '
` He will have to lie there till he has thrown up the twelve ships of Mark the Rich which he swallowed .
Then he may plunge back into the sea and heal his back . '
And the Serpent King closed his eyes , turned round on his other side , and began to snore so loud that the windows rattled .
In all haste the lovely girl helped Vassili out of the chest , and showed him part of his way back .
He thanked her very politely , and hurried off .
When he reached the strait the whale asked : ` Have you thought of me ? '
` Yes , as soon as I am on the other side I will tell you what you want to know . '
When he was on the other side Vassili said to the whale : ` Throw up those twelve ships of Mark 's which you swallowed three years ago . '
The great fish heaved itself up and threw up all the twelve ships and their crews .
Then he shook himself for joy , and plunged into the sea .
Vassili went on further till he reached the ferry , where the old man asked : ` Did you think of me ? '
` Yes , and as soon as you have ferried me across I will tell you what you want to know . '
When they had crossed over , Vassili said : ` Let the next man who comes stay in the boat , but do you step on shore , push the boat off , and you will be free , and the other man must take your place .
Then Vassili went on further still , and soon came to the old oak tree , pushed it with his foot , and it fell over .
There , at the roots , was more gold and silver than even Mark the Rich had .
And now the twelve ships which the whale had thrown up came sailing along and anchored close by .
On the deck of the first ship stood the three beggars whom Vassili had met formerly , and they said : ` Heaven has blessed you , Vassili . '
Then they vanished away and he never saw them again .
The sailors carried all the gold and silver into the ship , and then they set sail for home with Vassili on board .
Mark was more furious than ever .
He had his horses harnessed and drove off himself to see the Serpent King and to complain of the way in which he had been betrayed .
When he reached the river he sprang into the ferryboat .
The ferryman , however , did not get in but pushed the boat off ... Vassili led a good and happy life with his dear wife , and his kind mother-in-law lived with them .
He helped the poor and fed and clothed the hungry and naked and all Mark 's riches became his .
For many years Mark has been ferrying people across the river .
His face is wrinkled , his hair and beard are snow white , and his eyes are dim ; but still he rows on .
-LRB- From the Serbian . -RRB-
SCHIPPEITARO It was the custom in old times that as soon as a Japanese boy reached manhood he should leave his home and roam through the land in search of adventures .
Sometimes he would meet with a young man bent on the same business as himself , and then they would fight in a friendly manner , merely to prove which was the stronger , but on other occasions the enemy would turn out to be a robber , who had become the terror of the neighbourhood , and then the battle was in deadly earnest .
One day a youth started off from his native village , resolved never to come back till he had done some great deed that would make his name famous .
But adventures did not seem very plentiful just then , and he wandered about for a long time without meeting either with fierce giants or distressed damsels .
At last he saw in the distance a wild mountain , half covered with a dense forest , and thinking that this promised well at once took the road that led to it .
The difficulties he met with -- huge rocks to be climbed , deep rivers to be crossed , and thorny tracts to be avoided -- only served to make his heart beat quicker , for he was really brave all through , and not merely when he could not help himself , like a great many people .
But in spite of all his efforts he could not find his way out of the forest , and he began to think he should have to pass the night there .
Once more he strained his eyes to see if there was no place in which he could take shelter , and this time he caught sight of a small chapel in a little clearing .
He hastened quickly towards it , and curling himself up in a warm corner soon fell asleep .
Not a sound was heard through the whole forest for some hours , but at midnight there suddenly arose such a clamour that the young man , tired as he was , started broad awake in an instant .
Peeping cautiously between the wooden pillars of the chapel , he saw a troop of hideous cats , dancing furiously , making the night horrible with their yells .
The full moon lighted up the weird scene , and the young warrior gazed with astonishment , taking great care to keep still , lest he should be discovered .
After some time he thought that in the midst of all their shrieks he could make out the words , ` Do not tell Schippeitaro !
Keep it hidden and secret !
Do not tell Schippeitaro ! '
Then , the midnight hour having passed , they all vanished , and the youth was left alone .
Exhausted by all that had been going on round him , he flung himself on the ground and slept till the sun rose .
The moment he woke he felt very hungry , and began to think how he could get something to eat .
So he got up and walked on , and before he had gone very far was lucky enough to find a little side-path , where he could trace men 's footsteps .
He followed the track , and by-and-by came on some scattered huts , beyond which lay a village .
Delighted at this discovery , he was about to hasten to the village when he heard a woman 's voice weeping and lamenting , and calling on the men to take pity on her and help her .
The sound of her distress made him forget he was hungry , and he strode into the hut to find out for himself what was wrong .
But the men whom he asked only shook their heads and told him it was not a matter in which he could give any help , for all this sorrow was caused by the Spirit of the Mountain , to whom every year they were bound to furnish a maiden for him to eat .
` To-morrow night , ' said they , ` the horrible creature will come for his dinner , and the cries you have heard were uttered by the girl before you , upon whom the lot has fallen . '
And when the young man asked if the girl was carried off straight from her home , they answered no , but that a large cask was set in the forest chapel , and into this she was fastened .
As he listened to this story , the young man was filled with a great longing to rescue the maiden from her dreadful fate .
The mention of the chapel set him thinking of the scene of the previous night , and he went over all the details again in his mind .
` Who is Schippeitaro ? '
he suddenly asked ; ` can any of you tell me ? '
` Schippeitaro is the great dog that belongs to the overseer of our prince , ' said they ; ` and he lives not far away . '
And they began to laugh at the question , which seemed to them so odd and useless .
The young man did not laugh with them , but instead left the hut and went straight to the owner of the dog , whom he begged to lend him the animal just for one night .
Schippeitaro 's master was not at all willing to give him in charge to a man of whom he knew nothing , but in the end he consented , and the youth led the dog away , promising faithfully to return him next day to his master .
He next hurried to the hut where the maiden lived , and entreated her parents to shut her up safely in a closet , after which he took Schippeitaro to the cask , and fastened him into it .
In the evening he knew that the cask would be placed in the chapel , so he hid himself there and waited .
At midnight , when the full moon appeared above the top of the mountain , the cats again filled the chapel and shrieked and yelled and danced as before .
But this time they had in their midst a huge black cat who seemed to be their king , and whom the young man guessed to be the Spirit of the Mountain .
The monster looked eagerly about him , and his eyes sparkled with joy when he saw the cask .
He bounded high into the air with delight and uttered cries of pleasure ; then he drew near and undid the bolts .
But instead of fastening his teeth in the neck of a beautiful maiden , Schippeitaro 's teeth were fastened in HIM , and the youth ran up and cut off his head with his sword .
The other cats were so astonished at the turn things had taken that they forgot to run away , and the young man and Schippeitaro between them killed several more before they thought of escaping .
At sunrise the brave dog was taken back to his master , and from that time the mountain girls were safe , and every year a feast was held in memory of the young warrior and the dog Schippeitaro .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE THREE PRINCES AND THEIR BEASTS -LRB- LITHUANIAN FAIRY TALE -RRB- Once on a time there were three princes , who had a step-sister .
One day they all set out hunting together .
When they had gone some way through a thick wood they came on a great grey wolf with three cubs .
Just as they were going to shoot , the wolf spoke and said , ` Do not shoot me , and I will give each of you one of my young ones .
It will be a faithful friend to you . '
So the princes went on their way , and a little wolf followed each of them .
Soon after they came on a lioness with three cubs .
And she too begged them not to shoot her , and she would give each of them a cub .
And so it happened with a fox , a hare , a boar , and a bear , till each prince had quite a following of young beasts padding along behind him .
Towards evening they came to a clearing in the wood , where three birches grew at the crossing of three roads .
The eldest prince took an arrow , and shot it into the trunk of one of the birch trees .
Turning to his brothers he said : ` Let each of us mark one of these trees before we part on different ways .
When any one of us comes back to this place , he must walk round the trees of the other two , and if he sees blood flowing from the mark in the tree he will know that that brother is dead , but if milk flows he will know that his brother is alive . '
So each of the princes did as the eldest brother had said , and when the three birches were marked by their arrows they turned to their step-sister and asked her with which of them she meant to live .
` With the eldest , ' she answered .
Then the brothers separated from each other , and each of them set out down a different road , followed by their beasts .
And the step-sister went with the eldest prince .
After they had gone a little way along the road they came into a forest , and in one of the deepest glades they suddenly found themselves opposite a castle in which there lived a band of robbers .
The prince walked up to the door and knocked .
The moment it was opened the beasts rushed in , and each seized on a robber , killed him , and dragged the body down to the cellar .
Now , one of the robbers was not really killed , only badly wounded , but he lay quite still and pretended to be dead like the others .
Then the prince and his step-sister entered the castle and took up their abode in it .
The next morning the prince went out hunting .
Before leaving he told his step-sister that she might go into every room in the house except into the cave where the dead robbers lay .
But as soon as his back was turned she forgot what he had said , and having wandered through all the other rooms she went down to the cellar and opened the door .
As soon as she looked in the robber who had only pretended to be dead sat up and said to her : ` Do n't be afraid .
Do what I tell you , and I will be your friend .
If you marry me you will be much happier with me than with your brother .
But you must first go into the sitting-room and look in the cupboard .
There you will find three bottles .
In one of them there is a healing ointment which you must put on my chin to heal the wound ; then if I drink the contents of the second bottle it will make me well , and the third bottle will make me stronger than I ever was before .
Then , when your brother comes back from the wood with his beasts you must go to him and say , `` Brother , you are very strong .
If I were to fasten your thumbs behind your back with a stout silk cord , could you wrench yourself free ? ''
And when you see that he can not do it , call me . '
When the brother came home , the step-sister did as the robber had told her , and fastened her brother 's thumbs behind his back .
But with one wrench he set himself free , and said to her , ` Sister , that cord is not strong enough for me . '
The next day he went back to the wood with his beasts , and the robber told her that she must take a much stouter cord to bind his thumbs with .
But again he freed himself , though not so easily as the first time , and he said to his sister : ` Even that cord is not strong enough . '
The third day , on his return from the wood he consented to have his strength tested for the last time .
So she took a very strong cord of silk , which she had prepared by the robber 's advice , and this time , though the prince pulled and tugged with all his might , he could not break the cord .
So he called to her and said : ` Sister , this time the cord is so strong I can not break it .
Come and unfasten it for me . '
But instead of coming she called to the robber , who rushed into the room brandishing a knife , with which he prepared to attack the prince .
But the prince spoke and said : ` Have patience for one minute .
I would like before I die to blow three blasts on my hunting horn -- one in this room , one on the stairs , and one in the courtyard . '
So the robber consented , and the prince blew the horn .
At the first blast , the fox , which was asleep in the cage in the courtyard , awoke , and knew that his master needed help .
So he awoke the wolf by flicking him across the eyes with his brush .
Then they awoke the lion , who sprang against the door of the cage with might and main , so that it fell in splinters on the ground , and the beasts were free .
Rushing through the court to their master 's aid , the fox gnawed the cord in two that bound the prince 's thumbs behind his back , and the lion flung himself on the robber , and when he had killed him and torn him in pieces each of the beasts carried off a bone .
Then the prince turned to the step-sister and said : ' I will not kill you , but I will leave you here to repent . '
And he fastened her with a chain to the wall , and put a great bowl in front of her and said , ' I will not see you again till you have filled this bowl with your tears . '
So saying , he called his beasts , and set out on his travels .
When he had gone a little way he came to an inn .
Everyone in the inn seemed so sad that he asked them what was the matter .
` Ah , ' replied they , ` to-day our king 's daughter is to die .
She is to be handed over to a dreadful nine-headed dragon . '
Then the prince said : ` Why should she die ?
I am very strong , I will save her . '
And he set out to the sea-shore , where the dragon was to meet the princess .
And as he waited with his beasts round him a great procession came along , accompanying the unfortunate princess : and when the shore was reached all the people left her , and returned sadly to their houses .
But the prince remained , and soon he saw a movement in the water a long way off .
As it came nearer , he knew what it was , for skimming swiftly along the waters came a monster dragon with nine heads .
Then the prince took counsel with his beasts , and as the dragon approached the shore the fox drew his brush through the water and blinded the dragon by scattering the salt water in his eyes , while the bear and the lion threw up more water with their paws , so that the monster was bewildered and could see nothing .
Then the prince rushed forward with his sword and killed the dragon , and the beasts tore the body in pieces .
Then the princess turned to the prince and thanked him for delivering her from the dragon , and she said to him : ` Step into this carriage with me , and we will drive back to my father 's palace . '
And she gave him a ring and half of her handkerchief .
But on the way back the coachman and footman spoke to one another and said : ` Why should we drive this stranger back to the palace ?
Let us kill him , and then we can say to the king that we slew the dragon and saved the princess , and one of us shall marry her . '
So they killed the prince , and left him dead on the roadside .
And the faithful beasts came round the dead body and wept , and wondered what they should do .
Then suddenly the wolf had an idea , and he started off into the wood , where he found an ox , which he straightway killed .
Then he called the fox , and told him to mount guard over the dead ox , and if a bird came past and tried to peck at the flesh he was to catch it and bring it to the lion .
Soon after a crow flew past , and began to peck at the dead ox .
In a moment the fox had caught it and brought it to the lion .
Then the lion said to the crow : ` We will not kill you if you will promise to fly to the town where there are three wells of healing and to bring back water from them in your beak to make this dead man alive . '
So the crow flew away , and she filled her beak at the well of healing , the well of strength , and the well of swiftness , and she flew back to the dead prince and dropped the water from her beak upon his lips , and he was healed , and could sit up and walk .
Then he set out for the town , accompanied by his faithful beasts .
And when they reached the king 's palace they found that preparations for a great feast were being made , for the princess was to marry the coachman .
So the prince walked into the palace , and went straight up to the coachman and said : ` What token have you got that you killed the dragon and won the hand of the princess ?
I have her token here -- this ring and half her handkerchief . '
And when the king saw these tokens he knew that the prince was speaking the truth .
So the coachman was bound in chains and thrown into prison , and the prince was married to the princess and rewarded with half the kingdom .
One day , soon after his marriage , the prince was walking through the woods in the evening , followed by his faithful beasts .
Darkness came on , and he lost his way , and wandered about among the trees looking for the path that would lead him back to the palace .
As he walked he saw the light of a fire , and making his way to it he found an old woman raking sticks and dried leaves together , and burning them in a glade of the wood .
As he was very tired , and the night was very dark , the prince determined not to wander further .
So he asked the old woman if he might spend the night beside her fire .
` Of course you may , ' she answered .
` But I am afraid of your beasts .
Let me hit them with my rod , and then I shall not be afraid of them . '
` Very well , ' said the prince , ' I do n't mind ' ; and she stretched out her rod and hit the beasts , and in one moment they were turned into stone , and so was the prince .
Now soon after this the prince 's youngest brother came to the cross-roads with the three birches , where the brothers had parted from each other when they set out on their wanderings .
Remembering what they had agreed to do , he walked round the two trees , and when he saw that blood oozed from the cut in the eldest prince 's tree he knew that his brother must be dead .
So he set out , followed by his beasts , and came to the town over which his brother had ruled , and where the princess he had married lived .
And when he came into the town all the people were in great sorrow because their prince had disappeared .
But when they saw his youngest brother , and the beasts following him , they thought it was their own prince , and they rejoiced greatly , and told him how they had sought him everywhere .
Then they led him to the king , and he too thought that it was his son-in-law .
But the princess knew that he was not her husband , and she begged him to go out into the woods with his beasts , and to look for his brother till he found him .
So the youngest prince set out to look for his brother , and he too lost his way in the wood and night overtook him .
Then he came to the clearing among the trees , where the fire was burning and where the old woman was raking sticks and leaves into the flames .
And he asked her if he might spend the night beside her fire , as it was too late and too dark to go back to the town .
And she answered : ` Certainly you may .
But I am afraid of your beasts .
May I give them a stroke with my rod , then I shall not be afraid of them . '
And he said she might , for he did not know that she was a witch .
So she stretched out her rod , and in a moment the beasts and their master were turned into stone .
It happened soon after that the second brother returned from his wanderings and came to the cross-roads where the three birches grew .
As he went round the trees he saw that blood poured from the cuts in the bark of two of the trees .
Then he wept and said : ` Alas !
both my brothers are dead . '
And he too set out towards the town in which his brother had ruled , and his faithful beasts followed him .
When he entered the town , all the people thought it was their own prince come back to them , and they gathered round him , as they had gathered round his youngest brother , and asked him where he had been and why he had not returned .
And they led him to the king 's palace , but the princess knew that he was not her husband .
So when they were alone together she besought him to go and seek for his brother and bring him home .
Calling his beasts round him , he set out and wandered through the woods .
And he put his ear down to the earth , to listen if he could hear the sound of his brother 's beasts .
And it seemed to him as if he heard a faint sound far off , but he did not know from what direction it came .
So he blew on his hunting horn and listened again .
And again he heard the sound , and this time it seemed to come from the direction of a fire burning in the wood .
So he went towards the fire , and there the old woman was raking sticks and leaves into the embers .
And he asked her if he might spend the night beside her fire .
But she told him she was afraid of his beasts , and he must first allow her to give each of them a stroke with her rod .
But he answered her : ` Certainly not .
I am their master , and no one shall strike them but I myself .
Give me the rod ' ; and he touched the fox with it , and in a moment it was turned into stone .
Then he knew that the old woman was a witch , and he turned to her and said : ` Unless you restore my brothers and their beasts back to life at once , my lion will tear you in pieces . '
Then the witch was terrified , and taking a young oak tree she burnt it into white ashes , and sprinkled the ashes on the stones that stood around .
And in a moment the two princes stood before their brother , and their beasts stood round them .
Then the three princes set off together to the town .
And the king did not know which was his son-in-law , but the princess knew which was her husband , and there were great rejoicings throughout the land .
THE GOAT 'S EARS OF THE EMPEROR TROJAN Once upon a time there lived an emperor whose name was Trojan , and he had ears like a goat .
Every morning , when he was shaved , he asked if the man saw anything odd about him , and as each fresh barber always replied that the emperor had goat 's ears , he was at once ordered to be put to death .
Now after this state of things had lasted a good while , there was hardly a barber left in the town that could shave the emperor , and it came to be the turn of the Master of the Company of Barbers to go up to the palace .
But , unluckily , at the very moment that he should have set out , the master fell suddenly ill , and told one of his apprentices that he must go in his stead .
When the youth was taken to the emperor 's bedroom , he was asked why he had come and not his master .
The young man replied that the master was ill , and there was no one but himself who could be trusted with the honour .
The emperor was satisfied with the answer , and sat down , and let a sheet of fine linen be put round him .
Directly the young barber began his work , he , like the rest , remarked the goat 's ears of the emperor , but when he had finished and the emperor asked his usual question as to whether the youth had noticed anything odd about him , the young man replied calmly , ` No , nothing at all . '
This pleased the emperor so much that he gave him twelve ducats , and said , ` Henceforth you shall come every day to shave me . '
So when the apprentice returned home , and the master inquired how he had got on with the emperor , the young man answered , ` Oh , very well , and he says I am to shave him every day , and he has given me these twelve ducats ' ; but he said nothing about the goat 's ears of the emperor .
From this time the apprentice went regularly up to the palace , receiving each morning twelve ducats in payment .
But after a while , his secret , which he had carefully kept , burnt within him , and he longed to tell it to somebody .
His master saw there was something on his mind , and asked what it was .
The youth replied that he had been tormenting himself for some months , and should never feel easy until some one shared his secret .
` Well , trust me , ' said the master , ' I will keep it to myself ; or , if you do not like to do that , confess it to your pastor , or go into some field outside the town and dig a hole , and , after you have dug it , kneel down and whisper your secret three times into the hole .
Then put back the earth and come away . '
The apprentice thought that this seemed the best plan , and that very afternoon went to a meadow outside the town , dug a deep hole , then knelt and whispered to it three times over , ` The Emperor Trojan has goat 's ears . '
And as he said so a great burden seemed to roll off him , and he shovelled the earth carefully back and ran lightly home .
Weeks passed away , and there sprang up in the hole an elder tree which had three stems , all as straight as poplars .
Some shepherds , tending their flocks near by , noticed the tree growing there , and one of them cut down a stem to make flutes of ; but , directly he began to play , the flute would do nothing but sing : ` The Emperor Trojan has goat 's ears . '
Of course , it was not long before the whole town knew of this wonderful flute and what it said ; and , at last , the news reached the emperor in his palace .
He instantly sent for the apprentice and said to him : ` What have you been saying about me to all my people ? '
The culprit tried to defend himself by saying that he had never told anyone what he had noticed ; but the emperor , instead of listening , only drew his sword from its sheath , which so frightened the poor fellow that he confessed exactly what he had done , and how he had whispered the truth three times to the earth , and how in that very place an elder tree had sprung up , and flutes had been cut from it , which would only repeat the words he had said .
Then the emperor commanded his coach to be made ready , and he took the youth with him , and they drove to the spot , for he wished to see for himself whether the young man 's confession was true ; but when they reached the place only one stem was left .
So the emperor desired his attendants to cut him a flute from the remaining stem , and , when it was ready , he ordered his chamberlain to play on it .
But no tune could the chamberlain play , though he was the best flute player about the court -- nothing came but the words , ` The Emperor Trojan has goat 's ears . '
Then the emperor knew that even the earth gave up its secrets , and he granted the young man his life , but he never allowed him to be his barber any more .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE NINE PEA-HENS AND THE GOLDEN APPLES Once upon a time there stood before the palace of an emperor a golden apple tree , which blossomed and bore fruit each night .
But every morning the fruit was gone , and the boughs were bare of blossom , without anyone being able to discover who was the thief .
At last the emperor said to his eldest son , ` If only I could prevent those robbers from stealing my fruit , how happy I should be ! '
And his son replied , ' I will sit up to-night and watch the tree , and I shall soon see who it is ! '
So directly it grew dark the young man went and hid himself near the apple tree to begin his watch , but the apples had scarcely begun to ripen before he fell asleep , and when he awoke at sunrise the apples were gone .
He felt very much ashamed of himself , and went with lagging feet to tell his father !
Of course , though the eldest son had failed , the second made sure that he would do better , and set out gaily at nightfall to watch the apple tree .
But no sooner had he lain himself down than his eyes grew heavy , and when the sunbeams roused him from his slumbers there was not an apple left on the tree .
Next came the turn of the youngest son , who made himself a comfortable bed under the apple tree , and prepared himself to sleep .
Towards midnight he awoke , and sat up to look at the tree .
And behold !
the apples were beginning to ripen , and lit up the whole palace with their brightness .
At the same moment nine golden pea-hens flew swiftly through the air , and while eight alighted upon the boughs laden with fruit , the ninth fluttered to the ground where the prince lay , and instantly was changed into a beautiful maiden , more beautiful far than any lady in the emperor 's court .
The prince at once fell in love with her , and they talked together for some time , till the maiden said her sisters had finished plucking the apples , and now they must all go home again .
The prince , however , begged her so hard to leave him a little of the fruit that the maiden gave him two apples , one for himself and one for his father .
Then she changed herself back into a pea-hen , and the whole nine flew away .
As soon as the sun rose the prince entered the palace , and held out the apple to his father , who was rejoiced to see it , and praised his youngest son heartily for his cleverness .
That evening the prince returned to the apple tree , and everything passed as before , and so it happened for several nights .
At length the other brothers grew angry at seeing that he never came back without bringing two golden apples with him , and they went to consult an old witch , who promised to spy after him , and discover how he managed to get the apples .
So , when the evening came , the old woman hid herself under the tree and waited for the prince .
Before long he arrived and laid down on his bed , and was soon fast asleep .
Towards midnight there was a rush of wings , and the eight pea-hens settled on the tree , while the ninth became a maiden , and ran to greet the prince .
Then the witch stretched out her hand , and cut off a lock of the maiden 's hair , and in an instant the girl sprang up , a pea-hen once more , spread her wings and flew away , while her sisters , who were busily stripping the boughs , flew after her .
When he had recovered from his surprise at the unexpected disappearance of the maiden , the prince exclaimed , ` What can be the matter ? '
and , looking about him , discovered the old witch hidden under the bed .
He dragged her out , and in his fury called his guards , and ordered them to put her to death as fast as possible .
But that did no good as far as the pea-hens went .
They never came back any more , though the prince returned to the tree every night , and wept his heart out for his lost love .
This went on for some time , till the prince could bear it no longer , and made up his mind he would search the world through for her .
In vain his father tried to persuade him that his task was hopeless , and that other girls were to be found as beautiful as this one .
The prince would listen to nothing , and , accompanied by only one servant , set out on his quest .
After travelling for many days , he arrived at length before a large gate , and through the bars he could see the streets of a town , and even the palace .
The prince tried to pass in , but the way was barred by the keeper of the gate , who wanted to know who he was , why he was there , and how he had learnt the way , and he was not allowed to enter unless the empress herself came and gave him leave .
A message was sent to her , and when she stood at the gate the prince thought he had lost his wits , for there was the maiden he had left his home to seek .
And she hastened to him , and took his hand , and drew him into the palace .
In a few days they were married , and the prince forgot his father and his brothers , and made up his mind that he would live and die in the castle .
One morning the empress told him that she was going to take a walk by herself , and that she would leave the keys of twelve cellars to his care .
` If you wish to enter the first eleven cellars , ' said she , ` you can ; but beware of even unlocking the door of the twelfth , or it will be the worse for you . '
The prince , who was left alone in the castle , soon got tired of being by himself , and began to look about for something to amuse him .
` What CAN there be in that twelfth cellar , ' he thought to himself , ` which I must not see ? '
And he went downstairs and unlocked the doors , one after the other .
When he got to the twelfth he paused , but his curiosity was too much for him , and in another instant the key was turned and the cellar lay open before him .
It was empty , save for a large cask , bound with iron hoops , and out of the cask a voice was saying entreatingly , ` For goodness ' sake , brother , fetch me some water ; I am dying of thirst ! '
The prince , who was very tender-hearted , brought some water at once , and pushed it through a hole in the barrel ; and as he did so one of the iron hoops burst .
He was turning away , when a voice cried the second time , ` Brother , for pity 's sake fetch me some water ; I 'm dying of thirst ! '
So the prince went back , and brought some more water , and again a hoop sprang .
And for the third time the voice still called for water ; and when water was given it the last hoop was rent , the cask fell in pieces , and out flew a dragon , who snatched up the empress just as she was returning from her walk , and carried her off .
Some servants who saw what had happened came rushing to the prince , and the poor young man went nearly mad when he heard the result of his own folly , and could only cry out that he would follow the dragon to the ends of the earth , until he got his wife again .
For months and months he wandered about , first in this direction and then in that , without finding any traces of the dragon or his captive .
At last he came to a stream , and as he stopped for a moment to look at it he noticed a little fish lying on the bank , beating its tail convulsively , in a vain effort to get back into the water .
` Oh , for pity 's sake , my brother , ' shrieked the little creature , ` help me , and put me back into the river , and I will repay you some day .
Take one of my scales , and when you are in danger twist it in your fingers , and I will come ! '
The prince picked up the fish and threw it into the water ; then he took off one of its scales , as he had been told , and put it in his pocket , carefully wrapped in a cloth .
Then he went on his way till , some miles further down the road , he found a fox caught in a trap .
` Oh !
be a brother to me ! '
called the fox , ` and free me from this trap , and I will help you when you are in need .
Pull out one of my hairs , and when you are in danger twist it in your fingers , and I will come . '
So the prince unfastened the trap , pulled out one of the fox 's hairs , and continued his journey .
And as he was going over the mountain he passed a wolf entangled in a snare , who begged to be set at liberty .
` Only deliver me from death , ' he said , ` and you will never be sorry for it .
Take a lock of my fur , and when you need me twist it in your fingers . '
And the prince undid the snare and let the wolf go .
For a long time he walked on , without having any more adventures , till at length he met a man travelling on the same road .
` Oh , brother ! '
asked the prince , ` tell me , if you can , where the dragon-emperor lives ? '
The man told him where he would find the palace , and how long it would take him to get there , and the prince thanked him , and followed his directions , till that same evening he reached the town where the dragon-emperor lived .
When he entered the palace , to his great joy he found his wife sitting alone in a vast hall , and they began hastily to invent plans for her escape .
There was no time to waste , as the dragon might return directly , so they took two horses out of the stable , and rode away at lightning speed .
Hardly were they out of sight of the palace than the dragon came home and found that his prisoner had flown .
He sent at once for his talking horse , and said to him : ` Give me your advice ; what shall I do -- have my supper as usual , or set out in pursuit of them ? '
` Eat your supper with a free mind first , ' answered the horse , ` and follow them afterwards . '
So the dragon ate till it was past mid-day , and when he could eat no more he mounted his horse and set out after the fugitives .
In a short time he had come up with them , and as he snatched the empress out of her saddle he said to the prince : ` This time I will forgive you , because you brought me the water when I was in the cask ; but beware how you return here , or you will pay for it with your life . '
Half mad with grief , the prince rode sadly on a little further , hardly knowing what he was doing .
Then he could bear it no longer and turned back to the palace , in spite of the dragon 's threats .
Again the empress was sitting alone , and once more they began to think of a scheme by which they could escape the dragon 's power .
` Ask the dragon when he comes home , ' said the prince , ` where he got that wonderful horse from , and then you can tell me , and I will try to find another like it . '
Then , fearing to meet his enemy , he stole out of the castle .
Soon after the dragon came home , and the empress sat down near him , and began to coax and flatter him into a good humour , and at last she said : ` But tell me about that wonderful horse you were riding yesterday .
There can not be another like it in the whole world .
Where did you get it from ? '
And he answered : ` The way I got it is a way which no one else can take .
On the top of a high mountain dwells an old woman , who has in her stables twelve horses , each one more beautiful than the other .
And in one corner is a thin , wretched-looking animal whom no one would glance at a second time , but he is in reality the best of the lot .
He is twin brother to my own horse , and can fly as high as the clouds themselves .
But no one can ever get this horse without first serving the old woman for three whole days .
And besides the horses she has a foal and its mother , and the man who serves her must look after them for three whole days , and if he does not let them run away he will in the end get the choice of any horse as a present from the old woman .
But if he fails to keep the foal and its mother safe on any one of the three nights his head will pay . '
The next day the prince watched till the dragon left the house , and then he crept in to the empress , who told him all she had learnt from her gaoler .
The prince at once determined to seek the old woman on the top of the mountain , and lost no time in setting out .
It was a long and steep climb , but at last he found her , and with a low bow he began : ` Good greeting to you , little mother ! '
` Good greeting to you , my son !
What are you doing here ? ' '
I wish to become your servant , ' answered he .
` So you shall , ' said the old woman .
` If you can take care of my mare for three days I will give you a horse for wages , but if you let her stray you will lose your head ' ; and as she spoke she led him into a courtyard surrounded with palings , and on every post a man 's head was stuck .
One post only was empty , and as they passed it cried out : ` Woman , give me the head I am waiting for ! '
The old woman made no answer , but turned to the prince and said : ` Look !
all those men took service with me , on the same conditions as you , but not one was able to guard the mare ! '
But the prince did not waver , and declared he would abide by his words .
When evening came he led the mare out of the stable and mounted her , and the colt ran behind .
He managed to keep his seat for a long time , in spite of all her efforts to throw him , but at length he grew so weary that he fell fast asleep , and when he woke he found himself sitting on a log , with the halter in his hands .
He jumped up in terror , but the mare was nowhere to be seen , and he started with a beating heart in search of her .
He had gone some way without a single trace to guide him , when he came to a little river .
The sight of the water brought back to his mind the fish whom he had saved from death , and he hastily drew the scale from his pocket .
It had hardly touched his fingers when the fish appeared in the stream beside him .
` What is it , my brother ? '
asked the fish anxiously .
` The old woman 's mare strayed last night , and I do n't know where to look for her . '
` Oh , I can tell you that : she has changed herself into a big fish , and her foal into a little one .
But strike the water with the halter and say , `` Come here , O mare of the mountain witch ! ''
and she will come . '
The prince did as he was bid , and the mare and her foal stood before him .
Then he put the halter round her neck , and rode her home , the foal always trotting behind them .
The old woman was at the door to receive them , and gave the prince some food while she led the mare back to the stable .
` You should have gone among the fishes , ' cried the old woman , striking the animal with a stick . '
I did go among the fishes , ' replied the mare ; ` but they are no friends of mine , for they betrayed me at once . '
` Well , go among the foxes this time , ' said she , and returned to the house , not knowing that the prince had overheard her .
So when it began to grow dark the prince mounted the mare for the second time and rode into the meadows , and the foal trotted behind its mother .
Again he managed to stick on till midnight : then a sleep overtook him that he could not battle against , and when he woke up he found himself , as before , sitting on the log , with the halter in his hands .
He gave a shriek of dismay , and sprang up in search of the wanderers .
As he went he suddenly remembered the words that the old woman had said to the mare , and he drew out the fox hair and twisted it in his fingers .
` What is it , my brother ? '
asked the fox , who instantly appeared before him .
` The old witch 's mare has run away from me , and I do not know where to look for her . '
` She is with us , ' replied the fox , ` and has changed herself into a big fox , and her foal into a little one , but strike the ground with a halter and say , `` Come here , O mare of the mountain witch ! '' '
The prince did so , and in a moment the fox became a mare and stood before him , with the little foal at her heels .
He mounted and rode back , and the old woman placed food on the table , and led the mare back to the stable .
` You should have gone to the foxes , as I told you , ' said she , striking the mare with a stick . '
I did go to the foxes , ' replied the mare , ` but they are no friends of mine and betrayed me . '
` Well , this time you had better go to the wolves , ' said she , not knowing that the prince had heard all she had been saying .
The third night the prince mounted the mare and rode her out to the meadows , with the foal trotting after .
He tried hard to keep awake , but it was of no use , and in the morning there he was again on the log , grasping the halter .
He started to his feet , and then stopped , for he remembered what the old woman had said , and pulled out the wolf 's grey lock .
` What is it , my brother ? '
asked the wolf as it stood before him .
` The old witch 's mare has run away from me , ' replied the prince , ` and I do n't know where to find her . '
` Oh , she is with us , ' answered the wolf , ` and she has changed herself into a she-wolf , and the foal into a cub ; but strike the earth here with the halter , and cry , `` Come to me , O mare of the mountain witch . '' '
The prince did as he was bid , and as the hair touched his fingers the wolf changed back into a mare , with the foal beside her .
And when he had mounted and ridden her home the old woman was on the steps to receive them , and she set some food before the prince , but led the mare back to her stable .
` You should have gone among the wolves , ' said she , striking her with a stick .
` So I did , ' replied the mare , ` but they are no friends of mine and betrayed me . '
The old woman made no answer , and left the stable , but the prince was at the door waiting for her . '
I have served you well , ' said he , ` and now for my reward . '
` What I promised that will I perform , ' answered she .
` Choose one of these twelve horses ; you can have which you like . '
` Give me , instead , that half-starved creature in the corner , ' asked the prince . '
I prefer him to all those beautiful animals . '
` You ca n't really mean what you say ? '
replied the woman .
` Yes , I do , ' said the prince , and the old woman was forced to let him have his way .
So he took leave of her , and put the halter round his horse 's neck and led him into the forest , where he rubbed him down till his skin was shining like gold .
Then he mounted , and they flew straight through the air to the dragon 's palace .
The empress had been looking for him night and day , and stole out to meet him , and he swung her on to his saddle , and the horse flew off again .
Not long after the dragon came home , and when he found the empress was missing he said to his horse , ` What shall we do ?
Shall we eat and drink , or shall we follow the runaways ? '
and the horse replied , ` Whether you eat or do n't eat , drink or do n't drink , follow them or stay at home , matters nothing now , for you can never , never catch them . '
But the dragon made no reply to the horse 's words , but sprang on his back and set off in chase of the fugitives .
And when they saw him coming they were frightened , and urged the prince 's horse faster and faster , till he said , ` Fear nothing ; no harm can happen to us , ' and their hearts grew calm , for they trusted his wisdom .
Soon the dragon 's horse was heard panting behind , and he cried out , ` Oh , my brother , do not go so fast !
I shall sink to the earth if I try to keep up with you . '
And the prince 's horse answered , ` Why do you serve a monster like that ?
Kick him off , and let him break in pieces on the ground , and come and join us . '
And the dragon 's horse plunged and reared , and the dragon fell on a rock , which broke him in pieces .
Then the empress mounted his horse , and rode back with her husband to her kingdom , over which they ruled for many years .
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
THE LUTE PLAYER Once upon a time there was a king and queen who lived happily and comfortably together .
They were very fond of each other and had nothing to worry them , but at last the king grew restless .
He longed to go out into the world , to try his strength in battle against some enemy and to win all kinds of honour and glory .
So he called his army together and gave orders to start for a distant country where a heathen king ruled who ill-treated or tormented everyone he could lay his hands on .
The king then gave his parting orders and wise advice to his ministers , took a tender leave of his wife , and set off with his army across the seas .
I can not say whether the voyage was short or long ; but at last he reached the country of the heathen king and marched on , defeating all who came in his way .
But this did not last long , for in time he came to a mountain pass , where a large army was waiting for him , who put his soldiers to flight , and took the king himself prisoner .
He was carried off to the prison where the heathen king kept his captives , and now our poor friend had a very bad time indeed .
All night long the prisoners were chained up , and in the morning they were yoked together like oxen and had to plough the land till it grew dark .
This state of things went on for three years before the king found any means of sending news of himself to his dear queen , but at last he contrived to send this letter : ` Sell all our castles and palaces , and put all our treasures in pawn and come and deliver me out of this horrible prison . '
The queen received the letter , read it , and wept bitterly as she said to herself , ` How can I deliver my dearest husband ?
If I go myself and the heathen king sees me he will just take me to be one of his wives .
If I were to send one of the ministers !
-- but I hardly know if I can depend on them . '
She thought , and thought , and at last an idea came into her head .
She cut off all her beautiful long brown hair and dressed herself in boy 's clothes .
Then she took her lute and , without saying anything to anyone , she went forth into the wide world .
She travelled through many lands and saw many cities , and went through many hardships before she got to the town where the heathen king lived .
When she got there she walked all round the palace and at the back she saw the prison .
Then she went into the great court in front of the palace , and taking her lute in her hand , she began to play so beautifully that one felt as though one could never hear enough .
After she had played for some time she began to sing , and her voice was sweeter than the lark 's : ' I come from my own country far Into this foreign land , Of all I own I take alone My sweet lute in my hand .
` Oh !
who will thank me for my song , Reward my simple lay ?
Like lover 's sighs it still shall rise To greet thee day by day . '
I sing of blooming flowers Made sweet by sun and rain ; Of all the bliss of love 's first kiss , And parting 's cruel pain .
` Of the sad captive 's longing Within his prison wall , Of hearts that sigh when none are nigh To answer to their call .
` My song begs for your pity , And gifts from out your store , And as I play my gentle lay I linger near your door .
` And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh !
give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart 's desire . '
No sooner had the heathen king heard this touching song sung by such a lovely voice , than he had the singer brought before him .
` Welcome , O lute player , ' said he .
` Where do you come from ? '
` My country , sire , is far away across many seas .
For years I have been wandering about the world and gaining my living by my music . '
` Stay here then a few days , and when you wish to leave I will give you what you ask for in your song -- your heart 's desire . '
So the lute player stayed on in the palace and sang and played almost all day long to the king , who could never tire of listening and almost forgot to eat or drink or to torment people .
He cared for nothing but the music , and nodded his head as he declared , ` That 's something like playing and singing .
It makes me feel as if some gentle hand had lifted every care and sorrow from me . '
After three days the lute player came to take leave of the king .
` Well , ' said the king , ` what do you desire as your reward ? '
` Sire , give me one of your prisoners .
You have so many in your prison , and I should be glad of a companion on my journeys .
When I hear his happy voice as I travel along I shall think of you and thank you . '
` Come along then , ' said the king , ` choose whom you will . '
And he took the lute player through the prison himself .
The queen walked about amongst the prisoners , and at length she picked out her husband and took him with her on her journey .
They were long on their way , but he never found out who she was , and she led him nearer and nearer to his own country .
When they reached the frontier the prisoner said : ` Let me go now , kind lad ; I am no common prisoner , but the king of this country .
Let me go free and ask what you will as your reward . '
` Do not speak of reward , ' answered the lute player .
` Go in peace . '
` Then come with me , dear boy , and be my guest . '
` When the proper time comes I shall be at your palace , ' was the reply , and so they parted .
The queen took a short way home , got there before the king and changed her dress .
An hour later all the people in the palace were running to and fro and crying out : ` Our king has come back !
Our king has returned to us . '
The king greeted every one very kindly , but he would not so much as look at the queen .
Then he called all his council and ministers together and said to them : ` See what sort of a wife I have .
Here she is falling on my neck , but when I was pining in prison and sent her word of it she did nothing to help me . '
And his council answered with one voice , ` Sire , when news was brought from you the queen disappeared and no one knew where she went .
She only returned to-day . '
Then the king was very angry and cried , ` Judge my faithless wife !
Never would you have seen your king again , if a young lute player had not delivered him .
I shall remember him with love and gratitude as long as I live . '
Whilst the king was sitting with his council , the queen found time to disguise herself .
She took her lute , and slipping into the court in front of the palace she sang , clear and sweet : ' I sing the captive 's longing Within his prison wall , Of hearts that sigh when none are nigh To answer to their call .
` My song begs for your pity , And gifts from out your store , And as I play my gentle lay I linger near your door .
` And if you hear my singing Within your palace , sire , Oh !
give , I pray , this happy day , To me my heart 's desire . '
As soon as the king heard this song he ran out to meet the lute player , took him by the hand and led him into the palace .
` Here , ' he cried , ` is the boy who released me from my prison .
And now , my true friend , I will indeed give you your heart 's desire . ' '
I am sure you will not be less generous than the heathen king was , sire .
I ask of you what I asked and obtained from him .
But this time I do n't mean to give up what I get .
I want YOU -- yourself ! '
And as she spoke she threw off her long cloak and everyone saw it was the queen .
Who can tell how happy the king was ?
In the joy of his heart he gave a great feast to the whole world , and the whole world came and rejoiced with him for a whole week .
I was there too , and ate and drank many good things .
I sha 'n' t forget that feast as long as I live .
-LRB- From the Russian . -RRB-
THE GRATEFUL PRINCE Once upon a time the king of the Goldland lost himself in a forest , and try as he would he could not find the way out .
As he was wandering down one path which had looked at first more hopeful than the rest he saw a man coming towards him .
` What are you doing here , friend ? '
asked the stranger ; ` darkness is falling fast , and soon the wild beasts will come from their lairs to seek for food . ' '
I have lost myself , ' answered the king , ` and am trying to get home . '
` Then promise me that you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house , and I will show you the way , ' said the stranger .
The king did not answer directly , but after awhile he spoke : ` Why should I give away my BEST sporting dog .
I can surely find my way out of the forest as well as this man . '
So the stranger left him , but the king followed path after path for three whole days , with no better success than before .
He was almost in despair , when the stranger suddenly appeared , blocking up his way .
` Promise you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house to meet you ? '
But still the king was stiff-necked and would promise nothing .
For some days longer he wandered up and down the forest , trying first one path , then another , but his courage at last gave way , and he sank wearily on the ground under a tree , feeling sure his last hour had come .
Then for the third time the stranger stood before the king , and said : ` Why are you such a fool ?
What can a dog be to you , that you should give your life for him like this ?
Just promise me the reward I want , and I will guide you out of the forest . '
` Well , my life is worth more than a thousand dogs , ' answered the king , ` the welfare of my kingdom depends on me .
I accept your terms , so take me to my palace . '
Scarcely had he uttered the words than he found himself at the edge of the wood , with the palace in the dim distance .
He made all the haste he could , and just as he reached the great gates out came the nurse with the royal baby , who stretched out his arms to his father .
The king shrank back , and ordered the nurse to take the baby away at once .
Then his great boarhound bounded up to him , but his caresses were only answered by a violent push .
When the king 's anger was spent , and he was able to think what was best to be done , he exchanged his baby , a beautiful boy , for the daughter of a peasant , and the prince lived roughly as the son of poor people , while the little girl slept in a golden cradle , under silken sheets .
At the end of a year , the stranger arrived to claim his property , and took away the little girl , believing her to be the true child of the king .
The king was so delighted with the success of his plan that he ordered a great feast to be got ready , and gave splendid presents to the foster parents of his son , so that he might lack nothing .
But he did not dare to bring back the baby , lest the trick should be found out .
The peasants were quite contented with this arrangement , which gave them food and money in abundance .
By-and-by the boy grew big and tall , and seemed to lead a happy life in the house of his foster parents .
But a shadow hung over him which really poisoned most of his pleasure , and that was the thought of the poor innocent girl who had suffered in his stead , for his foster father had told him in secret , that he was the king 's son .
And the prince determined that when he grew old enough he would travel all over the world , and never rest till he had set her free .
To become king at the cost of a maiden 's life was too heavy a price to pay .
So one day he put on the dress of a farm servant , threw a sack of peas on his back , and marched straight into the forest where eighteen years before his father had lost himself .
After he had walked some way he began to cry loudly : ` Oh , how unlucky I am !
Where can I be ?
Is there no one to show me the way out of the wood ? '
Then appeared a strange man with a long grey beard , with a leather bag hanging from his girdle .
He nodded cheerfully to the prince , and said : ' I know this place well , and can lead you out of it , if you will promise me a good reward . '
` What can a beggar such as I promise you ? '
answered the prince . '
I have nothing to give you save my life ; even the coat on my back belongs to my master , whom I serve for my keep and my clothes . '
The stranger looked at the sack of peas , and said , ` But you must possess something ; you are carrying this sack , which seems to be very heavy . '
` It is full of peas , ' was the reply .
` My old aunt died last night , without leaving money enough to buy peas to give the watchers , as is the custom throughout the country .
I have borrowed these peas from my master , and thought to take a short cut across the forest ; but I have lost myself , as you see . '
` Then you are an orphan ? '
asked the stranger .
` Why should you not enter my service ?
I want a sharp fellow in the house , and you please me . '
` Why not , indeed , if we can strike a bargain ? '
said the other . '
I was born a peasant , and strange bread is always bitter , so it is the same to me whom I serve !
What wages will you give me ? '
` Every day fresh food , meat twice a week , butter and vegetables , your summer and winter clothes , and a portion of land for your own use . ' '
I shall be satisfied with that , ' said the youth .
` Somebody else will have to bury my aunt .
I will go with you ! '
Now this bargain seemed to please the old fellow so much that he spun round like a top , and sang so loud that the whole wood rang with his voice .
Then he set out with his companion , and chattered so fast that he never noticed that his new servant kept dropping peas out of the sack .
At night they slept under a fig tree , and when the sun rose started on their way .
About noon they came to a large stone , and here the old fellow stopped , looked carefully round , gave a sharp whistle , and stamped three times on the ground with his left foot .
Suddenly there appeared under the stone a secret door , which led to what looked like the mouth of a cave .
The old fellow seized the youth by the arm , and said roughly , ` Follow me ! '
Thick darkness surrounded them , yet it seemed to the prince as if their path led into still deeper depths .
After a long while he thought he saw a glimmer of light , but the light was neither that of the sun nor of the moon .
He looked eagerly at it , but found it was only a kind of pale cloud , which was all the light this strange underworld could boast .
Earth and water , trees and plants , birds and beasts , each was different from those he had seen before ; but what most struck terror into his heart was the absolute stillness that reigned everywhere .
Not a rustle or a sound could be heard .
Here and there he noticed a bird sitting on a branch , with head erect and swelling throat , but his ear caught nothing .
The dogs opened their mouths as if to bark , the toiling oxen seemed about to bellow , but neither bark nor bellow reached the prince .
The water flowed noiselessly over the pebbles , the wind bowed the tops of the trees , flies and chafers darted about , without breaking the silence .
The old greybeard uttered no word , and when his companion tried to ask him the meaning of it all he felt that his voice died in his throat .
How long this fearful stillness lasted I do not know , but the prince gradually felt his heart turning to ice , his hair stood up like bristles , and a cold chill was creeping down his spine , when at last -- oh , ecstasy !
-- a faint noise broke on his straining ears , and this life of shadows suddenly became real .
It sounded as if a troop of horses were ploughing their way over a moor .
Then the greybeard opened his mouth , and said : ` The kettle is boiling ; we are expected at home . '
They walked on a little further , till the prince thought he heard the grinding of a saw-mill , as if dozens of saws were working together , but his guide observed , ` The grandmother is sleeping soundly ; listen how she snores . '
When they had climbed a hill which lay before them the prince saw in the distance the house of his master , but it was so surrounded with buildings of all kinds that the place looked more like a village or even a small town .
They reached it at last , and found an empty kennel standing in front of the gate .
` Creep inside this , ' said the master , ` and wait while I go in and see my grandmother .
Like all very old people , she is very obstinate , and can not bear fresh faces about her . '
The prince crept tremblingly into the kennel , and began to regret the daring which had brought him into this scrape .
By-and-by the master came back , and called him from his hiding-place .
Something had put out his temper , for with a frown he said , ` Watch carefully our ways in the house , and beware of making any mistake , or it will go ill with you .
Keep your eyes and ears open , and your mouth shut , obey without questions .
Be grateful if you will , but never speak unless you are spoken to . '
When the prince stepped over the threshold he caught sight of a maiden of wonderful beauty , with brown eyes and fair curly hair .
` Well ! '
the young man said to himself , ` if the old fellow has many daughters like that I should not mind being his son-in-law .
This one is just what I admire ' ; and he watched her lay the table , bring in the food , and take her seat by the fire as if she had never noticed that a strange man was present .
Then she took out a needle and thread , and began to darn her stockings .
The master sat at table alone , and invited neither his new servant nor the maid to eat with him .
Neither was the old grandmother anywhere to be seen .
His appetite was tremendous : he soon cleared all the dishes , and ate enough to satisfy a dozen men .
When at last he could eat no more he said to the girl , ` Now you can pick up the pieces , and take what is left in the iron pot for your own dinner , but give the bones to the dog . '
The prince did not at all like the idea of dining off scraps , which he helped the girl to pick up , but , after all , he found that there was plenty to eat , and that the food was very good .
During the meal he stole many glances at the maiden , and would even have spoken to her , but she gave him no encouragement .
Every time he opened his mouth for the purpose she looked at him sternly , as if to say , ` Silence , ' so he could only let his eyes speak for him .
Besides , the master was stretched on a bench by the oven after his huge meal , and would have heard everything .
After supper that night , the old man said to the prince , ` For two days you may rest from the fatigues of the journey , and look about the house .
But the day after to-morrow you must come with me , and I will point out the work you have to do .
The maid will show you where you are to sleep . '
The prince thought , from this , he had leave to speak , but his master turned on him with a face of thunder and exclaimed : ` You dog of a servant !
If you disobey the laws of the house you will soon find yourself a head shorter !
Hold your tongue , and leave me in peace . '
The girl made a sign to him to follow her , and , throwing open a door , nodded to him to go in .
He would have lingered a moment , for he thought she looked sad , but dared not do so , for fear of the old man 's anger .
` It is impossible that she can be his daughter ! '
he said to himself , ` for she has a kind heart .
I am quite sure she must be the same girl who was brought here instead of me , so I am bound to risk my head in this mad adventure . '
He got into bed , but it was long before he fell asleep , and even then his dreams gave him no rest .
He seemed to be surrounded by dangers , and it was only the power of the maiden who helped him through it all .
When he woke his first thoughts were for the girl , whom he found hard at work .
He drew water from the well and carried it to the house for her , kindled the fire under the iron pot , and , in fact , did everything that came into his head that could be of any use to her .
In the afternoon he went out , in order to learn something of his new home , and wondered greatly not to come across the old grandmother .
In his rambles he came to the farmyard , where a beautiful white horse had a stall to itself ; in another was a black cow with two white-faced calves , while the clucking of geese , ducks , and hens reached him from a distance .
Breakfast , dinner , and supper were as savoury as before , and the prince would have been quite content with his quarters had it not been for the difficulty of keeping silence in the presence of the maiden .
On the evening of the second day he went , as he had been told , to receive his orders for the following morning . '
I am going to set you something very easy to do to-morrow , ' said the old man when his servant entered .
` Take this scythe and cut as much grass as the white horse will want for its day 's feed , and clean out its stall .
If I come back and find the manger empty it will go ill with you .
So beware ! '
The prince left the room , rejoicing in his heart , and saying to himself , ` Well , I shall soon get through that !
If I have never yet handled either the plough or the scythe , at least I have often watched the country people work them , and know how easy it is . '
He was just going to open his door , when the maiden glided softly past and whispered in his ear : ` What task has he set you ? '
` For to-morrow , ' answered the prince , ` it is really nothing at all !
Just to cut hay for the horse , and to clean out his stall ! '
` Oh , luckless being ! '
sighed the girl ; ` how will you ever get through with it .
The white horse , who is our master 's grandmother , is always hungry : it takes twenty men always mowing to keep it in food for one day , and another twenty to clean out its stall .
How , then , do you expect to do it all by yourself ?
But listen to me , and do what I tell you .
It is your only chance .
When you have filled the manger as full as it will hold you must weave a strong plait of the rushes which grow among the meadow hay , and cut a thick peg of stout wood , and be sure that the horse sees what you are doing .
Then it will ask you what it is for , and you will say , ` With this plait I intend to bind up your mouth so that you can not eat any more , and with this peg I am going to keep you still in one spot , so that you can not scatter your corn and water all over the place ! '
After these words the maiden went away as softly as she had come .
Early the next morning he set to work .
His scythe danced through the grass much more easily than he had hoped , and soon he had enough to fill the manger .
He put it in the crib , and returned with a second supply , when to his horror he found the crib empty .
Then he knew that without the maiden 's advice he would certainly have been lost , and began to put it into practice .
He took out the rushes which had somehow got mixed up with the hay , and plaited them quickly .
` My son , what are you doing ? '
asked the horse wonderingly .
` Oh , nothing ! '
replied he .
` Just weaving a chin strap to bind your jaws together , in case you might wish to eat any more ! '
The white horse sighed deeply when it heard this , and made up its mind to be content with what it had eaten .
The youth next began to clean out the stall , and the horse knew it had found a master ; and by mid-day there was still fodder in the manger , and the place was as clean as a new pin .
He had barely finished when in walked the old man , who stood astonished at the door .
` Is it really you who have been clever enough to do that ? '
he asked .
` Or has some one else given you a hint ? '
` Oh , I have had no help , ' replied the prince , ` except what my poor weak head could give me . '
The old man frowned , and went away , and the prince rejoiced that everything had turned out so well .
In the evening his master said , ` To-morrow I have no special task to set you , but as the girl has a great deal to do in the house you must milk the black cow for her .
But take care you milk her dry , or it may be the worse for you . '
` Well , ' thought the prince as he went away , ` unless there is some trick behind , this does not sound very hard .
I have never milked a cow before , but I have good strong fingers . '
He was very sleepy , and was just going toward his room , when the maiden came to him and asked : ` What is your task to-morrow ? ' '
I am to help you , ' he answered , ` and have nothing to do all day , except to milk the black cow dry . '
` Oh , you are unlucky , ' cried she .
` If you were to try from morning till night you could n't do it .
There is only one way of escaping the danger , and that is , when you go to milk her , take with you a pan of burning coals and a pair of tongs .
Place the pan on the floor of the stall , and the tongs on the fire , and blow with all your might , till the coals burn brightly .
The black cow will ask you what is the meaning of all this , and you must answer what I will whisper to you . '
And she stood on tip-toe and whispered something in his ear , and then went away .
The dawn had scarcely reddened the sky when the prince jumped out of bed , and , with the pan of coals in one hand and the milk pail in the other , went straight to the cow 's stall , and began to do exactly as the maiden had told him the evening before .
The black cow watched him with surprise for some time , and then said : ` What are you doing , sonny ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' answered he ; ' I am only heating a pair of tongs in case you may not feel inclined to give as much milk as I want . '
The cow sighed deeply , and looked at the milkman with fear , but he took no notice , and milked briskly into the pail , till the cow ran dry .
Just at that moment the old man entered the stable , and sat down to milk the cow himself , but not a drop of milk could he get .
` Have you really managed it all yourself , or did somebody help you ? ' '
I have nobody to help me , ' answered the prince , ` but my own poor head . '
The old man got up from his seat and went away .
That night , when the prince went to his master to hear what his next day 's work was to be , the old man said : ' I have a little hay-stack out in the meadow which must be brought in to dry .
To-morrow you will have to stack it all in the shed , and , as you value your life , be careful not to leave the smallest strand behind . '
The prince was overjoyed to hear he had nothing worse to do .
` To carry a little hay-rick requires no great skill , ' thought he , ` and it will give me no trouble , for the horse will have to draw it in .
I am certainly not going to spare the old grandmother . '
By-and-by the maiden stole up to ask what task he had for the next day .
The young man laughed , and said : ` It appears that I have got to learn all kinds of farmer 's work .
To-morrow I have to carry a hay-rick , and leave not a stalk in the meadow , and that is my whole day 's work ! '
` Oh , you unlucky creature ! '
cried she ; ` and how do you think you are to do it .
If you had all the men in the world to help you , you could not clear off this one little hay-rick in a week .
The instant you have thrown down the hay at the top , it will take root again from below .
But listen to what I say .
You must steal out at daybreak to-morrow and bring out the white horse and some good strong ropes .
Then get on the hay-stack , put the ropes round it , and harness the horse to the ropes .
When you are ready , climb up the hay-stack and begin to count one , two , three .
The horse will ask you what you are counting , and you must be sure to answer what I whisper to you . '
So the maiden whispered something in his ear , and left the room .
And the prince knew nothing better to do than to get into bed .
He slept soundly , and it was still almost dark when he got up and proceeded to carry out the instructions given him by the girl .
First he chose some stout ropes , and then he led the horse out of the stable and rode it to the hay-stack , which was made up of fifty cartloads , so that it could hardly be called ' a little one . '
The prince did all that the maiden had told him , and when at last he was seated on top of the rick , and had counted up to twenty , he heard the horse ask in amazement : ` What are you counting up there , my son ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' said he , ' I was just amusing myself with counting the packs of wolves in the forest , but there are really so many of them that I do n't think I should ever be done . '
The word ` wolf ' was hardly out of his mouth than the white horse was off like the wind , so that in the twinkling of an eye it had reached the shed , dragging the hay-stack behind it .
The master was dumb with surprise as he came in after breakfast and found his man 's day 's work quite done .
` Was it really you who were so clever ? '
asked he .
` Or did some one give you good advice ? '
` Oh , I have only myself to take counsel with , ' said the prince , and the old man went away , shaking his head .
Late in the evening the prince went to his master to learn what he was to do next day .
` To-morrow , ' said the old man , ` you must bring the white-headed calf to the meadow , and , as you value your life , take care it does not escape from you . '
The prince answered nothing , but thought , ` Well , most peasants of nineteen have got a whole herd to look after , so surely I can manage one . '
And he went towards his room , where the maiden met him .
` To morrow I have got an idiot 's work , ' said he ; ` nothing but to take the white-headed calf to the meadow . '
` Oh , you unlucky being ! '
sighed she .
` Do you know that this calf is so swift that in a single day he can run three times round the world ?
Take heed to what I tell you .
Bind one end of this silk thread to the left fore-leg of the calf , and the other end to the little toe of your left foot , so that the calf will never be able to leave your side , whether you walk , stand , or lie . '
After this the prince went to bed and slept soundly .
The next morning he did exactly what the maiden had told him , and led the calf with the silken thread to the meadow , where it stuck to his side like a faithful dog .
By sunset , it was back again in its stall , and then came the master and said , with a frown , ` Were you really so clever yourself , or did somebody tell you what to do ? '
` Oh , I have only my own poor head , ' answered the prince , and the old man went away growling , ' I do n't believe a word of it !
I am sure you have found some clever friend ! '
In the evening he called the prince and said : ` To-morrow I have no work for you , but when I wake you must come before my bed , and give me your hand in greeting . '
The young man wondered at this strange freak , and went laughing in search of the maiden .
` Ah , it is no laughing matter , ' sighed she .
` He means to eat you , and there is only one way in which I can help you .
You must heat an iron shovel red hot , and hold it out to him instead of your hand . '
So next morning he wakened very early , and had heated the shovel before the old man was awake .
At length he heard him calling , ` You lazy fellow , where are you ?
Come and wish me good morning . '
But when the prince entered with the red-hot shovel his master only said , ' I am very ill to-day , and too weak even to touch your hand .
You must return this evening , when I may be better . '
The prince loitered about all day , and in the evening went back to the old man 's room .
He was received in the most ; friendly manner , and , to his surprise , his master exclaimed , ' I am very well satisfied with you .
Come to me at dawn and bring the maiden with you .
I know you have long loved each other , and I wish to make you man and wife . '
The young man nearly jumped into the air for joy , but , remembering the rules of the house , he managed to keep still .
When he told the maiden , he saw to his astonishment that she had become as white as a sheet , and she was quite dumb .
` The old man has found out who was your counsellor , ' she said when she could speak , ` and he means to destroy us both . '
We must escape somehow , or else we shall be lost .
Take an axe , and cut off the head of the calf with one blow .
With a second , split its head in two , and in its brain you will see a bright red ball .
Bring that to me .
Meanwhile , I will do what is needful here .
And the prince thought to himself , ` Better kill the calf than be killed ourselves .
If we can once escape , we will go back home .
The peas which I strewed about must have sprouted , so that we shall not miss the way . '
Then he went into the stall , and with one blow of the axe killed the calf , and with the second split its brain .
In an instant the place was filled with light , as the red ball fell from the brain of the calf .
The prince picked it up , and , wrapping it round with a thick cloth , hid it in his bosom .
Mercifully , the cow slept through it all , or by her cries she would have awakened the master .
He looked round , and at the door stood the maiden , holding a little bundle in her arms .
` Where is the ball ? '
she asked .
` Here , ' answered he .
` We must lose no time in escaping , ' she went on , and uncovered a tiny bit of the shining ball , to light them on their way .
As the prince had expected the peas had taken root , and grown into a little hedge , so that they were sure they would not lose the path .
As they fled , the girl told him that she had overheard a conversation between the old man and his grandmother , saying that she was a king 's daughter , whom the old fellow had obtained by cunning from her parents .
The prince , who knew all about the affair , was silent , though he was glad from his heart that it had fallen to his lot to set her free .
So they went on till the day began to dawn .
The old man slept very late that morning , and rubbed his eyes till he was properly awake .
Then he remembered that very soon the couple were to present themselves before him .
After waiting and waiting till quite a long time had passed , he said to himself , with a grin , ` Well , they are not in much hurry to be married , ' and waited again .
At last he grew a little uneasy , and cried loudly , ` Man and maid !
what has become of you ? '
After repeating this many times , he became quite frightened , but , call as he would , neither man nor maid appeared .
At last he jumped angrily out of bed to go in search of the culprits , but only found an empty house , and beds that had never been slept in .
Then he went straight to the stable , where the sight of the dead calf told him all .
Swearing loudly , he opened the door of the third stall quickly , and cried to his goblin servants to go and chase the fugitives .
` Bring them to me , however you may find them , for have them I must ! '
he said .
So spake the old man , and the servants fled like the wind .
The runaways were crossing a great plain , when the maiden stopped .
` Something has happened ! '
she said .
` The ball moves in my hand , and I 'm sure we are being followed ! '
and behind them they saw a black cloud flying before the wind .
Then the maiden turned the ball thrice in her hand , and cried , ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a brook , And my lover into a little fish . '
And in an instant there was a brook with a fish swimming in it .
The goblins arrived just after , but , seeing nobody , waited for a little , then hurried home , leaving the brook and the fish undisturbed .
When they were quite out of sight , the brook and the fish returned to their usual shapes and proceeded on their journey .
When the goblins , tired and with empty hands , returned , their master inquired what they had seen , and if nothing strange had befallen them .
` Nothing , ' said they ; ` the plain was quite empty , save for a brook and a fish swimming in it . '
` Idiots ! '
roared the master ; ` of course it was they ! '
And dashing open the door of the fifth stall , he told the goblins inside that they must go and drink up the brook , and catch the fish .
And the goblins jumped up , and flew like the wind .
The young pair had almost reached the edge of the wood , when the maiden stopped again .
` Something has happened , ' said she .
` The ball is moving in my hand , ' and looking round she beheld a cloud flying towards them , large and blacker than the first , and striped with red .
` Those are our pursuers , ' cried she , and turning the ball three times in her hand she spoke to it thus : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change us both .
Me into a wild rose bush , And him into a rose on my stem . '
And in the twinkling of an eye it was done .
Only just in time too , for the goblins were close at hand , and looked round eagerly for the stream and the fish .
But neither stream nor fish was to be seen ; nothing but a rose bush .
So they went sorrowing home , and when they were out of sight the rose bush and rose returned to their proper shapes and walked all the faster for the little rest they had had .
` Well , did you find them ? '
asked the old man when his goblins came back .
` No , ' replied the leader of the goblins , ` we found neither brook nor fish in the desert . '
` And did you find nothing else at all ? '
` Oh , nothing but a rose tree on the edge of a wood , with a rose hanging on it . '
` Idiots ! '
cried he .
` Why , that was they . '
And he threw open the door of the seventh stall , where his mightiest goblins were locked in .
` Bring them to me , however you find them , dead or alive ! '
thundered he , ` for I will have them !
Tear up the rose tree and the roots too , and do n't leave anything behind , however strange it may be ! '
The fugitives were resting in the shade of a wood , and were refreshing themselves with food and drink .
Suddenly the maiden looked up .
` Something has happened , ' said she .
` The ball has nearly jumped out of my bosom !
Some one is certainly following us , and the danger is near , but the trees hide our enemies from us . '
As she spoke she took the ball in her hand , and said : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a breeze , And make my lover into a midge . '
An instant , and the girl was dissolved into thin air , while the prince darted about like a midge .
The next moment a crowd of goblins rushed up , and looked about in search of something strange , for neither a rose bush nor anything else was to be seen .
But they had hardly turned their backs to go home empty-handed when the prince and the maiden stood on the earth again .
` We must make all the haste we can , ' said she , ` before the old man himself comes to seek us , for he will know us under any disguise . '
They ran on till they reached such a dark part of the forest that , if it had not been for the light shed by the ball , they could not have made their way at all .
Worn out and breathless , they came at length to a large stone , and here the ball began to move restlessly .
The maiden , seeing this , exclaimed : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Roll the stone quickly to one side , That we may find a door . '
And in a moment the stone had rolled away , and they had passed through the door to the world again .
` Now we are safe , ' cried she .
` Here the old wizard has no more power over us , and we can guard ourselves from his spells .
But , my friend , we have to part !
You will return to your parents , and I must go in search of mine . '
` No !
no ! '
exclaimed the prince . '
I will never part from you .
You must come with me and be my wife .
We have gone through many troubles together , and now we will share our joys .
The maiden resisted his words for some time , but at last she went with him .
In the forest they met a woodcutter , who told them that in the palace , as well as in all the land , there had been great sorrow over the loss of the prince , and many years had now passed away during which they had found no traces of him .
So , by the help of the magic ball , the maiden managed that he should put on the same clothes that he had been wearing at the time he had vanished , so that his father might know him more quickly .
She herself stayed behind in a peasant 's hut , so that father and son might meet alone .
But the father was no longer there , for the loss of his son had killed him ; and on his deathbed he confessed to his people how he had contrived that the old wizard should carry away a peasant 's child instead of the prince , wherefore this punishment had fallen upon him .
The prince wept bitterly when he heard this news , for he had loved his father well , and for three days he ate and drank nothing .
But on the fourth day he stood in the presence of his people as their new king , and , calling his councillors , he told them all the strange things that had befallen him , and how the maiden had borne him safe through all .
And the councillors cried with one voice , ` Let her be your wife , and our liege lady . '
And that is the end of the story .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE CHILD WHO CAME FROM AN EGG Once upon a time there lived a queen whose heart was sore because she had no children .
She was sad enough when her husband was at home with her , but when he was away she would see nobody , but sat and wept all day long .
Now it happened that a war broke out with the king of a neighbouring country , and the queen was left in the palace alone .
She was so unhappy that she felt as if the walls would stifle her , so she wandered out into the garden , and threw herself down on a grassy bank , under the shade of a lime tree .
She had been there for some time , when a rustle among the leaves caused her to look up , and she saw an old woman limping on her crutches towards the stream that flowed through the grounds .
When she had quenched her thirst , she came straight up to the queen , and said to her : ` Do not take it evil , noble lady , that I dare to speak to you , and do not be afraid of me , for it may be that I shall bring you good luck . '
The queen looked at her doubtfully , and answered : ` You do not seem as if you had been very lucky yourself , or to have much good fortune to spare for anyone else . '
` Under rough bark lies smooth wood and sweet kernel , ' replied the old woman .
` Let me see your hand , that I may read the future . '
The queen held out her hand , and the old woman examined its lines closely .
Then she said , ` Your heart is heavy with two sorrows , one old and one new .
The new sorrow is for your husband , who is fighting far away from you ; but , believe me , he is well , and will soon bring you joyful news .
But your other sorrow is much older than this .
Your happiness is spoilt because you have no children . '
At these words the queen became scarlet , and tried to draw away her hand , but the old woman said : ` Have a little patience , for there are some things I want to see more clearly . '
` But who are you ? '
asked the queen , ` for you seem to be able to read my heart . '
` Never mind my name , ' answered she , ` but rejoice that it is permitted to me to show you a way to lessen your grief .
You must , however , promise to do exactly what I tell you , if any good is to come of it . '
` Oh , I will obey you exactly , ' cried the queen , ` and if you can help me you shall have in return anything you ask for . '
The old woman stood thinking for a little : then she drew something from the folds of her dress , and , undoing a number of wrappings , brought out a tiny basket made of birch-bark .
She held it out to the queen , saying , ` In the basket you will find a bird 's egg .
This you must be careful to keep in a warm place for three months , when it will turn into a doll .
Lay the doll in a basket lined with soft wool , and leave it alone , for it will not need any food , and by-and-by you will find it has grown to be the size of a baby .
Then you will have a baby of your own , and you must put it by the side of the other child , and bring your husband to see his son and daughter .
The boy you will bring up yourself , but you must entrust the little girl to a nurse .
When the time comes to have them christened you will invite me to be godmother to the princess , and this is how you must send the invitation .
Hidden in the cradle , you will find a goose 's wing : throw this out of the window , and I will be with you directly ; but be sure you tell no one of all the things that have befallen you . '
The queen was about to reply , but the old woman was already limping away , and before she had gone two steps she had turned into a young girl , who moved so quickly that she seemed rather to fly than to walk .
The queen , watching this transformation , could hardly believe her eyes , and would have taken it all for a dream , had it not been for the basket which she held in her hand .
Feeling a different being from the poor sad woman who had wandered into the garden so short a time before , she hastened to her room , and felt carefully in the basket for the egg .
There it was , a tiny thing of soft blue with little green spots , and she took it out and kept it in her bosom , which was the warmest place she could think of .
A fortnight after the old woman had paid her visit , the king came home , having conquered his enemies .
At this proof that the old woman had spoken truth , the queen 's heart bounded , for she now had fresh hopes that the rest of the prophecy might be fulfilled .
She cherished the basket and the egg as her chiefest treasures , and had a golden case made for the basket , so that when the time came to lay the egg in it , it might not risk any harm .
Three months passed , and , as the old woman had bidden her , the queen took the egg from her bosom , and laid it snugly amidst the warm woollen folds .
The next morning she went to look at it , and the first thing she saw was the broken eggshell , and a little doll lying among the pieces .
Then she felt happy at last , and leaving the doll in peace to grow , waited , as she had been told , for a baby of her own to lay beside it .
In course of time , this came also , and the queen took the little girl out of the basket , and placed it with her son in a golden cradle which glittered with precious stones .
Next she sent for the king , who nearly went mad with joy at the sight of the children .
Soon there came a day when the whole court was ordered to be present at the christening of the royal babies , and when all was ready the queen softly opened the window a little , and let the goose wing fly out .
The guests were coming thick and fast , when suddenly there drove up a splendid coach drawn by six cream-coloured horses , and out of it stepped a young lady dressed in garments that shone like the sun .
Her face could not be seen , for a veil covered her head , but as she came up to the place where the queen was standing with the babies she drew the veil aside , and everyone was dazzled with her beauty .
She took the little girl in her arms , and holding it up before the assembled company announced that henceforward it would be known by the name of Dotterine -- a name which no one understood but the queen , who knew that the baby had come from the yolk of an egg .
The boy was called Willem .
After the feast was over and the guests were going away , the godmother laid the baby in the cradle , and said to the queen , ` Whenever the baby goes to sleep , be sure you lay the basket beside her , and leave the eggshells in it .
As long as you do that , no evil can come to her ; so guard this treasure as the apple of your eye , and teach your daughter to do so likewise . '
Then , kissing the baby three times , she mounted her coach and drove away .
The children throve well , and Dotterine 's nurse loved her as if she were the baby 's real mother .
Every day the little girl seemed to grow prettier , and people used to say she would soon be as beautiful as her godmother , but no one knew , except the nurse , that at night , when the child slept , a strange and lovely lady bent over her .
At length she told the queen what she had seen , but they determined to keep it as a secret between themselves .
The twins were by this time nearly two years old , when the queen was taken suddenly ill .
All the best doctors in the country were sent for , but it was no use , for there is no cure for death .
The queen knew she was dying , and sent for Dotterine and her nurse , who had now become her lady-in-waiting .
To her , as her most faithful servant , she gave the lucky basket in charge , and besought her to treasure it carefully .
` When my daughter , ' said the queen , ` is ten years old , you are to hand it over to her , but warn her solemnly that her whole future happiness depends on the way she guards it .
About my son , I have no fears .
He is the heir of the kingdom , and his father will look after him . '
The lady-in-waiting promised to carry out the queen 's directions , and above all to keep the affair a secret .
And that same morning the queen died .
After some years the king married again , but he did not love his second wife as he had done his first , and had only married her for reasons of ambition .
She hated her step-children , and the king , seeing this , kept them out of the way , under the care of Dotterine 's old nurse .
But if they ever strayed across the path of the queen , she would kick them out of her sight like dogs .
On Dotterine 's tenth birthday her nurse handed her over the cradle , and repeated to her her mother 's dying words ; but the child was too young to understand the value of such a gift , and at first thought little about it .
Two more years slipped by , when one day during the king 's absence the stepmother found Dotterine sitting under a lime tree .
She fell as usual into a passion , and beat the child so badly that Dotterine went staggering to her own room .
Her nurse was not there , but suddenly , as she stood weeping , her eyes fell upon the golden case in which lay the precious basket .
She thought it might contain something to amuse her , and looked eagerly inside , but nothing was there save a handful of wool and two empty eggshells .
Very much disappointed , she lifted the wool , and there lay the goose 's wing .
` What old rubbish , ' said the child to herself , and , turning , threw the wing out of the open window .
In a moment a beautiful lady stood beside her .
` Do not be afraid , ' said the lady , stroking Dotterine 's head . '
I am your godmother , and have come to pay you a visit .
Your red eyes tell me that you are unhappy .
I know that your stepmother is very unkind to you , but be brave and patient , and better days will come .
She will have no power over you when you are grown up , and no one else can hurt you either , if only you are careful never to part from your basket , or to lose the eggshells that are in it .
Make a silken case for the little basket , and hide it away in your dress night and day and you will be safe from your stepmother and anyone that tries to harm you .
But if you should happen to find yourself in any difficulty , and can not tell what to do , take the goose 's wing from the basket , and throw it out of the window , and in a moment I will come to help you .
Now come into the garden , that I may talk to you under the lime trees , where no one can hear us . '
They had so much to say to each other , that the sun was already setting when the godmother had ended all the good advice she wished to give the child , and saw it was time for her to be going .
` Hand me the basket , ' said she , ` for you must have some supper .
I can not let you go hungry to bed . '
Then , bending over the basket , she whispered some magic words , and instantly a table covered with fruits and cakes stood on the ground before them .
When they had finished eating , the godmother led the child back , and on the way taught her the words she must say to the basket when she wanted it to give her something .
In a few years more , Dotterine was a grown-up young lady , and those who saw her thought that the world did not contain so lovely a girl .
About this time a terrible war broke out , and the king and his army were beaten back and back , till at length they had to retire into the town , and make ready for a siege .
It lasted so long that food began to fail , and even in the palace there was not enough to eat .
So one morning Dotterine , who had had neither supper nor breakfast , and was feeling very hungry , let her wing fly away .
She was so weak and miserable , that directly her godmother appeared she burst into tears , and could not speak for some time .
` Do not cry so , dear child , ' said the godmother . '
I will carry you away from all this , but the others I must leave to take their chance . '
Then , bidding Dotterine follow her , she passed through the gates of the town , and through the army outside , and nobody stopped them , or seemed to see them .
The next day the town surrendered , and the king and all his courtiers were taken prisoners , but in the confusion his son managed to make his escape .
The queen had already met her death from a spear carelessly thrown .
As soon as Dotterine and her godmother were clear of the enemy , Dotterine took off her own clothes , and put on those of a peasant , and in order to disguise her better her godmother changed her face completely .
` When better times come , ' her protectress said cheerfully , ` and you want to look like yourself again , you have only to whisper the words I have taught you into the basket , and say you would like to have your own face once more , and it will be all right in a moment .
But you will have to endure a little longer yet . '
Then , warning her once more to take care of the basket , the lady bade the girl farewell .
For many days Dotterine wandered from one place to another without finding shelter , and though the food which she got from the basket prevented her from starving , she was glad enough to take service in a peasant 's house till brighter days dawned .
At first the work she had to do seemed very difficult , but either she was wonderfully quick in learning , or else the basket may have secretly helped her .
Anyhow at the end of three days she could do everything as well as if she had cleaned pots and swept rooms all her life .
One morning Dotterine was busy scouring a wooden tub , when a noble lady happened to pass through the village .
The girl 's bright face as she stood in the front of the door with her tub attracted the lady , and she stopped and called the girl to come and speak to her .
` Would you not like to come and enter my service ? '
she asked .
` Very much , ' replied Dotterine , ` if my present mistress will allow me . '
` Oh , I will settle that , ' answered the lady ; and so she did , and the same day they set out for the lady 's house , Dotterine sitting beside the coachman .
Six months went by , and then came the joyful news that the king 's son had collected an army and had defeated the usurper who had taken his father 's place , but at the same moment Dotterine learned that the old king had died in captivity .
The girl wept bitterly for his loss , but in secrecy , as she had told her mistress nothing about her past life .
At the end of a year of mourning , the young king let it be known that he intended to marry , and commanded all the maidens in the kingdom to come to a feast , so that he might choose a wife from among them .
For weeks all the mothers and all the daughters in the land were busy preparing beautiful dresses and trying new ways of putting up their hair , and the three lovely daughters of Dotterine 's mistress were as much excited as the rest .
The girl was clever with her fingers , and was occupied all day with getting ready their smart clothes , but at night when she went to bed she always dreamed that her godmother bent over her and said , ` Dress your young ladies for the feast , and when they have started follow them yourself .
Nobody will be so fine as you . '
When the great day came , Dotterine could hardly contain herself , and when she had dressed her young mistresses and seen them depart with their mother she flung herself on her bed , and burst into tears .
Then she seemed to hear a voice whisper to her , ` Look in your basket , and you will find in it everything that you need . '
Dotterine did not want to be told twice !
Up she jumped , seized her basket , and repeated the magic words , and behold !
there lay a dress on the bed , shining as a star .
She put it on with fingers that trembled with joy , and , looking in the glass , was struck dumb at her own beauty .
She went downstairs , and in front of the door stood a fine carriage , into which she stepped and was driven away like the wind .
The king 's palace was a long way off , yet it seemed only a few minutes before Dotterine drew up at the great gates .
She was just going to alight , when she suddenly remembered she had left her basket behind her .
What was she to do ?
Go back and fetch it , lest some ill-fortune should befall her , or enter the palace and trust to chance that nothing evil would happen ?
But before she could decide , a little swallow flew up with the basket in its beak , and the girl was happy again .
The feast was already at its height , and the hall was brilliant with youth and beauty , when the door was flung wide and Dotterine entered , making all the other maidens look pale and dim beside her .
Their hopes faded as they gazed , but their mothers whispered together , saying , ` Surely this is our lost princess ! '
The young king did not know her again , but he never left her side nor took his eyes from her .
And at midnight a strange thing happened .
A thick cloud suddenly filled the hall , so that for a moment all was dark .
Then the mist suddenly grew bright , and Dotterine 's godmother was seen standing there .
` This , ' she said , turning to the king , ` is the girl whom you have always believed to be your sister , and who vanished during the siege .
She is not your sister at all , but the daughter of the king of a neighbouring country , who was given to your mother to bring up , to save her from the hands of a wizard . '
Then she vanished , and was never seen again , nor the wonder-working basket either ; but now that Dotterine 's troubles were over she could get on without them , and she and the young king lived happily together till the end of their days .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
STAN BOLOVAN Once upon a time what happened did happen , and if it had not happened this story would never have been told .
On the outskirts of a village just where the oxen were turned out to pasture , and the pigs roamed about burrowing with their noses among the roots of the trees , there stood a small house .
In the house lived a man who had a wife , and the wife was sad all day long .
` Dear wife , what is wrong with you that you hang your head like a drooping rosebud ? '
asked her husband one morning .
` You have everything you want ; why can not you be merry like other women ? '
` Leave me alone , and do not seek to know the reason , ' replied she , bursting into tears , and the man thought that it was no time to question her , and went away to his work .
He could not , however , forget all about it , and a few days after he inquired again the reason of her sadness , but only got the same reply .
At length he felt he could bear it no longer , and tried a third time , and then his wife turned and answered him .
` Good gracious ! '
cried she , ` why can not you let things be as they are ?
If I were to tell you , you would become just as wretched as myself .
If you would only believe , it is far better for you to know nothing . '
But no man yet was ever content with such an answer .
The more you beg him not to inquire , the greater is his curiosity to learn the whole .
` Well , if you MUST know , ' said the wife at last , ' I will tell you .
There is no luck in this house -- no luck at all ! '
` Is not your cow the best milker in all the village ?
Are not your trees as full of fruit as your hives are full of bees ?
Has anyone cornfields like ours ?
Really you talk nonsense when you say things like that ! '
` Yes , all that you say is true , but we have no children . '
Then Stan understood , and when a man once understands and has his eyes opened it is no longer well with him .
From that day the little house in the outskirts contained an unhappy man as well as an unhappy woman .
And at the sight of her husband 's misery the woman became more wretched than ever .
And so matters went on for some time .
Some weeks had passed , and Stan thought he would consult a wise man who lived a day 's journey from his own house .
The wise man was sitting before his door when he came up , and Stan fell on his knees before him .
` Give me children , my lord , give me children . '
` Take care what you are asking , ' replied the wise man .
` Will not children be a burden to you ?
Are you rich enough to feed and clothe them ? '
` Only give them to me , my lord , and I will manage somehow ! '
and at a sign from the wise man Stan went his way .
He reached home that evening tired and dusty , but with hope in his heart .
As he drew near his house a sound of voices struck upon his ear , and he looked up to see the whole place full of children .
Children in the garden , children in the yard , children looking out of every window -- it seemed to the man as if all the children in the world must be gathered there .
And none was bigger than the other , but each was smaller than the other , and every one was more noisy and more impudent and more daring than the rest , and Stan gazed and grew cold with horror as he realised that they all belonged to him .
` Good gracious !
how many there are !
how many ! '
he muttered to himself .
` Oh , but not one too many , ' smiled his wife , coming up with a crowd more children clinging to her skirts .
But even she found that it was not so easy to look after a hundred children , and when a few days had passed and they had eaten up all the food there was in the house , they began to cry , ` Father !
I am hungry -- I am hungry , ' till Stan scratched his head and wondered what he was to do next .
It was not that he thought there were too many children , for his life had seemed more full of joy since they appeared , but now it came to the point he did not know how he was to feed them .
The cow had ceased to give milk , and it was too early for the fruit trees to ripen .
` Do you know , old woman ! '
said he one day to his wife , ' I must go out into the world and try to bring back food somehow , though I can not tell where it is to come from . '
To the hungry man any road is long , and then there was always the thought that he had to satisfy a hundred greedy children as well as himself .
Stan wandered , and wandered , and wandered , till he reached to the end of the world , where that which is , is mingled with that which is not , and there he saw , a little way off , a sheepfold , with seven sheep in it .
In the shadow of some trees lay the rest of the flock .
Stan crept up , hoping that he might manage to decoy some of them away quietly , and drive them home for food for his family , but he soon found this could not be .
For at midnight he heard a rushing noise , and through the air flew a dragon , who drove apart a ram , a sheep , and a lamb , and three fine cattle that were lying down close by .
And besides these he took the milk of seventy-seven sheep , and carried it home to his old mother , that she might bathe in it and grow young again .
And this happened every night .
The shepherd bewailed himself in vain : the dragon only laughed , and Stan saw that this was not the place to get food for his family .
But though he quite understood that it was almost hopeless to fight against such a powerful monster , yet the thought of the hungry children at home clung to him like a burr , and would not be shaken off , and at last he said to the shepherd , ` What will you give me if I rid you of the dragon ? '
` One of every three rams , one of every three sheep , one of every three lambs , ' answered the herd .
` It is a bargain , ' replied Stan , though at the moment he did not know how , supposing he DID come off the victor , he would ever be able to drive so large a flock home .
However , that matter could be settled later .
At present night was not far off , and he must consider how best to fight with the dragon .
Just at midnight , a horrible feeling that was new and strange to him came over Stan -- a feeling that he could not put into words even to himself , but which almost forced him to give up the battle and take the shortest road home again .
He half turned ; then he remembered the children , and turned back .
` You or I , ' said Stan to himself , and took up his position on the edge of the flock .
` Stop ! '
he suddenly cried , as the air was filled with a rushing noise , and the dragon came dashing past .
` Dear me ! '
exclaimed the dragon , looking round .
` Who are you , and where do you come from ? ' '
I am Stan Bolovan , who eats rocks all night , and in the day feeds on the flowers of the mountain ; and if you meddle with those sheep I will carve a cross on your back . '
When the dragon heard these words he stood quite still in the middle of the road , for he knew he had met with his match .
` But you will have to fight me first , ' he said in a trembling voice , for when you faced him properly he was not brave at all . '
I fight you ? '
replied Stan , ` why I could slay you with one breath ! '
Then , stooping to pick up a large cheese which lay at his feet , he added , ` Go and get a stone like this out of the river , so that we may lose no time in seeing who is the best man . '
The dragon did as Stan bade him , and brought back a stone out of the brook .
` Can you get buttermilk out of your stone ? '
asked Stan .
The dragon picked up his stone with one hand , and squeezed it till it fell into powder , but no buttermilk flowed from it .
` Of course I ca n't ! '
he said , half angrily .
` Well , if you ca n't , I can , ' answered Stan , and he pressed the cheese till buttermilk flowed through his fingers .
When the dragon saw that , he thought it was time he made the best of his way home again , but Stan stood in his path .
` We have still some accounts to settle , ' said he , ` about what you have been doing here , ' and the poor dragon was too frightened to stir , lest Stan should slay him at one breath and bury him among the flowers in the mountain pastures .
` Listen to me , ' he said at last . '
I see you are a very useful person , and my mother has need of a fellow like you .
Suppose you enter her service for three days , which are as long as one of your years , and she will pay you each day seven sacks full of ducats . '
Three times seven sacks full of ducats !
The offer was very tempting , and Stan could not resist it .
He did not waste words , but nodded to the dragon , and they started along the road .
It was a long , long way , but when they came to the end they found the dragon 's mother , who was as old as time itself , expecting them .
Stan saw her eyes shining like lamps from afar , and when they entered the house they beheld a huge kettle standing on the fire , filled with milk .
When the old mother found that her son had arrived empty-handed she grew very angry , and fire and flame darted from her nostrils , but before she could speak the dragon turned to Stan .
` Stay here , ' said he , ` and wait for me ; I am going to explain things to my mother . '
Stan was already repenting bitterly that he had ever come to such a place , but , since he was there , there was nothing for it but to take everything quietly , and not show that he was afraid .
` Listen , mother , ' said the dragon as soon as they were alone , ' I have brought this man in order to get rid of him .
He is a terrific fellow who eats rocks , and can press buttermilk out of a stone , ' and he told her all that had happened the night before .
` Oh , just leave him to me ! '
she said . '
I have never yet let a man slip through my fingers . '
So Stan had to stay and do the old mother service .
The next day she told him that he and her son should try which was the strongest , and she took down a huge club , bound seven times with iron .
The dragon picked it up as if it had been a feather , and , after whirling it round his head , flung it lightly three miles away , telling Stan to beat that if he could .
They walked to the spot where the club lay .
Stan stooped and felt it ; then a great fear came over him , for he knew that he and all his children together would never lift that club from the ground .
` What are you doing ? '
asked the dragon . '
I was thinking what a beautiful club it was , and what a pity it is that it should cause your death . '
` How do you mean -- my death ? '
asked the dragon .
` Only that I am afraid that if I throw it you will never see another dawn .
You do n't know how strong I am ! '
` Oh , never mind that be quick and throw . '
` If you are really in earnest , let us go and feast for three days : that will at any rate give you three extra days of life . '
Stan spoke so calmly that this time the dragon began to get a little frightened , though he did not quite believe that things would be as bad as Stan said .
They returned to the house , took all the food that could be found in the old mother 's larder , and carried it back to the place where the club was lying .
Then Stan seated himself on the sack of provisions , and remained quietly watching the setting moon .
` What are you doing ? '
asked the dragon .
` Waiting till the moon gets out of my way . '
` What do you mean ?
I do n't understand . '
` Do n't you see that the moon is exactly in my way ?
But of course , if you like , I will throw the club into the moon . '
At these words the dragon grew uncomfortable for the second time .
He prized the club , which had been left him by his grandfather , very highly , and had no desire that it should be lost in the moon .
` I 'll tell you what , ' he said , after thinking a little .
` Do n't throw the club at all .
I will throw it a second time , and that will do just as well . '
` No , certainly not ! '
replied Stan .
` Just wait till the moon sets . '
But the dragon , in dread lest Stan should fulfil his threats , tried what bribes could do , and in the end had to promise Stan seven sacks of ducats before he was suffered to throw back the club himself .
` Oh , dear me , that is indeed a strong man , ' said the dragon , turning to his mother .
` Would you believe that I have had the greatest difficulty in preventing him from throwing the club into the moon ? '
Then the old woman grew uncomfortable too !
Only to think of it !
It was no joke to throw things into the moon !
So no more was heard of the club , and the next day they had all something else to think about .
` Go and fetch me water ! '
said the mother , when the morning broke , and gave them twelve buffalo skins with the order to keep filling them till night .
They set out at once for the brook , and in the twinkling of an eye the dragon had filled the whole twelve , carried them into the house , and brought them back to Stan .
Stan was tired : he could scarcely lift the buckets when they were empty , and he shuddered to think of what would happen when they were full .
But he only took an old knife out of his pocket and began to scratch up the earth near the brook .
` What are you doing there ?
How are you going to carry the water into the house ? '
asked the dragon .
` How ?
Dear me , that is easy enough !
I shall just take the brook ! '
At these words the dragon 's jaw dropped .
This was the last thing that had ever entered his head , for the brook had been as it was since the days of his grandfather .
` I 'll tell you what ! '
he said .
` Let me carry your skins for you . '
` Most certainly not , ' answered Stan , going on with his digging , and the dragon , in dread lest he should fulfil his threat , tried what bribes would do , and in the end had again to promise seven sacks of ducats before Stan would agree to leave the brook alone and let him carry the water into the house .
On the third day the old mother sent Stan into the forest for wood , and , as usual , the dragon went with him .
Before you could count three he had pulled up more trees than Stan could have cut down in a lifetime , and had arranged them neatly in rows .
When the dragon had finished , Stan began to look about him , and , choosing the biggest of the trees , he climbed up it , and , breaking off a long rope of wild vine , bound the top of the tree to the one next it .
And so he did to a whole line of trees .
` What are you doing there ? '
asked the dragon .
` You can see for yourself , ' answered Stan , going quietly on with his work .
` Why are you tying the trees together ? '
` Not to give myself unnecessary work ; when I pull up one , all the others will come up too . '
` But how will you carry them home ? '
` Dear me !
do n't you understand that I am going to take the whole forest back with me ? '
said Stan , tying two other trees as he spoke .
` I 'll tell you what , ' cried the dragon , trembling with fear at the thought of such a thing ; ` let me carry the wood for you , and you shall have seven times seven sacks full of ducats . '
` You are a good fellow , and I agree to your proposal , ' answered Stan , and the dragon carried the wood .
Now the three days ' service which were to be reckoned as a year were over , and the only thing that disturbed Stan was , how to get all those ducats back to his home !
In the evening the dragon and his mother had a long talk , but Stan heard every word through a crack in the ceiling .
` Woe be to us , mother , ' said the dragon ; ` this man will soon get us into his power .
Give him his money , and let us be rid of him . '
But the old mother was fond of money , and did not like this .
` Listen to me , ' said she ; ` you must murder him this very night . ' '
I am afraid , ' answered he .
` There is nothing to fear , ' replied the old mother .
` When he is asleep take the club , and hit him on the head with it .
It is easily done . '
And so it would have been , had not Stan heard all about it .
And when the dragon and his mother had put out their lights , he took the pigs ' trough and filled it with earth , and placed it in his bed , and covered it with clothes .
Then he hid himself underneath , and began to snore loudly .
Very soon the dragon stole softly into the room , and gave a tremendous blow on the spot where Stan 's head should have been .
Stan groaned loudly from under the bed , and the dragon went away as softly as he had come .
Directly he had closed the door , Stan lifted out the pigs ' trough , and lay down himself , after making everything clean and tidy , but he was wise enough not to shut his eyes that night .
The next morning he came into the room when the dragon and his mother were having their breakfast .
` Good morning , ' said he .
` Good morning .
How did you sleep ? '
` Oh , very well , but I dreamed that a flea had bitten me , and I seem to feel it still . '
The dragon and his mother looked at each other .
` Do you hear that ? '
whispered he .
` He talks of a flea .
I broke my club on his head . '
This time the mother grew as frightened as her son .
There was nothing to be done with a man like this , and she made all haste to fill the sacks with ducats , so as to get rid of Stan as soon as possible .
But on his side Stan was trembling like an aspen , as he could not lift even one sack from the ground .
So he stood still and looked at them .
` What are you standing there for ? '
asked the dragon .
` Oh , I was standing here because it has just occurred to me that I should like to stay in your service for another year .
I am ashamed that when I get home they should see I have brought back so little .
I know that they will cry out , `` Just look at Stan Bolovan , who in one year has grown as weak as a dragon . '' '
Here a shriek of dismay was heard both from the dragon and his mother , who declared they would give him seven or even seven times seven the number of sacks if he would only go away .
` I 'll tell you what ! '
said Stan at last . '
I see you do n't want me to stay , and I should be very sorry to make myself disagreeable .
I will go at once , but only on condition that you shall carry the money home yourself , so that I may not be put to shame before my friends . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth before the dragon had snatched up the sacks and piled them on his back .
Then he and Stan set forth .
The way , though really not far , was yet too long for Stan , but at length he heard his children 's voices , and stopped short .
He did not wish the dragon to know where he lived , lest some day he should come to take back his treasure .
Was there nothing he could say to get rid of the monster ?
Suddenly an idea came into Stan 's head , and he turned round . '
I hardly know what to do , ' said he . '
I have a hundred children , and I am afraid they may do you harm , as they are always ready for a fight .
However , I will do my best to protect you . '
A hundred children !
That was indeed no joke !
The dragon let fall the sacks from terror , and then picked them up again .
But the children , who had had nothing to eat since their father had left them , came rushing towards him , waving knives in their right hands and forks in their left , and crying , ` Give us dragon 's flesh ; we will have dragon 's flesh . '
At this dreadful sight the dragon waited no longer : he flung down his sacks where he stood and took flight as fast as he could , so terrified at the fate that awaited him that from that day he has never dared to show his face in the world again .
-LRB- Adapted from Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE TWO FROGS Once upon a time in the country of Japan there lived two frogs , one of whom made his home in a ditch near the town of Osaka , on the sea coast , while the other dwelt in a clear little stream which ran through the city of Kioto .
At such a great distance apart , they had never even heard of each other ; but , funnily enough , the idea came into both their heads at once that they should like to see a little of the world , and the frog who lived at Kioto wanted to visit Osaka , and the frog who lived at Osaka wished to go to Kioto , where the great Mikado had his palace .
So one fine morning in the spring they both set out along the road that led from Kioto to Osaka , one from one end and the other from the other .
The journey was more tiring than they expected , for they did not know much about travelling , and half way between the two towns there arose a mountain which had to be climbed .
It took them a long time and a great many hops to reach the top , but there they were at last , and what was the surprise of each to see another frog before him !
They looked at each other for a moment without speaking , and then fell into conversation , explaining the cause of their meeting so far from their homes .
It was delightful to find that they both felt the same wish -- to learn a little more of their native country -- and as there was no sort of hurry they stretched themselves out in a cool , damp place , and agreed that they would have a good rest before they parted to go their ways .
` What a pity we are not bigger , ' said the Osaka frog ; ` for then we could see both towns from here , and tell if it is worth our while going on . '
` Oh , that is easily managed , ' returned the Kioto frog .
` We have only got to stand up on our hind legs , and hold on to each other , and then we can each look at the town he is travelling to . '
This idea pleased the Osaka frog so much that he at once jumped up and put his front paws on the shoulders of his friend , who had risen also .
There they both stood , stretching themselves as high as they could , and holding each other tightly , so that they might not fall down .
The Kioto frog turned his nose towards Osaka , and the Osaka frog turned his nose towards Kioto ; but the foolish things forgot that when they stood up their great eyes lay in the backs of their heads , and that though their noses might point to the places to which they wanted to go their eyes beheld the places from which they had come .
` Dear me ! '
cried the Osaka frog , ` Kioto is exactly like Osaka .
It is certainly not worth such a long journey .
I shall go home ! '
` If I had had any idea that Osaka was only a copy of Kioto I should never have travelled all this way , ' exclaimed the frog from Kioto , and as he spoke he took his hands from his friend 's shoulders , and they both fell down on the grass .
Then they took a polite farewell of each other , and set off for home again , and to the end of their lives they believed that Osaka and Kioto , which are as different to look at as two towns can be , were as like as two peas .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE STORY OF A GAZELLE Once upon a time there lived a man who wasted all his money , and grew so poor that his only food was a few grains of corn , which he scratched like a fowl from out of a dust-heap .
One day he was scratching as usual among a dust-heap in the street , hoping to find something for breakfast , when his eye fell upon a small silver coin , called an eighth , which he greedily snatched up .
` Now I can have a proper meal , ' he thought , and after drinking some water at a well he lay down and slept so long that it was sunrise before he woke again .
Then he jumped up and returned to the dust-heap .
` For who knows , ' he said to himself , ` whether I may not have some good luck again . '
As he was walking down the road , he saw a man coming towards him , carrying a cage made of twigs .
` Hi !
you fellow ! '
called he , ` what have you got inside there ? '
` Gazelles , ' replied the man .
` Bring them here , for I should like to see them . '
As he spoke , some men who were standing by began to laugh , saying to the man with the cage : ` You had better take care how you bargain with him , for he has nothing at all except what he picks up from a dust-heap , and if he ca n't feed himself , will he be able to feed a gazelle ? '
But the man with the cage made answer : ` Since I started from my home in the country , fifty people at the least have called me to show them my gazelles , and was there one among them who cared to buy ?
It is the custom for a trader in merchandise to be summoned hither and thither , and who knows where one may find a buyer ? '
And he took up his cage and went towards the scratcher of dust-heaps , and the men went with him .
` What do you ask for your gazelles ? '
said the beggar .
` Will you let me have one for an eighth ? '
And the man with the cage took out a gazelle , and held it out , saying , ` Take this one , master ! '
And the beggar took it and carried it to the dust-heap , where he scratched carefully till he found a few grains of corn , which he divided with his gazelle .
This he did night and morning , till five days went by .
Then , as he slept , the gazelle woke him , saying , ` Master . '
And the man answered , ` How is it that I see a wonder ? '
` What wonder ? '
asked the gazelle .
` Why , that you , a gazelle , should be able to speak , for , from the beginning , my father and mother and all the people that are in the world have never told me of a talking gazelle . '
` Never mind that , ' said the gazelle , ` but listen to what I say !
First , I took you for my master .
Second , you gave for me all you had in the world .
I can not run away from you , but give me , I pray you , leave to go every morning and seek food for myself , and every evening I will come back to you .
What you find in the dust-heaps is not enough for both of us . '
` Go , then , ' answered the master ; and the gazelle went .
When the sun had set , the gazelle came back , and the poor man was very glad , and they lay down and slept side by side .
In the morning it said to him , ' I am going away to feed . '
And the man replied , ` Go , my son , ' but he felt very lonely without his gazelle , and set out sooner than usual for the dust-heap where he generally found most corn .
And glad he was when the evening came , and he could return home .
He lay on the grass chewing tobacco , when the gazelle trotted up .
` Good evening , my master ; how have you fared all day ?
I have been resting in the shade in a place where there is sweet grass when I am hungry , and fresh water when I am thirsty , and a soft breeze to fan me in the heat .
It is far away in the forest , and no one knows of it but me , and to-morrow I shall go again . '
So for five days the gazelle set off at daybreak for this cool spot , but on the fifth day it came to a place where the grass was bitter , and it did not like it , and scratched , hoping to tear away the bad blades .
But , instead , it saw something lying in the earth , which turned out to be a diamond , very large and bright .
` Oh , ho ! '
said the gazelle to itself , ` perhaps now I can do something for my master who bought me with all the money he had ; but I must be careful or they will say he has stolen it .
I had better take it myself to some great rich man , and see what it will do for me . '
Directly the gazelle had come to this conclusion , it picked up the diamond in its mouth , and went on and on and on through the forest , but found no place where a rich man was likely to dwell .
For two more days it ran , from dawn to dark , till at last early one morning it caught sight of a large town , which gave it fresh courage .
The people were standing about the streets doing their marketing , when the gazelle bounded past , the diamond flashing as it ran .
They called after it , but it took no notice till it reached the palace , where the sultan was sitting , enjoying the cool air .
And the gazelle galloped up to him , and laid the diamond at his feet .
The sultan looked first at the diamond and next at the gazelle ; then he ordered his attendants to bring cushions and a carpet , that the gazelle might rest itself after its long journey .
And he likewise ordered milk to be brought , and rice , that it might eat and drink and be refreshed .
And when the gazelle was rested , the sultan said to it : ` Give me the news you have come with . '
And the gazelle answered : ' I am come with this diamond , which is a pledge from my master the Sultan Darai .
He has heard you have a daughter , and sends you this small token , and begs you will give her to him to wife . '
And the sultan said : ' I am content .
The wife is his wife , the family is his family , the slave is his slave .
Let him come to me empty-handed , I am content . '
When the sultan had ended , the gazelle rose , and said : ` Master , farewell ; I go back to our town , and in eight days , or it may be in eleven days , we shall arrive as your guests . '
And the sultan answered : ` So let it be . '
All this time the poor man far away had been mourning and weeping for his gazelle , which he thought had run away from him for ever .
And when it came in at the door he rushed to embrace it with such joy that he would not allow it a chance to speak .
` Be still , master , and do n't cry , ' said the gazelle at last ; ` let us sleep now , and in the morning , when I go , follow me . '
With the first ray of dawn they got up and went into the forest , and on the fifth day , as they were resting near a stream , the gazelle gave its master a sound beating , and then bade him stay where he was till it returned .
And the gazelle ran off , and about ten o'clock it came near the sultan 's palace , where the road was all lined with soldiers who were there to do honour to Sultan Darai .
And directly they caught sight of the gazelle in the distance one of the soldiers ran on and said , ` Sultan Darai is coming : I have seen the gazelle . '
Then the sultan rose up , and called his whole court to follow him , and went out to meet the gazelle , who , bounding up to him , gave him greeting .
The sultan answered politely , and inquired where it had left its master , whom it had promised to bring back .
` Alas ! '
replied the gazelle , ` he is lying in the forest , for on our way here we were met by robbers , who , after beating and robbing him , took away all his clothes .
And he is now hiding under a bush , lest a passing stranger might see him . '
The sultan , on hearing what had happened to his future son-in-law , turned his horse and rode to the palace , and bade a groom to harness the best horse in the stable and order a woman slave to bring a bag of clothes , such as a man might want , out of the chest ; and he chose out a tunic and a turban and a sash for the waist , and fetched himself a gold-hilted sword , and a dagger and a pair of sandals , and a stick of sweet-smelling wood .
` Now , ' said he to the gazelle , ` take these things with the soldiers to the sultan , that he may be able to come . '
And the gazelle answered : ` Can I take those soldiers to go and put my master to shame as he lies there naked ?
I am enough by myself , my lord . '
` How will you be enough , ' asked the sultan , ` to manage this horse and all these clothes ? '
` Oh , that is easily done , ' replied the gazelle .
` Fasten the horse to my neck and tie the clothes to the back of the horse , and be sure they are fixed firmly , as I shall go faster than he does . '
Everything was carried out as the gazelle had ordered , and when all was ready it said to the sultan : ` Farewell , my lord , I am going . '
` Farewell , gazelle , ' answered the sultan ; ` when shall we see you again ? '
` To-morrow about five , ' replied the gazelle , and , giving a tug to the horse 's rein , they set off at a gallop .
The sultan watched them till they were out of sight : then he said to his attendants , ` That gazelle comes from gentle hands , from the house of a sultan , and that is what makes it so different from other gazelles . '
And in the eyes of the sultan the gazelle became a person of consequence .
Meanwhile the gazelle ran on till it came to the place where its master was seated , and his heart laughed when he saw the gazelle .
And the gazelle said to him , ` Get up , my master , and bathe in the stream ! '
and when the man had bathed it said again , ` Now rub yourself well with earth , and rub your teeth well with sand to make them bright and shining . '
And when this was done it said , ` The sun has gone down behind the hills ; it is time for us to go ' : so it went and brought the clothes from the back of the horse , and the man put them on and was well pleased .
` Master ! '
said the gazelle when the man was ready , ` be sure that where we are going you keep silence , except for giving greetings and asking for news .
Leave all the talking to me .
I have provided you with a wife , and have made her presents of clothes and turbans and rare and precious things , so it is needless for you to speak . '
` Very good , I will be silent , ' replied the man as he mounted the horse .
` You have given all this ; it is you who are the master , and I who am the slave , and I will obey you in all things . '
` So they went their way , and they went and went till the gazelle saw in the distance the palace of the sultan .
Then it said , ` Master , that is the house we are going to , and you are not a poor man any longer : even your name is new . '
` What IS my name , eh , my father ? '
asked the man .
` Sultan Darai , ' said the gazelle .
Very soon some soldiers came to meet them , while others ran off to tell the sultan of their approach .
And the sultan set off at once , and the viziers and the emirs , and the judges , and the rich men of the city , all followed him .
Directly the gazelle saw them coming , it said to its master : ` Your father-in-law is coming to meet you ; that is he in the middle , wearing a mantle of sky-blue .
Get off your horse and go to greet him . '
And Sultan Darai leapt from his horse , and so did the other sultan , and they gave their hands to one another and kissed each other , and went together into the palace .
The next morning the gazelle went to the rooms of the sultan , and said to him : ` My lord , we want you to marry us our wife , for the soul of Sultan Darai is eager . '
` The wife is ready , so call the priest , ' answered he , and when the ceremony was over a cannon was fired and music was played , and within the palace there was feasting .
` Master , ' said the gazelle the following morning , ' I am setting out on a journey , and I shall not be back for seven days , and perhaps not then .
But be careful not to leave the house till I come . '
And the master answered , ' I will not leave the house . '
And it went to the sultan of the country and said to him : ` My lord , Sultan Darai has sent me to his town to get the house in order .
It will take me seven days , and if I am not back in seven days he will not leave the palace till I return . '
` Very good , ' said the sultan .
And it went and it went through the forest and wilderness , till it arrived at a town full of fine houses .
At the end of the chief road was a great house , beautiful exceedingly , built of sapphire and turquoise and marbles .
` That , ' thought the gazelle , ` is the house for my master , and I will call up my courage and go and look at the people who are in it , if any people there are .
For in this town have I as yet seen no people .
If I die , I die , and if I live , I live .
Here can I think of no plan , so if anything is to kill me , it will kill me . '
Then it knocked twice at the door , and cried ` Open , ' but no one answered .
And it cried again , and a voice replied : ` Who are you that are crying `` Open '' ? '
And the gazelle said , ` It is I , great mistress , your grandchild . '
` If you are my grandchild , ' returned the voice , ` go back whence you came .
Do n't come and die here , and bring me to my death as well . '
` Open , mistress , I entreat , I have something to say to you . '
` Grandchild , ' replied she , ' I fear to put your life in danger , and my own too . '
` Oh , mistress , my life will not be lost , nor yours either ; open , I pray you . '
So she opened the door .
` What is the news where you come from , my grandson , ' asked she .
` Great lady , where I come from it is well , and with you it is well . '
` Ah , my son , here it is not well at all .
If you seek a way to die , or if you have not yet seen death , then is to-day the day for you to know what dying is . '
` If I am to know it , I shall know it , ' replied the gazelle ; ` but tell me , who is the lord of this house ? '
And she said : ` Ah , father !
in this house is much wealth , and much people , and much food , and many horses .
And the lord of it all is an exceeding great and wonderful snake . '
` Oh ! '
cried the gazelle when he heard this ; ` tell me how I can get at the snake to kill him ? '
` My son , ' returned the old woman , ` do not say words like these ; you risk both our lives .
He has put me here all by myself , and I have to cook his food .
When the great snake is coming there springs up a wind , and blows the dust about , and this goes on till the great snake glides into the courtyard and calls for his dinner , which must always be ready for him in those big pots .
He eats till he has had enough , and then drinks a whole tankful of water .
After that he goes away .
Every second day he comes , when the sun is over the house .
And he has seven heads .
How then can you be a match for him , my son ? '
` Mind your own business , mother , ' answered the gazelle , ` and do n't mind other people 's !
Has this snake a sword ? '
` He has a sword , and a sharp one too .
It cuts like a dash of lightning . '
` Give it to me , mother ! '
said the gazelle , and she unhooked the sword from the wall , as she was bidden .
` You must be quick , ' she said , ` for he may be here at any moment .
Hark !
is not that the wind rising ?
He has come ! '
They were silent , but the old woman peeped from behind a curtain , and saw the snake busy at the pots which she had placed ready for him in the courtyard .
And after he had done eating and drinking he came to the door : ` You old body ! '
he cried ; ` what smell is that I smell inside that is not the smell of every day ? '
` Oh , master ! '
answered she , ' I am alone , as I always am !
But to-day , after many days , I have sprinkled fresh scent all over me , and it is that which you smell .
What else could it be , master ? '
All this time the gazelle had been standing close to the door , holding the sword in one of its front paws .
And as the snake put one of his heads through the hole that he had made so as to get in and out comfortably , it cut it of so clean that the snake really did not feel it .
The second blow was not quite so straight , for the snake said to himself , ` Who is that who is trying to scratch me ? '
and stretched out his third head to see ; but no sooner was the neck through the hole than the head went rolling to join the rest .
When six of his heads were gone the snake lashed his tail with such fury that the gazelle and the old woman could not see each other for the dust he made .
And the gazelle said to him , ` You have climbed all sorts of trees , but this you ca n't climb , ' and as the seventh head came darting through it went rolling to join the rest .
Then the sword fell rattling on the ground , for the gazelle had fainted .
The old woman shrieked with delight when she saw her enemy was dead , and ran to bring water to the gazelle , and fanned it , and put it where the wind could blow on it , till it grew better and gave a sneeze .
And the heart of the old woman was glad , and she gave it more water , till by-and-by the gazelle got up .
` Show me this house , ' it said , ` from beginning to end , from top to bottom , from inside to out . '
So she arose and showed the gazelle rooms full of gold and precious things , and other rooms full of slaves .
` They are all yours , goods and slaves , ' said she .
But the gazelle answered , ` You must keep them safe till I call my master . '
For two days it lay and rested in the house , and fed on milk and rice , and on the third day it bade the old woman farewell and started back to its master .
And when he heard that the gazelle was at the door he felt like a man who has found the time when all prayers are granted , and he rose and kissed it , saying : ` My father , you have been a long time ; you have left sorrow with me .
I can not eat , I can not drink , I can not laugh ; my heart felt no smile at anything , because of thinking of you . '
And the gazelle answered : ' I am well , and where I come from it is well , and I wish that after four days you would take your wife and go home . '
And he said : ` It is for you to speak .
Where you go , I will follow . '
` Then I shall go to your father-in-law and tell him this news . '
` Go , my son . '
So the gazelle went to the father-in-law and said : ' I am sent by my master to come and tell you that after four days he will go away with his wife to his own home . '
` Must he really go so quickly ?
We have not yet sat much together , I and Sultan Darai , nor have we yet talked much together , nor have we yet ridden out together , nor have we eaten together ; yet it is fourteen days since he came . '
But the gazelle replied : ` My lord , you can not help it , for he wishes to go home , and nothing will stop him . '
` Very good , ' said the sultan , and he called all the people who were in the town , and commanded that the day his daughter left the palace ladies and guards were to attend her on her way .
And at the end of four days a great company of ladies and slaves and horses went forth to escort the wife of Sultan Darai to her new home .
They rode all day , and when the sun sank behind the hills they rested , and ate of the food the gazelle gave them , and lay down to sleep .
And they journeyed on for many days , and they all , nobles and slaves , loved the gazelle with a great love -- more than they loved the Sultan Darai .
At last one day signs of houses appeared , far , far off .
And those who saw cried out , ` Gazelle ! '
And it answered , ` Ah , my mistresses , that is the house of Sultan Darai . '
At this news the women rejoiced much , and the slaves rejoiced much , and in the space of two hours they came to the gates , and the gazelle bade them all stay behind , and it went on to the house with Sultan Darai .
When the old woman saw them coming through the courtyard she jumped and shouted for joy , and as the gazelle drew near she seized it in her arms , and kissed it .
The gazelle did not like this , and said to her : ` Old woman , leave me alone ; the one to be carried is my master , and the one to be kissed is my master . '
And she answered , ` Forgive me , my son .
I did not know this was our master , ' and she threw open all the doors so that the master might see everything that the rooms and storehouses contained .
Sultan Darai looked about him , and at length he said : ` Unfasten those horses that are tied up , and let loose those people that are bound .
And let some sweep , and some spread the beds , and some cook , and some draw water , and some come out and receive the mistress . '
And when the sultana and her ladies and her slaves entered the house , and saw the rich stuffs it was hung with , and the beautiful rice that was prepared for them to eat , they cried : ` Ah , you gazelle , we have seen great houses , we have seen people , we have heard of things .
But this house , and you , such as you are , we have never seen or heard of . '
After a few days , the ladies said they wished to go home again .
The gazelle begged them hard to stay , but finding they would not , it brought many gifts , and gave some to the ladies and some to their slaves .
And they all thought the gazelle greater a thousand times than its master , Sultan Darai .
The gazelle and its master remained in the house many weeks , and one day it said to the old woman , ' I came with my master to this place , and I have done many things for my master , good things , and till to-day he has never asked me : `` Well , my gazelle , how did you get this house ?
Who is the owner of it ?
And this town , were there no people in it ? ''
All good things I have done for the master , and he has not one day done me any good thing .
But people say , `` If you want to do any one good , do n't do him good only , do him evil also , and there will be peace between you . ''
So , mother , I have done : I want to see the favours I have done to my master , that he may do me the like . '
` Good , ' replied the old woman , and they went to bed .
In the morning , when light came , the gazelle was sick in its stomach and feverish , and its legs ached .
And it said ` Mother ! '
And she answered , ` Here , my son ? '
And it said , ` Go and tell my master upstairs the gazelle is very ill . '
` Very good , my son ; and if he should ask me what is the matter , what am I to say ? '
` Tell him all my body aches badly ; I have no single part without pain . '
The old woman went upstairs , and she found the mistress and master sitting on a couch of marble spread with soft cushions , and they asked her , ` Well , old woman , what do you want ? '
` To tell the master the gazelle is ill , ' said she .
` What is the matter ? '
asked the wife .
` All its body pains ; there is no part without pain . '
` Well , what can I do ?
Make some gruel of red millet , and give to it . '
But his wife stared and said : ` Oh , master , do you tell her to make the gazelle gruel out of red millet , which a horse would not eat ?
Eh , master , that is not well . '
But he answered , ` Oh , you are mad !
Rice is only kept for people . '
` Eh , master , this is not like a gazelle .
It is the apple of your eye .
If sand got into that , it would trouble you . '
` My wife , your tongue is long , ' and he left the room .
The old woman saw she had spoken vainly , and went back weeping to the gazelle .
And when the gazelle saw her it said , ` Mother , what is it , and why do you cry ?
If it be good , give me the answer ; and if it be bad , give me the answer . '
But still the old woman would not speak , and the gazelle prayed her to let it know the words of the master .
At last she said : ' I went upstairs and found the mistress and the master sitting on a couch , and he asked me what I wanted , and I told him that you , his slave , were ill .
And his wife asked what was the matter , and I told her that there was not a part of your body without pain .
And the master told me to take some red millet and make you gruel , but the mistress said , ` Eh , master , the gazelle is the apple of your eye ; you have no child , this gazelle is like your child ; so this gazelle is not one to be done evil to .
This is a gazelle in form , but not a gazelle in heart ; he is in all things better than a gentleman , be he who he may . '
And he answered her , ` Silly chatterer , your words are many .
I know its price ; I bought it for an eighth .
What loss will it be to me ? '
The gazelle kept silence for a few moments .
Then it said , ` The elders said , `` One that does good like a mother , '' and I have done him good , and I have got this that the elders said .
But go up again to the master , and tell him the gazelle is very ill , and it has not drunk the gruel of red millet . '
So the old woman returned , and found the master and the mistress drinking coffee .
And when he heard what the gazelle had said , he cried : ` Hold your peace , old woman , and stay your feet and close your eyes , and stop your ears with wax ; and if the gazelle bids you come to me , say your legs are bent , and you can not walk ; and if it begs you to listen , say your ears are stopped with wax ; and if it wishes to talk , reply that your tongue has got a hook in it . '
The heart of the old woman wept as she heard such words , because she saw that when the gazelle first came to that town it was ready to sell its life to buy wealth for its master .
Then it happened to get both life and wealth , but now it had no honour with its master .
And tears sprung likewise to the eyes of the sultan 's wife , and she said , ' I am sorry for you , my husband , that you should deal so wickedly with that gazelle ' ; but he only answered , ` Old woman , pay no heed to the talk of the mistress : tell it to perish out of the way .
I can not sleep , I can not eat , I can not drink , for the worry of that gazelle .
Shall a creature that I bought for an eighth trouble me from morning till night ?
Not so , old woman ! '
The old woman went downstairs , and there lay the gazelle , blood flowing from its nostrils .
And she took it in her arms and said , ` My son , the good you did is lost ; there remains only patience . '
And it said , ` Mother , I shall die , for my soul is full of anger and bitterness .
My face is ashamed , that I should have done good to my master , and that he should repay me with evil . '
It paused for a moment , and then went on , ` Mother , of the goods that are in this house , what do I eat ?
I might have every day half a basinful , and would my master be any the poorer ?
But did not the elders say , `` He that does good like a mother ! '' '
And it said , ` Go and tell my master that the gazelle is nearer death than life . '
So she went , and spoke as the gazelle had bidden her ; but he answered , ' I have told you to trouble me no more . '
But his wife 's heart was sore , and she said to him : ` Ah , master , what has the gazelle done to you ?
How has he failed you ?
The things you do to him are not good , and you will draw on yourself the hatred of the people .
For this gazelle is loved by all , by small and great , by women and men .
Ah , my husband !
I thought you had great wisdom , and you have not even a little ! '
But he answered , ` You are mad , my wife . '
The old woman stayed no longer , and went back to the gazelle , followed secretly by the mistress , who called a maidservant and bade her take some milk and rice and cook it for the gazelle .
` Take also this cloth , ' she said , ` to cover it with , and this pillow for its head .
And if the gazelle wants more , let it ask me , and not its master .
And if it will , I will send it in a litter to my father , and he will nurse it till it is well . '
And the maidservant did as her mistress bade her , and said what her mistress had told her to say , but the gazelle made no answer , but turned over on its side and died quietly .
When the news spread abroad , there was much weeping among the people , and Sultan Darai arose in wrath , and cried , ` You weep for that gazelle as if you wept for me !
And , after all , what is it but a gazelle , that I bought for an eighth ? '
But his wife answered , ` Master , we looked upon that gazelle as we looked upon you .
It was the gazelle who came to ask me of my father , it was the gazelle who brought me from my father , and I was given in charge to the gazelle by my father . '
And when the people heard her they lifted up their voices and spoke : ` We never saw you , we saw the gazelle .
It was the gazelle who met with trouble here , it was the gazelle who met with rest here .
So , then , when such an one departs from this world we weep for ourselves , we do not weep for the gazelle . '
And they said furthermore : ` The gazelle did you much good , and if anyone says he could have done more for you he is a liar !
Therefore , to us who have done you no good , what treatment will you give ?
The gazelle has died from bitterness of soul , and you ordered your slaves to throw it into the well .
Ah !
leave us alone that we may weep . '
But Sultan Darai would not heed their words , and the dead gazelle was thrown into the well .
When the mistress heard of it , she sent three slaves , mounted on donkeys , with a letter to her father the sultan , and when the sultan had read the letter he bowed his head and wept , like a man who had lost his mother .
And he commanded horses to be saddled , and called the governor and the judges and all the rich men , and said : ` Come now with me ; let us go and bury it . '
Night and day they travelled , till the sultan came to the well where the gazelle had been thrown .
And it was a large well , built round a rock , with room for many people ; and the sultan entered , and the judges and the rich men followed him .
And when he saw the gazelle lying there he wept afresh , and took it in his arms and carried it away .
When the three slaves went and told their mistress what the sultan had done , and how all the people were weeping , she answered : ' I too have eaten no food , neither have I drunk water , since the day the gazelle died .
I have not spoken , and I have not laughed . '
The sultan took the gazelle and buried it , and ordered the people to wear mourning for it , so there was great mourning throughout the city .
Now after the days of mourning were at an end , the wife was sleeping at her husband 's side , and in her sleep she dreamed that she was once more in her father 's house , and when she woke up it was no dream .
And the man dreamed that he was on the dust-heap , scratching .
And when he woke , behold !
that also was no dream , but the truth .
-LRB- Swahili Tales . -RRB-
HOW A FISH SWAM IN THE AIR AND A HARE IN THE WATER .
Once upon a time an old man and his wife lived together in a little village .
They might have been happy if only the old woman had had the sense to hold her tongue at proper times .
But anything which might happen indoors , or any bit of news which her husband might bring in when he had been anywhere , had to be told at once to the whole village , and these tales were repeated and altered till it often happened that much mischief was made , and the old man 's back paid for it .
One day , he drove to the forest .
When he reached the edge of it he got out of his cart and walked beside it .
Suddenly he stepped on such a soft spot that his foot sank in the earth .
` What can this be ? '
thought he .
` I 'll dig a bit and see . '
So he dug and dug , and at last he came on a little pot full of gold and silver .
` Oh , what luck !
Now , if only I knew how I could take this treasure home with me -- but I can never hope to hide it from my wife , and once she knows of it she 'll tell all the world , and then I shall get into trouble . '
He sat down and thought over the matter a long time , and at last he made a plan .
He covered up the pot again with earth and twigs , and drove on into the town , where he bought a live pike and a live hare in the market .
Then he drove back to the forest and hung the pike up at the very top of a tree , and tied up the hare in a fishing net and fastened it on the edge of a little stream , not troubling himself to think how unpleasant such a wet spot was likely to be to the hare .
Then he got into his cart and trotted merrily home .
` Wife ! '
cried he , the moment he got indoors .
` You ca n't think what a piece of good luck has come our way . '
` What , what , dear husband ?
Do tell me all about it at once . '
` No , no , you 'll just go off and tell everyone . '
` No , indeed !
How can you think such things !
For shame !
If you like I will swear never to -- ' ` Oh , well !
if you are really in earnest then , listen . '
And he whispered in her ear : ` I 've found a pot full of gold and silver in the forest !
Hush !
-- ' ` And why did n't you bring it back ? '
` Because we 'll drive there together and bring it carefully back between us . '
So the man and his wife drove to the forest .
As they were driving along the man said : ` What strange things one hears , wife !
I was told only the other day that fish will now live and thrive in the tree tops and that some wild animals spend their time in the water .
Well !
well !
times are certainly changed . '
` Why , you must be crazy , husband !
Dear , dear , what nonsense people do talk sometimes . '
` Nonsense , indeed !
Why , just look .
Bless my soul , if there is n't a fish , a real pike I do believe , up in that tree . '
` Gracious ! '
cried his wife .
` How did a pike get there ?
It IS a pike -- you need n't attempt to say it 's not .
Can people have said true -- ' But the man only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders and opened his mouth and gaped as if he really could not believe his own eyes .
` What are you standing staring at there , stupid ? '
said his wife .
` Climb up the tree quick and catch the pike , and we 'll cook it for dinner . '
The man climbed up the tree and brought down the pike , and they drove on .
When they got near the stream he drew up .
` What are you staring at again ? '
asked his wife impatiently .
` Drive on , ca n't you ? '
` Why , I seem to see something moving in that net I set .
I must just go and see what it is . '
He ran to it , and when he had looked in it he called to his wife : ` Just look !
Here is actually a four-footed creature caught in the net .
I do believe it 's a hare . '
` Good heavens ! '
cried his wife .
` How did the hare get into your net ?
It IS a hare , so you need n't say it is n't .
After all , people must have said the truth -- ' But her husband only shook his head and shrugged his shoulders as if he could not believe his own eyes .
` Now what are you standing there for , stupid ? '
cried his wife .
` Take up the hare .
A nice fat hare is a dinner for a feast day . '
The old man caught up the hare , and they drove on to the place where the treasure was buried .
They swept the twigs away , dug up the earth , took out the pot , and drove home again with it .
And now the old couple had plenty of money and were cheery and comfortable .
But the wife was very foolish .
Every day she asked a lot of people to dinner and feasted them , till her husband grew quite impatient .
He tried to reason with her , but she would not listen .
` You 've got no right to lecture me ! '
said she .
` We found the treasure together , and together we will spend it . '
Her husband took patience , but at length he said to her : ` You may do as you please , but I sha 'n' t give you another penny . '
The old woman was very angry .
` Oh , what a good-for-nothing fellow to want to spend all the money himself !
But just wait a bit and see what I shall do . '
Off she went to the governor to complain of her husband .
` Oh , my lord , protect me from my husband !
Ever since he found the treasure there is no bearing him .
He only eats and drinks , and wo n't work , and he keeps all the money to himself . '
The governor took pity on the woman , and ordered his chief secretary to look into the matter .
The secretary called the elders of the village together , and went with them to the man 's house .
` The governor , ' said he , ` desires you to give all that treasure you found into my care . '
The man shrugged his shoulders and said : ` What treasure ?
I know nothing about a treasure . '
` How ?
You know nothing ?
Why your wife has complained of you .
Do n't attempt to tell lies .
If you do n't hand over all the money at once you will be tried for daring to raise treasure without giving due notice to the governor about it . '
` Pardon me , your excellency , but what sort of treasure was it supposed to have been ?
My wife must have dreamt of it , and you gentlemen have listened to her nonsense . '
` Nonsense , indeed , ' broke in his wife . '
A kettle full of gold and silver , do you call that nonsense ? '
` You are not in your right mind , dear wife .
Sir , I beg your pardon .
Ask her how it all happened , and if she convinces you I 'll pay for it with my life . '
` This is how it all happened , Mr. Secretary , ' cried the wife .
` We were driving through the forest , and we saw a pike up in the top of a tree -- ' ` What , a PIKE ? '
shouted the secretary .
` Do you think you may joke with me , pray ? '
` Indeed , I 'm not joking , Mr. Secretary !
I 'm speaking the bare truth . '
` Now you see , gentlemen , ' said her husband , ` how far you can trust her , when she chatters like this . '
` Chatter , indeed ?
I !!
Perhaps you have forgotten , too , how we found a live hare in the river ? '
Everyone roared with laughter ; even the secretary smiled and stroked his beard , and the man said : ` Come , come , wife , everyone is laughing at you .
You see for yourself , gentlemen , how far you can believe her . '
` Yes , indeed , ' said the village elders , ` it is certainly the first time we have heard that hares thrive in the water or fish among the tree tops . '
The secretary could make nothing of it all , and drove back to the town .
The old woman was so laughed at that she had to hold her tongue and obey her husband ever after , and the man bought wares with part of the treasure and moved into the town , where he opened a shop , and prospered , and spent the rest of his days in peace .
TWO IN A SACK What a life that poor man led with his wife , to be sure !
Not a day passed without her scolding him and calling him names , and indeed sometimes she would take the broom from behind the stove and beat him with it .
He had no peace or comfort at all , and really hardly knew how to bear it .
One day , when his wife had been particularly unkind and had beaten him black and blue , he strolled slowly into the fields , and as he could not endure to be idle he spread out his nets .
What kind of bird do you think he caught in his net ?
He caught a crane , and the crane said , ` Let me go free , and I 'll show myself grateful . '
The man answered , ` No , my dear fellow .
I shall take you home , and then perhaps my wife wo n't scold me so much . '
Said the crane : ` You had better come with me to my house , ' and so they went to the crane 's house .
When they got there , what do you think the crane took from the wall ?
He took down a sack , and he said : ` Two out of a sack ! '
Instantly two pretty lads sprang out of the sack .
They brought in oak tables , which they spread with silken covers , and placed all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks on them .
The man had never seen anything so beautiful in his life , and he was delighted .
Then the crane said to him , ` Now take this sack to your wife . '
The man thanked him warmly , took the sack , and set out .
His home was a good long way off , and as it was growing dark , and he was feeling tired , he stopped to rest at his cousin 's house by the way .
The cousin had three daughters , who laid out a tempting supper , but the man would eat nothing , and said to his cousin , ` Your supper is bad . '
` Oh , make the best of it , ' said she , but the man only said : ` Clear away ! '
and taking out his sack he cried , as the crane had taught him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And out came the two pretty boys , who quickly brought in the oak tables , spread the silken covers , and laid out all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks .
Never in their lives had the cousin and her daughters seen such a supper , and they were delighted and astonished at it .
But the cousin quietly made up her mind to steal the sack , so she called to her daughters : ` Go quickly and heat the bathroom : I am sure our dear guest would like to have a bath before he goes to bed . '
When the man was safe in the bathroom she told her daughters to make a sack exactly like his , as quickly as possible .
Then she changed the two sacks , and hid the man 's sack away .
The man enjoyed his bath , slept soundly , and set off early next morning , taking what he believed to be the sack the crane had given him .
All the way home he felt in such good spirits that he sang and whistled as he walked through the wood , and never noticed how the birds were twittering and laughing at him .
As soon as he saw his house he began to shout from a distance , ` Hallo !
old woman !
Come out and meet me ! '
His wife screamed back : ` You come here , and I 'll give you a good thrashing with the poker ! '
The man walked into the house , hung his sack on a nail , and said , as the crane had taught him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
But not a soul came out of the sack .
Then he said again , exactly as the crane had taught him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
His wife , hearing him chattering goodness knows what , took up her wet broom and swept the ground all about him .
The man took flight and rushed oft into the field , and there he found the crane marching proudly about , and to him he told his tale .
` Come back to my house , ' said the crane , and so they went to the crane 's house , and as soon as they got there , what did the crane take down from the wall ?
Why , he took down a sack , and he said : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And instantly two pretty lads sprang out of the sack , brought in oak tables , on which they laid silken covers , and spread all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks on them .
` Take this sack , ' said the crane .
The man thanked him heartily , took the sack , and went .
He had a long way to walk , and as he presently got hungry , he said to the sack , as the crane had taught him : ` Two out of the sack ! '
And instantly two rough men with thick sticks crept out of the bag and began to beat him well , crying as they did so : ` Do n't boast to your cousins of what you have got , One -- two -- Or you 'll find you will catch it uncommonly hot , One -- two -- ' And they beat on till the man panted out : ` Two into the sack . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth , when the two crept back into the sack .
Then the man shouldered the sack , and went off straight to his cousin 's house .
He hung the sack up on a nail , and said : ` Please have the bathroom heated , cousin . '
The cousin heated the bathroom , and the man went into it , but he neither washed nor rubbed himself , he just sat there and waited .
Meantime his cousin felt hungry , so she called her daughters , and all four sat down to table .
Then the mother said : ` Two out of the sack . '
Instantly two rough men crept out of the sack , and began to beat the cousin as they cried : ` Greedy pack !
Thievish pack !
One -- two -- Give the peasant back his sack !
One -- two -- ' And they went on beating till the woman called to her eldest daughter : ` Go and fetch your cousin from the bathroom .
Tell him these two ruffians are beating me black and blue . '
` I 've not finished rubbing myself yet , ' said the peasant .
And the two ruffians kept on beating as they sang : ` Greedy pack !
Thievish pack !
One -- two -- Give the peasant back his sack !
One -- two -- ' Then the woman sent her second daughter and said : ` Quick , quick , get him to come to me . '
` I 'm just washing my head , ' said the man .
Then she sent the youngest girl , and he said : ` I 've not done drying myself . '
At last the woman could hold out no longer , and sent him the sack she had stolen .
NOW he had quite finished his bath , and as he left the bathroom he cried : ` Two into the sack . '
And the two crept back at once into the sack .
Then the man took both sacks , the good and the bad one , and went away home .
When he was near the house he shouted : ` Hallo , old woman , come and meet me ! '
His wife only screamed out : ` You broomstick , come here !
Your back shall pay for this . '
The man went into the cottage , hung his sack on a nail , and said , as the crane had taught him : ` Two out of the sack . '
Instantly two pretty lads sprang out of the sack , brought in oak tables , laid silken covers on them , and spread them with all sorts of delicious dishes and refreshing drinks .
The woman ate and drank , and praised her husband .
` Well , now , old man , I wo n't beat you any more , ' said she .
When they had done eating , the man carried off the good sack , and put it away in his store-room , but hung the bad sack up on the nail .
Then he lounged up and down in the yard .
Meantime his wife became thirsty .
She looked with longing eyes at the sack , and at last she said , as her husband had done : ` Two out of the sack . '
And at once the two rogues with their big sticks crept out of the sack , and began to belabour her as they sang : ` Would you beat your husband true ?
Do n't cry so !
Now we 'll beat you black and blue !
Oh !
Oh ! '
The woman screamed out : ` Old man , old man !
Come here , quick !
Here are two ruffians pommelling me fit to break my bones . '
Her husband only strolled up and down and laughed , as he said : ` Yes , they 'll beat you well , old lady . '
And the two thumped away and sang again : ` Blows will hurt , remember , crone , We mean you well , we mean you well ; In future leave the stick alone , For how it hurts , you now can tell , One -- two -- ' At last her husband took pity on her , and cried : ` Two into the sack . '
He had hardly said the words before they were back in the sack again .
From this time the man and his wife lived so happily together that it was a pleasure to see them , and so the story has an end .
-LRB- From Russiche Marchen . -RRB-
THE ENVIOUS NEIGHBOUR Long , long ago an old couple lived in a village , and , as they had no children to love and care for , they gave all their affection to a little dog .
He was a pretty little creature , and instead of growing spoilt and disagreeable at not getting everything he wanted , as even children will do sometimes , the dog was grateful to them for their kindness , and never left their side , whether they were in the house or out of it .
One day the old man was working in his garden , with his dog , as usual , close by .
The morning was hot , and at last he put down his spade and wiped his wet forehead , noticing , as he did so , that the animal was snuffling and scratching at a spot a little way off .
There was nothing very strange in this , as all dogs are fond of scratching , and he went on quietly with his digging , when the dog ran up to his master , barking loudly , and back again to the place where he had been scratching .
This he did several times , till the old man wondered what could be the matter , and , picking up the spade , followed where the dog led him .
The dog was so delighted at his success that he jumped round , barking loudly , till the noise brought the old woman out of the house .
Curious to know if the dog had really found anything , the husband began to dig , and very soon the spade struck against something .
He stooped down and pulled out a large box , filled quite full with shining gold pieces .
The box was so heavy that the old woman had to help to carry it home , and you may guess what a supper the dog had that night !
