A TANGLED TALE .
Reprinted from The Monthly Packet .
With Six Illustrations by ARTHUR B. FROST .
-LRB- First published in 1885 . -RRB-
Crown 8vo , cloth , gilt edges , 4_s .
6_d .
Third Thousand .
THE GAME OF LOGIC .
-LRB- With an Envelope containing a card diagram and nine counters -- four red and five grey . -RRB-
Crown 8vo , cloth , price 3_s .
N.B. -- The Envelope , etc. , may be had separately at 3_d .
each .
ALICE 'S ADVENTURES UNDER GROUND .
Being a Facsimile of the original MS. Book , afterwards developed into `` Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland . ''
With Thirty-seven Illustrations by the Author .
Crown 8vo , cloth , gilt edges .
4_s .
THE NURSERY ALICE .
A selection of twenty of the pictures in `` Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland , '' enlarged and coloured under the Artist 's superintendence , with explanations .
-LSB- In preparation .
* * * * * N.B. .
In selling the above-mentioned books to the Trade , Messrs. Macmillan and Co. will abate 2_d .
in the shilling -LRB- no odd copies -RRB- , and allow 5 per cent .
discount for payment within six months , and 10 per cent .
for cash .
In selling them to the Public -LRB- for cash only -RRB- they will allow 10 per cent .
discount .
* * * * * MR. LEWIS CARROLL , having been requested to allow `` AN EASTER GREETING '' -LRB- a leaflet , addressed to children , first published in 1876 , and frequently given with his books -RRB- to be sold separately , has arranged with Messrs. Harrison , of 59 , Pall Mall , who will supply a single copy for 1_d .
, or 12 for 9_d .
, or 100 for 5_s .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lewis_Carroll___Through_the_Looking-Glass.txt.out
CHAPTER I. Looking-Glass house One thing was certain , that the WHITE kitten had had nothing to do with it : -- it was the black kitten 's fault entirely .
For the white kitten had been having its face washed by the old cat for the last quarter of an hour -LRB- and bearing it pretty well , considering -RRB- ; so you see that it COULD N'T have had any hand in the mischief .
The way Dinah washed her children 's faces was this : first she held the poor thing down by its ear with one paw , and then with the other paw she rubbed its face all over , the wrong way , beginning at the nose : and just now , as I said , she was hard at work on the white kitten , which was lying quite still and trying to purr -- no doubt feeling that it was all meant for its good .
But the black kitten had been finished with earlier in the afternoon , and so , while Alice was sitting curled up in a corner of the great arm-chair , half talking to herself and half asleep , the kitten had been having a grand game of romps with the ball of worsted Alice had been trying to wind up , and had been rolling it up and down till it had all come undone again ; and there it was , spread over the hearth-rug , all knots and tangles , with the kitten running after its own tail in the middle .
` Oh , you wicked little thing ! '
cried Alice , catching up the kitten , and giving it a little kiss to make it understand that it was in disgrace .
` Really , Dinah ought to have taught you better manners !
You OUGHT , Dinah , you know you ought ! '
she added , looking reproachfully at the old cat , and speaking in as cross a voice as she could manage -- and then she scrambled back into the arm-chair , taking the kitten and the worsted with her , and began winding up the ball again .
But she did n't get on very fast , as she was talking all the time , sometimes to the kitten , and sometimes to herself .
Kitty sat very demurely on her knee , pretending to watch the progress of the winding , and now and then putting out one paw and gently touching the ball , as if it would be glad to help , if it might .
` Do you know what to-morrow is , Kitty ? '
Alice began .
` You 'd have guessed if you 'd been up in the window with me -- only Dinah was making you tidy , so you could n't .
I was watching the boys getting in sticks for the bonfire -- and it wants plenty of sticks , Kitty !
Only it got so cold , and it snowed so , they had to leave off .
Never mind , Kitty , we 'll go and see the bonfire to-morrow . '
Here Alice wound two or three turns of the worsted round the kitten 's neck , just to see how it would look : this led to a scramble , in which the ball rolled down upon the floor , and yards and yards of it got unwound again .
` Do you know , I was so angry , Kitty , ' Alice went on as soon as they were comfortably settled again , ` when I saw all the mischief you had been doing , I was very nearly opening the window , and putting you out into the snow !
And you 'd have deserved it , you little mischievous darling !
What have you got to say for yourself ?
Now do n't interrupt me ! '
she went on , holding up one finger .
` I 'm going to tell you all your faults .
Number one : you squeaked twice while Dinah was washing your face this morning .
Now you ca n't deny it , Kitty : I heard you !
What 's that you say ? '
-LRB- pretending that the kitten was speaking . -RRB-
` Her paw went into your eye ?
Well , that 's YOUR fault , for keeping your eyes open -- if you 'd shut them tight up , it would n't have happened .
Now do n't make any more excuses , but listen !
Number two : you pulled Snowdrop away by the tail just as I had put down the saucer of milk before her !
What , you were thirsty , were you ?
How do you know she was n't thirsty too ?
Now for number three : you unwound every bit of the worsted while I was n't looking !
` That 's three faults , Kitty , and you 've not been punished for any of them yet .
You know I 'm saving up all your punishments for Wednesday week -- Suppose they had saved up all MY punishments ! '
she went on , talking more to herself than the kitten .
` What WOULD they do at the end of a year ?
I should be sent to prison , I suppose , when the day came .
Or -- let me see -- suppose each punishment was to be going without a dinner : then , when the miserable day came , I should have to go without fifty dinners at once !
Well , I should n't mind THAT much !
I 'd far rather go without them than eat them !
` Do you hear the snow against the window-panes , Kitty ?
How nice and soft it sounds !
Just as if some one was kissing the window all over outside .
I wonder if the snow LOVES the trees and fields , that it kisses them so gently ?
And then it covers them up snug , you know , with a white quilt ; and perhaps it says , `` Go to sleep , darlings , till the summer comes again . ''
And when they wake up in the summer , Kitty , they dress themselves all in green , and dance about -- whenever the wind blows -- oh , that 's very pretty ! '
cried Alice , dropping the ball of worsted to clap her hands .
` And I do so WISH it was true !
I 'm sure the woods look sleepy in the autumn , when the leaves are getting brown .
` Kitty , can you play chess ?
Now , do n't smile , my dear , I 'm asking it seriously .
Because , when we were playing just now , you watched just as if you understood it : and when I said `` Check ! ''
you purred !
Well , it WAS a nice check , Kitty , and really I might have won , if it had n't been for that nasty Knight , that came wiggling down among my pieces .
Kitty , dear , let 's pretend -- ' And here I wish I could tell you half the things Alice used to say , beginning with her favourite phrase ` Let 's pretend . '
She had had quite a long argument with her sister only the day before -- all because Alice had begun with ` Let 's pretend we 're kings and queens ; ' and her sister , who liked being very exact , had argued that they could n't , because there were only two of them , and Alice had been reduced at last to say , ` Well , YOU can be one of them then , and I 'LL be all the rest . '
And once she had really frightened her old nurse by shouting suddenly in her ear , ` Nurse !
Do let 's pretend that I 'm a hungry hyaena , and you 're a bone . '
But this is taking us away from Alice 's speech to the kitten .
` Let 's pretend that you 're the Red Queen , Kitty !
Do you know , I think if you sat up and folded your arms , you 'd look exactly like her .
Now do try , there 's a dear ! '
And Alice got the Red Queen off the table , and set it up before the kitten as a model for it to imitate : however , the thing did n't succeed , principally , Alice said , because the kitten would n't fold its arms properly .
So , to punish it , she held it up to the Looking-glass , that it might see how sulky it was -- ` and if you 're not good directly , ' she added , ` I 'll put you through into Looking-glass House .
How would you like THAT ? '
` Now , if you 'll only attend , Kitty , and not talk so much , I 'll tell you all my ideas about Looking-glass House .
First , there 's the room you can see through the glass -- that 's just the same as our drawing room , only the things go the other way .
I can see all of it when I get upon a chair -- all but the bit behind the fireplace .
Oh !
I do so wish I could see THAT bit !
I want so much to know whether they 've a fire in the winter : you never CAN tell , you know , unless our fire smokes , and then smoke comes up in that room too -- but that may be only pretence , just to make it look as if they had a fire .
Well then , the books are something like our books , only the words go the wrong way ; I know that , because I 've held up one of our books to the glass , and then they hold up one in the other room .
` How would you like to live in Looking-glass House , Kitty ?
I wonder if they 'd give you milk in there ?
Perhaps Looking-glass milk is n't good to drink -- But oh , Kitty !
now we come to the passage .
You can just see a little PEEP of the passage in Looking-glass House , if you leave the door of our drawing-room wide open : and it 's very like our passage as far as you can see , only you know it may be quite different on beyond .
Oh , Kitty !
how nice it would be if we could only get through into Looking-glass House !
I 'm sure it 's got , oh !
such beautiful things in it !
Let 's pretend there 's a way of getting through into it , somehow , Kitty .
Let 's pretend the glass has got all soft like gauze , so that we can get through .
Why , it 's turning into a sort of mist now , I declare !
It 'll be easy enough to get through -- ' She was up on the chimney-piece while she said this , though she hardly knew how she had got there .
And certainly the glass WAS beginning to melt away , just like a bright silvery mist .
In another moment Alice was through the glass , and had jumped lightly down into the Looking-glass room .
The very first thing she did was to look whether there was a fire in the fireplace , and she was quite pleased to find that there was a real one , blazing away as brightly as the one she had left behind .
` So I shall be as warm here as I was in the old room , ' thought Alice : ` warmer , in fact , because there 'll be no one here to scold me away from the fire .
Oh , what fun it 'll be , when they see me through the glass in here , and ca n't get at me ! '
Then she began looking about , and noticed that what could be seen from the old room was quite common and uninteresting , but that all the rest was as different as possible .
For instance , the pictures on the wall next the fire seemed to be all alive , and the very clock on the chimney-piece -LRB- you know you can only see the back of it in the Looking-glass -RRB- had got the face of a little old man , and grinned at her .
` They do n't keep this room so tidy as the other , ' Alice thought to herself , as she noticed several of the chessmen down in the hearth among the cinders : but in another moment , with a little ` Oh ! '
of surprise , she was down on her hands and knees watching them .
The chessmen were walking about , two and two !
` Here are the Red King and the Red Queen , ' Alice said -LRB- in a whisper , for fear of frightening them -RRB- , ` and there are the White King and the White Queen sitting on the edge of the shovel -- and here are two castles walking arm in arm -- I do n't think they can hear me , ' she went on , as she put her head closer down , ` and I 'm nearly sure they ca n't see me .
I feel somehow as if I were invisible -- ' Here something began squeaking on the table behind Alice , and made her turn her head just in time to see one of the White Pawns roll over and begin kicking : she watched it with great curiosity to see what would happen next .
` It is the voice of my child ! '
the White Queen cried out as she rushed past the King , so violently that she knocked him over among the cinders .
` My precious Lily !
My imperial kitten ! '
and she began scrambling wildly up the side of the fender .
` Imperial fiddlestick ! '
said the King , rubbing his nose , which had been hurt by the fall .
He had a right to be a LITTLE annoyed with the Queen , for he was covered with ashes from head to foot .
Alice was very anxious to be of use , and , as the poor little Lily was nearly screaming herself into a fit , she hastily picked up the Queen and set her on the table by the side of her noisy little daughter .
The Queen gasped , and sat down : the rapid journey through the air had quite taken away her breath and for a minute or two she could do nothing but hug the little Lily in silence .
As soon as she had recovered her breath a little , she called out to the White King , who was sitting sulkily among the ashes , ` Mind the volcano ! '
` What volcano ? '
said the King , looking up anxiously into the fire , as if he thought that was the most likely place to find one .
` Blew -- me -- up , ' panted the Queen , who was still a little out of breath .
` Mind you come up -- the regular way -- do n't get blown up ! '
Alice watched the White King as he slowly struggled up from bar to bar , till at last she said , ` Why , you 'll be hours and hours getting to the table , at that rate .
I 'd far better help you , had n't I ? '
But the King took no notice of the question : it was quite clear that he could neither hear her nor see her .
So Alice picked him up very gently , and lifted him across more slowly than she had lifted the Queen , that she might n't take his breath away : but , before she put him on the table , she thought she might as well dust him a little , he was so covered with ashes .
She said afterwards that she had never seen in all her life such a face as the King made , when he found himself held in the air by an invisible hand , and being dusted : he was far too much astonished to cry out , but his eyes and his mouth went on getting larger and larger , and rounder and rounder , till her hand shook so with laughing that she nearly let him drop upon the floor .
` Oh !
PLEASE do n't make such faces , my dear ! '
she cried out , quite forgetting that the King could n't hear her .
` You make me laugh so that I can hardly hold you !
And do n't keep your mouth so wide open !
All the ashes will get into it -- there , now I think you 're tidy enough ! '
she added , as she smoothed his hair , and set him upon the table near the Queen .
The King immediately fell flat on his back , and lay perfectly still : and Alice was a little alarmed at what she had done , and went round the room to see if she could find any water to throw over him .
However , she could find nothing but a bottle of ink , and when she got back with it she found he had recovered , and he and the Queen were talking together in a frightened whisper -- so low , that Alice could hardly hear what they said .
The King was saying , ' I assure , you my dear , I turned cold to the very ends of my whiskers ! '
To which the Queen replied , ` You have n't got any whiskers . '
` The horror of that moment , ' the King went on , ' I shall never , NEVER forget ! '
` You will , though , ' the Queen said , ` if you do n't make a memorandum of it . '
Alice looked on with great interest as the King took an enormous memorandum-book out of his pocket , and began writing .
A sudden thought struck her , and she took hold of the end of the pencil , which came some way over his shoulder , and began writing for him .
The poor King looked puzzled and unhappy , and struggled with the pencil for some time without saying anything ; but Alice was too strong for him , and at last he panted out , ` My dear !
I really MUST get a thinner pencil .
I ca n't manage this one a bit ; it writes all manner of things that I do n't intend -- ' ` What manner of things ? '
said the Queen , looking over the book -LRB- in which Alice had put ` THE WHITE KNIGHT IS SLIDING DOWN THE POKER .
HE BALANCES VERY BADLY ' -RRB- ` That 's not a memorandum of YOUR feelings ! '
There was a book lying near Alice on the table , and while she sat watching the White King -LRB- for she was still a little anxious about him , and had the ink all ready to throw over him , in case he fainted again -RRB- , she turned over the leaves , to find some part that she could read , ' -- for it 's all in some language I do n't know , ' she said to herself .
It was like this .
YKCOWREBBAJ sevot yhtils eht dna , gillirb sawT ' ebaw eht ni elbmig dna eryg diD , sevogorob eht erew ysmim llA .
ebargtuo shtar emom eht dnA She puzzled over this for some time , but at last a bright thought struck her .
` Why , it 's a Looking-glass book , of course !
And if I hold it up to a glass , the words will all go the right way again . '
This was the poem that Alice read .
JABBERWOCKY 'T was brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy were the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` Beware the Jabberwock , my son !
The jaws that bite , the claws that catch !
Beware the Jubjub bird , and shun The frumious Bandersnatch ! '
He took his vorpal sword in hand : Long time the manxome foe he sought -- So rested he by the Tumtum tree , And stood awhile in thought .
And as in uffish thought he stood , The Jabberwock , with eyes of flame , Came whiffling through the tulgey wood , And burbled as it came !
One , two !
One , two !
And through and through The vorpal blade went snicker-snack !
He left it dead , and with its head He went galumphing back .
` And hast thou slain the Jabberwock ?
Come to my arms , my beamish boy !
O frabjous day !
Callooh !
Callay ! '
He chortled in his joy .
'T was brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy were the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` It seems very pretty , ' she said when she had finished it , ` but it 's RATHER hard to understand ! '
-LRB- You see she did n't like to confess , even to herself , that she could n't make it out at all . -RRB-
` Somehow it seems to fill my head with ideas -- only I do n't exactly know what they are !
However , SOMEBODY killed SOMETHING : that 's clear , at any rate -- ' ` But oh ! '
thought Alice , suddenly jumping up , ` if I do n't make haste I shall have to go back through the Looking-glass , before I 've seen what the rest of the house is like !
Let 's have a look at the garden first ! '
She was out of the room in a moment , and ran down stairs -- or , at least , it was n't exactly running , but a new invention of hers for getting down stairs quickly and easily , as Alice said to herself .
She just kept the tips of her fingers on the hand-rail , and floated gently down without even touching the stairs with her feet ; then she floated on through the hall , and would have gone straight out at the door in the same way , if she had n't caught hold of the door-post .
She was getting a little giddy with so much floating in the air , and was rather glad to find herself walking again in the natural way .
CHAPTER II .
The Garden of Live Flowers ' I should see the garden far better , ' said Alice to herself , ` if I could get to the top of that hill : and here 's a path that leads straight to it -- at least , no , it does n't do that -- ' -LRB- after going a few yards along the path , and turning several sharp corners -RRB- , ` but I suppose it will at last .
But how curiously it twists !
It 's more like a corkscrew than a path !
Well , THIS turn goes to the hill , I suppose -- no , it does n't !
This goes straight back to the house !
Well then , I 'll try it the other way . '
And so she did : wandering up and down , and trying turn after turn , but always coming back to the house , do what she would .
Indeed , once , when she turned a corner rather more quickly than usual , she ran against it before she could stop herself .
` It 's no use talking about it , ' Alice said , looking up at the house and pretending it was arguing with her .
` I 'm NOT going in again yet .
I know I should have to get through the Looking-glass again -- back into the old room -- and there 'd be an end of all my adventures ! '
So , resolutely turning her back upon the house , she set out once more down the path , determined to keep straight on till she got to the hill .
For a few minutes all went on well , and she was just saying , ' I really SHALL do it this time -- ' when the path gave a sudden twist and shook itself -LRB- as she described it afterwards -RRB- , and the next moment she found herself actually walking in at the door .
` Oh , it 's too bad ! '
she cried . '
I never saw such a house for getting in the way !
Never ! '
However , there was the hill full in sight , so there was nothing to be done but start again .
This time she came upon a large flower-bed , with a border of daisies , and a willow-tree growing in the middle . '
O Tiger-lily , ' said Alice , addressing herself to one that was waving gracefully about in the wind , ' I WISH you could talk ! '
` We CAN talk , ' said the Tiger-lily : ` when there 's anybody worth talking to . '
Alice was so astonished that she could not speak for a minute : it quite seemed to take her breath away .
At length , as the Tiger-lily only went on waving about , she spoke again , in a timid voice -- almost in a whisper .
` And can ALL the flowers talk ? '
` As well as YOU can , ' said the Tiger-lily .
` And a great deal louder . '
` It is n't manners for us to begin , you know , ' said the Rose , ` and I really was wondering when you 'd speak !
Said I to myself , `` Her face has got SOME sense in it , though it 's not a clever one ! ''
Still , you 're the right colour , and that goes a long way . ' '
I do n't care about the colour , ' the Tiger-lily remarked .
` If only her petals curled up a little more , she 'd be all right . '
Alice did n't like being criticised , so she began asking questions .
` Are n't you sometimes frightened at being planted out here , with nobody to take care of you ? '
` There 's the tree in the middle , ' said the Rose : ` what else is it good for ? '
` But what could it do , if any danger came ? '
Alice asked .
` It says `` Bough-wough ! '' '
cried a Daisy : ` that 's why its branches are called boughs ! '
` Did n't you know THAT ? '
cried another Daisy , and here they all began shouting together , till the air seemed quite full of little shrill voices .
` Silence , every one of you ! '
cried the Tiger-lily , waving itself passionately from side to side , and trembling with excitement .
` They know I ca n't get at them ! '
it panted , bending its quivering head towards Alice , ` or they would n't dare to do it ! '
` Never mind ! '
Alice said in a soothing tone , and stooping down to the daisies , who were just beginning again , she whispered , ` If you do n't hold your tongues , I 'll pick you ! '
There was silence in a moment , and several of the pink daisies turned white .
` That 's right ! '
said the Tiger-lily .
` The daisies are worst of all .
When one speaks , they all begin together , and it 's enough to make one wither to hear the way they go on ! '
` How is it you can all talk so nicely ? '
Alice said , hoping to get it into a better temper by a compliment .
` I 've been in many gardens before , but none of the flowers could talk . '
` Put your hand down , and feel the ground , ' said the Tiger-lily .
` Then you 'll know why . '
Alice did so .
` It 's very hard , ' she said , ` but I do n't see what that has to do with it . '
` In most gardens , ' the Tiger-lily said , ` they make the beds too soft -- so that the flowers are always asleep . '
This sounded a very good reason , and Alice was quite pleased to know it . '
I never thought of that before ! '
she said .
` It 's MY opinion that you never think AT ALL , ' the Rose said in a rather severe tone . '
I never saw anybody that looked stupider , ' a Violet said , so suddenly , that Alice quite jumped ; for it had n't spoken before .
` Hold YOUR tongue ! '
cried the Tiger-lily .
` As if YOU ever saw anybody !
You keep your head under the leaves , and snore away there , till you know no more what 's going on in the world , than if you were a bud ! '
` Are there any more people in the garden besides me ? '
Alice said , not choosing to notice the Rose 's last remark .
` There 's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you , ' said the Rose . '
I wonder how you do it -- ' -LRB- ` You 're always wondering , ' said the Tiger-lily -RRB- , ` but she 's more bushy than you are . '
` Is she like me ? '
Alice asked eagerly , for the thought crossed her mind , ` There 's another little girl in the garden , somewhere ! '
` Well , she has the same awkward shape as you , ' the Rose said , ` but she 's redder -- and her petals are shorter , I think . '
` Her petals are done up close , almost like a dahlia , ' the Tiger-lily interrupted : ` not tumbled about anyhow , like yours . '
` But that 's not YOUR fault , ' the Rose added kindly : ` you 're beginning to fade , you know -- and then one ca n't help one 's petals getting a little untidy . '
Alice did n't like this idea at all : so , to change the subject , she asked ` Does she ever come out here ? ' '
I daresay you 'll see her soon , ' said the Rose .
` She 's one of the thorny kind . '
` Where does she wear the thorns ? '
Alice asked with some curiosity .
` Why all round her head , of course , ' the Rose replied . '
I was wondering YOU had n't got some too .
I thought it was the regular rule . '
` She 's coming ! '
cried the Larkspur . '
I hear her footstep , thump , thump , thump , along the gravel-walk ! '
Alice looked round eagerly , and found that it was the Red Queen .
` She 's grown a good deal ! '
was her first remark .
She had indeed : when Alice first found her in the ashes , she had been only three inches high -- and here she was , half a head taller than Alice herself !
` It 's the fresh air that does it , ' said the Rose : ` wonderfully fine air it is , out here . ' '
I think I 'll go and meet her , ' said Alice , for , though the flowers were interesting enough , she felt that it would be far grander to have a talk with a real Queen .
` You ca n't possibly do that , ' said the Rose : ' I should advise you to walk the other way . '
This sounded nonsense to Alice , so she said nothing , but set off at once towards the Red Queen .
To her surprise , she lost sight of her in a moment , and found herself walking in at the front-door again .
A little provoked , she drew back , and after looking everywhere for the queen -LRB- whom she spied out at last , a long way off -RRB- , she thought she would try the plan , this time , of walking in the opposite direction .
It succeeded beautifully .
She had not been walking a minute before she found herself face to face with the Red Queen , and full in sight of the hill she had been so long aiming at .
` Where do you come from ? '
said the Red Queen .
` And where are you going ?
Look up , speak nicely , and do n't twiddle your fingers all the time . '
Alice attended to all these directions , and explained , as well as she could , that she had lost her way . '
I do n't know what you mean by YOUR way , ' said the Queen : ` all the ways about here belong to ME -- but why did you come out here at all ? '
she added in a kinder tone .
` Curtsey while you 're thinking what to say , it saves time . '
Alice wondered a little at this , but she was too much in awe of the Queen to disbelieve it .
` I 'll try it when I go home , ' she thought to herself , ` the next time I 'm a little late for dinner . '
` It 's time for you to answer now , ' the Queen said , looking at her watch : ` open your mouth a LITTLE wider when you speak , and always say `` your Majesty . '' ' '
I only wanted to see what the garden was like , your Majesty -- ' ` That 's right , ' said the Queen , patting her on the head , which Alice did n't like at all , ` though , when you say `` garden , '' -- I 'VE seen gardens , compared with which this would be a wilderness . '
Alice did n't dare to argue the point , but went on : ' -- and I thought I 'd try and find my way to the top of that hill -- ' ` When you say `` hill , '' ' the Queen interrupted , ' I could show you hills , in comparison with which you 'd call that a valley . '
` No , I should n't , ' said Alice , surprised into contradicting her at last : ' a hill CA N'T be a valley , you know .
That would be nonsense -- ' The Red Queen shook her head , ` You may call it `` nonsense '' if you like , ' she said , ` but I 'VE heard nonsense , compared with which that would be as sensible as a dictionary ! '
Alice curtseyed again , as she was afraid from the Queen 's tone that she was a LITTLE offended : and they walked on in silence till they got to the top of the little hill .
For some minutes Alice stood without speaking , looking out in all directions over the country -- and a most curious country it was .
There were a number of tiny little brooks running straight across it from side to side , and the ground between was divided up into squares by a number of little green hedges , that reached from brook to brook . '
I declare it 's marked out just like a large chessboard ! '
Alice said at last .
` There ought to be some men moving about somewhere -- and so there are ! '
She added in a tone of delight , and her heart began to beat quick with excitement as she went on .
` It 's a great huge game of chess that 's being played -- all over the world -- if this IS the world at all , you know .
Oh , what fun it is !
How I WISH I was one of them !
I would n't mind being a Pawn , if only I might join -- though of course I should LIKE to be a Queen , best . '
She glanced rather shyly at the real Queen as she said this , but her companion only smiled pleasantly , and said , ` That 's easily managed .
You can be the White Queen 's Pawn , if you like , as Lily 's too young to play ; and you 're in the Second Square to begin with : when you get to the Eighth Square you 'll be a Queen -- ' Just at this moment , somehow or other , they began to run .
Alice never could quite make out , in thinking it over afterwards , how it was that they began : all she remembers is , that they were running hand in hand , and the Queen went so fast that it was all she could do to keep up with her : and still the Queen kept crying ` Faster !
Faster ! '
but Alice felt she COULD NOT go faster , though she had not breath left to say so .
The most curious part of the thing was , that the trees and the other things round them never changed their places at all : however fast they went , they never seemed to pass anything . '
I wonder if all the things move along with us ? '
thought poor puzzled Alice .
And the Queen seemed to guess her thoughts , for she cried , ` Faster !
Do n't try to talk ! '
Not that Alice had any idea of doing THAT .
She felt as if she would never be able to talk again , she was getting so much out of breath : and still the Queen cried ` Faster !
Faster ! '
and dragged her along .
` Are we nearly there ? '
Alice managed to pant out at last .
` Nearly there ! '
the Queen repeated .
` Why , we passed it ten minutes ago !
Faster ! '
And they ran on for a time in silence , with the wind whistling in Alice 's ears , and almost blowing her hair off her head , she fancied .
` Now !
Now ! '
cried the Queen .
` Faster !
Faster ! '
And they went so fast that at last they seemed to skim through the air , hardly touching the ground with their feet , till suddenly , just as Alice was getting quite exhausted , they stopped , and she found herself sitting on the ground , breathless and giddy .
The Queen propped her up against a tree , and said kindly , ` You may rest a little now . '
Alice looked round her in great surprise .
` Why , I do believe we 've been under this tree the whole time !
Everything 's just as it was ! '
` Of course it is , ' said the Queen , ` what would you have it ? '
` Well , in OUR country , ' said Alice , still panting a little , ` you 'd generally get to somewhere else -- if you ran very fast for a long time , as we 've been doing . ' '
A slow sort of country ! '
said the Queen .
` Now , HERE , you see , it takes all the running YOU can do , to keep in the same place .
If you want to get somewhere else , you must run at least twice as fast as that ! '
` I 'd rather not try , please ! '
said Alice .
` I 'm quite content to stay here -- only I AM so hot and thirsty ! ' '
I know what YOU 'D like ! '
the Queen said good-naturedly , taking a little box out of her pocket .
` Have a biscuit ? '
Alice thought it would not be civil to say ` No , ' though it was n't at all what she wanted .
So she took it , and ate it as well as she could : and it was VERY dry ; and she thought she had never been so nearly choked in all her life .
` While you 're refreshing yourself , ' said the Queen , ` I 'll just take the measurements . '
And she took a ribbon out of her pocket , marked in inches , and began measuring the ground , and sticking little pegs in here and there .
` At the end of two yards , ' she said , putting in a peg to mark the distance , ' I shall give you your directions -- have another biscuit ? '
` No , thank you , ' said Alice : ` one 's QUITE enough ! '
` Thirst quenched , I hope ? '
said the Queen .
Alice did not know what to say to this , but luckily the Queen did not wait for an answer , but went on .
` At the end of THREE yards I shall repeat them -- for fear of your forgetting them .
At the end of FOUR , I shall say good-bye .
And at the end of FIVE , I shall go ! '
She had got all the pegs put in by this time , and Alice looked on with great interest as she returned to the tree , and then began slowly walking down the row .
At the two-yard peg she faced round , and said , ' A pawn goes two squares in its first move , you know .
So you 'll go VERY quickly through the Third Square -- by railway , I should think -- and you 'll find yourself in the Fourth Square in no time .
Well , THAT square belongs to Tweedledum and Tweedledee -- the Fifth is mostly water -- the Sixth belongs to Humpty Dumpty -- But you make no remark ? '
` I -- I did n't know I had to make one -- just then , ' Alice faltered out .
` You SHOULD have said , `` It 's extremely kind of you to tell me all this '' -- however , we 'll suppose it said -- the Seventh Square is all forest -- however , one of the Knights will show you the way -- and in the Eighth Square we shall be Queens together , and it 's all feasting and fun ! '
Alice got up and curtseyed , and sat down again .
At the next peg the Queen turned again , and this time she said , ` Speak in French when you ca n't think of the English for a thing -- turn out your toes as you walk -- and remember who you are ! '
She did not wait for Alice to curtsey this time , but walked on quickly to the next peg , where she turned for a moment to say ` good-bye , ' and then hurried on to the last .
How it happened , Alice never knew , but exactly as she came to the last peg , she was gone .
Whether she vanished into the air , or whether she ran quickly into the wood -LRB- ` and she CAN run very fast ! '
thought Alice -RRB- , there was no way of guessing , but she was gone , and Alice began to remember that she was a Pawn , and that it would soon be time for her to move .
CHAPTER III .
Looking-Glass Insects Of course the first thing to do was to make a grand survey of the country she was going to travel through .
` It 's something very like learning geography , ' thought Alice , as she stood on tiptoe in hopes of being able to see a little further .
` Principal rivers -- there ARE none .
Principal mountains -- I 'm on the only one , but I do n't think it 's got any name .
Principal towns -- why , what ARE those creatures , making honey down there ?
They ca n't be bees -- nobody ever saw bees a mile off , you know -- ' and for some time she stood silent , watching one of them that was bustling about among the flowers , poking its proboscis into them , ` just as if it was a regular bee , ' thought Alice .
However , this was anything but a regular bee : in fact it was an elephant -- as Alice soon found out , though the idea quite took her breath away at first .
` And what enormous flowers they must be ! '
was her next idea .
` Something like cottages with the roofs taken off , and stalks put to them -- and what quantities of honey they must make !
I think I 'll go down and -- no , I wo n't JUST yet , ' she went on , checking herself just as she was beginning to run down the hill , and trying to find some excuse for turning shy so suddenly .
` It 'll never do to go down among them without a good long branch to brush them away -- and what fun it 'll be when they ask me how I like my walk .
I shall say -- `` Oh , I like it well enough -- '' ' -LRB- here came the favourite little toss of the head -RRB- , ' `` only it was so dusty and hot , and the elephants did tease so ! '' ' '
I think I 'll go down the other way , ' she said after a pause : ` and perhaps I may visit the elephants later on .
Besides , I do so want to get into the Third Square ! '
So with this excuse she ran down the hill and jumped over the first of the six little brooks .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Tickets , please ! '
said the Guard , putting his head in at the window .
In a moment everybody was holding out a ticket : they were about the same size as the people , and quite seemed to fill the carriage .
` Now then !
Show your ticket , child ! '
the Guard went on , looking angrily at Alice .
And a great many voices all said together -LRB- ` like the chorus of a song , ' thought Alice -RRB- , ` Do n't keep him waiting , child !
Why , his time is worth a thousand pounds a minute ! '
` I 'm afraid I have n't got one , ' Alice said in a frightened tone : ` there was n't a ticket-office where I came from . '
And again the chorus of voices went on .
` There was n't room for one where she came from .
The land there is worth a thousand pounds an inch ! '
` Do n't make excuses , ' said the Guard : ` you should have bought one from the engine-driver . '
And once more the chorus of voices went on with ` The man that drives the engine .
Why , the smoke alone is worth a thousand pounds a puff ! '
Alice thought to herself , ` Then there 's no use in speaking . '
The voices did n't join in this time , as she had n't spoken , but to her great surprise , they all THOUGHT in chorus -LRB- I hope you understand what THINKING IN CHORUS means -- for I must confess that I do n't -RRB- , ` Better say nothing at all .
Language is worth a thousand pounds a word ! ' '
I shall dream about a thousand pounds tonight , I know I shall ! '
thought Alice .
All this time the Guard was looking at her , first through a telescope , then through a microscope , and then through an opera-glass .
At last he said , ` You 're travelling the wrong way , ' and shut up the window and went away .
` So young a child , ' said the gentleman sitting opposite to her -LRB- he was dressed in white paper -RRB- , ` ought to know which way she 's going , even if she does n't know her own name ! '
A Goat , that was sitting next to the gentleman in white , shut his eyes and said in a loud voice , ` She ought to know her way to the ticket-office , even if she does n't know her alphabet ! '
There was a Beetle sitting next to the Goat -LRB- it was a very queer carriage-full of passengers altogether -RRB- , and , as the rule seemed to be that they should all speak in turn , HE went on with ` She 'll have to go back from here as luggage ! '
Alice could n't see who was sitting beyond the Beetle , but a hoarse voice spoke next .
` Change engines -- ' it said , and was obliged to leave off .
` It sounds like a horse , ' Alice thought to herself .
And an extremely small voice , close to her ear , said , ` You might make a joke on that -- something about `` horse '' and `` hoarse , '' you know . '
Then a very gentle voice in the distance said , ` She must be labelled `` Lass , with care , '' you know -- ' And after that other voices went on -LRB- ` What a number of people there are in the carriage ! '
thought Alice -RRB- , saying , ` She must go by post , as she 's got a head on her -- ' ` She must be sent as a message by the telegraph -- ' ` She must draw the train herself the rest of the way -- ' and so on .
But the gentleman dressed in white paper leaned forwards and whispered in her ear , ` Never mind what they all say , my dear , but take a return-ticket every time the train stops . '
` Indeed I sha n't ! '
Alice said rather impatiently . '
I do n't belong to this railway journey at all -- I was in a wood just now -- and I wish I could get back there . '
` You might make a joke on THAT , ' said the little voice close to her ear : ` something about `` you WOULD if you could , '' you know . '
` Do n't tease so , ' said Alice , looking about in vain to see where the voice came from ; ` if you 're so anxious to have a joke made , why do n't you make one yourself ? '
The little voice sighed deeply : it was VERY unhappy , evidently , and Alice would have said something pitying to comfort it , ` If it would only sigh like other people ! '
she thought .
But this was such a wonderfully small sigh , that she would n't have heard it at all , if it had n't come QUITE close to her ear .
The consequence of this was that it tickled her ear very much , and quite took off her thoughts from the unhappiness of the poor little creature . '
I know you are a friend , ' the little voice went on ; ' a dear friend , and an old friend .
And you wo n't hurt me , though I AM an insect . '
` What kind of insect ? '
Alice inquired a little anxiously .
What she really wanted to know was , whether it could sting or not , but she thought this would n't be quite a civil question to ask .
` What , then you do n't -- ' the little voice began , when it was drowned by a shrill scream from the engine , and everybody jumped up in alarm , Alice among the rest .
The Horse , who had put his head out of the window , quietly drew it in and said , ` It 's only a brook we have to jump over . '
Everybody seemed satisfied with this , though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of trains jumping at all .
` However , it 'll take us into the Fourth Square , that 's some comfort ! '
she said to herself .
In another moment she felt the carriage rise straight up into the air , and in her fright she caught at the thing nearest to her hand , which happened to be the Goat 's beard .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * But the beard seemed to melt away as she touched it , and she found herself sitting quietly under a tree -- while the Gnat -LRB- for that was the insect she had been talking to -RRB- was balancing itself on a twig just over her head , and fanning her with its wings .
It certainly was a VERY large Gnat : ` about the size of a chicken , ' Alice thought .
Still , she could n't feel nervous with it , after they had been talking together so long . '
-- then you do n't like all insects ? '
the Gnat went on , as quietly as if nothing had happened . '
I like them when they can talk , ' Alice said .
` None of them ever talk , where I come from . '
` What sort of insects do you rejoice in , where YOU come from ? '
the Gnat inquired . '
I do n't REJOICE in insects at all , ' Alice explained , ` because I 'm rather afraid of them -- at least the large kinds .
But I can tell you the names of some of them . '
` Of course they answer to their names ? '
the Gnat remarked carelessly . '
I never knew them to do it . '
` What 's the use of their having names , ' the Gnat said , ` if they wo n't answer to them ? '
` No use to THEM , ' said Alice ; ` but it 's useful to the people who name them , I suppose .
If not , why do things have names at all ? ' '
I ca n't say , ' the Gnat replied .
` Further on , in the wood down there , they 've got no names -- however , go on with your list of insects : you 're wasting time . '
` Well , there 's the Horse-fly , ' Alice began , counting off the names on her fingers .
` All right , ' said the Gnat : ` half way up that bush , you 'll see a Rocking-horse-fly , if you look .
It 's made entirely of wood , and gets about by swinging itself from branch to branch . '
` What does it live on ? '
Alice asked , with great curiosity .
` Sap and sawdust , ' said the Gnat .
` Go on with the list . '
Alice looked up at the Rocking-horse-fly with great interest , and made up her mind that it must have been just repainted , it looked so bright and sticky ; and then she went on .
` And there 's the Dragon-fly . '
` Look on the branch above your head , ' said the Gnat , ` and there you 'll find a snap-dragon-fly .
Its body is made of plum-pudding , its wings of holly-leaves , and its head is a raisin burning in brandy . '
` And what does it live on ? '
` Frumenty and mince pie , ' the Gnat replied ; ` and it makes its nest in a Christmas box . '
` And then there 's the Butterfly , ' Alice went on , after she had taken a good look at the insect with its head on fire , and had thought to herself , ' I wonder if that 's the reason insects are so fond of flying into candles -- because they want to turn into Snap-dragon-flies ! '
` Crawling at your feet , ' said the Gnat -LRB- Alice drew her feet back in some alarm -RRB- , ` you may observe a Bread-and-Butterfly .
Its wings are thin slices of Bread-and-butter , its body is a crust , and its head is a lump of sugar . '
` And what does IT live on ? '
` Weak tea with cream in it . '
A new difficulty came into Alice 's head .
` Supposing it could n't find any ? '
she suggested .
` Then it would die , of course . '
` But that must happen very often , ' Alice remarked thoughtfully .
` It always happens , ' said the Gnat .
After this , Alice was silent for a minute or two , pondering .
The Gnat amused itself meanwhile by humming round and round her head : at last it settled again and remarked , ' I suppose you do n't want to lose your name ? '
` No , indeed , ' Alice said , a little anxiously .
` And yet I do n't know , ' the Gnat went on in a careless tone : ` only think how convenient it would be if you could manage to go home without it !
For instance , if the governess wanted to call you to your lessons , she would call out `` come here -- , '' and there she would have to leave off , because there would n't be any name for her to call , and of course you would n't have to go , you know . '
` That would never do , I 'm sure , ' said Alice : ` the governess would never think of excusing me lessons for that .
If she could n't remember my name , she 'd call me `` Miss ! ''
as the servants do . '
` Well , if she said `` Miss , '' and did n't say anything more , ' the Gnat remarked , ` of course you 'd miss your lessons .
That 's a joke .
I wish YOU had made it . '
` Why do you wish I had made it ? '
Alice asked .
` It 's a very bad one . '
But the Gnat only sighed deeply , while two large tears came rolling down its cheeks .
` You should n't make jokes , ' Alice said , ` if it makes you so unhappy . '
Then came another of those melancholy little sighs , and this time the poor Gnat really seemed to have sighed itself away , for , when Alice looked up , there was nothing whatever to be seen on the twig , and , as she was getting quite chilly with sitting still so long , she got up and walked on .
She very soon came to an open field , with a wood on the other side of it : it looked much darker than the last wood , and Alice felt a LITTLE timid about going into it .
However , on second thoughts , she made up her mind to go on : ` for I certainly wo n't go BACK , ' she thought to herself , and this was the only way to the Eighth Square .
` This must be the wood , ' she said thoughtfully to herself , ` where things have no names .
I wonder what 'll become of MY name when I go in ?
I should n't like to lose it at all -- because they 'd have to give me another , and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one .
But then the fun would be trying to find the creature that had got my old name !
That 's just like the advertisements , you know , when people lose dogs -- `` ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF ` DASH : ' HAD ON A BRASS COLLAR '' -- just fancy calling everything you met `` Alice , '' till one of them answered !
Only they would n't answer at all , if they were wise . '
She was rambling on in this way when she reached the wood : it looked very cool and shady .
` Well , at any rate it 's a great comfort , ' she said as she stepped under the trees , ` after being so hot , to get into the -- into WHAT ? '
she went on , rather surprised at not being able to think of the word . '
I mean to get under the -- under the -- under THIS , you know ! '
putting her hand on the trunk of the tree .
` What DOES it call itself , I wonder ?
I do believe it 's got no name -- why , to be sure it has n't ! '
She stood silent for a minute , thinking : then she suddenly began again .
` Then it really HAS happened , after all !
And now , who am I ?
I WILL remember , if I can !
I 'm determined to do it ! '
But being determined did n't help much , and all she could say , after a great deal of puzzling , was , ` L , I KNOW it begins with L ! '
Just then a Fawn came wandering by : it looked at Alice with its large gentle eyes , but did n't seem at all frightened .
` Here then !
Here then ! '
Alice said , as she held out her hand and tried to stroke it ; but it only started back a little , and then stood looking at her again .
` What do you call yourself ? '
the Fawn said at last .
Such a soft sweet voice it had ! '
I wish I knew ! '
thought poor Alice .
She answered , rather sadly , ` Nothing , just now . '
` Think again , ' it said : ` that wo n't do . '
Alice thought , but nothing came of it .
` Please , would you tell me what YOU call yourself ? '
she said timidly . '
I think that might help a little . '
` I 'll tell you , if you 'll move a little further on , ' the Fawn said . '
I ca n't remember here . '
So they walked on together though the wood , Alice with her arms clasped lovingly round the soft neck of the Fawn , till they came out into another open field , and here the Fawn gave a sudden bound into the air , and shook itself free from Alice 's arms .
` I 'm a Fawn ! '
it cried out in a voice of delight , ` and , dear me !
you 're a human child ! '
A sudden look of alarm came into its beautiful brown eyes , and in another moment it had darted away at full speed .
Alice stood looking after it , almost ready to cry with vexation at having lost her dear little fellow-traveller so suddenly .
` However , I know my name now . '
she said , ` that 's SOME comfort .
Alice -- Alice -- I wo n't forget it again .
And now , which of these finger-posts ought I to follow , I wonder ? '
It was not a very difficult question to answer , as there was only one road through the wood , and the two finger-posts both pointed along it .
` I 'll settle it , ' Alice said to herself , ` when the road divides and they point different ways . '
But this did not seem likely to happen .
She went on and on , a long way , but wherever the road divided there were sure to be two finger-posts pointing the same way , one marked ` TO TWEEDLEDUM 'S HOUSE ' and the other ` TO THE HOUSE OF TWEEDLEDEE . ' '
I do believe , ' said Alice at last , ` that they live in the same house !
I wonder I never thought of that before -- But I ca n't stay there long .
I 'll just call and say `` how d'you do ? ''
and ask them the way out of the wood .
If I could only get to the Eighth Square before it gets dark ! '
So she wandered on , talking to herself as she went , till , on turning a sharp corner , she came upon two fat little men , so suddenly that she could not help starting back , but in another moment she recovered herself , feeling sure that they must be .
CHAPTER IV .
Tweedledum And Tweedledee They were standing under a tree , each with an arm round the other 's neck , and Alice knew which was which in a moment , because one of them had ` DUM ' embroidered on his collar , and the other ` DEE . ' '
I suppose they 've each got `` TWEEDLE '' round at the back of the collar , ' she said to herself .
They stood so still that she quite forgot they were alive , and she was just looking round to see if the word `` TWEEDLE '' was written at the back of each collar , when she was startled by a voice coming from the one marked ` DUM . '
` If you think we 're wax-works , ' he said , ` you ought to pay , you know .
Wax-works were n't made to be looked at for nothing , nohow ! '
` Contrariwise , ' added the one marked ` DEE , ' ` if you think we 're alive , you ought to speak . '
` I 'm sure I 'm very sorry , ' was all Alice could say ; for the words of the old song kept ringing through her head like the ticking of a clock , and she could hardly help saying them out loud : -- ` Tweedledum and Tweedledee Agreed to have a battle ; For Tweedledum said Tweedledee Had spoiled his nice new rattle .
Just then flew down a monstrous crow , As black as a tar-barrel ; Which frightened both the heroes so , They quite forgot their quarrel . ' '
I know what you 're thinking about , ' said Tweedledum : ` but it is n't so , nohow . '
` Contrariwise , ' continued Tweedledee , ` if it was so , it might be ; and if it were so , it would be ; but as it is n't , it ai n't .
That 's logic . ' '
I was thinking , ' Alice said very politely , ` which is the best way out of this wood : it 's getting so dark .
Would you tell me , please ? '
But the little men only looked at each other and grinned .
They looked so exactly like a couple of great schoolboys , that Alice could n't help pointing her finger at Tweedledum , and saying ` First Boy ! '
` Nohow ! '
Tweedledum cried out briskly , and shut his mouth up again with a snap .
` Next Boy ! '
said Alice , passing on to Tweedledee , though she felt quite certain he would only shout out ` Contrariwise ! '
and so he did .
` You 've been wrong ! '
cried Tweedledum .
` The first thing in a visit is to say `` How d'ye do ? ''
and shake hands ! '
And here the two brothers gave each other a hug , and then they held out the two hands that were free , to shake hands with her .
Alice did not like shaking hands with either of them first , for fear of hurting the other one 's feelings ; so , as the best way out of the difficulty , she took hold of both hands at once : the next moment they were dancing round in a ring .
This seemed quite natural -LRB- she remembered afterwards -RRB- , and she was not even surprised to hear music playing : it seemed to come from the tree under which they were dancing , and it was done -LRB- as well as she could make it out -RRB- by the branches rubbing one across the other , like fiddles and fiddle-sticks .
` But it certainly WAS funny , ' -LRB- Alice said afterwards , when she was telling her sister the history of all this , -RRB- ` to find myself singing `` HERE WE GO ROUND THE MULBERRY BUSH . ''
I do n't know when I began it , but somehow I felt as if I 'd been singing it a long long time ! '
The other two dancers were fat , and very soon out of breath .
` Four times round is enough for one dance , ' Tweedledum panted out , and they left off dancing as suddenly as they had begun : the music stopped at the same moment .
Then they let go of Alice 's hands , and stood looking at her for a minute : there was a rather awkward pause , as Alice did n't know how to begin a conversation with people she had just been dancing with .
` It would never do to say `` How d'ye do ? ''
NOW , ' she said to herself : ` we seem to have got beyond that , somehow ! ' '
I hope you 're not much tired ? '
she said at last .
` Nohow .
And thank you VERY much for asking , ' said Tweedledum .
` So much obliged ! '
added Tweedledee .
` You like poetry ? '
` Ye-es , pretty well -- SOME poetry , ' Alice said doubtfully .
` Would you tell me which road leads out of the wood ? '
` What shall I repeat to her ? '
said Tweedledee , looking round at Tweedledum with great solemn eyes , and not noticing Alice 's question . '
`` THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER '' is the longest , ' Tweedledum replied , giving his brother an affectionate hug .
Tweedledee began instantly : ` The sun was shining -- ' Here Alice ventured to interrupt him .
` If it 's VERY long , ' she said , as politely as she could , ` would you please tell me first which road -- ' Tweedledee smiled gently , and began again : ` The sun was shining on the sea , Shining with all his might : He did his very best to make The billows smooth and bright -- And this was odd , because it was The middle of the night .
The moon was shining sulkily , Because she thought the sun Had got no business to be there After the day was done -- `` It 's very rude of him , '' she said , `` To come and spoil the fun ! ''
The sea was wet as wet could be , The sands were dry as dry .
You could not see a cloud , because No cloud was in the sky : No birds were flying over head -- There were no birds to fly .
The Walrus and the Carpenter Were walking close at hand ; They wept like anything to see Such quantities of sand : `` If this were only cleared away , '' They said , `` it WOULD be grand ! ''
`` If seven maids with seven mops Swept it for half a year , Do you suppose , '' the Walrus said , `` That they could get it clear ? ''
`` I doubt it , '' said the Carpenter , And shed a bitter tear .
`` O Oysters , come and walk with us ! ''
The Walrus did beseech .
`` A pleasant walk , a pleasant talk , Along the briny beach : We can not do with more than four , To give a hand to each . ''
The eldest Oyster looked at him .
But never a word he said : The eldest Oyster winked his eye , And shook his heavy head -- Meaning to say he did not choose To leave the oyster-bed .
But four young oysters hurried up , All eager for the treat : Their coats were brushed , their faces washed , Their shoes were clean and neat -- And this was odd , because , you know , They had n't any feet .
Four other Oysters followed them , And yet another four ; And thick and fast they came at last , And more , and more , and more -- All hopping through the frothy waves , And scrambling to the shore .
The Walrus and the Carpenter Walked on a mile or so , And then they rested on a rock Conveniently low : And all the little Oysters stood And waited in a row .
`` The time has come , '' the Walrus said , `` To talk of many things : Of shoes -- and ships -- and sealing-wax -- Of cabbages -- and kings -- And why the sea is boiling hot -- And whether pigs have wings . ''
`` But wait a bit , '' the Oysters cried , `` Before we have our chat ; For some of us are out of breath , And all of us are fat ! ''
`` No hurry ! ''
said the Carpenter .
They thanked him much for that .
`` A loaf of bread , '' the Walrus said , `` Is what we chiefly need : Pepper and vinegar besides Are very good indeed -- Now if you 're ready Oysters dear , We can begin to feed . ''
`` But not on us ! ''
the Oysters cried , Turning a little blue , `` After such kindness , that would be A dismal thing to do ! ''
`` The night is fine , '' the Walrus said `` Do you admire the view ?
`` It was so kind of you to come !
And you are very nice ! ''
The Carpenter said nothing but `` Cut us another slice : I wish you were not quite so deaf -- I 've had to ask you twice ! ''
`` It seems a shame , '' the Walrus said , `` To play them such a trick , After we 've brought them out so far , And made them trot so quick ! ''
The Carpenter said nothing but `` The butter 's spread too thick ! ''
`` I weep for you , '' the Walrus said .
`` I deeply sympathize . ''
With sobs and tears he sorted out Those of the largest size .
Holding his pocket handkerchief Before his streaming eyes .
`` O Oysters , '' said the Carpenter .
`` You 've had a pleasant run !
Shall we be trotting home again ? ''
But answer came there none -- And that was scarcely odd , because They 'd eaten every one . ' '
I like the Walrus best , ' said Alice : ` because you see he was a LITTLE sorry for the poor oysters . '
` He ate more than the Carpenter , though , ' said Tweedledee .
` You see he held his handkerchief in front , so that the Carpenter could n't count how many he took : contrariwise . '
` That was mean ! '
Alice said indignantly .
` Then I like the Carpenter best -- if he did n't eat so many as the Walrus . '
` But he ate as many as he could get , ' said Tweedledum .
This was a puzzler .
After a pause , Alice began , ` Well !
They were BOTH very unpleasant characters -- ' Here she checked herself in some alarm , at hearing something that sounded to her like the puffing of a large steam-engine in the wood near them , though she feared it was more likely to be a wild beast .
` Are there any lions or tigers about here ? '
she asked timidly .
` It 's only the Red King snoring , ' said Tweedledee .
` Come and look at him ! '
the brothers cried , and they each took one of Alice 's hands , and led her up to where the King was sleeping .
` Is n't he a LOVELY sight ? '
said Tweedledum .
Alice could n't say honestly that he was .
He had a tall red night-cap on , with a tassel , and he was lying crumpled up into a sort of untidy heap , and snoring loud -- ` fit to snore his head off ! '
as Tweedledum remarked .
` I 'm afraid he 'll catch cold with lying on the damp grass , ' said Alice , who was a very thoughtful little girl .
` He 's dreaming now , ' said Tweedledee : ` and what do you think he 's dreaming about ? '
Alice said ` Nobody can guess that . '
` Why , about YOU ! '
Tweedledee exclaimed , clapping his hands triumphantly .
` And if he left off dreaming about you , where do you suppose you 'd be ? '
` Where I am now , of course , ' said Alice .
` Not you ! '
Tweedledee retorted contemptuously .
` You 'd be nowhere .
Why , you 're only a sort of thing in his dream ! '
` If that there King was to wake , ' added Tweedledum , ` you 'd go out -- bang !
-- just like a candle ! ' '
I should n't ! '
Alice exclaimed indignantly .
` Besides , if I 'M only a sort of thing in his dream , what are YOU , I should like to know ? '
` Ditto ' said Tweedledum .
` Ditto , ditto ' cried Tweedledee .
He shouted this so loud that Alice could n't help saying , ` Hush !
You 'll be waking him , I 'm afraid , if you make so much noise . '
` Well , it no use YOUR talking about waking him , ' said Tweedledum , ` when you 're only one of the things in his dream .
You know very well you 're not real . ' '
I AM real ! '
said Alice and began to cry .
` You wo n't make yourself a bit realler by crying , ' Tweedledee remarked : ` there 's nothing to cry about . '
` If I was n't real , ' Alice said -- half-laughing through her tears , it all seemed so ridiculous -- ' I should n't be able to cry . ' '
I hope you do n't suppose those are real tears ? '
Tweedledum interrupted in a tone of great contempt . '
I know they 're talking nonsense , ' Alice thought to herself : ` and it 's foolish to cry about it . '
So she brushed away her tears , and went on as cheerfully as she could .
` At any rate I 'd better be getting out of the wood , for really it 's coming on very dark .
Do you think it 's going to rain ? '
Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother , and looked up into it .
` No , I do n't think it is , ' he said : ` at least -- not under HERE .
Nohow . '
` But it may rain OUTSIDE ? '
` It may -- if it chooses , ' said Tweedledee : ` we 've no objection .
Contrariwise . '
` Selfish things ! '
thought Alice , and she was just going to say ` Good-night ' and leave them , when Tweedledum sprang out from under the umbrella and seized her by the wrist .
` Do you see THAT ? '
he said , in a voice choking with passion , and his eyes grew large and yellow all in a moment , as he pointed with a trembling finger at a small white thing lying under the tree .
` It 's only a rattle , ' Alice said , after a careful examination of the little white thing .
` Not a rattleSNAKE , you know , ' she added hastily , thinking that he was frightened : ` only an old rattle -- quite old and broken . ' '
I knew it was ! '
cried Tweedledum , beginning to stamp about wildly and tear his hair .
` It 's spoilt , of course ! '
Here he looked at Tweedledee , who immediately sat down on the ground , and tried to hide himself under the umbrella .
Alice laid her hand upon his arm , and said in a soothing tone , ` You need n't be so angry about an old rattle . '
` But it is n't old ! '
Tweedledum cried , in a greater fury than ever .
` It 's new , I tell you -- I bought it yesterday -- my nice new RATTLE ! '
and his voice rose to a perfect scream .
All this time Tweedledee was trying his best to fold up the umbrella , with himself in it : which was such an extraordinary thing to do , that it quite took off Alice 's attention from the angry brother .
But he could n't quite succeed , and it ended in his rolling over , bundled up in the umbrella , with only his head out : and there he lay , opening and shutting his mouth and his large eyes -- ` looking more like a fish than anything else , ' Alice thought .
` Of course you agree to have a battle ? '
Tweedledum said in a calmer tone . '
I suppose so , ' the other sulkily replied , as he crawled out of the umbrella : ` only SHE must help us to dress up , you know . '
So the two brothers went off hand-in-hand into the wood , and returned in a minute with their arms full of things -- such as bolsters , blankets , hearth-rugs , table-cloths , dish-covers and coal-scuttles . '
I hope you 're a good hand at pinning and tying strings ? '
Tweedledum remarked .
` Every one of these things has got to go on , somehow or other . '
Alice said afterwards she had never seen such a fuss made about anything in all her life -- the way those two bustled about -- and the quantity of things they put on -- and the trouble they gave her in tying strings and fastening buttons -- ` Really they 'll be more like bundles of old clothes than anything else , by the time they 're ready ! '
she said to herself , as she arranged a bolster round the neck of Tweedledee , ` to keep his head from being cut off , ' as he said .
` You know , ' he added very gravely , ` it 's one of the most serious things that can possibly happen to one in a battle -- to get one 's head cut off . '
Alice laughed aloud : but she managed to turn it into a cough , for fear of hurting his feelings .
` Do I look very pale ? '
said Tweedledum , coming up to have his helmet tied on .
-LRB- He CALLED it a helmet , though it certainly looked much more like a saucepan . -RRB-
` Well -- yes -- a LITTLE , ' Alice replied gently .
` I 'm very brave generally , ' he went on in a low voice : ` only to-day I happen to have a headache . '
` And I 'VE got a toothache ! '
said Tweedledee , who had overheard the remark .
` I 'm far worse off than you ! '
` Then you 'd better not fight to-day , ' said Alice , thinking it a good opportunity to make peace .
` We MUST have a bit of a fight , but I do n't care about going on long , ' said Tweedledum .
` What 's the time now ? '
Tweedledee looked at his watch , and said ` Half-past four . '
` Let 's fight till six , and then have dinner , ' said Tweedledum .
` Very well , ' the other said , rather sadly : ` and SHE can watch us -- only you 'd better not come VERY close , ' he added : ' I generally hit everything I can see -- when I get really excited . '
` And I hit everything within reach , ' cried Tweedledum , ` whether I can see it or not ! '
Alice laughed .
` You must hit the TREES pretty often , I should think , ' she said .
Tweedledum looked round him with a satisfied smile . '
I do n't suppose , ' he said , ` there 'll be a tree left standing , for ever so far round , by the time we 've finished ! '
` And all about a rattle ! '
said Alice , still hoping to make them a LITTLE ashamed of fighting for such a trifle . '
I should n't have minded it so much , ' said Tweedledum , ` if it had n't been a new one . ' '
I wish the monstrous crow would come ! '
thought Alice .
` There 's only one sword , you know , ' Tweedledum said to his brother : ` but you can have the umbrella -- it 's quite as sharp .
Only we must begin quick .
It 's getting as dark as it can . '
` And darker , ' said Tweedledee .
It was getting dark so suddenly that Alice thought there must be a thunderstorm coming on .
` What a thick black cloud that is ! '
she said .
` And how fast it comes !
Why , I do believe it 's got wings ! '
` It 's the crow ! '
Tweedledum cried out in a shrill voice of alarm : and the two brothers took to their heels and were out of sight in a moment .
Alice ran a little way into the wood , and stopped under a large tree .
` It can never get at me HERE , ' she thought : ` it 's far too large to squeeze itself in among the trees .
But I wish it would n't flap its wings so -- it makes quite a hurricane in the wood -- here 's somebody 's shawl being blown away ! '
CHAPTER V. Wool and Water She caught the shawl as she spoke , and looked about for the owner : in another moment the White Queen came running wildly through the wood , with both arms stretched out wide , as if she were flying , and Alice very civilly went to meet her with the shawl .
` I 'm very glad I happened to be in the way , ' Alice said , as she helped her to put on her shawl again .
The White Queen only looked at her in a helpless frightened sort of way , and kept repeating something in a whisper to herself that sounded like ` bread-and-butter , bread-and-butter , ' and Alice felt that if there was to be any conversation at all , she must manage it herself .
So she began rather timidly : ` Am I addressing the White Queen ? '
` Well , yes , if you call that a-dressing , ' The Queen said .
` It is n't MY notion of the thing , at all . '
Alice thought it would never do to have an argument at the very beginning of their conversation , so she smiled and said , ` If your Majesty will only tell me the right way to begin , I 'll do it as well as I can . '
` But I do n't want it done at all ! '
groaned the poor Queen .
` I 've been a-dressing myself for the last two hours . '
It would have been all the better , as it seemed to Alice , if she had got some one else to dress her , she was so dreadfully untidy .
` Every single thing 's crooked , ' Alice thought to herself , ` and she 's all over pins !
-- may I put your shawl straight for you ? '
she added aloud . '
I do n't know what 's the matter with it ! '
the Queen said , in a melancholy voice .
` It 's out of temper , I think .
I 've pinned it here , and I 've pinned it there , but there 's no pleasing it ! '
` It CA N'T go straight , you know , if you pin it all on one side , ' Alice said , as she gently put it right for her ; ` and , dear me , what a state your hair is in ! '
` The brush has got entangled in it ! '
the Queen said with a sigh .
` And I lost the comb yesterday . '
Alice carefully released the brush , and did her best to get the hair into order .
` Come , you look rather better now ! '
she said , after altering most of the pins .
` But really you should have a lady 's maid ! '
` I 'm sure I 'll take you with pleasure ! '
the Queen said .
` Twopence a week , and jam every other day . '
Alice could n't help laughing , as she said , ' I do n't want you to hire ME -- and I do n't care for jam . '
` It 's very good jam , ' said the Queen .
` Well , I do n't want any TO-DAY , at any rate . '
` You could n't have it if you DID want it , ' the Queen said .
` The rule is , jam to-morrow and jam yesterday -- but never jam to-day . '
` It MUST come sometimes to `` jam to-day , '' ' Alice objected .
` No , it ca n't , ' said the Queen .
` It 's jam every OTHER day : to-day is n't any OTHER day , you know . ' '
I do n't understand you , ' said Alice .
` It 's dreadfully confusing ! '
` That 's the effect of living backwards , ' the Queen said kindly : ` it always makes one a little giddy at first -- ' ` Living backwards ! '
Alice repeated in great astonishment . '
I never heard of such a thing ! ' '
-- but there 's one great advantage in it , that one 's memory works both ways . '
` I 'm sure MINE only works one way , ' Alice remarked . '
I ca n't remember things before they happen . '
` It 's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards , ' the Queen remarked .
` What sort of things do YOU remember best ? '
Alice ventured to ask .
` Oh , things that happened the week after next , ' the Queen replied in a careless tone .
` For instance , now , ' she went on , sticking a large piece of plaster -LSB- band-aid -RSB- on her finger as she spoke , ` there 's the King 's Messenger .
He 's in prison now , being punished : and the trial does n't even begin till next Wednesday : and of course the crime comes last of all . '
` Suppose he never commits the crime ? '
said Alice .
` That would be all the better , would n't it ? '
the Queen said , as she bound the plaster round her finger with a bit of ribbon .
Alice felt there was no denying THAT .
` Of course it would be all the better , ' she said : ` but it would n't be all the better his being punished . '
` You 're wrong THERE , at any rate , ' said the Queen : ` were YOU ever punished ? '
` Only for faults , ' said Alice .
` And you were all the better for it , I know ! '
the Queen said triumphantly .
` Yes , but then I HAD done the things I was punished for , ' said Alice : ` that makes all the difference . '
` But if you HAD N'T done them , ' the Queen said , ` that would have been better still ; better , and better , and better ! '
Her voice went higher with each ` better , ' till it got quite to a squeak at last .
Alice was just beginning to say ` There 's a mistake somewhere -- , ' when the Queen began screaming so loud that she had to leave the sentence unfinished .
` Oh , oh , oh ! '
shouted the Queen , shaking her hand about as if she wanted to shake it off .
` My finger 's bleeding !
Oh , oh , oh , oh ! '
Her screams were so exactly like the whistle of a steam-engine , that Alice had to hold both her hands over her ears .
` What IS the matter ? '
she said , as soon as there was a chance of making herself heard .
` Have you pricked your finger ? ' '
I have n't pricked it YET , ' the Queen said , ` but I soon shall -- oh , oh , oh ! '
` When do you expect to do it ? '
Alice asked , feeling very much inclined to laugh .
` When I fasten my shawl again , ' the poor Queen groaned out : ` the brooch will come undone directly .
Oh , oh ! '
As she said the words the brooch flew open , and the Queen clutched wildly at it , and tried to clasp it again .
` Take care ! '
cried Alice .
` You 're holding it all crooked ! '
And she caught at the brooch ; but it was too late : the pin had slipped , and the Queen had pricked her finger .
` That accounts for the bleeding , you see , ' she said to Alice with a smile .
` Now you understand the way things happen here . '
` But why do n't you scream now ? '
Alice asked , holding her hands ready to put over her ears again .
` Why , I 've done all the screaming already , ' said the Queen .
` What would be the good of having it all over again ? '
By this time it was getting light .
` The crow must have flown away , I think , ' said Alice : ` I 'm so glad it 's gone .
I thought it was the night coming on . ' '
I wish I could manage to be glad ! '
the Queen said .
` Only I never can remember the rule .
You must be very happy , living in this wood , and being glad whenever you like ! '
` Only it is so VERY lonely here ! '
Alice said in a melancholy voice ; and at the thought of her loneliness two large tears came rolling down her cheeks .
` Oh , do n't go on like that ! '
cried the poor Queen , wringing her hands in despair .
` Consider what a great girl you are .
Consider what a long way you 've come to-day .
Consider what o'clock it is .
Consider anything , only do n't cry ! '
Alice could not help laughing at this , even in the midst of her tears .
` Can YOU keep from crying by considering things ? '
she asked .
` That 's the way it 's done , ' the Queen said with great decision : ` nobody can do two things at once , you know .
Let 's consider your age to begin with -- how old are you ? '
` I 'm seven and a half exactly . '
` You need n't say `` exactually , '' ' the Queen remarked : ' I can believe it without that .
Now I 'll give YOU something to believe .
I 'm just one hundred and one , five months and a day . ' '
I ca n't believe THAT ! '
said Alice .
` Ca n't you ? '
the Queen said in a pitying tone .
` Try again : draw a long breath , and shut your eyes . '
Alice laughed .
` There 's no use trying , ' she said : ` one CA N'T believe impossible things . ' '
I daresay you have n't had much practice , ' said the Queen .
` When I was your age , I always did it for half-an-hour a day .
Why , sometimes I 've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast .
There goes the shawl again ! '
The brooch had come undone as she spoke , and a sudden gust of wind blew the Queen 's shawl across a little brook .
The Queen spread out her arms again , and went flying after it , and this time she succeeded in catching it for herself .
` I 've got it ! '
she cried in a triumphant tone .
` Now you shall see me pin it on again , all by myself ! '
` Then I hope your finger is better now ? '
Alice said very politely , as she crossed the little brook after the Queen .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Oh , much better ! '
cried the Queen , her voice rising to a squeak as she went on .
` Much be-etter !
Be-etter !
Be-e-e-etter !
Be-e-ehh ! '
The last word ended in a long bleat , so like a sheep that Alice quite started .
She looked at the Queen , who seemed to have suddenly wrapped herself up in wool .
Alice rubbed her eyes , and looked again .
She could n't make out what had happened at all .
Was she in a shop ?
And was that really -- was it really a SHEEP that was sitting on the other side of the counter ?
Rub as she could , she could make nothing more of it : she was in a little dark shop , leaning with her elbows on the counter , and opposite to her was an old Sheep , sitting in an arm-chair knitting , and every now and then leaving off to look at her through a great pair of spectacles .
` What is it you want to buy ? '
the Sheep said at last , looking up for a moment from her knitting . '
I do n't QUITE know yet , ' Alice said , very gently . '
I should like to look all round me first , if I might . '
` You may look in front of you , and on both sides , if you like , ' said the Sheep : ` but you ca n't look ALL round you -- unless you 've got eyes at the back of your head . '
But these , as it happened , Alice had NOT got : so she contented herself with turning round , looking at the shelves as she came to them .
The shop seemed to be full of all manner of curious things -- but the oddest part of it all was , that whenever she looked hard at any shelf , to make out exactly what it had on it , that particular shelf was always quite empty : though the others round it were crowded as full as they could hold .
` Things flow about so here ! '
she said at last in a plaintive tone , after she had spent a minute or so in vainly pursuing a large bright thing , that looked sometimes like a doll and sometimes like a work-box , and was always in the shelf next above the one she was looking at .
` And this one is the most provoking of all -- but I 'll tell you what -- ' she added , as a sudden thought struck her , ` I 'll follow it up to the very top shelf of all .
It 'll puzzle it to go through the ceiling , I expect ! '
But even this plan failed : the ` thing ' went through the ceiling as quietly as possible , as if it were quite used to it .
` Are you a child or a teetotum ? '
the Sheep said , as she took up another pair of needles .
` You 'll make me giddy soon , if you go on turning round like that . '
She was now working with fourteen pairs at once , and Alice could n't help looking at her in great astonishment .
` How CAN she knit with so many ? '
the puzzled child thought to herself .
` She gets more and more like a porcupine every minute ! '
` Can you row ? '
the Sheep asked , handing her a pair of knitting-needles as she spoke .
` Yes , a little -- but not on land -- and not with needles -- ' Alice was beginning to say , when suddenly the needles turned into oars in her hands , and she found they were in a little boat , gliding along between banks : so there was nothing for it but to do her best .
` Feather ! '
cried the Sheep , as she took up another pair of needles .
This did n't sound like a remark that needed any answer , so Alice said nothing , but pulled away .
There was something very queer about the water , she thought , as every now and then the oars got fast in it , and would hardly come out again .
` Feather !
Feather ! '
the Sheep cried again , taking more needles .
` You 'll be catching a crab directly . ' '
A dear little crab ! '
thought Alice . '
I should like that . '
` Did n't you hear me say `` Feather '' ? '
the Sheep cried angrily , taking up quite a bunch of needles .
` Indeed I did , ' said Alice : ` you 've said it very often -- and very loud .
Please , where ARE the crabs ? '
` In the water , of course ! '
said the Sheep , sticking some of the needles into her hair , as her hands were full .
` Feather , I say ! '
` WHY do you say `` feather '' so often ? '
Alice asked at last , rather vexed .
` I 'm not a bird ! '
` You are , ' said the Sheep : ` you 're a little goose . '
This offended Alice a little , so there was no more conversation for a minute or two , while the boat glided gently on , sometimes among beds of weeds -LRB- which made the oars stick fast in the water , worse then ever -RRB- , and sometimes under trees , but always with the same tall river-banks frowning over their heads .
` Oh , please !
There are some scented rushes ! '
Alice cried in a sudden transport of delight .
` There really are -- and SUCH beauties ! '
` You need n't say `` please '' to ME about 'em , ' the Sheep said , without looking up from her knitting : ' I did n't put 'em there , and I 'm not going to take 'em away . '
` No , but I meant -- please , may we wait and pick some ? '
Alice pleaded .
` If you do n't mind stopping the boat for a minute . '
` How am I to stop it ? '
said the Sheep .
` If you leave off rowing , it 'll stop of itself . '
So the boat was left to drift down the stream as it would , till it glided gently in among the waving rushes .
And then the little sleeves were carefully rolled up , and the little arms were plunged in elbow-deep to get the rushes a good long way down before breaking them off -- and for a while Alice forgot all about the Sheep and the knitting , as she bent over the side of the boat , with just the ends of her tangled hair dipping into the water -- while with bright eager eyes she caught at one bunch after another of the darling scented rushes . '
I only hope the boat wo n't tipple over ! '
she said to herself .
` Oh , WHAT a lovely one !
Only I could n't quite reach it . '
` And it certainly DID seem a little provoking -LRB- ` almost as if it happened on purpose , ' she thought -RRB- that , though she managed to pick plenty of beautiful rushes as the boat glided by , there was always a more lovely one that she could n't reach .
` The prettiest are always further ! '
she said at last , with a sigh at the obstinacy of the rushes in growing so far off , as , with flushed cheeks and dripping hair and hands , she scrambled back into her place , and began to arrange her new-found treasures .
What mattered it to her just then that the rushes had begun to fade , and to lose all their scent and beauty , from the very moment that she picked them ?
Even real scented rushes , you know , last only a very little while -- and these , being dream-rushes , melted away almost like snow , as they lay in heaps at her feet -- but Alice hardly noticed this , there were so many other curious things to think about .
They had n't gone much farther before the blade of one of the oars got fast in the water and WOULD N'T come out again -LRB- so Alice explained it afterwards -RRB- , and the consequence was that the handle of it caught her under the chin , and , in spite of a series of little shrieks of ` Oh , oh , oh ! '
from poor Alice , it swept her straight off the seat , and down among the heap of rushes .
However , she was n't hurt , and was soon up again : the Sheep went on with her knitting all the while , just as if nothing had happened .
` That was a nice crab you caught ! '
she remarked , as Alice got back into her place , very much relieved to find herself still in the boat .
` Was it ?
I did n't see it , ' Said Alice , peeping cautiously over the side of the boat into the dark water . '
I wish it had n't let go -- I should so like to see a little crab to take home with me ! '
But the Sheep only laughed scornfully , and went on with her knitting .
` Are there many crabs here ? '
said Alice .
` Crabs , and all sorts of things , ' said the Sheep : ` plenty of choice , only make up your mind .
Now , what DO you want to buy ? '
` To buy ! '
Alice echoed in a tone that was half astonished and half frightened -- for the oars , and the boat , and the river , had vanished all in a moment , and she was back again in the little dark shop . '
I should like to buy an egg , please , ' she said timidly .
` How do you sell them ? '
` Fivepence farthing for one -- Twopence for two , ' the Sheep replied .
` Then two are cheaper than one ? '
Alice said in a surprised tone , taking out her purse .
` Only you MUST eat them both , if you buy two , ' said the Sheep .
` Then I 'll have ONE , please , ' said Alice , as she put the money down on the counter .
For she thought to herself , ` They might n't be at all nice , you know . '
The Sheep took the money , and put it away in a box : then she said ' I never put things into people 's hands -- that would never do -- you must get it for yourself . '
And so saying , she went off to the other end of the shop , and set the egg upright on a shelf . '
I wonder WHY it would n't do ? '
thought Alice , as she groped her way among the tables and chairs , for the shop was very dark towards the end .
` The egg seems to get further away the more I walk towards it .
Let me see , is this a chair ?
Why , it 's got branches , I declare !
How very odd to find trees growing here !
And actually here 's a little brook !
Well , this is the very queerest shop I ever saw ! '
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * So she went on , wondering more and more at every step , as everything turned into a tree the moment she came up to it , and she quite expected the egg to do the same .
CHAPTER VI .
Humpty Dumpty However , the egg only got larger and larger , and more and more human : when she had come within a few yards of it , she saw that it had eyes and a nose and mouth ; and when she had come close to it , she saw clearly that it was HUMPTY DUMPTY himself .
` It ca n't be anybody else ! '
she said to herself .
` I 'm as certain of it , as if his name were written all over his face . '
It might have been written a hundred times , easily , on that enormous face .
Humpty Dumpty was sitting with his legs crossed , like a Turk , on the top of a high wall -- such a narrow one that Alice quite wondered how he could keep his balance -- and , as his eyes were steadily fixed in the opposite direction , and he did n't take the least notice of her , she thought he must be a stuffed figure after all .
` And how exactly like an egg he is ! '
she said aloud , standing with her hands ready to catch him , for she was every moment expecting him to fall .
` It 's VERY provoking , ' Humpty Dumpty said after a long silence , looking away from Alice as he spoke , ` to be called an egg -- VERY ! ' '
I said you LOOKED like an egg , Sir , ' Alice gently explained .
` And some eggs are very pretty , you know ' she added , hoping to turn her remark into a sort of a compliment .
` Some people , ' said Humpty Dumpty , looking away from her as usual , ` have no more sense than a baby ! '
Alice did n't know what to say to this : it was n't at all like conversation , she thought , as he never said anything to HER ; in fact , his last remark was evidently addressed to a tree -- so she stood and softly repeated to herself : -- ` Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall : Humpty Dumpty had a great fall .
All the King 's horses and all the King 's men Could n't put Humpty Dumpty in his place again . '
` That last line is much too long for the poetry , ' she added , almost out loud , forgetting that Humpty Dumpty would hear her .
` Do n't stand there chattering to yourself like that , ' Humpty Dumpty said , looking at her for the first time , ` but tell me your name and your business . '
` My NAME is Alice , but -- ' ` It 's a stupid enough name ! '
Humpty Dumpty interrupted impatiently .
` What does it mean ? '
` MUST a name mean something ? '
Alice asked doubtfully .
` Of course it must , ' Humpty Dumpty said with a short laugh : ` MY name means the shape I am -- and a good handsome shape it is , too .
With a name like yours , you might be any shape , almost . '
` Why do you sit out here all alone ? '
said Alice , not wishing to begin an argument .
` Why , because there 's nobody with me ! '
cried Humpty Dumpty .
` Did you think I did n't know the answer to THAT ?
Ask another . '
` Do n't you think you 'd be safer down on the ground ? '
Alice went on , not with any idea of making another riddle , but simply in her good-natured anxiety for the queer creature .
` That wall is so VERY narrow ! '
` What tremendously easy riddles you ask ! '
Humpty Dumpty growled out .
` Of course I do n't think so !
Why , if ever I DID fall off -- which there 's no chance of -- but IF I did -- ' Here he pursed up his lips and looked so solemn and grand that Alice could hardly help laughing .
` IF I did fall , ' he went on , ` THE KING HAS PROMISED ME -- ah , you may turn pale , if you like !
You did n't think I was going to say that , did you ?
THE KING HAS PROMISED ME -- WITH HIS VERY OWN MOUTH -- to -- to -- ' ` To send all his horses and all his men , ' Alice interrupted , rather unwisely .
` Now I declare that 's too bad ! '
Humpty Dumpty cried , breaking into a sudden passion .
` You 've been listening at doors -- and behind trees -- and down chimneys -- or you could n't have known it ! ' '
I have n't , indeed ! '
Alice said very gently .
` It 's in a book . '
` Ah , well !
They may write such things in a BOOK , ' Humpty Dumpty said in a calmer tone .
` That 's what you call a History of England , that is .
Now , take a good look at me !
I 'm one that has spoken to a King , I am : mayhap you 'll never see such another : and to show you I 'm not proud , you may shake hands with me ! '
And he grinned almost from ear to ear , as he leant forwards -LRB- and as nearly as possible fell off the wall in doing so -RRB- and offered Alice his hand .
She watched him a little anxiously as she took it .
` If he smiled much more , the ends of his mouth might meet behind , ' she thought : ` and then I do n't know what would happen to his head !
I 'm afraid it would come off ! '
` Yes , all his horses and all his men , ' Humpty Dumpty went on .
` They 'd pick me up again in a minute , THEY would !
However , this conversation is going on a little too fast : let 's go back to the last remark but one . '
` I 'm afraid I ca n't quite remember it , ' Alice said very politely .
` In that case we start fresh , ' said Humpty Dumpty , ` and it 's my turn to choose a subject -- ' -LRB- ` He talks about it just as if it was a game ! '
thought Alice . -RRB-
` So here 's a question for you .
How old did you say you were ? '
Alice made a short calculation , and said ` Seven years and six months . '
` Wrong ! '
Humpty Dumpty exclaimed triumphantly .
` You never said a word like it ! ' '
I though you meant `` How old ARE you ? '' '
Alice explained .
` If I 'd meant that , I 'd have said it , ' said Humpty Dumpty .
Alice did n't want to begin another argument , so she said nothing .
` Seven years and six months ! '
Humpty Dumpty repeated thoughtfully .
` An uncomfortable sort of age .
Now if you 'd asked MY advice , I 'd have said `` Leave off at seven '' -- but it 's too late now . ' '
I never ask advice about growing , ' Alice said indignantly .
` Too proud ? '
the other inquired .
Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion . '
I mean , ' she said , ` that one ca n't help growing older . '
` ONE ca n't , perhaps , ' said Humpty Dumpty , ` but TWO can .
With proper assistance , you might have left off at seven . '
` What a beautiful belt you 've got on ! '
Alice suddenly remarked .
-LRB- They had had quite enough of the subject of age , she thought : and if they really were to take turns in choosing subjects , it was her turn now . -RRB-
` At least , ' she corrected herself on second thoughts , ' a beautiful cravat , I should have said -- no , a belt , I mean -- I beg your pardon ! '
she added in dismay , for Humpty Dumpty looked thoroughly offended , and she began to wish she had n't chosen that subject .
` If I only knew , ' she thought to herself , ` which was neck and which was waist ! '
Evidently Humpty Dumpty was very angry , though he said nothing for a minute or two .
When he DID speak again , it was in a deep growl .
` It is a -- MOST -- PROVOKING -- thing , ' he said at last , ` when a person does n't know a cravat from a belt ! ' '
I know it 's very ignorant of me , ' Alice said , in so humble a tone that Humpty Dumpty relented .
` It 's a cravat , child , and a beautiful one , as you say .
It 's a present from the White King and Queen .
There now ! '
` Is it really ? '
said Alice , quite pleased to find that she HAD chosen a good subject , after all .
` They gave it me , ' Humpty Dumpty continued thoughtfully , as he crossed one knee over the other and clasped his hands round it , ` they gave it me -- for an un-birthday present . ' '
I beg your pardon ? '
Alice said with a puzzled air .
` I 'm not offended , ' said Humpty Dumpty . '
I mean , what IS an un-birthday present ? ' '
A present given when it is n't your birthday , of course . '
Alice considered a little . '
I like birthday presents best , ' she said at last .
` You do n't know what you 're talking about ! '
cried Humpty Dumpty .
` How many days are there in a year ? '
` Three hundred and sixty-five , ' said Alice .
` And how many birthdays have you ? '
` One . '
` And if you take one from three hundred and sixty-five , what remains ? '
` Three hundred and sixty-four , of course . '
Humpty Dumpty looked doubtful .
` I 'd rather see that done on paper , ' he said .
Alice could n't help smiling as she took out her memorandum-book , and worked the sum for him : 365 1 ____ 364 ___ Humpty Dumpty took the book , and looked at it carefully .
` That seems to be done right -- ' he began .
` You 're holding it upside down ! '
Alice interrupted .
` To be sure I was ! '
Humpty Dumpty said gaily , as she turned it round for him . '
I thought it looked a little queer .
As I was saying , that SEEMS to be done right -- though I have n't time to look it over thoroughly just now -- and that shows that there are three hundred and sixty-four days when you might get un-birthday presents -- ' ` Certainly , ' said Alice .
` And only ONE for birthday presents , you know .
There 's glory for you ! ' '
I do n't know what you mean by `` glory , '' ' Alice said .
Humpty Dumpty smiled contemptuously .
` Of course you do n't -- till I tell you .
I meant `` there 's a nice knock-down argument for you ! '' '
` But `` glory '' does n't mean `` a nice knock-down argument , '' ' Alice objected .
` When I use a word , ' Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone , ` it means just what I choose it to mean -- neither more nor less . '
` The question is , ' said Alice , ` whether you CAN make words mean so many different things . '
` The question is , ' said Humpty Dumpty , ` which is to be master -- that 's all . '
Alice was too much puzzled to say anything , so after a minute Humpty Dumpty began again .
` They 've a temper , some of them -- particularly verbs , they 're the proudest -- adjectives you can do anything with , but not verbs -- however , I can manage the whole lot of them !
Impenetrability !
That 's what I say ! '
` Would you tell me , please , ' said Alice ` what that means ? '
` Now you talk like a reasonable child , ' said Humpty Dumpty , looking very much pleased . '
I meant by `` impenetrability '' that we 've had enough of that subject , and it would be just as well if you 'd mention what you mean to do next , as I suppose you do n't mean to stop here all the rest of your life . '
` That 's a great deal to make one word mean , ' Alice said in a thoughtful tone .
` When I make a word do a lot of work like that , ' said Humpty Dumpty , ' I always pay it extra . '
` Oh ! '
said Alice .
She was too much puzzled to make any other remark .
` Ah , you should see 'em come round me of a Saturday night , ' Humpty Dumpty went on , wagging his head gravely from side to side : ` for to get their wages , you know . '
-LRB- Alice did n't venture to ask what he paid them with ; and so you see I ca n't tell YOU . -RRB-
` You seem very clever at explaining words , Sir , ' said Alice .
` Would you kindly tell me the meaning of the poem called `` Jabberwocky '' ? '
` Let 's hear it , ' said Humpty Dumpty . '
I can explain all the poems that were ever invented -- and a good many that have n't been invented just yet . '
This sounded very hopeful , so Alice repeated the first verse : 'T was brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy were the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` That 's enough to begin with , ' Humpty Dumpty interrupted : ` there are plenty of hard words there .
`` BRILLIG '' means four o'clock in the afternoon -- the time when you begin BROILING things for dinner . '
` That 'll do very well , ' said Alice : ` and `` SLITHY '' ? '
` Well , `` SLITHY '' means `` lithe and slimy . ''
`` Lithe '' is the same as `` active . ''
You see it 's like a portmanteau -- there are two meanings packed up into one word . ' '
I see it now , ' Alice remarked thoughtfully : ` and what are `` TOVES '' ? '
` Well , `` TOVES '' are something like badgers -- they 're something like lizards -- and they 're something like corkscrews . '
` They must be very curious looking creatures . '
` They are that , ' said Humpty Dumpty : ` also they make their nests under sun-dials -- also they live on cheese . '
` And what 's the `` GYRE '' and to `` GIMBLE '' ? '
` To `` GYRE '' is to go round and round like a gyroscope .
To `` GIMBLE '' is to make holes like a gimlet . '
` And `` THE WABE '' is the grass-plot round a sun-dial , I suppose ? '
said Alice , surprised at her own ingenuity .
` Of course it is .
It 's called `` WABE , '' you know , because it goes a long way before it , and a long way behind it -- ' ` And a long way beyond it on each side , ' Alice added .
` Exactly so .
Well , then , `` MIMSY '' is `` flimsy and miserable '' -LRB- there 's another portmanteau for you -RRB- .
And a `` BOROGOVE '' is a thin shabby-looking bird with its feathers sticking out all round -- something like a live mop . '
` And then `` MOME RATHS '' ? '
said Alice .
` I 'm afraid I 'm giving you a great deal of trouble . '
` Well , a `` RATH '' is a sort of green pig : but `` MOME '' I 'm not certain about .
I think it 's short for `` from home '' -- meaning that they 'd lost their way , you know . '
` And what does `` OUTGRABE '' mean ? '
` Well , `` OUTGRABING '' is something between bellowing and whistling , with a kind of sneeze in the middle : however , you 'll hear it done , maybe -- down in the wood yonder -- and when you 've once heard it you 'll be QUITE content .
Who 's been repeating all that hard stuff to you ? ' '
I read it in a book , ' said Alice .
` But I had some poetry repeated to me , much easier than that , by -- Tweedledee , I think it was . '
` As to poetry , you know , ' said Humpty Dumpty , stretching out one of his great hands , ' I can repeat poetry as well as other folk , if it comes to that -- ' ` Oh , it need n't come to that ! '
Alice hastily said , hoping to keep him from beginning .
` The piece I 'm going to repeat , ' he went on without noticing her remark , ` was written entirely for your amusement . '
Alice felt that in that case she really OUGHT to listen to it , so she sat down , and said ` Thank you ' rather sadly .
` In winter , when the fields are white , I sing this song for your delight -- only I do n't sing it , ' he added , as an explanation . '
I see you do n't , ' said Alice .
` If you can SEE whether I 'm singing or not , you 've sharper eyes than most . '
Humpty Dumpty remarked severely .
Alice was silent .
` In spring , when woods are getting green , I 'll try and tell you what I mean . '
` Thank you very much , ' said Alice .
` In summer , when the days are long , Perhaps you 'll understand the song : In autumn , when the leaves are brown , Take pen and ink , and write it down . ' '
I will , if I can remember it so long , ' said Alice .
` You need n't go on making remarks like that , ' Humpty Dumpty said : ` they 're not sensible , and they put me out . ' '
I sent a message to the fish : I told them `` This is what I wish . ''
The little fishes of the sea , They sent an answer back to me .
The little fishes ' answer was `` We can not do it , Sir , because -- '' ' ` I 'm afraid I do n't quite understand , ' said Alice .
` It gets easier further on , ' Humpty Dumpty replied . '
I sent to them again to say `` It will be better to obey . ''
The fishes answered with a grin , `` Why , what a temper you are in ! ''
I told them once , I told them twice : They would not listen to advice .
I took a kettle large and new , Fit for the deed I had to do .
My heart went hop , my heart went thump ; I filled the kettle at the pump .
Then some one came to me and said , `` The little fishes are in bed . ''
I said to him , I said it plain , `` Then you must wake them up again . ''
I said it very loud and clear ; I went and shouted in his ear . '
Humpty Dumpty raised his voice almost to a scream as he repeated this verse , and Alice thought with a shudder , ' I would n't have been the messenger for ANYTHING ! '
` But he was very stiff and proud ; He said `` You need n't shout so loud ! ''
And he was very proud and stiff ; He said `` I 'd go and wake them , if -- '' I took a corkscrew from the shelf : I went to wake them up myself .
And when I found the door was locked , I pulled and pushed and kicked and knocked .
And when I found the door was shut , I tried to turn the handle , but -- ' There was a long pause .
` Is that all ? '
Alice timidly asked .
` That 's all , ' said Humpty Dumpty .
` Good-bye . '
This was rather sudden , Alice thought : but , after such a VERY strong hint that she ought to be going , she felt that it would hardly be civil to stay .
So she got up , and held out her hand .
` Good-bye , till we meet again ! '
she said as cheerfully as she could . '
I should n't know you again if we DID meet , ' Humpty Dumpty replied in a discontented tone , giving her one of his fingers to shake ; ` you 're so exactly like other people . '
` The face is what one goes by , generally , ' Alice remarked in a thoughtful tone .
` That 's just what I complain of , ' said Humpty Dumpty .
` Your face is the same as everybody has -- the two eyes , so -- ' -LRB- marking their places in the air with this thumb -RRB- ` nose in the middle , mouth under .
It 's always the same .
Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose , for instance -- or the mouth at the top -- that would be SOME help . '
` It would n't look nice , ' Alice objected .
But Humpty Dumpty only shut his eyes and said ` Wait till you 've tried . '
Alice waited a minute to see if he would speak again , but as he never opened his eyes or took any further notice of her , she said ` Good-bye ! '
once more , and , getting no answer to this , she quietly walked away : but she could n't help saying to herself as she went , ` Of all the unsatisfactory -- ' -LRB- she repeated this aloud , as it was a great comfort to have such a long word to say -RRB- ` of all the unsatisfactory people I EVER met -- ' She never finished the sentence , for at this moment a heavy crash shook the forest from end to end .
CHAPTER VII .
The Lion and the Unicorn The next moment soldiers came running through the wood , at first in twos and threes , then ten or twenty together , and at last in such crowds that they seemed to fill the whole forest .
Alice got behind a tree , for fear of being run over , and watched them go by .
She thought that in all her life she had never seen soldiers so uncertain on their feet : they were always tripping over something or other , and whenever one went down , several more always fell over him , so that the ground was soon covered with little heaps of men .
Then came the horses .
Having four feet , these managed rather better than the foot-soldiers : but even THEY stumbled now and then ; and it seemed to be a regular rule that , whenever a horse stumbled the rider fell off instantly .
The confusion got worse every moment , and Alice was very glad to get out of the wood into an open place , where she found the White King seated on the ground , busily writing in his memorandum-book .
` I 've sent them all ! '
the King cried in a tone of delight , on seeing Alice .
` Did you happen to meet any soldiers , my dear , as you came through the wood ? '
` Yes , I did , ' said Alice : ` several thousand , I should think . '
` Four thousand two hundred and seven , that 's the exact number , ' the King said , referring to his book . '
I could n't send all the horses , you know , because two of them are wanted in the game .
And I have n't sent the two Messengers , either .
They 're both gone to the town .
Just look along the road , and tell me if you can see either of them . ' '
I see nobody on the road , ' said Alice . '
I only wish I had such eyes , ' the King remarked in a fretful tone .
` To be able to see Nobody !
And at that distance , too !
Why , it 's as much as I can do to see real people , by this light ! '
All this was lost on Alice , who was still looking intently along the road , shading her eyes with one hand . '
I see somebody now ! '
she exclaimed at last .
` But he 's coming very slowly -- and what curious attitudes he goes into ! '
-LRB- For the messenger kept skipping up and down , and wriggling like an eel , as he came along , with his great hands spread out like fans on each side . -RRB-
` Not at all , ' said the King .
` He 's an Anglo-Saxon Messenger -- and those are Anglo-Saxon attitudes .
He only does them when he 's happy .
His name is Haigha . '
-LRB- He pronounced it so as to rhyme with ` mayor . ' -RRB- '
I love my love with an H , ' Alice could n't help beginning , ` because he is Happy .
I hate him with an H , because he is Hideous .
I fed him with -- with -- with Ham-sandwiches and Hay .
His name is Haigha , and he lives -- ' ` He lives on the Hill , ' the King remarked simply , without the least idea that he was joining in the game , while Alice was still hesitating for the name of a town beginning with H. ` The other Messenger 's called Hatta .
I must have TWO , you know -- to come and go .
One to come , and one to go . ' '
I beg your pardon ? '
said Alice .
` It is n't respectable to beg , ' said the King . '
I only meant that I did n't understand , ' said Alice .
` Why one to come and one to go ? '
` Did n't I tell you ? '
the King repeated impatiently . '
I must have Two -- to fetch and carry .
One to fetch , and one to carry . '
At this moment the Messenger arrived : he was far too much out of breath to say a word , and could only wave his hands about , and make the most fearful faces at the poor King .
` This young lady loves you with an H , ' the King said , introducing Alice in the hope of turning off the Messenger 's attention from himself -- but it was no use -- the Anglo-Saxon attitudes only got more extraordinary every moment , while the great eyes rolled wildly from side to side .
` You alarm me ! '
said the King . '
I feel faint -- Give me a ham sandwich ! '
On which the Messenger , to Alice 's great amusement , opened a bag that hung round his neck , and handed a sandwich to the King , who devoured it greedily .
` Another sandwich ! '
said the King .
` There 's nothing but hay left now , ' the Messenger said , peeping into the bag .
` Hay , then , ' the King murmured in a faint whisper .
Alice was glad to see that it revived him a good deal .
` There 's nothing like eating hay when you 're faint , ' he remarked to her , as he munched away . '
I should think throwing cold water over you would be better , ' Alice suggested : ` or some sal-volatile . ' '
I did n't say there was nothing BETTER , ' the King replied . '
I said there was nothing LIKE it . '
Which Alice did not venture to deny .
` Who did you pass on the road ? '
the King went on , holding out his hand to the Messenger for some more hay .
` Nobody , ' said the Messenger .
` Quite right , ' said the King : ` this young lady saw him too .
So of course Nobody walks slower than you . ' '
I do my best , ' the Messenger said in a sulky tone .
` I 'm sure nobody walks much faster than I do ! '
` He ca n't do that , ' said the King , ` or else he 'd have been here first .
However , now you 've got your breath , you may tell us what 's happened in the town . '
` I 'll whisper it , ' said the Messenger , putting his hands to his mouth in the shape of a trumpet , and stooping so as to get close to the King 's ear .
Alice was sorry for this , as she wanted to hear the news too .
However , instead of whispering , he simply shouted at the top of his voice ` They 're at it again ! '
` Do you call THAT a whisper ? '
cried the poor King , jumping up and shaking himself .
` If you do such a thing again , I 'll have you buttered !
It went through and through my head like an earthquake ! '
` It would have to be a very tiny earthquake ! '
thought Alice .
` Who are at it again ? '
she ventured to ask .
` Why the Lion and the Unicorn , of course , ' said the King .
` Fighting for the crown ? '
` Yes , to be sure , ' said the King : ` and the best of the joke is , that it 's MY crown all the while !
Let 's run and see them . '
And they trotted off , Alice repeating to herself , as she ran , the words of the old song : -- ` The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown : The Lion beat the Unicorn all round the town .
Some gave them white bread , some gave them brown ; Some gave them plum-cake and drummed them out of town . '
` Does -- the one -- that wins -- get the crown ? '
she asked , as well as she could , for the run was putting her quite out of breath .
` Dear me , no ! '
said the King .
` What an idea ! '
` Would you -- be good enough , ' Alice panted out , after running a little further , ` to stop a minute -- just to get -- one 's breath again ? '
` I 'm GOOD enough , ' the King said , ` only I 'm not strong enough .
You see , a minute goes by so fearfully quick .
You might as well try to stop a Bandersnatch ! '
Alice had no more breath for talking , so they trotted on in silence , till they came in sight of a great crowd , in the middle of which the Lion and Unicorn were fighting .
They were in such a cloud of dust , that at first Alice could not make out which was which : but she soon managed to distinguish the Unicorn by his horn .
They placed themselves close to where Hatta , the other messenger , was standing watching the fight , with a cup of tea in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other .
` He 's only just out of prison , and he had n't finished his tea when he was sent in , ' Haigha whispered to Alice : ` and they only give them oyster-shells in there -- so you see he 's very hungry and thirsty .
How are you , dear child ? '
he went on , putting his arm affectionately round Hatta 's neck .
Hatta looked round and nodded , and went on with his bread and butter .
` Were you happy in prison , dear child ? '
said Haigha .
Hatta looked round once more , and this time a tear or two trickled down his cheek : but not a word would he say .
` Speak , ca n't you ! '
Haigha cried impatiently .
But Hatta only munched away , and drank some more tea .
` Speak , wo n't you ! '
cried the King .
` How are they getting on with the fight ? '
Hatta made a desperate effort , and swallowed a large piece of bread-and-butter .
` They 're getting on very well , ' he said in a choking voice : ` each of them has been down about eighty-seven times . '
` Then I suppose they 'll soon bring the white bread and the brown ? '
Alice ventured to remark .
` It 's waiting for 'em now , ' said Hatta : ` this is a bit of it as I 'm eating . '
There was a pause in the fight just then , and the Lion and the Unicorn sat down , panting , while the King called out ` Ten minutes allowed for refreshments ! '
Haigha and Hatta set to work at once , carrying rough trays of white and brown bread .
Alice took a piece to taste , but it was VERY dry . '
I do n't think they 'll fight any more to-day , ' the King said to Hatta : ` go and order the drums to begin . '
And Hatta went bounding away like a grasshopper .
For a minute or two Alice stood silent , watching him .
Suddenly she brightened up .
` Look , look ! '
she cried , pointing eagerly .
` There 's the White Queen running across the country !
She came flying out of the wood over yonder -- How fast those Queens CAN run ! '
` There 's some enemy after her , no doubt , ' the King said , without even looking round .
` That wood 's full of them . '
` But are n't you going to run and help her ? '
Alice asked , very much surprised at his taking it so quietly .
` No use , no use ! '
said the King .
` She runs so fearfully quick .
You might as well try to catch a Bandersnatch !
But I 'll make a memorandum about her , if you like -- She 's a dear good creature , ' he repeated softly to himself , as he opened his memorandum-book .
` Do you spell `` creature '' with a double `` e '' ? '
At this moment the Unicorn sauntered by them , with his hands in his pockets . '
I had the best of it this time ? '
he said to the King , just glancing at him as he passed . '
A little -- a little , ' the King replied , rather nervously .
` You should n't have run him through with your horn , you know . '
` It did n't hurt him , ' the Unicorn said carelessly , and he was going on , when his eye happened to fall upon Alice : he turned round rather instantly , and stood for some time looking at her with an air of the deepest disgust .
` What -- is -- this ? '
he said at last .
` This is a child ! '
Haigha replied eagerly , coming in front of Alice to introduce her , and spreading out both his hands towards her in an Anglo-Saxon attitude .
` We only found it to-day .
It 's as large as life , and twice as natural ! ' '
I always thought they were fabulous monsters ! '
said the Unicorn .
` Is it alive ? '
` It can talk , ' said Haigha , solemnly .
The Unicorn looked dreamily at Alice , and said ` Talk , child . '
Alice could not help her lips curling up into a smile as she began : ` Do you know , I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters , too !
I never saw one alive before ! '
` Well , now that we HAVE seen each other , ' said the Unicorn , ` if you 'll believe in me , I 'll believe in you .
Is that a bargain ? '
` Yes , if you like , ' said Alice .
` Come , fetch out the plum-cake , old man ! '
the Unicorn went on , turning from her to the King .
` None of your brown bread for me ! '
` Certainly -- certainly ! '
the King muttered , and beckoned to Haigha .
` Open the bag ! '
he whispered .
` Quick !
Not that one -- that 's full of hay ! '
Haigha took a large cake out of the bag , and gave it to Alice to hold , while he got out a dish and carving-knife .
How they all came out of it Alice could n't guess .
It was just like a conjuring-trick , she thought .
The Lion had joined them while this was going on : he looked very tired and sleepy , and his eyes were half shut .
` What 's this ! '
he said , blinking lazily at Alice , and speaking in a deep hollow tone that sounded like the tolling of a great bell .
` Ah , what IS it , now ? '
the Unicorn cried eagerly .
` You 'll never guess !
I could n't . '
The Lion looked at Alice wearily .
` Are you animal -- vegetable -- or mineral ? '
he said , yawning at every other word .
` It 's a fabulous monster ! '
the Unicorn cried out , before Alice could reply .
` Then hand round the plum-cake , Monster , ' the Lion said , lying down and putting his chin on this paws .
` And sit down , both of you , ' -LRB- to the King and the Unicorn -RRB- : ` fair play with the cake , you know ! '
The King was evidently very uncomfortable at having to sit down between the two great creatures ; but there was no other place for him .
` What a fight we might have for the crown , NOW ! '
the Unicorn said , looking slyly up at the crown , which the poor King was nearly shaking off his head , he trembled so much . '
I should win easy , ' said the Lion .
` I 'm not so sure of that , ' said the Unicorn .
` Why , I beat you all round the town , you chicken ! '
the Lion replied angrily , half getting up as he spoke .
Here the King interrupted , to prevent the quarrel going on : he was very nervous , and his voice quite quivered .
` All round the town ? '
he said .
` That 's a good long way .
Did you go by the old bridge , or the market-place ?
You get the best view by the old bridge . '
` I 'm sure I do n't know , ' the Lion growled out as he lay down again .
` There was too much dust to see anything .
What a time the Monster is , cutting up that cake ! '
Alice had seated herself on the bank of a little brook , with the great dish on her knees , and was sawing away diligently with the knife .
` It 's very provoking ! '
she said , in reply to the Lion -LRB- she was getting quite used to being called ` the Monster ' -RRB- .
` I 've cut several slices already , but they always join on again ! '
` You do n't know how to manage Looking-glass cakes , ' the Unicorn remarked .
` Hand it round first , and cut it afterwards . '
This sounded nonsense , but Alice very obediently got up , and carried the dish round , and the cake divided itself into three pieces as she did so .
` NOW cut it up , ' said the Lion , as she returned to her place with the empty dish . '
I say , this is n't fair ! '
cried the Unicorn , as Alice sat with the knife in her hand , very much puzzled how to begin .
` The Monster has given the Lion twice as much as me ! '
` She 's kept none for herself , anyhow , ' said the Lion .
` Do you like plum-cake , Monster ? '
But before Alice could answer him , the drums began .
Where the noise came from , she could n't make out : the air seemed full of it , and it rang through and through her head till she felt quite deafened .
She started to her feet and sprang across the little brook in her terror , * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * and had just time to see the Lion and the Unicorn rise to their feet , with angry looks at being interrupted in their feast , before she dropped to her knees , and put her hands over her ears , vainly trying to shut out the dreadful uproar .
` If THAT does n't `` drum them out of town , '' ' she thought to herself , ` nothing ever will ! '
CHAPTER VIII .
` It 's my own Invention ' After a while the noise seemed gradually to die away , till all was dead silence , and Alice lifted up her head in some alarm .
There was no one to be seen , and her first thought was that she must have been dreaming about the Lion and the Unicorn and those queer Anglo-Saxon Messengers .
However , there was the great dish still lying at her feet , on which she had tried to cut the plum-cake , ` So I was n't dreaming , after all , ' she said to herself , ` unless -- unless we 're all part of the same dream .
Only I do hope it 's MY dream , and not the Red King 's !
I do n't like belonging to another person 's dream , ' she went on in a rather complaining tone : ` I 've a great mind to go and wake him , and see what happens ! '
At this moment her thoughts were interrupted by a loud shouting of ` Ahoy !
Ahoy !
Check ! '
and a Knight dressed in crimson armour came galloping down upon her , brandishing a great club .
Just as he reached her , the horse stopped suddenly : ` You 're my prisoner ! '
the Knight cried , as he tumbled off his horse .
Startled as she was , Alice was more frightened for him than for herself at the moment , and watched him with some anxiety as he mounted again .
As soon as he was comfortably in the saddle , he began once more ` You 're my -- ' but here another voice broke in ` Ahoy !
Ahoy !
Check ! '
and Alice looked round in some surprise for the new enemy .
This time it was a White Knight .
He drew up at Alice 's side , and tumbled off his horse just as the Red Knight had done : then he got on again , and the two Knights sat and looked at each other for some time without speaking .
Alice looked from one to the other in some bewilderment .
` She 's MY prisoner , you know ! '
the Red Knight said at last .
` Yes , but then I came and rescued her ! '
the White Knight replied .
` Well , we must fight for her , then , ' said the Red Knight , as he took up his helmet -LRB- which hung from the saddle , and was something the shape of a horse 's head -RRB- , and put it on .
` You will observe the Rules of Battle , of course ? '
the White Knight remarked , putting on his helmet too . '
I always do , ' said the Red Knight , and they began banging away at each other with such fury that Alice got behind a tree to be out of the way of the blows . '
I wonder , now , what the Rules of Battle are , ' she said to herself , as she watched the fight , timidly peeping out from her hiding-place : ` one Rule seems to be , that if one Knight hits the other , he knocks him off his horse , and if he misses , he tumbles off himself -- and another Rule seems to be that they hold their clubs with their arms , as if they were Punch and Judy -- What a noise they make when they tumble !
Just like a whole set of fire-irons falling into the fender !
And how quiet the horses are !
They let them get on and off them just as if they were tables ! '
Another Rule of Battle , that Alice had not noticed , seemed to be that they always fell on their heads , and the battle ended with their both falling off in this way , side by side : when they got up again , they shook hands , and then the Red Knight mounted and galloped off .
` It was a glorious victory , was n't it ? '
said the White Knight , as he came up panting . '
I do n't know , ' Alice said doubtfully . '
I do n't want to be anybody 's prisoner .
I want to be a Queen . '
` So you will , when you 've crossed the next brook , ' said the White Knight .
` I 'll see you safe to the end of the wood -- and then I must go back , you know .
That 's the end of my move . '
` Thank you very much , ' said Alice .
` May I help you off with your helmet ? '
It was evidently more than he could manage by himself ; however , she managed to shake him out of it at last .
` Now one can breathe more easily , ' said the Knight , putting back his shaggy hair with both hands , and turning his gentle face and large mild eyes to Alice .
She thought she had never seen such a strange-looking soldier in all her life .
He was dressed in tin armour , which seemed to fit him very badly , and he had a queer-shaped little deal box fastened across his shoulder , upside-down , and with the lid hanging open .
Alice looked at it with great curiosity . '
I see you 're admiring my little box . '
the Knight said in a friendly tone .
` It 's my own invention -- to keep clothes and sandwiches in .
You see I carry it upside-down , so that the rain ca n't get in . '
` But the things can get OUT , ' Alice gently remarked .
` Do you know the lid 's open ? ' '
I did n't know it , ' the Knight said , a shade of vexation passing over his face .
` Then all the things must have fallen out !
And the box is no use without them . '
He unfastened it as he spoke , and was just going to throw it into the bushes , when a sudden thought seemed to strike him , and he hung it carefully on a tree .
` Can you guess why I did that ? '
he said to Alice .
Alice shook her head .
` In hopes some bees may make a nest in it -- then I should get the honey . '
` But you 've got a bee-hive -- or something like one -- fastened to the saddle , ' said Alice .
` Yes , it 's a very good bee-hive , ' the Knight said in a discontented tone , ` one of the best kind .
But not a single bee has come near it yet .
And the other thing is a mouse-trap .
I suppose the mice keep the bees out -- or the bees keep the mice out , I do n't know which . ' '
I was wondering what the mouse-trap was for , ' said Alice .
` It is n't very likely there would be any mice on the horse 's back . '
` Not very likely , perhaps , ' said the Knight : ` but if they DO come , I do n't choose to have them running all about . '
` You see , ' he went on after a pause , ` it 's as well to be provided for EVERYTHING .
That 's the reason the horse has all those anklets round his feet . '
` But what are they for ? '
Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity .
` To guard against the bites of sharks , ' the Knight replied .
` It 's an invention of my own .
And now help me on .
I 'll go with you to the end of the wood -- What 's the dish for ? '
` It 's meant for plum-cake , ' said Alice .
` We 'd better take it with us , ' the Knight said .
` It 'll come in handy if we find any plum-cake .
Help me to get it into this bag . '
This took a very long time to manage , though Alice held the bag open very carefully , because the Knight was so VERY awkward in putting in the dish : the first two or three times that he tried he fell in himself instead .
` It 's rather a tight fit , you see , ' he said , as they got it in a last ; ` There are so many candlesticks in the bag . '
And he hung it to the saddle , which was already loaded with bunches of carrots , and fire-irons , and many other things . '
I hope you 've got your hair well fastened on ? '
he continued , as they set off .
` Only in the usual way , ' Alice said , smiling .
` That 's hardly enough , ' he said , anxiously .
` You see the wind is so VERY strong here .
It 's as strong as soup . '
` Have you invented a plan for keeping the hair from being blown off ? '
Alice enquired .
` Not yet , ' said the Knight .
` But I 've got a plan for keeping it from FALLING off . ' '
I should like to hear it , very much . '
` First you take an upright stick , ' said the Knight .
` Then you make your hair creep up it , like a fruit-tree .
Now the reason hair falls off is because it hangs DOWN -- things never fall UPWARDS , you know .
It 's a plan of my own invention .
You may try it if you like . '
It did n't sound a comfortable plan , Alice thought , and for a few minutes she walked on in silence , puzzling over the idea , and every now and then stopping to help the poor Knight , who certainly was NOT a good rider .
Whenever the horse stopped -LRB- which it did very often -RRB- , he fell off in front ; and whenever it went on again -LRB- which it generally did rather suddenly -RRB- , he fell off behind .
Otherwise he kept on pretty well , except that he had a habit of now and then falling off sideways ; and as he generally did this on the side on which Alice was walking , she soon found that it was the best plan not to walk QUITE close to the horse .
` I 'm afraid you 've not had much practice in riding , ' she ventured to say , as she was helping him up from his fifth tumble .
The Knight looked very much surprised , and a little offended at the remark .
` What makes you say that ? '
he asked , as he scrambled back into the saddle , keeping hold of Alice 's hair with one hand , to save himself from falling over on the other side .
` Because people do n't fall off quite so often , when they 've had much practice . '
` I 've had plenty of practice , ' the Knight said very gravely : ` plenty of practice ! '
Alice could think of nothing better to say than ` Indeed ? '
but she said it as heartily as she could .
They went on a little way in silence after this , the Knight with his eyes shut , muttering to himself , and Alice watching anxiously for the next tumble .
` The great art of riding , ' the Knight suddenly began in a loud voice , waving his right arm as he spoke , ` is to keep -- ' Here the sentence ended as suddenly as it had begun , as the Knight fell heavily on the top of his head exactly in the path where Alice was walking .
She was quite frightened this time , and said in an anxious tone , as she picked him up , ' I hope no bones are broken ? '
` None to speak of , ' the Knight said , as if he did n't mind breaking two or three of them .
` The great art of riding , as I was saying , is -- to keep your balance properly .
Like this , you know -- ' He let go the bridle , and stretched out both his arms to show Alice what he meant , and this time he fell flat on his back , right under the horse 's feet .
` Plenty of practice ! '
he went on repeating , all the time that Alice was getting him on his feet again .
` Plenty of practice ! '
` It 's too ridiculous ! '
cried Alice , losing all her patience this time .
` You ought to have a wooden horse on wheels , that you ought ! '
` Does that kind go smoothly ? '
the Knight asked in a tone of great interest , clasping his arms round the horse 's neck as he spoke , just in time to save himself from tumbling off again .
` Much more smoothly than a live horse , ' Alice said , with a little scream of laughter , in spite of all she could do to prevent it .
` I 'll get one , ' the Knight said thoughtfully to himself .
` One or two -- several . '
There was a short silence after this , and then the Knight went on again .
` I 'm a great hand at inventing things .
Now , I daresay you noticed , that last time you picked me up , that I was looking rather thoughtful ? '
` You WERE a little grave , ' said Alice .
` Well , just then I was inventing a new way of getting over a gate -- would you like to hear it ? '
` Very much indeed , ' Alice said politely .
` I 'll tell you how I came to think of it , ' said the Knight .
` You see , I said to myself , `` The only difficulty is with the feet : the HEAD is high enough already . ''
Now , first I put my head on the top of the gate -- then I stand on my head -- then the feet are high enough , you see -- then I 'm over , you see . '
` Yes , I suppose you 'd be over when that was done , ' Alice said thoughtfully : ` but do n't you think it would be rather hard ? ' '
I have n't tried it yet , ' the Knight said , gravely : ` so I ca n't tell for certain -- but I 'm afraid it WOULD be a little hard . '
He looked so vexed at the idea , that Alice changed the subject hastily .
` What a curious helmet you 've got ! '
she said cheerfully .
` Is that your invention too ? '
The Knight looked down proudly at his helmet , which hung from the saddle .
` Yes , ' he said , ` but I 've invented a better one than that -- like a sugar loaf .
When I used to wear it , if I fell off the horse , it always touched the ground directly .
So I had a VERY little way to fall , you see -- But there WAS the danger of falling INTO it , to be sure .
That happened to me once -- and the worst of it was , before I could get out again , the other White Knight came and put it on .
He thought it was his own helmet . '
The knight looked so solemn about it that Alice did not dare to laugh .
` I 'm afraid you must have hurt him , ' she said in a trembling voice , ` being on the top of his head . ' '
I had to kick him , of course , ' the Knight said , very seriously .
` And then he took the helmet off again -- but it took hours and hours to get me out .
I was as fast as -- as lightning , you know . '
` But that 's a different kind of fastness , ' Alice objected .
The Knight shook his head .
` It was all kinds of fastness with me , I can assure you ! '
he said .
He raised his hands in some excitement as he said this , and instantly rolled out of the saddle , and fell headlong into a deep ditch .
Alice ran to the side of the ditch to look for him .
She was rather startled by the fall , as for some time he had kept on very well , and she was afraid that he really WAS hurt this time .
However , though she could see nothing but the soles of his feet , she was much relieved to hear that he was talking on in his usual tone .
` All kinds of fastness , ' he repeated : ` but it was careless of him to put another man 's helmet on -- with the man in it , too . '
` How CAN you go on talking so quietly , head downwards ? '
Alice asked , as she dragged him out by the feet , and laid him in a heap on the bank .
The Knight looked surprised at the question .
` What does it matter where my body happens to be ? '
he said .
` My mind goes on working all the same .
In fact , the more head downwards I am , the more I keep inventing new things . '
` Now the cleverest thing of the sort that I ever did , ' he went on after a pause , ` was inventing a new pudding during the meat-course . '
` In time to have it cooked for the next course ? '
said Alice .
` Well , not the NEXT course , ' the Knight said in a slow thoughtful tone : ` no , certainly not the next COURSE . '
` Then it would have to be the next day .
I suppose you would n't have two pudding-courses in one dinner ? '
` Well , not the NEXT day , ' the Knight repeated as before : ` not the next DAY .
In fact , ' he went on , holding his head down , and his voice getting lower and lower , ' I do n't believe that pudding ever WAS cooked !
In fact , I do n't believe that pudding ever WILL be cooked !
And yet it was a very clever pudding to invent . '
` What did you mean it to be made of ? '
Alice asked , hoping to cheer him up , for the poor Knight seemed quite low-spirited about it .
` It began with blotting paper , ' the Knight answered with a groan .
` That would n't be very nice , I 'm afraid -- ' ` Not very nice ALONE , ' he interrupted , quite eagerly : ` but you 've no idea what a difference it makes mixing it with other things -- such as gunpowder and sealing-wax .
And here I must leave you . '
They had just come to the end of the wood .
Alice could only look puzzled : she was thinking of the pudding .
` You are sad , ' the Knight said in an anxious tone : ` let me sing you a song to comfort you . '
` Is it very long ? '
Alice asked , for she had heard a good deal of poetry that day .
` It 's long , ' said the Knight , ` but very , VERY beautiful .
Everybody that hears me sing it -- either it brings the TEARS into their eyes , or else -- ' ` Or else what ? '
said Alice , for the Knight had made a sudden pause .
` Or else it does n't , you know .
The name of the song is called `` HADDOCKS ' EYES . '' '
` Oh , that 's the name of the song , is it ? '
Alice said , trying to feel interested .
` No , you do n't understand , ' the Knight said , looking a little vexed .
` That 's what the name is CALLED .
The name really IS `` THE AGED AGED MAN . '' '
` Then I ought to have said `` That 's what the SONG is called '' ? '
Alice corrected herself .
` No , you ought n't : that 's quite another thing !
The SONG is called `` WAYS AND MEANS '' : but that 's only what it 's CALLED , you know ! '
` Well , what IS the song , then ? '
said Alice , who was by this time completely bewildered . '
I was coming to that , ' the Knight said .
` The song really IS `` A-SITTING ON A GATE '' : and the tune 's my own invention . '
So saying , he stopped his horse and let the reins fall on its neck : then , slowly beating time with one hand , and with a faint smile lighting up his gentle foolish face , as if he enjoyed the music of his song , he began .
Of all the strange things that Alice saw in her journey Through The Looking-Glass , this was the one that she always remembered most clearly .
Years afterwards she could bring the whole scene back again , as if it had been only yesterday -- the mild blue eyes and kindly smile of the Knight -- the setting sun gleaming through his hair , and shining on his armour in a blaze of light that quite dazzled her -- the horse quietly moving about , with the reins hanging loose on his neck , cropping the grass at her feet -- and the black shadows of the forest behind -- all this she took in like a picture , as , with one hand shading her eyes , she leant against a tree , watching the strange pair , and listening , in a half dream , to the melancholy music of the song .
` But the tune IS N'T his own invention , ' she said to herself : ` it 's `` I GIVE THEE ALL , I CAN NO MORE . '' '
She stood and listened very attentively , but no tears came into her eyes .
` I 'll tell thee everything I can ; There 's little to relate .
I saw an aged aged man , A-sitting on a gate .
`` Who are you , aged man ? ''
I said , `` and how is it you live ? ''
And his answer trickled through my head Like water through a sieve .
He said `` I look for butterflies That sleep among the wheat : I make them into mutton-pies , And sell them in the street .
I sell them unto men , '' he said , `` Who sail on stormy seas ; And that 's the way I get my bread -- A trifle , if you please . ''
But I was thinking of a plan To dye one 's whiskers green , And always use so large a fan That they could not be seen .
So , having no reply to give To what the old man said , I cried , `` Come , tell me how you live ! ''
And thumped him on the head .
His accents mild took up the tale : He said `` I go my ways , And when I find a mountain-rill , I set it in a blaze ; And thence they make a stuff they call Rolands ' Macassar Oil -- Yet twopence-halfpenny is all They give me for my toil . ''
But I was thinking of a way To feed oneself on batter , And so go on from day to day Getting a little fatter .
I shook him well from side to side , Until his face was blue : `` Come , tell me how you live , '' I cried , `` And what it is you do ! ''
He said `` I hunt for haddocks ' eyes Among the heather bright , And work them into waistcoat-buttons In the silent night .
And these I do not sell for gold Or coin of silvery shine But for a copper halfpenny , And that will purchase nine .
`` I sometimes dig for buttered rolls , Or set limed twigs for crabs ; I sometimes search the grassy knolls For wheels of Hansom-cabs .
And that 's the way '' -LRB- he gave a wink -RRB- `` By which I get my wealth -- And very gladly will I drink Your Honour 's noble health . ''
I heard him then , for I had just Completed my design To keep the Menai bridge from rust By boiling it in wine .
I thanked him much for telling me The way he got his wealth , But chiefly for his wish that he Might drink my noble health .
And now , if e'er by chance I put My fingers into glue Or madly squeeze a right-hand foot Into a left-hand shoe , Or if I drop upon my toe A very heavy weight , I weep , for it reminds me so , Of that old man I used to know -- Whose look was mild , whose speech was slow , Whose hair was whiter than the snow , Whose face was very like a crow , With eyes , like cinders , all aglow , Who seemed distracted with his woe , Who rocked his body to and fro , And muttered mumblingly and low , As if his mouth were full of dough , Who snorted like a buffalo -- That summer evening , long ago , A-sitting on a gate . '
As the Knight sang the last words of the ballad , he gathered up the reins , and turned his horse 's head along the road by which they had come .
` You 've only a few yards to go , ' he said , ` down the hill and over that little brook , and then you 'll be a Queen -- But you 'll stay and see me off first ? '
he added as Alice turned with an eager look in the direction to which he pointed . '
I sha n't be long .
You 'll wait and wave your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road ?
I think it 'll encourage me , you see . '
` Of course I 'll wait , ' said Alice : ` and thank you very much for coming so far -- and for the song -- I liked it very much . ' '
I hope so , ' the Knight said doubtfully : ` but you did n't cry so much as I thought you would . '
So they shook hands , and then the Knight rode slowly away into the forest .
` It wo n't take long to see him OFF , I expect , ' Alice said to herself , as she stood watching him .
` There he goes !
Right on his head as usual !
However , he gets on again pretty easily -- that comes of having so many things hung round the horse -- ' So she went on talking to herself , as she watched the horse walking leisurely along the road , and the Knight tumbling off , first on one side and then on the other .
After the fourth or fifth tumble he reached the turn , and then she waved her handkerchief to him , and waited till he was out of sight . '
I hope it encouraged him , ' she said , as she turned to run down the hill : ` and now for the last brook , and to be a Queen !
How grand it sounds ! '
A very few steps brought her to the edge of the brook .
` The Eighth Square at last ! '
she cried as she bounded across , * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * and threw herself down to rest on a lawn as soft as moss , with little flower-beds dotted about it here and there .
` Oh , how glad I am to get here !
And what IS this on my head ? '
she exclaimed in a tone of dismay , as she put her hands up to something very heavy , and fitted tight all round her head .
` But how CAN it have got there without my knowing it ? '
she said to herself , as she lifted it off , and set it on her lap to make out what it could possibly be .
It was a golden crown .
CHAPTER IX .
Queen Alice ` Well , this IS grand ! '
said Alice . '
I never expected I should be a Queen so soon -- and I 'll tell you what it is , your majesty , ' she went on in a severe tone -LRB- she was always rather fond of scolding herself -RRB- , ` it 'll never do for you to be lolling about on the grass like that !
Queens have to be dignified , you know ! '
So she got up and walked about -- rather stiffly just at first , as she was afraid that the crown might come off : but she comforted herself with the thought that there was nobody to see her , ` and if I really am a Queen , ' she said as she sat down again , ' I shall be able to manage it quite well in time . '
Everything was happening so oddly that she did n't feel a bit surprised at finding the Red Queen and the White Queen sitting close to her , one on each side : she would have liked very much to ask them how they came there , but she feared it would not be quite civil .
However , there would be no harm , she thought , in asking if the game was over .
` Please , would you tell me -- ' she began , looking timidly at the Red Queen .
` Speak when you 're spoken to ! '
The Queen sharply interrupted her .
` But if everybody obeyed that rule , ' said Alice , who was always ready for a little argument , ` and if you only spoke when you were spoken to , and the other person always waited for YOU to begin , you see nobody would ever say anything , so that -- ' ` Ridiculous ! '
cried the Queen .
` Why , do n't you see , child -- ' here she broke off with a frown , and , after thinking for a minute , suddenly changed the subject of the conversation .
` What do you mean by `` If you really are a Queen '' ?
What right have you to call yourself so ?
You ca n't be a Queen , you know , till you 've passed the proper examination .
And the sooner we begin it , the better . ' '
I only said `` if '' ! '
poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone .
The two Queens looked at each other , and the Red Queen remarked , with a little shudder , ` She SAYS she only said `` if '' -- ' ` But she said a great deal more than that ! '
the White Queen moaned , wringing her hands .
` Oh , ever so much more than that ! '
` So you did , you know , ' the Red Queen said to Alice .
` Always speak the truth -- think before you speak -- and write it down afterwards . '
` I 'm sure I did n't mean -- ' Alice was beginning , but the Red Queen interrupted her impatiently .
` That 's just what I complain of !
You SHOULD have meant !
What do you suppose is the use of child without any meaning ?
Even a joke should have some meaning -- and a child 's more important than a joke , I hope .
You could n't deny that , even if you tried with both hands . ' '
I do n't deny things with my HANDS , ' Alice objected .
` Nobody said you did , ' said the Red Queen . '
I said you could n't if you tried . '
` She 's in that state of mind , ' said the White Queen , ` that she wants to deny SOMETHING -- only she does n't know what to deny ! ' '
A nasty , vicious temper , ' the Red Queen remarked ; and then there was an uncomfortable silence for a minute or two .
The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen , ' I invite you to Alice 's dinner-party this afternoon . '
The White Queen smiled feebly , and said ` And I invite YOU . ' '
I did n't know I was to have a party at all , ' said Alice ; ` but if there is to be one , I think I ought to invite the guests . '
` We gave you the opportunity of doing it , ' the Red Queen remarked : ` but I daresay you 've not had many lessons in manners yet ? '
` Manners are not taught in lessons , ' said Alice .
` Lessons teach you to do sums , and things of that sort . '
` And you do Addition ? '
the White Queen asked .
` What 's one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one ? ' '
I do n't know , ' said Alice . '
I lost count . '
` She ca n't do Addition , ' the Red Queen interrupted .
` Can you do Subtraction ?
Take nine from eight . '
` Nine from eight I ca n't , you know , ' Alice replied very readily : ` but -- ' ` She ca n't do Subtraction , ' said the White Queen .
` Can you do Division ?
Divide a loaf by a knife -- what 's the answer to that ? ' '
I suppose -- ' Alice was beginning , but the Red Queen answered for her .
` Bread-and-butter , of course .
Try another Subtraction sum .
Take a bone from a dog : what remains ? '
Alice considered .
` The bone would n't remain , of course , if I took it -- and the dog would n't remain ; it would come to bite me -- and I 'm sure I should n't remain ! '
` Then you think nothing would remain ? '
said the Red Queen . '
I think that 's the answer . '
` Wrong , as usual , ' said the Red Queen : ` the dog 's temper would remain . '
` But I do n't see how -- ' ` Why , look here ! '
the Red Queen cried .
` The dog would lose its temper , would n't it ? '
` Perhaps it would , ' Alice replied cautiously .
` Then if the dog went away , its temper would remain ! '
the Queen exclaimed triumphantly .
Alice said , as gravely as she could , ` They might go different ways . '
But she could n't help thinking to herself , ` What dreadful nonsense we ARE talking ! '
` She ca n't do sums a BIT ! '
the Queens said together , with great emphasis .
` Can YOU do sums ? '
Alice said , turning suddenly on the White Queen , for she did n't like being found fault with so much .
The Queen gasped and shut her eyes . '
I can do Addition , if you give me time -- but I ca n't do Subtraction , under ANY circumstances ! '
` Of course you know your A B C ? '
said the Red Queen .
` To be sure I do . '
said Alice .
` So do I , ' the White Queen whispered : ` we 'll often say it over together , dear .
And I 'll tell you a secret -- I can read words of one letter !
Is n't THAT grand !
However , do n't be discouraged .
You 'll come to it in time . '
Here the Red Queen began again .
` Can you answer useful questions ? '
she said .
` How is bread made ? ' '
I know THAT ! '
Alice cried eagerly .
` You take some flour -- ' ` Where do you pick the flower ? '
the White Queen asked .
` In a garden , or in the hedges ? '
` Well , it is n't PICKED at all , ' Alice explained : ` it 's GROUND -- ' ` How many acres of ground ? '
said the White Queen .
` You must n't leave out so many things . '
` Fan her head ! '
the Red Queen anxiously interrupted .
` She 'll be feverish after so much thinking . '
So they set to work and fanned her with bunches of leaves , till she had to beg them to leave off , it blew her hair about so .
` She 's all right again now , ' said the Red Queen .
` Do you know Languages ?
What 's the French for fiddle-de-dee ? '
` Fiddle-de-dee 's not English , ' Alice replied gravely .
` Who ever said it was ? '
said the Red Queen .
Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time .
` If you 'll tell me what language `` fiddle-de-dee '' is , I 'll tell you the French for it ! '
she exclaimed triumphantly .
But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly , and said ` Queens never make bargains . ' '
I wish Queens never asked questions , ' Alice thought to herself .
` Do n't let us quarrel , ' the White Queen said in an anxious tone .
` What is the cause of lightning ? '
` The cause of lightning , ' Alice said very decidedly , for she felt quite certain about this , ` is the thunder -- no , no ! '
she hastily corrected herself . '
I meant the other way . '
` It 's too late to correct it , ' said the Red Queen : ` when you 've once said a thing , that fixes it , and you must take the consequences . '
` Which reminds me -- ' the White Queen said , looking down and nervously clasping and unclasping her hands , ` we had SUCH a thunderstorm last Tuesday -- I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays , you know . '
Alice was puzzled .
` In OUR country , ' she remarked , ` there 's only one day at a time . '
The Red Queen said , ` That 's a poor thin way of doing things .
Now HERE , we mostly have days and nights two or three at a time , and sometimes in the winter we take as many as five nights together -- for warmth , you know . '
` Are five nights warmer than one night , then ? '
Alice ventured to ask .
` Five times as warm , of course . '
` But they should be five times as COLD , by the same rule -- ' ` Just so ! '
cried the Red Queen .
` Five times as warm , AND five times as cold -- just as I 'm five times as rich as you are , AND five times as clever ! '
Alice sighed and gave it up .
` It 's exactly like a riddle with no answer ! '
she thought .
` Humpty Dumpty saw it too , ' the White Queen went on in a low voice , more as if she were talking to herself .
` He came to the door with a corkscrew in his hand -- ' ` What did he want ? '
said the Red Queen .
` He said he WOULD come in , ' the White Queen went on , ` because he was looking for a hippopotamus .
Now , as it happened , there was n't such a thing in the house , that morning . '
` Is there generally ? '
Alice asked in an astonished tone .
` Well , only on Thursdays , ' said the Queen . '
I know what he came for , ' said Alice : ` he wanted to punish the fish , because -- ' Here the White Queen began again .
` It was SUCH a thunderstorm , you ca n't think ! '
-LRB- ` She NEVER could , you know , ' said the Red Queen . -RRB-
` And part of the roof came off , and ever so much thunder got in -- and it went rolling round the room in great lumps -- and knocking over the tables and things -- till I was so frightened , I could n't remember my own name ! '
Alice thought to herself , ' I never should TRY to remember my name in the middle of an accident !
Where would be the use of it ? '
but she did not say this aloud , for fear of hurting the poor Queen 's feeling .
` Your Majesty must excuse her , ' the Red Queen said to Alice , taking one of the White Queen 's hands in her own , and gently stroking it : ` she means well , but she ca n't help saying foolish things , as a general rule . '
The White Queen looked timidly at Alice , who felt she OUGHT to say something kind , but really could n't think of anything at the moment .
` She never was really well brought up , ' the Red Queen went on : ` but it 's amazing how good-tempered she is !
Pat her on the head , and see how pleased she 'll be ! '
But this was more than Alice had courage to do . '
A little kindness -- and putting her hair in papers -- would do wonders with her -- ' The White Queen gave a deep sigh , and laid her head on Alice 's shoulder . '
I AM so sleepy ? '
she moaned .
` She 's tired , poor thing ! '
said the Red Queen .
` Smooth her hair -- lend her your nightcap -- and sing her a soothing lullaby . ' '
I have n't got a nightcap with me , ' said Alice , as she tried to obey the first direction : ` and I do n't know any soothing lullabies . ' '
I must do it myself , then , ' said the Red Queen , and she began : ` Hush-a-by lady , in Alice 's lap !
Till the feast 's ready , we 've time for a nap : When the feast 's over , we 'll go to the ball -- Red Queen , and White Queen , and Alice , and all !
` And now you know the words , ' she added , as she put her head down on Alice 's other shoulder , ` just sing it through to ME .
I 'm getting sleepy , too . '
In another moment both Queens were fast asleep , and snoring loud .
` What AM I to do ? '
exclaimed Alice , looking about in great perplexity , as first one round head , and then the other , rolled down from her shoulder , and lay like a heavy lump in her lap . '
I do n't think it EVER happened before , that any one had to take care of two Queens asleep at once !
No , not in all the History of England -- it could n't , you know , because there never was more than one Queen at a time .
Do wake up , you heavy things ! '
she went on in an impatient tone ; but there was no answer but a gentle snoring .
The snoring got more distinct every minute , and sounded more like a tune : at last she could even make out the words , and she listened so eagerly that , when the two great heads vanished from her lap , she hardly missed them .
She was standing before an arched doorway over which were the words QUEEN ALICE in large letters , and on each side of the arch there was a bell-handle ; one was marked ` Visitors ' Bell , ' and the other ` Servants ' Bell . '
` I 'll wait till the song 's over , ' thought Alice , ` and then I 'll ring -- the -- WHICH bell must I ring ? '
she went on , very much puzzled by the names .
` I 'm not a visitor , and I 'm not a servant .
There OUGHT to be one marked `` Queen , '' you know -- ' Just then the door opened a little way , and a creature with a long beak put its head out for a moment and said ` No admittance till the week after next ! '
and shut the door again with a bang .
Alice knocked and rang in vain for a long time , but at last , a very old Frog , who was sitting under a tree , got up and hobbled slowly towards her : he was dressed in bright yellow , and had enormous boots on .
` What is it , now ? '
the Frog said in a deep hoarse whisper .
Alice turned round , ready to find fault with anybody .
` Where 's the servant whose business it is to answer the door ? '
she began angrily .
` Which door ? '
said the Frog .
Alice almost stamped with irritation at the slow drawl in which he spoke .
` THIS door , of course ! '
The Frog looked at the door with his large dull eyes for a minute : then he went nearer and rubbed it with his thumb , as if he were trying whether the paint would come off ; then he looked at Alice .
` To answer the door ? '
he said .
` What 's it been asking of ? '
He was so hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him . '
I do n't know what you mean , ' she said . '
I talks English , does n't I ? '
the Frog went on .
` Or are you deaf ?
What did it ask you ? '
` Nothing ! '
Alice said impatiently .
` I 've been knocking at it ! '
` Should n't do that -- should n't do that -- ' the Frog muttered .
` Vexes it , you know . '
Then he went up and gave the door a kick with one of his great feet .
` You let IT alone , ' he panted out , as he hobbled back to his tree , ` and it 'll let YOU alone , you know . '
At this moment the door was flung open , and a shrill voice was heard singing : ` To the Looking-Glass world it was Alice that said , `` I 've a sceptre in hand , I 've a crown on my head ; Let the Looking-Glass creatures , whatever they be , Come and dine with the Red Queen , the White Queen , and me . '' '
And hundreds of voices joined in the chorus : ` Then fill up the glasses as quick as you can , And sprinkle the table with buttons and bran : Put cats in the coffee , and mice in the tea -- And welcome Queen Alice with thirty-times-three ! '
Then followed a confused noise of cheering , and Alice thought to herself , ` Thirty times three makes ninety .
I wonder if any one 's counting ? '
In a minute there was silence again , and the same shrill voice sang another verse ; ' `` O Looking-Glass creatures , '' quoth Alice , `` draw near !
'T is an honour to see me , a favour to hear : 'T is a privilege high to have dinner and tea Along with the Red Queen , the White Queen , and me ! '' '
Then came the chorus again : -- ` Then fill up the glasses with treacle and ink , Or anything else that is pleasant to drink : Mix sand with the cider , and wool with the wine -- And welcome Queen Alice with ninety-times-nine ! '
` Ninety times nine ! '
Alice repeated in despair , ` Oh , that 'll never be done !
I 'd better go in at once -- ' and there was a dead silence the moment she appeared .
Alice glanced nervously along the table , as she walked up the large hall , and noticed that there were about fifty guests , of all kinds : some were animals , some birds , and there were even a few flowers among them .
` I 'm glad they 've come without waiting to be asked , ' she thought : ' I should never have known who were the right people to invite ! '
There were three chairs at the head of the table ; the Red and White Queens had already taken two of them , but the middle one was empty .
Alice sat down in it , rather uncomfortable in the silence , and longing for some one to speak .
At last the Red Queen began .
` You 've missed the soup and fish , ' she said .
` Put on the joint ! '
And the waiters set a leg of mutton before Alice , who looked at it rather anxiously , as she had never had to carve a joint before .
` You look a little shy ; let me introduce you to that leg of mutton , ' said the Red Queen .
` Alice -- Mutton ; Mutton -- Alice . '
The leg of mutton got up in the dish and made a little bow to Alice ; and Alice returned the bow , not knowing whether to be frightened or amused .
` May I give you a slice ? '
she said , taking up the knife and fork , and looking from one Queen to the other .
` Certainly not , ' the Red Queen said , very decidedly : ` it is n't etiquette to cut any one you 've been introduced to .
Remove the joint ! '
And the waiters carried it off , and brought a large plum-pudding in its place . '
I wo n't be introduced to the pudding , please , ' Alice said rather hastily , ` or we shall get no dinner at all .
May I give you some ? '
But the Red Queen looked sulky , and growled ` Pudding -- Alice ; Alice -- Pudding .
Remove the pudding ! '
and the waiters took it away so quickly that Alice could n't return its bow .
However , she did n't see why the Red Queen should be the only one to give orders , so , as an experiment , she called out ` Waiter !
Bring back the pudding ! '
and there it was again in a moment like a conjuring-trick .
It was so large that she could n't help feeling a LITTLE shy with it , as she had been with the mutton ; however , she conquered her shyness by a great effort and cut a slice and handed it to the Red Queen .
` What impertinence ! '
said the Pudding . '
I wonder how you 'd like it , if I were to cut a slice out of YOU , you creature ! '
It spoke in a thick , suety sort of voice , and Alice had n't a word to say in reply : she could only sit and look at it and gasp .
` Make a remark , ' said the Red Queen : ` it 's ridiculous to leave all the conversation to the pudding ! '
` Do you know , I 've had such a quantity of poetry repeated to me to-day , ' Alice began , a little frightened at finding that , the moment she opened her lips , there was dead silence , and all eyes were fixed upon her ; ` and it 's a very curious thing , I think -- every poem was about fishes in some way .
Do you know why they 're so fond of fishes , all about here ? '
She spoke to the Red Queen , whose answer was a little wide of the mark .
` As to fishes , ' she said , very slowly and solemnly , putting her mouth close to Alice 's ear , ` her White Majesty knows a lovely riddle -- all in poetry -- all about fishes .
Shall she repeat it ? '
` Her Red Majesty 's very kind to mention it , ' the White Queen murmured into Alice 's other ear , in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon .
` It would be SUCH a treat !
May I ? '
` Please do , ' Alice said very politely .
The White Queen laughed with delight , and stroked Alice 's cheek .
Then she began : ' `` First , the fish must be caught . ''
That is easy : a baby , I think , could have caught it .
`` Next , the fish must be bought . ''
That is easy : a penny , I think , would have bought it .
`` Now cook me the fish ! ''
That is easy , and will not take more than a minute .
`` Let it lie in a dish ! ''
That is easy , because it already is in it .
`` Bring it here !
Let me sup ! ''
It is easy to set such a dish on the table .
`` Take the dish-cover up ! ''
Ah , THAT is so hard that I fear I 'm unable !
For it holds it like glue -- Holds the lid to the dish , while it lies in the middle : Which is easiest to do , Un-dish-cover the fish , or dishcover the riddle ? '
` Take a minute to think about it , and then guess , ' said the Red Queen .
` Meanwhile , we 'll drink your health -- Queen Alice 's health ! '
she screamed at the top of her voice , and all the guests began drinking it directly , and very queerly they managed it : some of them put their glasses upon their heads like extinguishers , and drank all that trickled down their faces -- others upset the decanters , and drank the wine as it ran off the edges of the table -- and three of them -LRB- who looked like kangaroos -RRB- scrambled into the dish of roast mutton , and began eagerly lapping up the gravy , ` just like pigs in a trough ! '
thought Alice .
` You ought to return thanks in a neat speech , ' the Red Queen said , frowning at Alice as she spoke .
` We must support you , you know , ' the White Queen whispered , as Alice got up to do it , very obediently , but a little frightened .
` Thank you very much , ' she whispered in reply , ` but I can do quite well without . '
` That would n't be at all the thing , ' the Red Queen said very decidedly : so Alice tried to submit to it with a good grace .
-LRB- ` And they DID push so ! '
she said afterwards , when she was telling her sister the history of the feast .
` You would have thought they wanted to squeeze me flat ! ' -RRB-
In fact it was rather difficult for her to keep in her place while she made her speech : the two Queens pushed her so , one on each side , that they nearly lifted her up into the air : ' I rise to return thanks -- ' Alice began : and she really DID rise as she spoke , several inches ; but she got hold of the edge of the table , and managed to pull herself down again .
` Take care of yourself ! '
screamed the White Queen , seizing Alice 's hair with both her hands .
` Something 's going to happen ! '
And then -LRB- as Alice afterwards described it -RRB- all sorts of things happened in a moment .
The candles all grew up to the ceiling , looking something like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top .
As to the bottles , they each took a pair of plates , which they hastily fitted on as wings , and so , with forks for legs , went fluttering about in all directions : ` and very like birds they look , ' Alice thought to herself , as well as she could in the dreadful confusion that was beginning .
At this moment she heard a hoarse laugh at her side , and turned to see what was the matter with the White Queen ; but , instead of the Queen , there was the leg of mutton sitting in the chair .
` Here I am ! '
cried a voice from the soup tureen , and Alice turned again , just in time to see the Queen 's broad good-natured face grinning at her for a moment over the edge of the tureen , before she disappeared into the soup .
There was not a moment to be lost .
Already several of the guests were lying down in the dishes , and the soup ladle was walking up the table towards Alice 's chair , and beckoning to her impatiently to get out of its way . '
I ca n't stand this any longer ! '
she cried as she jumped up and seized the table-cloth with both hands : one good pull , and plates , dishes , guests , and candles came crashing down together in a heap on the floor .
` And as for YOU , ' she went on , turning fiercely upon the Red Queen , whom she considered as the cause of all the mischief -- but the Queen was no longer at her side -- she had suddenly dwindled down to the size of a little doll , and was now on the table , merrily running round and round after her own shawl , which was trailing behind her .
At any other time , Alice would have felt surprised at this , but she was far too much excited to be surprised at anything NOW .
` As for YOU , ' she repeated , catching hold of the little creature in the very act of jumping over a bottle which had just lighted upon the table , ` I 'll shake you into a kitten , that I will ! '
CHAPTER X. Shaking She took her off the table as she spoke , and shook her backwards and forwards with all her might .
The Red Queen made no resistance whatever ; only her face grew very small , and her eyes got large and green : and still , as Alice went on shaking her , she kept on growing shorter -- and fatter -- and softer -- and rounder -- and -- CHAPTER XI .
Waking -- and it really WAS a kitten , after all .
CHAPTER XII .
Which Dreamed it ?
` Your majesty should n't purr so loud , ' Alice said , rubbing her eyes , and addressing the kitten , respectfully , yet with some severity .
` You woke me out of oh !
such a nice dream !
And you 've been along with me , Kitty -- all through the Looking-Glass world .
Did you know it , dear ? '
It is a very inconvenient habit of kittens -LRB- Alice had once made the remark -RRB- that , whatever you say to them , they ALWAYS purr .
` If they would only purr for `` yes '' and mew for `` no , '' or any rule of that sort , ' she had said , ` so that one could keep up a conversation !
But how CAN you talk with a person if they always say the same thing ? '
On this occasion the kitten only purred : and it was impossible to guess whether it meant ` yes ' or ` no . '
So Alice hunted among the chessmen on the table till she had found the Red Queen : then she went down on her knees on the hearth-rug , and put the kitten and the Queen to look at each other .
` Now , Kitty ! '
she cried , clapping her hands triumphantly .
` Confess that was what you turned into ! '
-LRB- ` But it would n't look at it , ' she said , when she was explaining the thing afterwards to her sister : ` it turned away its head , and pretended not to see it : but it looked a LITTLE ashamed of itself , so I think it MUST have been the Red Queen . ' -RRB-
` Sit up a little more stiffly , dear ! '
Alice cried with a merry laugh .
` And curtsey while you 're thinking what to -- what to purr .
It saves time , remember ! '
And she caught it up and gave it one little kiss , ` just in honour of having been a Red Queen . '
` Snowdrop , my pet ! '
she went on , looking over her shoulder at the White Kitten , which was still patiently undergoing its toilet , ` when WILL Dinah have finished with your White Majesty , I wonder ?
That must be the reason you were so untidy in my dream -- Dinah !
do you know that you 're scrubbing a White Queen ?
Really , it 's most disrespectful of you !
` And what did DINAH turn to , I wonder ? '
she prattled on , as she settled comfortably down , with one elbow in the rug , and her chin in her hand , to watch the kittens .
` Tell me , Dinah , did you turn to Humpty Dumpty ?
I THINK you did -- however , you 'd better not mention it to your friends just yet , for I 'm not sure .
` By the way , Kitty , if only you 'd been really with me in my dream , there was one thing you WOULD have enjoyed -- I had such a quantity of poetry said to me , all about fishes !
To-morrow morning you shall have a real treat .
All the time you 're eating your breakfast , I 'll repeat `` The Walrus and the Carpenter '' to you ; and then you can make believe it 's oysters , dear !
` Now , Kitty , let 's consider who it was that dreamed it all .
This is a serious question , my dear , and you should NOT go on licking your paw like that -- as if Dinah had n't washed you this morning !
You see , Kitty , it MUST have been either me or the Red King .
He was part of my dream , of course -- but then I was part of his dream , too !
WAS it the Red King , Kitty ?
You were his wife , my dear , so you ought to know -- Oh , Kitty , DO help to settle it !
I 'm sure your paw can wait ! '
But the provoking kitten only began on the other paw , and pretended it had n't heard the question .
Which do YOU think it was ?
-- A boat beneath a sunny sky , Lingering onward dreamily In an evening of July -- Children three that nestle near , Eager eye and willing ear , Pleased a simple tale to hear -- Long has paled that sunny sky : Echoes fade and memories die .
Autumn frosts have slain July .
Still she haunts me , phantomwise , Alice moving under skies Never seen by waking eyes .
Children yet , the tale to hear , Eager eye and willing ear , Lovingly shall nestle near .
In a Wonderland they lie , Dreaming as the days go by , Dreaming as the summers die : Ever drifting down the stream -- Lingering in the golden gleam -- Life , what is it but a dream ?
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Aunt_Jo's_Scrap-Bag,_Volume_5.txt.out
I. JIMMY 'S CRUISE IN THE PINAFORE .
HOW HE SHIPPED .
A boy sat on a door-step in a despondent attitude , with his eyes fixed on a pair of very shabby shoes , and his elbows resting on his knees , as if to hide the big patches there .
But it was not the fact that his toes were nearly out and his clothes dilapidated which brought the wrinkles to his forehead and the tears to his eyes , for he was used to that state of things , and bore it without complaint .
The prospect was a dull one for a lively lad full of the spring longings which sunny April weather always brings .
But it was not the narrow back-street where noisy children played and two or three dusty trees tried to bud without sunshine , that made him look so dismal .
Nor was it the knowledge that a pile of vests was nearly ready for him to trudge away with before he could really rest after doing many errands to save mother 's weary feet .
No , it was a burden that lay very heavily on his heart , and made it impossible to even whistle as he waited .
Above the sounds that filled the street he heard a patient moan from the room within ; and no matter what object his eyes rested on , he saw with sorrowful distinctness a small white face turned wistfully toward the window , as if weary of the pillow where it had laid so long .
Merry little Kitty , who used to sing and dance from morning till night , was now so feeble and wasted that he could carry her about like a baby .
All day she lay moaning softly , and her one comfort was when `` brother '' could come and sing to her .
That night he could not sing ; his heart was so full , because the doctor had said that the poor child must have country air as soon as possible , else she never would recover from the fever which left her such a sad little ghost of her former self .
But , alas , there was no money for the trip , and mother was sewing day and night to earn enough for a week at least of blessed country air and quiet .
Jimmy did his best to help , but could find very little to do , and the pennies came in so slowly he was almost in despair .
There was no father to lend a strong hand , and Mrs. Nelson was one of the `` silent poor , '' who can not ask for charity , no matter how much they may need it .
The twelve-year-old boy considered himself the man of the family , and manfully carried as many burdens as his young shoulders would bear ; but this was a very heavy one , so it is no wonder that he looked sober .
Holding his curly head in his hands , as if to keep it from flying asunder with the various plans working inside , he sat staring at the dusty bricks in a desperate frame of mind .
Warm days were coming , and every hour was precious , for poor Kitty pined in the close room , and all he could do was to bring her dandelions and bits of green grass from the Common when she begged to go in the fields and pick `` pretties '' for herself .
He loved the little sister dearly , and , as he remembered her longing , his eyes filled , and he doubled up both fists with an air of determination , muttering to himself , -- `` She shall go !
I do n't see any other way , and I 'll do it ! ''
The plan which had been uppermost lately was this .
His father had been a sailor , and Jimmy proposed to run away to sea as cabin boy .
His wages were to be paid before he went , so mother and Kitty could be in the country while he was gone , and in a few months he would come sailing gayly home to find the child her rosy self again .
A very boyish and impossible plan , but he meant it , and was in just the mood to carry it out , -- for every other attempt to make money had failed .
`` I 'll do it as sure as my name is Jim Nelson .
I 'll take a look at the ships this very night , and go in the first one that will have me , '' he said , with a resolute nod of the head , though his heart sank within him at the thought .
`` I wonder which kind of captains pay boys best ?
I guess I 'll try a steamer ; they make short trips .
I heard the cannon to-day , so one is in , and I 'll try for a place before I go to bed . ''
Little did desperate Jimmy guess what ship he would really sail in , nor what a prosperous voyage he was about to make ; for help was coming that very minute , as it generally does , sooner or later , to generous people who are very much in earnest .
First a shrill whistle was heard , at the sound of which he looked up quickly ; then a rosy-faced girl of about his own age came skipping down the street , swinging her hat by one string ; and , as Jimmy watched her approach , a smile began to soften the grim look he wore , for Willy Bryant was his best friend and neighbor , being full of courage , fun , and kindness .
He nodded , and made room for her on the step , -- the place she usually occupied at spare moments when they got lessons and recounted their scrapes to each other .
But to-night Willy seemed possessed of some unusually good piece of news which she chose to tell in her own lively fashion , for , instead of sitting down , she began to dance a sailor 's hornpipe , singing gayly , `` I 'm little Buttercup , sweet little Buttercup , '' till her breath gave out .
`` What makes you so jolly , Will ? ''
asked Jimmy , as she dropped down beside him and fanned herself with the ill-used hat .
`` Such fun -- you 'll never guess -- just what we wanted -- if your mother only will !
You 'll dance , too , when you know , '' panted the girl , smiling like a substantial sort of fairy come to bring good luck .
`` Fire away , then .
It will have to be extra nice to set me off .
I do n't feel a bit like jigs now , '' answered Jimmy , as the gloom obscured his face again , like a cloud over the sun .
`` You know ` Pinafore ' ? ''
began Will , and getting a quick nod for an answer , she poured forth the following tale with great rapidity : `` Well , some folks are going to get it up with children to do it , and they want any boys and girls that can sing to go and be looked at to-morrow , and the good ones will be picked out , and dressed up , and taught how to act , and have the nicest time that ever was .
Some of our girls are going , and so am I , and you sing and must come , too , and have some fun .
Wo n't it be jolly ? ''
`` I guess it would ; but I ca n't .
Mother needs me every minute out of school , '' began Jimmy , with a shake of the head , having made up his mind some time ago that he must learn to do without fun .
`` But we shall be paid for it , '' cried Will , clapping her hands with the double delight of telling the best part of her story , and seeing Jimmy 's sober face clear suddenly as if the sun had burst forth with great brilliancy .
`` Really ?
How much ?
Can I sing well enough ? ''
and he clutched her arm excitedly , for this unexpected ray of hope dazzled him .
`` Some of them will have ten dollars a week , and some more , -- the real nice ones , like Lee , the singing boy , who is a wonder , '' answered Will , in the tone of one well informed on such points .
`` Ten dollars ! ''
gasped Jimmy , for the immensity of the sum took his breath away .
`` Could I get that ?
How long ?
Where do we go ?
Do they really want us fellows ?
Are you sure it 's all true ? ''
`` It was all in the paper , and Miss Pym , the teacher who boards at our house , told Ma about it .
The folks advertised for school-children , sixty of 'em , and will really pay ; and Ma said I could go and try , and all the money I get I 'm going to put in a bank and have for my own .
Do n't you believe me now ? ''
Miss Pym and the newspapers settled the matter in Jimmy 's mind , and made him more anxious than before about the other point .
`` Do you think I would have any chance ? ''
he asked , still holding Will , who seemed inclined for another dance .
`` I know you would .
Do n't you do splendidly at school ?
And did n't they want you for a choir boy , only your mother could n't spare you ? ''
answered Will , decidedly ; for Jimmy did love music , and had a sweet little pipe of his own , as she well knew .
`` Mother will have to spare me now , if they pay like that .
I can work all day and do without sleep to earn money this way .
Oh , Will , I 'm so glad you came , for I was just ready to run away to sea .
There did n't seem anything else to do , '' whispered Jimmy in a choky sort of tone , as hopes and fears struggled together in his boyish mind .
`` Run as fast as you like , and I 'll go too .
We 'll sail in the ` Pinafore , ' and come home with our pockets full of money . ''
` Sing , hey , the merry maiden and the tar ! ' ''
burst out Will , who was so full of spirits she could not keep still another minute .
Jimmy joined in , and the fresh voices echoed through the street so pleasantly that Mrs. Peters stopped scolding her six squabbling children , while Kitty 's moaning changed to a feeble little sound of satisfaction , for `` brother 's '' lullabies were her chief comfort and delight .
`` We shall lose school , you know , for we act in the afternoon , not the evening .
I do n't care ; but you will , you like to study so well .
Miss Pym did n't like it at first , but Ma said it would help the poor folks , and a little fun would n't hurt the children .
I thought of you right away , and if you do n't get as much money as I do , you shall have some of mine , so Kitty can go away soon . ''
Will 's merry face grew very sweet and kind as she said that , and Jimmy was glad his mother called him just then , because he did not know how to thank this friend in need .
When he came out with the parcel of vests he looked like a different boy , for Mrs. Nelson had told him to go and find out all about it , and had seemed as much dazzled by the prospect as he did , sewing was such weary work .
Their interview with Miss Pym was a most encouraging one , and it was soon settled that Jimmy should go with Will to try for a place on the morrow .
`` And I 'll get it , too ! ''
he said to himself , as he kissed Kitty 's thin cheek , full of the sweet hope that he might be the means of bringing back life and color to the little face he loved so well .
He was so excited he could not sleep , and beguiled the long hours by humming under his breath all the airs he knew belonging to the already popular opera .
Next morning he flew about his work as if for a wager , and when Will came for him there was not a happier heart in all the city than the hopeful one that thumped under Jimmy 's threadbare best jacket .
Such a crowd of girls and boys as they found at the hall where they were told to apply for inspection ; such a chirping and piping went on there , it sounded like a big cage full of larks and linnets ; and by and by , when the trial was over , such a smiling troop of children as was left to be drilled by the energetic gentlemen who had the matter in hand .
Among this happy band stood our Jimmy , chosen for his good voice , and Will , because of her bright face and lively , self-possessed manners .
They could hardly wait to be dismissed , and it was a race home to see who should be first to tell the good news .
Jimmy tried to be quiet on Kitty 's account , but failed entirely ; and it was a pleasant sight to see the boy run into his mother 's arms , crying joyfully , -- `` I 'm in !
I 'm in !
Ten dollars a week !
Hurrah ! ''
`` I can hardly believe it ! ''
And weary Mrs. Nelson dropped her needle to indulge in a few moments of delightful repose .
`` If it goes well they may want us for a month or six weeks , '' the man said .
`` Just think , maybe I 'll get fifty or sixty dollars !
and Baby will get well right off , '' cried Jimmy , in an arithmetical sort of rapture , as he leaned above Kitty , who tried to clap her little hands without quite knowing what the joy was all about .
HOW HE SAILED .
After that day Jimmy led a very happy life , for he loved music and enjoyed the daily drill with his mates , though it was long before he saw the inside of the theatre .
Will knew a good deal about it , for an actor 's family had boarded with her mother , and the little girl had been behind the scenes .
But to Jimmy , who had only seen one fairy play , all was very strange when at last he went upon the stage ; for the glittering world he expected was gone , and all was dusty , dark , and queer , with trap-doors underfoot , machinery overhead , and a wilderness of scenery jumbled together in the drollest way .
He was all eyes and ears , and enjoyed himself immensely as he came and went , sung and acted , with the troop of lads who made up the sailor chorus .
It was a real ship to him , in spite of painted cannon , shaky masts , and cabin doors that led nowhere .
He longed to run up the rigging ; but as that was forbidden , for fear of danger , he contented himself by obeying orders with nautical obedience , singing with all his might , and taking great satisfaction in his blue suit with the magical letters `` H. M. S. Pinafore '' round his cap .
Day by day all grew more and more interesting .
His mother was never tired of hearing his adventures , he sung Kitty to sleep with the new songs , and the neighbors took such a friendly interest in his success that they called him Lord Nelson , and predicted that he would be as famous as his great namesake .
When the grand day came at last , and the crew of jolly young tars stood ready to burst forth with the opening chorus , `` We sail the ocean blue , Our saucy ship 's a beauty ; We 're gallant men and true , And bound to do our duty ! ''
Jimmy hardly knew whether he stood on his head or his heels at first , for , in spite of many rehearsals , everything seemed changed .
Instead of daylight , gas shone everywhere , the empty seats were full , the orchestra playing splendidly , and when the curtain rose , a sea of friendly faces welcomed them , and the pleasant sound of applause made the hearts under the blue jackets dance gayly .
How those boys did sing !
how their eyes shone , and their feet kept time to the familiar strains !
with what a relish they hitched up their trousers and lurched about , or saluted and cheered as the play demanded .
With what interest they watched the microscopic midshipmite , listened to Rafe as his sweet voice melodiously told the story of his hapless love , and smiled on pretty Josephine , who was a regular bluebird without the scream .
`` Ai n't this fun ? ''
whispered Jimmy 's next neighbor , taking advantage of a general burst of laughter , as the inimitable little bumboat woman advertised her wares with captivating drollery .
`` Right down jolly ! ''
answered Jimmy , feeling that a series of somersaults across the stage would be an immense relief to the pent-up emotions of his boyish soul .
For under all the natural excitement of the hour deep down lay the sweet certainty that he was earning health for Kitty , and it made his heart sing for joy more blithely than any jovial chorus to which he lent his happy voice .
But his bliss was not complete till the stately Sir Joseph , K. C. B. , had come aboard , followed by `` his sisters and his cousins and his aunts ; '' for among that flock of devoted relatives in white muslin and gay ribbons was Will .
Standing in the front row , her bright face was good to see , for her black eyes sparkled , every hair on her head curled its best , her cherry bows streamed in the breeze , and her feet pranced irresistibly at the lively parts of the music .
She longed to dance the hornpipe which the little Quaker aunt did so capitally , but , being denied that honor , distinguished herself by the comic vigor with which she `` polished up the handle of the big front door , '' and did the other `` business '' recorded by the gallant `` ruler of the Queen 's Navee . ''
She and Jimmy nodded to each other behind the Admiral 's august back , and while Captain Corcoran was singing to the moon , and Buttercup suffering the pangs of `` Wemorse , '' the young people had a gay time behind the scenes .
Jimmy and Will sat upon a green baize bank to compare notes , while the relatives flew about like butterflies , and the sailors talked base-ball , jack-knives , and other congenial topics , when not envying Sir Joseph his cocked hat , and the Captain his epaulettes .
It was a very successful launch , and the merry little crew set sail with a fair wind and every prospect of a prosperous voyage .
When the first performance was over , our two children left their fine feathers behind them , like Cinderella when the magic hour struck , and went gayly home , feeling much elated , for they knew they should go back to fresh triumphs , and were earning money by their voices like Jenny Lind and Mario .
How they pitied other boys and girls who could not go in at that mysterious little door ; how important they felt as parts of the spectacle about which every one was talking , and what millionnaires they considered themselves as they discussed their earnings and planned what to do with the prospective fortunes .
That was the beginning of many busy , happy weeks for both the children , -- weeks which they long remembered with great pleasure , as did older and wiser people ; for that merry , innocent little opera proved that theatres can be made the scenes of harmless amusement , and opened to a certain class of young people a new and profitable field for their talents .
So popular did this small company become that the piece went on through the summer vacation , and was played in the morning as well as afternoon to satisfy the crowds who wished to see and hear it .
Never had the dear old Boston Museum , which so many of us have loved and haunted for years , seen such a pretty sight as one of those morning performances .
It was the perfection of harmless merry-making , and the audience was as pleasant a spectacle as that upon the stage .
Fathers and mothers stole an hour from their busy lives to come and be children with their children , irresistibly attracted and charmed by the innocent fun , the gay music that bewitched the ear one could hardly tell why , and the artless acting of those who are always playing parts , whether the nursery or the theatre is their stage .
The windows stood open , and sunshine and fresh air came in to join the revel .
Babies crowed and prattled , mammas chatted together , old people found they had not forgotten how to laugh , and boys and girls rejoiced over the discovery of a new delight for holidays .
It was good to be there , and in spite of all the discussion in papers and parlors , no harm came to the young mariners , but much careful training of various sorts , and well-earned wages that went into pockets which sorely needed a silver lining .
HOW THE VOYAGE ENDED .
So the good ship `` Pinafore '' sailed and sailed for many prosperous weeks , and when at last she came into port and dropped anchor for the season she was received with a salute of general approbation for the successful engagement out of which she came with her flags flying and not one of her gallant crew killed or wounded .
Well pleased with their share of the glory , officers and men went ashore to spend their prize money with true sailor generosity , all eager to ship again for another cruise in the autumn .
But long before that time Able Seaman James Nelson had sent his family into the country , mother begging Will to take good care of her dear boy till he could join them , and Kitty throwing kisses as she smiled good-by , with cheeks already the rosier for the comforts `` brother '' had earned for her .
Jimmy would not desert his ship while she floated , but managed to spend his Sundays out of town , often taking Will with him as first mate ; and , thanks to her lively tongue , friends were soon made for the new-comers .
Mrs. Nelson found plenty of sewing , Kitty grew strong and well in the fine air , and the farmer with whom they lived , seeing what a handy lad the boy was , offered him work and wages for the autumn , so all could be independent and together .
With this comfortable prospect before him , Jimmy sang away like a contented blackbird , never tiring of his duty , for he was a general favorite , and Kitty literally strewed his way with flowers gathered by her own grateful little hands .
When the last day came , he was in such spirits that he was found doing double-shuffles in corners , hugging the midshipmite , who was a little girl of about Kitty 's age , and treating his messmates to peanuts with a lavish hand .
Will had her hornpipe , also , when the curtain was down , kissed every one of the other `` sisters , cousins , and aunts , '' and joined lustily in the rousing farewell cheers given by the crew .
A few hours later , a cheerful-looking boy might have been seen trudging toward one of the railway-stations .
A new hat , brave in blue streamers , was on his head ; a red balloon struggled to escape from one hand ; a shabby carpet-bag , stuffed full , was in the other ; and a pair of shiny shoes creaked briskly , as if the feet inside were going on a very pleasant errand .
About this young traveller , who walked with a sailor-like roll and lurch , revolved a little girl chattering like a magpie , and occasionally breaking into song , as if she could n't help it .
`` Be sure you come next Saturday ; it wo n't be half such fun if you do n't go halves , '' said the boy , beaming at her as he hauled down the impatient balloon , which seemed inclined to break from its moorings '' ` Yes , I know That is so ! ' ''
hummed the girl with a skip to starboard , that she might bear a hand with the bag .
`` Keep some cherries for me , and do n't forget to give Kit the doll I dressed for her . ''
`` I should n't have been going myself if it had n't been for you , Will .
I never shall forget that , '' said Jimmy , whom intense satisfaction rendered rather more sedate than his friend .
`` Running away to sea is great fun , ` With a tar that ploughs the water ! ' ''
sung Will in spite of herself . ''
` And a gallant captain 's daughter , ' '' echoed Jimmy , smiling across the carpet-bag .
Then both joined in an irrepressible chorus of `` Dash it !
Dash it ! ''
as a big man nearly upset them and a dog barked madly at the balloon .
Being safely landed in the train , Jimmy hung out of the window till the last minute , discussing his new prospects with Will , who stood on tiptoe outside , bubbling over with fun .
`` I 'll teach you to make butter and cheese , and you shall be my dairy-woman , for I mean to be a farmer , '' he said , just as the bell rang .
`` All right , I 'd like that ever so much . ''
And then the irrepressible madcap burst out , to the great amusement of the passengers , -- '' ` For you might have been a Roosian , A Frenchman , Turk or Proosian , Or an Ital-i-an . ' ''
And Jimmy could not resist shouting back , as the train began to move , -- '' ` But in spite of all temptations To belong to other nations , I 'm an Amer-i-can . ' ''
Then he subsided , to think over the happy holiday before him and the rich cargo of comfort , independence , and pleasure he had brought home from his successful cruise in the `` Pinafore . ''
II .
TWO LITTLE TRAVELLERS .
The first of these true histories is about Annie Percival , -- a very dear and lovely child , whose journey interested many other children , and is still remembered with gratitude by those whom she visited on a far-off island .
Annie was six when she sailed away to Fayal with her mother , grandmamma , and `` little Aunt Ruth , '' as she called the young aunty who was still a school-girl .
Very cunning was Annie 's outfit , and her little trunk was a pretty as well as a curious sight , for everything was so small and complete it looked as if a doll was setting off for Europe .
Such a wee dressing-case , with bits of combs and brushes for the curly head ; such a cosey scarlet wrapper for the small woman to wear in her berth , with slippers to match when she trotted from state-room to state-room ; such piles of tiny garments laid nicely in , and the owner 's initials on the outside of the trunk ; not to mention the key on a ribbon in her pocket , as grown up as you please .
I think the sight of that earnest , sunshiny face must have been very pleasant to all on board , no matter how seasick they might be , and the sound of the cheery little voice , as sweet as the chirp of a bird , especially when she sung the funny song about the `` Owl and the pussy-cat in the pea-green boat , '' for she had charming ways , and was always making quaint , wise , or loving remarks .
Well , `` they sailed and they sailed , '' and came at last to Fayal , where everything was so new and strange that Annie 's big brown eyes could hardly spare time to sleep , so busy were they looking about .
The donkeys amused her very much , so did the queer language and ways of the Portuguese people round her , especially the very droll names given to the hens of a young friend .
The biddies seemed to speak the same dialect as at home , but evidently they understood Spanish also , and knew their own names , so it was fun to go and call Rio , Pico , Cappy , Clarissa , Whorfie , and poor Simonena , whose breast-bone grew out so that she could not eat and had to be killed .
But the thing which made the deepest impression on Annie was a visit to a charity-school at the old convent of San Antonio .
It was kept by some kind ladies , and twenty-five girls were taught and cared for in the big , bare place , that looked rather gloomy and forlorn to people from happy Boston , where charitable institutions are on a noble scale , as everybody knows .
Annie watched all that went on with intelligent interest , and when they were shown into the play-room she was much amazed and afflicted to find that the children had nothing to play with but a heap of rags , out of which they made queer dolls , with ravelled twine for hair , faces rudely drawn on the cloth , and funny boots on the shapeless legs .
No other toys appeared , but the girls sat on the floor of the great stone room , -- for there was no furniture , -- playing contentedly with their poor dolls , and smiling and nodding at `` the little Americana , '' who gravely regarded this sad spectacle , wondering how they could get on without china and waxen babies , tea-sets , and pretty chairs and tables to keep house with .
The girls thought that she envied them their dolls , and presently one came shyly up to offer two of their best , leaving the teacher to explain in English their wish to be polite to their distinguished guest .
Like the little gentlewoman she was , Annie graciously accepted the ugly bits of rag with answering nods and smiles , and carried them away with her as carefully as if they were of great beauty and value .
But when she was at home she expressed much concern and distress at the destitute condition of the children .
Nothing but rags to play with seemed a peculiarly touching state of poverty to her childish mind , and being a generous creature she yearned to give of her abundance to `` all the poor orphans who did n't have any nice dollies . ''
She had several pets of her own , but not enough to go round even if she sacrificed them , so kind grandmamma , who had been doing things of this sort all her life , relieved the child 's perplexity by promising to send twenty-five fine dolls to Fayal as soon as the party returned to Boston , where these necessaries of child-life are cheap and plenty .
Thus comforted , Annie felt that she could enjoy her dear Horta and Chica Pico Fatiera , particular darlings rechristened since her arrival .
A bundle of gay bits of silk , cloth , and flannel , and a present of money for books , were sent out to the convent by the ladies .
A treat of little cheeses for the girls to eat with their dry bread was added , much to Annie 's satisfaction , and helped to keep alive her interest in the school of San Antonio .
After many pleasant adventures during the six months spent in the city , our party came sailing home again all the better for the trip , and Annie so full of tales to tell that it was a never-failing source of amusement to hear her hold forth to her younger brother in her pretty way , `` splaining and ` scribing all about it . ''
Grandmamma 's promise was faithfully kept , and Annie brooded blissfully over the twenty-five dolls till they were dressed , packed , and sent away to Fayal .
A letter of thanks soon came back from the teacher , telling how surprised and delighted the girls were , and how they talked of Annie as if she were a sort of fairy princess who in return for two poor rag-babies sent a miraculous shower of splendid china ladies with gay gowns and smiling faces .
This childish charity was made memorable to all who knew of it by the fact that three months after she came home from that happy voyage Annie took the one from which there is no return .
For this journey there was needed no preparation but a little white gown , a coverlet of flowers , and the casket where the treasure of many hearts was tenderly laid away .
All alone , but not afraid , little Annie crossed the unknown sea that rolls between our world and the Islands of the Blest , to be welcomed there , I am sure , by spirits as innocent as her own , leaving behind her a very precious memory of her budding virtues and the relics of a short , sweet life .
Every one mourned for her , and all her small treasures were so carefully kept that they still exist .
Poor Horta , in the pincushion arm-chair , seems waiting patiently for the little mamma to come again ; the two rag-dolls lie side by side in grandma 's scrap-book , since there is now no happy voice to wake them into life ; and far away in the convent of San Antonio the orphans carefully keep their pretty gifts in memory of the sweet giver .
To them she is a saint now , not a fairy princess ; for when they heard of her death they asked if they might pray for the soul of the dear little Americana , and the teacher said , `` Pray rather for the poor mother who has lost so much . ''
So the grateful orphans prayed and the mother was comforted , for now another little daughter lies in her arms and kisses away the lonely pain at her heart .
* * * * * The second small traveller I want to tell about lived in the same city as the first , and her name was Maggie Woods .
Her father was an Englishman who came to America to try his fortune , but did not find it ; for , when Maggie was three months old , the great Chicago fire destroyed their home ; soon after , the mother died ; then the father was drowned , and Maggie was left all alone in a strange country .
She had a good aunt in England , however , who took great pains to discover the child after the death of the parents , and sent for her to come home and be cared for .
It was no easy matter to get a five-years ' child across the Atlantic , for the aunt could not come to fetch her , and no one whom she knew was going over .
But Maggie had found friends in Chicago ; the American consul at Manchester was interested in the case , and every one was glad to help the forlorn baby , who was too young to understand the pathos of her story .
After letters had gone to and fro , it was decided to send the child to England in charge of the captain of a steamer , trusting to the kindness of all fellow-travellers to help her on her way .
The friends in Chicago bestirred themselves to get her ready , and then it was that Annie 's mother found that she could do something which would have delighted her darling , had she been here to know of it .
Laid tenderly away were many small garments belonging to the other little pilgrim , whose journeying was so soon ended ; and from among all these precious things Mrs. Percival carefully chose a comfortable outfit for that cold March voyage .
The little gray gown went , and the red hood , the warm socks , and the cosey wraps no longer needed by the quiet sleeper under the snow .
Perhaps something of her loving nature lingered about the clothes , and helped to keep the orphan warm and safe , for Annie 's great delight was to pet and help all who needed comfort and protection .
When all was ready , Maggie 's small effects were packed in a light basket , so that she could carry it herself if need be .
A card briefly telling the story was fastened on the corner , and a similar paper recommending her to the protection of all kind people , was sewed to the bosom of her frock .
Then , not in the least realizing what lay before her , the child was consigned to the conductor of the train to be forwarded to persons in New York who would see her safely on board the steamer .
I should dearly like to have seen the little maid and the big basket as they set out on that long trip as tranquilly as if for a day 's visit ; and it is a comfort to know that before the train started , the persons who took her there had interested a motherly lady in the young traveller , who promised to watch over her while their ways were the same .
All went well , and Maggie was safely delivered to the New York friends , who forwarded her to the steamer , well supplied with toys and comforts for the voyage , and placed in charge of captain and stewardess .
She sailed on the 3d of March , and on the 12th landed at Liverpool , after a pleasant trip , during which she was the pet of all on board .
The aunt welcomed her joyfully , and the same day the child reached her new home , the Commercial Inn , Compstall , after a journey of over four thousand miles .
The consul and owners of the steamer wanted to see the adventurous young lady who had come so far alone , and neighbors and strangers made quite a lion of her , for all kindly hearts were interested , and the protective charity which had guided and guarded her in two hemispheres and across the wide sea , made all men fathers , all women mothers , to the little one till she was safe .
Her picture lies before me as I write , -- a pretty child standing in a chair , with a basket of toys on the table before her ; curly hair pushed back from the face , pensive eyes , and a pair of stout little feet crossed one over the other as if glad to rest .
I wish I could put the photograph into the story , because the small heroine is an interesting one , and still lives with the good aunt , who is very fond and proud of her , and writes pleasant accounts of her progress to the friends in America .
So ends the journey of my second small traveller , and when I think of her safe and happy in a good home , I always fancy that -LRB- if such things may be -RRB- in the land which is lovelier than even beautiful old England , Maggie 's mother watches over little Annie .
III .
A JOLLY FOURTH .
Door-step parties were the fashion that year , and it was while a dozen young folks sat chatting on Annie Hadwin 's steps in the twilight that they laid the plan which turned out such a grand success in the end .
`` For my part , I am glad we are to be put on a short allowance of gunpowder , and that crackers are forbidden , they are such a nuisance , burning holes in clothes , frightening horses , and setting houses afire , '' said sober Fred from the gate , where he and several other fellows were roosting socially together .
`` It wo n't seem a bit like a regular Fourth without the salutes three times during the day .
They are afraid the old cannon will kick , and blow off some other fellow 's arm , as it did last year , '' added Elly Dickens , the beau of the party , as he pulled down his neat wristbands , hoping Maud admired the new cuff-buttons in them .
`` What shall we do in the evening , since the ball is given up ?
Just because the old folks are too tired to enjoy dancing , we ca n't have any , and I think it is too bad , '' said pretty Belle , impatiently , for she danced like a fairy and was never tired .
`` The authorities did n't dare to stop our races in the morning .
There would have been an insurrection if they had , '' called out long Herbert from the grass , where he lay at the feet of black-eyed Julia .
`` We must do something to finish off with .
Come , somebody suggest a new , nice , safe , and jolly plan for the evening , '' cried Grace , who liked fun , and had just slipped a little toad into Jack Spratt 's pocket as a pleasant surprise when he felt for his handkerchief .
`` Let us offer a prize for the brightest idea .
Five minutes for meditation , then all suggest a plan , and the best one shall be adopted , '' proposed Annie , glad to give a lively turn to her party .
All agreed , and sudden silence followed the chatter , broken now and then by an exclamation of `` I 've got it !
No , I have n't , '' which produced a laugh at the impetuous party .
`` Time 's up , '' announced Fred , looking at `` the turnip , '' as his big old-fashioned watch was called .
Every one had a proposal more or less original , and much discussion followed ; but it was finally decided that Herbert 's idea of floating about in boats to enjoy the fireworks on the hill would be romantic , reposeful , and on the whole satisfactory .
`` Each boat might have a colored lantern ; that would look pretty , and then there would be no danger of running into our neighbors in the dark , '' said Annie , who was a little timid on the water in a wherry .
`` Why not have lots , and make a regular ` feast of lanterns , ' as they do in China ?
I was reading about it the other day , and can show you how to do it .
Wo n't it be gay ? ''
And Fred the bookworm nearly tumbled off his perch , as an excited gesture emptied his pockets of the library books which served as ballast .
`` Yes !
yes ! ''
cried the other lads , with various demonstrations of delight as the new fancy grew upon their lively minds .
`` Fred and Annie must have the prize , for their idea is the most brilliant one .
Nan can give the flag to the winner of the race , and ` Deacon ' can lead the boats , for I think it would be fine to have a procession on the river .
Fireworks are an old story , so let us surprise the town by something regularly splendid , '' proposed Elly , fired in his turn with a bright idea .
`` We will !
we will ! ''
cried the rest , and at once plunged into the affair with all the ardor of their years .
`` Let us dress up , '' said Julia , who liked theatricals .
`` In different characters , '' added Maud , thinking how well her long yellow hair would look as a mermaid .
`` And all sing as we go under the bridges , '' put in Annie , who adored music .
`` What a pity the boats ca n't dance , it would be so lovely to see them waltzing round like fireflies ! ''
said Belle , still longing for the ball .
`` A lot of fellows are coming up to spend the day with us , and we ought to have some sort of a picnic ; city folks think so much of such things , '' said Herbert the hospitable , for his house and barn were the favorite resorts of all his mates , and three gentle little sisters always came into his plans if possible .
`` I 've got two girl cousins coming , and they would like it , I guess .
I should any way , for Jack will go tagging after Grace and leave me to take care of them .
Let 's have a picnic , by all means , '' said lazy Fred , who thought all girls but one great plagues .
`` I should n't wonder if all our people liked that plan , and we might have a town picnic as we did once before .
Let every one ask his or her mother , and see if we ca n't do it , '' suggested Annie , eager for a whole day of merry-making .
The door-step party was late in breaking up that night ; and if half the plans proposed had been carried out , that town would have been considered a large lunatic asylum .
Wiser heads remodelled the wild plans , however , and more skilful hands lent their aid , so that only the possible was attempted , though the older folks had bright ideas as well as the boys and girls , and gave the finishing touches to the affair .
The Fourth was a fine day , with a fresh air , cloudless sky , and no dust .
The town was early astir , though neither sunrise cannon nor the Antiques and Horribles disturbed the dawn with their clamor .
The bells rang merrily , and at eight all flocked to the Town Hall to hear the Declaration of Independence read by the good and great man of the town , whose own wise and noble words go echoing round the world , teaching the same lesson of justice , truth , and courage as that immortal protest .
An Ode by the master of the revels was sung , then every one shouted America with hearty good-will , and before the echoes had fairly died away , the crowd streamed forth to the river-side ; for these energetic people were bound to make a day of it .
At nine the races began , and both green banks of the stream were lined with gay groups eagerly watching `` our boys '' as they swept by in wherries , paddled in canoes , or splashed and tumbled in and out of their tubs amid shouts of laughter from the spectators .
The older fellows did the scientific , and their prizes were duly awarded by the judges .
But our young party had their share of fun , and Fred and Herbert , who were chums in everything , won the race for the little flag yearly given to the lads for any success on the river .
Then the weary heroes loaded the big dory with a cargo of girls , and with the banner blowing gayly in the wind , rowed away to the wide meadow , where seven oaks cast shade enough to shelter a large picnic .
And a large one they had , for the mammas took kindly to the children 's suggestion , agreeing to club together in a social lunch , each contributing her stores , her family , and her guests , all being happy together in the free and easy way so pleasant and possible in summer weather .
A merry company they were , and it was a comfortable sight to see the tired fathers lying in the shade , while the housewives forgot their cares for a day , the young folks made table-setting and dishwashing a joke by doing it together , and the children frolicked to their hearts ' content .
Even the babies were trundled to the party by proud mammas and took naps in their carriages , or held receptions for admiring friends and neighbors with infantile dignity .
A social , sensible time , and when sunset came all turned homeward to make ready for the evening festivities .
It was vaguely rumored that the pretty rustic bridge was to be illuminated , for the older people had taken up the idea and had their surprises ready as well as the young folks .
A band was stationed by the river-side , a pretty villa on the hill blazed out with lines of light , and elms and apple-trees bore red and golden lanterns , like glorified fruit .
The clerk of the weather was evidently interested in this novel entertainment , for the evening was windless , dark , and cool , so the arch of light that spanned the shadowy river shone splendidly .
Fireworks soared up from the hill-top beyond , fireflies lent their dancing sparks to illuminate the meadows , and the three bridges were laden with the crowds , who greeted each new surprise with cries of admiration .
Higher up the stream , where two branches met about a rocky island , elves seemed gathering for a summer revel .
From all the landings that lined either shore brilliant boats glided to the rendezvous ; some hung with luminous globes of blue and silver , some with lanterns fiery-red , flower-shaped , golden , green , or variegated , as if a rainbow were festooned about the viewless masts .
Up and down they flashed , stealing out from dusky nooks and floating in their own radiance , as they went to join the procession that wound about the island like a splendid sea-serpent uncoiling itself from sleep and darkness .
`` Is n't it beautiful ? ''
cried even the soberest of the townsfolk , as all turned their backs on the shining bridge and bursting rockets to admire the new spectacle , which was finer than its most enthusiastic advocate expected .
All felt proud of their success as they looked , and even the children forgot to shout while watching the pretty pageant that presently came floating by , with music , light , and half-seen figures so charming , grotesque , or romantic that the illusion was complete .
First , a boat so covered with green boughs and twinkling yellow sparks that it looked like a floating island by starlight or a cage of singing-birds , for music came from within and fresh voices , led by Annie , sang sweetly as it sailed along .
Then a gondola of lovely Venetian ladies , rowed by the handsome artist , who was the pride of the town .
Next a canoe holding three dusky Indians , complete in war-paint , wampum , and tomahawks , paddled before the brilliant barge in which Cleopatra sat among red cushions , fanned by two pretty maids .
Julia 's black eyes sparkled as she glanced about her , feeling very queen-like with a golden crown on her head , all the jewelry she could muster on her neck and arms , and grandmother 's yellow brocade shining in the light .
Belle and Grace waved their peacock fans like two comely little Egyptian damsels , and the many-colored lanterns made a pretty picture of the whole .
A boatful of jolly little tars followed , with Tom Brown , Jr. , as skipper .
Then a party of fairies in white , with silver wings and wands , and lanterns like moon and stars .
Lou Pope , as Lady of the Lake , rowed her own boat , with Jack for a droll little Harper , twanging his zitter for want of a better instrument .
A black craft hung with lurid red lanterns and manned by a crew of ferocious pirates in scarlet shirts , dark beards , and an imposing display of pistols and cutlasses in their belts , not to mention the well-known skull and cross-bones on the flag flying at the masthead , produced a tremendous effect as the crew clashed their arms and roared the blood-thirstiest song they could find .
All the boys cheered that , and all the horses pranced as the pirates fired off their pistols , causing timid ladies to shriek , and prudent drivers to retire from the bridges with their carriage-loads of company .
A Chinese junk -LRB- or what was intended to look like one , but really resembled a mud-scow -RRB- , with a party of Mandarins , rich in fans , umbrellas , and pigtails , taking tea on board in a blaze of fantastic lanterns , delighted the children .
Then a long low boat came sliding by softly , lighted with pale blue lamps , and on a white couch lay `` Elaine , '' the letter in her hand , the golden hair streaming to her knees , and at her feet the dwarf sorrowfully rowing her down to Camelot .
Every one recognized that , for the master of the revels got it up as no one else could ; and Maud laughed to herself as the floating tableau went under the bridge , and she heard people rushing to the other side , waiting eagerly to see the `` lily maid '' appear and glide away , followed by applause , as one of the prettiest sights seen that night .
There were eighty boats in all , and as the glittering train wound along the curves of the river smooth and dark as a mirror , the effect was truly beautiful , especially when they all congregated below the illuminated bridge , making an island of many-colored light .
An enchanted island it seemed to lookers-on , for music and laughter came from it , and a strange mixture of picturesque faces and figures flitted to and fro .
Elaine sat up and ate bonbons with the faithful dwarf ; Ellen Douglas ducked the Harper ; the Chinamen invited Cleopatra to tea ; the mermaids pelted the pirates with water-lilies ; the gallant gondolier talked art with the Venetian ladies ; and the jolly little tars danced hornpipes , regardless of danger ; while the three Indians , Fred , Herbert , and Elly , whooped and tomahawked right and left as if on the war-path .
A regular Midsummer Night 's Dream frolic , which every one enjoyed heartily , while the band played patriotic airs , the pretty villa shone like a fairy palace , and the sky was full of dazzling meteors , falling stars , and long-tailed comets , as the rockets whizzed and blazed from the hill-tops .
Just as the fun was at its height the hurried clang of a bell startled the merry-makers , and a cry of `` Fire ! ''
came from the town , causing a general stampede .
`` Post-office all afire !
Men wanted ! ''
shouted a breathless boy , racing through the crowd toward the river .
Then great was the scampering , for shops stood thickly all about the post-office , and distracted merchants hastily collected their goods , while the firemen smashed windows , ran up and down ladders , broke in doors , and poured streams of water with generous impartiality over everybody and everything in the neighborhood , and the boys flew about , as if this unexpected display of fireworks suited them exactly .
Such noble exertions could not fail of success , and the fire was happily extinguished before the river was pumped dry .
Then every one went home , and , feeling the need of refreshment after their labors , had supper all over again , to the great delight of the young folks , who considered this a most appropriate finish to an exciting day .
But the merriest party of all was the one gathered on Fred 's piazza to eat cake and talk over the fun .
Such a droll group as they were .
The Indians were sadly dilapidated as to feathers and paint , beside being muddy to the knees , having landed in hot haste .
Poor Cleopatra had been drenched by the hose , but though very damp still sparkled with unextinguishable gayety .
Elaine had tied herself up in a big shawl , having lost her hat overboard .
Jack and Grace wore one waterproof , and Annie was hoarse with leading her choir of birds on the floating island .
Also several of the pirates wore their beards twisted round behind for the sake of convenience in eating .
All were wet , warm , and weary , but all rejoiced over the success of the day 's delights , and it was unanimously agreed that this had been the jolliest Fourth they had ever known .
IV .
SEVEN BLACK CATS .
They all came uninvited , they all led eventful lives , and all died tragical deaths ; so out of the long list of cats whom I have loved and lost , these seven are the most interesting and memorable .
I have no prejudice against color , but it so happened that our pussies were usually gray or maltese .
One white one , who would live in the coal-bin , was a failure , and we never repeated the experiment .
Black cats had not been offered us , so we had no experience of them till number one came to us in this wise .
Sitting at my window , I saw a very handsome puss come walking down the street in the most composed and dignified manner .
I watched him with interest , wondering where he was going .
Pausing now and then , he examined the houses as he passed , as if looking for a particular number , till , coming to our gate , he pushed it open , and walked in .
Straight up to the door he came , and finding it shut sat down to wait till some one opened it for him .
Much amused , I went at once , and he came directly in , after a long stare at me , and a few wavings of his plumy tail .
It was evidently the right place , and , following me into the parlor , he perched himself on the rug , blinked at the fire , looked round the room , washed his face , and then , lying down in a comfortable sprawl , he burst into a cheerful purr , as if to say , -- `` It 's all right ; the place suits me , and I 'm going to stay . ''
His coolness amused me very much , and his beauty made me glad to keep him .
He was not a common cat , but , as we afterward discovered , a Russian puss .
His fur was very long , black , and glossy as satin ; his tail like a graceful plume , and his eyes as round and yellow as two little moons .
His paws were very dainty , and white socks and gloves , with a neat collar and shirt-bosom , gave him the appearance of an elegant young beau , in full evening dress .
His face was white , with black hair parted in the middle ; and whiskers , fiercely curled up at the end , gave him a martial look .
Every one admired him , and a vainer puss never caught a mouse .
If he saw us looking at him , he instantly took an attitude ; gazed pensively at the fire , as if unconscious of our praises ; crouched like a tiger about to spring , and glared , and beat the floor with his tail ; or lay luxuriously outstretched , rolling up his yellow eyes with a sentimental expression that was very funny .
We named him the Czar , and no tyrannical emperor of Russia ever carried greater desolation and terror to the souls of his serfs , than this royal cat did to the hearts and homes of the rats and mice over whom he ruled .
The dear little mice who used to come out to play so confidingly in my room , live in my best bonnet-box , and bring up their interesting young families in the storeroom , now fell an easy prey to the Czar , who made nothing of catching half a dozen a day .
Brazen-faced old rats , gray in sin , who used to walk boldly in and out of the front door , ravage our closets , and racket about the walls by night , now paused in their revels , and felt that their day was over .
Czar did not know what fear was , and flew at the biggest , fiercest rat that dared to show his long tail on the premises .
He fought many a gallant fight , and slew his thousands , always bringing his dead foe to display him to us , and receive our thanks .
It was sometimes rather startling to find a large rat reposing in the middle of your parlor ; not always agreeable to have an excited cat bounce into your lap , lugging a half-dead rat in his mouth ; or to have visitors received by the Czar , tossing a mouse on the door-steps , like a playful child with its cup and ball .
He was not fond of petting , but allowed one or two honored beings to cuddle him .
My work-basket was his favorite bed , for a certain fat cushion suited him for a pillow , and , having coolly pulled out all the pins , the rascal would lay his handsome head on the red mound , and wink at me with an irresistibly saucy expression that made it impossible to scold .
All summer we enjoyed his pranks and admired his manly virtues ; but in the winter we lost him , for , alas !
he found his victor in the end , and fell a victim to his own rash daring .
One morning after a heavy snow-fall , Czar went out to take a turn up and down the path .
As he sat with his back to the gate , meditatively watching some doves on the shed-roof , a big bull-dog entered the yard , and basely attacked him in the rear .
Taken by surprise , the dear fellow did his best , and hit out bravely , till he was dragged into the deep snow where he could not fight , and there so cruelly maltreated that he would have been murdered outright , if I had not gone to the rescue .
Catching up a broom , I belabored the dog so energetically that he was forced to turn from the poor Czar to me .
What would have become of me I do n't know , for the dog was in a rage , and evidently meditating a grab at my ankles , when his master appeared and ordered him off .
Never was a boy better scolded than that one , for I poured forth vials of wrath upon his head as I took up my bleeding pet , and pointed to his wounds as indignantly as Antony did to Csar 's .
The boy fled affrighted , and I bore my poor Czar in to die .
All day he lay on his cushion , patient and quiet , with his torn neck tied up in a soft bandage , a saucer of cream close by , and an afflicted mistress to tend and stroke him with tender lamentations .
We had company in the evening , and my interesting patient was put into another room .
Once , in the midst of conversation , I thought I heard a plaintive mew , but could not go to see , and soon forgot all about it ; but when the guests left , my heart was rent by finding Czar stretched out before the door quite dead .
Feeling death approach , he had crept to say good-by , and with a farewell mew had died before the closed door , a brave and faithful cat to the end .
He was buried with great pomp , and before his grave was green , little Blot came to take his place , though she never filled it .
Blot 's career was a sad and brief one .
Misfortune marked her for its own , and life was one too many for her .
I saw some boys pelting a wretched object with mud .
I delivered a lecture on cruelty to animals , confiscated the victim , and , wrapping her in a newspaper , bore the muddy little beast away in triumph .
Being washed and dried , she turned out a thin black kit , with dirty blue bows tied in her ears .
As I do n't approve of ear-rings , I took hers out , and tried to fatten her up , for she was a forlorn creature at first .
But Blot would not grow plump .
Her early wrongs preyed upon her , and she remained a thin , timid , melancholy little cat all her days .
I could not win her confidence .
She had lost her faith in mankind , and I do n't blame her .
She always hid in corners , quaked when I touched her , took her food by stealth , and sat in a forlorn bunch in cold nooks , down cellar or behind the gate , mewing despondently to herself , as if her woes must find a vent .
She would not be easy and comfortable .
No cushion could allure , no soft beguilements win her to purr , no dainty fare fill out her rusty coat , no warmth or kindness banish the scared look from her sad green eyes , no ball or spool lure her to play , or cause her to wag her mortified thin tail with joy .
Poor , dear little Blot !
She was a pathetic spectacle , and her end was quite in keeping with the rest of her hard fate .
Trying one day to make her come and be cuddled , she retreated to the hearth , and when I pursued her , meaning to catch and pet her , she took a distracted skip right into a bed of hot coals .
One wild howl , and another still more distracted skip brought her out again , to writhe in agony with four burnt paws and a singed skin .
`` We must put the little sufferer out of her pain , '' said a strong-minded friend ; and quenched little Blot 's life and suffering together in a pail of water .
I laid her out sweetly in a nice box , with a doll 's blanket folded round her , and , bidding the poor dear a long farewell , confided her to old MacCarty for burial .
He was my sexton , and I could trust him to inter my darlings decently , and not toss them disrespectfully into a dirt-cart or over a bridge .
My dear Mother Bunch was an entire contrast to Blot .
Such a fat , cosey old mamma you never saw , and her first appearance was so funny , I never think of her without laughing .
In our back kitchen was an old sideboard , with two little doors in the lower part .
Some bits of carpet were kept there , but we never expected to let that small mansion till , opening the door one day , I found Mrs. Bunch and her young family comfortably settled .
I had never seen this mild black cat before , and I fancy no one had ever seen her three roly-poly , jet-black kits .
Such a confiding puss I never met , for when I started back , surprised , Mrs. Bunch merely looked at me with an insinuating purr , and began to pick at my carpet , as if to say , -- `` The house suited me ; I 'll take it , and pay rent by allowing you to admire and pet my lovely babies . ''
I never thought of turning her out , and there she remained for some months , with her children growing up around her , all as fat and funny , black and amiable , as herself .
Three jollier kits were never born , and a more devoted mother never lived .
I put her name on the door of her house , and they lived on most comfortably together , even after they grew too big for their accommodations , and tails and legs hung out after the family had retired .
I really did hope they would escape the doom that seemed to pursue my cats , but they did not , for all came to grief in different ways .
Cuddle Bunch had a fit , and fell out of the window , killing herself instantly .
Othello , her brother , was shot by a bad boy , who fired pistols at all the cats in the neighborhood , as good practice for future gunning expeditions .
Little Purr was caught in a trap , set for a woodchuck , and so hurt she had to be gently chloroformed out of life .
Mother Bunch still remained , and often used to go and sit sadly under the tree where her infants were buried , -- an afflicted , yet resigned parent .
Her health declined , but we never had the heart to send her away , and it would n't have done any good if we had tried .
We did it once , and it was a dead failure .
At one time the four cats were so wearing that my honored father , who did not appreciate the dears , resolved to clear the house of the whole family ; so he packed them in a basket , and carried them `` over the hills and far away , '' like the `` Babes in the Wood . ''
Coming to a lonely spot , he let them out , and returned home , much relieved in mind .
Judge of his amazement when the first thing he saw was Mrs. Bunch and her children , sitting on the steps resting after their run home .
We all laughed at the old gentleman so that he left them in peace , and even when the mamma alone remained , feeble and useless , her bereavement made her sacred .
When we shut up the house , and went to the city for the winter , we gave Mother Bunch to the care of a kind neighbor , who promised to guard her faithfully .
Returning in the spring , one of my first questions was , -- `` How is old Pussy ? ''
Great was my anguish when my neighbor told me that she was no more .
It seems the dear thing pined for her old home , and kept returning to it in spite of age or bad weather .
Several times she was taken back when she ran away , but at last they were tired of fussing over her , and let her go .
A storm came on , and when they went to see what had become of her , they found her frozen , in the old sideboard , where I first discovered her with her kits about her .
As a delicate attention to me , Mrs. Bunch 's skin was preserved , and presented when the tale was told .
I kept it some time , but the next Christmas I made it into muffs for several dolls , who were sent me to dress ; and very nice little muffs the pretty black fur made , lined with cherry silk , and finished off with tiny tassels .
I loved the dear old puss , but I knew the moths would get her skin if I kept it , and preferred to rejoice the hearts of several small friends with dolls in full winter costume .
I am sure Mrs. Bunch would have agreed with me , and not felt that I treated her remains with disrespect .
The last of my cats was the blackest of all , and such a wild thing we called him the Imp .
He tumbled into the garret one day through a broken scuttle , and took possession of the house from that time forth , acting as if bewitched .
He got into the furnace pipes , but could not get out , and kept me up one whole night , giving him air and light , food and comfort , through a little hole in the floor , while waiting for a carpenter to come and saw him out .
He got a sad pinch in his tail , which made it crooked forever after .
He fell into the soft-soap barrel , and was fished out a deplorable spectacle .
He was half strangled by a fine collar we put on him , and was found hanging by it on a peg .
People sat down on him , for he would lie in chairs .
No one loved him much , for he was not amiable in temper , but bit and scratched if touched , worried the bows off our slippers in his play , and if we did not attend to him at once , he complained in the most tremendous bass growl I ever heard .
He was not beautiful , but very impressive ; being big , without a white hair on him .
One eye was blue and one green , and the green one was always half shut , as if he was winking at you , which gave him a rowdy air comical to see .
Then he swaggered in his walk , never turned out for any one , and if offended fell into rages fit to daunt the bravest soul .
Yes , the Imp was truly an awful animal ; and when a mischievous cousin of ours told us he wanted a black cat , without a single white hair on it , to win a wager with , we at once offered ours .
It seems that sailors are so superstitious they will not sail in a ship with a black cat ; and this rogue of a cousin was going to send puss off on a voyage , unknown to any one but the friend who took him , and when the trip was safely over , he was to be produced as a triumphant proof of the folly of the nautical superstition .
So the Imp was delivered to his new master , and sailed away packed up in an old fishing-basket , with his head poked out of a hole in the cover .
We waited anxiously to hear how the joke ended ; but unfortunately the passage was very rough , his guardian too ill to keep him safe and quiet , so the irrepressible fellow escaped from prison , and betrayed himself by growling dismally , as he went lurching across the deck to the great dismay of the sailors .
They chased , caught , and tossed the poor Imp overboard without loss of time .
And when the joke came out , they had the best of it , for the weather happened to improve , and the rest of the voyage was prosperous .
So , of course , they laid it all to the loss of the cat , and were more fixed in their belief than ever .
We were sorry that poor old Imp met so sad a fate , but did not mourn him long , for he had not won our hearts as some of our other pets had .
He was the last of the seven black cats , and we never had another ; for I really did feel as if there was something uncanny about them after my tragical experiences with Czar , Blot , Mother Bunch 's family , and the martyred Imp .
V. ROSA 'S TALE .
`` Now , I believe every one has had a Christmas present and a good time .
Nobody has been forgotten , not even the cat , '' said Mrs. Ward to her daughter , as she looked at Pobbylinda , purring on the rug , with a new ribbon round her neck and the remains of a chicken bone between her paws .
It was very late , for the Christmas-tree was stripped , the little folks abed , the baskets and bundles left at poor neighbors ' doors , and everything ready for the happy day which would begin as the clock struck twelve .
They were resting after their labors , while the yule log burned down ; but the mother 's words reminded Belinda of one good friend who had received no gift that night .
`` We 've forgotten Rosa !
Her mistress is away , but she shall have a present nevertheless .
Late as it is , she will like some apples and cake and a Merry Christmas from the family . ''
Belinda jumped up as she spoke , and , having collected such remnants of the feast as a horse would relish , she put on her hood , lighted a lantern , and trotted off to the barn .
As she opened the door of the loose box in which Rosa was kept , she saw her eyes shining in the dark as she lifted her head with a startled air .
Then , recognizing a friend , she rose and came rustling through the straw to greet her late visitor .
She was evidently much pleased with the attention , and rubbed her nose against Miss Belinda gratefully , but seemed rather dainty , and poked over the contents of the basket , as if a little suspicious , though apples were her favorite treat .
Knowing that she would enjoy the little feast more if she had company while she ate it , for Rosa was a very social beast , Miss Belinda hung up the lantern , and , sitting down on an inverted bucket , watched her as she munched contentedly .
`` Now really , '' said Miss Belinda , when telling her story afterwards , `` I am not sure whether I took a nap and dreamed what follows , or whether it actually happened , for strange things do occur at Christmas time , as every one knows .
`` As I sat there the town clock struck twelve , and the sound reminded me of the legend which affirms that all dumb animals are endowed with speech for one hour after midnight on Christmas eve , in memory of the animals about the manger when the blessed Child was born . '' '
I wish the pretty fancy was a fact , and our Rosa could speak , if only for an hour , because I am sure she has an interesting history , and I long to know it . '
`` I said this aloud , and to my utter amazement the bay mare stopped eating , fixed her intelligent eyes upon my face , and answered in a language I understood perfectly well , -- '' ` You shall know it , for whether the legend is true or not I feel as if I could confide in you and tell you all I feel .
I was lying awake listening to the fun in the house , thinking of my dear mistress over the sea and feeling very sad , for I heard you say I was to be sold .
That nearly broke my heart , for no one has ever been so kind to me as Miss Merry , and nowhere shall I be taken care of , nursed , and loved as I have been since she bought me .
I know I am getting old , and stiff in the knees , and my forefoot is lame , and sometimes I 'm cross when my shoulder aches ; but I do try to be a patient , grateful beast .
I 've got fat with good living , my work is not hard , I dearly love to carry those who have done so much for me , and I 'll tug for them till I die in harness , if they will only keep me . '
`` I was so astonished at this address that I tumbled off the pail , and sat among the straw staring up at Rosa , as dumb as if I had lost the power she had gained .
She seemed to enjoy my surprise , and added to it by letting me hear a genuine horse laugh , hearty , shrill , and clear , as she shook her pretty head , and went on talking rapidly in the language which I now perceived to be a mixture of English and the peculiar dialect of the horse-country Gulliver visited . ''
` Thank you for remembering me to-night , and in return for the goodies you bring I 'll tell my story as fast as I can , for I have often longed to recount the trials and triumphs of my life .
Miss Merry came last Christmas eve to bring me sugar , and I wanted to speak , but it was too early and I could not say a word , though my heart was full . '
`` Rosa paused an instant , and her fine eyes dimmed as if with tender tears at the recollection of the happy year which had followed the day she was bought from the drudgery of a livery-stable to be a lady 's pet .
I stroked her neck as she stooped to sniff affectionately at my hood , and said eagerly , -- '' ` Tell away , dear , I 'm full of interest , and understand every word you say . '
`` Thus encouraged , Rosa threw up her head , and began with an air of pride which plainly proved , what we had always suspected , that she belonged to a good family . ''
` My father was a famous racer , and I am very like him ; the same color , spirit , and grace , and but for the cruelty of man I might have been as renowned as he .
I was a very happy colt , petted by my master , tamed by love , and never struck a blow while he lived .
I gained one race for him , and promised so well that when he died I brought a great price .
I mourned for him , but was glad to be sent to my new owner 's racing-stable and made much of , for people predicted that I should be another Goldsmith Maid or Flora Temple .
Ah , how ambitious and proud I was in those days !
Vain of my good blood , my speed , and my beauty ; for indeed I was handsome then , though you may find it hard to believe now . '
And Rosa sighed regretfully as she stole a look at me , and took the attitude which showed to advantage the fine lines about her head and neck . '' '
I do not find it hard , for we have always said you had splendid points about you .
Miss Merry saw them , though you were a skeleton , when she bought you ; so did the skilful Cornish blacksmith when he shod you .
And it is easy to see that you belong to a good family by the way you hold your head without a check-rein and carry your tail like a plume , ' I said , with a look of admiration which comforted her as much as if she had been a passe belle . '' '
I must hurry over this part of my story , because , though brilliant , it was very brief , and ended in a way which made it the bitterest portion of my life , ' continued Rosa . '
I won several races , and great fame was predicted for me .
You may guess how high my reputation was when I tell you that before my last fatal trial thousands were bet on me , and my rival trembled in his shoes .
I was full of spirit , eager to show my speed and sure of success .
Alas , how little I knew of the wickedness of human nature then , how dearly I bought the knowledge , and how it has changed my whole life !
You do not know much about such matters , of course , and I wo n't digress to tell you all the tricks of the trade ; only beware of jockeys and never bet . '' '
I was kept carefully out of every one 's way for weeks , and only taken out for exercise by my trainer .
Poor Bill !
I was fond of him , and he was so good to me that I never have forgotten him , though he broke his neck years ago .
A few nights before the great race , as I was getting a good sleep , carefully tucked away in my roomy stall , some one stole in and gave me a warm mash .
It was dark , I was half awake , and I ate it like a fool , though I knew by instinct that it was not Bill who fed it to me .
I was a confiding creature then , and as all sorts of queer things had been done to prepare me I thought it was all right .
But it was not , and that deceit has caused me to be suspicious about my food ever since , for the mash was dosed in some way ; it made me very ill , and my enemies nearly triumphed , thanks to this cowardly trick . ''
` Bill worked over me day and night , that I might be fit to run .
I did my best to seem well and gay , but there was not time for me to regain my lost strength and spirit , and pride alone kept me up .
`` I 'll win for my master if I die in doing it , '' I said to myself , and when the hour came pranced to my place trying to look as well as ever , though my heart was very heavy and I trembled with excitement .
`` Courage , my lass , and we 'll beat in spite of their black tricks , '' whispered Bill , as he sprung to his place . '' '
I lost the first heat , but won the second , and the sound of the cheering gave me strength to walk away without staggering , though my legs shook under me .
What a splendid minute that was when , encouraged and refreshed by my faithful Bill , I came on the track again !
I knew my enemies began to fear , for I had borne myself so bravely they fancied I was quite well , and now , excited by that first success , I was mad with impatience to be off and cover myself with glory . '
`` Rosa looked as if the ` splendid minute ' had come again , for she arched her neck , opened wide her red nostrils , and pawed the straw with one little foot , while her eyes shone with sudden fire , and her ears were pricked up as if to catch again the shouts she heard that day . '' '
I wish I had been there to see you ! '
I exclaimed , quite carried away by her ardor . '' '
I wish you had , for I won , I won !
The big black horse did his best , but I had vowed to win or die , and I kept my word , for I beat him by a head , and then dropped as if dead .
I might as well have died then , people thought , for the poison , the exertion , and the fall ruined me for a racer .
My master cared no more for me , and would have had me shot if Bill had not saved my life .
I was pronounced good for nothing , and he bought me cheap .
I was lame and useless for a long time , but his patient care did wonders , and just as I was able to be of use to him he was killed . '' '
A gentleman in want of a saddle-horse purchased me because my easy gait and quiet temper suited him ; for I was meek enough now , and my size fitted me to carry his delicate daughter . ''
` For more than a year I served little Miss Alice , rejoicing to see how rosy her pale cheeks became , how upright her feeble figure grew , thanks to the hours spent with me ; for my canter rocked her as gently as if she were in a cradle , and fresh air was the medicine she needed .
She often said she owed her life to me , and I liked to think so , for she made my life a very easy one . ''
` But somehow my good times never lasted long , and when Miss Alice went West I was sold .
I had been so well treated that I looked as handsome and gay as ever , though my shoulder never was strong again , and I often had despondent moods , longing for the excitement of the race-course with the instinct of my kind ; so I was glad when , attracted by my spirit and beauty , a young army officer bought me and I went to the war .
Ah !
you never guessed that , did you ?
Yes , I did my part gallantly and saved my master 's life more than once .
You have observed how martial music delights me , but you do n't know that it is because it reminds me of the proudest hour of my life .
I 've told you about the saddest ; let me relate this also , and give me a pat for the brave action which won my master his promotion , though I got no praise for my part of the achievement . ''
` In one of the hottest battles my captain was ordered to lead his men to a most perilous exploit .
They hesitated , so did he ; for it must cost many lives , and , brave as they were , they paused an instant .
But I settled the point , for I was wild with the sound of drums , the smell of powder , the excitement of the hour , and , finding myself sharply reined in , I rebelled , took the bit between my teeth , and dashed straight away into the midst of the fight , spite of all my rider could do .
The men thought their captain led them on , and with a cheer they followed , carrying all before them . ''
` What happened just after that I never could remember , except that I got a wound here in my neck and a cut on my flank ; the scar is there still , and I 'm proud of it , though buyers always consider it a blemish .
But when the battle was won my master was promoted on the field , and I carried him up to the general as he sat among his officers under the torn flags . ''
` Both of us were weary and wounded , both were full of pride at what we had done ; but he got all the praise and the honor , I only a careless word and a better supper than usual . '' '
I thought no one knew what I had done , and resented the ingratitude of your race ; for it was the horse , not the man , who led that forlorn hope , and I did think I should have a rosette at least , when others got stars and bars for far less dangerous deeds .
Never mind , my master knew the truth , and thanked me for my help by keeping me always with him till the sad day when he was shot in a skirmish , and lay for hours with none to watch and mourn over him but his faithful horse . ''
` Then I knew how much he loved and thanked me , for his hand stroked me while it had the strength , his eye turned to me till it grew too dim for seeing , and when help came , among the last words he whispered to a comrade were these , `` Be kind to Rosa and send her safely home ; she has earned her rest . '' '' '
I had earned it , but I did not get it , for when I was sent home the old mother 's heart was broken at the loss of her son , and she did not live long to cherish me .
Then my hard times began , for my next owner was a fast young man , who ill used me in many ways , till the spirit of my father rose within me , and I gave my brutal master a grand runaway and smash-up . ''
` To tame me down , I was sold for a car horse ; and that almost killed me , for it was dreadful drudgery to tug , day after day , over the hard pavement with heavy loads behind me , uncongenial companions beside me , and no affection to cheer my life . '' '
I have often longed to ask why Mr. Bergh does not try to prevent such crowds from piling into those cars ; and now I beg you to do what you can to stop such an unmerciful abuse . ''
` In snow-storms it was awful , and more than one of my mates dropped dead with overwork and discouragement .
I used to wish I could do the same , for my poor feet , badly shod , became so lame I could hardly walk at times , and the constant strain on the up grades brought back the old trouble in my shoulder worse than ever . ''
` Why they did not kill me I do n't know , for I was a miserable creature then ; but there must be something attractive about me , I fancy , for people always seem to think me worth saving .
What can it be , ma'am ? ' ''
` Now , Rosa , do n't be affected ; you know you are a very engaging little animal , and if you live to be forty will still have certain pretty ways about you , that win the hearts of women , if not of men .
They see your weak points , and take a money view of the case ; but we sympathize with your afflictions , are amused with your coquettish airs , and like your affectionate nature .
Now hurry up and finish , for I find it a trifle cold out here . '
`` I laughed as I spoke , for Rosa eyed me with a sidelong glance and gently waved the docked tail , which was her delight ; for the sly thing liked to be flattered and was as fond of compliments as a girl . ''
` Many thanks .
I will come now to the most interesting portion of my narrative .
As I was saying , instead of knocking me on the head I was packed off to New Hampshire , and had a fine rest among the green hills , with a dozen or so of weary friends .
It was during this holiday that I acquired the love of nature which Miss Merry detected and liked in me , when she found me ready to study sunsets with her , to admire new landscapes , and enjoy bright summer weather . ''
` In the autumn a livery-stable keeper bought me , and through the winter fed me up till I was quite presentable in the spring .
It was a small town , but through the summer many city people visited there , so I was kept on the trot while the season lasted , because ladies could drive me .
You , Miss Belinda , were one of the ladies , and I never shall forget , though I have long ago forgiven it , how you laughed at my queer gait the day you hired me . ''
` My tender feet and stiff knees made me tread very gingerly , and amble along with short mincing steps , which contrasted oddly , I know , with my proudly waving tail and high-carried head .
You liked me nevertheless , because I did n't rattle you down the steep hills , was not afraid of locomotives , and stood patiently while you gathered flowers and enjoyed the lovely prospects . '' '
I have always felt a regard for you since you did not whip me , and admired my eyes , which , I may say without vanity , have always been considered unusually fine .
But no one ever won my whole heart like Miss Merry , and I never shall forget the happy day when she came to the stable to order a saddle-horse .
Her cheery voice made me prick up my ears , and when she said , after looking at several showy beasts , `` No , they do n't suit me .
This one now has the right air ; can I ride her ? ''
my heart danced within me and I looked round with a whinny of delight .
She understood my welcome , and came right up to me , patted me , peered into my face , rubbed my nose , and looked at my feet with an air of interest and sympathy , that made me feel as if I 'd like to carry her round the world . ''
` Ah , what rides we had after that !
What happy hours trotting gayly through the green woods , galloping over the breezy hills , or pacing slowly along quiet lanes , where I often lunched luxuriously on clover-tops , while Miss Merry took a sketch of some picturesque bit with me in the foreground . '' '
I liked that , and we had long chats at such times , for she seemed to understand me perfectly .
She was never frightened when I danced for pleasure on the soft turf , never chid me when I snatched a bite from the young trees as we passed through sylvan ways , never thought it a trouble to let me wet my tired feet in babbling brooks , or to dismount and take out the stones that plagued me . ''
` Then how well she rode !
So firm yet light a seat , so steady a hand , so agile a foot to spring on and off , and such infectious spirits , that no matter how despondent or cross I might be , in five minutes I felt gay and young again when dear Miss Merry was on my back . '
`` Here Rosa gave a frisk that sent the straw flying , and made me shrink into a corner , while she pranced about the box with a neigh which waked the big brown colt next door , and set poor Buttercup to lowing for her calf , the loss of which she had forgotten for a little while in sleep . ''
` Ah , Miss Merry never ran away from me !
She knew my heels were to be trusted , and she let me caper as I would , glad to see me lively .
Never mind , Miss Belinda , come out and I 'll be sober , as befits my years , ' laughed Rosa , composing herself , and adding , so like a woman that I could not help smiling in the dark , -- '' ` When I say `` years '' I beg you to understand that I am not as old as that base man declared , but just in the prime of life for a horse .
Hard usage has made me seem old before my time , and I am good for years of service yet . ' ''
` Few people have been through as much as you have , Rosa , and you certainly have earned the right to rest , ' I said consolingly , for her little whims and vanities amused me much . ''
` You know what happened next , ' she continued ; ` but I must seize this opportunity to express my thanks for all the kindness I 've received since Miss Merry bought me , in spite of the ridicule and dissuasion of all her friends . '' '
I know I did n't look like a good bargain , for I was very thin and lame and shabby ; but she saw and loved the willing spirit in me , pitied my hard lot , and felt that it would be a good deed to buy me even if she never got much work out of me . '' '
I shall always remember that , and whatever happens to me hereafter , I never shall be as proud again as I was the day she put my new saddle and bridle on , and I was led out , sleek , plump , and handsome , with blue rosettes at my ears , my tail cut in the English style , and on my back Miss Merry in her London hat and habit , all ready to head a cavalcade of eighteen horsemen and horsewomen .
We were the most perfect pair of all , and when the troop caracoled down the wide street six abreast , my head was the highest , my rider the straightest , and our two hearts the friendliest in all the goodly company . ''
` Nor is it pride and love alone that binds me to her , it is gratitude as well , for did not she often bathe my feet herself , rub me down , water me , blanket me , and daily come to see me when I was here alone for weeks in the winter time ?
Did n't she study horses ' feet and shoes , that I might be cured if possible ?
Did n't she write to the famous friend of my race for advice , and drive me seven miles to get a good smith to shoe me well ?
Have not my poor contracted feet grown much better , thanks to the weeks of rest without shoes which she gave me ?
Am I not fat and handsome , and , barring the stiff knees , a very presentable horse ?
If I am , it is all owing to her ; and for that reason I want to live and die in her service . '' '
She does n't want to sell me , and only bade you do it because you did n't want the care of me while she is gone .
Dear Miss Belinda , please keep me !
I 'll eat as little as I can .
I wo n't ask for a new blanket , though your old army one is very thin and shabby .
I 'll trot for you all winter , and try not to show it if I am lame .
I 'll do anything a horse can , no matter how humble , to earn my living , only do n't , pray do n't send me away among strangers who have neither interest nor pity for me ! '
`` Rosa had spoken rapidly , feeling that her plea must be made now or never , for before another Christmas she might be far away and speech of no use to win her wish .
I was much touched , though she was only a horse ; for she was looking earnestly at me as she spoke , and made the last words very eloquent by preparing to bend her stiff knees and lie down at my feet .
I stopped her , and answered , with an arm about her neck and her soft nose in my hand , -- '' ` You shall not be sold , Rosa !
you shall go and board at Mr. Town 's great stable , where you will have pleasant society among the eighty horses who usually pass the winter there .
Your shoes shall be taken off , and you shall rest till March at least .
The best care will be taken of you , dear , and I will come and see you ; and in the spring you shall return to us , even if Miss Merry is not here to welcome you . ' ''
` Thanks , many , many thanks !
But I wish I could do something to earn my board .
I hate to be idle , though rest is delicious .
Is there nothing I can do to repay you , Miss Belinda ?
Please answer quickly , for I know the hour is almost over , ' cried Rosa , stamping with anxiety ; for , like all her sex , she wanted the last word . ''
` Yes , you can , ' I cried , as a sudden idea popped into my head .
` I 'll write down what you have told me , and send the little story to a certain paper I know of , and the money I get for it will pay your board .
So rest in peace , my dear ; you will have earned your living , and may feel that your debt is paid . '
`` Before she could reply the clock struck one , and a long sigh of satisfaction was all the response in her power .
But we understood each other now , and , cutting a lock from her mane for Miss Merry , I gave Rosa a farewell caress and went away , wondering if I had made it all up , or if she had really broken a year 's silence and freed her mind .
`` However that may be , here is the tale , and the sequel to it is , that the bay mare has really gone to board at a first-class stable , '' concluded Miss Belinda .
`` I call occasionally and leave my card in the shape of an apple , finding Madam Rosa living like an independent lady , with her large box and private yard on the sunny side of the barn , a kind ostler to wait upon her , and much genteel society from the city when she is inclined for company .
`` What more could any reasonable horse desire ? ''
VI .
LUNCH .
`` Sister Jerusha , it really does wear upon me to see those dear boys eat such bad pies and stuff day after day when they ought to have good wholesome things for lunch .
I actually ache to go and give each one of 'em a nice piece of bread-and-butter or one of our big cookies , '' said kind Miss Mehitable Plummer , taking up her knitting after a long look at the swarm of boys pouring out of the grammar school opposite , to lark about the yard , sit on the posts , or dive into a dingy little shop close by , where piles of greasy tarts and cakes lay in the window .
They would not have allured any but hungry school-boys , and ought to have been labelled Dyspepsia and Headache , so unwholesome were they .
Miss Jerusha looked up from her seventeenth patchwork quilt , and answered , with a sympathetic glance over the way , -- `` If we had enough to go round I 'd do it myself , and save these poor deluded dears from the bilious turns that will surely take them down before vacation comes .
That fat boy is as yellow as a lemon now , and no wonder , for I 've seen him eat half a dozen dreadful turnovers for one lunch . ''
Both old ladies shook their heads and sighed , for they led a very quiet life in the narrow house that stood end to the street , squeezed in between two stores , looking as out of place as the good spinsters would have done among the merry lads opposite .
Sitting at the front windows day after day , the old ladies had learned to enjoy watching the boys , who came and went , like bees to a hive , month by month .
They had their favorites , and beguiled many a long hour speculating on the looks , manners , and probable station of the lads .
One lame boy was Miss Jerusha 's pet , though she never spoke to him , and a tall bright-faced fellow , who rather lorded it over the rest , quite won Miss Hetty 's old heart by helping her across the street on a slippery day .
They longed to mend some of the shabby clothes , to cheer up the dull discouraged ones , advise the sickly , reprove the rude , and , most of all , feed those who persisted in buying lunch at the dirty bake-shop over the way .
The good souls were famous cooks , and had many books full of all manner of nice receipts , which they seldom used , as they lived simply and saw little company .
A certain kind of molasses cookie made by their honored mother , -- a renowned housewife in her time , -- and eaten by the sisters as children , had a peculiar charm for them .
A tin box was always kept full , though they only now and then nibbled one , and preferred to give them away to poor children , as they trotted to market each day .
Many a time had Miss Hetty felt sorely tempted to treat the boys , but was a little timid , for they were rough fellows , and she regarded them much as a benevolent tabby would a party of frisky puppies .
To-day the box was full of fresh cookies , crisp , brown , and sweet ; their spicy odor pervaded the room , and the china-closet door stood suggestively open .
Miss Hetty 's spectacles turned that way , then went back to the busy scene in the street , as if trying to get courage for the deed .
Something happened just then which decided her , and sealed the doom of the bilious tarts and their maker .
Several of the younger lads were playing marbles on the sidewalk , for Hop Scotch , Leap Frog , and friendly scuffles were going on in the yard , and no quiet spot could be found .
The fat boy sat on a post near by , and , having eaten his last turnover , fell to teasing the small fellows peacefully playing at his feet .
One was the shabby lame boy , who hopped to and fro with his crutch , munching a dry cracker , with now and then a trip to the pump to wash it down .
He seldom brought any lunch , and seemed to enjoy this poor treat so much that the big bright-faced chap tossed him a red apple as he came out of the yard to get his hat , thrown there by the mate he had been playfully thrashing .
The lame child eyed the pretty apple lovingly , and was preparing to take the first delicious bite , when the fat youth with a dexterous kick sent it flying into the middle of the street , where a passing wheel crushed it down into the mud .
`` It 's a shame !
He shall have something good !
The scamp ! ''
And with this somewhat confused exclamation Miss Hetty threw down her work , ran to the closet , then darted to the front door , embracing the tin box , as if the house was on fire and that contained her dearest treasures .
`` Sakes alive , what is the matter with sister ? ''
ejaculated Miss Jerusha , going to the window just in time to see the fat boy tumble off the post as the tall lad came to the rescue , while the cripple went hopping across the street in answer to a kindly quavering voice that called out to him , -- `` Come here , boy , and get a cookie , -- a dozen if you want 'em . ''
`` Sister 's done it at last ! ''
And , inspired by this heroic example , Miss Jerusha threw up the window , saying , as she beckoned to the avenger , -- `` You too , because you stood by that poor little boy .
Come right over and help yourself . ''
Charley Howe laughed at the indignant old ladies , but , being a gentleman , took off his hat and ran across to thank them for their interest in the fray .
Several other lads followed as irresistibly as flies to a honey-pot , for the tin box was suggestive of cake , and they waited for no invitation .
Miss Hetty was truly a noble yet a droll sight , as she stood there , a trim little old lady , with her cap-strings flying in the wind , her rosy old face shining with good-will , as she dealt out cookies with a lavish hand , and a kind word to all .
`` Here 's a nice big one for you , my dear .
I do n't know your name , but I do your face , and I like to see a big boy stand up for the little ones , '' she said , beaming at Charley as he came up .
`` Thank you , ma'am .
That 's a splendid one .
We do n't get anything so nice over there . ''
And Charley gratefully bolted the cake in three mouthfuls , having given away his own lunch .
`` No , indeed !
One of these is worth a dozen of those nasty pies .
I hate to see you eating them , and I do n't believe your mothers know how bad they are , '' said Miss Hetty , diving for another handful into the depths of the box , which was half empty already .
`` Wish you 'd teach old Peck how you make 'em .
We 'd be glad enough to buy these and let the cockroach pies alone , '' said Charley , accepting another and enjoying the fun , for half the fellows were watching the scene from over the way .
`` Cockroach pies !
You do n't mean to say ? ''
cried Miss Hetty , nearly dropping her load in her horror at the idea , for she had heard of fricasseed frogs and roasted locusts , and thought a new delicacy had been found .
`` We find 'em in the apple-sauce sometimes , and nails and bits of barrel in the cake , so some of us do n't patronize Peck , '' replied Charley ; and little Briggs the cripple added eagerly , -- `` I never do ; my mother wo n't let me . ''
`` He never has any money , that 's why , '' bawled Dickson , the fat boy , dodging behind the fence as he spoke .
`` Never you mind , sonny , you come here every day , and I 'll see that you have a good lunch .
Apples too , red ones , if you like them , with your cake , '' answered Miss Hetty , patting his head and sending an indignant glance across the street .
`` Cry-baby !
Molly-coddle !
Grandma 's darling ! ''
jeered Dickson , and then fled , for Charley fired a ball at him with such good aim it narrowly escaped his nose .
`` That boy will have the jaundice as sure as fate , and he deserves it , '' said Miss Hetty , sternly , as she dropped the lid on the now empty box ; for while she was talking the free-and-easy young gentlemen had been helping themselves .
`` Thank you very much , ma'am , for my cookie .
I wo n't forget to call to-morrow . ''
And little Briggs shook hands with as innocent a face as if his jacket pocket was not bulging in a most suspicious manner .
`` You 'll get your death a cold , Hetty , '' called Miss Jerusha , and , taking the hint , Charley promptly ended the visit .
`` Sheer off , fellows .
We are no end obliged , ma'am , and I 'll see that Briggs is n't put upon by sneaks . ''
Then the boys ran off , and the old lady retired to her parlor to sink into her easy-chair , as much excited by this little feat as if she had led a forlorn hope to storm a battery .
`` I 'll fill both those big tins to-morrow , and treat every one of the small boys , if I 'm spared , '' she panted , with a decided nod , as she settled her cap and composed her neat black skirts , with which the wind had taken liberties , as she stood on the steps .
`` I 'm not sure it is n't our duty to make and sell good , wholesome lunches to those boys .
We can afford to do it cheap , and it would n't be much trouble .
Just put the long table across the front entry for half an hour every day , and let them come and get a bun , a cookie , or a buttered biscuit .
It could be done , sister , '' said Miss Jerusha , longing to distinguish herself in some way also .
`` It shall be done , sister ! ''
And Miss Hetty made up her mind at that moment to devote some of her time and skill to rescuing those blessed boys from the unprincipled Peck and his cockroach pies .
It was pleasant , as well as droll , to see how heartily the good souls threw themselves into the new enterprise , how bravely they kept each other up when courage showed signs of failing , and how rapidly they became convinced that it was a duty to provide better food for the future defenders and rulers of their native land .
`` You ca n't expect the dears to study with clear heads if they are not fed properly , and half the women in the world never think that what goes into children 's stomachs affects their brains , '' declared Miss Hetty , as she rolled out vast sheets of dough next day , emphasizing her remarks with vigorous flourishes of the rolling-pin .
`` Our blessed mother understood how to feed a family .
Fourteen stout boys and girls , all alive and well , and you and I as smart at seventy one and two , as most folks at forty .
Good , plain victuals and plenty of 'em is the secret of firm health , '' responded Miss Jerusha , rattling a pan of buns briskly into the oven .
`` We 'd better make some Brighton Rock .
It is gone out of fashion , but our brothers used to be dreadful fond of it , and boys are about alike all the world over .
Ma 's resate never fails , and it will be a new treat for the little dears . ''
`` S'pose we have an extra can of milk left and give 'em a good mugful ?
Some of those poor things look as if they never got a drop .
Peck sells beer , and milk is a deal better .
Shall we , sister ? ''
`` We 'll try it , Jerushy .
In for a penny , in for a pound . ''
And upon that principle the old ladies did the thing handsomely , deferring the great event till Monday , that all might be in apple-pie order .
They said nothing of it when the lads came on Friday morning , and all Saturday , which was a holiday at school , was a very busy one with them .
`` Hullo !
Miss Hetty has done it now , has n't she ?
Look at that , old Peck , and tremble ! ''
exclaimed Charley to his mates , as he came down the street on Monday morning , and espied a neat little sign on the sisters ' door , setting forth the agreeable fact that certain delectable articles of food and drink could be had within at reasonable prices during recess .
No caps were at the windows , but behind the drawn curtains two beaming old faces were peeping out to see how the boys took the great announcement .
Whoever remembers Hawthorne 's half-comic , half-pathetic description of poor Hepsibah Pyncheon 's hopes and fears , when arranging her gingerbread wares in the little shop , can understand something of the excitement of the sisters that day , as the time drew near when the first attempt was to be made .
`` Who will set the door open ? ''
said Miss Hetty when the fateful moment came , and boys began to pour out into the yard .
`` I will ! ''
And , nerving herself to the task , Miss Jerusha marched boldly round the table , set wide the door , and then , as the first joyful whoop from the boys told that the feast was in view , she whisked back into the parlor panic-stricken .
`` There they come , -- hundreds of them , I should think by the sound ! ''
she whispered , as the tramp of feet came nearer , and the clamor of voices exclaiming , -- `` What bully buns ! ''
`` Ai n't those cookies rousers ? ''
`` New stuff too , looks first-rate . ''
`` I told you it was n't a joke . ''
`` Wonder how Peck likes it ? ''
`` Dickson sha 'n' t come in . ''
`` You go first , Charley . ''
`` Here 's a cent for you , Briggs ; come on and trade like the rest of us . ''
`` I 'm so flurried I could n't make change to save my life , '' gasped Miss Jerusha from behind the sofa , whither she had fled .
`` It is my turn now .
Be calm , and we shall soon get used to it . ''
Bracing herself to meet the merry chaff of the boys , as new and trying to the old lady as real danger would have been , Miss Hetty stepped forth into the hall to be greeted by a cheer , and then a chorus of demands for everything so temptingly set forth upon her table .
Intrenched behind a barricade of buns , she dealt out her wares with rapidly increasing speed and skill , for as fast as one relay of lads were satisfied another came up , till the table was bare , the milk-can ran dry , and nothing was left to tell the tale but an empty water-pail and a pile of five-cent pieces .
`` I hope I did n't cheat any one , but I was flurried , sister , they were so very noisy and so hungry .
Bless their dear hearts ; they are full now , I trust . ''
And Miss Hetty looked over her glasses at the crumby countenances opposite , meeting many nods and smiles in return , as her late customers enthusiastically recommended her establishment to the patronage of those who had preferred Peck 's questionable dainties .
`` The Brighton Rock was a success ; we must have a good store for to-morrow , and more milk .
Briggs drank it like a baby , and your nice boy proposed my health like a little gentleman , as he is , '' replied Miss Jerusha , who had ventured out before it was too late , and done the honors of the can with great dignity , in spite of some inward trepidation at the astonishing feats performed with the mug .
`` Peck 's nose is out of joint , if I may use so vulgar an expression , and our lunch a triumphant success .
Boys know what is good , and we need not fear to lose their custom as long as we can supply them .
I shall order a barrel of flour at once , and heat up the big oven .
We have put our hand to the work and must not turn back , for our honor is pledged now . ''
With which lofty remark Miss Hetty closed the door , trying to look utterly unconscious of the anxious Peck , who was flattening his nose against his dingy window-pane to survey his rivals over piles of unsold pastry .
The little venture was a success , and all that winter the old ladies did their part faithfully , finding the task more to their taste than everlasting patchwork and knitting , and receiving a fair profit on their outlay , being shrewd managers , and rich in old-fashioned thrift , energy , and industry .
The boys revelled in wholesome fare , and soon learned to love `` the Aunties , '' as they were called , while such of the parents as took an interest in the matter showed their approval in many ways most gratifying to the old ladies .
The final triumph , however , was the closing of Peck 's shop for want of custom , for few besides the boys patronized him .
None mourned for him , and Dickson proved the truth of Miss Hetty 's prophecy by actually having a bilious fever in the spring .
But a new surprise awaited the boys ; for when they came flocking back after the summer vacation , there stood the little shop , brave in new paint and fittings , full of all the old goodies , and over the door a smart sign , `` Plummer & Co. '' `` By Jove , the Aunties are bound to cover themselves with glory .
Let 's go in and hear all about it .
Behave now , you fellows , or I 'll see about it afterward , '' commanded Charley , as he paused to peer in through the clean windows at the tempting display .
In they trooped , and , tapping on the counter , stood ready to greet the old ladies as usual , but to their great surprise a pretty young woman appeared , and smilingly asked what they would have .
`` We want the Aunties , if you please .
Is n't this their shop ? ''
said little Briggs , bitterly disappointed at not finding his good friends .
`` You will find them over there at home as usual .
Yes , this is their shop , and I 'm their niece .
My husband is the Co. , and we run the shop for the aunts .
I hope you 'll patronize us , gentlemen . ''
`` We will !
we will !
Three cheers for Plummer & Co. ! ''
cried Charley , leading off three rousers , that made the little shop ring again , and brought two caps to the opposite windows , as two cheery old faces smiled and nodded , full of satisfaction at the revolution so successfully planned and carried out .
VII .
A BRIGHT IDEA .
`` No answer to my advertisement , mamma , and I must sit with idle hands for another day , '' said Clara with a despondent sigh , as the postman passed the door .
`` You need n't do that , child , when I 'm suffering for a new cap , and no one can suit me so well as you , if you have the spirits to do it , '' answered her mother from the sofa , where she spent most of her time bewailing her hard lot .
`` Plenty of spirits , mamma , and what is still more necessary , plenty of materials ; so I 'll toss you up ' a love of a cap ' before you know it . ''
And putting her own disappointment out of sight , pretty Clara fell to work with such good-will that even poor , fretful Mrs. Barlow cheered up in spite of herself .
`` What a mercy it is that when everything else is swept away in this dreadful failure I still have you , dear , and no dishonest banker can rob me of my best treasure , '' she said fondly , as she watched her daughter with tearful eyes .
`` No one shall part us , mamma ; and if I can only get something to do we can be independent and happy in spite of our losses ; for now the first shock and worry is over , I find a curious sort of excitement in being poor and having to work for my living .
I was so tired of pleasure and idleness I really quite long to work at something , if I could only find it . ''
But though Clara spoke cheerfully , she had a heavy heart ; for during the month which had followed the discovery that they were nearly penniless , she had been through a great deal for a tenderly nurtured girl of three-and-twenty .
Leaving a luxurious home for two plainly furnished rooms , and trying to sustain her mother with hopeful plans , had kept her busy for a time ; but now she had nothing to do but wait for replies to her modest advertisements as governess , copyist , or reader .
`` I do wish I 'd been taught a trade , mamma , or some useful art by which I could earn our bread now .
Rich people ought to remember that money takes to itself wings , and so prepare their children to face poverty bravely .
If half the sums spent on my music and dress had been used in giving me a single handicraft , what a blessing it would be to us now ! ''
she said , thoughtfully , as she sewed with rapid fingers , unconsciously displaying the delicate skill of one to whom dress was an art and a pleasure .
`` If you were not so proud we might accept Cousin John 's offer and be quite comfortable , '' returned her mother , in a reproachful tone .
`` No ; we should soon feel that we were a burden , and that would be worse than living on bread and water .
Let us try to help ourselves first , and then , if we fail , we can not be accused of indolence .
I know papa would wish it , so please let me try . ''
`` As you like ; I shall not be a burden to any one long . ''
And Mrs. Barlow looked about for her handkerchief .
But Clara prevented the impending shower by skilfully turning the poor lady 's thoughts to the new cap which was ready to try on .
`` Is n't it pretty ?
Just the soft effect that is so becoming to your dear , pale face .
Take a good look at it , and tell me whether you 'll have pale pink bows or lavender . ''
`` It is very nice , child ; you always suit me , you 've such charming taste .
I 'll have lavender , for though it 's not so becoming as pink , it is more appropriate to our fallen fortunes , '' answered her mother , smiling in spite of herself , as she studied effects in the mirror .
`` No , let us have it pink , for I want my pretty mother to look her best , though no one sees her but me , and I 'm so glad to know that I can make caps well if I ca n't do anything else , '' said Clara , rummaging in a box for the desired shade .
`` No one ever suited me so well , and if you were not a lady , you might make a fortune as a milliner , for you have the taste of a Frenchwoman , '' said Mrs. Barlow , adding , as she took her cap off , `` Do n't you remember how offended Madame Pigat was when she found out that you altered all her caps before I wore them , and how she took some of your hints and got all the credit of them ? ''
`` Yes , mamma , '' was all Clara answered , and then sat working so silently that it was evident her thoughts were as busy as her hands .
Presently she said , `` I must go down to our big box for the ribbon , there is none here that I like , '' and , taking a bunch of keys , she went slowly away .
In the large parlor below stood several trunks and cases belonging to Mrs. Barlow , and left there for her convenience , as the room was unlet .
Clara opened several of these , and rapidly turned over their contents , as if looking for something beside pale pink ribbon .
Whatever it was she appeared to find it , for , dropping the last lid with a decided bang , she stood a moment looking about the large drawing-room with such brightening eyes it was evident that they saw some invisible beauty there ; then a smile broke over her face , and she ran up stairs to waken her mother from a brief doze , by crying joyfully , as she waved a curl of gay ribbon over her head , -- `` I 've got it , mamma , I 've got it ! ''
`` Bless the child !
what have you got , -- a letter ? ''
cried Mrs. Barlow , starting up .
`` No ; but something better still , -- a new way to get a living .
I 'll be a milliner , and you shall have as many caps as you like .
Now do n't laugh , but listen ; for it is a splendid idea , and you shall have all the credit of it , because you suggested it . ''
`` I 've materials enough , '' she continued , `` to begin with ; for when all else went , they left us our finery , you know , and now we can live on it instead of wearing it .
Yes , I 'll make caps and sell them , and that will be both easier and pleasanter than to go out teaching and leave you here alone . ''
`` But how can you sell them ? ''
asked her mother , half bewildered by the eagerness with which the new plan was unfolded .
`` That 's the best of all , and I only thought of it when I was among the boxes .
Why not take the room below and lay out all our fine things temptingly , instead of selling them one by one as if we were ashamed of it ?
`` As I stood there just now , I saw it all .
Mrs. Smith would be glad to let the room , and I could take it for a month , just to try how my plan works ; and if it does go well , why can I not make a living as well as Madame ? ''
`` But , child , what will people say ? ''
`` That I 'm an honest girl , and lend me a hand , if they are friends worth having . ''
Mrs. Barlow was not convinced , and declared she would hide herself if any one came ; but after much discussion consented to let the trial be made , though predicting utter failure , as she retired to her sofa to bewail the sad necessity for such a step .
Clara worked busily for several days to carry into execution her plan ; then she sent some notes to a dozen friends , modestly informing them that her `` opening '' would take place on a certain day .
`` Curiosity will bring them , if nothing else , '' she said , trying to seem quite cool and gay , though her heart fluttered with anxiety as she arranged her little stock in the front parlor .
In the bay-window was her flower-stand , where the white azaleas , red geraniums , and gay nasturtiums seemed to have bloomed their loveliest to help the gentle mistress who had tended them so faithfully , even when misfortune 's frost had nipped her own bright roses .
Overhead swung a pair of canaries in their garlanded cage , singing with all their might , as if , like the London ` prentice-boys in old times , they cried , `` What do you lack ?
Come buy , come buy ! ''
On a long table in the middle of the room , a dozen delicate caps and head-dresses were set forth .
On another lay garlands of French flowers bought for pretty Clara 's own adornment .
Several dainty ball-dresses , imported for the gay winter she had expected to pass , hung over chairs and couch , also a velvet mantle Mrs. Barlow wished to sell , while some old lace , well-chosen ribbons , and various elegant trifles gave color and grace to the room .
Clara 's first customer was Mrs. Tower , -- a stout florid lady , full of the good-will and the real kindliness which is so sweet in times of trouble .
`` My dear girl , how are you , and how is mamma ?
Now this is charming .
Such a capital idea , and just what is needed ; a quiet place , where one can come and be made pretty without all the world 's knowing how we do it . ''
And greeting Clara even more cordially than of old , the good lady trotted about , admiring everything , just as she used to do when she visited the girl in her former home to see and exclaim over any fresh arrival of Paris finery .
`` I 'll take this mantle off your hands with pleasure , for I intended to import one , and this saves me so much trouble .
Put it up for me , dear , at the price mamma paid for it , not a cent less , because it has never been worn , and I 've no duties to pay on it , so it is a good bargain for me . ''
Then , before Clara could thank her , she turned to the head-gear , and fell into raptures over a delicate affair , all blonde and forget-me-nots .
`` Such a sweet thing !
I must have it before any one else snaps it up .
Try it on , love , and give it a touch if it does n't fit . ''
Clara knew it would be vain to remonstrate , for Mrs. Tower had not a particle of taste , and insisted on wearing blue , with the complexion of a lobster .
On it went , and even the wearer could not fail to see that something was amiss .
`` It 's not the fault of the cap , dear .
I always was a fright , and my dreadful color spoils whatever I put on , so I have things handsome , and give up any attempt at beauty , '' she said , shaking her head at herself in the glass .
`` You need not do that , and I 'll show you what I mean , if you will give me leave ; for , with your fine figure and eyes , you ca n't help being an elegant woman .
See , now , how I 'll make even this cap becoming . ''
And Clara laid the delicate flowers among the blonde behind , where the effect was unmarred by the over-red cheeks , and nothing but a soft ruche lay over the dark hair in front .
`` There , is n't that better ? ''
she asked , with her own blooming face so full of interest it was a pleasure to see her .
`` Infinitely better ; really becoming , and just what I want with my new silver-gray satin .
Dear me , what a thing taste is ! ''
And Mrs. Tower regarded herself with feminine satisfaction in her really fine eyes .
Here a new arrival interrupted them , and Clara went to meet several girls belonging to what had lately been her own set .
The young ladies did not quite know how to behave ; for , though it seemed perfectly natural to be talking over matters of dress with Clara , there was an air of proud humility about her that made them feel ill at ease , till Nellie , a lively , warm-hearted creature , broke the ice by saying , with a little quiver in her gay voice , -- `` It 's no use , girls ; we 've either got to laugh or cry , and I think , on the whole , it would be best for all parties to laugh , and then go on just as we used to do ; '' which she did so infectiously that the rest joined , and then began to chatter as freely as of old .
`` I speak for the opal silk , Clara , for papa has promised me a Worth dress , and I was green with envy when this came , '' cried Nellie , secretly wishing she wore caps , that she might buy up the whole dozen .
`` You would be green with disgust if I let you have it , for no brunette could wear that most trying of colors , and I was rash to order it .
You are very good , dear Nell , but I wo n't let you sacrifice yourself to friendship in that heroic style , '' answered Clara , with a grateful kiss .
`` But the others are blue and lilac , both more trying than anything with a shade of pink in it .
If you wo n't let me have this , you must invent me the most becoming thing ever seen ; for the most effective dress I had last winter was the gold-colored one with the wreath of laburnums , which you chose for me , '' persisted Nellie , bound to help in some way .
`` I bespeak something sweet for New Year 's Day .
You know my style , '' said another young lady , privately resolving to buy the opal dress , when the rest had gone .
`` Consider yourself engaged to get up my bridesmaids ' costumes , for I never shall forget what a lovely effect those pale green dresses produced at Alice 's wedding .
She looked like a lily among its leaves , some one said , and you suggested them , I remember , '' added a third damsel , with the dignity of a bride-elect .
So it went on , each doing what she could to help , not with condolence , but approbation , and the substantial aid that is so easy to accept when gilded by kind words and cheery sympathy .
A hard winter , but a successful one ; and when spring came , and all her patrons were fitted out for mountains , seaside , or springs , Clara folded her weary hands content .
But Mrs. Barlow saw with anxiety how pale the girl 's cheeks had grown , how wistfully she eyed the green grass in the park , and how soon the smile died on the lips that tried to say cheerfully , -- `` No , mamma , dear , I dare not spend in a summer trip the little sum I have laid by for the hard times that may come .
I shall do very well , but I ca n't help remembering the happy voyage we meant to make this year , and how much good it would do you . ''
Watching the unselfish life of her daughter had taught Mrs. Barlow to forget her own regrets , inspired her with a desire to do her part , and made her ashamed of her past indolence .
Happening to mention her maternal anxieties to Mrs. Tower , that good lady suggested a plan by which the seemingly impossible became a fact , and Mrs. Barlow had the pleasure of surprising Clara with a `` bright idea , '' as the girl had once surprised her .
`` Come , dear , bestir yourself , for we must sail in ten days to pass our summer in or near Paris .
I 've got commissions enough to pay our way , and we can unite business and pleasure in the most charming manner . ''
Clara could only clasp her hands and listen , as her mother unfolded her plan , telling how she was to get Maud 's trousseau , all Mrs. Tower 's winter costumes , and a long list of smaller commissions from friends and patrons who had learned to trust and value the taste and judgment of the young modiste .
So Clara had her summer trip , and came home bright and blooming in the early autumn , ready to take up her pretty trade again , quite unconscious that , while trying to make others beautiful , she was making her own life a very lovely one .
VIII .
HOW THEY CAMPED OUT .
`` It looks so much like snow I think it would be wiser to put off your sleighing party , Gwen , '' said Mrs. Arnold , looking anxiously out at the heavy sky and streets still drifted by the last winter storm .
`` Not before night , mamma ; we do n't mind its being cloudy , we like it , because the sun makes the snow so dazzling when we get out of town .
`` We ca n't give it up now , for here comes Patrick with the boys . ''
And Gwen ran down to welcome the big sleigh , which just then drove up with four jolly lads skirmishing about inside .
`` Come on ! ''
called Mark , her brother , knocking his friends right and left , to make room for the four girls who were to complete the party .
`` What do you think of the weather , Patrick ? ''
asked Mrs. Arnold from the window , still undecided about the wisdom of letting her flock go off alone , papa having been called away after the plan was made .
`` Faith , ma 'm , it 's an illigant day barring the wind , that 's a thrifle could to the nose .
I 'll have me eye on the childer , ma 'm , and there 'll be no throuble at all , at all , '' replied the old coachman , lifting a round red face out of his muffler , and patting little Gus on the shoulder , as he sat proudly on the high seat holding the whip .
`` Be careful , dears , and come home early . ''
With which parting caution mamma shut the window , and watched the young folks drive gayly away , little dreaming what would happen before they got back .
The wind was more than a `` thrifle could , '' for when they got out of the city it blew across the open country in bitter blasts , and made the eight little noses almost as red as old Pat 's , who had been up all night at a wake , and was still heavy-headed with too much whiskey , though no one suspected it .
The lads enjoyed themselves immensely snowballing one another ; for the drifts were still fresh enough to furnish soft snow , and Mark , Bob , and Tony had many a friendly tussle in it as they went up hills , or paused to breathe the horses after a swift trot along a level bit of road .
Little Gus helped drive till his hands were benumbed in spite of the new red mittens , and he had to descend among the girls , who were cuddled cosily under the warm robes , telling secrets , eating candy , and laughing at the older boys ' pranks .
Sixteen-year-old Gwendoline was matron of the party , and kept excellent order among the girls ; for Ruth and Alice were nearly her own age , and Rita a most obedient younger sister .
`` I say , Gwen , we are going to stop at the old house on the way home and get some nuts for this evening .
Papa said we might , and some of the big Baldwins too .
I 've got baskets , and while we fellows fill them you girls can look round the house , '' said Mark , when the exhausted young gentlemen returned to their seats .
`` That will be nice .
I want to get some books , and Rita has been very anxious about one of her dolls , which she is sure was left in the nursery closet .
If we are going to stop we ought to be turning back , Pat , for it is beginning to snow and will be dark early , '' answered Gwen , suddenly realizing that great flakes were fast whitening the roads and the wind had risen to a gale .
`` Shure and I will , miss dear , as soon as iver I can ; but it 's round a good bit we must go , for I could n't be turning here widout upsettin ' the whole of yez , it 's that drifted .
Rest aisy , and I 'll fetch up at the ould place in half an hour , plaze the powers , '' said Pat , who had lost his way and would n't own it , being stupid with a sup or two he had privately taken on the way , to keep the chill out of his bones he said .
On they went again , with the wind at their backs , caring little for the snow that now fell fast , or the gathering twilight , since they were going toward home they thought .
It was a very long half-hour before Pat brought them to the country-house , which was shut up for the winter .
With difficulty they ploughed their way up to the steps , and scrambled on to the piazza , where they danced about to warm their feet till Mark unlocked the door and let them in , leaving Pat to enjoy a doze on his seat .
`` Make haste , boys ; it is cold and dark here , and we must get home .
Mamma will be so anxious , and it really is going to be a bad storm , '' said Gwen , whose spirits were damped by the gloom of the old house , and who felt her responsibility , having promised to be home early .
Off went the boys to attic and cellar , being obliged to light the lantern left here for the use of whoever came now and then to inspect the premises .
The girls , having found books and doll , sat upon the rolled-up carpets , or peeped about at the once gay and hospitable rooms , now looking very empty and desolate with piled-up furniture , shuttered windows , and fireless hearths .
`` If we were going to stay long I 'd have a fire in the library .
Papa often does when he comes out , to keep the books from moulding , '' began Gwen , but was interrupted by a shout from without , and , running to the door , saw Pat picking himself out of a drift while the horses were galloping down the avenue at full speed .
`` Be jabbers , them villains give a jump when that fallin ' branch struck 'em , and out I wint , bein ' tuk unknownst , just thinkin ' of me poor cousin Mike .
May his bed above be aisy the day !
Whist now , miss dear !
I 'll fetch 'em back in a jiffy .
Stop still till I come , and kape them b ` ys quite . ''
With a blow to settle his hat , Patrick trotted gallantly away into the storm , and the girls went in to tell the exciting news to the lads , who came whooping back from their search , with baskets of nuts and apples .
`` Here 's a go ! ''
cried Mark .
`` Old Pat will run half-way to town before he catches the horses , and we are in for an hour or two at least . ''
`` Then do make a fire , for we shall die of cold if we have to wait long , '' begged Gwen , rubbing Rita 's cold hands , and looking anxiously at little Gus , who was about making up his mind to roar .
`` So we will , and be jolly till the blunderbuss gets back .
Camp down , girls , and you fellows , come and hold the lantern while I get wood and stuff .
It is so confoundedly dark , I shall break my neck down the shed steps . ''
And Mark led the way to the library , where the carpet still remained , and comfortable chairs and sofas invited the chilly visitors to rest .
`` How can you light your fire when you get the wood ? ''
asked Ruth , a practical damsel , who looked well after her own creature comforts and was longing for a warm supper .
`` Papa hides the matches in a tin box , so the rats wo n't get at them .
Here they are , and two or three bits of candle for the sticks on the chimney-piece , if he forgets to have the lantern trimmed .
Now we will light up , and look cosey when the boys come back . ''
And producing the box from under a sofa-cushion , Gwen cheered the hearts of all by lighting two candles , rolling up the chairs , and making ready to be comfortable .
Thoughtful Alice went to see if Pat was returning , and found a buffalo-robe lying on the steps .
Returning with this , she reported that there was no sign of the runaways , and advised making ready for a long stay .
`` How mamma will worry ! ''
thought Gwen , but made light of the affair , because she saw Rita looked timid , and Gus shivered till his teeth chattered .
`` We will have a nice time , and play we are shipwrecked people or Arctic explorers .
Here comes Dr. Kane and the sailors with supplies of wood , so we can thaw our pemmican and warm our feet .
Gus shall be the little Esquimaux boy , all dressed in fur , as he is in the picture we have at home , '' she said , wrapping the child in the robe , and putting her own sealskin cap on his head to divert his mind .
`` Here we are !
Now for a jolly blaze , boys ; and if Pat does n't come back we can have our fun here instead of at home , '' cried Mark , well pleased with the adventure , as were his mates .
So they fell to work , and soon a bright fire was lighting up the room with its cheerful shine , and the children gathered about it , quite careless of the storm raging without , and sure that Pat would come in time .
`` I 'm hungry , '' complained Gus as soon as he was warm .
`` So am I , '' added Rita from the rug , where the two little ones sat toasting themselves .
`` Eat an apple , '' said Mark .
`` They are so hard and cold I do n't like them , '' began Gus .
`` Roast some ! ''
cried Ruth .
`` And crack nuts , '' suggested Alice .
`` Pity we ca n't cook something in real camp style ; it would be such fun , '' said Tony , who had spent weeks on Monadnock , living upon the supplies he and his party tugged up the mountain on their backs .
`` We shall not have time for anything but what we have .
Put down your apples and crack away , or we shall be obliged to leave them , '' advised Gwen , coming back from an observation at the front door with an anxious line on her forehead ; for the storm was rapidly increasing , and there was no sign of Pat or the horses .
The rest were in high glee , and an hour or two slipped quickly away as they enjoyed the impromptu feast and played games .
Gus recalled them to the discomforts of their situation by saying with a yawn and a whimper , -- `` I 'm so sleepy !
I want my own bed and mamma . ''
`` So do I ! ''
echoed Rita , who had been nodding for some time , and longed to lie down and sleep comfortably anywhere .
`` Almost eight o'clock !
By Jove , that old Pat is taking his time , I think .
Wonder if he has got into trouble ?
We ca n't do anything , and may as well keep quiet here , '' said Mark , looking at his watch and beginning to understand that the joke was rather a serious one .
`` Better make a night of it and all go to sleep .
Pat can wake us up when he comes .
The cold makes a fellow so drowsy . ''
And Bob gave a stretch that nearly rent him asunder .
`` I will let the children nap on the sofa .
They are so tired of waiting , and may as well amuse themselves in that way as in fretting .
Come , Gus and Rita , each take a pillow , and I 'll cover you up with my shawl . ''
Gwen made the little ones comfortable , and they were off in five minutes .
The others kept up bravely till nine o'clock , then the bits of candles were burnt out , the stories all told , nuts and apples had lost their charm , and weariness and hunger caused spirits to fail perceptibly .
`` I 've eaten five Baldwins , and yet I want more .
Something filling and good .
Ca n't we catch a rat and roast him ? ''
proposed Bob , who was a hearty lad and was ravenous by this time .
`` Is n't there anything in the house ? ''
asked Ruth , who dared not eat nuts for fear of indigestion .
`` Not a thing that I know of except a few pickles in the storeroom ; we had so many , mamma left some here , '' answered Gwen , resolving to provision the house before she left it another autumn .
`` Pickles alone are rather sour feed .
If we only had a biscuit now , they would n't be bad for a relish , '' said Tony , with the air of a man who had known what it was to live on burnt bean-soup and rye flapjacks for a week .
`` I saw a keg of soft-soap in the shed .
How would that go with the pickles ? ''
suggested Bob , who felt equal to the biggest and acidest cucumber ever grown .
`` Mamma knew an old lady who actually did eat soft-soap and cream for her complexion , '' put in Alice , whose own fresh face looked as if she had tried the same distasteful remedy with success .
The boys laughed , and Mark , who felt that hospitality required him to do something for his guests , said briskly , -- `` Let us go on a foraging expedition while the lamp holds out to burn , for the old lantern is almost gone and then we are done for .
Come on , Bob ; your sharp nose will smell out food if there is any . ''
`` Do n't set the house afire , and bring more wood when you come , for we must have light of some kind in this poky place , '' called Gwen , with a sigh , wishing every one of them were safely at home and abed .
A great tramping of boots , slamming of doors , and shouting of voices followed the departure of the boys , as well as a crash , a howl , and then a roar of laughter , as Bob fell down the cellar stairs , having opened the door in search of food and poked his nose in too far .
Presently they came back , very dusty , cobwebby , and cold , but triumphantly bearing a droll collection of trophies .
Mark had a piece of board and the lantern , Tony a big wooden box and a tin pail , Bob fondly embraced a pickle jar and a tumbler of jelly which had been forgotten on a high shelf in the storeroom .
`` Meal , pickles , jam , and boards .
What a mess , and what are we to do with it all ? ''
cried the girls , much amused at the result of the expedition .
`` Can any of you make a hoe cake ? ''
demanded Mark .
`` No , indeed !
I can make caramels and cocoanut-cakes , '' said Ruth , proudly .
`` I can make good toast and tea , '' added Alice .
`` I ca n't cook anything , '' confessed Gwen , who was unusually accomplished in French , German , and music .
`` Girls are n't worth much in the hour of need .
Take hold , Tony , you are the chap for me . ''
And Mark disrespectfully turned his back on the young ladies , who could only sit and watch the lads work .
`` He ca n't do it without water , '' whispered Ruth .
`` Or salt , '' answered Alice .
`` Or a pan to bake it in , '' added Gwen ; and then all smiled at the dilemma they foresaw .
But Tony was equal to the occasion , and calmly went on with his task , while Mark arranged the fire and Bob opened the pickles .
First the new cook filled the pail with snow till enough was melted to wet the meal ; this mixture was stirred with a pine stick till thick enough , then spread on the board and set up before the bed of coals to brown .
`` It never will bake in the world . ''
`` He ca n't turn it , so it wo n't be done on both sides . ''
`` Wo n't be fit to eat any way ! ''
And with these dark hints the girls consoled themselves for their want of skill .
But the cake did bake a nice brown , Tony did turn it neatly with his jack-knife and the stick , and when it was done cut it into bits , added jelly , and passed it round on an old atlas ; and every one said , -- `` It really does taste good ! ''
Two more were baked , and eaten with pickles for a change , then all were satisfied , and after a vote of thanks to Tony they began to think of sleep .
`` Pat has gone home and told them we are all right , and mamma knows we can manage here well enough for one night , so do n't worry , Gwen , but take a nap , and I 'll lie on the rug and see to the fire . ''
Mark 's happy-go-lucky way of taking things did not convince his sister ; but as she could do nothing , she submitted and made her friends as comfortable as she could .
All had plenty of wraps , so the girls nestled into the three large chairs , Bob and Tony rolled themselves up in the robe , with their feet to the fire , and were soon snoring like weary hunters .
Mark pillowed his head on a log , and was sound asleep in ten minutes in spite of his promise to be sentinel .
Gwen 's chair was the least easy of the three , and she could not forget herself like the rest , but sat wide awake , watching the blaze , counting the hours , and wondering why no one came to them .
The wind blew fiercely , the snow beat against the blinds , rats scuttled about the walls , and now and then a branch fell upon the roof with a crash .
Weary , yet excited , the poor girl imagined all sorts of mishaps to Pat and the horses , recalled various ghost stories she had heard , and wondered if it was on such a night as this that a neighbor 's house had been robbed .
So nervous did she get at last that she covered up her face and resolutely began to count a thousand , feeling that anything was better than having to wake Mark and own she was frightened .
Before she knew it she fell into a drowse and dreamed that they were all cast away on an iceberg and a polar bear was coming up to devour Gus , who innocently called to the big white dog and waited to caress him .
`` A bear !
a bear !
oh , boys , save him ! ''
murmured Gwen in her sleep , and the sound of her own distressed voice waked her .
The fire was nearly out , for she had slept longer than she knew , the room was full of shadows , and the storm seemed to have died away .
In the silence which now reigned , unbroken even by a snore , Gwen heard a sound that made her start and tremble .
Some one was coming softly up the back stairs .
All the outer doors were locked , she was sure ; all the boys lay in their places , for she could see and count the three long figures and little Gus in a bunch on the sofa .
The girls had not stirred , and this was no rat 's scamper , but a slow and careful tread , stealing nearer and nearer to the study door , left ajar when the last load of wood was brought in .
`` Pat would knock or ring , and papa would speak , so that we might not be scared .
I want to scream , but I wo n't till I see that it really is some one , '' thought Gwen , while her heart beat fast and her eyes were fixed on the door , straining to see through the gloom .
The steps drew nearer , paused on the threshold , and then a head appeared as the door noiselessly swung wider open .
A man 's head in a fur cap , but it was neither papa nor Pat nor Uncle Ed .
Poor Gwen would have called out then , but her voice was gone , and she could only lie back , looking , mute and motionless .
A tiny spire of flame sprung up and flickered for a moment on the tall dark figure in the doorway , a big man with a beard , and in his hand something that glittered .
Was it a pistol or a dagger or a dark lantern ?
thought the girl , as the glimmer died away , and the shadows returned to terrify her .
The man seemed to look about him keenly for a moment , then vanished , and the steps went down the hall to the front door , which was opened from within and some one admitted quietly .
Whispers were heard , and then feet approached again , accompanied by a gleam of light .
`` Now I must scream ! ''
thought Gwen ; and scream she did with all her might , as two men entered , one carrying a lantern , the other a bright tin can .
`` Boys !
Robbers !
Fire !
Tramps !
Oh , do wake up ! ''
cried Gwen , frantically pulling Mark by the hair , and Bob and Tony by the legs , as the quickest way of rousing them .
Then there was a scene !
The boys sprung up and rubbed their eyes , the girls hid theirs and began to shriek , while the burglars laughed aloud , and poor Gwen , quite worn out , fainted away on the rug .
It was all over in a minute , however ; for Mark had his wits about him , and his first glance at the man with the lantern allayed his fears .
`` Hullo , Uncle Ed !
We are all right .
Got tired of waiting for you , so we went to sleep . ''
`` Stop screaming , girls , and quiet those children !
Poor little Gwen is badly frightened .
Get some snow , Tom , while I pick her up , '' commanded the uncle , and order was soon established .
The boys were all right at once , and Ruth and Alice devoted themselves to the children , who were very cross and sleepy in spite of their fright .
Gwen was herself in a moment , and so ashamed of her scare that she was glad there was no more light to betray her pale cheeks .
`` I should have known you , uncle , at once , but to see a strange man startled me , and he did n't speak , and I thought that can was a pistol , '' stammered Gwen , when she had collected her wits a little .
`` Why , that 's my old friend and captain , Tom May .
Do n't you remember him , child ?
He thought you were all asleep , so crept out to tell me and let me in . ''
`` How did he get in himself ? ''
asked Gwen , glad to turn the conversation .
`` Found the shed door open , and surprised the camp by a flank movement .
You would n't do for picket duty , boys , '' laughed Captain Tom , enjoying the dismay of the lads .
`` Oh , thunder !
I forgot to bolt it when we first went for the wood .
Had to open it , the place was so plaguy dark , '' muttered Bob , much disgusted .
`` Where 's Pat ? ''
asked Tony , with great presence of mind , feeling anxious to shift all blame to his broad shoulders .
Uncle Ed shook the snow from his hair and clothes , and , poking up the fire , leisurely sat down and took Gus on his knee before he replied , -- `` Serve out the grog , Tom , while I spin my yarn . ''
Round went the can of hot coffee , and a few sips brightened up the young folks immensely , so that they listened with great interest to the tale of Pat 's mishaps .
`` The scamp was half-seas over when he started , and deserves all he got .
In the first place he lost his way , then tumbled overboard , and let the horses go .
He floundered after them a mile or two , then lost his bearings in the storm , pitched into a ditch , broke his head , and lay there till found .
The fellows carried him to a house off the road , and there he is in a nice state ; for , being his countrymen , they dosed him with whiskey till he was ` quite and aisy , ' and went to sleep , forgetting all about you , the horses , and his distracted mistress at home .
The animals were stopped at the cross-roads , and there we found them after a lively cruise round the country .
Then we hunted up Pat ; but what with the blow and too many drops of ` the crayther , ' his head was in a muddle , and we could get nothing out of him .
So we went home again , and then your mother remembered that you had mentioned stopping here , and we fitted out a new craft and set sail , prepared for a long voyage .
Your father was away , so Tom volunteered , and here we are . ''
`` A jolly lark !
now let us go home and go to bed , '' proposed Mark , with a gape .
`` Is n't it most morning ? ''
asked Tony , who had been sleeping like a dormouse .
`` Just eleven .
Now pack up and let us be off .
The storm is over , the moon coming out , and we shall find a good supper waiting for the loved and lost .
Bear a hand , Tom , and ship this little duffer , for he 's off again . ''
Uncle Ed put Gus into the captain 's arms , and , taking Rita himself , led the way to the sleigh which stood at the door .
In they all bundled , and after making the house safe , off they went , feeling that they had had a pretty good time on the whole .
`` I will learn cooking and courage , before I try camping out again , '' resolved Gwen , as she went jingling homeward ; and she kept her word .
IX .
MY LITTLE SCHOOL-GIRL .
The first time that I saw her was one autumn morning as I rode to town in a horse-car .
It was early , and my only fellow-passenger was a crusty old gentleman , who sat in a corner , reading his paper ; so when the car stopped , I glanced out to see who came next , hoping it would be a pleasanter person .
No one appeared for a minute , and the car stood still , while both driver and conductor looked in the same direction without a sign of impatience .
I looked also , but all I could see was a little girl running across the park , as girls of twelve or thirteen seldom run nowadays , if any one can see them .
`` Are you waiting for her ? ''
I asked of the pleasant-faced conductor , who stood with his hand on the bell , and a good-natured smile in his eyes .
`` Yes , ma'am , we always stop for little missy , '' he answered ; and just then up she came , all rosy and breathless with her run .
`` Thank you very much .
I 'm late to-day , and was afraid I should miss my car , '' she said , as he helped her in with a fatherly air that was pleasant to see .
Taking a corner seat , she smoothed the curly locks , disturbed by the wind , put on her gloves , and settled her books in her lap , then modestly glanced from the old gentleman in the opposite corner to the lady near by .
Such a bright little face as I saw under the brown hat-rim , happy blue eyes , dimples in the ruddy cheeks , and the innocent expression which makes a young girl so sweet an object to old eyes .
The crusty gentleman evidently agreed with me , for he peeped over the top of the paper at his pleasant little neighbor as she sat studying a lesson , and cheering herself with occasional sniffs at a posy of mignonette in her button-hole .
When the old gentleman caught my eye , he dived out of sight with a loud `` Hem ! ''
but he was peeping again directly , for there was something irresistibly attractive about the unconscious lassie opposite ; and one could no more help looking at her than at a lovely flower or a playful kitten .
Presently she shut her book with a decided pat , and an air of relief that amused me .
She saw the half-smile I could not repress , seemed to understand my sympathy , and said with a laugh , -- `` It was a hard lesson , but I 've got it ! ''
So we began to talk about school and lessons , and I soon discovered that the girl was a clever scholar , whose only drawback was , as she confided to me , a `` love of fun . ''
We were just getting quite friendly , when several young men got in , one of whom stared at the pretty child till even she observed it , and showed that she did by the color that came and went in her cheeks .
It annoyed me as much as if she had been my own little daughter , for I like modesty , and have often been troubled by the forward manners of schoolgirls , who seem to enjoy being looked at .
So I helped this one out of her little trouble by making room between the old gentleman and myself , and motioning her to come and sit there .
She understood at once , thanked me with a look , and nestled into the safe place so gratefully , that the old gentleman glared over his spectacles at the rude person who had disturbed the serenity of the child .
Then we rumbled along again , the car getting fuller and fuller as we got down town .
Presently an Irishwoman , with a baby , got in , and before I could offer my seat , my little school-girl was out of hers , with a polite -- `` Please take it , ma'am ; I can stand perfectly well . ''
It was prettily done , and I valued the small courtesy all the more , because it evidently cost the bashful creature an effort to stand up alone in a car full of strangers ; especially as she could not reach the strap to steady herself , and found it difficult to stand comfortably .
Then it was that the crusty man showed how he appreciated my girl 's good manners , for he hooked his cane in the strap , and gave it to her , saying , with a smile that lighted up his rough face like sunshine , -- `` Hold on to that , my dear . ''
`` Ah , '' thought I , `` how little we can judge from appearances !
This grim old soul is a gentleman , after all . ''
Turning her face towards us , the girl held on to the stout cane , and swayed easily to and fro as we bumped over the rails .
The Irishwoman 's baby , a sickly little thing , was attracted by the flowers , and put out a small hand to touch them , with a wistful look at the bright face above .
`` Will baby have some ? ''
said my girl , and made the little creature happy with some gay red leaves .
`` Bless your heart , honey , it 's fond he is of the like o ' them , and seldom he gets any , '' said the mother , gratefully , as she settled baby 's dirty hood , and wrapped the old shawl round his feet .
Baby stared hard at the giver of posies , but his honest blue eyes gave no offence , and soon the two were so friendly that baby boldly clutched at the bright buttons on her sack , and crowed with delight when he got one , while we all smiled at the pretty play , and were sorry when the little lady , with a bow and a smile to us , got out at the church corner .
`` Now , I shall probably never see that child again , yet what a pleasant picture she leaves in my memory ! ''
I thought to myself , as I caught a last glimpse of the brown hat going round the corner .
But I did see her again many times that winter ; for not long after , as I passed down a certain street near my winter quarters , I came upon a flock of girls , eating their luncheon as they walked to and fro on the sunny side , -- pretty , merry creatures , all laughing and chattering at once , as they tossed apples from hand to hand , munched candy , or compared cookies .
I went slowly , to enjoy the sight , as I do when I meet a party of sparrows on the Common , and was wondering what would become of so many budding women , when , all of a sudden , I saw my little school-girl .
Yes , I knew her in a minute , for she wore the same brown hat , and the rosy face was sparkling with fun , as she told secrets with a chosen friend , while eating a wholesome slice of bread-and-butter as only a hungry school-girl could .
She did not recognize me , but I took a good look at her as I went by , longing to know what the particular secret was that ended in such a gale of laughter .
After that , I often saw my girl as I took my walks abroad , and one day could not resist speaking to her when I met her alone ; for usually her mates clustered round her like bees about their queen , which pleased me , since it showed how much they loved the sunshiny child .
I had a paper of grapes in my hand , and when I saw her coming , whisked out a handsome bunch , all ready to offer , for I had made up my mind to speak this time .
She was reading a paper , but looked up to give me the inside of the walk .
Before her eyes could fall again , I held out the grapes and said , just as I had heard her say more than once to a schoolmate at lunch-time , `` Let 's go halves . ''
She understood at once , laughed , and took the bunch , saying with twinkling eyes , -- `` Oh , thank you !
they are beauties ! ''
Then , as we went on to the corner together , I told her why I did it , and recalled the car-ride .
`` I 'd forgotten all about that , but my conductor is very kind , and always waits for me , '' she said , evidently surprised that a stranger should take an interest in her small self .
I did not have half time enough with her , for a bell rang , and away she skipped , looking back to nod and smile at the queer lady who had taken a fancy to her .
A few days afterward a fine nosegay of flowers was left at the door for me , and when I asked the servant who sent them he answered , -- `` A little girl asked if a lame lady did n't live here , and when I said yes , she told me to give you these , and say the grapes were very nice . ''
I knew at once who it was , and enjoyed the funny message immensely ; for when one leads a quiet life , little things interest and amuse .
Christmas was close by , and I planned a return for the flowers , of a sort , that I fancied my young friend would appreciate .
I knew that Christmas week would be a holiday , so , the day before it began , I went to the school just before recess , and left a frosted plum cake , directed to `` Miss Goldilocks , from she knows who . ''
At first I did not know how to address my nice white parcel , for I never had heard the child 's name .
But after thinking over the matter , I remembered that she was the only girl there with yellow curls hanging down her back , so I decided to risk the cake with the above direction .
The maid who took it in -LRB- for my girl went to a private school -RRB- smiled , and said at once she knew who I meant .
I left my cake , and strolled round the corner to the house of a friend , there to wait and watch for the success of my joke , for the girls always went that way at recess .
Presently the little hats began to go bobbing by , the silent street to echo with laughter , and the sidewalk to bloom with gay gowns , for the girls were all out in winter colors now .
From behind a curtain I peeped at them , and saw , with great satisfaction , that nearly all had bits of my cake in their hands , and were talking it over with the most flattering interest .
My particular little girl , with a friend on each arm , passed so near me that I could see the happy look in her eyes , and hear her say , with a toss of the bright hair , -- `` Mother will plan it for me , and I can get it done by New Year .
Wo n't it be fun to hang it on the door some day , and then run ? ''
I fancied that she meant to make something for me , and waited with patience , wondering how this odd frolic with my little school-girl would end .
New Year 's Day came and passed , but no gift hung on my door ; so I made up my mind it was all a mistake , and , being pretty busy about that time , thought no more of the matter till some weeks later , as I came into town one day after a visit in the country .
I am fond of observing faces , and seldom forget one if anything has particularly attracted my attention to it .
So this morning , as I rode along , I looked at the conductor , as there was no one else to observe , and he had a pleasant sort of face .
Somehow , it looked familiar , and after thinking idly about it for a minute , I remembered where I had seen it before .
He was the man who waited for `` little missy , '' and I at once began to hope that she would come again , for I wanted to ask about the holidays , remembering how `` fond of fun '' she was .
When we came to the South End Square , where I met her first , I looked out , expecting to see the little figure running down the wide path again , and quite willing to wait for it a long time if necessary .
But no one was to be seen but two boys and a dog .
The car did not stop , and though the conductor looked out that way , his hand was not on the strap , and no smile on his face .
`` Do n't you wait for the little girl now ? ''
I asked , feeling disappointed at not seeing my pretty friend again .
`` I wish I could , ma'am , '' answered the man , understanding at once , though of course he did not remember me .
`` New rules , perhaps ? ''
I added , as he did not explain , but stood fingering his punch , and never minding an old lady , wildly waving her bag at him from the sidewalk .
`` No , ma'am ; but it 's no use waiting for little missy any more , because '' -- here he leaned in and said , very low , -- `` she is dead ; '' then turned sharply round , rung the bell , put the old lady in and shut the door .
How grieved I was to have that pleasant friendship end so sadly , for I had planned many small surprises for my girl , and now I could do no more , could never know all about her , never see the sunny face again , or win another word from lips that seemed made for smiling .
Only a little school-girl , yet how many friends she seemed to have , making them unconsciously by her gentle manners , generous actions , and innocent light-heartedness .
I could not bear to think what home must be without her , for I am sure I was right in believing her a good , sweet child , because real character shows itself in little things , and the heart that always keeps in tune makes its music heard everywhere .
The busy man of the horse-car found time to miss her , the schoolmates evidently mourned their queen , for when I met them they walked quietly , talked low , and several wore black bows upon the sleeve ; while I , although I never knew her name , or learned a single fact about her , felt the sweetness of her happy nature , and have not yet forgotten my little school-girl .
X .
WHAT A SHOVEL DID .
As my friend stood by the window , watching the `` soft falling snow , '' I saw him smile , -- a thoughtful yet a very happy smile , and , anxious to know what brought it , I asked , -- `` What do you see out there ? ''
`` Myself , '' was the answer that made me stare in surprise , as I joined him and looked curiously into the street .
All I saw was a man shovelling snow ; and , thoroughly puzzled , I turned to Richard , demanding an explanation .
He laughed , and answered readily , -- `` While we wait for Kate and the children , I 'll tell you a little adventure of mine .
It may be useful to you some day .
`` Fifteen years ago , on a Sunday morning like this , I stood at the window of a fireless , shabby little room , without one cent in my pocket , and no prospect of getting one .
`` I had gone supperless to bed , and spent the long night asking , ` What shall I do ? '
and , receiving no reply but that which is so hard for eager youth to accept , ` Wait and trust . '
`` I was alone in the world , with no fortune but my own talent , and even that I was beginning to doubt , because it brought no money .
For a year I had worked and hoped , with a brave spirit ; had written my life into poems and tales ; tried a play ; turned critic and reviewed books ; offered my pen and time to any one who would employ them , and now was ready for the hardest literary work , and the poorest pay , for starvation stared me in the face .
`` All my ventures failed , and my paper boats freighted with so many high hopes , went down one after another , leaving me to despair .
The last wreck lay on my table then , -- a novel , worn with much journeying to and fro , on which I had staked my last chance , and lost it .
`` As I stood there at my window , cold and hungry , solitary and despairing , I said to myself , in a desperate mood , -- '' ` It is all a mistake ; I have no talent , and there is no room in the world for me , so the quicker I get out of it the better . '
`` Just then a little chap came from a gate opposite , with a shovel on his shoulder , and trudged away , whistling shrilly , to look for a job .
I watched him out of sight , thinking bitterly , -- '' ` Now look at the injustice of it !
Here am I , a young man full of brains , starving because no one will give me a chance ; and there is that ignorant little fellow making a living with an old shovel ! ' ''
A voice seemed to answer me , saying , -- '' ` Why do n't you do the same ?
If brains do n't pay , try muscles , and thank God that you have health . '
`` Of course it was only my own pluck and common sense ; but I declare to you I was as much struck by the new idea as if a strange voice had actually spoken ; and I answered , heartily , -- '' ` As I live I will try it !
and not give up while there is any honest work for these hands to do . '
`` With sudden energy I put on my shabbiest clothes , -- and they were very shabby , of course , added an old cap and rough comforter , as disguise , and stole down to the shed where I had seen a shovel .
It was early , and the house was very quiet , for the other lodgers were hard workers all the week , and took their rest Sunday morning .
`` Unseen by the sleepy girl making her fires , I got the shovel and stole away by the back gate , feeling like a boy out on a frolic .
It was bitter cold , and a heavy snow-storm had raged all night .
The streets were full of drifts , and the city looked as if dead , for no one was stirring yet but milkmen , and other poor fellows like me , seeking for an early job .
`` I made my way to the West End , and was trying to decide at which of the tall houses to apply first , when the door of one opened , and a pretty housemaid appeared , broom in hand .
`` At sight of the snowy wilderness she looked dismayed , and with a few unavailing strokes of her broom at the drift on the steps , was about to go in , when her eye fell on me .
`` My shovel explained my mission , and she beckoned with an imperious wave of her duster to the shabby man opposite .
I ploughed across , and received in silence the order to -- '' ` Clear them steps and sidewalk , and sweep 'em nice , for our folks always go to church , rain or shine . '
`` Then leaving her broom outside , the maid slammed the door with a shiver , and I fell to work manfully .
It was a heavy job , and my hands , unused to any heavier tool than a pen , were soon blistered ; but I tugged away , and presently found myself much stimulated by the critical and approving glances bestowed upon me by the pretty girl , taking breakfast in the basement with a buxom cook and a friend , who had evidently dropped in on her way home from early Mass. .
`` I was a young fellow , and in spite of my late despair , the fun of the thing tickled me immensely , and I laughed behind my old tippet , as I shovelled and swept with a vigor that caused the stout cook to smile upon me .
`` When the job was done , and I went to the lower door for my well-earned pay , the maid said , with condescension , as she glanced coquettishly at my ruddy face and eyes that twinkled under the old cap , I suspect , -- '' ` You can wait here while I run up , and get the money , if master is awake . ' ''
` Ye have n't the heart of a woman , Mary , to kape the poor crater out there when it 's kilt wid the could he is , ' said the buxom cook ; adding , in a motherly tone , ` Come in wid yez , my man , and set till the fire , for it 's bitter weather the day . ' ''
` Faix an ' it is , ma 'm , thankin ' ye kindly , ' I answered , with a fine brogue , for as a lad I had played the Irishman with success .
`` The good soul warmed to me at once , and , filling a mug with coffee , gave it to me with a hearty -- '' ' A hot sup will do you no harrum , me b ` y , and sure in the blessid Christmas time that 's just fore-ninst us , the master wo n't begrudge ye a breakfast ; so take a biscuit and a sassage , for it 's like ye have n't had a mouthful betwixt your lips the day . ' ''
` That I will , ' said I ; ` and it 's good luck and a long life to ye I 'm drinkin ' in this illegint coffee . ' ''
` Bless the b ` y !
but it 's a grateful heart he has , and a blue eye as like my Pat as two pays , ' cried the cook , regarding me with increasing favor , as I bolted the breakfast which I should have been too proud to accept from any hand less humble .
`` Here the guest asked a question concerning Pat , and instantly the mother gushed into praises of her boy , telling in a few picturesque words , as only an Irishwoman could do it , how Pat had come to ` Ameriky ' first when things went hard with them in the ` ould country , ' and how good he was in sending home his wages till she could join him .
`` How she came , but could not find her ` b ` y , because of the loss of the letter with his address , and how for a year she waited and watched , sure that he would find her at last .
How the saints had an eye on him , and one happy day answered her prayers in a way that she considered ` aquil to any merrycle ever seen . '
For , looking up from her work , who should she see , in a fine livery , sitting on the box of a fine carriage at the master 's door , but ` her own b ` y , like a king in his glory . ' ''
` Arrah , ye should have seen me go up thim steps , Katy , and my Pat come off that box like an angel flyin ' , and the way he tuk me in his arms , never mindin ' his illigint coat , and me all dirt a-blackin ' me range .
Ah ` r , but I was a happy crayter that day ! '
`` Here the good soul stopped to wipe away the tears that were shining on her fat cheeks , and Mary appeared with a dollar , ` for master said it was a tough job and well done . ' ''
` May his bed be aisy above , darlin ' , and many thanks , and the compliments of the sayson to ye , ladies . '
`` With which grateful farewell I trudged away , well pleased at the success of my first attempt .
Refreshed and cheered by the kindness of my humble hostess , I took heart , and worked away at my next job with redoubled energy , and by the time the first bells rang for church , I had three dollars in my pocket .
My blood danced in my veins , and all my despair seemed shovelled away with the snow I had cleared from other people 's paths .
`` My back ached , and my palms were sore , but heart and soul were in tune again , and hurrying home , I dressed and went to church , feeling that a special thanksgiving was due for the lesson I had learned .
`` Christmas garlands hung upon the walls , Christmas music rolled through the church , and Christmas sermon , prayer , and psalm cheered the hearts of all .
But the shabby young man in the back seat found such beauty and comfort in the service of that day that he never forgot it , for it was the turning-point of his life . ''
My friend fell silent for a minute , and I sat , contrasting that past of his , with the happy present , for he was a prosperous man now , with an honored name , a comfortable fortune , and best of all , a noble wife , and some brave lads to follow in his footsteps .
Presently I could not resist asking , -- `` Did you go on shovelling , Dick ? ''
`` Not long , for there was no need of it , thanks to Pat 's mother , '' he answered smiling .
`` Come , I must have all the story , for I know it has a sequel ! ''
`` A very happy one .
Yes , I owe to that kind soul and her little story , the turn that Fortune gave her wheel .
Nay , rather say , the touch of nature that makes the whole world kin .
For when I went home that day , I sat down and made a simple tale from the hint she gave , and something of her own humor and pathos must have got into it , for it was accepted , and more stories solicited , to my great surprise .
`` I wrote it to please myself , for I was in a happy mood ; and though my room was cold , the sun shone ; though my closet was bare , honest money was in my pocket , and I felt as rich as a king .
`` I remember I laughed at myself as I posted the manuscript on Monday morning , called it infatuation , and thought no more of it for days , being busy with my new friend , the shovel .
`` Snow was gone , but coal remained , and I put in tons of it with a will , for this active labor was the tonic my overwrought nerves needed , and my spirits rose wonderfully , as muscles earned the daily bread that brains had failed to win .
`` Ah !
but they brought me something better than bread , dearer than fame ; and to that old shovel I owe the happiness of my life !
The very day I got the letter accepting the little story , I was gaily putting in my last ton of coal , for I felt that now I might take up the pen again , since in a kitchen I had discovered the magic that wins listeners .
`` Bless my heart !
how I worked and how I whistled , I was so happy , and felt so lifted above all doubt and fear by the knowledge that my talent was not a failure , and the fact that my own strong arms could keep the wolf from the door !
`` I was so busy that I had not observed a lady watching me from the window .
She had opened it to feed the hungry sparrows , and my whistle caught her ear , for it was an air she knew , and had heard a certain young man sing before he dropped out of her circle , and left her wondering sadly what had befallen him .
`` All this I learned afterward ; then I unconsciously piped away till my job was done , wiped my hot face , and went in to get my money .
To my surprise I was told to ` go into the dining room , and missis would attend to it . '
`` I went and found myself face to face , not with ` missis , ' but the woman I had loved hopelessly but faithfully all that hard year , since I had gone away to fight my battle alone .
`` For a moment I believed she did not know me , in my shabby suit and besmirched face .
But she did , and with a world of feeling in her own sweet face , she offered me , not money , but her hand , saying in a voice that made my heart leap up , -- '' ` Richard , I was afraid you had gone down as so many disappointed young men go when their ambitious hopes fail ; but I am so glad , so proud to see in your face that you still work and wait , like a brave and honest man .
I must speak to you ! '
`` What could I do after that but hold the white hand fast in both my grimy ones , while I told my little story , and the hope that had come at last .
Heaven knows I told it very badly , for those tender eyes were upon me all the time , so full of unspoken love and pity , admiration and respect , that I felt like one in a glorified dream , and forgot I was a coal-heaver .
`` That was the last of it , though , and the next time I came to see my Kate it was with clean hands , that carried her , as a first love-token , the little tale which was the foundation-stone of this happy home . ''
He stopped there , and his face brightened beautifully , for the sound of little feet approached , and childish voices cried eagerly , -- `` Papa !
papa !
the snow has come !
May we go and shovel off the steps ? ''
`` Yes , my lads , and mind you do it well ; for some day you may have to earn your breakfast , '' answered Dick , as three fine boys came prancing in , full of delight at the first snow-fall .
`` These fellows have a passion for shovelling which they inherit from their father , '' he added , with a twinkle of the eye that told Mrs. Kate what we had been talking about .
It was sweet to see with what tender pride she took the hand he stretched out to her , and holding it in both her own , said , with her eyes upon her boys , -- `` I hope they will inherit not only their father 's respect for honest work , but the genius that can see and paint truth and beauty in the humble things of this world . ''
XI .
CLAMS .
A GHOST STORY .
`` I have n't a room in the house , ma'am , but if you do n't mind going down to the cottage , and coming up here to your meals , I can accommodate you , and would be glad to , '' said Mrs. Grant , in answer to my demand for board .
`` Where is the cottage ? ''
and I looked about me , feeling ready to accept anything in the way of shelter , after the long , hot journey from broiling Boston , to breezy York Harbor .
`` Right down there , just a step , you see .
It 's all in order , and next week it will be full , for many folks prefer it because of the quiet . ''
At the end of a precipitous path , which offered every facility for accidents of all sorts , from a sprained ankle to a broken neck , stood the cottage , a little white building with a pretty woodbine over the porch , gay flowers in the garden , and the blue Atlantic rolling up at the foot of the cliff .
`` A regular ` Cottage by the Sea . '
It will suit me exactly if I can have that front upper room .
I do n't mind being alone , so have my trunk taken down , please , and I 'll get ready for tea , '' said I , congratulating myself on my good luck .
Alas , how little I knew what a night of terror I was to pass in that picturesque abode !
An hour later , refreshed by my tea and invigorated by the delicious coolness , I plunged recklessly into the gayeties of the season , and accepted two invitations for the evening , -- one to a stroll on Sunset Hill , the other to a clam-bake on the beach .
The stroll came first , and while my friend paused at one of the fishily-fragrant houses by the way , to interview her washerwoman , I went on to the hill-top , where a nautical old gentleman with a spy-glass , welcomed me with the amiable remark , -- `` Pretty likely place for a prospeck . ''
Entering into a conversation with this ancient mariner , I asked if he knew any legend or stories concerning the old houses all about us .
`` Sights of 'em ; but it aint allers the old places as has the most stories concernin ' 'em .
Why , that cottage down yonder aint more 'n fifty year old , and they say there 's been a lot of ghosts seen there , owin ' to a man 's killin ' of himself in the back bedroom . ''
`` What , that house at the end of the lane ? ''
I asked , with sudden interest .
`` Jes ' so ; nice place , but lonesome and dampish .
Ghosts and toadstools is apt to locate in houses of that sort , '' placidly responded the venerable tar .
The dampness scared me more than the goblins , for I never saw a ghost yet , but I had been haunted by rheumatism , and found it a hard fiend to exorcise .
`` I 've taken a room there , so I 'm rather interested in knowing what company I 'm to have . ''
`` Took a room , hev you ?
Wal , I dare say you wo n't be troubled .
Some folks have a knack of seeing sperrits , and then agin some has n't .
My wife is uncommon powerful that way , but I aint ; my sight 's dreadful poor for that sort of critter . ''
There was such a sly twinkle in the starboard eye of the old fellow as he spoke , that I laughed outright , and asked , sociably , -- `` Has she ever seen the ghosts of the cottage ?
I think I have rather a knack that way , and I 'd like to know what to expect . ''
`` No , her sort is the rappin ' kind .
Down yonder the only ghost I take much stock in is old Bezee Tucker 's .
He killed himself in the back bedroom , and some folks say they 've heard him groanin ' there nights , and a drippin ' sound ; he bled to death , you know .
It was kep ' quiet at the time , and is forgotten now by all but a few old chaps like me .
Bezee was allers civil to the ladies , so I guess he wo n't bother you , ma'am ; '' and the old fellow laughed .
`` If he does , I 'll let you know ; '' and with that I departed , for my friend called to me that the beach party was clamoring for our company .
In the delights of that festive hour , I forgot the croaking of the ancient mariner , for I was about to taste a clam for the first time in my life , and it was a most absorbing moment .
Perched about on the rocks like hungry penguins , we watched the jovial cooks with breathless interest , as they struggled with refractory frying-pans , fish that stubbornly refused to brown , steaming seaweed and hot stones .
A certain captivating little Margie waited upon me so prettily that I should have been tempted to try a sea porcupine unskinned if she had offered it , so irresistible was her chirping way of saying , `` Oh , here 's a perfectly lovely one !
Do take him by his little black head and eat him quick . ''
So beguiled , I indulged recklessly in clams , served hot between two shells , little dreaming what a price I was to pay for that marine banquet .
We kept up till late , and then I was left at my own door by my friend , who informed me that York was a very primitive , safe place , where people slept with unlocked doors , and nothing ever went amiss o'nights .
I said nothing of the ghosts , being ashamed to own that I quaked a little at the idea of the `` back bedroom , '' as I shut out the friendly faces and bolted myself in .
A lamp and matches stood in the hall , and lighting the lamp , I whisked up stairs with suspicious rapidity , locked my door and retired to bed , firmly refusing to own even to myself that I had ever heard the name of Bezee Tucker .
Being very tired , I soon fell asleep ; but fried potatoes and a dozen or two of hot clams are not viands best fitted to insure quiet repose , so a fit of nightmare brought me to a realizing sense of my indiscretion .
From a chaos of wild dreams was finally evolved a gigantic clam , whose mission it was to devour me as I had devoured its relatives .
The sharp shells gaped before me , a solemn voice said , `` Take her by her little head and eat her quick . ''
Retribution was at hand , and , with a despairing effort to escape by diving , I bumped my head smartly against the wall , and woke up feeling as if there was an earthquake under the bed .
Collecting my scattered wits , I tried to compose myself to slumber again ; but alas !
that fatal feast had murdered sleep , and I vainly tried to lull my wakeful senses with the rustle of woodbine leaves about the window , and the breaking waves upon the beach .
In one of the pauses between the ebb and flow of the waves , I heard a curious sound in the house , -- a muffled sort of moan , coming at regular intervals .
And , as I sat up to make out where it was , another sound caught my attentive ear .
Drip , drip , drip , went something out in the hall , and in an instant the tale told me on Sunset Hill came back with unpleasant vividness .
`` Nonsense !
it is raining , and the roof leaks , '' I said to myself , while a disagreeable thrill went through me , and fancy , aided by indigestion , began to people the house with uncanny inmates .
No rain had fallen for weeks , and peeping through my curtain I saw the big , bright stars shining in a cloudless sky ; so that explanation failed , and still the drip , drip , drip went on .
Likewise the moaning , so distinctly now that it was evident the little back bedroom was next the chamber in which I was quaking at that identical moment .
`` Some one is sleeping there , '' I said , and then recollected that all the rooms were locked , and all the keys but mine in Mrs. Grant 's pocket up at the house .
`` Well , let the goblins enjoy themselves ; I wo n't disturb them if they let me alone .
Some of the ladies thought me brave to dare to sleep here , and it will never do to own I was scared by a foolish story and an odd sound . ''
So down I lay , and said the multiplication table industriously for several minutes , trying to turn a deaf ear to the outer world , and curb my unruly thoughts .
But it was a failure , and , when I found myself saying over and over `` Four times twelve is twenty-four , '' I gave up affecting courage , and went in for a good honest scare .
As a cheerful subject for midnight meditation I kept thinking of B. Tucker , in spite of every effort to abstain .
In vain I recalled the fact that the departed gentleman was `` allers civil to the ladies . ''
I still was in mortal fear lest he might think it necessary to come and apologize in person for `` bothering '' me .
Presently a clock struck three , and I involuntarily gave a groan that beat the ghost 's all hollow , so full of anguish was I at the thought of several hours of weary waiting in such awesome suspense .
I was not sure at what time the daylight would appear , and bitterly regretted not gathering useful information about sunrise , tides , and such things , instead of listening to the foolish gossip of Uncle Peter on the hill-top .
Minute after minute dragged slowly on , and I was just thinking that I should be obliged to shout `` Fire ! ''
as the only means of relief in my power , when a stealthy step under the window gave me a new sensation .
This was a start , not a scare , for the new visitor was a human foe , and I had little fear of such , being possessed of good lungs , strong arms , and a Roman dagger nearly as big as a carving-knife .
That step broke the spell , and , creeping noiselessly to the window , I peeped out to see a dark figure coming up the stem of the tall tree close by , hand over hand , like a sailor or a monkey .
`` Two can play at that game , my friend ; you scare me , and I 'll scare you ; '' and with an actual sense of relief in breaking the oppressive silence , I suddenly flung up the curtain , and , leaning out , brandished my dagger with what I intended to be an awe-inspiring screech , but , owing to the flutter of my breath , the effort ended in a curious mixture of howl and bray .
A most effective sound nevertheless ; for the rascal dropped as if shot , and , with one upward glance at the white figure dimly seen in the starlight , fled as if a legion of goblins were at his heels .
`` What next ? ''
thought I , wondering whether tragedy or comedy would close this eventful night .
I sat and waited , chilly , but valiant , while the weird sounds went on within , and silence reigned without , till the cheerful crow of the punctual `` cockadoo , '' as Margie called him , announced the dawn and laid the ghosts .
A red glow in the east banished my last fear , and , wrapping the drapery of my couch about me , I soon lay down to quiet slumber , quite worn out .
The sun shining in my face waked me ; a bell ringing spasmodically warned me to hurry , and a childish voice calling out , `` Bet-fast is most weady , Miss Wee , '' assured me that sweet little spirits haunted the cottage as well as ghostly ones .
As I left my room to join Margie , who was waiting in the porch , and looking like a rosy morning-glory half-way up the woodbine trellis , I saw two things which caused me to feel that the horrors of the night were not all imaginary .
Just outside the back bedroom door was a damp place , as if that part of the floor had been newly washed ; and when , goaded by curiosity , I peeped through the keyhole of the haunted chamber , my eye distinctly saw an open razor lying on a dusty table .
My vision was limited to that one object , but it was quite enough , and I went up the hill brooding darkly over the secret hidden in my breast .
I longed to tell some one , but was ashamed , and , when asked why so pale and absent-minded , I answered , with a gloomy smile , -- `` It is the clams . ''
All day I hid my sufferings pretty well , but as night approached , and I thought of another lonely vigil in the haunted cottage , my heart began to fail , and , when we sat telling stories in the dusk , a brilliant idea came into my head .
I would relate my ghost story , and rouse the curiosity of the listeners to such a pitch that some of them would offer to share my quarters , in hopes of seeing the spirit of the restless Tucker .
Cheered by this delusive fancy , when my turn came I made a thrilling tale of the night 's adventures , and , having worked my audience up to a flattering state of excitement , paused for applause .
It came in a most unexpected form , however , for Mrs. Grant burst out laughing , and the two boys , Johnny and Joe , rolled off the piazza in convulsions of merriment .
Much disgusted at this unseemly demonstration , I demanded the cause of it , and involuntarily joined in the general shout when Mrs. Grant demolished my ghost by informing me that Bezee Tucker lived , died in , and haunted the tumble-down house at the other end of the lane .
`` Then who or what made those mysterious noises ? ''
I asked , relieved but rather nettled at the downfall of my romance .
`` My brother Seth , '' replied Mrs. Grant , still laughing .
`` I thought you might be afraid to be there all alone , so he slipped into the bedroom , and I forgot to tell you .
He 's a powerful snorer , and that 's one of the awful sounds .
The other was the dripping of salt water ; for you wanted some , and the girl got it in a leaky pail .
Seth wiped up the slops when he came out early in the morning . ''
I said nothing about the keyhole view of the harmless razor , but , feeling that I did deserve some credit for my heroic reception of the burglar , I mildly asked if it was the custom in York for men as well as turkeys to roost in trees .
An explosion from the boys extinguished my last hope of glory , for as soon as he could speak Joe answered , unable to resist the joke , though telling it betrayed his own transgressions .
`` Johnny planned to be up awful early , and pick the last cherries off that tree .
I wanted to get ahead of him , so I sneaked down before light to humbug him , for I was going a-fishing , and we have to be off by four . ''
`` Did you get your cherries ? ''
I asked , bound to have some of the laugh on my side .
`` Guess I did n't , '' grumbled Joe , rubbing his knees , while Johnny added , with an exulting chuckle , -- `` He got a horrid scare and a right good scraping , for he did n't know any one was down there .
Could n't go fishing either , he was so lame , and I had the cherries after all .
Served him right , did n't it ? ''
No answer was necessary , for the two lads indulged in a friendly scuffle among the hay-cocks , while Mrs. Grant went off to repeat the tale in the kitchen , whence the sound of a muffled roar soon assured me that Seth was enjoying the joke as well as the rest of us .
XII .
KITTY 'S CATTLE SHOW .
Little Kitty was an orphan , and she lived in the poor-house , where she ran errands , tended babies , and was everybody 's servant .
A droll , happy-hearted child , who did her best to be good , and was never tired of hoping that something pleasant would happen .
She had often heard of Cattle Shows , but had never been to one , though she lived in a town where there was one every year .
As October came , and people began to get ready for the show , Kitty was seized with a strong desire to go , and asked endless questions about it of old Sam , who lived in the house .
`` Did you say anybody could go in for nothing if they took something to show ? ''
she asked .
`` Yes ; and them that has the best fruit , or cows , or butter , or whatever it is , they gets a premium , '' said Sam , chopping away .
`` What 's a primmynum ? ''
asked Kitty , forgetting to pick up chips , in her interest .
`` It 's money ; some gets a lot , and some only a dollar , or so . ''
`` I wish I had something nice to show , but I do n't own anything but puss , '' and the little girl stroked the plump , white kitten that was frisking all over her .
`` Better send her ; she 's pretty enough to fetch a prize anywheres , '' said Sam , who was fond of both Kittys .
`` Do they have cats there ? ''
asked the child , soberly .
`` Ought to , if they do n't , for , if cats aint cattle , I do n't see what they be , '' and old Sam laughed , as if he had made a joke .
`` I mean to take her and see the show , any way , for that will be splendid , even if she do n't get any money !
O , puss , will you go , and behave well , and get a primmynum for me , so I can buy a book of stories ? ''
cried Kitty , upsetting her basket in her sudden skip at the fine plan .
Puss turned a somersault , raced after a chicken , and then rushed up her mistress ' back , and , perching demurely on her shoulder , peeped into her face , as if asking if pranks like these would n't win a prize anywhere .
`` You are going to take Mr. Green 's hens for him ; ca n't I go with you ?
I wo n't be any trouble , and I do so want to see the fun , '' added Kitty , after thinking over her plan a few minutes .
Now , Sam meant to take her , but had not told her so yet , and now , being a waggish old fellow , he thought he would let her take her cat , for the joke of it , so he said soberly , -- `` Yes , I 'll tuck you in somewheres , and you 'd better put puss into the blackbird 's old cage , else she will get scared , and run away .
You stand it among the chicken-coops , and folks will admire her , I aint a doubt . ''
Innocent little Kitty was in raptures at the prospect , though the people in the house laughed at her .
But she firmly believed it was all right , and made her preparations with solemn care .
The old cage was scrubbed till the wires shone , then she trimmed it up with evergreen , and put a bed of scarlet leaves for snowy puss to lie on .
Puss was washed , and combed , and decked with a blue bow on the grand day , and , when she had been persuaded to enter her pretty prison , the effect was charming .
A happier little lass was seldom seen than Kitty when , dressed in her clean , blue check frock , and the old hat , with a faded ribbon , she rode away with Sam ; and behind , among the hen-coops , was Miss Puss , much excited by the clucking and fluttering of her fellow-travellers .
When the show grounds were reached , Kitty thought the bustle and the noise quite as interesting as the cattle ; and when , after putting his poultry in its place , Sam led her up into the great hall where the fruit and flowers were , she began to imagine that the fairy tales were coming true .
While she stood staring at some very astonishing worsted-work pictures , a lady , who was arranging fruit near by , upset a basket of fine peaches , and they rolled away under tables and chairs .
`` I 'll pick 'em up , ma'am , '' cried Kitty , who loved to be useful ; and down she went on her hands and knees , and carefully picked up every runaway .
`` What is your name , my obliging little girl ? ''
asked the lady , as she brushed up the last yellow peach .
`` Kitty ; and I live at the poor-house ; and I never saw a Cattle Show before , 'cause I did n't have any thing to bring , '' said the child , feeling as important with her cat as a whole agricultural society .
`` What did you bring , -- patchwork ? ''
`` O , no , ma'am , a lovely cat , and she is down stairs with the hens , -- all white , with blue eyes and a blue bow , '' cried Kitty .
`` I want to see her , '' said a little girl , popping her head up from behind the table , where she had bashfully hidden from the stranger .
The lady consented , and the children went away together .
While they were gone , Sam came to find his little friend , and the kind lady , amused at the cat story , asked about the child .
`` She aint no friends but me and the kitten , so I thought I 'd give the poor little soul a bit of pleasure .
The quarter I 'll get for fetching Green 's hens will get Kitty some dinner , and a book maybe , or something to remember Cattle Show by .
Should n't wonder if I earned a trifle more doing chores round to-day ; if so , I shall give it to her for a premium , 'cause I fetched the cat for fun , and would n't like to disappoint the child . ''
As Sam laughed , and rubbed his rough hands over the joke of surprising Kitty , the lady looked at his kind old face , and resolved to give him a pleasure , too , and of the sort he liked .
She was rich and generous , and , when her little girl came back , begging her to buy the lovely kitten , she said she would , and put five dollars into Sam 's hands , telling him that was Kitty 's premium , to be used in buying clothes and comforts for the motherless child .
Kitty was quite willing to sell puss , for five dollars seemed a splendid fortune to her .
Such a happy day as that was , for she saw everything , had a good dinner , bought `` Babes in the Wood '' of a peddler , and , best of all , made friends .
Miss Puss was brought up by her new mistress , and put on a table among the flowers , where the pretty cage and the plump , tricksy kitten attracted much attention , for the story was told , and the little girl 's droll contribution much laughed over .
But the poor-house people did n't laugh , for they were so surprised and delighted at this unexpected success that they were never tired of talking about Kitty 's Cattle Show .
XIII .
WHAT BECOMES OF THE PINS .
Miss Ellen was making a new pincushion , and a very pretty one it promised to be , for she had much taste , and spent half her time embroidering chair-covers , crocheting tidies , and all sorts of dainty trifles .
Her room was full of them ; and she often declared that she did wish some one would invent a new sort of fancy-work , since she had tried all the old kinds till she was tired of them .
Painting china , carving wood , button-holing butterflies and daisies onto Turkish towelling , and making peacock-feather trimming , amused her for a time ; but as she was not very successful she soon gave up trying these branches , and wondered if she would not take a little plain sewing for a change .
The old cushion stood on her table beside the new one ; which was ready for its trimming of lace and ribbon .
A row of delicate new pins also lay waiting to adorn the red satin mound , and in the old blue one still remained several pins that had evidently seen hard service .
Miss Ellen was putting a dozen needles into her book , having just picked them out of the old cushion , and , as she quilted them through the flannel leaves , she said half aloud , -- `` It is very evident where the needles go , but I really do wish I knew what becomes of the pins . ''
`` I can tell you , '' answered a small , sharp voice , as a long brass pin tried to straighten itself up in the middle of a faded blue cornflower , evidently prepared to address the meeting .
Miss Ellen stared much surprised , for she had used this big pin a good deal lately , but never heard it speak before .
As she looked at it she saw for the first time that its head had a tiny face , with silvery hair , two merry eyes , and a wee mouth out of which came the metallic little voice that pierced her ear , small as it was .
`` Dear me ! ''
she said ; then added politely , `` if you can tell I should be very happy to hear , for it has long been a great mystery , and no one could explain it . ''
The old pin tried to sit erect , and the merry eye twinkled as it went on like a garrulous creature , glad to talk after long silence : -- `` Men make many wonderful discoveries , my dear , but they have never found that out , and never will , because we belong to women , and only a feminine ear can hear us , a feminine mind understand our mission , or sympathize with our trials , experiences , and triumphs .
For we have all these as well as human beings , and there really is not much difference between us when we come to look into the matter . ''
This was such a curious statement that Miss Ellen forgot her work to listen intently , and all the needles fixed their eyes on the audacious pin .
Not a whit abashed it thus continued : -- `` I am called ` Granny ' among my friends , because I have had a long and eventful life .
I am hearty and well , however , in spite of this crick in my back , and hope to serve you a good while yet , for you seem to appreciate me , stout and ordinary as I look .
`` Yes , my dear , pins and people are alike , and that rusty darning-needle need not stare so rudely , for I shall prove what I say .
We are divided into classes by birth and constitution , and each can do much in its own sphere .
I am a shawl pin , and it would be foolish in me to aspire to the duties of those dainty lace pins made to fasten a collar .
I am contented with my lot , however , and , being of a strong make and enterprising spirit , have had many adventures , some perils , and great satisfactions since I left the factory long ago .
I well remember how eagerly I looked about me when the paper in which I lived , with some hundreds of relations , was hung up in a shop window , to display our glittering ranks and tempt people to buy .
At last a purchaser came , a dashing young lady who bought us with several other fancy articles , and carried us away in a smart little bag , humming and talking to herself , in what I thought a very curious way .
`` When we were taken out I was all in a flutter to see where I was and what would happen next .
There were so many of us , I could hardly hope to go first , for I was in the third row , and most people take us in order .
But Cora was a hasty , careless soul , and pulled us out at random , so I soon found myself stuck up in a big untidy cushion , with every sort of pin you can imagine .
Such a gay and giddy set I never saw , and really , my dear , their ways and conversation were quite startling to an ignorant young thing like me .
Pearl , coral , diamond , jet , gold , and silver heads , were all around me as well as vulgar brass knobs , jaunty black pins , good for nothing as they snap at the least strain , and my own relations , looking eminently neat and respectable among this theatrical rabble .
For I will not disguise from you , Miss Ellen , that my first mistress was an actress , and my life a very gay one at the beginning .
Merry , kind , and careless was the pretty Cora , and I am bound to confess I enjoyed myself immensely , for I was taken by chance with half a dozen friends to pin up the folds of her velvet train and mantle , in a fairy spectacle where she played the queen .
It was very splendid , and , snugly settled among the soft folds , I saw it all , and probably felt that I too had my part ; humble as it was , it was faithfully performed , and I never once deserted my post for six weeks .
`` Among the elves who went flitting about with silvery wings and spangled robes was one dear child who was the good genius of the queen , and was always fluttering near her , so I could not help seeing and loving the dear creature .
She danced and sung , came out of flowers , swung down from trees , popped up from the lower regions , and finally , when all the queen 's troubles are over , flew away on a golden cloud , smiling through a blaze of red light , and dropping roses as she vanished .
`` When the play ended , I used to see her in an old dress , a thin shawl , and shabby hat , go limping home with a tired-looking woman who dressed the girls .
`` I thought a good deal about ` Little Viola , ' as they called her , -- though her real name was Sally , I believe , -- and one dreadful night I played a heroic part , and thrill now when I remember it . ''
`` Go on , please , I long to know , '' said Miss Ellen , dropping the needle-book into her lap , and leaning forward to listen better .
`` One evening the theatre took fire , '' continued the old pin impressively .
`` I do n't know how , but all of a sudden there was a great uproar , smoke , flames , water pouring , people running frantically about , and such a wild panic I lost my small wits for a time .
When I recovered them , I found Cora was leaning from a high window , with something wrapped closely in the velvet mantle that I pinned upon the left shoulder just under a paste buckle that only sparkled while I did all the work .
`` A little golden head lay close by me , and a white face looked up from the crimson folds , but the sweet eyes were shut , the lips were drawn with pain , a horrible odor of burnt clothes came up to me , and the small hand that clutched Cora 's neck was all blistered with the cruel fire which would have devoured the child if my brave mistress had not rescued her at the risk of her own life .
She could have escaped at first , but she heard Sally cry to her through the blinding smoke , and went to find and rescue her .
I dimly recalled that , and pressed closer to the white shoulder , full of pride and affection for the kind soul whom I had often thought too gay and giddy to care for anything but pleasure .
`` Now she was calling to the people in the street to put up a ladder , and , as she leaned and called , I could see the crowds far down , the smoke and flame bursting out below , and hear the hiss of water as it fell upon the blazing walls .
It was a most exciting moment , as we hung there , watching the gallant men fix the long ladder , and one come climbing up till we could see his brave face , and hear him shout cheerily , -- '' ` Swing from the window-sill , I 'll catch you . '
`` But Cora answered , as she showed the little yellow head that shone in the red glare , -- '' ` No , save the child first ! ' ''
` Drop her then , and be quick : it 's hot work here , ' and the man held up his arms with a laugh , as the flames licked out below as if to eat away the frail support he stood on .
`` All in one breathless moment , Cora had torn off the mantle , wrapped the child in it , bound her girdle about it , and finding the gaudy band would not tie , caught out the first pin that came to hand , and fastened it .
I was that pin ; and I felt that the child 's life almost depended upon me , for as the precious bundle dropped into the man 's hands he caught it by the cloak , and , putting it on his shoulder , went swiftly down .
The belt strained , the velvet tore , I felt myself bending with the weight , and expected every minute to see the child slip , and fall on the stones below .
But I held fast , I drove my point deeply in , I twisted myself round so that even the bend should be a help , and I called to the man , ` Hold tight , I 'm trying my best , but what can one pin do ! '
`` Of course he did not hear me , but I really believe my desperate efforts were of some use ; for , we got safely down , and were hurried away to the hospital where other poor souls had already gone .
`` The good nurse who undid that scorched , drenched , and pitiful bundle , stuck me in her shawl , and resting there , I saw the poor child laid in a little bed , her burns skilfully cared for , and her scattered senses restored by tender words and motherly kisses .
How glad I was to hear that she would live , and still more rejoiced to learn next day that Cora was near by , badly burned but not in danger , and anxious to see the child she had saved .
`` Nurse Benson took the little thing in her arms to visit my poor mistress , and I went too .
But alas !
I never should have known the gay and blooming girl of the day before .
Her face and hands were terribly burnt , and she would never again be able to play the lovely queen on any stage , for her fresh beauty was forever lost .
`` Hard days for all of us ; I took my share of trouble with the rest , though I only suffered from the strain to my back .
Nurse Benson straightened me out and kept me in use , so I saw much of pain and patience in that great house , because the little gray shawl which I fastened covered a tender heart , and on that motherly bosom many aching heads found rest , many weary creatures breathed their last , and more than one unhappy soul learned to submit .
`` Among these last was poor Cora , for it was very hard to give up beauty , health , and the life she loved , so soon .
Yet I do not think she ever regretted the sacrifice when she saw the grateful child well and safe , for little Sally was her best comforter , and through the long weeks she lay there half blind and suffering , the daily visit of the little one cheered her more than anything else .
The poor mother was lost in the great fire , and Cora adopted the orphan as her own , and surely she had a right to what she had so dearly bought .
`` They went away together at last , one quite well and strong again , the other a sad wreck , but a better woman for the trial , I think , and she carried comfort with her .
Poor little Sally led her , a faithful guide , a tender nurse , a devoted daughter to her all her life . ''
Here the pin paused , out of breath , and Miss Ellen shook a bright drop off the lace that lay in her lap , as she said in a tone of real interest , -- `` What happened next ?
How long did you stay in the hospital ? ''
`` I stayed a year , for Nurse used me one day to pin up a print at the foot of a poor man 's bed , and he took such comfort in it they let it hang till he died .
A lovely picture of a person who held out his arms to all the suffering and oppressed , and they gathered about him to be comforted and saved .
The forlorn soul had led a wicked life , and now lay dying a long and painful death , but something in that divine face taught him to hope for pardon , and when no eye but mine saw him in the lonely nights he wept , and prayed , and struggled to repent .
I think he was forgiven , for when at last he lay dead a smile was on his lips that never had been there before .
Then the print was taken down , and I was used to pin up a bundle of red flannel by one of the women , and for months I lay in a dark chest , meditating on the lessons I had already learned .
`` Suddenly I was taken out , and when a queer round pin-ball of the flannel had been made by a nice old lady , I was stuck in it with a party of fat needles , and a few of my own race , all with stout bodies and big heads . ''
` The dear boy is clumsy with his fingers , and needs strong things to use , ' said the old lady , as she held the tomato cushion in both hands and kissed it before she put it into a soldier 's ` comfort bag . ' ''
` Now I shall have a lively time ! '
I thought , and looked gaily about me , for I liked adventures , and felt that I was sure of them now .
`` I can not begin to tell you all I went through with that boy , for he was brave as a lion and got many hard knocks .
We marched , and camped , and fought , and suffered , but we never ran away , and when at last a Minie ball came smashing through the red cushion -LRB- which Dick often carried in his pocket as a sort of charm to keep him safe , for men seldom use pins -RRB- , I nearly lost my head , for the stuffing flew out , and we were all knocked about in a dreadful way .
The cushion and the old wallet together saved Dick 's life , however , for the ball did not reach his brave heart , and the last I saw of him as I fell out of the hasty hand that felt for a wound was a soft look in the brave bright eyes , as he said to himself with a smile , -- '' ` Dear old mother has n't lost her boy yet , thank God ! '
`` A colored lad picked me up , as I lay shining on the grass , and pins being scarce in those parts , gave me to his mammy , who kept me to fasten her turban .
Quite a new scene I found , for in the old cabin were a dozen children and their mothers making ready to go North .
The men were all away fighting or serving the army , so mammy led the little troop , and they marched off one day following the gay turban like a banner , for she had a valiant soul , and was bound to find safety and freedom for her children at all risks .
`` In my many wanderings to and fro , I never made so strange a journey as that one , but I enjoyed it , full of danger , weariness and privation as it was ; and every morning when mammy put on the red and yellow handkerchief I was proud to sit aloft on that good gray head , and lead the forlorn little army toward a land of liberty .
`` We got there at last , and she fell to work over a washtub to earn the bread for the hungry mouths .
I had stood by her through all those weary weeks , and did not want to leave her now , but went off pinning a paper round some clean clothes on a Saturday morning . ''
` Now I wonder what will come next ! '
I thought , as Thomas Jefferson , or ` Jeff , ' as they called him , went whistling away with the parcel through the streets .
`` Crossing the park , he spied a lovely butterfly which had strayed in from the country ; caught and pinned it on his hat to please little Dinah when he got home .
The pretty creature soon writhed its delicate life away , but its beauty attracted the eye of a pale girl hurrying along with a roll of work under her arm . ''
` Will you sell me that ? '
she asked , and Jeff gladly consented , wondering what she would do with it .
So did I , but when we got to her room I soon saw , for she pinned the impaled butterfly against a bit of blue paper , and painted it so well that its golden wings seemed to quiver as they did in life .
A very poor place it was , but full of lovely things , and I grew artistic with just looking about me at the pictures on the walls , the flowers blooming on plates and panels , birds and insects kept for copies , and gay bits of stuff used as back-grounds .
`` But more beautiful than anything she made was the girl 's quiet , busy life alone in the big city ; for , she was hoping to be an artist , and worked day and night to compass her desire .
So poor , but so happy , I used to wonder why no one helped her and kept her from such hard , yet patient , waiting .
But no one did , and I could watch her toiling away as I held the butterfly against the wall , feeling as if it was a symbol of herself , beating her delicate wings in that close place till her heart was broken , by the cruel fate that held her there when she should have been out in the free sunshine .
But she found a good customer for her pretty work , in a rich lady who had nothing to do but amuse herself , and spent much time and money in fancy-work .
`` I know all about it ; for , one day an order came from the great store where her designs were often bought , and she was very happy painting some purple pansies upon velvet , and she copied her yellow butterfly to float above them .
`` The poor insect was very dry , and crumbled at a touch , so my task there was done , and as my mistress rolled up the packet , she took me to fasten it securely , singing as she did so , for every penny was precious .
`` We all went together to the rich lady , and she embroidered the flowers on a screen very like that one yonder .
I thought she would throw me away , I was so battered now , but she took a fancy to use me in various ways about her canvas work , and I lived with her all winter .
A kind lady , my dear , but I often wished I could suggest to her better ways of spending her life than everlasting fancy-work .
She never seemed to see the wants of those about her , never lent an ear to the poor , or found delight in giving of her abundance to those who had little , to brighten their lives ; but sighed because she had nothing to do when the world was full of work , and she blessed with so many good gifts to use and to enjoy .
I hope she will see her mistake some day , and not waste all her life on trifles , else she will regret it sadly by and by . ''
Here the pin paused with a keen glance at Miss Ellen , who had suddenly begun to sew with a bright color in her cheeks , for the purple pansies were on the screen that stood before her fire-place , and she recognized the portrait of herself in that last description .
But she did not fancy being lectured by a pin , so she asked with a smile as she plaited up her lace , -- `` That is all very interesting , but you have not yet told me what becomes of the pins , Granny . ''
`` Pins , like people , shape their own lives , in a great measure , my dear , and go to their reward when they are used up .
The good ones sink into the earth and turn to silver , to come forth again in a new and precious form .
The bad ones crumble away to nothing in cracks and dust heaps , with no hope of salvation , unless some human hand lifts them up and gives them a chance to try again .
Some are lazy , and slip out of sight to escape service , some are too sharp , and prick and scratch wherever they are .
Others are poor , weak things , who bend up and lose their heads as soon as they are used .
Some obtrude themselves on all occasions , and some are never to be found in times of need .
All have the choice to wear out or to rust out .
I chose the former , and have had a useful , happy life so far .
I 'm not as straight as I once was , but I 'm bright still , my point is sharp , my head firm , and age has not weakened me much , I hope , but made me wiser , better , and more contented to do my duty wherever I am , than when I left my native paper long ago . ''
Before Miss Ellen could express her respect for the worthy old pin , a dismal groan was heard from the blue cushion , and a small voice croaked aloud , -- `` Alas , alas , I chose to rust out , and here I am , a miserable , worthless thing , whom no one can use or care for .
Lift the ruffle , and behold a sad contrast to the faithful , honest , happy Granny , who has told us such a varied tale . ''
`` Bless me , what possesses everything to-day ! ''
exclaimed Miss Ellen , looking under the frill of the old cushion to see who was speaking now .
There to be sure she found a pin hidden away , and so rusty that she could hardly pull it out .
But it came creaking forth at the third tug , and when it was set up beside Granny , she cried out in her cheery way , -- `` Try Dr. Emery , he can cure most cases of rust , and it is never too late to mend , neighbor . ''
`` Too late for me ! ''
sighed the new comer .
`` The rust of idleness has eaten into my vitals while I lay in my silken bed , and my chance is gone forever .
I was bright , and strong , and sharp once , but I feared work and worry , and I hid , growing duller , dimmer , and more useless every day .
I am good for nothing , throw me away , and let the black pins mourn for a wasted life . ''
`` No , '' said Miss Ellen , `` you are not useless , for you two shall sit together in my new cushion , a warning to me , as well as to the other pins , to choose the right way in time , and wear out with doing our duty , rather than rust out as so many do .
Thank you , Granny , for your little lecture .
I will not forget it , but go at once and find that poor girl , and help her all I can .
Rest here , you good old soul , and teach these little things to follow your example . ''
As she spoke , Miss Ellen set the two pins in the middle of the red satin cushion , stuck the smaller pins round them , and hastened to put on her shawl lest something should prevent her from going .
`` Take me with you ; I 'm not tired , I love to work !
use me , dear mistress , and let me help in the good work ! ''
cried Granny , with a lively skip that sent her out upon the bureau .
So Miss Ellen pinned her shawl with the old pin instead of the fine brooch she had in her hand , and they went gaily away together , leaving the rusty one to bemoan itself , and all the little ones to privately resolve that they would not hide away from care and labor , but take their share bravely and have a good record to show when they went , at last where the good pins go .
THE END .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
LITTLE MEN ; OR , LIFE AT PLUMFIELD WITH JO 'S BOYS .
Price , $ 1.50 .
-LSB- Illustration : '' ` I 'm not hurt , all right in a minute , ' he said , sitting up , a little pale and dizzy , as the boys gathered round him , full of admiration and alarm . ''
-- PAGE 251 . -RSB-
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS WORK : A STORY OF EXPERIENCE .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- `` An endless significance lies in work ; in idleness alone is there perpetual despair . ''
-- CARLYLE .
PRICE , $ 1.75 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
ROSE IN BLOOM .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- A SEQUEL TO `` EIGHT COUSINS . ''
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG .
CUPID AND CHOW-CHOW , ETC. .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT , AUTHOR OF `` LITTLE WOMEN , '' `` AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL , '' `` LITTLE MEN , '' `` HOSPITAL SKETCHES . ''
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Sing , Tessa ; sing ! ''
cried Tommo , twanging away with all his might .
-- PAGE 47 . -RSB-
AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG : Containing `` My Boys , '' `` Shawl-Straps , '' `` Cupid and Chow-Chow , '' `` My Girls , '' `` Jimmy 's Cruise in the Pinafore . ''
5 vols .
Price of each , $ 1.00 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : `` One hand stirred gruel for sick America , and the other hugged baby Africa . ''
-- PAGE 76 . -RSB-
HOSPITAL SKETCHES .
Price , $ 1.50 .
* * * * * MICE AT PLAY .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I pulled it full of water , and then I poked the pipe end into her ear , and then I let it fly . '' -RSB-
`` WHEN THE CAT 'S AWAY , THE MICE WILL PLAY . ''
A STORY FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY .
By NEIL FOREST .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL .
PRICE $ 1.50 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
LITTLE WOMEN ; OR , MEG , JO , BETH , AND AMY .
Parts First and Second .
Price of each , $ 1.50 .
-LSB- Illustration : JO IN A VORTEX .
-- Every few weeks she would shut herself up in her room , put on her scribbling suit , and `` fall into a vortex , '' as she expressed it .
-- PAGE 44 . -RSB-
* * * * * SUSAN COOLIDGE 'S POPULAR BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : NANNY 'S SUBSTITUTE .
Nanny at the Fair , taking orders and carrying trays .
-- PAGE 171 . -RSB-
MISCHIEF 'S THANKSGIVING , AND OTHER STORIES .
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ADDIE LEDYARD .
One handsome square 16mo volume , bound in cloth , black and gilt lettered .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * BOB BROWN 'S BOY-BOOK .
-LSB- Illustration : `` WILL BRADLEY AND I. '' -RSB- WE BOYS .
Written by one of us for the amusement of Pa 's and Ma 's in general , Aunt Lovisa in particular .
PRICE $ 1.00 .
* * * * * H. H. 'S YOUNG FOLKS ' BOOK .
BITS OF TALK , IN VERSE AND PROSE , FOR YOUNG FOLKS .
BY H. H. , AUTHOR OF `` BITS OF TALK ABOUT HOME MATTERS , '' `` BITS OF TRAVEL , '' `` VERSES . ''
-LSB- Illustration : '' -- in all the lands No such morning-glory . ''
-- PAGE 133 . -RSB-
PRICE $ 1.00 .
* * * * * JOLLY GOOD TIMES ; -LSB- Illustration -RSB- OR , CHILD LIFE ON A FARM .
BY P. THORNE .
Price $ 1.25 .
* * * * * LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON 'S STORIES .
-LSB- Illustration : JUST A LITTLE BIT OF CHRISTMAS .
-- PAGE 153 . -RSB-
BED-TIME STORIES .
MORE BED-TIME STORIES .
With Illustrations by Addie Ledyard .
Two handsome square 16mo volumes , bound in cloth , black and gilt lettered .
Price , $ 1.50 each .
* * * * * HAMERTON 'S BOY-BOOK .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- HARRY BLOUNT .
Passages in a Boy 's Life on Land and Sea .
By PHILIP GILBERT HAMERTON .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * SUSAN COOLIDGE 'S POPULAR BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : ENTERING PARADISE .
-- PAGE 23 .
So in they marched , Katy and Cecy heading the procession , and Dorry , with his great trailing bunch of boughs , bringing up the rear . -RSB-
WHAT KATY DID .
With Illustrations by Addie Ledyard .
One handsome , square 16mo volume , bound in cloth , black and gilt lettered .
Price , $ 1.50 .
These books are sold by all booksellers and newsdealers everywhere .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Aunt_Jo's_Scrap-Bag.txt.out
MY BOYS .
Feeling that I have been unusually fortunate in my knowledge of a choice and pleasing variety of this least appreciated portion of the human race , I have a fancy to record some of my experiences , hoping that it may awaken an interest in other minds , and cause other people to cultivate the delightful , but too often neglected boys , who now run to waste , so to speak .
I have often wondered what they thought of the peculiar treatment they receive , even at the hands of their nearest friends .
While they are rosy , roly-poly little fellows they are petted and praised , adorned and adored , till it is a miracle that they are not utterly ruined .
But the moment they outgrow their babyhood their trials begin , and they are regarded as nuisances till they are twenty-one , when they are again received into favor .
Yet that very time of neglect is the period when they most need all manner of helps , and ought to have them .
I like boys and oysters raw ; so , though good manners are always pleasing , I do n't mind the rough outside burr which repels most people , and perhaps that is the reason why the burrs open and let me see the soft lining and taste the sweet nut hidden inside .
My first well-beloved boy was a certain Frank , to whom I clung at the age of seven with a devotion which I fear he did not appreciate .
There were six girls in the house , but I would have nothing to say to them , preferring to tag after Frank , and perfectly happy when he allowed me to play with him .
I regret to say that the small youth was something of a tyrant , and one of his favorite amusements was trying to make me cry by slapping my hands with books , hoop-sticks , shoes , anything that came along capable of giving a good stinging blow .
I believe I endured these marks of friendship with the fortitude of a young Indian , and felt fully repaid for a blistered palm by hearing Frank tell the other boys , ` She 's a brave little thing , and you ca n't make her cry . '
My chief joy was in romping with him in the long galleries of a piano manufactory behind our house .
What bliss it was to mount one of the cars on which the workmen rolled heavy loads from room to room , and to go thundering down the inclined plains , regardless of the crash that usually awaited us at the bottom !
If I could have played foot-ball on the Common with my Frank and Billy Babcock , life could have offered me no greater joy at that period .
As the prejudices of society forbid this sport , I revenged myself by driving hoop all around the mall without stopping , which the boys could not do .
I can remember certain happy evenings , when we snuggled in sofa corners and planned tricks and ate stolen goodies , and sometimes Frank would put his curly head in my lap and let me stroke it when he was tired .
What the girls did I do n't recollect ; their domestic plays were not to my taste , and the only figure that stands out from the dimness of the past is that jolly boy with a twinkling eye .
This memory would be quite radiant but for one sad thing -- a deed that cut me to the soul then , and which I have never quite forgiven in all these years .
On one occasion I did something very naughty , and when called up for judgment fled to the dining-room , locked the door , and from my stronghold defied the whole world .
I could have made my own terms , for it was near dinner time and the family must eat ; but , alas for the treachery of the human heart !
Frank betrayed me .
He climbed in at the window , unlocked the door , and delivered me up to the foe .
Nay , he even defended the base act , and helped bear the struggling culprit to imprisonment .
That nearly broke my heart , for I believed he would stand by me as staunchly as I always stood by him .
It was a sad blow , and I could n't love or trust him any more .
Peanuts and candy , ginger-snaps and car-rides were unavailing ; even foot-ball could not reunite the broken friendship , and to this day I recollect the pang that entered my little heart when I lost my faith in the loyalty of my first boy .
The second attachment was of quite a different sort , and had a happier ending .
At the mature age of ten , I left home for my first visit to a family of gay and kindly people in -- well why not say right out ?
-- Providence .
There were no children , and at first I did not mind this , as every one petted me , especially one of the young men named Christopher .
So kind and patient , yet so merry was this good Christy that I took him for my private and particular boy , and loved him dearly ; for he got me out of innumerable scrapes , and never was tired of amusing the restless little girl who kept the family in a fever of anxiety by her pranks .
He never laughed at her mishaps and mistakes , never played tricks upon her like a certain William , who composed the most trying nicknames , and wickedly goaded the wild visitor into all manner of naughtiness .
Christy stood up for her through everything ; let her ride the cows , feed the pigs , bang on the piano , and race all over the spice mill , feasting on cinnamon and cloves ; brought her down from housetops and fished her out of brooks ; never scolded , and never seemed tired of the troublesome friendship of little Torment .
In a week I had exhausted every amusement and was desperately homesick .
It has always been my opinion that I should have been speedily restored to the bosom of my family but for Christy , and but for him I should assuredly have run away before the second week was out .
He kept me , and in the hour of my disgrace stood by me like a man and a brother .
One afternoon , inspired by a spirit of benevolence , enthusiastic but short-sighted , I collected several poor children in the barn , and regaled them on cake and figs , helping myself freely to the treasures of the pantry without asking leave , meaning to explain afterward .
Being discovered before the supplies were entirely exhausted , the patience of the long-suffering matron gave out , and I was ordered up to the garret to reflect upon my sins , and the pleasing prospect of being sent home with the character of the worst child ever known .
My sufferings were deep as I sat upon a fuzzy little trunk all alone in the dull garret , thinking how hard it was to do right , and wondering why I was scolded for feeding the poor when we were expressly bidden to do so .
I felt myself an outcast , and bewailed the disgrace I had brought upon my family .
Nobody could possibly love such a bad child ; and if the mice were to come and eat me then and there --  la Bishop Hatto -- it would only be a relief to my friends .
At this dark moment I heard Christy say below , ` She meant it kindly , so I would n't mind , Fanny ; ' and then up came my boy full of sympathy and comfort .
Seeing the tragic expression of my face , he said not a word , but , sitting down in an old chair , took me on his knee and held me close and quietly , letting the action speak for itself .
It did most eloquently ; for the kind arm seemed to take me back from that dreadful exile , and the friendly face to assure me without words that I had not sinned beyond forgiveness .
I had not shed a tear before , but now I cried tempestuously , and clung to him like a shipwrecked little mariner in a storm .
Neither spoke , but he held me fast and let me cry myself to sleep ; for , when the shower was over , a pensive peace fell upon me , and the dim old garret seemed not a prison , but a haven of refuge , since my boy came to share it with me .
How long I slept I do n't know , but it must have been an hour , at least ; yet my good Christy never stirred , only waited patiently till I woke up in the twilight , and was not afraid because he was there .
He took me down as meek as a mouse , and kept me by him all that trying evening , screening me from jokes , rebukes , and sober looks ; and when I went to bed he came up to kiss me , and to assure me that this awful circumstance should not be reported at home .
This took a load off my heart , and I remember fervently thanking him , and telling him I never would forget it .
I never have , though he died long ago , and others have probably forgotten all about the naughty prank .
I often longed to ask him how he knew the surest way to win a child 's heart by the patience , sympathy , and tender little acts that have kept his memory green for nearly thirty years .
Cy was a comrade after my own heart , and for a summer or two we kept the neighbourhood in a ferment by our adventures and hair-breadth escapes .
I think I never knew a boy so full of mischief , and my opportunities of judging have been manifold .
He did not get into scrapes himself , but possessed a splendid talent for deluding others into them , and then morally remarking , ` There , I told you so ! '
His way of saying ` You dars ` nt do this or that ' was like fire to powder ; and why I still live in the possession of all my limbs and senses is a miracle to those who know my youthful friendship with Cy .
It was he who incited me to jump off of the highest beam in the barn , to be borne home on a board with a pair of sprained ankles .
It was he who dared me to rub my eyes with red peppers , and then sympathisingly led me home blind and roaring with pain .
It was he who solemnly assured me that all the little pigs would die in agony if their tails were not cut off , and won me to hold thirteen little squealers while the operation was performed .
Those thirteen innocent pink tails haunt me yet , and the memory of that deed has given me a truly Jewish aversion to pork .
I did not know him long , but he was a kindred soul , and must have a place in my list of boys .
He is a big , brown man now , and , having done his part in the war , is at work on his farm .
We meet sometimes , and though we try to be dignified and proper , it is quite impossible ; there is a sly twinkle in Cy 's eye that upsets my gravity , and we always burst out laughing at the memory of our early frolics .
My Augustus !
oh , my Augustus !
my first little lover , and the most romantic of my boys .
At fifteen I met this charming youth , and thought I had found my fate .
It was at a spelling school in a little country town where I , as a stranger and visitor from the city , was an object of interest .
Painfully conscious of this fact , I sat in a corner trying to look easy and elegant , with a large red bow under my chin , and a carnelian ring in full view .
Among the boys and girls who frolicked about me , I saw one lad of seventeen with ` large blue eyes , a noble brow , and a beautiful straight nose , ' as I described him in a letter to my sister .
This attractive youth had a certain air of refinement and ease of manner that the others lacked ; and when I found he was the minister 's son , I felt that I might admire him without loss of dignity .
` Imagine my sensations , ' as Miss Burney 's Evelina says , when this boy came and talked to me , a little bashfully at first , but soon quite freely , and invited me to a huckleberry party next day .
I had observed that he was one of the best spellers .
I also observed that his language was quite elegant ; he even quoted Byron , and rolled his eyes in a most engaging manner , not to mention that he asked who gave me my ring , and said he depended on escorting me to the berry pasture .
` Dear me , how interesting it was !
and when I found myself , next day , sitting under a tree in the sunny field -LRB- full of boys and girls , all more or less lovering -RRB- , with the amiable Augustus at my feet , gallantly supplying me with bushes to strip while we talked about books and poetry , I really felt as if I had got into a novel , and enjoyed it immensely .
I believe a dim idea that Gus was sentimental hovered in my mind , but I would not encourage it , though I laughed in my sleeve when he was spouting Latin for my benefit , and was uncertain whether to box his ears or simper later in the day , when he languished over the gate , and said he thought chestnut hair the loveliest in the world .
Poor , dear boy !
how innocent and soft-hearted and full of splendid dreams he was , and what deliciously romantic times we had floating on the pond , while the frogs sung to his accordion , as he tried to say unutterable things with his honest blue eyes .
It makes me shiver now to think of the mosquitoes and the damp ; but it was Pauline and Claude Melnotte then , and when I went home we promised to be true to one another , and write every week during the year he was away at school .
We parted -- not in tears by any means ; that sort of nonsense comes later , when the romance is less childish -- but quite jolly and comfortable , and I hastened to pour forth the thrilling tale to my faithful sister , who approved of the match , being a perfect ` mush of sentiment ' herself .
I fear it was not a very ardent flame , however , for Gus did not write every week , and I did not care a bit ; nevertheless , I kept his picture and gave it a sentimental sigh when I happened to think of it , while he sent messages now and then , and devoted himself to his studies like an ambitious boy as he was .
I hardly expected to see him again , but soon after the year was out , to my great surprise , he called .
I was so fluttered by the appearance of his card that I rather lost my head , and did such a silly thing that it makes me laugh even now .
He liked chestnut hair , and , pulling out my combs , I rushed down , theatrically dishevelled , hoping to impress my lover with my ardour and my charms .
I expected to find little Gus ; but , to my great confusion , a tall being with a beaver in his hand rose to meet me , looking so big and handsome and generally imposing that I could not recover myself for several minutes , and mentally wailed for my combs , feeling like an untidy simpleton .
I do n't know whether he thought me a little cracked or not , but he was very friendly and pleasant , and told me his plans , and hoped I would make another visit , and smoothed his beaver , and let me see his tail-coat , and behaved himself like a dear , conceited , clever boy .
He did not allude to our love-passages , being shy , and I blessed him for it ; for really , I do n't know what rash thing I might have done under the exciting circumstances .
Just as he was going , however , he forgot his cherished hat for a minute , put out both hands , and said heartily , with his old boyish laugh , -- ` Now you will come , and we 'll go boating and berrying , and all the rest of it again , wo n't we ? '
The blue eyes were full of fun and feeling , too , I fancied , as I blushingly retired behind my locks and gave the promise .
But I never went , and never saw my little lover any more , for in a few weeks he was dead of a fever , brought on by too much study , -- and so ended the sad history of my fourth boy .
After this , for many years , I was a boyless being ; but was so busy I did not feel my destitute condition till I went to the hospital during the war , and found my little sergeant .
His story has been told elsewhere , but the sequel to it is a pleasant one , for Baby B. still writes to me now and then , asks advice about his future , and gladdens me with good news of his success as a business man in Kansas .
As if to atone for the former dearth , a sudden shower of most superior boys fell upon me , after I recovered from my campaign .
Some of the very best sort it was my fortune to know and like -- real gentlemen , yet boys still -- and jolly times they had , stirring up the quiet old town with their energetic society .
There was W. , a stout , amiable youth , who would stand in the middle of a strawberry patch with his hands in his pockets and let us feed him luxuriously .
B. , a delightful scapegrace , who came once a week to confess his sins , beat his breast in despair , vow awful vows of repentance , and then cheerfully depart to break every one of them in the next twenty-four hours .
S. , the gentle-hearted giant ; J. , the dandy ; sober , sensible B. ; and E. , the young knight without reproach or fear .
But my especial boy of the batch was A. -- proud and cold and shy to other people , sad and serious sometimes when his good heart and tender conscience showed him his short-comings , but so grateful for sympathy and a kind word .
I could not get at him as easily as I could the other lads , but , thanks to Dickens , I found him out at last .
We played Dolphus and Sophy Tetterby in the ` Haunted Man , ' at one of the school festivals ; and during the rehearsals I discovered that my Dolphus was -- permit the expression , oh , well-bred readers !
-- a trump .
What fun we had to be sure , acting the droll and pathetic scenes together , with a swarm of little Tetterbys skirmishing about us !
From that time he has been my Dolphus and I his Sophy , and my yellow-haired laddie do n't forget me , though he has a younger Sophy now , and some small Tetterbys of his own .
He writes just the same affectionate letters as he used to do , though I , less faithful , am too busy to answer them .
But the best and dearest of all my flock was my Polish boy , Ladislas Wisniewski -- two hiccoughs and a sneeze will give you the name perfectly .
Six years ago , as I went down to my early breakfast at our Pension in Vevey , I saw that a stranger had arrived .
He was a tall youth , of eighteen or twenty , with a thin , intelligent face , and the charmingly polite manners of a foreigner .
As the other boarders came in , one by one , they left the door open , and a draught of cold autumn air blew in from the stone corridor , making the new-comer cough , shiver , and cast wistful glances towards the warm corner by the stove .
My place was there , and the heat often oppressed me , so I was glad of an opportunity to move .
A word to Madame Vodoz effected the change ; and at dinner I was rewarded by a grateful smile from the poor fellow , as he nestled into his warm seat , after a pause of surprise and a flush of pleasure at the small kindness from a stranger .
We were too far apart to talk much , but , as he filled his glass , the Pole bowed to me , and said low in French -- ' I drink the good health to Mademoiselle . '
I returned the wish , but he shook his head with a sudden shadow on his face , as if the words meant more than mere compliment to him .
` That boy is sick and needs care .
I must see to him , ' said I to myself , as I met him in the afternoon , and observed the military look of his blue and white suit , as he touched his cap and smiled pleasantly .
I have a weakness for brave boys in blue , and having discovered that he had been in the late Polish Revolution , my heart warmed to him at once .
That evening he came to me in the salon , and expressed his thanks in the prettiest broken English I ever heard .
So simple , frank , and grateful was he that a few words of interest won his little story from him , and in half an hour we were friends .
With his fellow-students he had fought through the last outbreak , and suffered imprisonment and hardship rather than submit , had lost many friends , his fortune and his health , and at twenty , lonely , poor , and ill , was trying bravely to cure the malady which seemed fatal .
` If I recover myself of this affair in the chest , I teach the music to acquire my bread in this so hospitable country .
At Paris , my friends , all two , find a refuge , and I go to them in spring if I die not here .
Yes , it is solitary , and my memories are not gay , but I have my work , and the good God remains always to me , so I content myself with much hope , and I wait . '
Such genuine piety and courage increased my respect and regard immensely , and a few minutes later he added to both by one of the little acts that show character better than words .
He told me about the massacre , when five hundred Poles were shot down by Cossacks in the market-place , merely because they sung their national hymn .
` Play me that forbidden air , ' I said , wishing to judge of his skill , for I had heard him practising softly in the afternoon .
He rose willingly , then glanced about the room and gave a little shrug which made me ask what he wanted . '
I look to see if the Baron is here .
He is Russian , and to him my national air will not be pleasing . '
` Then play it .
He dare not forbid it here , and I should rather enjoy that little insult to your bitter enemy , ' said I , feeling very indignant with everything Russian just then .
` Ah , mademoiselle , it is true we are enemies , but we are also gentlemen , ' returned the boy , proving that he at least was one .
I thanked him for his lesson in politeness , and as the Baron was not there he played the beautiful hymn , singing it enthusiastically in spite of the danger to his weak lungs .
A true musician evidently , for , as he sung his pale face glowed , his eyes shone , and his lost vigor seemed restored to him .
From that evening we were fast friends ; for the memory of certain dear lads at home made my heart open to this lonely boy , who gave me in return the most grateful affection and service .
He begged me to call him ` Varjo , ' as his mother did .
He constituted himself my escort , errand-boy , French teacher , and private musician , making those weeks indefinitely pleasant by his winning ways , his charming little confidences , and faithful friendship .
We had much fun over our lessons , for I helped him about his English .
With a great interest in free America , and an intense longing to hear about our war , the barrier of an unknown tongue did not long stand between us .
Beginning with my bad French and his broken English , we got on capitally ; but he outdid me entirely , making astonishing progress , though he often slapped his forehead with the despairing exclamation , -- ' I am imbecile !
I never can will shall to have learn this beast of English ! '
But he did , and in a month had added a new language to the five he already possessed .
His music was the delight of the house ; and he often gave us little concerts with the help of Madame Teiblin , a German St. Cecilia , with a cropped head and a gentlemanly sack , cravat , and collar .
Both were enthusiasts , and the longer they played the more inspired they got .
The piano vibrated , the stools creaked , the candles danced in their sockets , and every one sat mute while the four white hands chased one another up and down the keys , and the two fine faces beamed with such ecstasy that we almost expected to see instrument and performers disappear in a musical whirlwind .
Lake Leman will never seem so lovely again as when Laddie and I roamed about its shores , floated on its bosom , or laid splendid plans for the future in the sunny garden of the old chateau .
I tried it again last year , but the charm was gone , for I missed my boy with his fun , his music , and the frank , fresh affection he gave his ` little mamma , ' as he insisted on calling the lofty spinster who loved him like half-a-dozen grandmothers rolled into one .
December roses blossomed in the gardens then , and Laddie never failed to have a posy ready for me at dinner .
Few evenings passed without ` confidences ' in my corner of the salon , and I still have a pile of merry little notes which I used to find tucked under my door .
He called them chapters of a great history we were to write together , and being a ' polisson ' he illustrated it with droll pictures , and a funny mixture of French and English romance .
It was very pleasant , but like all pleasant things in this world of change it soon came to an end .
When I left for Italy we jokingly agreed to meet in Paris the next May , but neither really felt that we should ever meet again , for Laddie hardly expected to outlive the winter , and I felt sure I should soon be forgotten .
As he kissed my hand there were tears in my boy 's eyes , and a choke in the voice that tried to say cheerfully -- ' Bon voyage , dear and good little mamma .
I do not say adieu , but au revoir . '
Then the carriage rolled away , the wistful face vanished , and nothing remained to me but the memory of Laddie , and a little stain on my glove where a drop had fallen .
As I drew near Paris six months later , and found myself wishing that I might meet Varjo in the great , gay city , and wondering if there was any chance of my doing it , I never dreamed of seeing him so soon ; but , as I made my way among the crowd of passengers that poured through the station , feeling tired , bewildered , and homesick , I suddenly saw a blue and white cap wave wildly in the air , then Laddie 's beaming face appeared , and Laddie 's eager hands grasped mine so cordially that I began to laugh at once , and felt that Paris was almost as good as home .
` Ah , ha !
behold the little mamma , who did not think to see again her bad son !
Yes , I am greatly glad that I make the fine surprise for you as you come all weary to this place of noise .
Give to me the billets , for I am still mademoiselle 's servant and go to find the coffers . '
He got my trunks , put me into a carriage , and as we rolled merrily away I asked how he chanced to meet me so unexpectedly .
Knowing where I intended to stay , he had called occasionally till I notified Madame D. of the day and hour of my arrival , and then he had come to ` make the fine surprise . '
He enjoyed the joke like a true boy , and I was glad to see how well he looked , and how gay he seemed .
` You are better ? '
I said . '
I truly hope so .
The winter was good to me and I cough less .
It is a small hope , but I do not enlarge my fear by a sad face .
I yet work and save a little purse , so that I may not be a heaviness to those who have the charity to finish me if I fall back and yet die . '
I would not hear of that , and told him he looked as well and happy as if he had found a fortune .
He laughed , and answered with his fine bow , ' I have .
Behold , you come to make the fte for me .
I find also here my friends Joseph and Napoleon .
Poor as mouses of the church , as you say , but brave boys , and we work together with much gaiety . '
When I asked if he had leisure to be my guide about Paris , for my time was short and I wanted to see everything ; he pranced , and told me he had promised himself a holiday , and had planned many excursions the most wonderful , charming , and gay .
Then , having settled me at Madame 's , he went blithely away to what I afterwards discovered were very poor lodgings , across the river .
Next day began the pleasantest fortnight in all my year of travel .
Laddie appeared early , elegant to behold , in a new hat and buff gloves , and was immensely amused because the servant informed me that my big son had arrived .
I believe the first thing a woman does in Paris is to buy a new bonnet .
I did , or rather stood by and let ` my son ' do it in the best of French , only whispering when he proposed gorgeous chapeaus full of flowers and feathers , that I could not afford it .
` Ah !
we must make our economies , must we ?
See , then , this modest , pearl-colored one , with the crape rose .
Yes , we will have that , and be most elegant for the Sunday promenade . '
I fear I should have bought a pea-green hat with a yellow plume if he had urged it , so wheedlesome and droll were his ways and words .
His good taste saved me , however , and the modest one was sent home for the morrow , when we were to meet Joseph and Napoleon and go to the concert in the Tuileries garden .
Then we set off on our day of sight-seeing , and Laddie proved himself an excellent guide .
We had a charming trip about the enchanted city , a gay lunch at a caf , and a first brief glimpse of the Louvre .
At dinner-time I found a posy at my place ; and afterward Laddie came and spent the evening in my little salon , playing to me , and having what he called ` babblings and pleasantries . '
I found that he was translating ` Vanity Fair ' into Polish , and intended to sell it at home .
He convulsed me with his struggles to put cockney English and slang into good Polish , for he had saved up a list of words for me to explain to him .
Hay-stack and bean-pot were among them , I remember ; and when he had mastered the meanings he fell upon the sofa exhausted .
Other days like this followed , and we led a happy life together : for my twelve years ' seniority made our adventures quite proper , and I fearlessly went anywhere on the arm of my big son .
Not to theatres or balls , however , for heated rooms were bad for Laddie , but pleasant trips out of the city in the bright spring weather , quiet strolls in the gardens , moonlight concerts in the Champs Elyses ; or , best of all , long talks with music in the little red salon , with the gas turned low , and the ever-changing scenes of the Rue de Rivoli under the balcony .
Never were pleasures more cheaply purchased or more thoroughly enjoyed , for our hearts were as light as our purses , and our ` little economies ' gave zest to our amusements .
Joseph and Napoleon sometimes joined us , and I felt in my element with the three invalid soldier boys , for Napoleon still limped with a wound received in the war , Joseph had never recovered from his two years ' imprisonment in an Austrian dungeon , and Laddie 's loyalty might yet cost him his life .
Thanks to them , I discovered a joke played upon me by my ' polisson ' .
He told me to call him ` ma drogha , ' saying it meant ` my friend , ' in Polish .
I innocently did so , and he seemed to find great pleasure in it , for his eyes always laughed when I said it .
Using it one day before the other lads , I saw a queer twinkle in their eyes , and suspecting mischief , demanded the real meaning of the words .
Laddie tried to silence them , but the joke was too good to keep , and I found to my dismay that I had been calling him ` my darling ' in the tenderest manner .
How the three rascals shouted , and what a vain struggle it was to try and preserve my dignity when Laddie clasped his hands and begged pardon , explaining that jokes were necessary to his health , and he never meant me to know the full baseness of this ` pleasantrie ! '
I revenged myself by giving him some bad English for his translation , and telling him of it just as I left Paris .
It was not all fun with my boy , however ; he had his troubles , and in spite of his cheerfulness he knew what heartache was .
Walking in the quaint garden of the Luxembourg one day , he confided to me the little romance of his life .
A very touching little romance as he told it , with eloquent eyes and voice and frequent pauses for breath .
I can not give his words , but the simple facts were these : -- He had grown up with a pretty cousin , and at eighteen was desperately in love with her .
She returned his affection , but they could not be happy , for her father wished her to marry a richer man .
In Poland , to marry without the consent of parents is to incur lasting disgrace ; so Leonore obeyed , and the young pair parted .
This had been a heavy sorrow to Laddie , and he rushed into the war , hoping to end his trouble .
` Do you ever hear from your cousin ? '
I asked , as he walked beside me , looking sadly down the green aisles where kings and queens had loved and parted years ago . '
I only know that she suffers still , for she remembers .
Her husband submits to the Russians , and I despise him as I have no English to tell ; ' and he clenched his hands with the flash of the eye and sudden kindling of the whole face that made him handsome .
He showed me a faded little picture , and when I tried to comfort him , he laid his head down on the pedestal of one of the marble queens who guard the walk , as if he never cared to lift it up again .
But he was all right in a minute , and bravely put away his sorrow with the little picture .
He never spoke of it again , and I saw no more shadows on his face till we came to say good-bye .
` You have been so kind to me , I wish I had something beautiful to give you , Laddie , ' I said , feeling that it would be hard to get on without my boy .
` This time it is for always ; so , as a parting souvenir , give to me the sweet English good-bye . '
As he said this , with a despairing sort of look , as if he could not spare even so humble a friend as myself , my heart was quite rent within me , and , regardless of several prim English ladies , I drew down his tall head and kissed him tenderly , feeling that in this world there were no more meetings for us .
Then I ran away and buried myself in an empty railway carriage , hugging the little cologne bottle he had given me .
He promised to write , and for five years he has kept his word , sending me from Paris and Poland cheery , bright letters in English , at my desire , so that he might not forget .
Here is one as a specimen .
` MY DEAR AND GOOD FRIEND , -- What do you think of me that I do not write so long time ?
Excuse me , my good mamma , for I was so busy in these days I could not do this pleasant thing .
I write English without the fear that you laugh at it , because I know it is more agreeable to read the own language , and I think you are not excepted of this rule .
It is good of me , for the expressions of love and regard , made with faults , take the funny appearance ; they are ridicule , and instead to go to the heart , they make the laugh .
Never mind , I do it .
` You can not imagine yourself how stupide is Paris when you are gone .
I fly to my work , and make no more ftes , -- it is too sad alone .
I tie myself to my table and my Vanity -LRB- not of mine , for I am not vain , am I ? -RRB-
.
I wish some chapters to finish themselfs vite , that I send them to Pologne and know the end .
I have a little question to ask you -LRB- of Vanity as always -RRB- .
I can not translate this , no one of dictionnaires makes me the words , and I think it is jargon de prison , this little period .
Behold : -- Mopy , is that your snum ?
Nubble your dad and gully the dog , & c. ` So funny things I can not explain myself , so I send to you , and you reply sooner than without it , for you have so kind interest in my work you do not stay to wait .
So this is a little hook for you to make you write some words to your son who likes it so much and is fond of you .
` My doctor tells me my lungs are soon to be re-established ; so you may imagine yourself how glad I am , and of more courage in my future .
You may one day see your Varjo in Amerique , if I study commerce as I wish .
So then the last time of seeing ourselves is not the last .
Is that to please you ?
I suppose the grand histoire is finished , n'est ce pas ?
You will then send it to me care of M. Gryhomski Austriche , and he will give to me in clandestine way at Varsovie , otherwise it will be confiscated at the frontier by the stupide Russians .
` Now we are dispersed in two sides of world far apart , for soon I go home to Pologne and am no more '' juif errant . ''
It is now time I work at my life in some useful way , and I do it .
` As I am your grand fils , it is proper that I make you my compliment of happy Christmas and New Year , is it not ?
I wish for you so many as they may fulfil long human life .
May this year bring you more and more good hearts to love you -LRB- the only real happiness in the hard life -RRB- , and may I be as now , yours for always , ` VARJO . '
A year ago he sent me his photograph and a few lines .
I acknowledged the receipt of it , but since then not a word has come , and I begin to fear that my boy is dead .
Others have appeared to take his place , but they do n't suit , and I keep his corner always ready for him if he lives .
If he is dead , I am glad to have known so sweet and brave a character , for it does one good to see even as short-lived and obscure a hero as my Polish boy , whose dead December rose embalms for me the memory of Varjo , the last and dearest of my boys .
It is hardly necessary to add , for the satisfaction of inquisitive little women , that Laddie was the original of Laurie , as far as a pale pen-and-ink sketch could embody a living , loving boy .
TESSA 'S SURPRISES .
I. Little Tessa sat alone by the fire , waiting for her father to come home from work .
The children were fast asleep , all four in the big bed behind the curtain ; the wind blew hard outside , and the snow beat on the window-panes ; the room was large , and the fire so small and feeble that it did n't half warm the little bare toes peeping out of the old shoes on the hearth .
Tessa 's father was an Italian plaster-worker , very poor , but kind and honest .
The mother had died not long ago , and left twelve-year old Tessa to take care of the little children .
She tried to be very wise and motherly , and worked for them like any little woman ; but it was so hard to keep the small bodies warm and fed , and the small souls good and happy , that poor Tessa was often at her wits ' end .
She always waited for her father , no matter how tired she was , so that he might find his supper warm , a bit of fire , and a loving little face to welcome him .
Tessa thought over her troubles at these quiet times , and made her plans ; for her father left things to her a good deal , and she had no friends but Tommo , the harp-boy upstairs , and the lively cricket who lived in the chimney .
To-night her face was very sober , and her pretty brown eyes very thoughtful as she stared at the fire and knit her brows , as if perplexed .
She was not thinking of her old shoes , nor the empty closet , nor the boys ' ragged clothes just then .
No ; she had a fine plan in her good little head , and was trying to discover how she could carry it out .
You see , Christmas was coming in a week ; and she had set her heart on putting something in the children 's stockings , as the mother used to do , for while she lived things were comfortable .
Now Tessa had not a penny in the world , and did n't know how to get one , for all the father 's earnings had to go for food , fire , and rent .
` If there were only fairies , ah !
how heavenly that would be ; for then I should tell them all I wish , and , pop !
behold the fine things in my lap ! '
said Tessa to herself . '
I must earn the money ; there is no one to give it to me , and I can not beg .
But what can I do , so small and stupid and shy as I am ?
I must find some way to give the little ones a nice Christmas .
I must !
I must ! '
and Tessa pulled her long hair , as if that would help her think .
But it did n't , and her heart got heavier and heavier ; for it did seem hard that in a great city full of fine things , there should be none for poor Nono , Sep , and little Speranza .
Just as Tessa 's tears began to tumble off her eyelashes on to her brown cheeks , the cricket began to chirp .
Of course , he did n't say a word ; but it really did seem as if he had answered her question almost as well as a fairy ; for , before he had piped a dozen shrill notes , an idea popped into Tessa 's head -- such a truly splendid idea that she clapped her hands and burst out laughing .
` I 'll do it !
I 'll do it !
if father will let me , ' she said to herself , smiling and nodding at the fire .
` Tommo will like to have me go with him and sing , while he plays his harp in the streets .
I know many songs , and may get money if I am not frightened ; for people throw pennies to other little girls who only play the tambourine .
Yes , I will try ; and then , if I do well , the little ones shall have a Merry Christmas . '
So full of her plan was Tessa that she ran upstairs at once , and asked Tommo if he would take her with him on the morrow .
Her friend was delighted , for he thought Tessa 's songs very sweet , and was sure she would get money if she tried .
` But see , then , it is cold in the streets ; the wind bites , and the snow freezes one 's fingers .
The day is very long , people are cross , and at night one is ready to die with weariness .
Thou art so small , Tessa , I am afraid it will go badly with thee , ' said Tommo , who was a merry , black-eyed boy of fourteen , with the kindest heart in the world under his old jacket . '
I do not mind cold and wet , and cross people , if I can get the pennies , ' answered Tessa , feeling very brave with such a friend to help her .
She thanked Tommo , and ran away to get ready , for she felt sure her father would not refuse her anything .
She sewed up the holes in her shoes as well as she could , for she had much of that sort of cobbling to do ; she mended her only gown , and laid ready the old hood and shawl which had been her mother 's .
Then she washed out little Ranza 's frock and put it to dry , because she would not be able to do it the next day .
She set the table and got things ready for breakfast , for Tommo went out early , and must not be kept waiting for her .
She longed to make the beds and dress the children over night , she was in such a hurry to have all in order ; but , as that could not be , she sat down again , and tried over all the songs she knew .
Six pretty ones were chosen ; and she sang away with all her heart in a fresh little voice so sweetly that the children smiled in their sleep , and her father 's tired face brightened as he entered , for Tessa was his cheery cricket on the hearth .
When she had told her plan , Peter Benari shook his head , and thought it would never do ; but Tessa begged so hard , he consented at last that she should try it for one week , and sent her to bed the happiest little girl in New York .
Next morning the sun shone , but the cold wind blew , and the snow lay thick in the streets .
As soon as her father was gone , Tessa flew about and put everything in nice order , telling the children she was going out for the day , and they were to mind Tommo 's mother , who would see about the fire and the dinner ; for the good woman loved Tessa , and entered into her little plans with all her heart .
Nono and Giuseppe , or Sep , as they called him , wondered what she was going away for , and little Ranza cried at being left ; but Tessa told them they would know all about it in a week , and have a fine time if they were good ; so they kissed her all round and let her go .
Poor Tessa 's heart beat fast as she trudged away with Tommo , who slung his harp over his shoulder , and gave her his hand .
It was rather a dirty hand , but so kind that Tessa clung to it , and kept looking up at the friendly brown face for encouragement .
` We go first to the caf , where many French and Italians eat the breakfast .
They like my music , and often give me sips of hot coffee , which I like much .
You too shall have the sips , and perhaps the pennies , for these people are greatly kind , ' said Tommo , leading her into a large smoky place where many people sat at little tables , eating and drinking .
` See , now , have no fear ; give them `` Bella Monica ; '' that is merry and will make the laugh , ' whispered Tommo , tuning his harp .
For a moment Tessa felt so frightened that she wanted to run away ; but she remembered the empty stockings at home , and the fine plan , and she resolved not to give it up .
One fat old Frenchman nodded to her , and it seemed to help her very much ; for she began to sing before she thought , and that was the hardest part of it .
Her voice trembled , and her cheeks grew redder and redder as she went on ; but she kept her eyes fixed on her old shoes , and so got through without breaking down , which was very nice .
The people laughed , for the song was merry ; and the fat man smiled and nodded again .
This gave her courage to try another , and she sung better and better each time ; for Tommo played his best , and kept whispering to her , ` Yes ; we go well ; this is fine .
They will give the money and the blessed coffee . '
So they did ; for , when the little concert was over , several men put pennies in the cap Tessa offered , and the fat man took her on his knee , and ordered a mug of coffee , and some bread and butter for them both .
This quite won her heart ; and when they left the caf , she kissed her hand to the old Frenchman , and said to her friend , ` How kind they are !
I like this very much ; and now it is not hard . '
But Tommo shook his curly head , and answered , soberly , ` Yes , I took you there first , for they love music , and are of our country ; but up among the great houses we shall not always do well .
The people there are busy or hard or idle , and care nothing for harps and songs .
Do not skip and laugh too soon ; for the day is long , and we have but twelve pennies yet . '
Tessa walked more quietly , and rubbed her cold hands , feeling that the world was a very big place , and wondering how the children got on at home without the little mother .
Till noon they did not earn much , for every one seemed in a hurry , and the noise of many sleigh-bells drowned the music .
Slowly they made their way up to the great squares where the big houses were , with fine ladies and pretty children at the windows .
Here Tessa sung all her best songs , and Tommo played as fast as his fingers could fly ; but it was too cold to have the windows open , so the pretty children could not listen long , and the ladies tossed out a little money , and soon went back to their own affairs .
All the afternoon the two friends wandered about , singing and playing , and gathering up their small harvest .
At dusk they went home , Tessa so hoarse she could hardly speak , and so tired she fell asleep over her supper .
But she had made half a dollar , for Tommo divided the money fairly , and she felt rich with her share .
The other days were very much like this ; sometimes they made more , sometimes less , but Tommo always ` went halves ; ' and Tessa kept on , in spite of cold and weariness , for her plans grew as her earnings increased , and now she hoped to get useful things , instead of candy and toys alone .
On the day before Christmas she made herself as tidy as she could , for she hoped to earn a good deal .
She tied a bright scarlet handkerchief over the old hood , and the brilliant color set off her brown cheeks and bright eyes , as well as the pretty black braids of her hair .
Tommo 's mother lent her a pair of boots so big that they turned up at the toes , but there were no holes in them , and Tessa felt quite elegant in whole boots .
Her hands were covered with chilblains , for she had no mittens ; but she put them under her shawl , and scuffled merrily away in her big boots , feeling so glad that the week was over , and nearly three dollars safe in her pocket .
How gay the streets were that day !
how brisk every one was , and how bright the faces looked , as people trotted about with big baskets , holly-wreaths , and young evergreens going to blossom into splendid Christmas trees !
` If I could have a tree for the children , I 'd never want anything again .
But I ca n't ; so I 'll fill the socks all full , and be happy , ' said Tessa , as she looked wistfully into the gay stores , and saw the heavy baskets go by .
` Who knows what may happen if we do well ? '
returned Tommo , nodding wisely , for he had a plan as well as Tessa , and kept chuckling over it as he trudged through the mud .
They did not do well somehow , for every one seemed so full of their own affairs they could not stop to listen , even to ` Bella Monica , ' but bustled away to spend their money in turkeys , toys , and trees .
In the afternoon it began to rain , and poor Tessa 's heart to fail her ; for the big boots tired her feet , the cold wind made her hands ache , and the rain spoilt the fine red handkerchief .
Even Tommo looked sober , and did n't whistle as he walked , for he also was disappointed , and his plan looked rather doubtful , the pennies came in so slowly .
` We 'll try one more street , and then go home , thou art so tired , little one .
Come ; let me wipe thy face , and give me thy hand here in my jacket pocket ; there it will be as warm as any kitten ; ' and kind Tommo brushed away the drops which were not all rain from Tessa 's cheeks , tucked the poor hand into his ragged pocket , and led her carefully along the slippery streets , for the boots nearly tripped her up .
II .
At the first house , a cross old gentleman flapped his newspaper at them ; at the second , a young gentleman and lady were so busy talking that they never turned their heads , and at the third , a servant came out and told them to go away , because some one was sick .
At the fourth , some people let them sing all their songs and gave nothing .
The next three houses were empty ; and the last of all showed not a single face as they looked up anxiously .
It was so cold , so dark and discouraging , that Tessa could n't help one sob ; and , as he glanced down at the little red nose and wet figure beside him , Tommo gave his harp an angry thump , and said something very fierce in Italian .
They were just going to turn away ; but they did n't , for that angry thump happened to be the best thing they could have done .
All of a sudden a little head appeared at the window , as if the sound had brought it ; then another and another , till there were five , of all heights and colors , and five eager faces peeped out , smiling and nodding to the two below .
` Sing , Tessa ; sing !
Quick !
quick ! '
cried Tommo , twanging away with all his might , and showing his white teeth , as he smiled back at the little gentle-folk .
Bless us !
How Tessa did tune up at that !
She chirped away like a real bird , forgetting all about the tears on her cheeks , the ache in her hands , and the heaviness at her heart .
The children laughed , and clapped their hands , and cried ` More !
more !
Sing another , little girl !
Please do ! '
And away they went again , piping and playing , till Tessa 's breath was gone , and Tommo 's stout fingers tingled well .
` Mamma says , come to the door ; it 's too muddy to throw the money into the street ! '
cried out a kindly child 's voice as Tessa held up the old cap , with beseeching eyes .
Up the wide stone steps went the street musicians , and the whole flock came running down to give a handful of silver , and ask all sorts of questions .
Tessa felt so grateful that , without waiting for Tommo , she sang her sweetest little song all alone .
It was about a lost lamb , and her heart was in the song ; therefore she sang it well , so well that a pretty young lady came down to listen , and stood watching the bright-eyed girl , who looked about her as she sang , evidently enjoying the light and warmth of the fine hall , and the sight of the lovely children with their gay dresses , shining hair , and dainty little shoes .
` You have a charming voice , child .
Who taught you to sing ? '
asked the young lady kindly .
` My mother .
She is dead now ; but I do not forget , ' answered Tessa , in her pretty broken English . '
I wish she could sing at our tree , since Bella is ill , ' cried one of the children peeping through the banisters .
` She is not fair enough for the angel , and too large to go up in the tree .
But she sings sweetly , and looks as if she would like to see a tree , ' said the young lady .
` Oh , so much ! '
exclaimed Tessa ; adding eagerly , ` my sister Ranza is small and pretty as a baby-angel .
She could sit up in the fine tree , and I could sing for her from under the table . '
` Sit down and warm yourself , and tell me about Ranza , ' said the kind elder sister , who liked the confiding little girl , in spite of her shabby clothes .
So Tessa sat down and dried the big boots over the furnace , and told her story , while Tommo stood modestly in the background , and the children listened with faces full of interest . '
O Rose !
let us see the little girl ; and if she will do , let us have her , and Tessa can learn our song , and it will be splendid ! '
cried the biggest boy , who sat astride of a chair , and stared at the harp with round eyes .
` I 'll ask mamma , ' said Rose ; and away she went into the dining-room close by .
As the door opened , Tessa saw what looked to her like a fairy feast , -- all silver mugs and flowery plates and oranges and nuts and rosy wine in tall glass pitchers , and smoking dishes that smelt so deliciously she could not restrain a little sniff of satisfaction .
` Are you hungry ? '
asked the boy , in a grand tone .
` Yes , sir , ' meekly answered Tessa . '
I say , mamma ; she wants something to eat .
Can I give her an orange ? '
called the boy , prancing away into the splendid room , quite like a fairy prince , Tessa thought .
A plump motherly lady came out and looked at Tessa , asked a few questions , and then told her to come to-morrow with Ranza , and they would see what could be done .
Tessa clapped her hands for joy , -- she did n't mind the chilblains now , -- and Tommo played a lively march , he was so pleased .
` Will you come , too , and bring your harp ?
You shall be paid , and shall have something from the tree , likewise , ' said the motherly lady , who liked what Tessa gratefully told about his kindness to her .
` Ah , yes ; I shall come with much gladness , and play as never in my life before , ' cried Tommo , with a flourish of the old cap that made the children laugh .
` Give these to your brothers , ' said the fairy prince , stuffing nuts and oranges into Tessa 's hands .
` And these to the little girl , ' added one of the young princesses , flying out of the dining-room with cakes and rosy apples for Ranza .
Tessa did n't know what to say ; but her eyes were full , and she just took the mother 's white hand in both her little grimy ones , and kissed it many times in her pretty Italian fashion .
The lady understood her , and stroked her cheek softly , saying to her elder daughter , ` We must take care of this good little creature .
Freddy , bring me your mittens ; these poor hands must be covered .
Alice , get your play-hood ; this handkerchief is all wet ; and , Maud , bring the old chinchilla tippet . '
The children ran , and in a minute there were lovely blue mittens on the red hands , a warm hood over the black braids , and a soft ` pussy ' round the sore throat .
` Ah !
so kind , so very kind !
I have no way to say `` thank you ; '' but Ranza shall be for you a heavenly angel , and I will sing my heart out for your tree ! '
cried Tessa , folding the mittens as if she would say a prayer of thankfulness if she knew how .
Then they went away , and the pretty children called after them , ` Come again , Tessa !
come again , Tommo ! '
Now the rain did n't seem dismal , the wind cold , nor the way long , as they bought their gifts and hurried home , for kind words and the sweet magic of charity had changed all the world to them .
I think the good spirits who fly about on Christmas Eve , to help the loving fillers of little stockings , smiled very kindly on Tessa as she brooded joyfully over the small store of presents that seemed so magnificent to her .
All the goodies were divided evenly into three parts and stowed away in father 's three big socks , which hung against the curtain .
With her three dollars , she had got a pair of shoes for Nono , a knit cap for Sep , and a pair of white stockings for Ranza ; to her she also gave the new hood ; to Nono the mittens ; and to Sep the tippet .
` Now the dear boys can go out , and my Ranza will be ready for the lady to see , in her nice new things , ' said Tessa , quite sighing with pleasure to see how well the gifts looked pinned up beside the bulging socks , which would n't hold them all .
The little mother kept nothing for herself but the pleasure of giving everything away ; yet , I think , she was both richer and happier than if she had kept them all .
Her father laughed as he had not done since the mother died , when he saw how comically the old curtain had broken out into boots and hoods , stockings and tippets . '
I wish I had a gold gown and a silver hat for thee , my Tessa , thou art so good .
May the saints bless and keep thee always ! '
said Peter Benari tenderly , as he held his little daughter close , and gave her the good-night kiss .
Tessa felt very rich as she crept under the faded counterpane , feeling as if she had received a lovely gift , and fell happily asleep with chubby Ranza in her arms , and the two rough black heads peeping out at the foot of the bed .
She dreamed wonderful dreams that night , and woke in the morning to find real wonders before her eyes .
She got up early , to see if the socks were all right , and there she found the most astonishing sight .
Four socks , instead of three ; and by the fourth , pinned out quite elegantly was a little dress , evidently meant for her -- a warm , woollen dress , all made , and actually with bright buttons on it .
It nearly took her breath away ; so did the new boots on the floor , and the funny long stocking like a grey sausage , with a wooden doll staring out at the top , as if she said , politely , ' A Merry Christmas , ma'am ! '
Tessa screamed and danced in her delight , and up tumbled all the children to scream and dance with her , making a regular carnival on a small scale .
Everybody hugged and kissed everybody else , offered sucks of orange , bites of cake , and exchanges of candy ; every one tried on the new things , and pranced about in them like a flock of peacocks .
Ranza skipped to and fro airily , dressed in her white socks and the red hood ; the boys promenaded in their little shirts , one with his creaking new shoes and mittens , the other in his gay cap and fine tippet ; and Tessa put her dress straight on , feeling that her father 's ` gold gown ' was not all a joke .
In her long stocking she found all sorts of treasures ; for Tommo had stuffed it full of queer things , and his mother had made gingerbread into every imaginable shape , from fat pigs to full omnibuses .
Dear me !
What happy little souls they were that morning ; and when they were quiet again , how like a fairy tale did Tessa 's story sound to them .
Ranza was quite ready to be an angel ; and the boys promised to be marvellously good , if they were only allowed to see the tree at the ` palace , ' as they called the great house .
Little Ranza was accepted with delight by the kind lady and her children , and Tessa learned the song quite easily .
The boys were asked ; and , after a happy day , the young Italians all returned , to play their parts at the fine Christmas party .
Mamma and Miss Rose drilled them all ; and when the folding-doors flew open , one rapturous ` Oh ! '
arose from the crowd of children gathered to the festival .
I assure you , it was splendid ; the great tree glittering with lights and gifts ; and , on her invisible perch , up among the green boughs , sat the little golden-haired angel , all in white , with downy wings , a shining crown on her head , and the most serene satisfaction in her blue eyes , as she stretched her chubby arms to those below , and smiled her baby smile at them .
Before any one could speak , a voice , as fresh and sweet as a lark 's , sang the Christmas Carol so blithely that every one stood still to hear , and then clapped till the little angel shook on her perch , and cried out , ` Be 'till , or me 'll fall ! '
How they laughed at that ; and what fun they had talking to Ranza , while Miss Rose stripped the tree , for the angel could not resist temptation , and amused herself by eating all the bonbons she could reach , till she was taken down , to dance about like a fairy in a white frock and red shoes .
Tessa and her friends had many presents ; the boys were perfect lambs , Tommo played for the little folks to dance , and every one said something friendly to the strangers , so that they did not feel shy , in spite of shabby clothes .
It was a happy night : and all their lives they remembered it as something too beautiful and bright to be quite true .
Before they went home , the kind mamma told Tessa she should be her friend , and gave her a motherly kiss , which warmed the child 's heart and seemed to set a seal upon that promise .
It was faithfully kept , for the rich lady had been touched by Tessa 's patient struggles and sacrifices ; and for many years , thanks to her benevolence , there was no end to Tessa 's Surprises .
BUZZ .
I live high up in a city house all alone .
My room is a cosy little place , though there is nothing very splendid in it , -- only my pictures and books , my flowers and my little friend .
When I began to live there , I was very busy and therefore very happy ; but by-and-by , when my hurry was over and I had more time to myself , I often felt lonely .
When I ate my meals I used to wish for a pleasant companion to eat with me ; and when I sat by the fire of evenings , I thought how much more social it would be if some one sat opposite .
I had many friends and callers through the day , but the evenings were often rather dull ; for I could n't read much , and did n't care to go out in the stormy weather .
I was wishing for a cheerful friend one night , when all of a sudden I found one ; for , sitting on my hand , I saw a plump , jolly-looking fly .
He sat quietly staring at me , with a mild little hum , as if to say , -- ` How are you ?
You wanted a friend , and here I am .
Will you have me ? '
Of course I would , for I liked him directly , he was so cheery and confiding , and seemed as glad to see me as I was to see him .
All his mates were dead and gone , and he was alone , like myself .
So I waggled one finger , by way of welcome , fearing to shake my hand , lest he should tumble off and feel hurt at my reception .
He seemed to understand me , and buzzed again , evidently saying , -- ` Thank you , ma'am .
I should like to stay in your warm room , and amuse you for my board .
I wo n't disturb you , but do my best to be a good little friend . '
So the bargain was struck , and he stopped to tea .
I found that his manners had been neglected ; for he was inclined to walk over the butter , drink out of the cream-pot , and put his fingers in the jelly .
A few taps with my spoon taught him to behave with more propriety , and he sipped a drop of milk from the waiter with a crumb of sugar , as a well-bred fly should do .
On account of his fine voice , I named him Buzz , and we soon got on excellently together .
He seemed to like his new quarters , and , after exploring every corner of the room , he chose his favourite haunts and began to enjoy himself .
I always knew where he was , for he kept up a constant song , humming and buzzing , like a little kettle getting ready to boil .
On sunny days , he amused himself by bumping his head against the window , and watching what went on outside .
It would have given me a headache , but he seemed to enjoy it immensely .
Up in my hanging basket of ivy he made his bower , and sat there on the moss basking in the sunshine , as luxuriously as any gentleman in his conservatory .
He was interested in the plants , and examined them daily with great care , walking over the ivy leaves , grubbing under the moss , and poking his head into the unfolding hyacinth buds to see how they got on .
The pictures , also , seemed to attract his attention , for he spent much time skating over the glasses and studying the designs .
Sometimes I would find him staring at my Madonna , as if he said , ` What in the world are all those topsy-turvy children about ? '
Then he 'd sit in the middle of a brook , in a water-color sketch by Vautin , as if bathing his feet , or seem to be eating the cherry which one little duck politely offers another little duck , in Oscar Pletch 's Summer Party .
He frequently kissed my mother 's portrait , and sat on my father 's bald head , as if trying to get out some of the wisdom stored up there , like honey in an ill-thatched bee-hive .
My bronze Mercury rather puzzled him , for he could not understand why the young gentleman did n't fly off when he had four wings and seemed in such a hurry .
I 'm afraid he was a trifle vain , for he sat before the glass a great deal , and I often saw him cleaning his proboscis , and twiddling his feelers , and I know he was ` prinking , ' as we say .
The books pleased him , too , and he used to run them over , as if trying to choose which he would read , and never seemed able to decide .
He would have nothing to say to the fat French Dictionary , or my English Plays , but liked Goethe and Schiller , Emerson and Browning , as well as I did .
Carlyle did n't suit him , and Richter evidently made his head ache .
But Jean Ingelow 's Poems delighted him , and so did her ` Stories told to a Child . '
` Fairy Bells ' he often listened to , and was very fond of the pictures in a photograph book of foreign places and great people .
He frequently promenaded on the piazza of a little Swiss chalet , standing on the mantel-piece , and thought it a charming residence for a single gentleman like himself .
The closet delighted him extremely , and he buzzed in the most joyful manner when he got among the provisions , -- for we kept house together .
Such revels as he had in the sugar-bowl ; such feasts of gingerbread and grapes ; such long sips of milk , and sly peeps into every uncovered box and dish !
Once I 'm afraid he took too much cider , for I found him lying on his back , kicking and humming like a crazy top , and he was very queer all the rest of that day ; so I kept the bottle corked after that .
But his favorite nook was among the ferns in the vase which a Parian dancing-girl carried .
She stood just over the stove on one little toe , rattling some castanets , which made no sound , and never getting a step farther for all her prancing .
This was a warm and pretty retreat for Buzz , and there he spent much of his time , swinging on the ferns , sleeping snugly in the vase , or warming his feet in the hot air that blew up , like a south wind , from the stove .
I do n't believe there was a happier fly in Boston than my friend Buzz , and I grew fonder and fonder of him every day ; for he never got into mischief , but sung his cheery song , no matter what the weather was , and made himself agreeable .
Then he was so interested in all I did , it was delightful to have him round .
When I wrote he came and walked about over my paper to see that it was right , peeped into my ink-stand , and ran after my pen .
He never made silly or sharp criticisms on my stories , but appeared to admire them very much ; so I am sure he was a good judge .
When I sewed , he sat in my basket , or played hide-and-seek in the folds of my work , talking away all the while in the most sociable manner .
He often flew up all of a sudden , and danced about in the air , as if he was in such a jolly mood he could n't keep still , and wanted me to come and play with him .
But , alas !
I had no wings , and could only sit stupidly still , and laugh at his pranks .
That was his exercise , for he never went out , and only took a sniff of air now and then when I opened the windows .
Well , little Buzz and I lived together many weeks , and never got tired of one another , which is saying a good deal .
At Christmas I went home for a week and left my room to take care of itself .
I put the hyacinths into the closet to be warm , and dropped the curtain , so the frost should not nip my ivy ; but I forgot Buzz .
I really would have taken him with me , or carried him down to a neighbour 's room to be taken care of while I was away , but I never thought of him in the hurry of getting my presents and myself ready .
Off I went without even saying ` good-bye , ' and never thought of my little friend till Freddy , my small nephew , said to me one evening at dusk , -- ` Aunt Jo , tell me a story . '
So I began to tell him about Buzz , and all of a sudden I cried out , -- ` Mercy on me !
I 'm afraid he 'll die of cold while I 'm gone . '
It troubled me a good deal , and I wanted to know how the poor little fellow was so much that I would have gone to see if I had not been so far away .
But it would be rather silly to hurry away twenty miles to look after one fly : so I finished my visit , and then went back to my room , hoping to find Buzz alive and well in spite of the cold .
Alas , no !
my little friend was gone .
There he lay on his back on the mantel-piece , his legs meekly folded , and his wings stiff and still .
He had evidently gone to the warm place , and been surprised when the heat died out and left him to freeze .
My poor little Buzz had sung his last song , danced his last dance , and gone where the good flies go .
I was very sorry and buried him among the ivy roots , where the moss lay green above him , the sun shone warmly on him , and the bitter cold could never come .
I miss him very much ; when I sit writing , I miss his cheerful voice and busy wings ; at meals there is no tiny little body to drink up spilt drops and eat the crumbs : in the evenings , when I sit alone , I want him more than ever , and every day , as I water my plants , I say , softly , -- ` Grow green , ivy , lie lightly , moss , shine warmly , sun , and make his last bed pleasant to my little friend . '
THE CHILDREN 'S JOKE .
' `` You ca n't do this '' and `` you must n't do that , '' from morning to night .
Try it yourself and see how you 'd like it , ' muttered Harry , as he flung down his hat in sulky obedience to his father 's command to give up a swim in the river and keep himself cool with a book that warm summer evening .
` Of course I should like to mind my parents .
Good children always do , ' began Mr. Fairbairn , entirely forgetting the pranks of his boyhood , as people are apt to .
` Glad I did n't know you then .
Must have been a regular prig , ' growled Harry under his breath .
` Silence , sir !
go to your room , and do n't let me see you till tea-time .
You must be taught respect as well as obedience , ' and Mr. Fairbairn gave the table a rap that caused his son to retire precipitately .
On the stairs he met his sister Kitty looking as cross as himself .
` What 's the matter with you ? '
he asked , pausing a minute , for misery loves company .
` Mamma will make me dress up in a stiff clean frock , and have my hair curled over again just because some one may come .
I want to play in the garden , and I ca n't all fussed up this way .
I do hate company and clothes and manners , do n't you ? '
answered Kitty , with a spiteful pull at her sash . '
I hate being ordered round everlastingly , and badgered from morning till night .
I 'd just like to be let alone , ' and Harry went on his way to captivity with a grim shake of the head and a very strong desire to run away from home altogether .
` So would I , mamma is so fussy .
I never have any peace of my life , ' sighed Kitty , feeling that her lot was a hard one .
The martyr in brown linen went up , and the other martyr in white cambric went down , both looking as they felt , rebellious and unhappy .
Yet a stranger seeing them and their home would have thought they had everything heart could desire .
All the comforts that money could buy , and all the beauty that taste could give seemed gathered round them .
Papa and mamma loved the two little people dearly , and no real care or sorrow came to trouble the lives that would have been all sunshine but for one thing .
With the best intentions in the world , Mr. and Mrs. Fairbairn were spoiling their children by constant fault-finding , too many rules and too little sympathy with the active young souls and bodies under their care .
As Harry said , they were ordered about , corrected and fussed over from morning till night , and were getting so tired of it that the most desperate ideas began to enter their heads .
Now , in the house was a quiet old maiden aunt , who saw the mischief brewing , and tried to cure it by suggesting more liberty and less ` nagging , ' as the boys call it .
But Mr. and Mrs. F. always silenced her by saying , -- ` My dear Betsey , you never had a family , so how can you know anything about the proper management of children ? '
They quite forgot that sister Betsey had brought up a flock of motherless brothers and sisters , and done it wisely and well , though she never got any thanks or praise for it , and never expected any for doing her duty faithfully .
If it had not been for aunty , Harry and Kitty would have long ago carried out their favorite plan , and have run away together , like Roland and Maybird .
She kept them from this foolish prank by all sorts of unsuspected means , and was their refuge in troublous times .
For all her quiet ways , aunty was full of fun as well as sympathy and patience , and she smoothed the thorny road to virtue with the innocent and kindly little arts that make some people as useful and beloved as good fairy godmothers were once upon a time .
As they sat at tea that evening papa and mamma were most affable and lively ; but the children 's spirits were depressed by a long day of restraint , and they sat like well-bred mutes , languidly eating their supper .
` It 's the warm weather .
They need something bracing .
I 'll give them a dose of iron mixture to-morrow , ' said mamma .
` I 've taken enough now to make a cooking-stove , ' groaned Kitty , who hated being dosed .
` If you 'd let me go swimming every night I 'd be all right , ' added Harry .
` Not another word on that point .
I will not let you do it , for you will get drowned as sure as you try , ' said mamma , who was so timid she had panics the minute her boy was out of sight .
` Aunt Betsey let her boys go , and they never came to grief , ' began Harry .
` Aunt Betsey 's ideas and mine differ .
Children are not brought up now as they were in her day , ' answered mamma with a superior air . '
I just wish they were .
Jolly good times her boys had . '
` Yes , and girls too , playing anything they liked , and not rigged up and plagued with company , ' cried Kitty , with sudden interest .
` What do you mean by that ? '
asked papa good-naturedly ; for somehow his youth returned to him for a minute , and seemed very pleasant .
The children could not explain very well , but Harry said slowly , -- ` If you were to be in our places for a day you 'd see what we mean . '
` Would n't it be worth your while to try the experiment ? '
said Aunt Betsey , with a smile .
Papa and mamma laughed at the idea , but looked sober when aunty added , -- ` Why not put yourselves in their places for a day and see how you like it ?
I think you would understand the case better than any one could describe it , and perhaps do both yourselves and the children a lasting service . '
` Upon my word , that 's a droll idea !
What do you say to it , mamma ? '
and papa looked much amused . '
I am willing to try it if you are , just for the fun of the thing , but I do n't think it will do any good ; ' and mamma shook her head as if Aunt Betsey 's plan was a wild one .
The children sat quiet , speechless with surprise at this singular proposal , but as its full richness dawned upon them , they skipped in their chairs and clapped their hands delightedly .
` How do you propose to carry out this new educational frolic ? '
asked papa , beginning to feel some curiosity as to the part he was to play .
` Merely let the children do as they like for one day and have full power over you .
Let them plan your duties and pleasures , order your food , fix your hours , and punish or reward you as they think proper .
You must promise entire obedience , and keep the agreement till night . '
` Good !
good !
Oh , wo n't it be fun ! '
cried Harry and Kitty , applauding enthusiastically ; while papa and mamma looked rather sober as the plan was developed before them .
` To-morrow is a holiday for us all , and we might celebrate it by this funny experiment .
It will amuse us and do no harm , at any rate , ' added aunty , quite in love with her new scheme .
` Very well , we will .
Come , mamma , let us promise , and see what these rogues will do for us .
Playing father and mother is no joke , mind you ; but you will have an easier time of it than we do , for we shall behave ourselves , ' said papa , with a virtuous expression .
Mamma agreed , and the supper ended merrily , for every one was full of curiosity as to the success of the new play .
Harry and Kitty went to bed early , that they might be ready for the exciting labors of the next day .
Aunt Betsey paid each a short visit before they slept , and it is supposed that she laid out the order of performances , and told each what to do ; for the little people would never have thought of so many sly things if left to themselves .
At seven the next morning , as mamma was in her dressing-room , just putting on her cool , easy wrapper , in came Kitty with a solemn face , though her eyes danced with fun , as she said , -- ` Careless , untidy girl !
Put on a clean dress , do up your hair properly , and go and practise half an hour before breakfast . '
At first mamma looked as if inclined to refuse , but Kitty was firm ; and , with a sigh , mamma rustled into a stiff , scratchy , French print , took her hair out of the comfortable net , and braided it carefully up ; then , instead of reading in her arm-chair , she was led to the parlor and set to learning a hard piece of music .
` Ca n't I have my early cup of tea and my roll ? '
she asked .
` Eating between meals is a very bad habit , and I ca n't allow it , ' said Kitty , in the tone her mother often used to her . '
I shall have a mug of new milk and a roll , because grown people need more nourishment than children ; ' and sitting down , she ate her early lunch with a relish , while poor mamma played away , feeling quite out of tune herself .
Harry found papa enjoying the last delightful doze that makes bed so fascinating of a morning .
As if half afraid to try the experiment , the boy slowly approached and gave the sleeper a sudden , hard shake , saying briskly , -- ` Come , come , come , lazy-bones !
Get up , get up ! '
Papa started as if an earthquake had roused him , and stared at Harry , astonished for a minute , then he remembered , and upset Harry 's gravity by whining out , -- ` Come , you let me alone .
It is n't time yet , and I am so tired . '
Harry took the joke , and assuming the stern air of his father on such occasions , said impressively , -- ` You have been called , and now if you are not down in fifteen minutes you wo n't have any breakfast .
Not a morsel , sir , not a morsel ; ' and , coolly pocketing his father 's watch , he retired , to giggle all the way downstairs .
When the breakfast bell rang , mamma hurried into the dining-room , longing for her tea .
But Kitty sat behind the urn , and said gravely , -- ` Go back , and enter the room properly .
Will you never learn to behave like a lady ? '
Mamma looked impatient at the delay , and having re-entered in her most elegant manner , sat down , and passed her plate for fresh trout and muffins .
` No fish or hot bread for you , my dear .
Eat your good oatmeal porridge and milk ; that is the proper food for children . '
` Ca n't I have some tea ? '
cried mamma , in despair , for without it she felt quite lost .
` Certainly not .
I never was allowed tea when a little girl , and could n't think of giving it to you , ' said Kitty , filling a large cup for herself , and sipping the forbidden draught with a relish .
Poor mamma quite groaned at this hard fate , but meekly obeyed , and ate the detested porridge , understanding Kitty 's dislike to it at last .
Harry , sitting in his father 's chair , read the paper , and ate everything he could lay his hands on , with a funny assumption of his father 's morning manner .
Aunt Betsey looked on much amused , and now and then nodded to the children as if she thought things were going nicely .
Breakfast was half over when papa came in , and was about to take Harry 's place when his son said , trying vainly to look grave as he showed the watch , -- ` What did I tell you , sir ?
You are late again , sir .
No breakfast , sir .
I 'm sorry , but this habit must be broken up .
Not a word ; it 's your own fault , and you must bear the penalty . '
` Come , now , that 's hard on a fellow !
I 'm awful hungry .
Ca n't I have just a bite of something ? '
asked papa , quite taken aback at this stern decree . '
I said not a morsel , and I shall keep my word .
Go to your morning duties and let this be a lesson to you . '
Papa cast a look at Aunt Betsey , that was both comic and pathetic , and departed without a word ; but he felt a sudden sympathy with his son , who had often been sent fasting from the table for some small offence .
Now it was that he appreciated aunty 's kind heart , and felt quite fond of her , for in a few minutes she came to him , as he raked the gravel walk -LRB- Harry 's duty every day -RRB- , and slipping a nice , warm , well-buttered muffin into his hand , said , in her motherly way , -- ` My dear , do try and please your father .
He is right about late rising , but I ca n't bear to see you starve . '
` Betsey , you are an angel ! '
and turning his back to the house , papa bolted the muffin with grateful rapidity , inquiring with a laugh , ` Do you think those rogues will keep it up in this vigorous style all day ? ' '
I trust so ; it is n't a bit overdone .
Hope you like it ! '
and Aunt Betsey walked away , looking as if she enjoyed it extremely .
` Now put on your hat and draw baby up and down the avenue for half an hour .
Do n't go on the grass , or you will wet your feet ; and do n't play with baby , I want her to go to sleep ; and do n't talk to papa , or he will neglect his work , ' said Kitty , as they rose from table .
Now , it was a warm morning and baby was heavy and the avenue was dull , and mamma much preferred to stay in the house and sew the trimming on to a new and pretty dress .
` Must I really ?
Kitty you are a hard-hearted mamma to make me do it , ' and Mrs. Fairbairn hoped her play-parent would relent .
But she did not , and only answered with a meaning look . '
I have to do it every day , and you do n't let me off . '
Mamma said no more , but put on her hat and trundled away with fretful baby , thinking to find her fellow-sufferer and have a laugh over the joke .
She was disappointed , however , for Harry called papa away to weed the lettuce-bed , and then shut him up in the study to get his lessons , while he mounted the pony and trotted away to town to buy a new fishing-rod and otherwise enjoy himself .
When mamma came in , hot and tired , she was met by Kitty with a bottle in one hand and a spoon in the other .
` Here is your iron mixture , dear .
Now take it like a good girl . ' '
I wo n't ! '
and mamma looked quite stubborn .
` Then aunty will hold your hands and I shall make you . '
` But I do n't like it ; I do n't need it , ' cried mamma .
` Neither do I , but you give it to me all the same .
I 'm sure you need strengthening more than I do , you have so many `` trials , '' ' and Kitty looked very sly as she quoted one of the words often on her mother 's lips .
` You 'd better mind , Carrie ; it ca n't hurt you , and you know you promised entire obedience .
Set a good example , ' said aunty .
` But I never thought these little chits would do so well .
Ugh , how disagreeable it is ! '
And mamma took her dose with a wry face , feeling that Aunt Betsey was siding with the wrong party .
` Now sit down and hem these towels till dinner-time .
I have so much to do I do n't know which way to turn , ' continued Kitty , much elated with her success .
Rest of any sort was welcome , so mamma sewed busily till callers came .
They happened to be some little friends of Kitty 's , and she went to them in the parlor , telling mamma to go up to nurse and have her hair brushed and her dress changed , and then come and see the guests .
While she was away Kitty told the girls the joke they were having , and begged them to help her carry it out .
They agreed , being ready for fun and not at all afraid of Mrs. Fairbairn .
So when she came in they all began to kiss and cuddle and praise and pass her round as if she was a doll , to her great discomfort and the great amusement of the little girls .
While this was going on in the drawing-room , Harry was tutoring his father in the study , and putting that poor gentleman through a course of questions that nearly drove him distracted ; for Harry got out the hardest books he could find , and selected the most puzzling subjects .
A dusty old history was rummaged out also , and classical researches followed , in which papa 's memory played him false more than once , calling forth rebukes from his severe young tutor .
But he came to open disgrace over his mathematics , for he had no head for figures , and , not being a business man , had not troubled himself about the matter ; so Harry , who was in fine practice , utterly routed him in mental arithmetic by giving him regular puzzlers , and when he got stuck offered no help , but shook his head and called him a stupid fellow .
The dinner-bell released the exhausted student , and he gladly took his son 's place , looking as if he had been hard at work .
He was faint with hunger , but was helped last , being ` only a boy , ' and then checked every five minutes for eating too fast .
Mamma was very meek , and only looked wistfully at the pie when told in her own words that pastry was bad for children .
Any attempts at conversation were promptly quenched by the worn-out old saying , ` Children should be seen , not heard , ' while Harry and Kitty chattered all dinner-time , and enjoyed it to their hearts ' content , especially the frequent pecks at their great children , who , to be even with them , imitated all their tricks as well as they could .
` Do n't whistle at table , papa ; ' ` keep your hands still mamma ; ' ` wait till you are helped , sir ; ' ` tuck your napkin well in , and do n't spill your soup , Caroline . '
Aunt Betsey laughed till her eyes were full , and they had a jolly time , though the little people had the best of it , for the others obeyed them in spite of their dislike to the new rules .
` Now you may play for two hours , ' was the gracious order issued as they rose from table .
Mamma fell upon a sofa exhausted , and papa hurried to read his paper in the shady garden .
Usually these hours of apparent freedom were spoilt by constant calls , -- not to run , not to play this or that , or frequent calls to do errands .
The children had mercy , however , and left them in peace ; which was a wise move on the whole , for the poor souls found rest so agreeable they privately resolved to let the children alone in their play-hours .
` Can I go over and see Mr. Hammond ? '
asked papa , wishing to use up the last half-hour of his time by a neighbourly call .
` No ; I do n't like Tommy Hammond , so I do n't wish you to play with his father , ' said Harry , with a sly twinkle of the eye , as he turned the tables on his papa .
Mr. Fairbairn gave a low whistle and retired to the barn , where Harry followed him , and ordered the man to harness up old Bill .
` Going to drive , sir ? '
asked papa , respectfully .
` Do n't ask questions , ' was all the answer he got .
Old Bill was put into the best buggy and driven to the hall door .
Papa followed , and mamma sprang up from her nap , ready for her afternoon drive .
` Ca n't I go ? '
she asked , as Kitty came down in her new hat and gloves .
` No ; there is n't room . '
` Why not have the carryall , and let us go , too , we like it so much , ' said papa , in the pleading tone Harry often used .
Kitty was about to consent , for she loved mamma , and found it hard to cross her so .
But Harry was made of sterner stuff ; his wrongs still burned within him , and he said impatiently -- ` We ca n't be troubled with you .
The buggy is nicest and lightest , and we want to talk over our affairs .
You , my son , can help John turn the hay on the lawn , and Caroline can amuse baby , or help Jane with the preserves .
Little girls should be domestic . '
` Oh , thunder ! '
growled papa .
` Aunt Betsey taught you that speech , you saucy boy , ' cried mamma , as the children drove off in high glee , leaving their parents to the distasteful tasks set them .
Mrs. Fairbairn wanted to read , but baby was fretful , and there was no Kitty to turn him over to , so she spent her afternoon amusing the small tyrant , while papa made hay in the sun and did n't like it .
Just at tea-time the children came home , full of the charms of their drive , but did not take the trouble to tell much about it to the stay-at-home people .
Bread and milk was all they allowed their victims , while they revelled in marmalade and cake , fruit and tea . '
I expect company this evening , but I do n't wish you to sit up , Caroline ; you are too young , and late hours are bad for your eyes .
Go to bed , and do n't forget to brush your hair and teeth well , five minutes for each ; cold cream your hands , fold your ribbons , hang up your clothes , put out your boots to be cleaned , and put in the mosquito bars ; I will come and take away the light when I am dressed . '
Kitty delivered this dread command with effect , for she had heard and cried over it too often not to have it quite by heart .
` But I ca n't go to bed at half-past seven o'clock of a summer night !
I 'm not sleepy , and this is just the pleasantest time of the whole day , ' said mamma , thinking her bargain a hard one .
` Go up directly , my daughter , and do n't discuss the matter ; I know what is best for you , ' and Kitty sent social , wide-awake mamma to bed , there to lie thinking soberly till Mrs. Kit came for the lamp .
` Have you had a happy day , love ? '
she asked , bending over the pillow , as her mother used to do .
` No , ma'am . '
` Then it was your own fault , my child .
Obey your parents in all things , and you will be both good and happy . '
` That depends ' -- began mamma , but stopped short , remembering that to-morrow she would be on the other side , and anything she might say now would be quoted against her .
But Kitty understood , and her heart melted as she hugged her mother and said in her own caressing way -- ` Poor little mamma !
did she have a hard time ?
and did n't she like being a good girl and minding her parents ? '
Mamma laughed also , and held Kitty close , but all she said was -- ` Good-night , dear ; do n't be troubled : it will be all right to-morrow . ' '
I hope so , ' and with a hearty kiss , Kitty went thoughtfully downstairs to meet several little friends whom she had asked to spend the evening with her .
As the ladies left the room , papa leaned back and prepared to smoke a cigar , feeling that he needed the comfort of it after this trying day .
But Harry was down upon him at once . '
A very bad habit -- ca n't allow it .
Throw that dirty thing away , and go and get your Latin lesson for to-morrow .
The study is quiet , and we want this room . '
` But I am tired .
I ca n't study at night .
Let me off till to-morrow , please , sir ! '
begged papa , who had not looked at Latin since he left school .
` Not a word , sir !
I shall listen to no excuses , and shall not let you neglect your education on any account , ' and Harry slapped the table  la papa in the most impressive manner .
Mr. Fairbairn went away into the dull study and made believe do his lesson , but he really smoked and meditated .
The young folks had a grand revel , and kept it up till ten o'clock , while mamma lay awake , longing to go down and see what they were about , and papa shortly fell asleep , quite exhausted by the society of a Latin Grammar .
` Idle boy , is this the way you study ? '
said Harry , audaciously tweaking him by the ear .
` No , it 's the way you do ; ' and feeling that his day of bondage was over , papa cast off his allegiance , tucked a child under each arm , and marched upstairs with them , kicking and screaming .
Setting them down at the nursery door , he said , shaking his finger at them in an awful manner , -- ` Wait a bit , you rascals , and see what you will get to-morrow . '
With this dark threat he vanished into his own room , and a minute after a great burst of laughter set their fears at rest .
` It was a fair bargain , so I 'm not afraid , ' said Harry stoutly .
` He kissed us good-night though he did glower at us , so I guess it was only fun , ' added Kitty .
` Has n't it been a funny day ? '
asked Harry .
` Do n't think I quite like it , everything is so turned round , ' said Kitty .
` Guess they did n't like it very well .
Hear 'em talking in there ; ' and Harry held up his finger , for a steady murmur of conversation had followed the laughter in papa and mamma 's room . '
I wonder if our joke will do any good ? '
said Kitty thoughtfully .
` Wait and see , ' answered Aunt Betsey , popping her night-capped head out of her room with a nod and a smile that sent them to bed full of hope for the future .
DANDELION .
Down by the sea lived Ben the fisherman , with his wife , and little son , who was called Dandelion , because he wore yellow pinafores , and had curly , yellow hair , that covered his head with a golden fuzz .
A very happy family , for Ben was kind and industrious , Hetty , his wife , a cheerful , busy creature , and Dandelion the jolliest three-year-old baby who ever made sand-pies and paddled on the beach .
But one day a great trouble came to them .
Ben and his fellow-fishermen sailed blithely away as usual , and Hetty watched the fleet of white-winged boats out of the bay , thinking how pretty they looked with the sunshine on them ; while Dandelion stood clapping his chubby hands , and saying , as he always did , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
But Daddy did not come soon that time ; for a great storm arose , and when some of the boats came scudding home at nightfall , Ben 's was not among them .
All night the gale raged , and in the morning , Ben 's boat lay empty and broken on the shore .
His mates shook their heads when they saw the wreck , and drew their rough hands over their eyes ; for Ben was a good seaman , and they knew he never would desert his boat alive .
They looked for him far and wide , but could hear nothing of him , and felt sure that he had perished in the storm .
They tried to comfort poor Hetty , but she would not be comforted .
Her heart seemed broken ; and if it had not been for her baby , her neighbours feared that she would have gone to join Ben in his grave under the sea .
Dandelion did n't understand why every one was so sad , and why his father stayed away so long ; but he never lost his cheerfulness , never gave up hoping , or stopped saying , with a contented smile , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
The sunshiny little face was Hetty 's only comfort .
The sight of the fuzzy yellow head , bobbing round the house , alone made it endurable ; and the touch of the loving baby hands kept her from the despair which made her long to end her sorrow in the sea .
People do n't believe in fairies now-a-days ; nevertheless , good spirits still exist , and help us in our times of trouble , better even than the little people we used to read about .
One of these household spirits is called Love , and it took the shape of Dandelion to comfort poor Hetty .
Another is called Labor : a beautiful , happy spirit this is , and it did its part so well that there was little time for bitter thoughts or vain regrets ; for Hetty 's spinning-wheel must go , in order to earn bread for Dandelion , whose mouth was always ready for food , like a hungry bird 's .
Busily hummed the wheel : and , as it flew , it seemed to catch an echo of the baby 's cheerful song , saying , over and over , ` Daddy tummin ' soon , ' till Hetty stopped crying as she worked , and listened to the cheerful whirr .
` Yes , I shall see my good Ben again , if I wait patiently .
Baby takes comfort in saying that , and I will , too ; though the poor dear will get tired of it soon , ' she said .
But Dandelion did n't get tired .
He firmly believed what he said , and nothing could change his mind .
He had been much troubled at seeing the boat laid up on the beach all broken and dismantled , but his little mind could n't take in the idea of shipwreck and death ; so , after thinking it over , he decided that Daddy was waiting somewhere for a new boat to be sent to bring him home .
This idea was so strong that the child gathered together his store of toy-boats , -- for he had many , as they were his favourite plaything , -- and launched them , one after another , telling them to find his father , and bring him home .
As Dandelion was not allowed to play on the beach , except at low tide , the little boats sailed safely away on the receding waves , and the child was sure that some of them would get safely into the distant port where Daddy was waiting .
All the boats were launched at last , all sailed bravely away ; but none came back , and little Dandy was much disappointed .
He babbled about it to himself ; told the peeps and the horse-shoes , the snails and the lobsters , of his trouble ; begged the gulls to fly away and find Daddy ; and every windy night when the sea dashed on the shore and the shutters rattled , he would want the lamp put in the window , as it used to be when they expected Ben , and tried to make home look cheerful , even before he got there .
Hetty used to humour the child , though it made her heart ache to know that the light shone in vain .
At such times Dandy would prance about the room in his little shirt , and talk about Daddy as happily as if long months had not passed without bringing him back .
When fairly in his big , old-fashioned cradle , the boy would lie , looking more like a dandelion than ever , in his yellow flannel night-gown , playing with his toes , or rocking himself to and fro , calling the cradle his boat , and blithely telling his mother that he was sailing ` far way to find Daddy . '
When tired of play , he lay still and asked her to sing to him .
She had no heart for the gay old sea-songs she used to sing for lullabies ; so she sung hymns in her soft , motherly voice , till the blue eyes closed and the golden head lay still , looking so pretty , with the circle of bright hair above the rosy face .
` My little saint , ' Hetty called him ; and though she often wept sadly as she watched him , the bitterness of her grief passed away , and a patient hope came to her ; for the child 's firm faith impressed her deeply , the pious music of the sweet old hymns comforted her sore heart , and daily labor kept her cheerful in spite of herself .
The neighbours wondered at the change that came over her , but she could not explain it ; and no one knew that the three good spirits called Love , Labor , and Hope , were working their pleasant miracles .
Six long months went by , and no one ever thought of seeing Ben again , -- no one but his little son , who still watched for him here , and his wife , who waited to meet him hereafter .
One bright spring day something happened .
The house was as tidy as ever ; the wheel hummed briskly as Hetty sung softly to herself with a cheerful face , though there were white hairs among the brown , and her eyes had a thoughtful , absent look at times .
Dandelion , more chubby and cheery than ever , sat at her feet , with the sunshine making a golden glory of his yellow hair , as he tried his new boat in the tub of water his mother kept for her little sailor , or tugged away with his fat fingers at a big needle which he was trying to pull through a bit of cloth intended for a sail .
The faithful little soul had not forgotten his father , but had come to the conclusion that the reason his boats never prospered was because they had n't large enough sails ; so he was intent on rigging a new boat lately given him , with a sail that could not fail to waft Ben safely home .
With his mouth puckered up , his downy eyebrows knit , and both hands pulling at the big needle , he was so wrapped in his work that he did not mind the stopping of the wheel when Hetty fell into a reverie , thinking of the happy time when she and Ben should meet again .
Sitting so , neither heard a step come softly over the sand ; neither saw an eager , brown face peer in at the door ; and neither knew for a minute , that Ben was watching them , with a love and longing in his heart that made him tremble like a woman .
Dandelion saw him first ; for , as he pulled the thread through with a triumphant jerk , the small sailmaker lost his balance , tumbled over , and lay staring up at the tall man with his blue eyes so wide open , they looked as if they would never shut again .
All of a sudden , he shouted , with a joyful shout , ` Daddy 's tummin ' ! '
and the next instant , vanished , ship and all , in the arms of the man who wore the rough jacket .
Over went the spinning-wheel , as Hetty vanished likewise ; and for a time there was nothing but sobbing and kissing , clinging , and thanking Heaven for its kindness to them .
When they grew quieter , and Ben got into his old chair , with his wife on one knee and his boy on the other , he told them how he was wrecked in the gale , picked up by an outward-bound ship , and only able to get back after months of sickness and delay .
` My boaty fetched him , ' said Dandelion , feeling that every thing had turned out just as he expected .
` So it did , my precious ; leastways , your faith helped , I have n't a doubt , ' cried Hetty , hugging the curly headed prophet close , as she told Ben all that had happened .
Ben did n't say much , but a few great tears rolled down the rough blue jacket , as he looked from the queer sail with its two big stitches to the little son , whose love , he firmly believed , had kept him safe through many dangers and brought him home at last .
When the fine new boat was built , no one thought it strange that Ben named it ` Dandelion ; ' no one laughed at the little sail which always hung over the fire-place in the small house : and long years after , when Ben was an old man , and sat by the door with his grand-children on his knee , the story which always pleased them best was that which ended with the funny words , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
MADAM CLUCK AND HER FAMILY .
There never was a prouder mamma than Madam Cluck when she led forth her family of eight downy little chicks .
Chanticleer , Strut , Snowball , Speckle , Peep , Peck , Downy , and Blot were their names ; and no sooner were they out of the shell than they began to chirp and scratch as gaily as if the big world in which they suddenly found themselves was made for their especial benefit .
It was a fine brood ; but poor Madam Cluck had bad luck with her chicks , for they were her first , and she did n't know how to manage them .
Old Aunt Cockletop told her that she did n't , and predicted that ` those poor dears would come to bad ends . '
Aunt Cockletop was right , as you will see , when I have told the sad history of this unfortunate family .
The tragedy began with Chanty , who was the boldest little cockadoodle who ever tried to crow .
Before he had a feather to his bit of a tail , Chanty began to fight , and soon was known as the most quarrelsome chick in the farm-yard .
Having pecked his brothers and sisters , he tried to do the same to his playmates , the ducklings , goslings , and young turkeys , and was so disagreeable that all the fowls hated him .
One day , a pair of bantams arrived , -- pretty little white birds , with red crests and nice yellow feet .
Chanty thought he could beat Mr. Bantam easily , he was so small , and invited him to fight .
Mr. B. declined .
Then Chanty called him a coward , and gave Mrs. B. a peck , which so enraged her spouse that he flew at Chanty like a gamecock , and a dreadful fight followed , which ended in Chanty 's utter defeat , for he died from his wounds .
Downy and Snowball soon followed ; for the two sweet little things would swing on the burdock-leaves that grew over the brook .
Sitting side by side , the plump sisters were placidly swaying up and down over the clear brown water rippling below , when -- ah !
sad to relate -- the stem broke , and down went leaf , chickens and all , to a watery death .
` I 'm the most unlucky hen ever hatched ! '
groaned poor Madam Cluck ; and it did seem so , for the very next week , Speckle , the best and prettiest of the brood , went to walk with Aunt Cockletop , ` grasshoppering ' they called it , in the great field across the road .
What a nice time Speckle did have , to be sure ; for the grasshoppers were lively and fat , and aunt was in an unusually amiable mood .
` Never run away from anything , but face danger and conquer it , like a brave chick , ' said the old biddy , as she went clucking through the grass , with her gray turban wagging in the wind .
Speckle had hopped away from a toad with a startled chirp , which caused aunt to utter that remark .
The words had hardly left her beak , when a shadow above made her look up , give one loud croak of alarm , and then scuttle away , as fast as legs and wings could carry her .
Little Speckle , remembering the advice , and unconscious of the danger , stood her ground as a great hawk came circling nearer and nearer , till , with a sudden dart he pounced on the poor chicken , and bore it away chirping dismally , ` Aunty told me not to run .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
It was a dreadful blow to Mrs. Cluck ; and Aunt Cockletop did n't show herself for a whole day after that story was known , for every fowl in the yard twitted her with the difference between her preaching and her practice .
Strut , the other son , was the vainest chick ever seen ; and the great aim of his life was to crow louder than any other cock in the neighbourhood .
He was at it from morning till night , and everyone was tired to death of hearing his shrill , small voice making funny attempts to produce hoarse little crows , as he sat on the wall and stretched his yellow neck , till his throat quite ached with the effort .
` Ah !
if I could only fly to the highest beam in the barn , and give a splendid crow that everyone could hear , I should be perfectly happy , ' said this silly little fowl , as he stared up at the loft where the old cock often sat .
So he tried every day to fly and crow , and at last managed to get up ; then how he did strut and rustle his feathers , while his playmates sat below and watched him .
` You 'll fall and get hurt , ' said his sister Blot .
` Hold your tongue , you ugly little thing , and do n't talk to me .
I 'm going to crow , and ca n't be interrupted by any silly bit of a hen .
Be quiet , down there , and hear if I ca n't do it as well as daddy . '
The chicks stopped scratching and peeping , and sat in a row to hear Strut crow .
Perching himself on the beam , he tried his best , but only a droll ` cock-a-doodle-doo ' came of it , and all the chicks laughed .
That made Strut mad , and he resolved to crow , even if he killed himself doing it .
He gave an angry cluck , flapped his wings , and tried again .
Alas , alas , for poor Strut !
he leaned so far forward in his frantic effort to get a big crow out , that he toppled over and fell bump on the hard barn-floor , killing himself instantly .
For some time after this , Mrs. Cluck kept her three remaining little ones close to her side , watching over them with maternal care , till they were heartily tired of her anxious cluckings .
Peep and Peck were always together , being very fond of one another .
Peep was a most inquisitive chicken , poking her head into every nook and corner , and never satisfied till she had seen all there was to see .
Peck was a glutton , eating everything she could find , and often making herself ill by gobbling too fast , and forgetting to eat a little gravel to help digest her food .
` Do n't go out of the barn , children .
I 'm going to lay an egg , and ca n't look after you just now , ' said their mother one day .
` Yes , ma'am , ' chirped the chickens ; and then as she went rustling into the hay-mow , they began to run about and enjoy themselves with all their might .
Peep found a little hole into the meal-room , and slipped in , full of joy at the sight of the bags , boxes , and bins .
` I 'll eat all I want , and then I 'll call Peck , ' she said ; and having taken a taste of every thing , she was about to leave , when she heard the stableman coming , and in her fright could n't find the hole , so flew into the meal-bin and hid herself .
Sam never saw her , but shut down the cover of the bin as he passed , and left poor Peep to die .
No one knew what had become of her till some days later , when she was found dead in the meal , with her poor little claws sticking straight up as if imploring help .
Peck meanwhile got into mischief also ; for , in her hunt for something good to eat , she strayed into the sheep-shed , and finding some salt , ate as much as she liked , not knowing that salt is bad for hens .
Having taken all she wanted , she ran back to the barn , and was innocently catching gnats when her mamma came out of the hay-mow with a loud .
` Cut-cut-cut-ca-dar-cut ! '
` Where is Peep ? '
asked Mrs. Cluck .
` Do n't know , ma .
She ' -- there Peck stopped suddenly , rolled up her eyes , and began to stagger about as if she was tipsy .
` Mercy on us !
What 's the matter with the chick ? '
cried Mrs. Cluck , in great alarm .
` Fits , ma'am , ' answered Doctor Drake , who just then waddled by .
` Oh !
what can I do ? '
screamed the distracted hen .
` Nothing , ma'am ; it 's fatal . '
And the doctor waddled on to visit Dame Partlet 's son , who was ill of the pip .
` My child , my child !
do n't flap and stagger so !
Let me hold you !
Taste this mint-leaf !
Have a drop of water !
What shall I do ? '
As poor Mrs. Cluck sighed and sobbed , her unhappy child went scuffling about on her back , gasping and rolling up her eyes in great anguish , for she had eaten too much of the fatal salt , and there was no help for her .
When all was over they buried the dead chicken under a currant bush , covered the little grave with chickweed , and the bereaved parent wore a black string round her leg for a month .
Blot , ` the last of that bright band , ' needed no mourning for she was as black as a crow .
This was the reason why her mother never had loved her as much as she did the others , who were all white , gray , or yellow .
Poor little Blot had been much neglected by every one ; but now her lonely mamma discovered how good and affectionate a chicken she was , for Blot was a great comfort to her , never running away or disobeying in any way , but always close to her side , ready to creep under her wing , or bring her a plump bug when the poor biddy 's appetite failed her .
They were very happy together till Thanksgiving drew near , when a dreadful pestilence seemed to sweep through the farm-yard ; for turkeys , hens , ducks , and geese fell a prey to it , and were seen by their surviving relatives featherless , pale , and stiff , borne away to some unknown place whence no fowl returned .
Blot was waked one night by a great cackling and fluttering in the hen-house , and peeping down from her perch saw a great hand glide along the roost , clutch her beloved mother by the leg , and pull her off , screaming dolefully , ` Good-by , good-by , my darling child ! '
Aunt Cockletop pecked and croaked fiercely ; but , tough as she was , the old biddy did not escape , and many another amiable hen and gallant cockadoodle fell a victim to that mysterious hand .
In the morning few remained , and Blot felt that she was a forlorn orphan , a thought which caused her to sit with her head under her wing for several hours , brooding over her sad lot , and longing to join her family in some safe and happy land , where fowls live in peace .
She had her wish very soon , for one day , when the first snowflakes began to flutter out of the cold gray sky , Blot saw a little kitten mewing pitifully as it sat under the fence .
` What is the matter , dear ? '
asked kind Blot .
` I 'm lost , and I ca n't find my way home , ' answered the kitten , shivering with cold . '
I live at the red farm-house over the hill , only I do n't know which road to take . '
` I 'll show you .
Come at once , for night is coming on , and the snow will soon be too deep for us , ' said Blot .
So away they went , as fast as their small legs could carry them ; but it was a long way , and dusk came on before the red farm-house appeared .
` Now I 'm safe ; thank you very much .
Wo n't you come in , and stay all night ?
My mother will be glad to see you , ' said the kit rubbing her soft white face against Blot 's little black breast .
` It 's against the rule to stay out all night , and I promised to be in early ; so , good-by , dear . '
And off trotted Blot along the snowy road , hoping to get home before the hen-house door was shut .
Faster and faster fell the snow darker and darker grew the night , and colder and colder became poor Blot 's little feet as she waded through the drifts .
The firelight was shining out into the gloom , as the half-frozen chicken came into the yard , to find all doors shut , and no shelter left for her but the bough of a leafless tree .
Too stiff and weak to fly up , she crept as close as possible to the bright glow which shone across the door-step , and with a shiver put her little head under her wing , trying to forget hunger , weariness , and the bitter cold , and wait patiently for morning .
But when morning came , little Blot lay frozen stiff under a coverlet of snow : and the tender-hearted children sighed as they dug a grave for the last of the unfortunate family of the Clucks .
A CURIOUS CALL .
I have often wondered what the various statues standing about the city think of all day , and what criticisms they would make upon us and our doings , if they could speak .
I frequently stop and stare at them , wondering if they do n't feel lonely ; if they would n't be glad of a nod as we go by ; and I always long to offer my umbrella to shield their uncovered heads on a rainy day , especially to good Ben Franklin , when the snow lies white on his benevolent forehead .
I was always fond of this old gentleman ; and one of my favourite stories when a little girl , was that of his early life , and the time when he was so poor he walked about Philadelphia with a roll of bread under each arm , eating a third as he went .
I never pass without giving him a respectful look , and wishing he could know how grateful I am for all he had done in the printing line ; for , without types and presses , where would the books be ?
Well , I never imagined that he understood why the tall woman in the big bonnet stared at him ; but he did , and he liked it , and managed to let me know it in a very curious manner , as you shall hear .
As I look out , the first thing I see is the great gilt eagle on the City-Hall dome .
There he sits , with open wings , all day long , looking down on the people , who must appear like ants scampering busily to and fro about an ant-hill .
The sun shines on him splendidly in the morning ; the gay flag waves and rustles in the wind above him sometimes ; and the moonlight turns him to silver when she comes glittering up the sky .
When it rains he never shakes his feathers ; snow beats on him without disturbing his stately repose ; and he never puts his head under his wing at night , but keeps guard in darkness as in day , like a faithful sentinel .
I like the big , lonely bird , call him my particular fowl , and often wish he 'd turn his head and speak to me .
One night he did actually do it , or seemed to ; for I 've never been able to decide whether I dreamed what I 'm going to tell you , or whether it really happened .
It was a stormy night !
and , as I drew down my curtain , I said to myself , after peering through the driving snow to catch a glimpse of my neighbour , ` Poor Goldy !
he 'll have a rough time of it .
I hope this northeaster wo n't blow him off his perch . '
Then I sat down by my fire , took my knitting , and began to meditate .
I 'm sure I did n't fall asleep ; but I ca n't prove it , so we 'll say no more about it .
All at once there came a tap at my door , as I thought ; and I said ` Come in , ' just as Mr. Poe did when that unpleasant raven paid him a call .
No one came , so I went to see who it was .
Not a sign of a human soul in the long hall , only little Jessie , the poodle , asleep on her mat .
Down I sat ; but in a minute the tap came again ; this time so loud that I knew it was at the window , and went to open it , thinking that one of my doves wanted to come in perhaps .
Up went the sash , and in bounced something so big and so bright that it dazzled and scared me .
` Do n't be frightened , ma'am ; it 's only me , ' said a hoarse voice .
So I collected my wits , rubbed my eyes , and looked at my visitor .
It was the gold eagle off the City Hall !
I do n't expect to be believed ; but I wish you 'd been here to see , for I give you my word , it was a sight to behold .
How he ever got in at such a small window I ca n't tell ; but there he was , strutting majestically up and down the room , his golden plumage rustling , and his keen eyes flashing as he walked .
I really did n't know what to do .
I could n't imagine what he came for ; I had my doubts about the propriety of offering him a chair ; and he was so much bigger than I expected that I was afraid he might fly away with me , as the roc did with Sindbad : so I did nothing but sidle to the door , ready to whisk out , if my strange guest appeared to be peckishly inclined .
My respectful silence seemed to suit him ; for , after a turn or two , he paused , nodded gravely , and said affably , ` Good-evening , ma'am .
I stepped over to bring you old Ben 's respects , and to see how you were getting on . '
` I 'm very much obliged , sir .
May I inquire who Mr. Old-Ben is ?
I 'm afraid I have n't the honour of his acquaintance . '
` Yes , you have ; it 's Ben Franklin , of City-Hall yard .
You know him ; and he wished me to thank you for your interest in him . '
` Dear me !
how very odd !
Will you sit down , sir ? '
` Never sit !
I 'll perch here ; ' and the great fowl took his accustomed attitude just in front of the fire , looking so very splendid that I could n't keep my eyes off of him .
` Ah !
you often do that .
Never mind ; I rather like it , ' said the eagle , graciously , as he turned his brilliant eye upon me .
I was rather abashed ; but being very curious , I ventured to ask a few questions , as he seemed in a friendly mood .
` Being a woman , sir , I 'm naturally of an inquiring turn ; and I must confess that I have a strong desire to know how it happens that you take your walks abroad , when you are supposed to be permanently engaged at home ? '
He shrugged his shoulders , and actually winked at me , as he replied , ` That 's all people know of what goes on under , or rather over , their noses .
Bless you , ma'am !
I leave my roost every night , and enjoy myself in all sorts of larks .
Excuse the expression ; but , being ornithological , it is more proper for me than for some people who use it . '
` What a gay old bird ! '
thought I , feeling quite at home after that .
` Please tell me what you do , when the shades of evening prevail , and you go out for a frolic ? ' '
I am a gentleman ; therefore I behave myself , ' returned the eagle ; with a stately air . '
I must confess , I smoke a great deal : but that 's not my fault , it 's the fault of the chimneys .
They keep it up all day , and I have to take it ; just as you poor ladies have to take cigar smoke , whether you like it or not .
My amusements are of a wholesome kind .
I usually begin by taking a long flight down the harbour , for a look at the lighthouses , the islands , the shipping , and the sea .
My friends , the gulls , bring their reports to me ; for they are the harbour-police , and I take notes of their doings .
The school-ship is an object of interest to me , and I often perch on the mast-head , to see how the lads are getting on .
Then I take a turn over the city , gossip with the weathercocks , pay my compliments to the bells , inspect the fire-alarm , and pick up information by listening at the telegraph wires .
People often talk about `` a little bird '' who spreads news ; but they do n't know how that figure of speech originated .
It is the sparrows sitting on the wires , who receive the electric shock , and , being hollow-boned , the news go straight to their heads ; they then fly about , chirping it on the housetops , and the air carries it everywhere .
That 's the way rumours rise and news spread . '
` If you 'll allow , I 'll make a note of that interesting fact , ' said I , wondering if I might believe him .
He appeared to fall into a reverie while I jotted down the sparrow story , and it occurred to me that perhaps I ought to offer my distinguished guest some refreshment ; but , when I modestly alluded to it , he said , with an aldermanic air , ` No , thank you ; I 've just dined at the Parker House . '
Now , I really could not swallow that ; and so plainly betrayed my incredulity , that the eagle explained .
` The savoury smells which rise to my nostrils from that excellent hotel , with an occasional sniff from the Tremont , are quite sufficient to satisfy my appetite ; for , having no stomach , I do n't need much food , and I drink nothing but water . ' '
I wish others would follow your example in that latter habit , ' said I , respectfully , for I was beginning to see that there was something in my bird , though he was hollow .
` Will you allow me to ask if the other statues in the city fly by night ? '
` They promenade in the parks ; and occasionally have social gatherings , when they discuss politics , education , medicine , or any of the subjects in which they are interested .
Ah !
we have grand times when you are all asleep .
It quite repays me for being obliged to make an owl of myself . '
` Do the statues come from the shops to these parties ? '
I asked , resolving to take a late walk the next moonlight night .
` Sometimes ; but they get lazy and delicate , living in close , warm places .
We laugh at cold and bad weather , and are so strong and hearty that I should n't be surprised if I saw Webster and Everett flying round the Common on the new-fashioned velocipedes , for they believed in exercise .
Goethe and Schiller often step over from De Vries 's window , to flirt with the goddesses , who come down from their niches on Horticultural Hall .
Nice , robust young women are Pomona and Flora .
If your niminy-piminy girls could see them run , they would stop tilting through the streets , and learn that the true Grecian Bend is the line of beauty always found in straight shoulders , well-opened chest , and an upright figure , firmly planted on active feet . '
` In your rambles do n't you find a great deal of misery ? '
said I , to change the subject , for he was evidently old-fashioned in his notions .
` Many sad sights ! '
And he shook his head with a sigh ; then added , briskly , ` But there is a deal of charity in our city , and it does its work beautifully .
By the by , I heard of a very sweet charity the other day , -- a church whose Sunday school is open to all the poor children who will come ; and there , in pleasant rooms , with books , pictures , kindly teachers , and a fatherly minister to welcome them , the poor little creatures find refreshment for their hungry souls .
I like that ; it 's a lovely illustration of the text , `` Suffer little children to come unto me ; '' and I call it practical Christianity . '
He did like it , my benevolent old bird ; for he rustled his great wings , as if he wanted to clap them , if there had only been room ; and every feather shone as if a clearer light than that of my little fire had fallen on it as he spoke .
` You are a literary woman , hey ? '
he said suddenly , as if he 'd got a new idea , and was going to pounce upon me with it .
` Ahem !
I do a little in that line , ' I answered , with a modest cough .
` Then tell people about that place ; write some stories for the children ; go and help teach them ; do something , and make others do what they can to increase the sabbath sunshine that brightens one day in the week for the poor babies who live in shady places . ' '
I should be glad to do my best ; and , if I 'd known before ' -- I began .
` You might have known , if you 'd looked about you .
People are so wrapt up in their own affairs they do n't do half they might .
Now , then , hand me a bit of paper , and I 'll give you the address , so you wo n't have any excuse for forgetting what I tell you . '
` Mercy on us ; what will he do next ? '
thought I , as he tweaked a feather out of his breast , gave the nib a peck , and then coolly wrote these words on the card I handed him : ' Church of the Disciples .
Knock and it shall be opened !
' There it was , in letters of gold ; and , while I looked at it , feeling reproached that I had n't known it sooner , my friend , -- he did n't seem a stranger any more , -- said in a business-like tone , as he put back his pen , ` Now I must be off .
Old Ben reads an article on the `` Abuses of the Press at the present day , '' and I must be there to report . '
` It must be very interesting .
I suppose you do n't allow mortals at your meetings ? '
said I , burning to go , in spite of the storm .
` No , ma'am .
We meet on the Common ; and , in the present state of the weather , I do n't think flesh and blood would stand it .
Bronze , marble , and wood are sterner stuff , and can defy the elements . '
` Good evening ; pray , call again , ' I said , hospitably . '
I will ; your eyrie suits me : but do n't expect me to call in the daytime .
I 'm on duty then , and ca n't take my eye off my charge .
The city needs a deal of watching , my dear .
Bless me !
it 's striking eight .
Your watch is seven minutes slow by the Old South .
Good-night , good-night ! '
And as I opened the window , the great bird soared away like a flash of light through the storm , leaving me so astonished at the whole performance that I have n't got over it yet .
TILLY 'S CHRISTMAS .
` I 'm so glad to-morrow is Christmas , because I 'm going to have lots of presents . '
` So am I glad , though I do n't expect any presents but a pair of mittens . '
` And so am I ; but I sha n't have any presents at all . '
As the three little girls trudged home from school they said these things , and as Tilly spoke , both the others looked at her with pity and some surprise , for she spoke cheerfully , and they wondered how she could be happy when she was so poor she could have no presents on Christmas .
` Do n't you wish you could find a purse full of money right here in the path ? '
said Kate , the child who was going to have ` lots of presents . '
` Oh , do n't I , if I could keep it honestly ! '
and Tilly 's eyes shone at the very thought .
` What would you buy ? '
asked Bessy , rubbing her cold hands , and longing for her mittens .
` I 'd buy a pair of large , warm blankets , a load of wood , a shawl for mother , and a pair of shoes for me ; and if there was enough left , I 'd give Bessy a new hat , and then she need n't wear Ben 's old felt one , ' answered Tilly .
The girls laughed at that ; but Bessy pulled the funny hat over her ears , and said she was much obliged but she 'd rather have candy .
` Let 's look , and maybe we can find a purse .
People are always going about with money at Christmas time , and some one may lose it here , ' said Kate .
So , as they went along the snowy road , they looked about them , half in earnest , half in fun .
Suddenly Tilly sprang forward , exclaiming , -- ' I see it !
I 've found it ! '
The others followed , but all stopped disappointed ; for it was n't a purse , it was only a little bird .
It lay upon the snow with its wings spread and feebly fluttering , as if too weak to fly .
Its little feet were benumbed with cold ; its once bright eyes were dull with pain , and instead of a blithe song , it could only utter a faint chirp , now and then , as if crying for help .
` Nothing but a stupid old robin ; how provoking ! '
cried Kate , sitting down to rest . '
I sha n't touch it .
I found one once , and took care of it , and the ungrateful thing flew away the minute it was well , ' said Bessy , creeping under Kate 's shawl , and putting her hands under her chin to warm them .
` Poor little birdie !
How pitiful he looks , and how glad he must be to see some one coming to help him !
I 'll take him up gently , and carry him home to mother .
Do n't be frightened , dear , I 'm your friend ; ' and Tilly knelt down in the snow , stretching her hand to the bird , with the tenderest pity in her face .
Kate and Bessy laughed .
` Do n't stop for that thing ; it 's getting late and cold : let 's go on and look for the purse , ' they said moving away .
` You would n't leave it to die ! '
cried Tilly .
` I 'd rather have the bird than the money , so I sha n't look any more .
The purse would n't be mine , and I should only be tempted to keep it ; but this poor thing will thank and love me , and I 'm so glad I came in time . '
Gently lifting the bird , Tilly felt its tiny cold claws cling to her hand , and saw its dim eyes brighten as it nestled down with a grateful chirp .
` Now I 've got a Christmas present after all , ' she said , smiling , as they walked on . '
I always wanted a bird , and this one will be such a pretty pet for me . '
` He 'll fly away the first chance he gets , and die anyhow ; so you 'd better not waste your time over him , ' said Bessy .
` He ca n't pay you for taking care of him , and my mother says it is n't worth while to help folks that ca n't help us , ' added Kate .
` My mother says , `` Do as you 'd be done by ; '' and I 'm sure I 'd like any one to help me if I was dying of cold and hunger .
`` Love your neighbour as yourself , '' is another of her sayings .
This bird is my little neighbour , and I 'll love him and care for him , as I often wish our rich neighbour would love and care for us , ' answered Tilly , breathing her warm breath over the benumbed bird , who looked up at her with confiding eyes , quick to feel and know a friend .
` What a funny girl you are , ' said Kate ; ` caring for that silly bird , and talking about loving your neighbour in that sober way .
Mr. King do n't care a bit for you , and never will , though he knows how poor you are ; so I do n't think your plan amounts to much . ' '
I believe it , though ; and shall do my part , any way .
Good-night .
I hope you 'll have a merry Christmas , and lots of pretty things , ' answered Tilly , as they parted .
Her eyes were full , and she felt so poor as she went on alone toward the little old house where she lived .
It would have been so pleasant to know that she was going to have some of the pretty things all children love to find in their full stockings on Christmas morning .
And pleasanter still to have been able to give her mother something nice .
So many comforts were needed , and there was no hope of getting them ; for they could barely get food and fire .
` Never mind , birdie , we 'll make the best of what we have , and be merry in spite of every thing .
You shall have a happy Christmas , any way ; and I know God wo n't forget us if every one else does . '
She stopped a minute to wipe her eyes , and lean her cheek against the bird 's soft breast , finding great comfort in the little creature , though it could only love her , nothing more .
` See , mother , what a nice present I 've found , ' she cried , going in with a cheery face that was like sunshine in the dark room .
` I 'm glad of that , dearie ; for I have n't been able to get my little girl anything but a rosy apple .
Poor bird !
Give it some of your warm bread and milk . '
` Why , mother , what a big bowlful !
I 'm afraid you gave me all the milk , ' said Tilly , smiling over the nice , steaming supper that stood ready for her .
` I 've had plenty , dear .
Sit down and dry your wet feet , and put the bird in my basket on this warm flannel . '
Tilly peeped into the closet and saw nothing there but dry bread .
` Mother 's given me all the milk , and is going without her tea , 'cause she knows I 'm hungry .
Now I 'll surprise her , and she shall have a good supper too .
She is going to split wood , and I 'll fix it while she 's gone . '
So Tilly put down the old tea-pot , carefully poured out a part of the milk , and from her pocket produced a great , plummy bun , that one of the school-children had given her , and she had saved for her mother .
A slice of the dry bread was nicely toasted , and the bit of butter set by for her put on it .
When her mother came in there was the table drawn up in a warm place , a hot cup of tea ready , and Tilly and birdie waiting for her .
Such a poor little supper , and yet such a happy one ; for love , charity , and contentment were guests there , and that Christmas eve was a blither one than that up at the great house , where lights shone , fires blazed , a great tree glittered , and music sounded , as the children danced and played .
` We must go to bed early , for we 've only wood enough to last over to-morrow .
I shall be paid for my work the day after , and then we can get some , ' said Tilly 's mother , as they sat by the fire .
` If my bird was only a fairy bird , and would give us three wishes , how nice it would be !
Poor dear , he ca n't give me any thing ; but it 's no matter , ' answered Tilly , looking at the robin , who lay in the basket with his head under his wing , a mere little feathery bunch .
` He can give you one thing , Tilly , -- the pleasure of doing good .
That is one of the sweetest things in life ; and the poor can enjoy it as well as the rich . '
As her mother spoke , with her tired hand softly stroking her little daughter 's hair , Tilly suddenly started and pointed to the window , saying , in a frightened whisper , -- ' I saw a face , -- a man 's face , looking in !
It 's gone now ; but I truly saw it . '
` Some traveller attracted by the light perhaps .
I 'll go and see . '
And Tilly 's mother went to the door .
No one was there .
The wind blew cold , the stars shone , the snow lay white on field and wood , and the Christmas moon was glittering in the sky .
` What sort of a face was it ? '
asked Tilly 's mother , coming back . '
A pleasant sort of face , I think ; but I was so startled I do n't quite know what it was like .
I wish we had a curtain there , ' said Tilly . '
I like to have our light shine out in the evening , for the road is dark and lonely just here , and the twinkle of our lamp is pleasant to people 's eyes as they go by .
We can do so little for our neighbours , I am glad to cheer the way for them .
Now put these poor old shoes to dry , and go to bed , dearie ; I 'll come soon . '
Tilly went , taking her bird with her to sleep in his basket near by , lest he should be lonely in the night .
Soon the little house was dark and still , and no one saw the Christmas spirits at their work that night .
When Tilly opened the door next morning , she gave a loud cry , clapped her hands , and then stood still ; quite speechless with wonder and delight .
There , before the door , lay a great pile of wood , all ready to burn , a big bundle and a basket , with a lovely nosegay of winter roses , holly , and evergreen tied to the handle .
` Oh , mother !
did the fairies do it ? '
cried Tilly , pale with her happiness , as she seized the basket , while her mother took in the bundle .
` Yes , dear , the best and dearest fairy in the world , called `` Charity . ''
She walks abroad at Christmas time , does beautiful deeds like this , and does not stay to be thanked , ' answered her mother with full eyes , as she undid the parcel .
There they were , -- the warm , thick blankets , the comfortable shawls , the new shoes , and , best of all , a pretty winter hat for Bessy .
The basket was full of good things to eat , and on the flowers lay a paper , saying , -- ` For the little girl who loves her neighbour as herself . '
` Mother , I really think my bird is a fairy bird , and all these splendid things come from him , ' said Tilly , laughing and crying with joy .
It really did seem so , for as she spoke , the robin flew to the table , hopped to the nosegay , and perching among the roses , began to chirp with all his little might .
The sun streamed in on flowers , bird , and happy child , and no one saw a shadow glide away from the window ; no one ever knew that Mr. King had seen and heard the little girls the night before , or dreamed that the rich neighbour had learned a lesson from the poor neighbour .
And Tilly 's bird was a fairy bird ; for by her love and tenderness to the helpless thing , she brought good gifts to herself , happiness to the unknown giver of them , and a faithful little friend who did not fly away , but stayed with her till the snow was gone , making summer for her in the winter-time .
MY LITTLE GENTLEMAN .
No one would have thought of calling him so , this ragged , barefooted , freckle-faced Jack , who spent his days carrying market-baskets for the butcher , or clean clothes for Mrs. Quinn , selling chips , or grubbing in the ash-heaps for cinders .
But he was honestly earning his living , doing his duty as well as he knew how , and serving those poorer and more helpless than himself , and that is being a gentleman in the best sense of that fine old word .
He had no home but Mrs. Quinn 's garret ; and for this he paid by carrying the bundles and getting the cinders for her fire .
Food and clothes he picked up as he could ; and his only friend was little Nanny .
Her mother had been kind to him when the death of his father left him all alone in the world ; and when she , too , passed away , the boy tried to show his gratitude by comforting the little girl , who thought there was no one in the world like her Jack .
Old Mrs. Quinn took care of her , waiting till she was strong enough to work for herself ; but Nanny had been sick , and still sat about , a pale , little shadow of her former self , with a white film slowly coming over her pretty blue eyes .
This was Jack 's great trouble , and he could n't whistle it away as he did his own worries ; for he was a cheery lad , and when the baskets were heavy , the way long , the weather bitter cold , his poor clothes in rags , or his stomach empty , he just whistled , and somehow things seemed to get right .
But the day he carried Nanny the first dandelions , and she felt of them , instead of looking at them , as she said , with such pathetic patience in her little face , ' I do n't see 'em ; but I know they 're pretty , and I like 'em lots , ' Jack felt as if the blithe spring sunshine was all spoiled ; and when he tried to cheer himself up with a good whistle , his lips trembled so they would n't pucker .
` The poor dear 's eyes could be cured , I ai n't a doubt ; but it would take a sight of money , and who 's agoing to pay it ? '
said Mrs. Quinn , scrubbing away at her tub .
` How much money ? '
asked Jack . '
A hundred dollars , I dare say .
Dr. Wilkinson 's cook told me once that he done something to a lady 's eyes , and asked a thousand dollars for it . '
Jack sighed a long , hopeless sigh , and went away to fill the water-pails ; but he remembered the doctor 's name , and began to wonder how many years it would take to earn a hundred dollars .
Nanny was very patient ; but , by and by , Mrs. Quinn began to talk about sending her to some almshouse , for she was too poor to be burdened with a helpless child .
The fear of this nearly broke Jack 's heart ; and he went about with such an anxious face that it was a mercy Nanny did not see it .
Jack was only twelve , but he had a hard load to carry just then ; for the thought of his little friend , doomed to lifelong darkness for want of a little money , tempted him to steal more than once , and gave him the first fierce , bitter feeling against those better off than he .
When he carried nice dinners to the great houses and saw the plenty that prevailed there , he could n't help feeling that it was n't fair for some to have so much , and others so little .
When he saw pretty children playing in the park , or driving with their mothers , so gay , so well cared for , so tenderly loved , the poor boy 's eyes would fill to think of poor little Nanny , with no friend in the world but himself , and he so powerless to help her .
When he one day mustered courage to ring at the great doctor 's bell , begging to see him a minute , and the servant answered , gruffly , as he shut the door , ` Go along !
he ca n't be bothered with the like of you ! '
Jack clenched his hands hard as he went down the steps , and said to himself , with a most unboyish tone , ` I 'll get the money somehow , and make him let me in ! '
He did get it , and in a most unexpected way ; but he never forgot the desperate feeling that came to him that day , and all his life long he was very tender to people who were tempted in their times of trouble , and yielded , as he was saved from doing , by what seemed an accident .
Some days after his attempt at the doctor 's , as he was grubbing in a newly-deposited ash-heap , with the bitter feeling very bad , and the trouble very heavy , he found a dirty old pocket-book , and put it in his bosom without stopping to examine it ; for many boys and girls were scratching , like a brood of chickens , all round him , and the pickings were unusually good , so no time must be lost .
` Findings is havings ' was one of the laws of the ash-heap haunters ; and no one thought of disputing another 's right to the spoons and knives that occasionally found their way into the ash-barrels ; while bottles , old shoes , rags , and paper , were regular articles of traffic among them .
Jack got a good basketful that day ; and when the hurry was over sat down to rest and clear the dirt off his face with an old silk duster which he had picked out of the rubbish , thinking Mrs. Quinn might wash it up for a handkerchief .
But he did n't wipe his dirty face that day ; for , with the rag , out tumbled a pocket-book ; and on opening it he saw -- money .
Yes ; a roll of bills with two figures on all of them , -- three tens and one twenty .
It took his breath away for a minute ; then he hugged the old book tight in both his grimy hands , and rocked to and fro all in a heap among the oyster-shells and rusty tin kettles , saying to himself , with tears running down his cheeks , ' O Nanny !
O Nanny !
now I can do it ! '
I do n't think a basket of cinders ever travelled at such a rate before as Mrs. Quinn 's did that day ; for Jack tore home at a great pace , and burst into the room , waving the old duster , and shouting , ` Hooray !
I 've got it !
I 've got it ! '
It is no wonder Mrs. Quinn thought he had lost his wits ; for he looked like a wild boy , with his face all streaked with tears and red ashes , as he danced a double-shuffle till he was breathless , then showered the money into Nanny 's lap , and hugged her with another ` Hooray ! '
which ended in a choke .
When they got him quiet and heard the story , Mrs. Quinn rather damped his joy , by telling him the money was n't his , and he ought to advertise it .
` But I want it for Nanny ! '
cried Jack ; ` and how can I ever find who owns it , when there was ever so many barrels emptied in that heap , and no one knows where they came from ? '
` It 's very like you wo n't find the owner , and you can do as you please ; but it 's honest to try , I 'm thinking , for some poor girl may have lost her earnin 's this way , and we would n't like that ourselves , ' said Mrs. Quinn , turning over the shabby pocket-book , and carefully searching for some clue to its owner .
Nanny looked very sober , and Jack grabbed up the money as if it were too precious to lose .
But he was n't comfortable about it ; and after a hard fight with himself he consented to let Mrs. Quinn ask their policeman what they should do .
He was a kindly man ; and when he heard the story , said he 'd do what was right , and if he could n't find an owner , Jack should have the fifty dollars back .
How hard it was to wait !
how Jack thought and dreamed of his money , day and night !
How Nanny ran to the door to listen when a heavy step came up the stairs !
and how wistfully the poor darkened eyes turned to the light which they longed to see again .
Honest John Floyd did his duty , but he did n't find the owner ; so the old purse came back at last , and now Jack could keep it with a clear conscience .
Nanny was asleep when it happened ; and as they sat counting the dingy bills , Mrs. Quinn said to the boy , ` Jack , you 'd better keep this for yourself .
I doubt if it 's enough to do the child any good ; and you need clothes and shoes , and a heap of things , let alone the books you hanker after so much .
It ai n't likely you 'll ever find another wallet .
It 's all luck about Nanny 's eyes ; and maybe you are only throwing away a chance you 'll never have again . '
Jack leaned his head on his arms and stared at the money , all spread out there , and looking so magnificent to him that it seemed as if it could buy half the world .
He did need clothes ; his hearty boy 's appetite did long for better food ; and , oh !
how splendid it would be to go and buy the books he had wanted so long , -- the books that would give him a taste of the knowledge which was more enticing to his wide-awake young mind than clothes and food to his poor little body .
It was n't an easy thing to do ; but he was so used to making small sacrifices that the great one was less hard ; and when he had brooded over the money a few minutes in thoughtful silence , his eye went from the precious bits of paper to the dear little face in the trundle-bed , and he said , with a decided nod , ` I 'll give Nanny the chance , and work for my things , or go without 'em . '
Mrs. Quinn was a matter-of-fact body ; but her hard old face softened when he said that , and she kissed him good-night almost as gently as if she 'd been his mother .
Next day , Jack presented himself at Dr. Wilkinson 's door , with the money in one hand and Nanny in the other , saying boldly to the gruff servant , ' I want to see the doctor .
I can pay ; so you 'd better let me in . '
I 'm afraid cross Thomas would have shut the door in the boy 's face again , if it had not been for the little blind girl , who looked up at him so imploringly that he could n't resist the mute appeal .
` The doctor 's going out ; but maybe he 'll see you a minute ; ' and with that he led them into a room where stood a tall man putting on his gloves .
Jack was a modest boy ; but he was so afraid that Nanny would lose her chance , that he forgot himself , and told the little story as fast as he could -- told it well , too , I fancy ; for the doctor listened attentively , his eye going from the boy 's eager , flushed face , to the pale patient one beside him , as if the two little figures , shabby though they were , illustrated the story better than the finest artist could have done .
When Jack ended , the doctor sat Nanny on his knee , gently lifted up the half-shut eyelids , and after examining the film a minute , stroked her pretty hair , and said so kindly that she nestled her little hand confidingly into his , ' I think I can help you , my dear .
Tell me where you live , and I 'll attend to it at once , for it 's high time something was done . '
Jack told him , adding , with a manly air , as he showed the money , ' I can pay you , sir , if fifty dollars is enough . '
` Quite enough , ' said the doctor , with a droll smile .
` If it is n't , I 'll work for the rest , if you 'll trust me .
Please save Nanny 's eyes , and I 'll do any thing to pay you ! '
cried Jack , getting red and choky in his earnestness .
The doctor stopped smiling , and held out his hand in a grave , respectful way , as he said , ` I 'll trust you , my boy .
We 'll cure Nanny first ; and you and I will settle the bill afterward . '
Jack liked that ; it was a gentlemanly way of doing things , and he showed his satisfaction by smiling all over his face , and giving the big , white hand a hearty shake with both his rough ones .
The doctor was a busy man ; but he kept them some time , for there were no children in the fine house , and it seemed pleasant to have a little girl sit on his knee and a bright boy stand beside his chair ; and when , at last , they went away , they looked as if he had given them some magic medicine , which made them forget every trouble they had ever known .
Next day the kind man came to give Nanny her chance .
She had no doubt , and very little fear , but looked up at him so confidingly when all was ready , that he stooped down and kissed her softly before he touched her eyes .
` Let Jack hold my hands ; then I 'll be still , and not mind if it hurts me , ' she said .
So Jack , pale with anxiety , knelt down before her , and kept the little hands steadily in his all through the minutes that seemed so long to him .
` What do you see , my child ? '
asked the doctor , when he had done something to both eyes with a quick , skilful hand .
Nanny leaned forward , with the film all gone , and answered , with a little cry of joy , that went to the hearts of those who heard it , ` Jack 's face !
I see it !
oh , I see it ! '
Only a freckled , round face , with wet eyes and tightly-set lips ; but to Nanny it was as beautiful as the face of an angel ; and when she was laid away with bandaged eyes to rest , it haunted all her dreams , for it was the face of the little friend who loved her best .
Nanny 's chance was not a failure ; and when she saw the next dandelions he brought her , all the sunshine came back into the world brighter than ever for Jack .
Well might it seem so ; for his fifty dollars bought him many things that money seldom buys .
The doctor would n't take it at first ; but when Jack said , in the manful tone the doctor liked although it made him smile , ` It was a bargain , sir .
I wish to pay my debts ; and I sha n't feel happy if Nanny do n't have it all for her eyes .
Please do !
I 'd rather , ' -- then he took it ; and Nanny did have it , not only for her eyes , but in clothes and food and care , many times over ; for it was invested in a bank that pays good interest on every mite so given .
Jack discovered that fifty dollars was far less than most people would have had to pay , and begged earnestly to be allowed to work for the rest .
The doctor agreed to this , and Jack became his errand-boy , serving with a willingness that made a pleasure of duty ; soon finding that many comforts quietly got into his life ; that much help was given without words ; and that the days of hunger and rags , heavy burdens and dusty ash-heaps , were gone by for ever .
The happiest hours of Jack 's day were spent in the doctor 's chaise , when he made his round of visits ; for while he waited , the boy studied or read , and while they drove hither and thither , the doctor talked with him , finding an eager mind as well as a tender heart and a brave spirit under the rough jacket of his little serving-man .
But he never called him that ; for remembering the cheerfulness , self-denial , honesty , and loyalty to those he loved , shown by the boy , the good doctor proved his respect for the virtues all men should covet , wherever they are found , and always spoke of Jack with a smile , as ` My Little Gentleman . '
BACK WINDOWS .
As I sit working at my back window , I look out on a long row of other people 's back windows ; and it is quite impossible for me to help seeing and being interested in my neighbours .
There are a good many children in those houses ; and though I do n't know one of their names , I know them a great deal better than they think I do .
I never spoke a word to any of them , and never expect to do so ; yet I have my likes and dislikes among them , and could tell them things that they have said and done , which would astonish them very much , I assure you .
First , the babies , -- for there are three : the aristocratic baby , the happy-go-lucky baby , and the forlorn baby .
The aristocratic baby lives in a fine , well-furnished room , has a pretty little mamma , who wears white gowns , and pink ribbons in her cap ; likewise , a fond young papa , who evidently thinks this the most wonderful baby in Boston .
There is a stout , motherly lady , who is the grandma , I fancy , for she is always hovering about ` the dear ' with cups , blankets , or a gorgeous red worsted bird to amuse it .
Baby is a plump , rosy , sweet-faced little creature , always smiling and kissing its hand to the world in general .
In its pretty white frocks , with its own little pink or blue ribbons , and its young mamma proudly holding it up to see and be seen , my aristocratic neighbour has an easy life of it , and is evidently one of the little lilies who do nothing but blossom in the sunshine .
The happy-go-lucky baby is just able to toddle ; and I seldom pull up my curtain in the morning without seeing him at his window in his yellow flannel night-gown , taking a look at the weather .
No matter whether it rains or shines , there he is , smiling and nodding , and looking so merry , that it is evident he has plenty of sunshine bottled up in his own little heart for private use .
I depend on seeing him , and feel as if the world was not right until this golden little sun rises to shine upon me .
He do n't seem to have any one to take care of him , but trots about all day , and takes care of himself .
Sometimes he is up in the chambers with the girl , while she makes beds , and he helps ; then he takes a stroll into the parlour , and spins the gay curtain-tassels to his heart 's content ; next , he dives into the kitchen -LRB- I hope he does not tumble downstairs , but I dare say he would n't mind if he did -RRB- , and he gets pushed about by all the busy women , as they ` fly round . '
I rather think it gets too hot for him there about dinner-time ; for he often comes out into the yard for a walk at noon , and seems to find endless wonders and delights in the ash barrel , the water-but , two old flower-pots , and a little grass plat , in which he plants a choice variety of articles , in the firm faith they will come up in full bloom .
I hope the big spoon and his own red shoe will sprout and appear before any trouble is made about their mysterious disappearance .
At night I see a little shadow bobbing about on the curtain , and watch it , till with a parting glimpse at a sleepy face at the window , my small sun sets , and I leave him to his dreams .
The forlorn baby roars all day , and I do n't blame him ; for he is trotted , shaken , spanked , and scolded by a very cross nurse , who treats him like a meal bag .
I pity that little neighbour , and do n't believe he will stand it long ; for I see him double up his tiny fists , and spar away at nothing , as if getting ready for a good tussle with the world by and by , if he lives to try it .
Then the boys , -- bless their buttons !
-- how amusing they are .
One young man , aged about ten , keeps hens ; and the trials of that boy are really pathetic .
The biddies get out every day or two , and fly away all over the neighbourhood , like feathers when you shake a pillow .
They cackle and crow , and get up on sheds and fences , and trot down the streets , all at once , and that poor fellow spins round after them like a distracted top .
One by one he gets them and comes lugging them back , upside down , in the most undignified attitude , and shuts them up , and hammers away , and thinks they are all safe , and sits down to rest , when a triumphant crow from some neighbouring shed tells him that that rascally black rooster is out again for another promenade .
I 'm not blood-thirsty ; but I really do long for Thanksgiving that my neighbour Henry may find rest for the sole of his foot ; for , not till his poultry are safely eaten will he ever know where they are .
Another boy has a circus about once a week , and tries to break his neck jumping through hoops , hanging to a rope by his heels , turning somersaults in the air , and frightening his mother out of her wits by his pranks .
I suspect that he has been to see Leotard , and I admire his energy , for he is never discouraged ; and , after tumbling flat , half-a-dozen times , he merely rubs his elbows and knees , and then up and takes another .
There is a good , domestic boy , who brushes and curls his three little sisters ' hair every morning , and must do it very gently , for they seem to like it ; and I often see them watch at the back gate for him , and clap their hands , and run to meet him , sure of being welcomed as little sisters like to be met by the big brothers whom they love .
I respect that virtuous boy .
The naughty boy is very funny ; and the running fight he keeps up with the cross cook is as good as a farce .
He is a torment , but I think she could tame him , if she took the right way .
The other day she would n't let him in because she had washed up her kitchen and his boots were muddy .
He wiped them on the grass , but that would n't do ; and , after going at her with his head down , like a battering ram , he gave it up , or seemed to ; for , the minute she locked the door behind her and came out to take in her clothes , that sly dog whipped up one of the low windows , scrambled in , and danced a hornpipe all over the kitchen , while the fat cook scolded and fumbled for her key , for she could n't follow through the window .
Of course he was off upstairs by the time she got in ; but I 'm afraid he had a shaking , for I saw him glowering fiercely as he came out later with a basket , going some ` confounded errand . '
Occasionally his father brings him out and whips him for some extra bad offence , during which performance he howls dismally ; but when he is left sitting despondently and miraculously on an old chair without any seat , he soon cheers up , boos at a strange cat , whistles to his dog , -- who is just like him , -- or falls back on that standing cure for all the ills that boys are heir to , and whittles vigorously .
I know I ought to frown upon this reprehensible young person , and morally close my eyes to his pranks ; but I really ca n't do it , and am afraid I find this little black sheep the most interesting of the flock .
The girls have tea-parties , make calls , and play mother , of course ; and the sisters of the good boy have capital times up in a big nursery , with such large dollies that I can hardly tell which are the babies and which the mammas .
One little girl plays about at home with a dirty face , tumbled hair , and an old pinafore on .
She wo n't be made tidy , and I see her kick and cry when they try to make her neat .
Now and then there is a great dressing and curling ; and then I see her prancing away in her light boots , smart hat , and pretty dress , looking as fresh as a daisy .
But I do n't admire her ; for I 've been behind the scenes , you see , and I know that she likes to be fine rather than neat .
So is the girl who torments her kitty , slaps her sister , and runs away when her mother tells her not to go out of the yard .
But the house-wifely little girl who tends the baby , washes the cups , and goes to school early with a sunshiny face and kiss all round , she , now , is a neighbour worth having , and I 'd put a good mark against her name if I knew it .
I do n't know as it would be proper for me to mention the grown-up people over the way .
They go on very much as the children do ; for there is the lazy , dandified man , who gets up late , and drinks ; the cross man , who swears at the shed-door when it wo n't shut ; the fatherly man , who sits among his children every evening , and the cheery old man up in the attic , who has a flower in his window , and looks out at the world with very much the same serene smile as my orange-coloured baby .
The women , too , keep house , make calls , and play mother ; and some do n't do it well either .
The forlorn baby 's mamma never seems to cuddle and comfort him ; and some day , when the little fist lies cold and quiet , I 'm afraid she 'll wish she had .
Then the naughty boy 's mother .
I 'm very sure , if she put her arms round him sometimes , and smoothed that rough head of his , and spoke to him as only mothers can speak , that it would tame him far better than the scoldings and thrashings : for I know there is a true boy 's heart , warm and tender , somewhere under the jacket that gets dusted so often .
As for the fine lady who lets her children do as they can , while she trims her bonnet , or makes panniers , I would n't be introduced to her on any account .
But as some might think it was unjustifiable curiosity on my part to see these things , and an actionable offence to speak of them , I wo n't mention them .
I sometimes wonder if the kind spirits who feel an interest in mortals ever take a look at us on the shady side which we do n't show the world , seeing the trouble , vanities , and sins which we think no one knows .
If they love , pity , or condemn us ?
What records they keep , and what rewards they prepare for those who are so busy with their work and play that they forget who may be watching their back windows with clearer eyes and truer charity than any inquisitive old lady with a pen in her hand ?
LITTLE MARIE OF LEHON .
` Here comes our pretty little girl , ' I said to Kate , as we sat resting on the seat beside the footpath that leads from Dinan on the hill to Lehon in the valley .
Yes , there she was , trotting toward us in her round cap , blue woollen gown , white apron , and wooden shoes .
On her head was a loaf of buckwheat bread as big as a small wheel , in one hand a basket full of green stuff , while the other led an old goat , who seemed in no hurry to get home .
We had often seen this rosy , bright-eyed child , had nodded to her , but never spoken , for she looked rather shy , and always seemed in haste .
Now the sight of the goat reminded us of an excuse for addressing her , and as she was about to pass with the respectful little curtsey of the country , my friend said in French : -- ` Stay please .
I want to speak to you . '
She stopped at once and stood looking at us under her long eyelashes in a timid yet confiding way , very pretty to see .
` We want to drink goat 's milk every morning : can you let us have it , little one ? '
` Oh , yes , mademoiselle !
Nannette gives fine milk , and no one has yet engaged her , ' answered the child , her whole face brightening at the prospect .
` What name have you ? '
` Marie Rosier , mademoiselle . '
` And you live at Lehon ? '
` Yes , mademoiselle . '
` Have you parents ? '
` Truly , yes , of the best .
My father has a loom , my mother works in the field and mill with brother Yvon , and I go to school and care for Nannette and nurse little Bebe . '
` What school ? '
` At the convent , mademoiselle .
The good sisters teach us the catechism , also to write and read and sew .
I like it much , ' and Marie glanced at the little prayer in her apron pocket , as if proud to show she could read it .
` What age have you ? '
` Ten years , mademoiselle . '
` You are young to do so much , for we often see you in the market buying and selling , and sometimes digging in your garden there below , and bringing water from the river .
Do you love work as well as school ? '
` Ah , no ; but mademoiselle knows it is necessary to work : every one does , and I 'm glad to do my part .
Yvon works much harder than I , and the father sits all day at his loom , yet he is sick and suffers much .
Yes , I am truly glad to help , ' and little Marie settled the big loaf as if quite ready to bear her share of the burdens .
` Shall we go and see your father about the goat ?
and if he agrees will you bring the milk fresh and warm every morning ? '
I asked , thinking that a sight of that blooming face would brighten our days for us .
` Oh , yes !
I always do it for the ladies , and you will find the milk quite fresh and warm , hey , Nannette ? '
