I am condemned to do this , for neither I nor any of my kindred can die till I have rooted up this great tree , ' replied the king of the eagles .
` But it is now evening , and I need work no more to-day .
Come to my house with me , and be my guest for the night . '
The prince accepted gratefully the eagle 's invitation , for he was tired and hungry .
They were received at the palace by the king 's beautiful daughter , who gave orders that dinner should be laid for them at once .
While they were eating , the eagle questioned his guest about his travels , and if he was wandering for pleasure 's sake , or with any special aim .
Then the prince told him everything , and how he could never turn back till he had discovered the Land of Immortality .
` Dear brother , ' said the eagle , ` you have discovered it already , and it rejoices my heart to think that you will stay with us .
Have you not just heard me say that death has no power either over myself or any of my kindred till that great tree is rooted up ?
It will take me six hundred years ' hard work to do that ; so marry my daughter and let us all live happily together here .
After all , six hundred years is an eternity ! '
` Ah , dear king , ' replied the young man , ` your offer is very tempting !
But at the end of six hundred years we should have to die , so we should be no better off !
No , I must go on till I find the country where there is no death at all . '
Then the princess spoke , and tried to persuade the guest to change his mind , but he sorrowfully shook his head .
At length , seeing that his resolution was firmly fixed , she took from a cabinet a little box which contained her picture , and gave it to him saying : ` As you will not stay with us , prince , accept this box , which will sometimes recall us to your memory .
If you are tired of travelling before you come to the Land of Immortality , open this box and look at my picture , and you will be borne along either on earth or in the air , quick as thought , or swift as the whirlwind . '
The prince thanked her for her gift , which he placed in his tunic , and sorrowfully bade the eagle and his daughter farewell .
Never was any present in the world as useful as that little box , and many times did he bless the kind thought of the princess .
One evening it had carried him to the top of a high mountain , where he saw a man with a bald head , busily engaged in digging up spadefuls of earth and throwing them in a basket .
When the basket was full he took it away and returned with an empty one , which he likewise filled .
The prince stood and watched him for a little , till the bald-headed man looked up and said to him : ` Dear brother , what surprises you so much ? ' '
I was wondering why you were filling the basket , ' replied the prince .
` Oh ! '
replied the man , ' I am condemned to do this , for neither I nor any of my family can die till I have dug away the whole of this mountain and made it level with the plain .
But , come , it is almost dark , and I shall work no longer . '
And he plucked a leaf from a tree close by , and from a rough digger he was changed into a stately bald-headed king .
` Come home with me , ' he added ; ` you must be tired and hungry , and my daughter will have supper ready for us . '
The prince accepted gladly , and they went back to the palace , where the bald-headed king 's daughter , who was still more beautiful than the other princess , welcomed them at the door and led the way into a large hall and to a table covered with silver dishes .
While they were eating , the bald-headed king asked the prince how he had happened to wander so far , and the young man told him all about it , and how he was seeking the Land of Immortality .
` You have found it already , ' answered the king , ` for , as I said , neither I nor my family can die till I have levelled this great mountain ; and that will take full eight hundred years longer .
Stay here with us and marry my daughter .
Eight hundred years is surely long enough to live . '
` Oh , certainly , ' answered the prince ; ` but , all the same , I would rather go and seek the land where there is no death at all . '
So next morning he bade them farewell , though the princess begged him to stay with all her might ; and when she found that she could not persuade him she gave him as a remembrance a gold ring .
This ring was still more useful than the box , because when one wished oneself at any place one was there directly , without even the trouble of flying to it through the air .
The prince put it on his finger , and thanking her heartily , went his way .
He walked on for some distance , and then he recollected the ring and thought he would try if the princess had spoken truly as to its powers . '
I wish I was at the end of the world , ' he said , shutting his eyes , and when he opened them he was standing in a street full of marble palaces .
The men who passed him were tall and strong , and their clothes were magnificent .
He stopped some of them and asked in all the twenty-seven languages he knew what was the name of the city , but no one answered him .
Then his heart sank within him ; what should he do in this strange place if nobody could understand anything ?
he said .
Suddenly his eyes fell upon a man dressed after the fashion of his native country , and he ran up to him and spoke to him in his own tongue .
` What city is this , my friend ? '
he inquired .
` It is the capital city of the Blue Kingdom , ' replied the man , ` but the king himself is dead , and his daughter is now the ruler . '
With this news the prince was satisfied , and begged his countryman to show him the way to the young queen 's palace .
The man led him through several streets into a large square , one side of which was occupied by a splendid building that seemed borne up on slender pillars of soft green marble .
In front was a flight of steps , and on these the queen was sitting wrapped in a veil of shining silver mist , listening to the complaints of her people and dealing out justice .
When the prince came up she saw directly that he was no ordinary man , and telling her chamberlain to dismiss the rest of her petitioners for that day , she signed to the prince to follow her into the palace .
Luckily she had been taught his language as a child , so they had no difficulty in talking together .
The prince told all his story and how he was journeying in search of the Land of Immortality .
When he had finished , the princess , who had listened attentively , rose , and taking his arm , led him to the door of another room , the floor of which was made entirely of needles , stuck so close together that there was not room for a single needle more .
` Prince , ' she said , turning to him , ` you see these needles ?
Well , know that neither I nor any of my family can die till I have worn out these needles in sewing .
It will take at least a thousand years for that .
Stay here , and share my throne ; a thousand years is long enough to live ! '
` Certainly , ' answered he ; ` still , at the end of the thousand years I should have to die !
No , I must find the land where there is no death . '
The queen did all she could to persuade him to stay , but as her words proved useless , at length she gave it up .
Then she said to him : ` As you will not stay , take this little golden rod as a remembrance of me .
It has the power to become anything you wish it to be , when you are in need . '
So the prince thanked her , and putting the rod in his pocket , went his way .
Scarcely had he left the town behind him when he came to a broad river which no man might pass , for he was standing at the end of the world , and this was the river which flowed round it .
Not knowing what to do next , he walked a little distance up the bank , and there , over his head , a beautiful city was floating in the air .
He longed to get to it , but how ?
neither road nor bridge was anywhere to be seen , yet the city drew him upwards , and he felt that here at last was the country which he sought .
Suddenly he remembered the golden rod which the mist-veiled queen had given him .
With a beating heart he flung it to the ground , wishing with all his might that it should turn into a bridge , and fearing that , after all , this might prove beyond its power .
But no , instead of the rod , there stood a golden ladder , leading straight up to the city of the air .
He was about to enter the golden gates , when there sprang at him a wondrous beast , whose like he had never seen .
` Out sword from the sheath , ' cried the prince , springing back with a cry .
And the sword leapt from the scabbard and cut off some of the monster 's heads , but others grew again directly , so that the prince , pale with terror , stood where he was , calling for help , and put his sword back in the sheath again .
The queen of the city heard the noise and looked from her window to see what was happening .
Summoning one of her servants , she bade him go and rescue the stranger , and bring him to her .
The prince thankfully obeyed her orders , and entered her presence .
The moment she looked at him , the queen also felt that he was no ordinary man , and she welcomed him graciously , and asked him what had brought him to the city .
In answer the prince told all his story , and how he had travelled long and far in search of the Land of Immortality .
` You have found it , ' said she , ` for I am queen over life and over death .
Here you can dwell among the immortals . '
A thousand years had passed since the prince first entered the city , but they had flown so fast that the time seemed no more than six months .
There had not been one instant of the thousand years that the prince was not happy till one night when he dreamed of his father and mother .
Then the longing for his home came upon him with a rush , and in the morning he told the Queen of the Immortals that he must go and see his father and mother once more .
The queen stared at him with amazement , and cried : ` Why , prince , are you out of your senses ?
It is more than eight hundred years since your father and mother died !
There will not even be their dust remaining . ' '
I must go all the same , ' said he .
` Well , do not be in a hurry , ' continued the queen , understanding that he would not be prevented .
` Wait till I make some preparations for your journey . '
So she unlocked her great treasure chest , and took out two beautiful flasks , one of gold and one of silver , which she hung round his neck .
Then she showed him a little trap-door in one corner of the room , and said : ` Fill the silver flask with this water , which is below the trap-door .
It is enchanted , and whoever you sprinkle with the water will become a dead man at once , even if he had lived a thousand years .
The golden flask you must fill with the water here , ' she added , pointing to a well in another corner .
` It springs from the rock of eternity ; you have only to sprinkle a few drops on a body and it will come to life again , if it had been a thousand years dead . '
The prince thanked the queen for her gifts , and , bidding her farewell , went on his journey .
He soon arrived in the town where the mist-veiled queen reigned in her palace , but the whole city had changed , and he could scarcely find his way through the streets .
In the palace itself all was still , and he wandered through the rooms without meeting anyone to stop him .
At last he entered the queen 's own chamber , and there she lay , with her embroidery still in her hands , fast asleep .
He pulled at her dress , but she did not waken .
Then a dreadful idea came over him , and he ran to the chamber where the needles had been kept , but it was quite empty .
The queen had broken the last over the work she held in her hand , and with it the spell was broken too , and she lay dead .
Quick as thought the prince pulled out the golden flask , and sprinkled some drops of the water over the queen .
In a moment she moved gently , and raising her head , opened her eyes .
` Oh , my dear friend , I am so glad you wakened me ; I must have slept a long while ! '
` You would have slept till eternity , ' answered the prince , ` if I had not been here to waken you . '
At these words the queen remembered about the needles .
She knew now that she had been dead , and that the prince had restored her to life .
She gave him thanks from her heart for what he had done , and vowed she would repay him if she ever got a chance .
The prince took his leave , and set out for the country of the bald-headed king .
As he drew near the place he saw that the whole mountain had been dug away , and that the king was lying dead on the ground , his spade and bucket beside him .
But as soon as the water from the golden flask touched him he yawned and stretched himself , and slowly rose to his feet .
` Oh , my dear friend , I am so glad to see you , ' cried he , ' I must have slept a long while ! '
` You would have slept till eternity if I had not been here to waken you , ' answered the prince .
And the king remembered the mountain , and the spell , and vowed to repay the service if he ever had a chance .
Further along the road which led to his old home the prince found the great tree torn up by its roots , and the king of the eagles sitting dead on the ground , with his wings outspread as if for flight .
A flutter ran through the feathers as the drops of water fell on them , and the eagle lifted his beak from the ground and said : ` Oh , how long I must have slept !
How can I thank you for having awakened me , my dear , good friend ! '
` You would have slept till eternity if I had not been here to waken you ' ; answered the prince .
Then the king remembered about the tree , and knew that he had been dead , and promised , if ever he had the chance , to repay what the prince had done for him .
At last he reached the capital of his father 's kingdom , but on reaching the place where the royal palace had stood , instead of the marble galleries where he used to play , there lay a great sulphur lake , its blue flames darting into the air .
How was he to find his father and mother , and bring them back to life , if they were lying at the bottom of that horrible water ?
He turned away sadly and wandered back into the streets , hardly knowing where he was going ; when a voice behind him cried : ` Stop , prince , I have caught you at last !
It is a thousand years since I first began to seek you . '
And there beside him stood the old , white-bearded , figure of Death .
Swiftly he drew the ring from his finger , and the king of the eagles , the bald-headed king , and the mist-veiled queen , hastened to his rescue .
In an instant they had seized upon Death and held him tight , till the prince should have time to reach the Land of Immortality .
But they did not know how quickly Death could fly , and the prince had only one foot across the border , when he felt the other grasped from behind , and the voice of Death calling : ` Halt !
now you are mine . '
The Queen of the Immortals was watching from her window , and cried to Death that he had no power in her kingdom , and that he must seek his prey elsewhere .
` Quite true , ' answered Death ; ` but his foot is in my kingdom , and that belongs to me ! '
` At any rate half of him is mine , ' replied the Queen , ` and what good can the other half do you ?
Half a man is no use , either to you or to me !
But this once I will allow you to cross into my kingdom , and we will decide by a wager whose he is . '
And so it was settled .
Death stepped across the narrow line that surrounds the Land of Immortality , and the queen proposed the wager which was to decide the prince 's fate . '
I will throw him up into the sky , ' she said , ` right to the back of the morning star , and if he falls down into this city , then he is mine .
But if he should fall outside the walls , he shall belong to you . '
In the middle of the city was a great open square , and here the queen wished the wager to take place .
When all was ready , she put her foot under the foot of the prince and swung him into the air .
Up , up , he went , high amongst the stars , and no man 's eyes could follow him .
Had she thrown him up straight ?
the queen wondered anxiously , for , if not , he would fall outside the walls , and she would lose him for ever .
The moments seemed long while she and Death stood gazing up into the air , waiting to know whose prize the prince would be .
Suddenly they both caught sight of a tiny speck no bigger than a wasp , right up in the blue .
Was he coming straight ?
No !
Yes !
But as he was nearing the city , a light wind sprang up , and swayed him in the direction of the wall .
Another second and he would have fallen half over it , when the queen sprang forward , seized him in her arms , and flung him into the castle .
Then she commanded her servants to cast Death out of the city , which they did , with such hard blows that he never dared to show his face again in the Land of Immortality .
-LSB- From Ungarischen Volksmurchen . -RSB-
The Stone-Cutter Once upon a time there lived a stone-cutter , who went every day to a great rock in the side of a big mountain and cut out slabs for gravestones or for houses .
He understood very well the kinds of stones wanted for the different purposes , and as he was a careful workman he had plenty of customers .
For a long time he was quite happy and contented , and asked for nothing better than what he had .
Now in the mountain dwelt a spirit which now and then appeared to men , and helped them in many ways to become rich and prosperous .
The stone-cutter , however , had never seen this spirit , and only shook his head , with an unbelieving air , when anyone spoke of it .
But a time was coming when he learned to change his opinion .
One day the stone-cutter carried a gravestone to the house of a rich man , and saw there all sorts of beautiful things , of which he had never even dreamed .
Suddenly his daily work seemed to grow harder and heavier , and he said to himself : ` Oh , if only I were a rich man , and could sleep in a bed with silken curtains and golden tassels , how happy I should be ! '
And a voice answered him : ` Your wish is heard ; a rich man you shall be ! '
At the sound of the voice the stone-cutter looked round , but could see nobody .
He thought it was all his fancy , and picked up his tools and went home , for he did not feel inclined to do any more work that day .
But when he reached the little house where he lived , he stood still with amazement , for instead of his wooden hut was a stately palace filled with splendid furniture , and most splendid of all was the bed , in every respect like the one he had envied .
He was nearly beside himself with joy , and in his new life the old one was soon forgotten .
It was now the beginning of summer , and each day the sun blazed more fiercely .
One morning the heat was so great that the stone-cutter could scarcely breathe , and he determined he would stay at home till the evening .
He was rather dull , for he had never learned how to amuse himself , and was peeping through the closed blinds to see what was going on in the street , when a little carriage passed by , drawn by servants dressed in blue and silver .
In the carriage sat a prince , and over his head a golden umbrella was held , to protect him from the sun 's rays .
` Oh , if I were only a prince ! '
said the stone-cutter to himself , as the carriage vanished round the corner .
` Oh , if I were only a prince , and could go in such a carriage and have a golden umbrella held over me , how happy I should be ! '
And the voice of the mountain spirit answered : ` Your wish is heard ; a prince you shall be . '
And a prince he was .
Before his carriage rode one company of men and another behind it ; servants dressed in scarlet and gold bore him along , the coveted umbrella was held over his head , everything heart could desire was his .
But yet it was not enough .
He looked round still for something to wish for , and when he saw that in spite of the water he poured on his grass the rays of the sun scorched it , and that in spite of the umbrella held over his head each day his face grew browner and browner , he cried in his anger : ` The sun is mightier than I ; oh , if I were only the sun ! '
And the mountain spirit answered : ` Your wish is heard ; the sun you shall be . '
And the sun he was , and felt himself proud in his power .
He shot his beams above and below , on earth and in heaven ; he burnt up the grass in the fields and scorched the faces of princes as well as of poorer folk .
But in a short time he began to grow tired of his might , for there seemed nothing left for him to do .
Discontent once more filled his soul , and when a cloud covered his face , and hid the earth from him , he cried in his anger : ` Does the cloud hold captive my rays , and is it mightier than I ?
Oh , that I were a cloud , and mightier than any ! '
And the mountain spirit answered : ` Your wish is heard ; a cloud you shall be ! '
And a cloud he was , and lay between the sun and the earth .
He caught the sun 's beams and held them , and to his joy the earth grew green again and flowers blossomed .
But that was not enough for him , and for days and weeks he poured forth rain till the rivers overflowed their banks , and the crops of rice stood in water .
Towns and villages were destroyed by the power of the rain , only the great rock on the mountain side remained unmoved .
The cloud was amazed at the sight , and cried in wonder : ` Is the rock , then , mightier than I ?
Oh , if I were only the rock ! '
And the mountain spirit answered : ` Your wish is heard ; the rock you shall be !
And the rock he was , and gloried in his power .
Proudly he stood , and neither the heat of the sun nor the force of the rain could move him .
` This is better than all ! '
he said to himself .
But one day he heard a strange noise at his feet , and when he looked down to see what it could be , he saw a stone-cutter driving tools into his surface .
Even while he looked a trembling feeling ran all through him , and a great block broke off and fell upon the ground .
Then he cried in his wrath : ` Is a mere child of earth mightier than a rock ?
Oh , if I were only a man ! '
And the mountain spirit answered : ` Your wish is heard .
A man once more you shall be ! '
And a man he was , and in the sweat of his brow he toiled again at his trade of stone-cutting .
His bed was hard and his food scanty , but he had learned to be satisfied with it , and did not long to be something or somebody else .
And as he never asked for things he had not got , or desired to be greater and mightier than other people , he was happy at last , and heard the voice of the mountain spirit no longer .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Gold-Bearded Man Once upon a time there lived a great king who had a wife and one son whom he loved very much .
The boy was still young when , one day , the king said to his wife : ' I feel that the hour of my death draws near , and I want you to promise that you will never take another husband but will give up your life to the care of our son . '
The queen burst into tears at these words , and sobbed out that she would never , never marry again , and that her son 's welfare should be her first thought as long as she lived .
Her promise comforted the troubled heart of the king , and a few days after he died , at peace with himself and with the world .
But no sooner was the breath out of his body , than the queen said to herself , ` To promise is one thing , and to keep is quite another . '
And hardly was the last spadeful of earth flung over the coffin than she married a noble from a neighbouring country , and got him made king instead of the young prince .
Her new husband was a cruel , wicked man , who treated his stepson very badly , and gave him scarcely anything to eat , and only rags to wear ; and he would certainly have killed the boy but for fear of the people .
Now by the palace grounds there ran a brook , but instead of being a water-brook it was a milk-brook , and both rich and poor flocked to it daily and drew as much milk as they chose .
The first thing the new king did when he was seated on the throne , was to forbid anyone to go near the brook , on pain of being seized by the watchmen .
And this was purely spite , for there was plenty of milk for everybody .
For some days no one dared venture near the banks of the stream , but at length some of the watchmen noticed that early in the mornings , just at dawn , a man with a gold beard came down to the brook with a pail , which he filled up to the brim with milk , and then vanished like smoke before they could get near enough to see who he was .
So they went and told the king what they had seen .
At first the king would not believe their story , but as they persisted it was quite true , he said that he would go and watch the stream that night himself .
With the earliest streaks of dawn the gold-bearded man appeared , and filled his pail as before .
Then in an instant he had vanished , as if the earth had swallowed him up .
The king stood staring with eyes and mouth open at the place where the man had disappeared .
He had never seen him before , that was certain ; but what mattered much more was how to catch him , and what should be done with him when he was caught ?
He would have a cage built as a prison for him , and everyone would talk of it , for in other countries thieves were put in prison , and it was long indeed since any king had used a cage .
It was all very well to plan , and even to station a watchman behind every bush , but it was of no use , for the man was never caught .
They would creep up to him softly on the grass , as he was stooping to fill his pail , and just as they stretched out their hands to seize him , he vanished before their eyes .
Time after time this happened , till the king grew mad with rage , and offered a large reward to anyone who could tell him how to capture his enemy .
The first person that came with a scheme was an old soldier who promised the king that if he would only put some bread and bacon and a flask of wine on the bank of the stream , the gold-bearded man would be sure to eat and drink , and they could shake some powder into the wine , which would send him to sleep at once .
After that there was nothing to do but to shut him in the cage .
This idea pleased the king , and he ordered bread and bacon and a flask of drugged wine to be placed on the bank of the stream , and the watchers to be redoubled .
Then , full of hope , he awaited the result .
Everything turned out just as the soldier had said .
Early next morning the gold-bearded man came down to the brook , ate , drank , and fell sound asleep , so that the watchers easily bound him , and carried him off to the palace .
In a moment the king had him fast in the golden cage , and showed him , with ferocious joy , to the strangers who were visiting his court .
The poor captive , when he awoke from his drunken sleep , tried to talk to them , but no one would listen to him , so he shut himself up altogether , and the people who came to stare took him for a dumb man of the woods .
He wept and moaned to himself all day , and would hardly touch food , though , in dread that he should die and escape his tormentors , the king ordered his head cook to send him dishes from the royal table .
The gold-bearded man had been in captivity about a month , when the king was forced to make war upon a neighbouring country , and left the palace , to take command of his army .
But before he went he called his stepson to him and said : ` Listen , boy , to what I tell you .
While I am away I trust the care of my prisoner to you .
See that he has plenty to eat and drink , but be careful that he does not escape , or even walk about the room .
If I return and find him gone , you will pay for it by a terrible death . '
The young prince was thankful that his stepfather was going to the war , and secretly hoped he might never come back .
Directly he had ridden off the boy went to the room where the cage was kept , and never left it night and day .
He even played his games beside it .
One day he was shooting at a mark with a silver bow ; one of his arrows fell into the golden cage .
` Please give me my arrow , ' said the prince , running up to him ; but the gold-bearded man answered : ` No , I shall not give it to you unless you let me out of my cage . ' '
I may not let you out , ' replied the boy , ` for if I do my stepfather says that I shall have to die a horrible death when he returns from the war .
My arrow can be of no use to you , so give it to me . '
The man handed the arrow through the bars , but when he had done so he begged harder than ever that the prince would open the door and set him free .
Indeed , he prayed so earnestly that the prince 's heart was touched , for he was a tender-hearted boy who pitied the sorrows of other people .
So he shot back the bolt , and the gold-bearded man stepped out into the world . '
I will repay you a thousand fold for that good deed . '
said the man , and then he vanished .
The prince began to think what he should say to the king when he came back ; then he wondered whether it would be wise to wait for his stepfather 's return and run the risk of the dreadful death which had been promised him .
` No , ' he said to himself , ' I am afraid to stay .
Perhaps the world will be kinder to me than he has been . '
Unseen he stole out when twilight fell , and for many days he wandered over mountains and through forests and valleys without knowing where he was going or what he should do .
He had only the berries for food , when , one morning , he saw a wood-pigeon sitting on a bough .
In an instant he had fitted an arrow to his bow , and was taking aim at the bird , thinking what a good meal he would make off him , when his weapon fell to the ground at the sound of the pigeon 's voice : ` Do not shoot , I implore you , noble prince !
I have two little sons at home , and they will die of hunger if I am not there to bring them food . '
And the young prince had pity , and unstrung his bow .
` Oh , prince , I will repay your deed of mercy , said the grateful wood-pigeon .
` Poor thing !
how can you repay me ? '
asked the prince .
` You have forgotten , ' answered the wood-pigeon , ` the proverb that runs , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laughed at this speech and went his way .
By-and-by he reached the edge of a lake , and flying towards some rushes which grew near the shore he beheld a wild duck .
Now , in the days that the king , his father , was alive , and he had everything to eat he could possibly wish for , the prince always had wild duck for his birthday dinner , so he quickly fitted an arrow to his bow and took a careful aim .
` Do not shoot , I pray you , noble prince ! '
cried the wild duck ; ' I have two little sons at home ; they will die of hunger if I am not there to bring them food . '
And the prince had pity , and let fall his arrow and unstrung his bow .
` Oh , prince !
I will repay your deed of mercy , ' exclaimed the grateful wild duck .
` You poor thing !
how can you repay me ? '
asked the prince .
` You have forgotten , ' answered the wild duck , ` the proverb that runs , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laughed at this speech and went his way .
He had not wandered far from the shores of the lake , when he noticed a stork standing on one leg , and again he raised his bow and prepared to take aim .
` Do not shoot , I pray you , noble prince , ' cried the stork ; ' I have two little sons at home ; they will die of hunger if I am not there to bring them food . '
Again the prince was filled with pity , and this time also he did not shoot .
` Oh , prince , I will repay your deed of mercy , ' cried the stork .
` You poor stork !
how can you repay me ? '
asked the prince .
` You have forgotten , ' answered the stork , ` the proverb that runs , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laughed at hearing these words again , and walked slowly on .
He had not gone far , when he fell in with two discharged soldiers .
` Where are you going , little brother ? '
asked one . '
I am seeking work , ' answered the prince .
` So are we , ' replied the soldier .
` We can all go together . '
The boy was glad of company and they went on , and on , and on , through seven kingdoms , without finding anything they were able to do .
At length they reached a palace , and there was the king standing on the steps .
` You seem to be looking for something , ' said he .
` It is work we want , ' they all answered .
So the king told the soldiers that they might become his coachmen ; but he made the boy his companion , and gave him rooms near his own .
The soldiers were dreadfully angry when they heard this , for of course they did not know that the boy was really a prince ; and they soon began to lay their heads together to plot his ruin .
Then they went to the king .
` Your Majesty , ' they said , ` we think it our duty to tell you that your new companion has boasted to us that if he were only your steward he would not lose a single grain of corn out of the storehouses .
Now , if your Majesty would give orders that a sack of wheat should be mixed with one of barley , and would send for the youth , and command him to separate the grains one from another , in two hours ' time , you would soon see what his talk was worth . '
The king , who was weak , listened to what these wicked men had told him , and desired the prince to have the contents of the sack piled into two heaps by the time that he returned from his council .
` If you succeed , ' he added , ` you shall be my steward , but if you fail , I will put you to death on the spot . '
The unfortunate prince declared that he had never made any such boast as was reported ; but it was all in vain .
The king did not believe him , and turning him into an empty room , bade his servants carry in the huge sack filled with wheat and barley , and scatter them in a heap on the floor .
The prince hardly knew where to begin , and indeed if he had had a thousand people to help him , and a week to do it in , he could never have finished his task .
So he flung himself on the ground in despair , and covered his face with his hands .
While he lay thus , a wood-pigeon flew in through the window .
` Why are you weeping , noble prince ? '
asked the wood-pigeon .
` How can I help weeping at the task set me by the king .
For he says , if I fail to do it , I shall die a horrible death . '
` Oh , there is really nothing to cry about , ' answered the wood-pigeon soothingly . '
I am the king of the wood-pigeons , whose life you spared when you were hungry .
And now I will repay my debt , as I promised . '
So saying he flew out of the window , leaving the prince with some hope in his heart .
In a few minutes he returned , followed by a cloud of wood-pigeons , so dense that it seemed to fill the room .
Their king showed them what they had to do , and they set to work so hard that the grain was sorted into two heaps long before the council was over .
When the king came back he could not believe his eyes ; but search as he might through the two heaps , he could not find any barley among the wheat , or any wheat amongst the barley .
So he praised the prince for his industry and cleverness , and made him his steward at once .
This made the two soldiers more envious still , and they began to hatch another plot .
` Your Majesty , ' they said to the king , one day , as he was standing on the steps of the palace , ` that fellow has been boasting again , that if he had the care of your treasures not so much as a gold pin should ever be lost .
Put this vain fellow to the proof , we pray you , and throw the ring from the princess 's finger into the brook , and bid him find it .
We shall soon see what his talk is worth . '
And the foolish king listened to them , and ordered the prince to be brought before him .
` My son , ' he said , ' I have heard that you have declared that if I made you keeper of my treasures you would never lose so much as a gold pin .
Now , in order to prove the truth of your words , I am going to throw the ring from the princess 's finger into the brook , and if you do not find it before I come back from council , you will have to die a horrible death . '
It was no use denying that he had said anything of the kind .
The king did not believe him ; in fact he paid no attention at all , and hurried off , leaving the poor boy speechless with despair in the corner .
However , he soon remembered that though it was very unlikely that he should find the ring in the brook , it was impossible that he should find it by staying in the palace .
For some time the prince wandered up and down peering into the bottom of the stream , but though the water was very clear , nothing could he see of the ring .
At length he gave it up in despair , and throwing himself down at the foot of the tree , he wept bitterly .
` What is the matter , dear prince ? '
said a voice just above him , and raising his head , he saw the wild duck .
` The king of this country declares I must die a horrible death if I can not find the princess 's ring which he has thrown into the brook , ' answered the prince .
` Oh , you must not vex yourself about that , for I can help you , ' replied the bird . '
I am the king of the wild ducks , whose life you spared , and now it is my turn to save yours . '
Then he flew away , and in a few minutes a great flock of wild ducks were swimming all up and down the stream looking with all their might , and long before the king came back from his council there it was , safe on the grass beside the prince .
At this sight the king was yet more astonished at the cleverness of his steward , and at once promoted him to be the keeper of his jewels .
Now you would have thought that by this time the king would have been satisfied with the prince , and would have left him alone ; but people 's natures are very hard to change , and when the two envious soldiers came to him with a new falsehood , he was as ready to listen to them as before .
` Gracious Majesty , ' said they , ` the youth whom you have made keeper of your jewels has declared to us that a child shall be born in the palace this night , which will be able to speak every language in the world and to play every instrument of music .
Is he then become a prophet , or a magician , that he should know things which have not yet come to pass ? '
At these words the king became more angry than ever .
He had tried to learn magic himself , but somehow or other his spells would never work , and he was furious to hear that the prince claimed a power that he did not possess .
Stammering with rage , he ordered the youth to be brought before him , and vowed that unless this miracle was accomplished he would have the prince dragged at a horse 's tail until he was dead .
In spite of what the soldiers had said , the boy knew no more magic than the king did , and his task seemed more hopeless than before .
He lay weeping in the chamber which he was forbidden to leave , when suddenly he heard a sharp tapping at the window , and , looking up , he beheld a stork .
` What makes you so sad , prince ? '
asked he .
` Someone has told the king that I have prophesied that a child shall be born this night in the palace , who can speak all the languages in the world and play every musical instrument .
I am no magician to bring these things to pass , but he says that if it does not happen he will have me dragged through the city at a horse 's tail till I die . '
` Do not trouble yourself , ' answered the stork . '
I will manage to find such a child , for I am the king of the storks whose life you spared , and now I can repay you for it . '
The stork flew away and soon returned carrying in his beak a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes , and laid it down near a lute .
In an instant the baby stretched out its little hands and began to play a tune so beautiful that even the prince forgot his sorrows as he listened .
Then he was given a flute and a zither , but he was just as well able to draw music from them ; and the prince , whose courage was gradually rising , spoke to him in all the languages he knew .
The baby answered him in all , and no one could have told which was his native tongue !
The next morning the king went straight to the prince 's room , and saw with his own eyes the wonders that baby could do .
` If your magic can produce such a baby , ' he said , ` you must be greater than any wizard that ever lived , and shall have my daughter in marriage . '
And , being a king , and therefore accustomed to have everything the moment he wanted it , he commanded the ceremony to be performed without delay , and a splendid feast to be made for the bride and bridegroom .
When it was over , he said to the prince : ` Now that you are really my son , tell me by what arts you were able to fulfil the tasks I set you ? '
` My noble father-in-law , ' answered the prince , ' I am ignorant of all spells and arts .
But somehow I have always managed to escape the death which has threatened me . '
And he told the king how he had been forced to run away from his stepfather , and how he had spared the three birds , and had joined the two soldiers , who had from envy done their utmost to ruin him .
The king was rejoiced in his heart that his daughter had married a prince , and not a common man , and he chased the two soldiers away with whips , and told them that if they ever dared to show their faces across the borders of his kingdom , they should die the same death he had prepared for the prince .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen -RSB- Tritill , Litill , And The Birds Once upon a time there lived a princess who was so beautiful and so good that everybody loved her .
Her father could hardly bear her out of his sight , and he almost died of grief when , one day , she disappeared , and though the whole kingdom was searched through and through , she could not be found in any corner of it .
In despair , the king ordered a proclamation to be made that whoever could bring her back to the palace should have her for his wife .
This made the young men start afresh on the search , but they were no more successful than before , and returned sorrowfully to their homes .
Now there dwelt , not far from the palace , an old man who had three sons .
The two eldest were allowed by their parents to do just as they liked , but the youngest was always obliged to give way to his brothers .
When they were all grown up , the eldest told his father that he was tired of leading such a quiet life , and that he meant to go away and see the world .
The old people were very unhappy at the thought that they must part with him , but they said nothing , and began to collect all that he would want for his travels , and were careful to add a pair of new boots .
When everything was ready , he bade them farewell , and started merrily on his way .
For some miles his road lay through a wood , and when he left it he suddenly came out on a bare hillside .
Here he sat down to rest , and pulling out his wallet prepared to eat his dinner .
He had only eaten a few mouthfuls when an old man badly dressed passed by , and seeing the food , asked if the young man could not spare him a little .
` Not I , indeed ! '
answered he ; ` why I have scarcely enough for myself .
If you want food you must earn it . '
And the beggar went on .
After the young man had finished his dinner he rose and walked on for several hours , till he reached a second hill , where he threw himself down on the grass , and took some bread and milk from his wallet .
While he was eating and drinking , there came by an old man , yet more wretched than the first , and begged for a few mouthfuls .
But instead of food he only got hard words , and limped sadly away .
Towards evening the young man reached an open space in the wood , and by this time he thought he would like some supper .
The birds saw the food , and flew round his head in numbers hoping for some crumbs , but he threw stones at them , and frightened them off .
Then he began to wonder where he should sleep .
Not in the open space he was in , for that was bare and cold , and though he had walked a long way that day , and was tired , he dragged himself up , and went on seeking for a shelter .
At length he saw a deep sort of hole or cave under a great rock , and as it seemed quite empty , he went in , and lay down in a corner .
About midnight he was awakened by a noise , and peeping out he beheld a terrible ogress approaching .
He implored her not to hurt him , but to let him stay there for the rest of the night , to which she consented , on condition that he should spend the next day in doing any task which she might choose to set him .
To this the young man willingly agreed , and turned over and went to sleep again .
In the morning , the ogress bade him sweep the dust out of the cave , and to have it clean before her return in the evening , otherwise it would be the worse for him .
Then she left the cave .
The young man took the spade , and began to clean the floor of the cave , but try as he would to move it the dirt still stuck to its place .
He soon gave up the task , and sat sulkily in the corner , wondering what punishment the ogress would find for him , and why she had set him to do such an impossible thing .
He had not long to wait , after the ogress came home , before he knew what his punishment was to be !
She just gave one look at the floor of the cave , then dealt him a blow on the head which cracked his skull , and there was an end of him .
Meanwhile his next brother grew tired of staying at home , and let his parents have no rest till they had consented that he also should be given some food and some new boots , and go out to see the world .
On his road , he also met the two old beggars , who prayed for a little of his bread and milk , but this young man had never been taught to help other people , and had made it a rule through his life to keep all he had to himself .
So he turned a deaf ear and finished his dinner .
By-and-by he , too , came to the cave , and was bidden by the ogress to clean the floor , but he was no more successful than his brother , and his fate was the same .
Anyone would have thought that when the old people had only one son left that at least they would have been kind to him , even if they did not love him .
But for some reason they could hardly bear the sight of him , though he tried much harder to make them comfortable than his brothers had ever done .
So when he asked their leave to go out into the world they gave it at once , and seemed quite glad to be rid of him .
They felt it was quite generous of them to provide him with a pair of new boots and some bread and milk for his journey .
Besides the pleasure of seeing the world , the youth was very anxious to discover what had become of his brothers , and he determined to trace , as far as he could , the way that they must have gone .
He followed the road that led from his father 's cottage to the hill , where he sat down to rest , saying to himself : ' I am sure my brothers must have stopped here , and I will do the same . '
He was hungry as well as tired , and took out some of the food his parents had given him .
He was just going to begin to eat when the old man appeared , and asked if he could not spare him a little .
The young man at once broke off some of the bread , begging the old man to sit down beside him , and treating him as if he was an old friend .
At last the stranger rose , and said to him : ` If ever you are in trouble call me , and I will help you .
My name is Tritill . '
Then he vanished , and the young man could not tell where he had gone .
However , he felt he had now rested long enough , and that he had better be going his way .
At the next hill he met with the second old man , and to him also he gave food and drink .
And when this old man had finished he said , like the first : ` If you ever want help in the smallest thing call to me .
My name is Litill . '
The young man walked on till he reached the open space in the wood , where he stopped for dinner .
In a moment all the birds in the world seemed flying round his head , and he crumbled some of his bread for them and watched them as they darted down to pick it up .
When they had cleared off every crumb the largest bird with the gayest plumage said to him : ` If you are in trouble and need help say , `` My birds , come to me ! ''
and we will come . '
Then they flew away .
Towards evening the young man reached the cave where his brothers had met their deaths , and , like them , he thought it would be a good place to sleep in .
Looking round , he saw some pieces of the dead men 's clothes and of their bones .
The sight made him shiver , but he would not move away , and resolved to await the return of the ogress , for such he knew she must be .
Very soon she came striding in , and he asked politely if she would give him a night 's lodging .
She answered as before , that he might stay on condition that he should do any work that she might set him to next morning .
So the bargain being concluded , the young man curled himself up in his corner and went to sleep .
The dirt lay thicker than ever on the floor of the cave when the young man took the spade and began his work .
He could not clear it any more than his brothers had done , and at last the spade itself stuck in the earth so that he could not pull it out .
The youth stared at it in despair , then the old beggar 's words flashed into his mind , and he cried : ` Tritill , Tritill , come and help me ! '
And Tritill stood beside him and asked what he wanted .
The youth told him all his story , and when he had finished , the old man said : ` Spade and shovel do your duty , ' and they danced about the cave till , in a short time , there was not a speck of dust left on the floor .
As soon as it was quite clean Tritill went his way .
With a light heart the young man awaited the return of the ogress .
When she came in she looked carefully round , and then said to him : ` You did not do that quite alone .
However , as the floor is clean I will leave your head on . '
The following morning the ogress told the young man that he must take all the feathers out of her pillows and spread them to dry in the sun .
But if one feather was missing when she came back at night his head should pay for it . '
The young man fetched the pillows , and shook out all the feathers , and oh !
what quantities of them there were !
He was thinking to himself , as he spread them out carefully , how lucky it was that the sun was so bright and that there was no wind , when suddenly a breeze sprang up , and in a moment the feathers were dancing high in the air .
At first the youth tried to collect them again , but he soon found that it was no use , and he cried in despair : ` Tritill , Litill , and all my birds , come and help me ! '
He had hardly said the words when there they all were ; and when the birds had brought all the feathers back again , Tritill , and Litill , and he , put them away in the pillows , as the ogress had bidden him .
But one little feather they kept out , and told the young man that if the ogress missed it he was to thrust it up her nose .
Then they all vanished , Tritill , Litill , and the birds .
Directly the ogress returned home she flung herself with all her weight on the bed , and the whole cave quivered under her .
The pillows were soft and full instead of being empty , which surprised her , but that did not content her .
She got up , shook out the pillow-cases one by one , and began to count the feathers that were in each .
` If one is missing I will have your head , ' said she , and at that the young man drew the feather from his pocket and thrust it up her nose , crying ` If you want your feather , here it is . '
` You did not sort those feathers alone , ' answered the ogress calmly ; ` however , this time I will let that pass . '
That night the young man slept soundly in his corner , and in the morning the ogress told him that his work that day would be to slay one of her great oxen , to cook its heart , and to make drinking cups of its horns , before she returned home ` There are fifty oxen , ' added she , ` and you must guess which of the herd I want killed .
If you guess right , to-morrow you shall be free to go where you will , and you shall choose besides three things as a reward for your service .
But if you slay the wrong ox your head shall pay for it . '
Left alone , the young man stood thinking for a little .
Then he called : ` Tritill , Litill , come to my help ! '
In a moment he saw them , far away , driving the biggest ox the youth had ever seen .
When they drew near , Tritill killed it , Litill took out its heart for the young man to cook , and both began quickly to turn the horns into drinking cups .
The work went merrily on , and they talked gaily , and the young man told his friends of the payment promised him by the ogress if he had done her bidding .
The old men warned him that he must ask her for the chest which stood at the foot of her bed , for whatever lay on the top of the bed , and for what lay under the side of the cave .
The young man thanked them for their counsel , and Tritill and Litill then took leave of him , saying that for the present he would need them no more .
Scarcely had they disappeared when the ogress came back , and found everything ready just as she had ordered .
Before she sat down to eat the bullock 's heart she turned to the young man , and said : ` You did not do that all alone , my friend ; but , nevertheless , I will keep my word , and to-morrow you shall go your way . '
So they went to bed and slept till dawn .
When the sun rose the ogress awoke the young man , and called to him to choose any three things out of her house . '
I choose , ' answered he , ` the chest which stands at the foot of your bed ; whatever lies on the top of the bed , and whatever is under the side of the cave . '
` You did not choose those things by yourself , my friend , ' said the ogress ; ` but what I have promised , that will I do . '
And then she gave him his reward .
` The thing which lay on the top of the bed ' turned out to be the lost princess .
` The chest which stood at the foot of the bed ' proved full of gold and precious stones ; and ` what was under the side of the cave ' he found to be a great ship , with oars and sails that went of itself as well on land as in the water .
` You are the luckiest man that ever was born , ' said the ogress as she went out of the cave as usual .
With much difficulty the youth put the heavy chest on his shoulders and carried it on board the ship , the princess walking by his side .
Then he took the helm and steered the vessel back to her father 's kingdom .
The king 's joy at receiving back his lost daughter was so great that he almost fainted , but when he recovered himself he made the young man tell him how everything had really happened .
` You have found her , and you shall marry her , ' said the king ; and so it was done .
And this is the end of the story .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Three Robes Long , long ago , a king and queen reigned over a large and powerful country .
What their names were nobody knows , but their son was called Sigurd , and their daughter Lineik , and these young people were famed throughout the whole kingdom for their wisdom and beauty .
There was only a year between them , and they loved each other so much that they could do nothing apart .
When they began to grow up the king gave them a house of their own to live in , with servants and carriages , and everything they could possibly want .
For many years they all lived happily together , and then the queen fell ill , and knew that she would never get better .
` Promise me two things , ' she said one day to the king ; ` one , that if you marry again , as indeed you must , you will not choose as your wife a woman from some small state or distant island , who knows nothing of the world , and will be taken up with thoughts of her grandeur .
But rather seek out a princess of some great kingdom , who has been used to courts all her life , and holds them at their true worth .
The other thing I have to ask is , that you will never cease to watch over our children , who will soon become your greatest joy . '
These were the queen 's last words , and a few hours later she was dead .
The king was so bowed down with sorrow that he would not attend even to the business of the kingdom , and at last his Prime Minister had to tell him that the people were complaining that they had nobody to right their wrongs .
` You must rouse yourself , sir , ' went on the minister , ` and put aside your own sorrows for the sake of your country . '
` You do not spare me , ' answered the king ; ` but what you say is just , and your counsel is good .
I have heard that men say , likewise , that it will be for the good of my kingdom for me to marry again , though my heart will never cease to be with my lost wife .
But it was her wish also ; therefore , to you I entrust the duty of finding a lady fitted to share my throne ; only , see that she comes neither from a small town nor a remote island . '
So an embassy was prepared , with the minister at its head , to visit the greatest courts in the world , and to choose out a suitable princess .
But the vessel which carried them had not been gone many days when a thick fog came on , and the captain could see neither to the right nor to the left .
For a whole month the ship drifted about in darkness , till at length the fog lifted and they beheld a cliff jutting out just in front .
On one side of the cliff lay a sheltered bay , in which the vessel was soon anchored , and though they did not know where they were , at any rate they felt sure of fresh fruit and water .
The minister left the rest of his followers on board the ship , and taking a small boat rowed himself to land , in order to look about him and to find out if the island was really as deserted as it seemed .
He had not gone far , when he heard the sound of music , and , turning in its direction , he saw a woman of marvellous beauty sitting on a low stool playing on a harp , while a girl beside her sang .
The minister stopped and greeted the lady politely , and she replied with friendliness , asking him why he had come to such an out-of-the way place .
In answer he told her of the object of his journey . '
I am in the same state as your master , ' replied the lady ; ' I was married to a mighty king who ruled over this land , till Vikings -LSB- sea-robbers -RSB- came and slew him and put all the people to death .
But I managed to escape , and hid myself here with my daughter . '
And the daughter listened , and said softly to her mother : ` Are you speaking the truth now ? '
` Remember your promise , ' answered the mother angrily , giving her a pinch which was unseen by the minister .
` What is your name , madam ? '
asked he , much touched by this sad story .
` Blauvor , ' she replied ` and my daughter is called Laufer ' ; and then she inquired the name of the minister , and of the king his master .
After this they talked of many things , and the lady showed herself learned in all that a woman should know , and even in much that men only were commonly taught .
` What a wife she would make for the king , ' thought the minister to himself , and before long he had begged the honour of her hand for his master .
She declared at first that she was too unworthy to accept the position offered her , and that the minister would soon repent his choice ; but this only made him the more eager , and in the end he gained her consent , and prevailed on her to return with him at once to his own country .
The minister then conducted the mother and daughter back to the ship ; the anchor was raised , the sails spread , and a fair wind was behind them .
Now that the fog had lifted they could see as they looked back that , except just along the shore , the island was bare and deserted and not fit for men to live in ; but about that nobody cared .
They had a quick voyage , and in six days they reached the land , and at once set out for the capital , a messenger being sent on first by the minister to inform the king of what had happened .
When his Majesty 's eyes fell on the two beautiful women , clad in dresses of gold and silver , he forgot his sorrows and ordered preparations for the wedding to be made without delay .
In his joy he never remembered to inquire in what kind of country the future queen had been found .
In fact his head was so turned by the beauty of the two ladies that when the invitations were sent by his orders to all the great people in the kingdom , he did not even recollect his two children , who remained shut up in their own house !
After the marriage the king ceased to have any will of his own and did nothing without consulting his wife .
She was present at all his councils , and her opinion was asked before making peace or war .
But when a few months had passed the king began to have doubts as to whether the minister 's choice had really been a wise one , and he noticed that his children lived more and more in their palace and never came near their stepmother .
It always happens that if a person 's eyes are once opened they see a great deal more than they ever expected ; and soon it struck the king that the members of his court had a way of disappearing one after the other without any reason .
At first he had not paid much attention to the fact , but merely appointed some fresh person to the vacant place .
As , however , man after man vanished without leaving any trace , he began to grow uncomfortable and to wonder if the queen could have anything to do with it .
Things were in this state when , one day , his wife said to him that it was time for him to make a progress through his kingdom and see that his governors were not cheating him of the money that was his due .
` And you need not be anxious about going , ' she added , ` for I will rule the country while you are away as carefully as you could yourself . '
The king had no great desire to undertake this journey , but the queen 's will was stronger than his , and he was too lazy to make a fight for it .
So he said nothing and set about his preparations , ordering his finest ship to be ready to carry him round the coast .
Still his heart was heavy , and he felt uneasy , though he could not have told why ; and the night before he was to start he went to the children 's palace to take leave of his son and daughter .
He had not seen them for some time , and they gave him a warm welcome , for they loved him dearly and he had always been kind to them .
They had much to tell him , but after a while he checked their merry talk and said : ` If I should never come back from this journey I fear that it may not be safe for you to stay here ; so directly there are no more hopes of my return go instantly and take the road eastwards till you reach a high mountain , which you must cross .
Once over the mountain keep along by the side of a little bay till you come to two trees , one green and the other red , standing in a thicket , and so far back from the road that without looking for them you would never see them .
Hide each in the trunk of one of the trees and there you will be safe from all your enemies . '
With these words the king bade them farewell and entered sadly into his ship .
For a few days the wind was fair , and everything seemed going smoothly ; then , suddenly , a gale sprang up , and a fearful storm of thunder and lightning , such as had never happened within the memory of man .
In spite of the efforts of the frightened sailors the vessel was driven on the rocks , and not a man on board was saved .
That very night Prince Sigurd had a dream , in which he thought his father appeared to him in dripping clothes , and , taking the crown from his head , laid it at his son 's feet , leaving the room as silently as he had entered it .
Hastily the prince awoke his sister Lineik , and they agreed that their father must be dead , and that they must lose no time in obeying his orders and putting themselves in safety .
So they collected their jewels and a few clothes and left the house without being observed by anyone .
They hurried on till they arrived at the mountain without once looking back .
Then Sigurd glanced round and saw that their stepmother was following them , with an expression on her face which made her uglier than the ugliest old witch .
Between her and them lay a thick wood , and Sigurd stopped for a moment to set it on fire ; then he and his sister hastened on more swiftly than before , till they reached the grove with the red and green trees , into which they jumped , and felt that at last they were safe .
Now , at that time there reigned over Greece a king who was very rich and powerful , although his name has somehow been forgotten .
He had two children , a son and a daughter , who were more beautiful and accomplished than any Greeks had been before , and they were the pride of their father 's heart .
The prince had no sooner grown out of boyhood than he prevailed on his father to make war during the summer months on a neighbouring nation , so as to give him a chance of making himself famous .
In winter , however , when it was difficult to get food and horses in that wild country , the army was dispersed , and the prince returned home .
During one of these wars he had heard reports of the Princess Lineik 's beauty , and he resolved to seek her out , and to ask for her hand in marriage .
All this Blauvor , the queen , found out by means of her black arts , and when the prince drew near the capital she put a splendid dress on her own daughter and then went to meet her guest .
She bade him welcome to her palace , and when they had finished supper she told him of the loss of her husband , and how there was no one left to govern the kingdom but herself .
` But where is the Princess Lineik ? '
asked the prince when she had ended her tale .
` Here , ' answered the queen , bringing forward the girl , whom she had hitherto kept in the background .
The prince looked at her and was rather disappointed .
The maiden was pretty enough , but not much out of the common .
` Oh , you must not wonder at her pale face and heavy eyes , ' said the queen hastily , for she saw what was passing in his mind .
` She has never got over the loss of both father and mother . '
` That shows a good heart , ' thought the prince ; ` and when she is happy her beauty will soon come back . '
And without any further delay he begged the queen to consent to their betrothal , for the marriage must take place in his own country .
The queen was enchanted .
She had hardly expected to succeed so soon , and she at once set about her preparations .
Indeed she wished to travel with the young couple , to make sure that nothing should go wrong ; but here the prince was firm , that he would take no one with him but Laufer , whom he thought was Lineik .
They soon took leave of the queen , and set sail in a splendid ship ; but in a short time a dense fog came on , and in the dark the captain steered out of his course , and they found themselves in a bay which was quite strange to all the crew .
The prince ordered a boat to be lowered , and went on shore to look about him , and it was not long before he noticed the two beautiful trees , quite different from any that grew in Greece .
Calling one of the sailors , he bade him cut them down , and carry them on board the ship .
This was done , and as the sky was now clear they put out to sea , and arrived in Greece without any more adventures .
The news that the prince had brought home a bride had gone before them , and they were greeted with flowery arches and crowns of coloured lights .
The king and queen met them on the steps of the palace , and conducted the girl to the women 's house , where she would have to remain until her marriage .
The prince then went to his own rooms and ordered that the trees should be brought in to him .
The next morning the prince bade his attendants bring his future bride to his own apartments , and when she came he gave her silk which she was to weave into three robes -- one red , one green , and one blue -- and these must all be ready before the wedding .
The blue one was to be done first and the green last , and this was to be the most splendid of all , ` for I will wear it at our marriage , ' said he .
Left alone , Laufer sat and stared at the heap of shining silk before her .
She did not know how to weave , and burst into tears as she thought that everything would be discovered , for Lineik 's skill in weaving was as famous as her beauty .
As she sat with her face hidden and her body shaken by sobs , Sigurd in his tree heard her and was moved to pity .
` Lineik , my sister , ' he called , softly , ` Laufer is weeping ; help her , I pray you . '
` Have you forgotten the wrongs her mother did to us ' answered Lineik , ` and that it is owing to her that we are banished from home ? '
But she was not really unforgiving , and very soon she slid quietly out of her hiding-place , and taking the silk from Laufer 's hands began to weave it .
So quick and clever was she that the blue dress was not only woven but embroidered , and Lineik was safe back in her tree before the prince returned .
` It is the most beautiful work I have ever seen , ' said he , taking up a bit .
` And I am sure that the red one will be still better , because the stuff is richer , ' and with a low bow he left the room .
Laufer had hoped secretly that when the prince had seen the blue dress finished he would have let her off the other two ; but when she found she was expected to fulfil the whole task , her heart sank and she began to cry loudly .
Again Sigurd heard her , and begged Lineik to come to her help , and Lineik , feeling sorry for her distress , wove and embroidered the second dress as she had done the first , mixing gold thread and precious stones till you could hardly see the red of the stuff .
When it was done she glided into her tree just as the prince came in .
` You are as quick as you are clever , ' said he , admiringly .
` This looks as if it had been embroidered by the fairies !
But as the green robe must outshine the other two I will give you three days in which to finish it .
After it is ready we will be married at once . '
Now , as he spoke , there rose up in Laufer 's mind all the unkind things that she and her mother had done to Lineik .
Could she hope that they would be forgotten , and that Lineik would come to her rescue for the third time ?
And perhaps Lineik , who had not forgotten the past either , might have left her alone , to get on as best she could , had not Sigurd , her brother , implored her to help just once more .
So Lineik again slid out of her tree , and , to Laufer 's great relief , set herself to work .
When the shining green silk was ready she caught the sun 's rays and the moon 's beams on the point of her needle and wove them into a pattern such as no man had ever seen .
But it took a long time , and on the third morning , just as she was putting the last stitches into the last flower the prince came in .
Lineik jumped up quickly , and tried to get past him back to her tree ; but the folds of the silk were wrapped round her , and she would have fallen had not the prince caught her . '
I have thought for some time that all was not quite straight here , ' said he .
` Tell me who you are , and where you come from ? '
Lineik then told her name and her story .
When she had ended the prince turned angrily to Laufer , and declared that , as a punishment for her wicked lies , she deserved to die a shameful death .
But Laufer fell at his feet and begged for mercy .
It was her mother 's fault , she said : ` It was she , and not I , who passed me off as the Princess Lineik .
The only lie I have ever told you was about the robes , and I do not deserve death for that . '
She was still on her knees when Prince Sigurd entered the room .
He prayed the Prince of Greece to forgive Laufer , which he did , on condition that Lineik would consent to marry him .
` Not till my stepmother is dead , ' answered she , ` for she has brought misery to all that came near her . '
Then Laufer told them that Blauvor was not the wife of a king , but an ogress who had stolen her from a neighbouring palace and had brought her up as her daughter .
And besides being an ogress she was also a witch , and by her black arts had sunk the ship in which the father of Sigurd and Lineik had set sail .
It was she who had caused the disappearance of the courtiers , for which no one could account , by eating them during the night , and she hoped to get rid of all the people in the country , and then to fill the land with ogres and ogresses like herself .
So Prince Sigurd and the Prince of Greece collected an army swiftly , and marched upon the town where Blauvor had her palace .
They came so suddenly that no one knew of it , and if they had , Blauvor had eaten most of the strong men ; and others , fearful of something they could not tell what , had secretly left the place .
Therefore she was easily captured , and the next day was beheaded in the market-place .
Afterwards the two princes marched back to Greece .
Lineik had no longer any reason for putting off her wedding , and married the Prince of Greece at the same time that Sigurd married the princess .
And Laufer remained with Lineik as her friend and sister , till they found a husband for her in a great nobleman ; and all three couples lived happily until they died .
-LSB- From Islandische Muhrchen Poestion Wien . -RSB-
The Six Hungry Beasts Once upon a time there lived a man who dwelt with his wife in a little hut , far away from any neighbours .
But they did not mind being alone , and would have been quite happy , if it had not been for a marten , who came every night to their poultry yard , and carried off one of their fowls .
The man laid all sorts of traps to catch the thief , but instead of capturing the foe , it happened that one day he got caught himself , and falling down , struck his head against a stone , and was killed .
Not long after the marten came by on the look out for his supper .
Seeing the dead man lying there , he said to himself : ` That is a prize , this time I have done well ' ; and dragging the body with great difficulty to the sledge which was waiting for him , drove off with his booty .
He had not driven far when he met a squirrel , who bowed and said : ` Good-morning , godfather !
what have you got behind you ? '
The marten laughed and answered : ` Did you ever hear anything so strange ?
The old man that you see here set traps about his hen-house , thinking to catch me but he fell into his own trap , and broke his own neck .
He is very heavy ; I wish you would help me to draw the sledge . '
The squirrel did as he was asked , and the sledge moved slowly along .
By-and-by a hare came running across a field , but stopped to see what wonderful thing was coming .
` What have you got there ? '
she asked , and the marten told his story and begged the hare to help them pull .
The hare pulled her hardest , and after a while they were joined by a fox , and then by a wolf , and at length a bear was added to the company , and he was of more use than all the other five beasts put together .
Besides , when the whole six had supped off the man he was not so heavy to draw .
The worst of it was that they soon began to get hungry again , and the wolf , who was the hungriest of all , said to the rest : ` What shall we eat now , my friends , as there is no more man ? ' '
I suppose we shall have to eat the smallest of us , ' replied the bear , and the marten turned round to seize the squirrel who was much smaller than any of the rest .
But the squirrel ran up a tree like lightning , and the marten remembering , just in time , that he was the next in size , slipped quick as thought into a hole in the rocks .
` What shall we eat now ? '
asked the wolf again , when he had recovered from his surprise .
` We must eat the smallest of us , ' repeated the bear , stretching out a paw towards the hare ; but the hare was not a hare for nothing , and before the paw had touched her , she had darted deep into the wood .
Now that the squirrel , the marten , and the hare had all gone , the fox was the smallest of the three who were left , and the wolf and the bear explained that they were very sorry , but they would have to eat him .
Michael , the fox , did not run away as the others had done , but smiled in a friendly manner , and remarked : ` Things taste so stale in a valley ; one 's appetite is so much better up on a mountain . '
The wolf and the bear agreed , and they turned out of the hollow where they had been walking , and chose a path that led up the mountain side .
The fox trotted cheerfully by his two big companions , but on the way he managed to whisper to the wolf : ` Tell me , Peter , when I am eaten , what will you have for your next dinner ? '
This simple question seemed to put out the wolf very much .
What would they have for their next dinner , and , what was more important still , who would there be to eat it ?
They had made a rule always to dine off the smallest of the party , and when the fox was gone , why of course , he was smaller than the bear .
These thoughts flashed quickly through his head , and he said hastily : ` Dear brothers , would it not be better for us to live together as comrades , and everyone to hunt for the common dinner ?
Is not my plan a good one ? '
` It is the best thing I have ever heard , ' answered the fox ; and as they were two to one the bear had to be content , though in his heart he would much have preferred a good dinner at once to any friendship .
For a few days all went well ; there was plenty of game in the forest , and even the wolf had as much to eat as he could wish .
One morning the fox as usual was going his rounds when he noticed a tall , slender tree , with a magpie 's nest in one of the top branches .
Now the fox was particularly fond of young magpies , and he set about making a plan by which he could have one for dinner .
At last he hit upon something which he thought would do , and accordingly he sat down near the tree and began to stare hard at it .
` What are you looking at , Michael ? '
asked the magpie , who was watching him from a bough .
` I 'm looking at this tree .
It has just struck me what a good tree it would be to cut my new snow-shoes out of . '
But at this answer the magpie screeched loudly , and exclaimed : ` Oh , not this tree , dear brother , I implore you !
I have built my nest on it , and my young ones are not yet old enough to fly . '
` It will not be easy to find another tree that would make such good snow-shoes , ' answered the fox , cocking his head on one side , and gazing at the tree thoughtfully ; ` but I do not like to be ill-natured , so if you will give me one of your young ones I will seek my snow-shoes elsewhere . '
Not knowing what to do the poor magpie had to agree , and flying back , with a heavy heart , he threw one of his young ones out of the nest .
The fox seized it in his mouth and ran off in triumph , while the magpie , though deeply grieved for the loss of his little one , found some comfort in the thought that only a bird of extraordinary wisdom would have dreamed of saving the rest by the sacrifice of the one .
But what do you think happened ?
Why , a few days later , Michael the fox might have been seen sitting under the very same tree , and a dreadful pang shot through the heart of the magpie as he peeped at him from a hole in the nest .
` What are you looking at ? '
he asked in a trembling voice .
` At this tree .
I was just thinking what good snowshoes it would make , ' answered the fox in an absent voice , as if he was not thinking of what he was saying .
` Oh , my brother , my dear little brother , do n't do that , ' cried the magpie , hopping about in his anguish .
` You know you promised only a few days ago that you would get your snow-shoes elsewhere . '
` So I did ; but though I have searched through the whole forest , there is not a single tree that is as good as this .
I am very sorry to put you out , but really it is not my fault .
The only thing I can do for you is to offer to give up my snow-shoes altogether if you will throw me down one of your young ones in exchange . '
And the poor magpie , in spite of his wisdom , was obliged to throw another of his little ones out of the nest ; and this time he was not able to console himself with the thought that he had been much cleverer than other people .
He sat on the edge of his nest , his head drooping and his feathers all ruffled , looking the picture of misery .
Indeed he was so different from the gay , jaunty magpie whom every creature in the forest knew , that a crow who was flying past , stopped to inquire what was the matter .
` Where are the two young ones who are not in the nest ? '
asked he . '
I had to give them to the fox , ' replied the magpie in a quivering voice ; ` he has been here twice in the last week , and wanted to cut down my tree for the purpose of making snow-shoes out of it , and the only way I could buy him off was by giving him two of my young ones . '
Oh , you fool , ' cried the crow , ` the fox was only trying to frighten you .
He could not have cut down the tree , for he has neither axe nor knife .
Dear me , to think that you have sacrificed your young ones for nothing !
Dear , dear !
how could you be so very foolish ! '
And the crow flew away , leaving the magpie overcome with shame and sorrow .
The next morning the fox came to his usual place in front of the tree , for he was hungry , and a nice young magpie would have suited him very well for dinner .
But this time there was no cowering , timid magpie to do his bidding , but a bird with his head erect and a determined voice .
` My good fox , ' said the magpie putting his head on one side and looking very wise -- ` my good fox , if you take my advice , you will go home as fast as you can .
There is no use your talking about making snow-shoes out of this tree , when you have neither knife nor axe to cut it down with ! '
` Who has been teaching you wisdom ? '
asked the fox , forgetting his manners in his surprise at this new turn of affairs .
` The crow , who paid me a visit yesterday , ' answered the magpie .
` The crow was it ? '
said the fox , ` well , the crow had better not meet me for the future , or it may be the worse for him . '
As Michael , the cunning beast , had no desire to continue the conversation , he left the forest ; but when he came to the high road he laid himself at full length on the ground , stretching himself out , just as if he was dead .
Very soon he noticed , out of the corner of his eye , that the crow was flying towards him , and he kept stiller and stiffer than ever , with his tongue hanging out of his mouth .
The crow , who wanted her supper very badly , hopped quickly towards him , and was stooping forward to peck at his tongue when the fox gave a snap , and caught him by the wing .
The crow knew that it was of no use struggling , so he said : ` Ah , brother , if you are really going to eat me , do it , I beg of you , in good style .
Throw me first over this precipice , so that my feathers may be strewn here and there , and that all who see them may know that your cunning is greater than mine . '
This idea pleased the fox , for he had not yet forgiven the crow for depriving him of the young magpies , so he carried the crow to the edge of the precipice and threw him over , intending to go round by a path he knew and pick him up at the bottom .
But no sooner had the fox let the crow go than he soared up into the air , and hovering just out of teach of his enemy 's jaws , he cried with a laugh : ` Ah , fox !
you know well how to catch , but you can not keep . '
With his tail between his legs , the fox slunk into the forest .
He did not know where to look for a dinner , as he guessed that the crow would have flown back before him , and put every one on their guard .
The notion of going to bed supperless was very unpleasant to him , and he was wondering what in the world he should do , when he chanced to meet with his old friend the bear .
This poor animal had just lost his wife , and was going to get some one to mourn over her , for he felt her loss greatly .
He had hardly left his comfortable cave when he had come across the wolf , who inquired where he was going . '
I am going to find a mourner , ' answered the bear , and told his story .
` Oh , let me mourn for you , ' cried the wolf .
` Do you understand how to howl ? '
said the bear .
` Oh , certainly , godfather , certainly , ' replied the wolf ; but the bear said he should like to have a specimen of his howling , to make sure that he knew his business .
So the wolf broke forth in his song of lament : ` Hu , hu , hu , hum , hoh , ' he shouted , and he made such a noise that the bear put up his paws to his ears , and begged him to stop .
` You have no idea how it is done .
Be off with you , ' said he angrily .
A little further down the road the hare was resting in a ditch , but when she saw the bear , she came out and spoke to him , and inquired why he looked so sad .
The bear told her of the loss of his wife , and of his search after a mourner that could lament over her in the proper style .
The hare instantly offered her services , but the bear took care to ask her to give him a proof of her talents , before he accepted them .
` Pu , pu , pu , pum , poh , ' piped the hare ; but this time her voice was so small that the bear could hardly hear her .
` That is not what I want , ' he said , ' I will bid you good morning . '
It was after this that the fox came up , and he also was struck with the bear 's altered looks , and stopped .
` What is the matter with you , godfather ? '
asked he , ` and where are you going ? ' '
I am going to find a mourner for my wife , ' answered the bear .
` Oh , do choose me , ' cried the fox , and the bear looked at him thoughtfully .
` Can you howl well ? '
he said .
` Yes , beautifully , just listen , ' and the fox lifted up his voice and sang weeping : ` Lou , lou , lou !
the famous spinner , the baker of good cakes , the prudent housekeeper is torn from her husband !
Lou , lou , lou !
she is gone !
she is gone ! '
` Now at last I have found some one who knows the art of lamentation , ' exclaimed the bear , quite delighted ; and he led the fox back to his cave , and bade him begin his lament over the dead wife who was lying stretched out on her bed of grey moss .
But this did not suit the fox at all .
` One can not wail properly in this cave , ' he said , ` it is much too damp .
You had better take the body to the storehouse .
It will sound much finer there . '
So the bear carried his wife 's body to the storehouse , while he himself went back to the cave to cook some pap for the mourner .
From time to time he paused and listened for the sound of wailing , but he heard nothing .
At last he went to the door of the storehouse , and called to the fox : ` Why do n't you howl , godfather ?
What are you about ? '
And the fox , who , instead of weeping over the dead bear , had been quietly eating her , answered : ` There only remain now her legs and the soles of her feet .
Give me five minutes more and they will be gone also ! '
When the bear heard that he ran back for the kitchen ladle , to give the traitor the beating he deserved .
But as he opened the door of the storehouse , Michael was ready for him , and slipping between his legs , dashed straight off into the forest .
The bear , seeing that the traitor had escaped , flung the ladle after him , and it just caught the tip of his tail , and that is how there comes to be a spot of white on the tails of all foxes .
-LSB- From Finnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How The Beggar Boy Turned Into Count Piro Once upon a time there lived a man who had only one son , a lazy , stupid boy , who would never do anything he was told .
When the father was dying , he sent for his son and told him that he would soon be left alone in the world , with no possessions but the small cottage they lived in and a pear tree which grew behind it , and that , whether he liked it or not , he would have to work , or else he would starve .
Then the old man died .
But the boy did not work ; instead , he idled about as before , contenting himself with eating the pears off his tree , which , unlike other pear trees before or since , bore fruit the whole year round .
Indeed , the pears were so much finer than any you could get even in the autumn , that one day , in the middle of the winter , they attracted the notice of a fox who was creeping by .
` Dear me ; what lovely pears ! '
he said to the youth .
` Do give me a basket of them .
It will bring you luck ! '
` Ah , little fox , but if I give you a basketful , what am I to eat ? '
asked the boy .
` Oh , trust me , and do what I tell you , ' said the fox ; ' I know it will bring you luck . '
So the boy got up and picked some of the ripest pears and put them into a rush basket .
The fox thanked him , and , taking the basket in his mouth , trotted off to the king 's palace and made his way straight to the king .
` Your Majesty , my master sends you a few of his best pears , and begs you will graciously accept them , ' he said , laying the basket at the feet of the king .
` Pears !
at this season ? '
cried the king , peering down to look at them ; ` and , pray , who is your master ? '
` The Count Piro , ' answered the fox .
` But how does he manage to get pears in midwinter ? '
asked the king .
` Oh , he has everything he wants , ' replied the fox ; ` he is richer even than you are , your Majesty . '
` Then what can I send him in return for his pears ? '
said the king .
` Nothing , your Majesty , or you would hurt his feelings , ' answered the fox .
` Well , tell him how heartily I thank him , and how much I shall enjoy them . '
And the fox went away .
He trotted back to the cottage with his empty basket and told his tale , but the youth did not seem as pleased to hear as the fox was to tell .
` But , my dear little fox , ' said he , ` you have brought me nothing in return , and I am so hungry ! '
` Let me alone , ' replied the fox ; ' I know what I am doing .
You will see , it will bring you luck . '
A few days after this the fox came back again . '
I must have another basket of pears , ' said he .
` Ah , little fox , what shall I eat if you take away all my pears ? '
answered the youth .
` Be quiet , it will be all right , ' said the fox ; and taking a bigger basket than before , he filled it quite full of pears .
Then he picked it up in his mouth , and trotted off to the palace .
` Your Majesty , as you seemed to like the first basket of pears , I have brought you some more , ' said he , ` with my master , the Count Piro 's humble respects . '
` Now , surely it is not possible to grow such pears with deep snow on the ground ? '
cried the king .
` Oh , that never affects them , ' answered the fox lightly ; ` he is rich enough to do anything .
But to-day he sends me to ask if you will give him your daughter in marriage ? '
` If he is so much richer than I am , ' said the king , ' I shall be obliged to refuse .
My honour would not permit me to accept his offer . '
` Oh , your Majesty , you must not think that , ' replied the fox ; ` and do not let the question of a dowry trouble you .
The Count Piro would not dream of asking anything but the hand of the princess . '
` Is he really so rich that he can do without a dowry ? '
asked the king .
` Did I not tell your Majesty that he was richer than you ? '
answered the fox reproachfully .
` Well , beg him to come here , that we may talk together , ' said the king .
So the fox went back to the young man and said : ' I have told the king that you are Count Piro , and have asked his daughter in marriage . '
` Oh , little fox , what have you done ? '
cried the youth in dismay ; ` when the king sees me he will order my head to be cut off . '
` Oh , no , he wo n't ! '
replied the fox ; ` just do as I tell you . '
And he went off to the town , and stopped at the house of the best tailor .
` My master , the Count Piro , begs that you will send him at once the finest coat that you have in your shop , ' said the fox , putting on his grandest air , ` and if it fits him I will call and pay for it to-morrow !
Indeed , as he is in a great hurry , perhaps it might be as well if I took it round myself . '
The tailor was not accustomed to serve counts , and he at once got out all the coats he had ready .
The fox chose out a beautiful one of white and silver , bade the tailor tie it up in a parcel , and carrying the string in his teeth , he left the shop , and went to a horse-dealer 's , whom he persuaded to send his finest horse round to the cottage , saying that the king had bidden his master to the palace .
Very unwillingly the young man put on the coat and mounted the horse , and rode up to meet the king , with the fox running before him .
` What am I to say to his Majesty , little fox ? '
he asked anxiously ; ` you know that I have never spoken to a king before . '
` Say nothing , ' answered the fox , ` but leave the talking to me .
`` Good morning , your Majesty , '' will be all that is necessary for you . '
By this time they had reached the palace , and the king came to the door to receive Count Piro , and led him to the great hall , where a feast was spread .
The princess was already seated at the table , but was as dumb as Count Piro himself .
` The Count speaks very little , ' the king said at last to the fox , and the fox answered : ` He has so much to think about in the management of his property that he can not afford to talk like ordinary people . '
The king was quite satisfied , and they finished dinner , after which Count Piro and the fox took leave .
The next morning the fox came round again .
` Give me another basket of pears , ' he said .
` Very well , little fox ; but remember it may cost me my life , ' answered the youth .
` Oh , leave it to me , and do as I tell you , and you will see that in the end it will bring you luck , ' answered the fox ; and plucking the pears he took them up to the king .
` My master , Count Piro , sends you these pears , ' he said , ` and asks for an answer to his proposal . '
` Tell the count that the wedding can take place whenever he pleases , ' answered the king , and , filled with pride , the fox trotted back to deliver his message .
` But I ca n't bring the princess here , little fox ? '
cried the young man in dismay .
` You leave everything to me , ' answered the fox ; ` have I not managed well so far ? '
And up at the palace preparations were made for a grand wedding , and the youth was married to the princess .
After a week of feasting , the fox said to the king : ` My master wishes to take his young bride home to his own castle . '
` Very well , I will accompany them , ' replied the king ; and he ordered his courtiers and attendants to get ready , and the best horses in his stable to be brought out for himself , Count Piro and the princess .
So they all set out , and rode across the plain , the little fox running before them .
He stopped at the sight of a great flock of sheep , which was feeding peacefully on the rich grass .
` To whom do these sheep belong ? '
asked he of the shepherd .
` To an ogre , ' replied the shepherd .
` Hush , ' said the fox in a mysterious manner .
` Do you see that crowd of armed men riding along ?
If you were to tell them that those sheep belonged to an ogre , they would kill them , and then the ogre would kill you !
If they ask , just say the sheep belong to Count Piro ; it will be better for everybody . '
And the fox ran hastily on , as he did not wish to be seen talking to the shepherd .
Very soon the king came up .
` What beautiful sheep ! '
he said , drawing up his horse . '
I have none so fine in my pastures .
Whose are they ? '
` Count Piro 's , ' answered the shepherd , who did not know the king .
` Well , he must be a very rich man , ' thought the king to himself , and rejoiced that he had such a wealthy son-in-law .
Meanwhile the fox had met with a huge herd of pigs , snuffling about the roots of some trees .
` To whom do these pigs belong ? '
he asked of the swineherd .
` To an ogre , ' replied he .
` Hush ! '
whispered the fox , though nobody could hear him ; ` do you see that troop of armed men riding towards us ?
If you tell them that the pigs belong to the ogre they will kill them , and then the ogre will kill you !
If they ask , just say that the pigs belong to Count Piro ; it will be better for everybody . '
And he ran hastily on .
Soon after the king rode up .
` What fine pigs ! '
he said , reining in his horse .
` They are fatter than any I have got on my farms .
Whose are they ? '
` Count Piro 's , ' answered the swineherd , who did not know the king ; and again the king felt he was lucky to have such a rich son-in-law .
This time the fox ran faster than before , and in a flowery meadow he found a troop of horses feeding .
` Whose horses are these ? '
he asked of the man who was watching them .
` An ogre 's , ' replied he .
` Hush ! '
whispered the fox , ` do you see that crowd of armed men coming towards us ?
If you tell them the horses belong to an ogre they will drive them off , and then the ogre will kill you !
If they ask , just say they are Count Piro 's ; it will be better for everybody . '
And he ran on again .
In a few minutes the king rode up .
` Oh , what lovely creatures !
how I wish they were mine ! '
he exclaimed .
` Whose are they ? '
Count Piro 's , ' answered the man , who did not know the king ; and the king 's heart leapt as he thought that if they belonged to his rich son-in-law they were as good as his .
At last the fox came to the castle of the ogre himself .
He ran up the steps , with tears falling from his eyes , and crying : ` Oh , you poor , poor people , what a sad fate is yours ! '
` What has happened ? '
asked the ogre , trembling with fright .
` Do you see that troop of horsemen who are riding along the road ?
They are sent by the king to kill you ! '
` Oh , dear little fox , help us , we implore you ! '
cried the ogre and his wife .
` Well , I will do what I can , ' answered the fox .
` The best place is for you both to hide in the big oven , and when the soldiers have gone by I will let you out . '
The ogre and ogress scrambled into the oven as quick as thought , and the fox banged the door on them ; just as he did so the king came up .
` Do us the honour to dismount , your Majesty , ' said the fox , bowing low .
` This is the palace of Count Piro ! '
` Why it is more splendid than my own ! '
exclaimed the king , looking round on all the beautiful things that filled the hall .
But why are there no servants ? '
` His Excellency the Count Piro wished the princess to choose them for herself , ' answered the fox , and the king nodded his approval .
He then rode on , leaving the bridal pair in the castle .
But when it was dark and all was still , the fox crept downstairs and lit the kitchen fire , and the ogre and his wife were burned to death .
The next morning the fox said to Count Piro : ` Now that you are rich and happy , you have no more need of me ; but , before I go , there is one thing I must ask of you in return : when I die , promise me that you will give me a magnificent coffin , and bury me with due honours . '
` Oh , little , little fox , do n't talk of dying , ' cried the princess , nearly weeping , for she had taken a great liking to the fox .
After some time the fox thought he would see if the Count Piro was really grateful to him for all he had done , and went back to the castle , where he lay down on the door-step , and pretended to be dead .
The princess was just going out for a walk , and directly she saw him lying there , she burst into tears and fell on her knees beside him .
` My dear little fox , you are not dead , ' she wailed ; ` you poor , poor little creature , you shall have the finest coffin in the world ! ' '
A coffin for an animal ? '
said Count Piro .
` What nonsense !
just take him by the leg and throw him into the ditch . '
Then the fox sprang up and cried : ` You wretched , thankless beggar ; have you forgotten that you owe all your riches to me ? '
Count Piro was frightened when he heard these words , as he thought that perhaps the fox might have power to take away the castle , and leave him as poor as when he had nothing to eat but the pears off his tree .
So he tried to soften the fox 's anger , saying that he had only spoken in joke , as he had known quite well that he was not really dead .
For the sake of the princess , the fox let himself be softened , and he lived in the castle for many years , and played with Count Piro 's children .
And when he actually did die , his coffin was made of silver , and Count Piro and his wife followed him to the grave .
-LSB- From Sicilianische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Rogue And The Herdsman In a tiny cottage near the king 's palace there once lived an old man , his wife , and his son , a very lazy fellow , who would never do a stroke of work .
He could not be got even to look after their one cow , but left her to look after herself , while he lay on a bank and went to sleep in the sun .
For a long time his father bore with him , hoping that as he grew older he might gain more sense ; but at last the old man 's patience was worn out , and he told his son that he should not stay at house in idleness , and must go out into the world to seek his fortune .
The young man saw that there was no help for it , and he set out with a wallet full of food over his shoulder .
At length he came to a large house , at the door of which he knocked .
` What do you want ? '
asked the old man who opened it .
And the youth told him how his father had turned him out of his house because he was so lazy and stupid , and he needed shelter for the night .
` That you shall have , ' replied the man ; ` but to-morrow I shall give you some work to do , for you must know that I am the chief herdsman of the king . '
The youth made no answer to this .
He felt , if he was to be made to work after all , that he might as well have stayed where he was .
But as he did not see any other way of getting a bed , he went slowly in .
The herdsman 's two daughters and their mother were sitting at supper , and invited him to join them .
Nothing more was said about work , and when the meal was over they all went to bed .
In the morning , when the young man was dressed , the herdsman called to him and said : ` Now listen , and I will tell you what you have to do . '
` What is it ? '
asked the youth , sulkily .
` Nothing less than to look after two hundred pigs , ' was the reply .
` Oh , I am used to that , ' answered the youth .
` Yes ; but this time you will have to do it properly , ' said the herdsman ; and he took the youth to the place where the pigs were feeding , and told him to drive them to the woods on the side of the mountain .
This the young man did , but as soon as they reached the outskirts of the mountain they grew quite wild , and would have run away altogether , had they not luckily gone towards a narrow ravine , from which the youth easily drove them home to his father 's cottage .
` Where do all these pigs come from , and how did you get them ? '
asked the old man in surprise , when his son knocked at the door of the hut he had left only the day before .
` They belong to the king 's chief herdsman , ' answered his son .
` He gave them to me to look after , but I knew I could not do it , so I drove them straight to you .
Now make the best of your good fortune , and kill them and hang them up at once . '
` What are you talking about ? '
cried the father , pale with horror .
` We should certainly both be put to death if I did any such thing . '
` No , no ; do as I tell you , and I will get out of it somehow , ' replied the young man .
And in the end he had his way .
The pigs were killed , and laid side by side in a row .
Then he cut off the tails and tied them together with a piece of cord , and swinging the bundle over his back , he returned to the place where they should have been feeding .
Here there was a small swamp , which was just what he wanted , and finding a large stone , he fastened the rope to it , and sank it in the swamp , after which he arranged the tails carefully one by one , so that only their points were seen sticking out of the water .
When everything was in order , he hastened home to his master with such a sorrowful face that the herdsman saw at once that something dreadful had happened .
` Where are the pigs ? '
asked he .
` Oh , do n't speak of them ! '
answered the young man ; ' I really can hardly tell you .
The moment they got into the field they became quite mad , and each ran in a different direction .
I ran too , hither and thither , but as fast as I caught one , another was off , till I was in despair .
At last , however , I collected them all and was about to drive them back , when suddenly they rushed down the hill into the swamp , where they vanished completely , leaving only the points of their tails , which you can see for yourself . '
` You have made up that story very well , ' replied the herdsman .
` No , it is the real truth ; come with me and I 'll prove it . '
And they went together to the spot , and there sure enough were the points of the tails sticking up out of the water .
The herdsman laid hold of the nearest , and pulled at it with all his might , but it was no use , for the stone and the rope held them all fast .
He called to the young man to help him , but the two did not succeed any better than the one had done .
` Yes , your story was true after all ; it is a wonderful thing , ' said the herdsman .
` But I see it is no fault of yours , and I must put up with my loss as well as I can .
Now let us return home , for it is time for supper .
Next morning the herdsman said to the young man : ' I have got some other work for you to do .
To-day you must take a hundred sheep to graze ; but be careful that no harm befalls them . ' '
I will do my best , ' replied the youth .
And he opened the gate of the fold , where the sheep had been all night , and drove them out into the meadow .
But in a short time they grew as wild as the pigs had done , and scattered in all directions .
The young man could not collect them , try as he would , and he thought to himself that this was the punishment for his laziness in refusing to look after his father 's one cow .
At last , however , the sheep seemed tired of running about , and then the youth managed to gather them together , and drove them , as before , straight to his father 's house .
` Whose sheep are these , and what are they doing here ? '
asked the old man in wonder , and his son told him .
But when the tale was ended the father shook his head .
` Give up these bad ways and take them back to your master , ' said he .
` No , no , ' answered the youth ; ' I am not so stupid as that !
We will kill them and have them for dinner . '
` You will lose your life if you do , ' replied the father .
` Oh , I am not sure of that ! '
said the son , ` and , anyway , I will have my will for once . '
And he killed all the sheep and laid them on the grass .
But he cut off the head of the ram which always led the flock and had bells round its horns .
This he took back to the place where they should have been feeding , for here he had noticed a high rock , with a patch of green grass in the middle and two or three thick bushes growing on the edge .
Up this rock he climbed with great difficulty , and fastened the ram 's head to the bushes with a cord , leaving only the tips of the horns with the bells visible .
As there was a soft breeze blowing , the bushes to which the head was tied moved gently , and the bells rang .
When all was done to his liking he hastened quickly back to his master .
` Where are the sheep ? '
asked the herdsman as the young man ran panting up the steps .
` Oh !
do n't speak of them , ' answered he .
` It is only by a miracle that I am here myself . '
` Tell me at once what has happened , ' said the herdsman sternly .
The youth began to sob , and stammered out : ` I -- I hardly know how to tell you !
They -- they -- they were so -- so troublesome -- that I could not manage them at all .
They -- ran about in -- in all directions , and I -- I -- ran after them and nearly died of fatigue .
Then I heard a -- a noise , which I -- I thought was the wind .
But -- but -- it was the sheep , which , be -- before my very eyes , were carried straight up -- up into the air .
I stood watching them as if I was turned to stone , but there kept ringing in my ears the sound of the bells on the ram which led them . '
` That is nothing but a lie from beginning to end , ' said the herdsman .
` No , it is as true as that there is a sun in heaven , ' answered the young man .
` Then give me a proof of it , ' cried his master .
` Well , come with me , ' said the youth .
By this time it was evening and the dusk was falling .
The young man brought the herdsman to the foot of the great rock , but it was so dark you could hardly see .
Still the sound of sheep bells rang softly from above , and the herdsman knew them to be those he had hung on the horns of his ram .
` Do you hear ? '
asked the youth .
` Yes , I hear ; you have spoken the truth , and I can not blame you for what has happened .
I must bear the loss as best as I can . '
He turned and went home , followed by the young man , who felt highly pleased with his own cleverness . '
I should not be surprised if the tasks I set you were too difficult , and that you were tired of them , ' said the herdsman next morning ; ` but to-day I have something quite easy for you to do .
You must look after forty oxen , and be sure you are very careful , for one of them has gold-tipped horns and hoofs , and the king reckons it among his greatest treasures . '
The young man drove out the oxen into the meadow , and no sooner had they got there than , like the sheep and the pigs , they began to scamper in all directions , the precious bull being the wildest of all .
As the youth stood watching them , not knowing what to do next , it came into his head that his father 's cow was put out to grass at no great distance ; and he forthwith made such a noise that he quite frightened the oxen , who were easily persuaded to take the path he wished .
When they heard the cow lowing they galloped all the faster , and soon they all arrived at his father 's house .
The old man was standing before the door of his hut when the great herd of animals dashed round a corner of the road , with his son and his own cow at their head .
` Whose cattle are these , and why are they here ? '
he asked ; and his son told him the story .
` Take them back to your master as soon as you can , ' said the old man ; but the son only laughed , and said : ` No , no ; they are a present to you !
They will make you fat ! '
For a long while the old man refused to have anything to do with such a wicked scheme ; but his son talked him over in the end , and they killed the oxen as they had killed the sheep and the pigs .
Last of all they came to the king 's cherished ox .
The son had a rope ready to cast round its horns , and throw it to the ground , but the ox was stronger than the rope , and soon tore it in pieces .
Then it dashed away to the wood , the youth following ; over hedges and ditches they both went , till they reached the rocky pass which bordered the herdsman 's land .
Here the ox , thinking itself safe , stopped to rest , and thus gave the young man a chance to come up with it .
Not knowing how to catch it , he collected all the wood he could find and made a circle of fire round the ox , who by this time had fallen asleep , and did not wake till the fire had caught its head , and it was too late for it to escape .
Then the young man , who had been watching , ran home to his master .
` You have been away a long while , ' said the herdsman .
` Where are the cattle ? '
The young man gasped , and seemed as if he was unable to speak .
At last he answered : ` It is always the same story !
The oxen are -- gone -- gone ! '
` G-g-gone ? '
cried the herdsman .
` Scoundrel , you lie ! ' '
I am telling you the exact truth , ' answered the young man .
` Directly we came to the meadow they grew so wild that I could not keep them together .
Then the big ox broke away , and the others followed till they all disappeared down a deep hole into the earth .
It seemed to me that I heard sounds of bellowing , and I thought I recognised the voice of the golden horned ox ; but when I got to the place from which the sounds had come , I could neither see nor hear anything in the hole itself , though there were traces of a fire all round it . '
` Wretch ! '
cried the herdsman , when he had heard this story , ` even if you did not lie before , you are lying now . '
` No , master , I am speaking the truth .
Come and see for yourself . '
` If I find you have deceived me , you are a dead man , said the herdsman ; and they went out together .
` What do you call that ? '
asked the youth .
And the herdsman looked and saw the traces of a fire , which seemed to have sprung up from under the earth .
` Wonder upon wonder , ' he exclaimed , ` so you really did speak the truth after all !
Well , I can not reproach you , though I shall have to pay heavily to my royal master for the value of that ox .
But come , let us go home !
I will never set you to herd cattle again , henceforward I will give you something easier to do . ' '
I have thought of exactly the thing for you , ' said the herdsman as they walked along , ` and it is so simple that you can not make a mistake .
Just make me ten scythes , one for every man , for I want the grass mown in one of my meadows to-morrow . '
At these words the youth 's heart sank , for he had never been trained either as a smith or a joiner .
However , he dared not say no , but smiled and nodded .
Slowly and sadly he went to bed , but he could not sleep , for wondering how the scythes were to be made .
All the skill and cunning he had shown before was of no use to him now , and after thinking about the scythes for many hours , there seemed only one way open to him .
So , listening to make sure that all was still , he stole away to his parents , and told them the whole story .
When they had heard everything , they hid him where no one could find him .
Time passed away , and the young man stayed at home doing all his parents bade him , and showing himself very different from what he had been before he went out to see the world ; but one day he said to his father that he should like to marry , and have a house of his own .
` When I served the king 's chief herdsman , ' added he , ' I saw his daughter , and I am resolved to try if I can not win her for my wife . '
` It will cost you your life , if you do , ' answered the father , shaking his head .
` Well , I will do my best , ' replied his son ; ` but first give me the sword which hangs over your bed ! '
The old man did not understand what good the sword would do , however he took it down , and the young man went his way .
Late in the evening he arrived at the house of the herdsman , and knocked at the door , which was opened by a little boy . '
I want to speak to your master , ' said he .
` So it is you ? '
cried the herdsman , when he had received the message .
` Well , you can sleep here to-night if you wish . ' '
I have come for something else besides a bed , ' replied the young man , drawing his sword , ` and if you do not promise to give me your youngest daughter as my wife I will stab you through the heart . '
What could the poor man do but promise ?
And he fetched his youngest daughter , who seemed quite pleased at the proposed match , and gave the youth her hand .
Then the young man went home to his parents , and bade them get ready to welcome his bride .
And when the wedding was over he told his father-in-law , the herdsman , what he had done with the sheep , and pigs , and cattle .
By-and-by the story came to the king 's ears , and he thought that a man who was so clever was just the man to govern the country ; so he made him his minister , and after the king himself there was no one so great as he .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Eisenkopf Once upon a time there lived an old man who had only one son , whom he loved dearly ; but they were very poor , and often had scarcely enough to eat .
Then the old man fell ill , and things grew worse than ever , so he called his son and said to him : ` My dear boy , I have no longer any food to give you , and you must go into the world and get it for yourself .
It does not matter what work you do , but remember if you do it well and are faithful to your master , you will always have your reward . '
So Peter put a piece of black bread in his knapsack , and strapping it on his back , took a stout stick in his hand , and set out to seek his fortune .
For a long while he travelled on and on , and nobody seemed to want him ; but one day he met an old man , and being a polite youth , he took off his hat and said : ` Good morning , ' in a pleasant voice .
` Good morning , ' answered the old man ; ` and where are you going ? ' '
I am wandering through the country trying to get work , ' replied Peter .
` Then stay with me , for I can give you plenty , ' said the old man , and Peter stayed .
His work did not seem hard , for he had only two horses and a cow to see after , and though he had been hired for a year , the year consisted of but three days , so that it was not long before he received his wages .
In payment the old man gave him a nut , and offered to keep him for another year ; but Peter was home-sick ; and , besides , he would rather have been paid ever so small a piece of money than a nut ; for , thought he , nuts grow on every tree , and I can gather as many as I like .
However , he did not say this to the old man , who had been kind to him , but just bade him farewell .
The nearer Peter drew to his father 's house the more ashamed he felt at having brought back such poor wages .
What could one nut do for him ?
Why , it would not buy even a slice of bacon .
It was no use taking it home , he might as well eat it .
So he sat down on a stone and cracked it with his teeth , and then took it out of his mouth to break off the shell .
But who could ever guess what came out of that nut ?
Why , horses and oxen and sheep stepped out in such numbers that they seemed as if they would stretch to the world 's end !
The sight gave Peter such a shock that he wrung his hands in dismay .
What was he to do with all these creatures , where was he to put them ?
He stood and gazed in terror , and at this moment Eisenkopf came by .
` What is the matter , young man ? '
asked he .
` Oh , my friend , there is plenty the matter , ' answered Peter . '
I have gained a nut as my wages , and when I cracked it this crowd of beasts came out , and I do n't know what to do with them all ! '
` Listen to me , my son , ' said Eisenkopf .
` If you will promise never to marry I will drive them all back into the nut again . '
In his trouble Peter would have promised far harder things than this , so he gladly gave the promise Eisenkopf asked for ; and at a whistle from the stranger the animals all began crowding into the nut again , nearly tumbling over each other in their haste .
When the last foot had got inside , the two halves of the shell shut close .
Then Peter put it in his pocket and went on to the house .
No sooner had he reached it than he cracked his nut for the second time , and out came the horses , sheep , and oxen again .
Indeed Peter thought that there were even more of them than before .
The old man could not believe his eyes when he saw the multitudes of horses , oxen and sheep standing before his door .
` How did you come by all these ? '
he gasped , as soon as he could speak ; and the son told him the whole story , and of the promise he had given Eisenkopf .
The next day some of the cattle were driven to market and sold , and with the money the old man was able to buy some of the fields and gardens round his house , and in a few months had grown the richest and most prosperous man in the whole village .
Everything seemed to turn to gold in his hands , till one day , when he and his son were sitting in the orchard watching their herds of cattle grazing in the meadows , he suddenly said : ` Peter , my boy , it is time that you were thinking of marrying . '
` But , my dear father , I told you I can never marry , because of the promise I gave to Eisenkopf . '
` Oh , one promises here and promises there , but no one ever thinks of keeping such promises .
If Eisenkopf does not like your marrying , he will have to put up with it all the same !
Besides , there stands in the stable a grey horse which is saddled night and day ; and if Eisenkopf should show his face , you have only got to jump on the horse 's back and ride away , and nobody on earth can catch you .
When all is safe you will come back again , and we shall live as happily as two fish in the sea . '
And so it all happened .
The young man found a pretty , brown-skinned girl who was willing to have him for a husband , and the whole village came to the wedding feast .
The music was at its gayest , and the dance at its merriest , when Eisenkopf looked in at the window .
` Oh , ho , my brother !
what is going on here ?
It has the air of being a wedding feast .
Yet I fancied -- was I mistaken ?
-- that you had given me a promise that you never would marry . '
But Peter had not waited for the end of this speech .
Scarcely had he seen Eisenkopf than he darted like the wind to the stable and flung himself on the horse 's back .
In another moment he was away over the mountain , with Eisenkopf running fast behind him .
On they went through thick forests where the sun never shone , over rivers so wide that it took a whole day to sail across them , up hills whose sides were all of glass ; on they went through seven times seven countries till Peter reined in his horse before the house of an old woman .
` Good day , mother , ' said he , jumping down and opening the door .
` Good day , my son , ' answered she , ` and what are you doing here , at the world 's end ? ' '
I am flying for my life , mother , flying to the world which is beyond all worlds ; for Eisenkopf is at my heels . '
` Come in and rest then , and have some food , for I have a little dog who will begin to howl when Eisenkopf is still seven miles off . '
So Peter went in and warmed himself and ate and drank , till suddenly the dog began to howl .
` Quick , my son , quick , you must go , ' cried the old woman .
And the lightning itself was not quicker than Peter .
` Stop a moment , ' cried the old woman again , just as he was mounting his horse , ` take this napkin and this cake , and put them in your bag where you can get hold of them easily . '
Peter took them and put them into his bag , and waving his thanks for her kindness , he was off like the wind .
Round and round he rode , through seven times seven countries , through forests still thicker , and rivers still wider , and mountains still more slippery than the others he had passed , till at length he reached a house where dwelt another old woman .
` Good day , mother , ' said he .
` Good day , my son !
What are you seeking here at the world 's end ? ' '
I am flying for my life , mother , flying to the world that is beyond all worlds , for Eisenkopf is at my heels . '
` Come in , my son , and have some food .
I have a little dog who will begin to howl when Eisenkopf is still seven miles off ; so lie on this bed and rest yourself in peace . '
Then she went to the kitchen and baked a number of cakes , more than Peter could have eaten in a whole month .
He had not finished a quarter of them , when the dog began to howl .
` Now , my son , you must go , ' cried the old woman ` but first put these cakes and this napkin in your bag , where you can easily get at them . '
So Peter thanked her and was off like the wind .
On he rode , through seven times seven countries , till he came to the house of a third old woman , who welcomed him as the others had done .
But when the dog howled , and Peter sprang up to go , she said , as she gave him the same gifts for his journey : ` You have now three cakes and three napkins , for I know that my sisters have each given you one .
Listen to me , and do what I tell you .
Ride seven days and nights straight before you , and on the eighth morning you will see a great fire .
Strike it three times with the three napkins and it will part in two .
Then ride into the opening , and when you are in the middle of the opening , throw the three cakes behind your back with your left hand . '
Peter thanked her for her counsel , and was careful to do exactly all the old woman had told him .
On the eighth morning he reached a fire so large that he could see nothing else on either side , but when he struck it with the napkins it parted , and stood on each hand like a wall .
As he rode through the opening he threw the cakes behind him .
From each cake there sprang a huge dog , and he gave them the names of World 's - weight , Ironstrong , and Quick-ear .
They bayed with joy at the sight of him , and as Peter turned to pat them , he beheld Eisenkopf at the edge of the fire , but the opening had closed up behind Peter , and he could not get through .
` Stop , you promise-breaker , ' shrieked he ; ` you have slipped through my hands once , but wait till I catch you again ! '
Then he lay down by the fire and watched to see what would happen .
When Peter knew that he had nothing more to fear from Eisenkopf , he rode on slowly till he came to a small white house .
Here he entered and found himself in a room where a gray-haired woman was spinning and a beautiful girl was sitting in the window combing her golden hair .
` What brings you here , my son ? '
asked the old woman . '
I am seeking for a place , mother , ' answered Peter .
` Stay with me , then , for I need a servant , ' said the old woman .
` With pleasure , mother , ' replied he .
After that Peter 's life was a very happy one .
He sowed and ploughed all day , except now and then when he took his dogs and went to hunt .
And whatever game he brought back the maiden with the golden hair knew how to dress it .
One day the old woman had gone to the town to buy some flour , and Peter and the maiden were left alone in the house .
They fell into talk , and she asked him where his home was , and how he had managed to come through the fire .
Peter then told her the whole story , and of his striking the flames with the three napkins as he had been told to do .
The maiden listened attentively and wondered in herself whether what he said was true .
So after Peter had gone out to the fields , she crept up to his room and stole the napkins and then set off as fast as she could to the fire by a path she knew of over the hill .
At the third blow she gave the flames divided , and Eisenkopf , who had been watching and hoping for a chance of this kind , ran down the opening and stood before her .
At this sight the maiden was almost frightened to death , but with a great effort she recovered herself and ran home as fast as her legs would carry her , closely pursued by Eisenkopf .
Panting for breath she rushed into the house and fell fainting on the floor ; but Eisenkopf entered behind her , and hid himself in the kitchen under the hearth .
Not long after , Peter came in and picked up the three napkins which the maiden had dropped on the threshold .
He wondered how they got there , for he knew he had left them in his room ; but what was his horror when he saw the form of the fainting girl lying where she had dropped , as still and white as if she had been dead .
He lifted her up and carried her to her bed , where she soon revived , but she did not tell Peter about Eisenkopf , who had been almost crushed to death under the hearth-stone by the body of World 's - weight .
The next morning Peter locked up his dogs and went out into the forest alone .
Eisenkopf , however , had seen him go , and followed so closely at his heels that Peter had barely time to clamber up a tall tree , where Eisenkopf could not reach him .
` Come down at once , you gallows bird , ' he cried .
` Have you forgotten your promise that you never would marry ? '
` Oh , I know it is all up with me , ' answered Peter , ` but let me call out three times . '
` You can call a hundred times if you like , ' returned Eisenkopf , ` for now I have got you in my power , and you shall pay for what you have done . '
` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help ! '
cried Peter ; and Quick-ear heard , and said to his brothers : ` Listen , our master is calling us . '
` You are dreaming , fool , ' answered World 's - weight ; ` why he has not finished his breakfast . '
And he gave Quick-ear a slap with his paw , for he was young and needed to be taught sense .
` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help ! '
cried Peter again .
This time World 's - weight heard also , and he said , ` Ah , now our master is really calling . '
` How silly you are ! '
answered Iron-strong ; ` you know that at this hour he is always eating . '
And he gave World 's - weight a cuff , because he was old enough to know better .
Peter sat trembling on the tree dreading lest his dogs had never heard , or else that , having heard , they had refused to come .
It was his last chance , so making a mighty effort he shrieked once more : ` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help , or I am a dead man ! '
And Iron-strong heard , and said : ` Yes , he is certainly calling , we must go at once . '
And in an instant he had burst open the door , and all three were bounding away in the direction of the voice .
When they reached the foot of the tree Peter just said : ` At him ! '
And in a few minutes there was nothing left of Eisenkopf .
As soon as his enemy was dead Peter got down and returned to the house , where he bade farewell to the old woman and her daughter , who gave him a beautiful ring , all set with diamonds .
It was really a magic ring , but neither Peter nor the maiden knew that .
Peter 's heart was heavy as he set out for home .
He had ceased to love the wife whom he had left at his wedding feast , and his heart had gone out to the golden-haired girl .
However , it was no use thinking of that , so he rode forward steadily .
The fire had to be passed through before he had gone very far , and when he came to it , Peter shook the napkins three times in the flames and a passage opened for trim .
But then a curious thing happened ; the three dogs , who had followed at his heels all the way , now became three cakes again , which Peter put into his bag with the napkins .
After that he stopped at the houses of the three old women , and gave each one back her napkin and her cake .
` Where is my wife ? '
asked Peter , when he reached home .
` Oh , my dear son , why did you ever leave us ?
After you had vanished , no one knew where , your poor wife grew more and more wretched , and would neither eat nor drink .
Little by little she faded away , and a month ago we laid her in her grave , to hide her sorrows under the earth . '
At this news Peter began to weep , for he had loved his wife before he went away and had seen the golden-haired maiden .
He went sorrowfully about his work for the space of half a year , when , one night , he dreamed that he moved the diamond ring given him by the maiden from his right hand and put it on the wedding finger of the left .
The dream was so real that he awoke at once and changed the ring from one hand to the other .
And as he did so guess what he saw ?
Why , the golden-haired girl standing before him .
And he sprang up and kissed her , and said : ` Now you are mine for ever and ever , and when we die we will both be buried in one grave . '
And so they were .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Death Of Abu Nowas And Of His Wife Once upon a time there lived a man whose name was Abu Nowas , and he was a great favourite with the Sultan of the country , who had a palace in the same town where Abu Nowas dwelt .
One day Abu Nowas came weeping into the hall of the palace where the Sultan was sitting , and said to him : ` Oh , mighty Sultan , my wife is dead . '
` That is bad news , ' replied the Sultan ; ' I must get you another wife . '
And he bade his Grand Vizir send for the Sultana .
` This poor Abu Nowas has lost his wife , ' said he , when she entered the hall .
` Oh , then we must get him another , ' answered the Sultana ; ' I have a girl that will suit him exactly , ' and clapped her hands loudly .
At this signal a maiden appeared and stood before her . '
I have got a husband for you , ' said the Sultana .
` Who is he ? '
asked the girl .
` Abu Nowas , the jester , ' replied the Sultana . '
I will take him , ' answered the maiden ; and as Abu Nowas made no objection , it was all arranged .
The Sultana had the most beautiful clothes made for the bride , and the Sultan gave the bridegroom his wedding suit , and a thousand gold pieces into the bargain , and soft carpets for the house .
So Abu Nowas took his wife home , and for some time they were very happy , and spent the money freely which the Sultan had given them , never thinking what they should do for more when that was gone .
But come to an end it did , and they had to sell their fine things one by one , till at length nothing was left but a cloak apiece , and one blanket to cover them .
` We have run through our fortune , ' said Abu Nowas , ` what are we to do now ?
I am afraid to go back to the Sultan , for he will command his servants to turn me from the door .
But you shall return to your mistress , and throw yourself at her feet and weep , and perhaps she will help us . '
` Oh , you had much better go , ' said the wife . '
I shall not know what to say . '
` Well , then , stay at home , if you like , ' answered Abu Nowas , ` and I will ask to be admitted to the Sultan 's presence , and will tell him , with sobs , that my wife is dead , and that I have no money for her burial .
When he hears that perhaps he will give us something . '
` Yes , that is a good plan , ' said the wife ; and Abu Nowas set out .
The Sultan was sitting in the hall of justice when Abu Nowas entered , his eyes streaming with tears , for he had rubbed some pepper into them .
They smarted dreadfully , and he could hardly see to walk straight , and everyone wondered what was the matter with him .
` Abu Nowas !
What has happened ? '
cried the Sultan .
` Oh , noble Sultan , my wife is dead , ' wept he .
` We must all die , ' answered the Sultan ; but this was not the reply for which Abu Nowas had hoped .
` True , O Sultan , but I have neither shroud to wrap her in , nor money to bury her with , ' went on Abu Nowas , in no wise abashed by the way the Sultan had received his news .
` Well , give him a hundred pieces of gold , ' said the Sultan , turning to the Grand Vizir .
And when the money was counted out Abu Nowas bowed low , and left the hall , his tears still flowing , but with joy in his heart .
` Have you got anything ? '
cried his wife , who was waiting for him anxiously .
` Yes , a hundred gold pieces , ' said he , throwing down the bag , ` but that will not last us any time .
Now you must go to the Sultana , clothed in sackcloth and robes of mourning , and tell her that your husband , Abu Nowas , is dead , and you have no money for his burial .
When she hears that , she will be sure to ask you what has become of the money and the fine clothes she gave us on our marriage , and you will answer , `` before he died he sold everything . '' '
The wife did as she was told , and wrapping herself in sackcloth went up to the Sultana 's own palace , and as she was known to have been one of Subida 's favourite attendants , she was taken without difficulty into the private apartments .
` What is the matter ? '
inquired the Sultana , at the sight of the dismal figure .
` My husband lies dead at home , and he has spent all our money , and sold everything , and I have nothing left to bury him with , ' sobbed the wife .
Then Subida took up a purse containing two hundred gold pieces , and said : ` Your husband served us long and faithfully .
You must see that he has a fine funeral . '
The wife took the money , and , kissing the feet of the Sultana , she joyfully hastened home .
They spent some happy hours planning how they should spend it , and thinking how clever they had been .
` When the Sultan goes this evening to Subida 's palace , ' said Abu Nowas , ` she will be sure to tell him that Abu Nowas is dead .
`` Not Abu Nowas , it is his wife , '' he will reply , and they will quarrel over it , and all the time we shall be sitting here enjoying ourselves .
Oh , if they only knew , how angry they would be ! '
As Abu Nowas had foreseen , the Sultan went , in the evening after his business was over , to pay his usual visit to the Sultana .
` Poor Abu Nowas is dead ! '
said Subida when he entered the room .
` It is not Abu Nowas , but his wife who is dead , ' answered the Sultan .
` No ; really you are quite wrong .
She came to tell me herself only a couple of hours ago , ' replied Subida , ` and as he had spent all their money , I gave her something to bury him with . '
` You must be dreaming , ' exclaimed the Sultan .
` Soon after midday Abu Nowas came into the hall , his eyes streaming with tears , and when I asked him the reason he answered that his wife was dead , and they had sold everything they had , and he had nothing left , not so much as would buy her a shroud , far less for her burial . '
For a long time they talked , and neither would listen to the other , till the Sultan sent for the door-keeper and bade him go instantly to the house of Abu Nowas and see if it was the man or his wife who was dead .
But Abu Nowas happened to be sitting with his wife behind the latticed window , which looked on the street , and he saw the man coming , and sprang up at once .
` There is the Sultan 's door-keeper !
They have sent him here to find out the truth .
Quick !
throw yourself on the bed and pretend that you are dead . '
And in a moment the wife was stretched out stiffly , with a linen sheet spread across her , like a corpse .
She was only just in time , for the sheet was hardly drawn across her when the door opened and the porter came in .
` Has anything happened ? '
asked he .
` My poor wife is dead , ' replied Abu Nowas .
` Look !
she is laid out here . '
And the porter approached the bed , which was in a corner of the room , and saw the stiff form lying underneath .
` We must all die , ' said he , and went back to the Sultan .
` Well , have you found out which of them is dead ? '
asked the Sultan .
` Yes , noble Sultan ; it is the wife , ' replied the porter .
` He only says that to please you , ' cried Subida in a rage ; and calling to her chamberlain , she ordered him to go at once to the dwelling of Abu Nowas and see which of the two was dead .
` And be sure you tell the truth about it , ' added she , ` or it will be the worse for you . '
As her chamberlain drew near the house , Abu Nowas caught sight of him .
` There is the Sultana 's chamberlain , ' he exclaimed in a fright .
` Now it is my turn to die .
Be quick and spread the sheet over me . '
And he laid himself on the bed , and held his breath when the chamberlain came in .
` What are you weeping for ? '
asked the man , finding the wife in tears .
` My husband is dead , ' answered she , pointing to the bed ; and the chamberlain drew back the sheet and beheld Abu Nowas lying stiff and motionless .
Then he gently replaced the sheet and returned to the palace .
` Well , have you found out this time ? '
asked the Sultan .
` My lord , it is the husband who is dead . '
` But I tell you he was with me only a few hours ago , ' cried the Sultan angrily . '
I must get to the bottom of this before I sleep !
Let my golden coach be brought round at once . '
The coach was before the door in another five minutes , and the Sultan and Sultana both got in .
Abu Nowas had ceased being a dead man , and was looking into the street when he saw the coach coming .
` Quick !
quick ! '
he called to his wife .
` The Sultan will be here directly , and we must both be dead to receive him . '
So they laid themselves down , and spread the sheet over them , and held their breath .
At that instant the Sultan entered , followed by the Sultana and the chamberlain , and he went up to the bed and found the corpses stiff and motionless . '
I would give a thousand gold pieces to anyone who would tell me the truth about this , ' cried he , and at the words Abu Nowas sat up .
` Give them to me , then , ' said he , holding out his hand .
` You can not give them to anyone who needs them more . '
` Oh , Abu Nowas , you impudent dog ! '
exclaimed the Sultan , bursting into a laugh , in which the Sultana joined . '
I might have known it was one of your tricks ! '
But he sent Abu Nowas the gold he had promised , and let us hope that it did not fly so fast as the last had done .
-LSB- From Tunische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Motiratika Once upon a time , in a very hot country , a man lived with his wife in a little hut , which was surrounded by grass and flowers .
They were perfectly happy together till , by-and-by , the woman fell ill and refused to take any food .
The husband tried to persuade her to eat all sorts of delicious fruits that he had found in the forest , but she would have none of them , and grew so thin he feared she would die .
` Is there nothing you would like ? '
he said at last in despair .
` Yes , I think I could eat some wild honey , ' answered she .
The husband was overjoyed , for he thought this sounded easy enough to get , and he went off at once in search of it .
He came back with a wooden pan quite full , and gave it to his wife . '
I ca n't eat that , ' she said , turning away in disgust .
` Look !
there are some dead bees in it !
I want honey that is quite pure . '
And the man threw the rejected honey on the grass , and started off to get some fresh .
When he got back he offered it to his wife , who treated it as she had done the first bowlful .
` That honey has got ants in it : throw it away , ' she said , and when he brought her some more , she declared it was full of earth .
In his fourth journey he managed to find some that she would eat , and then she begged him to get her some water .
This took him some time , but at length he came to a lake whose waters were sweetened with sugar .
He filled a pannikin quite full , and carried it home to his wife , who drank it eagerly , and said that she now felt quite well .
When she was up and had dressed herself , her husband lay down in her place , saying : ` You have given me a great deal of trouble , and now it is my turn ! '
` What is the matter with you ? '
asked the wife . '
I am thirsty and want some water , ' answered he ; and she took a large pot and carried it to the nearest spring , which was a good way off .
` Here is the water , ' she said to her husband , lifting the heavy pot from her head ; but he turned away in disgust .
` You have drawn it from the pool that is full of frogs and willows ; you must get me some more . '
So the woman set out again and walked still further to another lake .
` This water tastes of rushes , ' he exclaimed , ` go and get some fresh . '
But when she brought back a third supply he declared that it seemed made up of water-lilies , and that he must have water that was pure , and not spoilt by willows , or frogs , or rushes .
So for the fourth time she put her jug on her head , and passing all the lakes she had hitherto tried , she came to another , where the water was golden like honey .
She stooped down to drink , when a horrible head bobbed up on the surface .
` How dare you steal my water ? '
cried the head .
` It is my husband who has sent me , ' she replied , trembling all over .
` But do not kill me !
You shall have my baby , if you will only let me go . '
` How am I to know which is your baby ? '
asked the Ogre .
` Oh , that is easily managed .
I will shave both sides of his head , and hang some white beads round his neck .
And when you come to the hut you have only to call `` Motikatika ! ''
and he will run to meet you , and you can eat him . '
` Very well , ' said the ogre , ` you can go home . '
And after filling the pot she returned , and told her husband of the dreadful danger she had been in .
Now , though his mother did not know it , the baby was a magician and he had heard all that his mother had promised the ogre ; and he laughed to himself as he planned how to outwit her .
The next morning she shaved his head on both sides , and hung the white beads round his neck , and said to him : ' I am going to the fields to work , but you must stay at home .
Be sure you do not go outside , or some wild beast may eat you . '
` Very well , ' answered he .
As soon as his mother was out of sight , the baby took out some magic bones , and placed them in a row before him .
` You are my father , ' he told one bone , ` and you are my mother .
You are the biggest , ' he said to the third , ` so you shall be the ogre who wants to eat me ; and you , ' to another , ` are very little , therefore you shall be me .
Now , then , tell me what I am to do . '
` Collect all the babies in the village the same size as yourself , ' answered the bones ; ` shave the sides of their heads , and hang white beads round their necks , and tell them that when anybody calls `` Motikatika , '' they are to answer to it .
And be quick for you have no time to lose . '
Motikatika went out directly , and brought back quite a crowd of babies , and shaved their heads and hung white beads round their little black necks , and just as he had finished , the ground began to shake , and the huge ogre came striding along , crying : ` Motikatika !
Motikatika ! '
` Here we are !
here we are ! '
answered the babies , all running to meet him .
` It is Motikatika I want , ' said the ogre .
` We are all Motikatika , ' they replied .
And the ogre sat down in bewilderment , for he dared not eat the children of people who had done him no wrong , or a heavy punishment would befall him .
The children waited for a little , wondering , and then they went away .
The ogre remained where he was , till the evening , when the woman returned from the fields . '
I have not seen Motikatika , ' said he .
` But why did you not call him by his name , as I told you ? '
she asked . '
I did , but all the babies in the village seemed to be named Motikatika , ' answered the ogre ; ` you can not think the number who came running to me . '
The woman did not know what to make of it , so , to keep him in a good temper , she entered the hut and prepared a bowl of maize , which she brought him . '
I do not want maize , I want the baby , ' grumbled he ` and I will have him . '
` Have patience , ' answered she ; ' I will call him , and you can eat him at once . '
And she went into the hut and cried , ` Motikatika ! ' '
I am coming , mother , ' replied he ; but first he took out his bones , and , crouching down on the ground behind the hut , asked them how he should escape the ogre .
` Change yourself into a mouse , ' said the bones ; and so he did , and the ogre grew tired of waiting , and told the woman she must invent some other plan .
` To-morrow I will send him into the field to pick some beans for me , and you will find him there , and can eat him . '
` Very well , ' replied the ogre , ` and this time I will take care to have him , ' and he went back to his lake .
Next morning Motikatika was sent out with a basket , and told to pick some beans for dinner .
On the way to the field he took out his bones and asked them what he was to do to escape from the ogre .
` Change yourself into a bird and snap off the beans , ' said the bones .
And the ogre chased away the bird , not knowing that it was Motikatika .
The ogre went back to the hut and told the woman that she had deceived him again , and that he would not be put off any longer .
` Return here this evening , ' answered she , ` and you will find him in bed under this white coverlet .
Then you can carry him away , and eat him at once . '
But the boy heard , and consulted his bones , which said : ` Take the red coverlet from your father 's bed , and put yours on his , ' and so he did .
And when the ogre came , he seized Motikatika 's father and carried him outside the hut and ate him .
When his wife found out the mistake , she cried bitterly ; but Motikatika said : ` It is only just that he should be eaten , and not I ; for it was he , and not I , who sent you to fetch the water . '
-LSB- Adapted from the Ba-Ronga -LRB- H. Junod -RRB- . -RSB-
Niels And The Giants On one of the great moors over in Jutland , where trees wo n't grow because the soil is so sandy and the wind so strong , there once lived a man and his wife , who had a little house and some sheep , and two sons who helped them to herd them .
The elder of the two was called Rasmus , and the younger Niels .
Rasmus was quite content to look after sheep , as his father had done before him , but Niels had a fancy to be a hunter , and was not happy till he got hold of a gun and learned to shoot .
It was only an old muzzle-loading flint-lock after all , but Niels thought it a great prize , and went about shooting at everything he could see .
So much did he practice that in the long run he became a wonderful shot , and was heard of even where he had never been seen .
Some people said there was very little in him beyond this , but that was an idea they found reason to change in the course of time .
The parents of Rasmus and Niels were good Catholics , and when they were getting old the mother took it into her head that she would like to go to Rome and see the Pope .
The others did n't see much use in this , but she had her way in the end : they sold all the sheep , shut up the house , and set out for Rome on foot .
Niels took his gun with him .
` What do you want with that ? '
said Rasmus ; ` we have plenty to carry without it . '
But Niels could not be happy without his gun , and took it all the same .
It was in the hottest part of summer that they began their journey , so hot that they could not travel at all in the middle of the day , and they were afraid to do it by night lest they might lose their way or fall into the hands of robbers .
One day , a little before sunset , they came to an inn which lay at the edge of a forest .
` We had better stay here for the night , ' said Rasmus .
` What an idea ! '
said Niels , who was growing impatient at the slow progress they were making .
` We ca n't travel by day for the heat , and we remain where we are all night .
It will be long enough before we get to Rome if we go on at this rate . '
Rasmus was unwilling to go on , but the two old people sided with Niels , who said , ` The nights are n't dark , and the moon will soon be up .
We can ask at the inn here , and find out which way we ought to take . '
So they held on for some time , but at last they came to a small opening in the forest , and here they found that the road split in two .
There was no sign-post to direct them , and the people in the inn had not told them which of the two roads to take .
` What 's to be done now ? '
said Rasmus . '
I think we had better have stayed at the inn . '
` There 's no harm done , ' said Niels .
` The night is warm , and we can wait here till morning .
One of us will keep watch till midnight , and then waken the other . '
Rasmus chose to take the first watch , and the others lay down to sleep .
It was very quiet in the forest , and Rasmus could hear the deer and foxes and other animals moving about among the rustling leaves .
After the moon rose he could see them occasionally , and when a big stag came quite close to him he got hold of Niels ' gun and shot it .
Niels was wakened by the report .
` What 's that ? '
he said .
` I 've just shot a stag , ' said Rasmus , highly pleased with himself .
` That 's nothing , ' said Niels .
` I 've often shot a sparrow , which is a much more difficult thing to do . '
It was now close on midnight , so Niels began his watch , and Rasmus went to sleep .
It began to get colder , and Niels began to walk about a little to keep himself warm .
He soon found that they were not far from the edge of the forest , and when he climbed up one of the trees there he could see out over the open country beyond .
At a little distance he saw a fire , and beside it there sat three giants , busy with broth and beef .
They were so huge that the spoons they used were as large as spades , and their forks as big as hay-forks : with these they lifted whole bucketfuls of broth and great joints of meat out of an enormous pot which was set on the ground between them .
Niels was startled and rather scared at first , but he comforted himself with the thought that the giants were a good way off , and that if they came nearer he could easily hide among the bushes .
After watching them for a little , however , he began to get over his alarm , and finally slid down the tree again , resolved to get his gun and play some tricks with them .
When he had climbed back to his former position , he took good aim , and waited till one of the giants was just in the act of putting a large piece of meat into his mouth .
Bang !
went Niels ' gun , and the bullet struck the handle of the fork so hard that the point went into the giant 's chin , instead of his mouth .
` None of your tricks , ' growled the giant to the one who sat next him .
` What do you mean by hitting my fork like that , and making me prick myself ? ' '
I never touched your fork , ' said the other .
` Do n't try to get up a quarrel with me . '
` Look at it , then , ' said the first .
` Do you suppose I stuck it into my own chin for fun ? '
The two got so angry over the matter that each offered to fight the other there and then , but the third giant acted as peace-maker , and they again fell to their eating .
While the quarrel was going on , Niels had loaded the gun again , and just as the second giant was about to put a nice tit-bit into his mouth , bang !
went the gun again , and the fork flew into a dozen pieces .
This giant was even more furious than the first had been , and words were just coming to blows , when the third giant again interposed .
` Do n't be fools , ' he said to them ; ` what 's the good of beginning to fight among ourselves , when it is so necessary for the three of us to work together and get the upper hand over the king of this country .
It will be a hard enough task as it is , but it will be altogether hopeless if we do n't stick together .
Sit down again , and let us finish our meal ; I shall sit between you , and then neither of you can blame the other . '
Niels was too far away to hear their talk , but from their gestures he could guess what was happening , and thought it good fun .
` Thrice is lucky , ' said he to himself ; ` I 'll have another shot yet . '
This time it was the third giant 's fork that caught the bullet , and snapped in two .
` Well , ' said he , ` if I were as foolish as you two , I would also fly into a rage , but I begin to see what time of day it is , and I 'm going off this minute to see who it is that 's playing these tricks with us . '
So well had the giant made his observations , that though Niels climbed down the tree as fast as he could , so as to hide among the bushes , he had just got to the ground when the enemy was upon him .
` Stay where you are , ' said the giant , ` or I 'll put my foot on you , and there wo n't be much of you left after that . '
Niels gave in , and the giant carried him back to his comrades .
` You do n't deserve any mercy at our hands , ' said his captor ` but as you are such a good shot you may be of great use to us , so we shall spare your life , if you will do us a service .
Not far from here there stands a castle , in which the king 's daughter lives ; we are at war with the king , and want to get the upper hand of him by carrying off the princess , but the castle is so well guarded that there is no getting into it .
By our skill in magic we have cast sleep on every living thing in the castle , except a little black dog , and , as long as he is awake , we are no better off than before ; for , as soon as we begin to climb over the wall , the little dog will hear us , and its barking will waken all the others again .
Having got you , we can place you where you will be able to shoot the dog before it begins to bark , and then no one can hinder us from getting the princess into our hands .
If you do that , we shall not only let you off , but reward you handsomely . '
Niels had to consent , and the giants set out for the castle at once .
It was surrounded by a very high rampart , so high that even the giants could not touch the top of it .
` How am I to get over that ? '
said Niels .
` Quite easily , ' said the third giant ; ` I 'll throw you up on it . '
` No , thanks , ' said Niels . '
I might fall down on the other side , or break my leg or neck , and then the little dog would n't get shot after all . '
` No fear of that , ' said the giant ; ` the rampart is quite wide on the top , and covered with long grass , so that you will come down as softly as though you fell on a feather-bed . '
Niels had to believe him , and allowed the giant to throw him up .
He came down on his feet quite unhurt , but the little black dog heard the dump , and rushed out of its kennel at once .
It was just opening its mouth to bark , when Niels fired , and it fell dead on the spot .
` Go down on the inside now , ' said the giant , ` and see if you can open the gate to us . '
Niels made his way down into the courtyard , but on his way to the outer gate he found himself at the entrance to the large hall of the castle .
The door was open , and the hall was brilliantly lighted , though there was no one to be seen .
Niels went in here and looked round him : on the wall there hung a huge sword without a sheath , and beneath it was a large drinking-horn , mounted with silver .
Niels went closer to look at these , and saw that the horn had letters engraved on the silver rim : when he took it down and turned it round , he found that the inscription was : -- Whoever drinks the wine I hold Can wield the sword that hangs above ; Then let him use it for the right , And win a royal maiden 's love .
Niels took out the silver stopper of the horn , and drank some of the wine , but when he tried to take down the sword he found himself unable to move it .
So he hung up the horn again , and went further in to the castle .
` The giants can wait a little , ' he said .
Before long he came to an apartment in which a beautiful princess lay asleep in a bed , and on a table by her side there lay a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
Niels tore this in two , and put one half in his pocket , leaving the other half on the table .
On the floor he saw a pair of gold-embroidered slippers , and one of these he also put in his pocket .
After that he went back to the hall , and took down the horn again .
` Perhaps I have to drink all that is in it before I can move the sword , ' he thought ; so he put it to his lips again and drank till it was quite empty .
When he had done this , he could wield the sword with the greatest of ease , and felt himself strong enough to do anything , even to fight the giants he had left outside , who were no doubt wondering why he had not opened the gate to them before this time .
To kill the giants , he thought , would be using the sword for the right ; but as to winning the love of the princess , that was a thing which the son of a poor sheep-farmer need not hope for .
When Niels came to the gate of the castle , he found that there was a large door and a small one , so he opened the latter .
` Ca n't you open the big door ? '
said the giants ; ` we shall hardly be able to get in at this one . '
` The bars are too heavy for me to draw , ' said Niels ; ` if you stoop a little you can quite well come in here . '
The first giant accordingly bent down and entered in a stooping posture , but before he had time to straighten his back again Niels made a sweep with the sword , and oft went the giant 's head .
To push the body aside as it fell was quite easy for Niels , so strong had the wine made him , and the second giant as he entered met the same reception .
The third was slower in coming , so Niels called out to him : ` Be quick , ' he said , ` you are surely the oldest of the three , since you are so slow in your movements , but I ca n't wait here long ; I must get back to my own people as soon as possible . '
So the third also came in , and was served in the same way .
It appears from the story that giants were not given fair play !
By this time day was beginning to break , and Niels thought that his folks might already be searching for him , so , instead of waiting to see what took place at the castle , he ran off to the forest as fast as he could , taking the sword with him .
He found the others still asleep , so he woke them up , and they again set out on their journey .
Of the night 's adventures he said not a word , and when they asked where he got the sword , he only pointed in the direction of the castle , and said , ` Over that way . '
They thought he had found it , and asked no more questions .
When Niels left the castle , he shut the door behind him , and it closed with such a bang that the porter woke up .
He could scarcely believe his eyes when he saw the three headless giants lying in a heap in the courtyard , and could not imagine what had taken place .
The whole castle was soon aroused , and then everybody wondered at the affair : it was soon seen that the bodies were those of the king 's great enemies , but how they came to be there and in that condition was a perfect mystery .
Then it was noticed that the drinking-horn was empty and the sword gone , while the princess reported that half of her handkerchief and one of her slippers had been taken away .
How the giants had been killed seemed a little clearer now , but who had done it was as great a puzzle as before .
The old knight who had charge of the castle said that in his opinion it must have been some young knight , who had immediately set off to the king to claim the hand of the princess .
This sounded likely , but the messenger who was sent to the Court returned with the news that no one there knew anything about the matter .
` We must find him , however , ' said the princess ; ` for if he is willing to marry me I can not in honour refuse him , after what my father put on the horn . '
She took council with her father 's wisest men as to what ought to be done , and among other things they advised her to build a house beside the highway , and put over the door this inscription : -- ` Whoever will tell the story of his life , may stay here three nights for nothing . '
This was done , and many strange tales were told to the princess , but none of the travellers said a word about the three giants .
In the meantime Niels and the others tramped on towards Rome .
Autumn passed , and winter was just beginning when they came to the foot of a great range of mountains , towering up to the sky .
` Must we go over these ? '
said they .
` We shall be frozen to death or buried in the snow . '
` Here comes a man , ' said Niels ; ` let us ask him the way to Rome . '
They did so , and were told that there was no other way .
` And is it far yet ? '
said the old people , who were beginning to be worn out by the long journey .
The man held up his foot so that they could see the sole of his shoe ; it was worn as thin as paper , and there was a hole in the middle of it .
` These shoes were quite new when I left Rome , ' he said , ` and look at them now ; that will tell you whether you are far from it or not . '
This discouraged the old people so much that they gave up all thought of finishing the journey , and only wished to get back to Denmark as quickly as they could .
What with the winter and bad roads they took longer to return than they had taken to go , but in the end they found themselves in sight of the forest where they had slept before .
` What 's this ? '
said Rasmus .
` Here 's a big house built since we passed this way before . '
` So it is , ' said Peter ; ` let 's stay all night in it . '
` No , we ca n't afford that , ' said the old people ; ` it will be too dear for the like of us . '
However , when they saw what was written above the door , they were all well pleased to get a night 's lodging for nothing .
They were well received , and had so much attention given to them , that the old people were quite put out by it .
After they had got time to rest themselves , the princess 's steward came to hear their story .
` You saw what was written above the door , ' he said to the father .
` Tell me who you are and what your history has been . '
` Dear me , I have nothing of any importance to tell you , ' said the old man , ` and I am sure we should never have made so bold as to trouble you at all if it had n't been for the youngest of our two sons here . '
` Never mind that , ' said the steward ; ` you are very welcome if you will only tell me the story of your life . '
` Well , well , I will , ' said he , ` but there is nothing to tell about it .
I and my wife have lived all our days on a moor in North Jutland , until this last year , when she took a fancy to go to Rome .
We set out with our two sons but turned back long before we got there , and are now on our way home again .
That 's all my own story , and our two sons have lived with us all their days , so there is nothing more to be told about them either . '
` Yes there is , ' said Rasmus ; ` when we were on our way south , we slept in the wood near here one night , and I shot a stag . '
The steward was so much accustomed to hearing stories of no importance that he thought there was no use going further with this , but reported to the princess that the newcomers had nothing to tell .
` Did you question them all ? '
she said .
` Well , no ; not directly , ' said he ; ` but the father said that none of them could tell me any more than he had done . '
` You are getting careless , ' said the princess ; ' I shall go and talk to them myself . '
Niels knew the princess again as soon as she entered the room , and was greatly alarmed , for he immediately supposed that all this was a device to discover the person who had run away with the sword , the slipper and the half of the handkerchief , and that it would fare badly with him if he were discovered .
So he told his story much the same as the others did -LRB- Niels was not very particular -RRB- , and thought he had escaped all further trouble , when Rasmus put in his word .
` You 've forgotten something , Niels , ' he said ; ` you remember you found a sword near here that night I shot the stag . '
` Where is the sword ? '
said the princess . '
I know , ' said the steward , ' I saw where he laid it down when they came in ; ' and off he went to fetch it , while Niels wondered whether he could make his escape in the meantime .
Before he had made up his mind , however , the steward was back with the sword , which the princess recognised at once .
` Where did you get this ? '
she said to Niels .
Niels was silent , and wondered what the usual penalty was for a poor sheep-farmer 's son who was so unfortunate as to deliver a princess and carry off things from her bed-room .
` See what else he has about him , ' said the princess to the steward , and Niels had to submit to be searched : out of one pocket came a gold-embroidered slipper , and out of another the half of a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
` That is enough , ' said the princess ; ` now we need n't ask any more questions .
Send for my father the king at once . '
` Please let me go , ' said Niels ; ' I did you as much good as harm , at any rate . '
` Why , who said anything about doing harm ? '
said the princess .
` You must stay here till my father comes . '
The way in which the princess smiled when she said this gave Niels some hope that things might not be bad for him after all , and he was yet more encouraged when he thought of the words engraver on the horn , though the last line still seemed too good to be true .
However , the arrival of the king soon settled the matter : the princess was willing and so was Niels , and in a few days the wedding bells were ringing .
Niels was made an earl by that time , and looked as handsome as any of them when dressed in all his robes .
Before long the old king died , and Niels reigned after him ; but whether his father and mother stayed with him , or went back to the moor in Jutland , or were sent to Rome in a carriage and four , is something that all the historians of his reign have forgotten to mention .
Shepherd Paul Once upon a time a shepherd was taking his flock out to pasture , when he found a little baby lying in a meadow , left there by some wicked person , who thought it was too much trouble to look after it .
The shepherd was fond of children , so he took the baby home with him and gave it plenty of milk , and by the time the boy was fourteen he could tear up oaks as if they were weeds .
Then Paul , as the shepherd had called him , grew tired of living at home , and went out into the world to try his luck .
He walked on for many miles , seeing nothing that surprised him , but in an open space of the wood he was astonished at finding a man combing trees as another man would comb flax .
` Good morning , friend , ' said Paul ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong man ! '
The man stopped his work and laughed . '
I am Tree Comber , ' he answered proudly ; ` and the greatest wish of my life is to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wishes be fulfilled as easily , for I am Shepherd Paul , and can wrestle with you at once , ' replied the lad ; and he seized Tree Comber and flung him with such force to the ground that he sank up to his knees in the earth .
However , in a moment he was up again , and catching hold of Paul , threw him so that he sank up to his waist ; but then it was Paul 's turn again , and this time the man was buried up to his neck .
` That is enough , ' cried he ; ' I see you are a smart fellow , let us become friends . '
` Very good , ' answered Paul , and they continued their journey together .
By-and-by they reached a man who was grinding stones to powder in his hands , as if they had been nuts .
` Good morning , ' said Paul politely ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong fellow ! ' '
I am Stone Crusher , ' answered the man , and the greatest wish of my life is to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wishes be as easily fulfilled , for I am Shepherd Paul , and will wrestle with you at once , ' and the sport began .
After a short time the man declared himself beaten , and begged leave to go with them ; so they all three travelled together .
A little further on they came upon a man who was kneading iron as if it had been dough .
` Good morning , ' said Paul , ` you must be a strong fellow . ' '
I am Iron Kneader , and should like to fight Shepherd Paul , ' answered he .
` Let us begin at once then , ' replied Paul ; and on this occasion also , Paul got the better of his foe , and they all four continued their journey .
At midday they entered a forest , and Paul stopped suddenly .
` We three will go and look for game , ' he said , ` and you , Tree Comber , will stay behind and prepare a good supper for us . '
So Tree Comber set to work to boil and roast , and when dinner was nearly ready , a little dwarf with a pointed beard strolled up to the place .
` What are you cooking ? '
asked he , ` give me some of it . '
` I 'll give you some on your back , if you like , ' answered Tree Comber rudely .
The dwarf took no notice , but waited patiently till the dinner was cooked , then suddenly throwing Tree Comber on the ground , he ate up the contents of the saucepan and vanished .
Tree Comber felt rather ashamed of himself , and set about boiling some more vegetables , but they were still very hard when the hunters returned , and though they complained of his bad cooking , he did not tell them about the dwarf .
Next day Stone Crusher was left behind , and after him Iron Kneader , and each time the dwarf appeared , and they fared no better than Tree Comber had done .
The fourth day Paul said to them : ` My friends , there must be some reason why your cooking has always been so bad , now you shall go and hunt and I will stay behind . '
So they went off , amusing themselves by thinking what was in store for Paul .
He set to work at once , and had just got all his vegetables simmering in the pot when the dwarf appeared as before , and asked to have some of the stew .
` Be off , ' cried Paul , snatching up the saucepan as he spoke .
The dwarf tried to get hold of his collar , but Paul seized him by the beard , and tied him to a big tree so that he could not stir , and went on quietly with his cooking .
The hunters came back early , longing to see how Paul had got on , and , to their surprise , dinner was quite ready for them .
` You are great useless creatures , ' said he , ` who could n't even outwit that little dwarf .
When we have finished supper I will show you what I have done with him ! '
But when they reached the place where Paul had left the dwarf , neither he nor the tree was to be seen , for the little fellow had pulled it up by the roots and run away , dragging it after him .
The four friends followed the track of the tree and found that it ended in a deep hole .
` He must have gone down here , ' said Paul , ` and I will go after him .
See !
there is a basket that will do for me to sit in , and a cord to lower me with .
But when I pull the cord again , lose no time in drawing the basket up . '
And he stepped into the basket , which was lowered by his friends .
At last it touched the ground and he jumped out and looked about him .
He was in a beautiful valley , full of meadows and streams , with a splendid castle standing by .
As the door was open he walked in , but a lovely maiden met him and implored him to go back , for the owner of the castle was a dragon with six heads , who had stolen her from her home and brought her down to this underground spot .
But Paul refused to listen to all her entreaties , and declared that he was not afraid of the dragon , and did not care how many heads he had ; and he sat down calmly to wait for him .
In a little while the dragon came in , and all the long teeth in his six heads chattered with anger at the sight of the stranger . '
I am Shepherd Paul , ' said the young man , ` and I have come to fight you , and as I am in a hurry we had better begin at once . '
` Very good , ' answered the dragon . '
I am sure of my supper , but let us have a mouthful of something first , just to give us an appetite . '
Whereupon he began to eat some huge boulders as if they had been cakes , and when he had quite finished , he offered Paul one .
Paul was not fond of boulders , but he took a wooden knife and cut one in two , then he snatched up both halves in his hands and threw them with all his strength at the dragon , so that two out of the six heads were smashed in .
At this the dragon , with a mighty roar , rushed upon Paul , but he sprang on one side , and with a swinging blow cut off two of the other heads .
Then , seizing the monster by the neck , he dashed the remaining heads against the rock .
When the maiden heard that the dragon was dead , she thanked her deliverer with tears in her eyes , but told him that her two younger sisters were in the power of dragons still fiercer and more horrible than this one .
He vowed that his sword should never rest in its sheath till they were set free , and bade the girl come with him , and show him the way .
The maiden gladly consented to go with him , but first she gave him a golden rod , and bade him strike the castle with it .
He did so , and it instantly changed into a golden apple , which he put in his pocket .
After that , they started on their search .
They had not gone far before they reached the castle where the second girl was confined by the power of the dragon with twelve heads , who had stolen her from her home .
She was overjoyed at the sight of her sister and of Paul , and brought him a shirt belonging to the dragon , which made every one who wore it twice as strong as they were before .
Scarcely had he put it on when the dragon came back , and the fight began .
Long and hard was the struggle , but Paul 's sword and his shirt helped him , and the twelve heads lay dead upon the ground .
Then Paul changed the castle into an apple , which he put into his pocket , and set out with the two girls in search of the third castle .
It was not long before they found it , and within the walls was the third sister , who was younger and prettier than either of the other two .
Her husband had eighteen heads , but when he quitted the lower regions for the surface of the earth , he left them all at home except one , which he changed for the head of a little dwarf , with a pointed beard .
The moment that Paul knew that this terrible dragon was no other than the dwarf whom he had tied to the tree , he longed more than ever to fly at his throat .
But the thought of the eighteen heads warned him to be careful , and the third sister brought him a silk shirt which would make him ten times stronger than he was before .
He had scarcely put it on , when the whole castle began to shake violently , and the dragon flew up the steps into the hall .
` Well , my friend , so we meet once more !
Have you forgotten me ?
I am Shepherd Paul , and I have come to wrestle with you , and to free your wife from your clutches . '
` Ah , I am glad to see you again , ' said the dragon .
` Those were my two brothers whom you killed , and now your blood shall pay for them . '
And he went into his room to look for his shirt and to drink some magic wine , but the shirt was on Paul 's back , and as for the wine , the girl had given a cupful to Paul and then had allowed the rest to run out of the cask .
At this the dragon grew rather frightened , but in a moment had recollected his eighteen heads , and was bold again .
` Come on , ' he cried , rearing himself up and preparing to dart all his heads at once at Paul .
But Paul jumped underneath , and gave an upward cut so that six of the heads went rolling down .
They were the best heads too , and very soon the other twelve lay beside them .
Then Paul changed the castle into an apple , and put it in his pocket .
Afterwards he and the three girls set off for the opening which led upwards to the earth .
The basket was still there , dangling from the rope , but it was only big enough to hold the three girls , so Paul sent them up , and told them to be sure and let down the basket for him .
Unluckily , at the sight of the maidens ' beauty , so far beyond anything they had ever seen , the friends forgot all about Paul , and carried the girls straight away into a far country , so that they were not much better off than before .
Meanwhile Paul , mad with rage at the ingratitude of the three sisters , vowed he would be revenged upon them , and set about finding some way of getting back to earth .
But it was not very easy , and for months , and months , and months , he wandered about underground , and , at the end , seemed no nearer to fulfilling his purpose than he was at the beginning .
At length , one day , he happened to pass the nest of a huge griffin , who had left her young ones all alone .
Just as Paul came along a cloud containing fire instead of rain burst overhead , and all the little griffins would certainly have been killed had not Paul spread his cloak over the nest and saved them .
When their father returned the young ones told him what Paul had done , and he lost no time in flying after Paul , and asking how he could reward him for his goodness .
` By carrying me up to the earth , ' answered Paul ; and the griffin agreed , but first went to get some food to eat on the way , as it was a long journey .
` Now get on my back , ' he said to Paul , ` and when I turn my head to the right , cut a slice off the bullock that hangs on that side , and put it in my mouth , and when I turn my head to the left , draw a cupful of wine from the cask that hangs on that side , and pour it down my throat . '
For three days and three nights Paul and the griffin flew upwards , and on the fourth morning it touched the ground just outside the city where Paul 's friends had gone to live .
Then Paul thanked him and bade him farewell , and he returned home again .
At first Paul was too tired to do anything but sleep , but as soon as he was rested he started off in search of the three faithless ones , who almost died from fright at the sight of him , for they had thought he would never come back to reproach them for their wickedness .
` You know what to expect , ' Paul said to them quietly .
` You shall never see me again .
Off with you ! '
He next took the three apples out of his pocket and placed them all in the prettiest places he could find ; after which he tapped them with his golden rod , and they became castles again .
He gave two of the castles to the eldest sisters , and kept the other for himself and the youngest , whom he married , and there they are living still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How The Wicked Tanuki Was Punished The hunters had hunted the wood for so many years that no wild animal was any more to be found in it .
You might walk from one end to the other without ever seeing a hare , or a deer , or a boar , or hearing the cooing of the doves in their nest .
If they were not dead , they had flown elsewhere .
Only three creatures remained alive , and they had hidden themselves in the thickest part of the forest , high up the mountain .
These were a grey-furred , long-tailed tanuki , his wife the fox , who was one of his own family , and their little son .
The fox and the tanuki were very clever , prudent beasts , and they also were skilled in magic , and by this means had escaped the fate of their unfortunate friends .
If they heard the twang of an arrow or saw the glitter of a spear , ever so far off , they lay very still , and were not to be tempted from their hiding-place , if their hunger was ever so great , or the game ever so delicious .
` We are not so foolish as to risk our lives , ' they said to each other proudly .
But at length there came a day when , in spite of their prudence , they seemed likely to die of starvation , for no more food was to be had .
Something had to be done , but they did not know what .
Suddenly a bright thought struck the tanuki . '
I have got a plan , ' he cried joyfully to his wife . '
I will pretend to be dead , and you must change yourself into a man , and take me to the village for sale .
It will be easy to find a buyer , tanukis ' skins are always wanted ; then buy some food with the money and come home again .
I will manage to escape somehow , so do not worry about me . '
The fox laughed with delight , and rubbed her paws together with satisfaction .
` Well , next time I will go , ' she said , ` and you can sell me . '
And then she changed herself into a man , and picking up the stiff body of the tanuki , set off towards the village .
She found him rather heavy , but it would never have done to let him walk through the wood and risk his being seen by somebody .
As the tanaki had foretold , buyers were many , and the fox handed him over to the person who offered the largest price , and hurried to get some food with the money .
The buyer took the tanuki back to his house , and throwing him into a corner went out .
Directly the tanaki found he was alone , he crept cautiously through a chink of the window , thinking , as he did so , how lucky it was that he was not a fox , and was able to climb .
Once outside , he hid himself in a ditch till it grew dusk , and then galloped away into the forest .
While the food lasted they were all three as happy as kings ; but there soon arrived a day when the larder was as empty as ever .
` It is my turn now to pretend to be dead , ' cried the fox .
So the tanuki changed himself into a peasant , and started for the village , with his wife 's body hanging over his shoulder .
A buyer was not long in coming forward , and while they were making the bargain a wicked thought darted into the tanuki 's head , that if he got rid of the fox there would be more food for him and his son .
So as he put the money in his pocket he whispered softly to the buyer that the fox was not really dead , and that if he did not take care she might run away from him .
The man did not need twice telling .
He gave the poor fox a blow on the head , which put an end to her , and the wicked tanuki went smiling to the nearest shop .
In former times he had been very fond of his little son ; but since he had betrayed his wife he seemed to have changed all in a moment , for he would not give him as much as a bite , and the poor little fellow would have starved had he not found some nuts and berries to eat , and he waited on , always hoping that his mother would come back .
At length some notion of the truth began to dawn on him ; but he was careful to let the old tanuki see nothing , though in his own mind he turned over plans from morning till night , wondering how best he might avenge his mother .
One morning , as the little tanuki was sitting with his father , he remembered , with a start , that his mother had taught him all she knew of magic , and that he could work spells as well as his father , or perhaps better . '
I am as good a wizard as you , ' he said suddenly , and a cold chill ran through the tanuki as he heard him , though he laughed , and pretended to think it a joke .
But the little tanaki stuck to his point , and at last the father proposed they should have a wager .
` Change yourself into any shape you like , ' said he , ` and I will undertake to know you .
I will go and wait on the bridge which leads over the river to the village , and you shall transform yourself into anything you please , but I will know you through any disguise . '
The little tanuki agreed , and went down the road which his father had pointed out .
But instead of transforming himself into a different shape , he just hid himself in a corner of the bridge , where he could see without being seen .
He had not been there long when his father arrived and took up his place near the middle of the bridge , and soon after the king came by , followed by a troop of guards and all his court .
` Ah !
he thinks that now he has changed himself into a king I shall not know him , ' thought the old tanuki , and as the king passed in his splendid carriage , borne by his servants , he jumped upon it crying : ' I have won my wager ; you can not deceive me . '
But in reality it was he who had deceived himself .
The soldiers , conceiving that their king was being attacked , seized the tanuki by the legs and flung him over into the river , and the water closed over him .
And the little tanoki saw it all , and rejoiced that his mother 's death had been avenged .
Then he went back to the forest , and if he has not found it too lonely , he is probably living there still .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Crab And The Monkey There was once a crab who lived in a hole on the shady side of a mountain .
She was a very good housewife , and so careful and industrious that there was no creature in the whole country whose hole was so neat and clean as hers , and she took great pride in it .
One day she saw lying near the mouth of her hole a handful of cooked rice which some pilgrim must have let fall when he was stopping to eat his dinner .
Delighted at this discovery , she hastened to the spot , and was carrying the rice back to her hole when a monkey , who lived in some trees near by , came down to see what the crab was doing .
His eyes shone at the sight of the rice , for it was his favourite food , and like the sly fellow he was , he proposed a bargain to the crab .
She was to give him half the rice in exchange for the kernel of a sweet red kaki fruit which he had just eaten .
He half expected that the crab would laugh in his face at this impudent proposal , but instead of doing so she only looked at him for a moment with her head on one side and then said that she would agree to the exchange .
So the monkey went off with his rice , and the crab returned to her hole with the kernel .
For some time the crab saw no more of the monkey , who had gone to pay a visit on the sunny side of the mountain ; but one morning he happened to pass by her hole , and found her sitting under the shadow of a beautiful kaki tree .
` Good day , ' he said politely , ` you have some very fine fruit there !
I am very hungry , could you spare me one or two ? '
` Oh , certainly , ' replied the crab , ` but you must forgive me if I can not get them for you myself .
I am no tree-climber . '
` Pray do not apologise , ' answered the monkey .
` Now that I have your permission I can get them myself quite easily . '
And the crab consented to let him go up , merely saying that he must throw her down half the fruit .
In another moment he was swinging himself from branch to branch , eating all the ripest kakis and filling his pockets with the rest , and the poor crab saw to her disgust that the few he threw down to her were either not ripe at all or else quite rotten .
` You are a shocking rogue , ' she called in a rage ; but the monkey took no notice , and went on eating as fast as he could .
The crab understood that it was no use her scolding , so she resolved to try what cunning would do .
` Sir Monkey , ' she said , ` you are certainly a very good climber , but now that you have eaten so much , I am quite sure you would never be able to turn one of your somersaults . '
The monkey prided himself on turning better somersaults than any of his family , so he instantly went head over heels three times on the bough on which he was sitting , and all the beautiful kakis that he had in his pockets rolled to the ground .
Quick as lightning the crab picked them up and carried a quantity of them into her house , but when she came up for another the monkey sprang on her , and treated her so badly that he left her for dead .
When he had beaten her till his arm ached he went his way .
It was a lucky thing for the poor crab that she had some friends to come to her help or she certainly would have died then and there .
The wasp flew to her , and took her back to bed and looked after her , and then he consulted with a rice-mortar and an egg which had fallen out of a nest near by , and they agreed that when the monkey returned , as he was sure to do , to steal the rest of the fruit , that they would punish him severely for the manner in which he had behaved to the crab .
So the mortar climbed up to the beam over the front door , and the egg lay quite still on the ground , while the wasp set down the water-bucket in a corner .
Then the crab dug itself a deep hole in the ground , so that not even the tip of her claws might be seen .
Soon after everything was ready the monkey jumped down from his tree , and creeping to the door began a long hypocritical speech , asking pardon for all he had done .
He waited for an answer of some sort , but none came .
He listened , but all was still ; then he peeped , and saw no one ; then he went in .
He peered about for the crab , but in vain ; however , his eyes fell on the egg , which he snatched up and set on the fire .
But in a moment the egg had burst into a thousand pieces , and its sharp shell struck him in the face and scratched him horribly .
Smarting with pain he ran to the bucket and stooped down to throw some water over his head .
As he stretched out his hand up started the wasp and stung him on the nose .
The monkey shrieked and ran to the door , but as he passed through down fell the mortar and struck him dead .
` After that the crab lived happily for many years , and at length died in peace under her own kaki tree .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Horse Gullfaxi And The Sword Gunnfoder Many many years ago there lived a king and queen who had one only son , called Sigurd .
When the little boy was only ten years old the queen , his mother , fell ill and died , and the king , who loved her dearly , built a splendid monument to his wife 's memory , and day after day he sat by it and bewailed his sad loss .
One morning , as he sat by the grave , he noticed a richly dressed lady close to him .
He asked her name and she answered that it was Ingiborg , and seemed surprised to see the king there all alone .
Then he told her how he had lost his queen , and how he came daily to weep at her grave .
In return , the lady informed him that she had lately lost her husband , and suggested that they might both find it a comfort if they made friends .
This pleased the king so much that he invited her to his palace , where they saw each other often ; and after a time he married her .
After the wedding was over he soon regained his good spirits , and used to ride out hunting as in old days ; but Sigurd , who was very fond of his stepmother , always stayed at home with her .
One evening Ingiborg said to Sigurd : ` To-morrow your father is going out hunting , and you must go with him . '
But Sigurd said he would much rather stay at home , and the next day when the king rode off Sigurd refused to accompany him .
The stepmother was very angry , but he would not listen , and at last she assured him that he would be sorry for his disobedience , and that in future he had better do as he was told .
After the hunting party had started she hid Sigurd under her bed , and bade him be sure to lie there till she called him .
Sigurd lay very still for a long while , and was just thinking it was no good staying there any more , when he felt the floor shake under him as if there were an earthquake , and peeping out he saw a great giantess wading along ankle deep through the ground and ploughing it up as she walked .
` Good morning , Sister Ingiborg , ' cried she as she entered the room , ` is Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` No , ' said Ingiborg ; ` he rode off to the forest with his father this morning . '
And she laid the table for her sister and set food before her .
After they had both done eating the giantess said : ` Thank you , sister , for your good dinner -- the best lamb , the best can of beer and the best drink I have ever had ; but -- is not Prince Sigurd at home ? '
Ingiborg again said ` No ' ; and the giantess took leave of her and went away .
When she was quite out of sight Ingiborg told Sigurd to come out of his hiding-place .
The king returned home at night , but his wife told him nothing of what had happened , and the next morning she again begged the prince to go out hunting with his father .
Sigurd , however , replied as before , that he would much rather stay at home .
So once more the king rode off alone .
This time Ingiborg hid Sigurd under the table , and scolded him well for not doing as she bade him .
For some time he lay quite still , and then suddenly the floor began to shake , and a giantess came along wading half way to her knees through the ground .
As she entered the house she asked , as the first one had done : ` Well , Sister Ingiborg , is Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` No , ' answered Ingiborg , ' he rode off hunting with his father this morning ' ; and going to the cupboard she laid the table for her sister .
When they had finished their meal the giantess rose and said : ` Thank you for all these nice dishes , and for the best lamb , the best can of beer and the nicest drink I have ever had ; but -- is Prince Sigurd really not at home ? '
` No , certainly not ! '
replied Ingiborg ; and with that they took leave of each other .
When she was well out of sight Sigurd crept from under the table , and his stepmother declared that it was most important that he should not stay at home next day ; but he said he did not see what harm could come of it , and he did not mean to go out hunting , and the next morning , when the king prepared to start , Ingiborg implored Sigurd to accompany his father .
But it was all no use , he was quite obstinate and would not listen to a word she said .
` You will have to hide me again , ' said he , so no sooner had the king gone than Ingiborg hid Sigurd between the wall and the panelling , and by-and-by there was heard once more a sound like an earthquake , as a great giantess , wading knee deep through the ground , came in at the door .
` Good day , Sister Ingiborg ! '
she cried , in a voice like thunder ; ` is Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` Oh , no , ' answered Ingiborg , ` he is enjoying himself out there in the forest .
I expect it will be quite dark before he comes back again . '
` That 's a lie ! '
shouted the giantess .
And they squabbled about it till they were tired , after which Ingiborg laid the table ; and when the giantess had done eating she said : ` Well , I must thank you for all these good things , and for the best lamb , the best can of beer and the best drink I have had for a long time ; but -- are you quite sure Prince Sigurd is not at home ? '
` Quite , ' said Ingiborg .
` I 've told you already that he rode off with his father this morning to hunt in the forest . '
At this the giantess roared out with a terrible voice : ` If he is near enough to hear my words , I lay this spell on him : Let him be half scorched and half withered ; and may he have neither rest nor peace till he finds me . '
And with these words she stalked off .
For a moment Ingiborg stood as if turned to stone , then she fetched Sigurd from his hiding-place , and , to her horror , there he was , half scorched and half withered .
` Now you see what has happened through your own obstinacy , ' said she ; ` but we must lose no time , for your father will soon be coming home . '
Going quickly into the next room she opened a chest and took out a ball of string and three gold rings , and gave them to Sigurd , saying : ` If you throw this ball on the ground it will roll along till it reaches some high cliffs .
There you will see a giantess looking out over the rocks .
She will call down to you and say : `` Ah , this is just what I wanted !
Here is Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night '' ; but do n't be frightened by her .
She will draw you up with a long boat-hook , and you must greet her from me , and give her the smallest ring as a present .
This will please her , and she will ask you to wrestle with her .
When you are exhausted , she will offer you a horn to drink out of , and though she does not know it , the wine will make you so strong that you will easily be able to conquer her .
After that she will let you stay there all night .
The same thing will happen with my two other sisters .
But , above all , remember this : should my little dog come to you and lay his paws on you , with tears running down his face , then hurry home , for my life will be in danger .
Now , good-bye , and do n't forget your stepmother . '
Then Ingiborg dropped the ball on the ground , and Sigurd bade her farewell .
That same evening the ball stopped rolling at the foot of some high rocks , and on glancing up , Sigurd saw the giantess looking out at the top .
` Ah , just what I wanted ! '
she cried out when she saw him ; ` here is Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night .
Come up , my friend , and wrestle with me . '
With these words she reached out a long boat hook and hauled him up the cliff .
At first Sigurd was rather frightened , but he remembered what Ingiborg had said , and gave the giantess her sister 's message and the ring .
The giantess was delighted , and challenged him to wrestle with her .
Sigurd was fond of all games , and began to wrestle with joy ; but he was no match for the giantess , and as she noticed that he was getting faint she gave him a horn to drink out of , which was very foolish on her part , as it made Sigurd so strong that he soon overthrew her .
` You may stay here to-night , ' said she ; and he was glad of the rest .
Next morning Sigurd threw down the ball again and away it rolled for some time , till it stopped at the foot of another high rock .
Then he looked up and saw another giantess , even bigger and uglier than the first one , who called out to him : ` Ah , this is just what I wanted !
Here is Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night .
Come up quickly and wrestle with me . '
And she lost no time in hauling him up .
The prince gave her his stepmother 's message and the second largest ring .
The giantess was greatly pleased when she saw the ring , and at once challenged Sigurd to wrestle with her .
They struggled for a long time , till at last Sigurd grew faint ; so she handed him a horn to drink from , and when he had drunk he became so strong that he threw her down with one hand .
On the third morning Sigurd once more laid down his ball , and it rolled far away , till at last it stopped under a very high rock indeed , over the top of which the most hideous giantess that ever was seen looked down .
When she saw who was there she cried out : ` Ah , this is just what I wanted !
Here comes Prince Sigurd .
Into the pot he goes this very night .
Come up here , my friend , and wrestle with me . '
And she hauled him up just as her sisters had done .
Sigurd then gave her his stepmother 's message and the last and largest ring .
The sight of the red gold delighted the giantess , and she challenged Sigurd to a wrestling match .
This time the fight was fierce and long , but when at length Sigurd 's strength was failing the giantess gave him something to drink , and after he had drunk it he soon brought her to her knees .
` You have beaten me , ' she gasped , so now , listen to me .
` Not far from here is a lake .
Go there ; you will find a little girl playing with a boat .
Try to make friends with her , and give her this little gold ring .
You are stronger than ever you were , and I wish you good luck . '
With these words they took leave of each other , and Sigurd wandered on till he reached the lake , where he found the little girl playing with a boat , just as he had been told .
He went up to her and asked what her name was .
She was called Helga , she answered , and she lived near by .
So Sigurd gave her the little gold ring , and proposed that they should have a game .
The little girl was delighted , for she had no brothers or sisters , and they played together all the rest of the day .
When evening came Sigurd asked leave to go home with her , but Helga at first forbade him , as no stranger had ever managed to enter their house without being found out by her father , who was a very fierce giant .
However , Sigurd persisted , and at length she gave way ; but when they came near the door she held her glove over him and Sigurd was at once transformed into a bundle of wool .
Helga tucked the bundle under her arm and threw it on the bed in her room .
Almost at the same moment her father rushed in and hunted round in every corner , crying out : ` This place smells of men .
What 's that you threw on the bed , Helga ? ' '
A bundle of wool , ' said she .
` Oh , well , perhaps it was that I smelt , ' said the old man , and troubled himself no more .
The following day Helga went out to play and took the bundle of wool with her under her arm .
When she reached the lake she held her glove over it again and Sigurd resumed his own shape .
They played the whole day , and Sigurd taught Helga all sorts of games she had never even heard of .
As they walked home in the evening she said : ` We shall be able to play better still to-morrow , for my father will have to go to the town , so we can stay at home . '
When they were near the house Helga again held her glove over Sigurd , and once more he was turned into a bundle of wool , and she carried him in without his being seen .
Very early next morning Helga 's father went to the town , and as soon as he was well out of the way the girl held up her glove and Sigurd was himself again .
Then she took him all over the house to amuse him , and opened every room , for her father had given her the keys before he left ; but when they came to the last room Sigurd noticed one key on the bunch which had not been used and asked which room it belonged to . '
Helga grew red and did not answer . '
I suppose you do n't mind my seeing the room which it opens ? '
asked Sigurd , and as he spoke he saw a heavy iron door and begged Helga to unlock it for him .
But she told him she dared not do so , at least if she did open the door it must only be a very tiny chink ; and Sigurd declared that would do quite well .
The door was so heavy , that it took Helga some time to open it , and Sigurd grew so impatient that he pushed it wide open and walked in .
There he saw a splendid horse , all ready saddled , and just above it hung a richly ornamented sword on the handle of which was engraved these words : ` He who rides this horse and wears this sword will find happiness . '
At the sight of the horse Sigurd was so filled with wonder that he was not able to speak , but at last he gasped out : ` Oh , do let me mount him and ride him round the house !
Just once ; I promise not to ask any more . '
` Ride him round the house ! '
cried Helga , growing pale at the mere idea .
` Ride Gullfaxi !
Why father would never , never forgive me , if I let you do that . '
` But it ca n't do him any harm , ' argued Sigurd ; ` you do n't know how careful I will be .
I have ridden all sorts of horses at home , and have never fallen off not once .
Oh , Helga , do ! '
` Well , perhaps , if you come back directly , ' replied Helga , doubtfully ; ` but you must be very quick , or father will find out ! '
But , instead of mounting Gullfaxi , as she expected , Sigurd stood still .
` And the sword , ' he said , looking fondly up to the place where it hung .
` My father is a king , but he has not got any sword so beautiful as that .
Why , the jewels in the scabbard are more splendid than the big ruby in his crown !
Has it got a name ?
Some swords have , you know . '
` It is called `` Gunnfjoder , '' the `` Battle Plume , '' ' answered Helga , ` and `` Gullfaxi '' means `` Golden Mane . ''
I do n't suppose , if you are to get on the horse at all , it would matter your taking the sword too .
And if you take the sword you will have to carry the stick and the stone and the twig as well . '
` They are easily carried , ' said Sigurd , gazing at them with scorn ; ` what wretched dried-up things !
Why in the world do you keep them ? '
` Bather says that he would rather lose Gullfaxi than lose them , ' replied Helga , ` for if the man who rides the horse is pursued he has only to throw the twig behind him and it will turn into a forest , so thick that even a bird could hardly fly through .
But if his enemy happens to know magic , and can throw down the forest , the man has only to strike the stone with the stick , and hailstones as large as pigeons ' eggs will rain down from the sky and will kill every one for twenty miles round . '
Having said all this she allowed Sigurd to ride ` just once ' round the house , taking the sword and other things with him .
But when he had ridden round , instead of dismounting , he suddenly turned the horse 's head and galloped away .
Soon after this Helga 's father came home and found his daughter in tears .
He asked what was the matter , and when he heard all that had happened , he rushed off as fast as he could to pursue Sigurd .
Now , as Sigurd happened to look behind him he saw the giant coming after him with great strides , and in all haste he threw the twig behind him .
Immediately such a thick wood sprang up at once between him and his enemy that the giant was obliged to run home for an axe with which to cut his way through .
The next time Sigurd glanced round , the giant was so near that he almost touched Gullfaxi 's tail .
In an agony of fear Sigurd turned quickly in his saddle and hit the stone with the stick .
No sooner had he done this than a terrible hailstorm burst behind , and the giant was killed on the spot .
But had Sigurd struck the stone without turning round , the hail would have driven right into his face and killed him instead .
After the giant was dead Sigurd rode on towards his own home , and on the way he suddenly met his stepmother 's little dog , running to meet him , with tears pouring down its face .
He galloped on as hard as he could , and on arriving found nine men-servants in the act of tying Queen Ingiborg to a post in the courtyard of the palace , where they intended to burn her .
Wild with anger Prince Sigurd sprang from his horse and , sword in hand , fell on the men and killed them all .
Then he released his stepmother , and went in with her to see his father .
The king lay in bed sick with sorrow , and neither eating nor drinking , for he thought that his son had been killed by the queen .
He could hardly believe his own eyes for joy when he saw the prince , and Sigurd told him all his adventures .
After that Prince Sigurd rode back to fetch Helga , and a great feast was made which lasted three days ; and every one said no bride was ever seen so beautiful as Helga , and they lived happily for many , many years , and everybody loved them .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Story Of The Sham Prince , Or The Ambitious Tailor Once upon a time there lived a respectable young tailor called Labakan , who worked for a clever master in Alexandria .
No one could call Labakan either stupid or lazy , for he could work extremely well and quickly -- when he chose ; but there was something not altogether right about him .
Sometimes he would stitch away as fast as if he had a red-hot needle and a burning thread , and at other times he would sit lost in thought , and with such a queer look about him that his fellow-workmen used to say , ` Labakan has got on his aristocratic face today . '
On Fridays he would put on his fine robe which he had bought with the money he had managed to save up , and go to the mosque .
As he came back , after prayers , if he met any friend who said ` Good-day , ' or ` How are you , friend Labakan ? '
he would wave his hand graciously or nod in a condescending way ; and if his master happened to say to him , as he sometimes did , ` Really , Labakan , you look like a prince , ' he was delighted , and would answer , ` Have you noticed it too ? '
or ` Well , so I have long thought . '
Things went on like this for some time , and the master put up with Labakan 's absurdities because he was , on the whole , a good fellow and a clever workman .
One day , the sultan 's brother happened to be passing through Alexandria , and wanted to have one of his state robes altered , so he sent for the master tailor , who handed the robe over to Labakan as his best workman .
In the evening , when every one had left the workshop and gone home , a great longing drove Labakan back to the place where the royal robe hung .
He stood a long time gazing at it , admiring the rich material and the splendid embroidery in it .
At last he could hold out no longer .
He felt he must try it on , and lo !
and behold , it fitted as though it had been made for him .
` Am not I as good a prince as any other ? '
he asked himself , as he proudly paced up and down the room .
` Has not the master often said that I seemed born to be a prince ? '
It seemed to him that he must be the son of some unknown monarch , and at last he determined to set out at once and travel in search of his proper rank .
He felt as if the splendid robe had been sent him by some kind fairy , and he took care not to neglect such a precious gift .
He collected all his savings , and , concealed by the darkness of the night , he passed through the gates of Alexandria .
The new prince excited a good deal of curiosity where ever he went , for his splendid robe and majestic manner did not seem quite suitable to a person travelling on foot .
If anyone asked questions , he only replied with an important air of mystery that he had his own reasons for not riding .
However , he soon found out that walking made him ridiculous , so at last he bought a quiet , steady old horse , which he managed to get cheap .
One day , as he was ambling along upon Murva -LRB- that was the horse 's name -RRB- , a horseman overtook him and asked leave to join him , so that they might both beguile the journey with pleasant talk .
The newcomer was a bright , cheerful , good-looking young man , who soon plunged into conversation and asked many questions .
He told Labakan that his own name was Omar , that he was a nephew of Elfi Bey , and was travelling in order to carry out a command given him by his uncle on his death bed .
Labakan was not quite so open in his confidences , but hinted that he too was of noble birth and was travelling for pleasure .
The two young men took a fancy to each other and rode on together .
On the second day of their journey Labakan questioned Omar as to the orders he had to carry out , and to his surprise heard this tale .
Elfi Bey , Pacha of Cairo , had brought up Omar from his earliest childhood , and the boy had never known his parents .
On his deathbed Elfi Bey called Omar to him , and then told him that he was not his nephew , but the son of a great king , who , having been warned of coming dangers by his astrologers , had sent the young prince away and made a vow not to see him till his twenty-second birthday .
Elfi Bey did not tell Omar his father 's name , but expressly desired him to be at a great pillar four days ' journey east of Alexandria on the fourth day of the coming month , on which day he would be twenty-two years old .
Here he would meet some men , to whom he was to hand a dagger which Elfi Bey gave him , and to say ` Here am I for whom you seek . '
If they answered : ` Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you , ' he was to follow them , and they would take him to his father .
Labakan was greatly surprised and interested by this story , but after hearing it he could not help looking on Prince Omar with envious eyes , angry that his friend should have the position he himself longed so much for .
He began to make comparisons between the prince and himself , and was obliged to confess that he was a fine-looking young man with very good manners and a pleasant expression .
At the same time , he felt sure that had he been in the prince 's place any royal father might have been glad to own him .
These thoughts haunted him all day , and he dreamt them all night .
He woke very early , and as he saw Omar sleeping quietly , with a happy smile on his face , a wish arose in his mind to take by force or by cunning the things which an unkind fate had denied him .
The dagger which was to act as a passport was sticking in Omar 's girdle .
Labakan drew it gently out , and hesitated for a moment whether or not to plunge it into the heart of the sleeping prince .
However , he shrank from the idea of murder , so he contented himself with placing the dagger in his own belt , and , saddling Omar 's swift horse for himself , was many miles away before the prince woke up to realise his losses .
For two days Labakan rode on steadily , fearing lest , after all , Omar might reach the meeting place before him .
At the end of the second day he saw the great pillar at a distance .
It stood on a little hill in the middle of a plain , and could be seen a very long way off .
Labakan 's heart beat fast at the sight .
Though he had had some time in which to think over the part he meant to play his conscience made him rather uneasy .
However , the thought that he must certainly have been born to be a king supported him , and he bravely rode on .
The neighbourhood was quite bare and desert , and it was a good thing that the new prince had brought food for some time with him , as two days were still wanting till the appointed time .
Towards the middle of the next day he saw a long procession of horses and camels coming towards him .
It halted at the bottom of the hill , and some splendid tents were pitched .
Everything looked like the escort of some great man .
Labakan made a shrewd guess that all these people had come here on his account ; but he checked his impatience , knowing that only on the fourth day could his wishes be fulfilled .
The first rays of the rising sun woke the happy tailor .
As he began to saddle his horse and prepare to ride to the pillar , he could not help having some remorseful thoughts of the trick he had played and the blighted hopes of the real prince .
But the die was cast , and his vanity whispered that he was as fine looking a young man as the proudest king might wish his son to be , and that , moreover , what had happened had happened .
With these thoughts he summoned up all his courage sprang on his horse , and in less than a quarter of an hour was at the foot of the hill .
Here he dismounted , tied the horse to a bush , and , drawing out Prince Omar 's dagger climbed up the hill .
At the foot of the pillar stood six men round a tall and stately person .
His superb robe of cloth of gold was girt round him by a white cashmere shawl , and his white , richly jewelled turban showed that he was a man of wealth and high rank .
Labakan went straight up to him , and , bending low , handed him the dagger , saying : ` Here am I whom you seek . '
` Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you !
replied the old man with tears of joy .
'Em brace me , my dear son Omar ! '
The proud tailor was deeply moved by these solemn words , and with mingled shame and joy sank into the old king 's arms .
But his happiness was not long unclouded .
As he raised his head he saw a horseman who seemed trying to urge a tired or unwilling horse across the plain .
Only too soon Labakan recognised his own old horse , Murva , and the real Prince Omar , but having once told a lie he made up his mind not to own his deceit .
At last the horseman reached the foot of the hill .
Here he flung himself from the saddle and hurried up to the pillar .
` Stop ! '
he cried , ` whoever you may be , and do not let a disgraceful impostor take you in .
My name is Omar , and let no one attempt to rob me of it . '
This turn of affairs threw the standers-by into great surprise .
The old king in particular seemed much moved as he looked from one face to the other .
At last Labakan spoke with forced calmness , ` Most gracious lord and father , do not let yourself be deceived by this man .
As far as I know , he is a half-crazy tailor 's apprentice from Alexandria , called Labakan , who really deserves more pity than anger . '
These words infuriated the prince .
Foaming with rage , he tried to press towards Labakan , but the attendants threw themselves upon him and held him fast , whilst the king said , ` Truly , my dear son , the poor fellow is quite mad .
Let him be bound and placed on a dromedary .
Perhaps we may be able to get some help for him . '
The prince 's first rage was over , and with tears he cried to the king , ` My heart tells me that you are my father , and in my mother 's name I entreat you to hear me . '
` Oh !
heaven forbid ! '
was the reply .
` He is talking nonsense again .
How can the poor man have got such notions into his head ? '
With these words the king took Labakan 's arm to support him down the hill .
They both mounted richly caparisoned horses and rode across the plain at the head of their followers .
The unlucky prince was tied hand and foot , and fastened on a dromedary , a guard riding on either side and keeping a sharp look-out on him .
The old king was Sached , Sultan of the Wachabites .
For many years he had had no children , but at length the son he had so long wished for was born .
But the sooth-sayers and magicians whom he consulted as to the child 's future all said that until he was twenty-two years old he stood in danger of being injured by an enemy .
So , to make all safe , the sultan had confided the prince to his trusty friend Elfi Bey , and deprived himself of the happiness of seeing him for twenty-two years .
All this the sultan told Labakan , and was much pleased by his appearance and dignified manner .
When they reached their own country they were received with every sign of joy , for the news of the prince 's safe return had spread like wildfire , and every town and village was decorated , whilst the inhabitants thronged to greet them with cries of joy and thankfulness .
All this filled Labakan 's proud heart with rapture , whilst the unfortunate Omar followed in silent rage and despair .
At length they arrived in the capital , where the public rejoicings were grander and more brilliant than anywhere else .
The queen awaited them in the great hall of the palace , surrounded by her entire court .
It was getting dark , and hundreds of coloured hanging lamps were lit to turn night into day .
The brightest hung round the throne on which the queen sat , and which stood above four steps of pure gold inlaid with great amethysts .
The four greatest nobles in the kingdom held a canopy of crimson silk over the queen , and the Sheik of Medina fanned her with a peacock-feather fan .
In this state she awaited her husband and her son .
She , too , had not seen Omar since his birth , but so many dreams had shown her what he would look like that she felt she would know him among a thousand .
And now the sound of trumpets and drums and of shouts and cheers outside announced the long looked for moment .
The doors flew open , and between rows of low-bending courtiers and servants the king approached the throne , leading his pretended son by the hand .
` Here , ' said he , ` is he for whom you have been longing so many years . '
But the queen interrupted him , ` That is not my son ! '
she cried .
` That is not the face the Prophet has shown me in my dreams ! '
Just as the king was about to reason with her , the door was thrown violently open , and Prince Omar rushed in , followed by his keepers , whom he had managed to get away from .
He flung himself down before the throne , panting out , ` Here will I die ; kill me at once , cruel father , for I can not bear this shame any longer . '
Everyone pressed round the unhappy man , and the guards were about to seize him , when the queen , who at first was dumb with surprise , sprang up from her throne .
` Hold ! '
cried she .
` This and no other is the right one ; this is the one whom my eyes have never yet seen , but whom my heart recognises . '
The guards had stepped back , but the king called to them in a furious voice to secure the madman .
` It is I who must judge , ' he said in tones of command ; ` and this matter can not be decided by women 's dreams , but by certain unmistakable signs .
This one ' -LRB- pointing to Labakan -RRB- ` is my son , for it was he who brought me the token from my friend Elfi -- the dagger . '
` He stole it from me , ' shrieked Omar ; ` he betrayed my unsuspicious confidence . '
But the king would not listen to his son 's voice , for he had always been accustomed to depend on his own judgment .
He let the unhappy Omar be dragged from the hall , whilst he himself retired with Labakan to his own rooms , full of anger with the queen his wife , in spite of their many years of happy life together .
The queen , on her side , was plunged in grief , for she felt certain that an impostor had won her husband 's heart and taken the place of her real son .
When the first shock was over she began to think how she could manage to convince the king of his mistake .
Of course it would be a difficult matter , as the man who declared he was Omar had produced the dagger as a token , besides talking of all sorts of things which happened when he was a child .
She called her oldest and wisest ladies about her and asked their advice , but none of them had any to give .
At last one very clever old woman said : ` Did not the young man who brought the dagger call him whom your majesty believes to be your son Labakan , and say he was a crazy tailor ? '
` Yes , ' replied the queen ; ` but what of that ? '
` Might it not be , ' said the old lady , ` that the impostor has called your real son by his own name ?
If this should be the case , I know of a capital way to find out the truth . '
And she whispered some words to the queen , who seemed much pleased , and went off at once to see the king .
Now the queen was a very wise woman , so she pretended to think she might have made a mistake , and only begged to be allowed to put a test to the two young men to prove which was the real prince .
The king , who was feeling much ashamed of the rage he had been in with his dear wife , consented at once , and she said : ` No doubt others would make them ride or shoot , or something of that sort , but every one learns these things .
I wish to set them a task which requires sharp wits and clever hands , and I want them to try which of them can best make a kaftan and pair of trousers . '
The king laughed .
` No , no , that will never do .
Do you suppose my son would compete with that crazy tailor as to which could make the best clothes ?
Oh , dear , no , that wo n't do at all . '
But the queen claimed his promise , and as he was a man of his word the king gave in at last .
He went to his son and begged that he would humour his mother , who had set her heart on his making a kaftan .
The worthy Labakan laughed to himself .
` If that is all she wants , ' thought he , ` her majesty will soon be pleased to own me . '
Two rooms were prepared , with pieces of material , scissors , needles and threads , and each young man was shut up in one of them .
The king felt rather curious as to what sort of garment his son would make , and the queen , too , was very anxious as to the result of her experiment .
On the third day they sent for the two young men and their work .
Labakan came first and spread out his kaftan before the eyes of the astonished king .
` See , father , ' he said ; ` see , my honoured mother , if this is not a masterpiece of work .
I 'll bet the court tailor himself can not do better .
The queen smiled and turned to Omar : ` And what have you done , my son ? '
Impatiently he threw the stuff and scissors down on the floor . '
I have been taught how to manage a horse , to draw a sword , and to throw a lance some sixty paces , but I never learnt to sew , and such a thing would have been thought beneath the notice of the pupil of Elfi Bey , the ruler of Cairo . '
` Ah , true son of your father , ' cried the queen ; ` if only I might embrace you and call you son !
Forgive me , my lord and husband , ' she added , turning to the king , ` for trying to find out the truth in this way .
Do you not see yourself now which is the prince and which the tailor ?
Certainly this kaftan is a very fine one , but I should like to know what master taught this young man how to make clothes . '
The king sat deep in thought , looking now at his wife and now at Labakan , who was doing his best to hide his vexation at his own stupidity .
At last the king said : ` Even this trial does not satisfy me ; but happily I know of a sure way to discover whether or not I have been deceived . '
He ordered his swiftest horse to be saddled , mounted , and rode off alone into a forest at some little distance .
Here lived a kindly fairy called Adolzaide , who had often helped the kings of his race with her good advice , and to her he betook himself .
In the middle of the forest was a wide open space surrounded by great cedar trees , and this was supposed to be the fairy 's favourite spot .
When the king reached this place he dismounted , tied his horse to the tree , and standing in the middle of the open place said : ` If it is true that you have helped my ancestors in their time of need , do not despise their descendant , but give me counsel , for that of men has failed me . '
He had hardly finished speaking when one of the cedar trees opened , and a veiled figure all dressed in white stepped from it . '
I know your errand , King Sached , ' she said ; ` it is an honest one , and I will give you my help .
Take these two little boxes and let the two men who claim to be your son choose between them .
I know that the real prince will make no mistake . '
She then handed him two little boxes made of ivory set with gold and pearls .
On the lid of each -LRB- which the king vainly tried to open -RRB- was an inscription in diamonds .
On one stood the words ` Honour and Glory , ' and on the other ` Wealth and Happiness . '
` It would be a hard choice , ' thought the king as he rode home .
He lost no time in sending for the queen and for all his court , and when all were assembled he made a sign , and Labakan was led in .
With a proud air he walked up to the throne , and kneeling down , asked : ` What does my lord and father command ? '
The king replied : ` My son , doubts have been thrown on your claim to that name .
One of these boxes contains the proofs of your birth .
Choose for yourself .
No doubt you will choose right . '
He then pointed to the ivory boxes , which were placed on two little tables near the throne .
Labakan rose and looked at the boxes .
He thought for some minutes , and then said : ` My honoured father , what can be better than the happiness of being your son , and what nobler than the riches of your love .
I choose the box with the words `` Wealth and Happiness . '' '
` We shall see presently if you have chosen the right one .
For the present take a seat there beside the Pacha of Medina , ' replied the king .
Omar was next led in , looking sad and sorrowful .
He threw himself down before the throne and asked what was the king 's pleasure .
The king pointed out the two boxes to him , and he rose and went to the tables .
He carefully read the two mottoes and said : ` The last few days have shown me how uncertain is happiness and how easily riches vanish away .
Should I lose a crown by it I make my choice of `` Honour and Glory . '' '
He laid his hand on the box as he spoke , but the king signed to him to wait , and ordered Labakan to come to the other table and lay his hand on the box he had chosen .
Then the king rose from his throne , and in solemn silence all present rose too , whilst he said : ` Open the boxes , and may Allah show us the truth . '
The boxes were opened with the greatest ease .
In the one Omar had chosen lay a little gold crown and sceptre on a velvet cushion .
In Labakan 's box was found -- a large needle with some thread !
The king told the two young men to bring him their boxes .
They did so .
He took the crown in his hand , and as he held it , it grew bigger and bigger , till it was as large as a real crown .
He placed it on the head of his son Omar , kissed him on the forehead , and placed him on his right hand .
Then , turning to Labakan , he said : ` There is an old proverb , `` The cobbler sticks to his last . ''
It seems as though you were to stick to your needle .
You have not deserved any mercy , but I can not be harsh on this day .
I give you your life , but I advise you to leave this country as fast as you can . '
Full of shame , the unlucky tailor could not answer .
He flung himself down before Omar , and with tears in his eyes asked : ` Can you forgive me , prince ? '
` Go in peace , ' said Omar as he raised him .
` Oh , my true son ! '
cried the king as he clasped the prince in his arms , whilst all the pachas and emirs shouted , ` Long live Prince Omar ! '
In the midst of all the noise and rejoicing Labakan slipped off with his little box under his arm .
He went to the stables , saddled his old horse , Murva , and rode out of the gate towards Alexandria .
Nothing but the ivory box with its diamond motto was left to show him that the last few weeks had not been a dream .
When he reached Alexandria he rode up to his old master 's door .
When he entered the shop , his master came forward to ask what was his pleasure , but as soon as he saw who it was he called his workmen , and they all fell on Labakan with blows and angry words , till at last he fell , half fainting , on a heap of old clothes .
The master then scolded him soundly about the stolen robe , but in vain Labakan told him he had come to pay for it and offered three times its price .
They only fell to beating him again , and at last pushed him out of the house more dead than alive .
He could do nothing but remount his horse and ride to an inn .
Here he found a quiet place in which to rest his bruised and battered limbs and to think over his many misfortunes .
He fell asleep fully determined to give up trying to be great , but to lead the life of an honest workman .
Next morning he set to work to fulfil his good resolutions .
He sold his little box to a jeweller for a good price , bought a house and opened a workshop .
Then he hung up a sign with , ` Labakan , Tailor , ' over his door , and sat down to mend his own torn clothes with the very needle which had been in the ivory box .
After a while he was called away , and when he went back to his work he found a wonderful thing had happened !
The needle was sewing away all by itself and making the neatest little stitches , such as Labakan had never been able to make even at his best .
Certainly even the smallest gift of a kind fairy is of great value , and this one had yet another advantage , for the thread never came to an end , however much the needle sewed .
Labakan soon got plenty of customers .
He used to cut out the clothes , make the first stitch with the magic needle , and then leave it to do the rest .
Before long the whole town went to him , for his work was both so good and so cheap .
The only puzzle was how he could do so much , working all alone , and also why he worked with closed doors .
And so the promise on the ivory box of ` Wealth and Happiness ' came true for him , and when he heard of all the brave doings of Prince Omar , who was the pride and darling of his people and the terror of his enemies , the ex-prince thought to himself , ` After all , I am better off as a tailor , for `` Honour and Glory '' are apt to be very dangerous things . '
The Colony Of Cats Long , long ago , as far back as the time when animals spoke , there lived a community of cats in a deserted house they had taken possession of not far from a large town .
They had everything they could possibly desire for their comfort , they were well fed and well lodged , and if by any chance an unlucky mouse was stupid enough to venture in their way , they caught it , not to eat it , but for the pure pleasure of catching it .
The old people of the town related how they had heard their parents speak of a time when the whole country was so overrun with rats and mice that there was not so much as a grain of corn nor an ear of maize to be gathered in the fields ; and it might be out of gratitude to the cats who had rid the country of these plagues that their descendants were allowed to live in peace .
No one knows where they got the money to pay for everything , nor who paid it , for all this happened so very long ago .
But one thing is certain , they were rich enough to keep a servant ; for though they lived very happily together , and did not scratch nor fight more than human beings would have done , they were not clever enough to do the housework themselves , and preferred at all events to have some one to cook their meat , which they would have scorned to eat raw .
Not only were they very difficult to please about the housework , but most women quickly tired of living alone with only cats for companions , consequently they never kept a servant long ; and it had become a saying in the town , when anyone found herself reduced to her last penny : ' I will go and live with the cats , ' and so many a poor woman actually did .
Now Lizina was not happy at home , for her mother , who was a widow , was much fonder of her elder daughter ; so that often the younger one fared very badly , and had not enough to eat , while the elder could have everything she desired , and if Lizina dared to complain she was certain to have a good beating .
At last the day came when she was at the end of her courage and patience , and exclaimed to her mother and sister : ` As you hate me so much you will be glad to be rid of me , so I am going to live with the cats ! '
` Be off with you ! '
cried her mother , seizing an old broom-handle from behind the door .
Poor Lizina did not wait to be told twice , but ran off at once and never stopped till she reached the door of the cats ' house .
Their cook had left them that very morning , with her face all scratched , the result of such a quarrel with the head of the house that he had very nearly scratched out her eyes .
Lizina therefore was warmly welcomed , and she set to work at once to prepare the dinner , not without many misgivings as to the tastes of the cats , and whether she would be able to satisfy them .
Going to and fro about her work , she found herself frequently hindered by a constant succession of cats who appeared one after another in the kitchen to inspect the new servant ; she had one in front of her feet , another perched on the back of her chair while she peeled the vegetables , a third sat on the table beside her , and five or six others prowled about among the pots and pans on the shelves against the wall .
The air resounded with their purring , which meant that they were pleased with their new maid , but Lizina had not yet learned to understand their language , and often she did not know what they wanted her to do .
However , as she was a good , kindhearted girl , she set to work to pick up the little kittens which tumbled about on the floor , she patched up quarrels , and nursed on her lap a big tabby -- the oldest of the community -- which had a lame paw .
All these kindnesses could hardly fail to make a favourable impression on the cats , and it was even better after a while , when she had had time to grow accustomed to their strange ways .
Never had the house been kept so clean , the meats so well served , nor the sick cats so well cared for .
After a time they had a visit from an old cat , whom they called their father , who lived by himself in a barn at the top of the hill , and came down from time to time to inspect the little colony .
He too was much taken with Lizina , and inquired , on first seeing her : ` Are you well served by this nice , black-eyed little person ? '
and the cats answered with one voice : ` Oh , yes , Father Gatto , we have never had so good a servant ! '
At each of his visits the answer was always the same ; but after a time the old cat , who was very observant , noticed that the little maid had grown to look sadder and sadder .
` What is the matter , my child has any one been unkind to you ? '
he asked one day , when he found her crying in her kitchen .
She burst into tears and answered between her sobs : ` Oh , no !
they are all very good to me ; but I long for news from home , and I pine to see my mother and my sister . '
Old Gatto , being a sensible old cat , understood the little servant 's feelings .
` You shall go home , ' he said , ` and you shall not come back here unless you please .
But first you must be rewarded for all your kind services to my children .
Follow me down into the inner cellar , where you have never yet been , for I always keep it locked and carry the key away with me . '
Lizina looked round her in astonishment as they went down into the great vaulted cellar underneath the kitchen .
Before her stood the big earthenware water jars , one of which contained oil , the other a liquid shining like gold .
` In which of these jars shall I dip you ? '
asked Father Gatto , with a grin that showed all his sharp white teeth , while his moustaches stood out straight on either side of his face .
The little maid looked at the two jars from under her long dark lashes : ` In the oil jar , ' she answered timidly , thinking to herself : ' I could not ask to be bathed in gold . '
But Father Gatto replied : ` No , no ; you have deserved something better than that . '
And seizing her in his strong paws he plunged her into the liquid gold .
Wonder of wonders !
when Lizina came out of the jar she shone from head to foot like the sun in the heavens on a fine summer 's day .
Her pretty pink cheeks and long black hair alone kept their natural colour , otherwise she had become like a statue of pure gold .
Father Gatto purred loudly with satisfaction .
` Go home , ' he said , ` and see your mother and sisters ; but take care if you hear the cock crow to turn towards it ; if on the contrary the ass brays , you must look the other way . '
The little maid , having gratefully kissed the white paw of the old cat , set off for home ; but just as she got near her mother 's house the cock crowed , and quickly she turned towards it .
Immediately a beautiful golden star appeared on her forehead , crowning her glossy black hair .
At the same time the ass began to bray , but Lizina took care not to look over the fence into the field where the donkey was feeding .
Her mother and sister , who were in front of their house , uttered cries of admiration and astonishment when they saw her , and their cries became still louder when Lizina , taking her handkerchief from her pocket , drew out also a handful of gold .
For some days the mother and her two daughters lived very happily together , for Lizina had given them everything she had brought away except her golden clothing , for that would not come off , in spite of all the efforts of her sister , who was madly jealous of her good fortune .
The golden star , too , could not be removed from her forehead .
But all the gold pieces she drew from her pockets had found their way to her mother and sister . '
I will go now and see what I can get out of the pussies , ' said Peppina , the elder girl , one morning , as she took Lizina 's basket and fastened her pockets into her own skirt . '
I should like some of the cats ' gold for myself , ' she thought , as she left her mother 's house before the sun rose .
The cat colony had not yet taken another servant , for they knew they could never get one to replace Lizina , whose loss they had not yet ceased to mourn .
When they heard that Peppina was her sister , they all ran to meet her .
` She is not the least like her , ' the kittens whispered among themselves .
` Hush , be quiet ! '
the older cats said ; ` all servants can not be pretty . '
No , decidedly she was not at all like Lizina .
Even the most reasonable and large-minded of the cats soon acknowledged that .
The very first day she shut the kitchen door in the face of the tom-cats who used to enjoy watching Lizina at her work , and a young and mischievous cat who jumped in by the open kitchen window and alighted on the table got such a blow with the rolling-pin that he squalled for an hour .
With every day that passed the household became more and more aware of its misfortune .
The work was as badly done as the servant was surly and disagreeable ; in the corners of the rooms there were collected heaps of dust ; spiders ' webs hung from the ceilings and in front of the window-panes ; the beds were hardly ever made , and the feather beds , so beloved by the old and feeble cats , had never once been shaken since Lizina left the house .
At Father Gatto 's next visit he found the whole colony in a state of uproar .
` Caesar has one paw so badly swollen that it looks as if it were broken , ' said one .
` Peppina kicked him with her great wooden shoes on .
Hector has an abscess in his back where a wooden chair was flung at him ; and Agrippina 's three little kittens have died of hunger beside their mother , because Peppina forgot them in their basket up in the attic .
There is no putting up with the creature -- do send her away , Father Gatto !
Lizina herself would not be angry with us ; she must know very well what her sister is like . '
` Come here , ' said Father Gatto , in his most severe tones to Peppina .
And he took her down into the cellar and showed her the same two great jars that he had showed Lizina .
` In which of these shall I dip you ? '
he asked ; and she made haste to answer : ` In the liquid gold , ' for she was no more modest than she was good and kind .
Father Gatto 's yellow eyes darted fire .
` You have not deserved it , ' he uttered , in a voice like thunder , and seizing her he flung her into the jar of oil , where she was nearly suffocated .
When she came to the surface screaming and struggling , the vengeful cat seized her again and rolled her in the ash-heap on the floor ; then when she rose , dirty , blinded , and disgusting to behold , he thrust her from the door , saying : ` Begone , and when you meet a braying ass be careful to turn your head towards it . '
Stumbling and raging , Peppina set off for home , thinking herself fortunate to find a stick by the wayside with which to support herself .
She was within sight of her mother 's house when she heard in the meadow on the right , the voice of a donkey loudly braying .
Quickly she turned her head towards it , and at the same time put her hand up to her forehead , where , waving like a plume , was a donkey 's tail .
She ran home to her mother at the top of her speed , yelling with rage and despair ; and it took Lizina two hours with a big basin of hot water and two cakes of soap to get rid of the layer of ashes with which Father Gatto had adorned her .
As for the donkey 's tail , it was impossible to get rid of that ; it was as firmly fixed on her forehead as was the golden star on Lizina 's .
Their mother was furious .
She first beat Lizina unmercifully with the broom , then she took her to the mouth of the well and lowered her into it , leaving her at the bottom weeping and crying for help .
Before this happened , however , the king 's son in passing the mother 's house had seen Lizina sitting sewing in the parlour , and had been dazzled by her beauty .
After coming back two or three times , he at last ventured to approach the window and to whisper in the softest voice : ` Lovely maiden , will you be my bride ? '
and she had answered : ' I will . '
Next morning , when the prince arrived to claim his bride , he found her wrapped in a large white veil .
` It is so that maidens are received from their parents ' hands , ' said the mother , who hoped to make the king 's son marry Peppina in place of her sister , and had fastened the donkey 's tail round her head like a lock of hair under the veil .
The prince was young and a little timid , so he made no objections , and seated Peppina in the carriage beside him .
Their way led past the old house inhabited by the cats , who were all at the window , for the report had got about that the prince was going to marry the most beautiful maiden in the world , on whose forehead shone a golden star , and they knew that this could only be their adored Lizina .
As the carriage slowly passed in front of the old house , where cats from all parts of world seemed to be gathered a song burst from every throat : Mew , mew , mew !
Prince , look quick behind you !
In the well is fair Lizina , And you 've got nothing but Peppina .
When he heard this the coachman , who understood the cat 's language better than the prince , his master , stopped his horses and asked : ` Does your highness know what the grimalkins are saying ? '
and the song broke forth again louder than ever .
With a turn of his hand the prince threw back the veil , and discovered the puffed-up , swollen face of Peppina , with the donkey 's tail twisted round her head .
` Ah , traitress ! '
he exclaimed , and ordering the horses to be turned round , he drove the elder daughter , quivering with rage , to the old woman who had sought to deceive him .
With his hand on the hilt of his sword he demanded Lizina in so terrific a voice that the mother hastened to the well to draw her prisoner out .
Lizina 's clothing and her star shone so brilliantly that when the prince led her home to the king , his father , the whole palace was lit up .
Next day they were married , and lived happy ever after ; and all the cats , headed by old Father Gatto , were present at the wedding .
How To Find Out A True Friend Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who longed to have a son .
As none came , one day they made a vow at the shrine of St. James that if their prayers were granted the boy should set out on a pilgrimage as soon as he had passed his eighteenth birthday .
And fancy their delight when one evening the king returned home from hunting and saw a baby lying in the cradle .
All the people came crowding round to peep at it , and declared it was the most beautiful baby that ever was seen .
Of course that is what they always say , but this time it happened to be true .
And every day the boy grew bigger and stronger till he was twelve years old , when the king died , and he was left alone to take care of his mother .
In this way six years passed by , and his eighteenth birthday drew near .
When she thought of this the queen 's heart sank within her , for he was the light of her eyes ' and how was she to send him forth to the unknown dangers that beset a pilgrim ?
So day by day she grew more and more sorrowful , and when she was alone wept bitterly .
Now the queen imagined that no one but herself knew how sad she was , but one morning her son said to her , ` Mother , why do you cry the whole day long ? '
` Nothing , nothing , my son ; there is only one thing in the world that troubles me . '
` What is that one thing ? '
asked he .
` Are you afraid your property is badly managed ?
Let me go and look into the matter . '
This pleased the queen , and he rode off to the plain country , where his mother owned great estates ; but everything was in beautiful order , and he returned with a joyful heart , and said , ` Now , mother , you can be happy again , for your lands are better managed than anyone else 's I have seen .
The cattle are thriving ; the fields are thick with corn , and soon they will be ripe for harvest . '
` That is good news indeed , ' answered she ; but it did not seem to make any difference to her , and the next morning she was weeping and wailing as loudly as ever .
` Dear mother , ' said her son in despair , ` if you will not tell me what is the cause of all this misery I shall leave home and wander far through the world . '
` Ah , my son , my son , ' cried the queen , ` it is the thought that I must part from you which causes me such grief ; for before you were born we vowed a vow to St. James that when your eighteenth birthday was passed you should make a pilgrimage to his shrine , and very soon you will be eighteen , and I shall lose you .
And for a whole year my eyes will never be gladdened by the sight of you , for the shrine is far away . '
` Will it take no longer than that to reach it ? '
said he .
` Oh , do n't be so wretched ; it is only dead people who never return .
As long as I am alive you may be sure I will come back to you . '
After this manner he comforted his mother , and on his eighteenth birthday his best horse was led to the door of the palace , and he took leave of the queen in these words , ` Dear mother , farewell , and by the help of fate I shall return to you as soon as I can . '
The queen burst into tears and wept sore ; then amidst her sobs she drew three apples from her pocket and held them out , saying , ` My son , take these apples and give heed unto my words .
You will need a companion in the long journey on which you are going .
If you come across a young man who pleases you beg him to accompany you , and when you get to an inn invite him to have dinner with you .
After you have eaten cut one of these apples in two unequal parts , and ask him to take one .
If he takes the larger bit , then part from him , for he is no true friend to you .
But if he takes the smaller bit treat him as your brother , and share with him all you have . '
Then she kissed her son once more , and blessed him , and let him go .
The young man rode a long way without meeting a single creature , but at last he saw a youth in the distance about the same age as himself , and he spurred his horse till he came up with the stranger , who stopped and asked : ` Where are you going , my fine fellow ? ' '
I am making a pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James , for before I was born my mother vowed that I should go forth with a thank offering on my eighteenth birthday . '
` That is my case too , ' said the stranger , ` and , as we must both travel in the same direction , let us bear each other company . '
The young man agreed to this proposal , but he took care not to get on terms of familiarity with the new comer until he had tried him with the apple .
By-and-by they reached an inn , and at sight of it the king 's son said , ' I am very hungry .
Let us enter and order something to eat . '
The other consented , and they were soon sitting before a good dinner .
When they had finished the king 's son drew an apple from his pocket , and cut it into a big half and a little half , and offered both to the stranger , who took the biggest bit .
` You are no friend of mine , ' thought the king 's son , and in order to part company with him he pretended to be ill and declared himself unable to proceed on his journey .
` Well , I ca n't wait for you , ' replied the other ; ' I am in haste to push on , so farewell . '
` Farewell , ' said the king 's son , glad in his heart to get rid of him so easily .
The king 's son remained in the inn for some time , so as to let the young man have a good start ; them he ordered his horse and rode after him .
But he was very sociable and the way seemed long and dull by himself .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend , ' he thought , ` so that I should have some one to speak to .
I hate being alone . '
Soon after he came up with a young man , who stopped and asked him , ` Where are you going , my fine fellow ? '
The king 's son explained the object of his journey , and the young man answered , as the other had done , that he also was fulfilling the vow of his mother made at his birth .
` Well , we can ride on together , ' said the king 's son , and the road seemed much shorter now that he had some one to talk to .
At length they reached an inn , and the king 's son exclaimed , ' I am very hungry ; let us go in and get something to eat . '
When they had finished the king 's son drew an apple out of his pocket and cut it in two ; he held the big bit and the little bit out to his companion , who took the big bit at once and soon ate it up .
` You are no friend of mine , ' thought the king 's son , and began to declare he felt so ill he could not continue his journey .
When he had given the young man a good start he set off himself , but the way seemed even longer and duller than before .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend he should be as a brother to me , ' he sighed sadly ; and as the thought passed through his mind , he noticed a youth going the same road as himself .
The youth came up to him and said , ` Which way are you going , my fine fellow ? '
And for the third time the king 's son explained all about his mother 's vow .
Why , that is just like me , ' cried the youth .
` Then let us ride on together , ' answered the king 's son .
Now the miles seemed to slip by , for the new comer was so lively and entertaining that the king 's son could not help hoping that he indeed might prove to be the true friend .
More quickly than he could have thought possible they reached an inn by the road-side , and turning to his companion the king 's son said , ' I am hungry ; let us go in and have something to eat . '
So they went in and ordered dinner , and when they had finished the king 's son drew out of his pocket the last apple , and cut it into two unequal parts , and held both out to the stranger .
And the stranger took the little piece , and the heart of the king 's son was glad within him , for at last he had found the friend he had been looking for .
` Good youth , ' he cried , ` we will be brothers , and what is mine shall be thine , and what is thine shall be mine .
And together we will push on to the shrine , and if one of us dies on the road the other shall carry his body there . '
And the stranger agreed to all he said , and they rode forward together .
It took them a whole year to reach the shrine , and they passed through many different lands on their way .
One day they arrived tired and half-starved in a big city , and said to one another , ` Let us stay here for a little and rest before we set forth again . '
So they hired a small house close to the royal castle , and took up their abode there .
The following morning the king of the country happened to step on to his balcony , and saw the young men in the garden , and said to himself , ` Dear me , those are wonderfully handsome youths ; but one is handsomer than the other , and to him will I give my daughter to wife ; ' and indeed the king 's son excelled his friend in beauty .
In order to set about his plan the king asked both the young men to dinner , and when they arrived at the castle he received them with the utmost kindness , and sent for his daughter , who was more lovely than both the sun and moon put together .
But at bed-time the king caused the other young man to be given a poisoned drink , which killed him in a few minutes , for he thought to himself , ` If his friend dies the other will forget his pilgrimage , and will stay here and marry my daughter . '
When the king 's son awoke the next morning he inquired of the servants where his friend had gone , as he did not see him .
` He died suddenly last night , ' said they , ` and is to be buried immediately . '
But the king 's son sprang up , and cried , ` If my friend is dead I can stay here no longer , and can not linger an hour in this house . '
` Oh , give up your journey and remain here , ' exclaimed the king , ` and you shall have my daughter for your wife . '
` No , ' answered the king 's son , ' I can not stay ; but , I pray you , grant my request , and give me a good horse , and let me go in peace , and when I have fulfilled my vow then I will return and marry your daughter . '
So the king , seeing no words would move him , ordered a horse to be brought round , and the king 's son mounted it , and took his dead friend before him on the saddle , and rode away .
Now the young man was not really dead , but only in a deep sleep .
When the king 's son reached the shrine of St. James he got down from his horse , took his friend in his arms as if he had been a child , and laid him before the altar .
` St. James , ' he said , ' I have fulfilled the vow my parents made for me .
I have come myself to your shrine , and have brought my friend .
I place him in your hands .
Restore him to life , I pray , for though he be dead yet has he fulfilled his vow also . '
And , behold !
while he yet prayed his friend got up and stood before him as well as ever .
And both the young men gave thanks , and set their faces towards home .
When they arrived at the town where the king dwelt they entered the small house over against the castle .
The news of their coming spread very soon , and the king rejoiced greatly that the handsome young prince had come back again , and commanded great feasts to be prepared , for in a few days his daughter should marry the king 's son .
The young man himself could imagine no greater happiness , and when the marriage was over they spent some months at the court making merry .
At length the king 's son said , ` My mother awaits me at home , full of care and anxiety .
Here I must remain no longer , and to-morrow I will take my wife and my friend and start for home . '
And the king was content that he should do so , and gave orders to prepare for their journey .
Now in his heart the king cherished a deadly hate towards the poor young man whom he had tried to kill , but who had returned to him living , and in order to do him hurt sent him on a message to some distant spot .
` See that you are quick , ' said he , ` for your friend will await your return before he starts . '
The youth put spurs to his horse and departed , bidding the prince farewell , so that the king 's message might be delivered the sooner .
As soon as he had started the king went to the chamber of the prince , and said to him , ` If you do not start immediately , you will never reach the place where you must camp for the night . ' '
I can not start without my friend , ' replied the king 's son .
` Oh , he will be back in an hour , ' replied the king , ` and I will give him my best horse , so that he will be sure to catch you up . '
The king 's son allowed himself to be persuaded and took leave of his father-in-law , and set out with his wife on his journey home .
Meanwhile the poor friend had been unable to get through his task in the short time appointed by the king , and when at last he returned the king said to him , ` Your comrade is a long way off by now ; you had better see if you can overtake him . '
So the young man bowed and left the king 's presence , and followed after his friend on foot , for he had no horse .
Night and day he ran , till at length he reached the place where the king 's son had pitched his tent , and sank down before him , a miserable object , worn out and covered with mud and dust .
But the king 's son welcomed him with joy , and tended him as he would his brother .
And at last they came home again , and the queen was waiting and watching in the palace , as she had never ceased to do since her son had rode away .
She almost died of joy at seeing him again , but after a little she remembered his sick friend , and ordered a bed to be made ready and the best doctors in all the country to be sent for .
When they heard of the queen 's summons they flocked from all parts , but none could cure him .
After everyone had tried and failed a servant entered and informed the queen that a strange old man had just knocked at the palace gate and declared that he was able to heal the dying youth .
Now this was a holy man , who had heard of the trouble the king 's son was in , and had come to help .
It happened that at this very time a little daughter was born to the king 's son , but in his distress for his friend he had hardly a thought to spare for the baby .
He could not be prevailed on to leave the sick bed , and he was bending over it when the holy man entered the room .
` Do you wish your friend to be cured ? '
asked the new comer of the king 's son .
` And what price would you pay ? '
` What price ? '
answered the king 's son ; ` only tell me what I can do to heal him . '
` Listen to me , then , ' said the old man .
` This evening you must take your child , and open her veins , and smear the wounds of your friend with her blood .
And you will see , he will get well in an instant . '
At these words the king 's son shrieked with horror , for he loved the baby dearly , but he answered , ' I have sworn that I would treat my friend as if he were my brother , and if there is no other way my child must be sacrificed . '
As by this time evening had already fallen he took the child and opened its veins , and smeared the blood over the wounds of the sick man , and the look of death departed from him , and he grew strong and rosy once more .
But the little child lay as white and still as if she had been dead .
They laid her in the cradle and wept bitterly , for they thought that by the next morning she would be lost to them .
At sunrise the old man returned and asked after the sick man .
` He is as well as ever , ' answered the king 's son .
` And where is your baby ? '
` In the cradle yonder , and I think she is dead , ' replied the father sadly .
` Look at her once more , ' said the holy man , and as they drew near the cradle there lay the baby smiling up at them . '
I am St. James of Lizia , ' said the old man , ` and I have come to help you , for I have seen that you are a true friend .
From henceforward live happily , all of you , together , and if troubles should draw near you send for me , and I will aid you to get through them . '
With these words he lifted his hand in blessing and vanished .
And they obeyed him , and were happy and content , and tried to make the people of the land happy and contented too .
-LSB- From Sicilianische Mahrehen Gonzenbach . -RSB-
Clever Maria There was once a merchant who lived close to the royal palace , and had three daughters .
They were all pretty , but Maria , the youngest , was the prettiest of the three .
One day the king sent for the merchant , who was a widower , to give him directions about a journey he wished the good man to take .
The merchant would rather not have gone , as he did not like leaving his daughters at home , but he could not refuse to obey the king 's commands , and with a heavy heart he returned home to say farewell to them .
Before he left , he took three pots of basil , and gave one to each girl , saying , ' I am going a journey , but I leave these pots .
You must let nobody into the house .
When I come back , they will tell me what has happened . '
` Nothing will have happened , ' said the girls .
The father went away , and the following day the king , accompanied by two friends , paid a visit to the three girls , who were sitting at supper .
When they saw who was there , Maria said , ` Let us go and get a bottle of wine from the cellar .
I will carry the key , my eldest sister can take the light , while the other brings the bottle . '
But the king replied , ` Oh , do not trouble ; we are not thirsty . '
` Very well , we will not go , ' answered the two elder girls ; but Maria merely said , ' I shall go , anyhow . '
She left the room , and went to the hall where she put out the light , and putting down the key and the bottle , ran to the house of a neighbour , and knocked at the door .
` Who is there so late ? '
asked the old woman , thrusting her head out of the window .
` Oh , let me in , ' answered Maria . '
I have quarrelled with my eldest sister , and as I do not want to fight any more , I have come to beg you to allow me to sleep with you . '
So the old woman opened the door and Maria slept in her house .
The king was very angry at her for playing truant , but when she returned home the next day , she found the plants of her sisters withered away , because they had disobeyed their father .
Now the window in the room of the eldest overlooked the gardens of the king , and when she saw how fine and ripe the medlars were on the trees , she longed to eat some , and begged Maria to scramble down by a rope and pick her a few , and she would draw her up again .
Maria , who was good-natured , swung herself into the garden by the rope , and got the medlars , and was just making the rope fast under her arms so as to be hauled up , when her sister cried : ` Oh , there are such delicious lemons a little farther on .
You might bring me one or two . '
Maria turned round to pluck them , and found herself face to face with the gardener , who caught hold of her , exclaiming , ` What are you doing here , you little thief ? '
` Do n't call me names , ' she said , ` or you will get the worst of it , ' giving him as she spoke such a violent push that he fell panting into the lemon bushes .
Then she seized the cord and clambered up to the window .
The next day the second sister had a fancy for bananas and begged so hard , that , though Maria had declared she would never do such a thing again , at last she consented , and went down the rope into the king 's garden .
This time she met the king , who said to her , ` Ah , here you are again , cunning one !
Now you shall pay for your misdeeds . '
And he began to cross-question her about what she had done .
Maria denied nothing , and when she had finished , the king said again , ` Follow me to the house , and there you shall pay the penalty . '
As he spoke , he started for the house , looking back from time to time to make sure that Maria had not run away .
All of a sudden , when he glanced round , he found she had vanished completely , without leaving a trace of where she had gone .
Search was made all through the town , and there was not a hole or corner which was not ransacked , but there was no sign of her anywhere .
This so enraged the king that he became quite ill , and for many months his life was despaired of .
Meanwhile the two elder sisters had married the two friends of the king , and were the mothers of little daughters .
Now one day Maria stole secretly to the house where her elder sister lived , and snatching up the children put them into a beautiful basket she had with her , covered with flowers inside and out , so that no one would ever guess it held two babies .
Then she dressed herself as a boy , and placing the basket on her head , she walked slowly past the palace , crying as she went : ` Who will carry these flowers to the king , who lies sick of love ? '
And the king in his bed heard what she said , and ordered one of his attendants to go out and buy the basket .
It was brought to his bedside , and as he raised the lid cries were heard , and peeping in he saw two little children .
He was furious at this new trick which he felt had been played on him by Maria , and was still looking at them , wondering how he should pay her out , when he was told that the merchant , Maria 's father , had finished the business on which he had been sent and returned home .
Then the king remembered how Maria had refused to receive his visit , and how she had stolen his fruit , and he determined to be revenged on her .
So he sent a message by one of his pages that the merchant was to come to see him the next day , and bring with him a coat made of stone , or else he would be punished .
Now the poor man had been very sad since he got home the evening before , for though his daughters had promised that nothing should happen while he was away , he had found the two elder ones married without asking his leave .
And now there was this fresh misfortune , for how was he to make a coat of stone ?
He wrung his hands and declared that the king would be the ruin of him , when Maria suddenly entered .
` Do not grieve about the coat of stone , dear father ; but take this bit of chalk , and go to the palace and say you have come to measure the king . '
The old man did not see the use of this , but Maria had so often helped him before that he had confidence in her , so he put the chalk in his pocket and went to the palace .
` That is no good , ' said the king , when the merchant had told him what he had come for .
` Well , I ca n't make the coat you want , ' replied he .
` Then if you would save your head , hand over to me your daughter Maria . '
The merchant did not reply , but went sorrowfully back to his house , where Maria sat waiting for him .
` Oh , my dear child , why was I born ?
The king says that , instead of the coat , I must deliver you up to him . '
` Do not be unhappy , dear father , but get a doll made , exactly like me , with a string attached to its head , which I can pull for `` Yes '' and `` No . '' '
So the old man went out at once to see about it .
The king remained patiently in his palace , feeling sure that this time Maria could not escape him ; and he said to his pages , ` If a gentleman should come here with his daughter and ask to be allowed to speak with me , put the young lady in my room and see she does not leave it . '
When the door was shut on Maria , who had concealed the doll under her cloak , she hid herself under the couch , keeping fast hold of the string which was fastened to its head .
` Senhora Maria , I hope you are well , ' said the king when he entered the room .
The doll nodded .
` Now we will reckon up accounts , ' continued he , and he began at the beginning , and ended up with the flower-basket , and at each fresh misdeed Maria pulled the string , so that the doll 's head nodded assent .
` Who-so mocks at me merits death , ' declared the king when he had ended , and drawing his sword , cut off the doll 's head .
It fell towards him , and as he felt the touch of a kiss , he exclaimed , ` Ah , Maria , Maria , so sweet in death , so hard to me in life !
The man who could kill you deserves to die ! '
And he was about to turn his sword on himself , when the true Maria sprung out from under the bed , and flung herself into his arms .
And the next day they were married and lived happily for many years .
-LSB- From the Portuguese . -RSB-
The Magic Kettle Right in the middle of Japan , high up among the mountains , an old man lived in his little house .
He was very proud of it , and never tired of admiring the whiteness of his straw mats , and the pretty papered walls , which in warm weather always slid back , so that the smell of the trees and flowers might come in .
One day he was standing looking at the mountain opposite , when he heard a kind of rumbling noise in the room behind him .
He turned round , and in the corner he beheld a rusty old iron kettle , which could not have seen the light of day for many years .
How the kettle got there the old man did not know , but he took it up and looked it over carefully , and when he found that it was quite whole he cleaned the dust off it and carried it into his kitchen .
` That was a piece of luck , ' he said , smiling to himself ; ' a good kettle costs money , and it is as well to have a second one at hand in case of need ; mine is getting worn out , and the water is already beginning to come through its bottom . '
Then he took the other kettle off the fire , filled the new one with water , and put it in its place .
No sooner was the water in the kettle getting warm than a strange thing happened , and the man , who was standing by , thought he must be dreaming .
First the handle of the kettle gradually changed its shape and became a head , and the spout grew into a tail , while out of the body sprang four paws , and in a few minutes the man found himself watching , not a kettle , but a tanuki !
The creature jumped off the fire , and bounded about the room like a kitten , running up the walls and over the ceiling , till the old man was in an agony lest his pretty room should be spoilt .
He cried to a neighbour for help , and between them they managed to catch the tanuki , and shut him up safely in a wooden chest .
Then , quite exhausted , they sat down on the mats , and consulted together what they should do with this troublesome beast .
At length they decided to sell him , and bade a child who was passing send them a certain tradesman called Jimmu .
When Jimmu arrived , the old man told him that he had something which he wished to get rid of , and lifted the lid of the wooden chest , where he had shut up the tanuki .
But , to his surprise , no tanuki was there , nothing but the kettle he had found in the corner .
It was certainly very odd , but the man remembered what had taken place on the fire , and did not want to keep the kettle any more , so after a little bargaining about the price , Jimmu went away carrying the kettle with him .
Now Jimmu had not gone very far before he felt that the kettle was getting heavier and heavier , and by the time he reached home he was so tired that he was thankful to put it down in the corner of his room , and then forgot all about it .
In the middle of the night , however , he was awakened by a loud noise in the corner where the kettle stood , and raised himself up in bed to see what it was .
But nothing was there except the kettle , which seemed quiet enough .
He thought that he must have been dreaming , and fell asleep again , only to be roused a second time by the same disturbance .
He jumped up and went to the corner , and by the light of the lamp that he always kept burning he saw that the kettle had become a tanuki , which was running round after his tail .
After he grew weary of that , he ran on the balcony , where he turned several somersaults , from pure gladness of heart .
The tradesman was much troubled as to what to do with the animal , and it was only towards morning that he managed to get any sleep ; but when he opened his eyes again there was no tanuki , only the old kettle he had left there the night before .
As soon as he had tidied his house , Jimmu set off to tell his story to a friend next door .
The man listened quietly , and did not appear so surprised as Jimmu expected , for he recollected having heard , in his youth , something about a wonder-working kettle .
` Go and travel with it , and show it off , ' said he , ` and you will become a rich man ; but be careful first to ask the tanuki 's leave , and also to perform some magic ceremonies to prevent him from running away at the sight of the people . '
Jimmu thanked his friend for his counsel , which he followed exactly .
The tanuki 's consent was obtained , a booth was built , and a notice was hung up outside it inviting the people to come and witness the most wonderful transformation that ever was seen .
They came in crowds , and the kettle was passed from hand to hand , and they were allowed to examine it all over , and even to look inside .
Then Jimmu took it back , and setting it on the platform , commanded it to become a tanuki .
In an instant the handle began to change into a head , and the spout into a tail , while the four paws appeared at the sides .
` Dance , ' said Jimmu , and the tanuki did his steps , and moved first on one side and then on the other , till the people could not stand still any longer , and began to dance too .
Gracefully he led the fan dance , and glided without a pause into the shadow dance and the umbrella dance , and it seemed as if he might go on dancing for ever .
And so very likely he would , if Jimmu had not declared he had danced enough , and that the booth must now be closed .
Day after day the booth was so full it was hardly possible to enter it , and what the neighbour foretold had come to pass , and Jimmu was a rich man .
Yet he did not feel happy .
He was an honest man , and he thought that he owed some of his wealth to the man from whom he had bought the kettle .
So , one morning , he put a hundred gold pieces into it , and hanging the kettle once more on his arm , he returned to the seller of it . '
I have no right to keep it any longer , ' he added when he had ended his tale , ` so I have brought it back to you , and inside you will find a hundred gold pieces as the price of its hire . '
The man thanked Jimmu , and said that few people would have been as honest as he .
And the kettle brought them both luck , and everything went well with them till they died , which they did when they were very old , respected by everyone .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Lilac_Fairy_Book.txt.out
The Shifty Lad In the land of Erin there dwelt long ago a widow who had an only son .
He was a clever boy , so she saved up enough money to send him to school , and , as soon as he was old enough , to apprentice him to any trade that he would choose .
But when the time came , he said he would not be bound to any trade , and that he meant to be a thief .
Now his mother was very sorrowful when she heard of this , but she knew quite well that if she tried to stop his having his own way he would only grow more determined to get it .
So all the answer she made was that the end of thieves was hanging at the bridge of Dublin , and then she left him alone , hoping that when he was older he might become more sensible .
One day she was going to church to hear a sermon from a great preacher , and she begged the Shifty Lad , as the neighbours called him from the tricks he played , to come with her .
But he only laughed and declared that he did not like sermons , adding : ` However , I will promise you this , that the first trade you hear named after you come out from church shall be my trade for the rest of my life . '
These words gave a little comfort to the poor woman , and her heart was lighter than before as she bade him farewell .
When the Shifty Lad thought that the hour had nearly come for the sermon to be over , he hid himself in some bushes in a little path that led straight to his mother 's house , and , as she passed along , thinking of all the good things she had heard , a voice shouted close to her ear ` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! '
The suddenness of it made her jump .
The naughty boy had managed to change his voice , so that she did not know it for his , and he had concealed himself so well that , though she peered about all round her , she could see no one .
As soon as she had turned the corner the Shifty Lad came out , and by running very fast through the wood he contrived to reach home before his mother , who found him stretched out comfortably before the fire .
` Well , have you got any news to tell me ? '
asked he .
` No , nothing ; for I left the church at once , and did not stop to speak to anyone . '
` Oh , then no one has mentioned a trade to you ? '
he said in tones of disappointment .
` Ye -- es , ' she replied slowly .
` At least , as I walked down the path a voice cried out `` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! ''
but that was all . '
` And quite enough too , ' answered the boy .
` What did I tell you ?
That is going to be my trade . '
` Then your end will be hanging at the bridge of Dublin , ' said she .
But there was no sleep for her that night , for she lay in the dark thinking about her son .
` If he is to be a thief at all , he had better be a good one .
And who is there that can teach him ? '
the mother asked herself .
But an idea came to her , and she arose early , before the sun was up , and set off for the home of the Black Rogue , or Gallows Bird , who was such a wonderful thief that , though all had been robbed by him , no one could catch him .
` Good-morning to you , ' said the woman as she reached the place where the Black Gallows Bird lived when he was not away on his business .
` My son has a fancy to learn your trade .
Will you be kind enough to teach him ? '
` If he is clever , I do n't mind trying , ' answered the Black Gallows Bird ; ` and , of course , if ANY one can turn him into a first-rate thief , it is I .
But if he is stupid , it is of no use at all ; I ca n't bear stupid people . '
` No , he is n't stupid , ' said the woman with a sigh .
` So to-night , after dark , I will send him to you . '
The Shifty Lad jumped for joy when his mother told him where she had been . '
I will become the best thief in all Erin ! '
he cried , and paid no heed when his mother shook her head and murmured something about ` the bridge of Dublin . '
Every evening after dark the Shifty Lad went to the home of the Black Gallows Bird , and many were the new tricks he learned .
By-and-by he was allowed to go out with the Bird and watch him at work , and at last there came a day when his master though that he had grown clever enough to help in a big robbery .
` There is a rich farmer up there on the hill , who has just sold all his fat cattle for much money and has bought some lean ones which will cost him little .
Now it happens that , while he has received the money for the fat cattle , he has not yet paid the price of the thin ones , which he has in the cowhouse .
To-morrow he will go to the market with the money in his hand , so to-night we must get at the chest .
When all is quiet we will hide in the loft . '
There was no moon , and it was the night of Hallowe'en , and everyone was burning nuts and catching apples in a tub of water with their hands tied , and playing all sorts of other games , till the Shifty Lad grew quite tired of waiting for them to get to bed .
The Black Gallows Bird , who was more accustomed to the business , tucked himself up on the hay and went to sleep , telling the boy to wake him when the merry-makers had departed .
But the Shifty Lad , who could keep still no longer , crept down to the cowshed and loosened the heads of the cattle which were tied , and they began to kick each other and bellow , and made such a noise that the company in the farmhouse ran out to tie them up again .
Then the Shifty Lad entered the room and picked up a big handful of nuts , and returned to the loft , where the Black Rogue was still sleeping .
At first the Shifty Lad shut his eyes too , but very soon he sat up , and taking a big needle and thread from his pocket , he sewed the hem of the Black Gallows Bird 's coat to a heavy piece of bullock 's hide that was hanging at his back .
By this time the cattle were all tied up again , but as the people could not find their nuts they sat round the fire and began to tell stories . '
I will crack a nut , ' said the Shifty Lad .
` You shall not , ' cried the Black Gallows Bird ; ` they will hear you . ' '
I do n't care , ' answered the Shifty Lad . '
I never spend Hallowe'en yet without cracking a nut ' ; and he cracked one .
` Some one is cracking nuts up there , ' said one of the merry-makers in the farmhouse .
` Come quickly , and we will see who it is . '
He spoke loudly , and the Black Gallows Bird heard , and ran out of the loft , dragging the big leather hide after him which the Shifty Lad had sewed to his coat .
` He is stealing my hide ! '
shouted the farmer , and they all darted after him ; but he was too swift for them , and at last he managed to tear the hide from his coat , and then he flew like a hare till he reached his old hiding-place .
But all this took a long time , and meanwhile the Shifty Lad got down from the loft , and searched the house till he found the chest with the gold and silver in it , concealed behind a load of straw and covered with loaves of bread and a great cheese .
The Shifty Lad slung the money bags round his shoulders and took the bread and the cheese under his arm , then set out quietly for the Black Rogue 's house .
` Here you are at last , you villain ! '
cried his master in great wrath .
` But I will be revenged on you . '
` It is all right , ' replied the Shifty Lad calmly . '
I have brought what you wanted ' ; and he laid the things he was carrying down on the ground .
` Ah !
you are the better thief , ' said the Black Rogue 's wife ; and the Black Rogue added : ` Yes , it is you who are the clever boy ' ; and they divided the spoil and the Black Gallows Bird had one half and the Shifty Lad the other half .
A few weeks after that the Black Gallows Bird had news of a wedding that was to be held near the town ; and the bridegroom had many friends and everybody sent him a present .
Now a rich farmer who lived up near the moor thought that nothing was so useful to a young couple when they first began to keep house as a fine fat sheep , so he bade his shepherd go off to the mountain where the flock were feeding , and bring him back the best he could find .
And the shepherd chose out the largest and fattest of the sheep and the one with the whitest fleece ; then he tied its feet together and put it across his shoulder , for he had a long way to go .
That day , the Shifty Lad happened to be wandering over the moor , when he saw the man with the sheep on his shoulder walking along the road which led past the Black Rogue 's house .
The sheep was heavy and the man was in no hurry , so he came slowly and the boy knew that he himself could easily get back to his master before the shepherd was even in sight . '
I will wager , ' he cried , as he pushed quickly through the bushes which hid the cabin -- ' I will wager that I will steal the sheep from the man that is coming before he passes here . '
` Will you indeed ? '
said the Gallows Bird . '
I will wager you a hundred silver pieces that you can do nothing of the sort . '
` Well , I will try it , anyway , ' replied the boy , and disappeared in the bushes .
He ran fast till he entered a wood through which the shepherd must go , and then he stopped , and taking off one of his shoes smeared it with mud and set it in the path .
When this was done he slipped behind a rock and waited .
Very soon the man came up , and seeing the shoe lying there , he stooped and looked at it .
` It is a good shoe , ' he said to himself , ` but very dirty .
Still , if I had the fellow , I would be at the trouble of cleaning it ' ; so he threw the shoe down again and went on .
The Shifty Lad smiled as he heard him , and , picking up the shoe , he crept round by a short way and laid the other shoe on the path .
A few minutes after the shepherd arrived , and beheld the second shoe lying on the path .
` Why , that is the fellow of the dirty shoe ! '
he exclaimed when he saw it . '
I will go back and pick up the other one , and then I shall have a pair of good shoes , ' and he put the sheep on the grass and returned to fetch the shoe .
Then the Shifty Lad put on his shoes , and , picking up the sheep , carried it home .
And the Black Rogue paid him the hundred marks of his wager .
When the shepherd reached the farmhouse that night he told his tale to his master , who scolded him for being stupid and careless , and bade him go the next day to the mountain and fetch him a kid , and he would send that as a wedding gift .
But the Shifty Lad was on the look-out , and hid himself in the wood , and the moment the man drew near with the kid on his shoulders began to bleat like a sheep , and no one , not even the sheep 's own mother , could have told the difference .
` Why , it must have got its feet loose , and have strayed after all , ' thought the man ; and he put the kid on the grass and hurried off in the direction of the bleating .
Then the boy ran back and picked up the kid , and took it to the Black Gallows Bird .
The shepherd could hardly believe his eyes when he returned from seeking the sheep and found that the kid had vanished .
He was afraid to go home and tell the same tale that he had told yesterday ; so he searched the wood through and through till night was nearly come .
Then he felt that there was no help for it , and he must go home and confess to his master .
Of course , the farmer was very angry at this second misfortune ; but this time he told him to drive one of the big bulls from the mountain , and warned him that if he lost THAT he would lose his place also .
Again the Shifty Lad , who was on the watch , perceived him pass by , and when he saw the man returning with the great bull he cried to the Black Rogue : ` Be quick and come into the wood , and we will try to get the bull also . '
` But how can we do that ? '
asked the Black Rogue .
` Oh , quite easily !
You hide yourself out there and baa like a sheep , and I will go in the other direction and bleat like a kid .
It will be all right , I assure you . '
The shepherd was walking slowly , driving the bull before him , when he suddenly heard a loud baa amongst the bushes far away on one side of the path , and a feeble bleat answering it from the other side .
` Why , it must be the sheep and the kid that I lost , ' said he .
` Yes , surely it must ' ; and tying the bull hastily to a tree , he went off after the sheep and the kid , and searched the wood till he was tired .
Of course by the time he came back the two thieves had driven the bull home and killed him for meat , so the man was obliged to go to his master and confess that he had been tricked again .
After this the Black Rogue and the Shifty Lad grew bolder and bolder , and stole great quantities of cattle and sold them and grew quite rich .
One day they were returning from the market with a large sum of money in their pockets when they passed a gallows erected on the top of a hill .
` Let us stop and look at that gallows , ' exclaimed the Shifty Lad . '
I have never seen one so close before .
Yet some say that it is the end of all thieves . '
There was no one in sight , and they carefully examined every part of it . '
I wonder how it feels to be hanged , ' said the Shifty Lad . '
I should like to know , in case they ever catch me .
I 'll try first , and then you can do so . '
As he spoke he fastened the loose cord about his neck , and when it was quite secure he told the Black Rogue to take the other end of the rope and draw him up from the ground .
` When I am tired of it I will shake my legs , and then you must let me down , ' said he .
The Black Rogue drew up the rope , but in half a minute the Shifty Lad 's legs began to shake , and he quickly let it down again .
` You ca n't imagine what a funny feeling hanging gives you , ' murmured the Shifty Lad , who looked rather purple in the face and spoke in an odd voice . '
I do n't think you have every tried it , or you would n't have let me go up first .
Why , it is the pleasantest thing I have ever done .
I was shaking my legs from sheer delight , and if you had been there you would have shaken your legs too . '
` Well , let me try , if it is so nice , ' answered the Black Rogue .
` But be sure you tie the knot securely , for I do n't want to fall down and break my neck . '
` Oh , I will see to that ! '
replied the Shifty Lad .
` When you are tired , just whistle , and I 'll let you down . '
So the Black Rogue was drawn up , and as soon as he was as high as the rope would allow him to go the Shifty Lad called to him : ` Do n't forest to whistle when you want to come down ; but if you are enjoying yourself as I did , shake your legs . '
And in a moment the Black Rogue 's legs began to shake and to kick , and the Shifty Lad stood below , watching him and laughing heartily .
` Oh , how funny you are !
If you could only see yourself !
Oh , you ARE funny !
But when you have had enough , whistle and you shall be let down ' ; and he rocked again with laughter .
But no whistle came , and soon the legs ceased to shake and to kick , for the Black Gallows Bird was dead , as the Shifty Lad intended he should be .
Then he went home to the Black Rogue 's wife , and told her that her husband was dead , and that he was ready to marry her if she liked .
But the woman had been fond of the Black Rogue , thief though he was , and she shrank from the Shifty Lad in horror , and set the people after him , and he had to fly to another part of the country where none knew of his doings .
Perhaps if the Shifty Lad 's mother knew anything of this , she may have thought that by this time her son might be tired of stealing , and ready to try some honest trade .
But in reality he loved the tricks and danger , and life would have seemed very dull without them .
So he went on just as before , and made friends whom he taught to be as wicked as himself , till they took to robbing the king 's storehouses , and by the advice of the Wise Man the king sent out soldiers to catch the band of thieves .
For a long while they tried in vain to lay hands on them .
The Shifty Lad was too clever for them all , and if they laid traps he laid better ones .
At last one night he stole upon some soldiers while they were asleep in a barn and killed them , and persuaded the villagers that if THEY did not kill the other soldiers before morning they would certainly be killed themselves .
Thus it happened that when the sun rose not a single soldier was alive in the village .
Of course this news soon reached the king 's ears , and he was very angry , and summoned the Wise Man to take counsel with him .
And this was the counsel of the Wise Man -- that he should invite all the people in the countryside to a ball , and among them the bold and impudent thief would be sure to come , and would be sure to ask the king 's daughter to dance with him .
` Your counsel is good , ' said the king , who made his feast and prepared for his ball ; and all the people of the countryside were present , and the Shifty Lad came with them .
When everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted they went into the ballroom .
There was a great throng , and while they were pressing through the doorway the Wise Man , who had a bottle of black ointment hidden in his robes , placed a tiny dot on the cheek of the Shifty Lad near his ear .
The Shifty Lad felt nothing , but as he approached the king 's daughter to ask her to be his partner he caught sight of the black dot in a silver mirror .
Instantly he guessed who had put it there and why , but he said nothing , and danced so beautifully that the princess was quite delighted with him .
At the end of the dance he bowed low to his partner and left her , to mingle with the crowd that was filling the doorway .
As he passed the Wise Man he contrived not only to steal the bottle but to place two black dots on his face , and one on the faces of twenty other men .
Then he slipped the bottle back in the Wise Man 's robe .
By-and-by he went up to the king 's daughter again , and begged for the honour of another dance .
She consented , and while he was stooping to tie the ribbons on his shoe she took out from her pocket another bottle , which the Wizard had given her , and put a black dot on his cheek .
But she was not as skilful as the Wise Man , and the Shifty Lad felt the touch of her fingers ; so as soon as the dance was over he contrived to place a second black dot on the faces of the twenty men and two more on the Wizard , after which he slipped the bottle into her pocket .
At length the ball came to an end , and then the king ordered all the doors to be shut , and search made for a man with two black dots on his cheek .
The chamberlain went among the guests , and soon found such a man , but just as he was going to arrest him and bring him before the king his eye fell on another with the same mark , and another , and another , till he had counted twenty -- besides the Wise Man -- on whose face were found spots .
Not knowing what to do , the chamberlain hurried back with his tale to the king , who immediately sent for the Wise Man , and then for his daughter .
` The thief must have stolen your bottle , ' said the king to the Wizard .
` No , my lord , it is here , ' answered the Wise Man , holding it out .
` Then he must have got yours , ' he cried , turning to his daughter .
` Indeed , father , it is safe in my pocket , ' replied she , taking it out as she spoke ; and they all three looked at each other and remained silent .
` Well , ' said the king at last , ` the man who has done this is cleverer than most men , and if he will make himself known to me he shall marry the princess and govern half my kingdom while I am alive , and the whole of it when I am dead .
Go and announce this in the ballroom , ' he added to an attendant , ` and bring the fellow hither . '
So the attendant went into the ballroom and did as the king had bidden him , when , to his surprise , not one man , but twenty , stepped forward , all with black dots on their faces . '
I am the person you want , ' they all exclaimed at once , and the attendant , as much bewildered as the chamberlain had been , desired them to follow him into the king 's presence .
But the question was too difficult for the king to decide , so he called together his council .
For hours they talked , but to no purpose , and in the end they hit upon a plan which they might just as well have thought of at the beginning .
And this was the plan .
A child was to be brought to the palace , and next the king 's daughter would give her an apple .
Then the child was to take the apple and be led into a room where the twenty men with the black dots were sitting in a ring .
And to whomsoever the child gave the apple , that man should marry the king 's daughter .
` Of course , ' said the king , ` it may not be the right man , after all , but then again it MAY be .
Anyhow , it is the best we can do . '
The princess herself led the child into the room where the twenty men were now seated .
She stood in the centre of the ring for a moment , looking at one man after another , and then held out the apple to the Shifty Lad , who was twisting a shaving of wood round his finger , and had the mouthpiece of a bagpipe hanging from his neck .
` You ought not to have anything which the others have not got , ' said the chamberlain , who had accompanied the princess ; and he bade the child stand outside for a minute , while he took away the shaving and the mouthpiece , and made the Shifty Lad change his place .
Then he called the child in , but the little girl knew him again , and went straight up to him with the apple .
` This is the man whom the child has twice chosen , ' said the chamberlain , signing to the Shifty Lad to kneel before the king .
` It was all quite fair ; we tried it twice over . '
In this way the Shifty Lad won the king 's daughter , and they were married the next day .
A few days later the bride and bridegroom were taking a walk together , and the path led down to the river , and over the river was a bridge .
` And what bridge may this be ? '
asked the Shifty Lad ; and the princess told him that this was the bridge of Dublin .
` Is it indeed ? '
cried he .
` Well , now , many is the time that my mother has said , when I played her a trick , that my end would be that I should hang on the bridge of Dublin . '
` Oh , if you want to fulfil her prophecies , ' laughed the princess , ` you have only to let me tie my handkerchief round your ankle , and I will hold you as you hang over the wall of the bridge . '
` That would be fine fun , ' said he ; ` but you are not strong enough to hold me up . '
` Oh , yes , I am , ' said the princess ; ` just try . '
So at last he let her bind the handkerchief round his ankle and hang him over the wall , and they both laughed and jested at the strength of the princess .
` Now pull me up again , ' called he ; but as he spoke a great cry arose that the palace was burning .
The princess turned round with a start , and let go her handkerchief , and the Shifty Lad fell , and struck his head on a stone , and died in an instant .
So his mother 's prophecy had come true , after all .
West Highland Tales .
The False Prince and the True The king had just awakened from his midday sleep , for it was summer , and everyone rose early and rested from twelve to three , as they do in hot countries .
He had dressed himself in cool white clothes , and was passing through the hall on his way to the council chamber , when a number of young nobles suddenly appeared before him , and one amongst them stepped forward and spoke .
` Sire , this morning we were all playing tennis in the court , the prince and this gentleman with the rest , when there broke out some dispute about the game .
The prince lost his temper , and said many insulting things to the other , who was playing against him , till at length the gentleman whom you see there struck him violently in the face , so that the blood ran from his mouth and nose .
We were all so horrified at the sight , that we should most likely have killed the man then and there , for daring to lay hands on the prince , had not his grandfather the duke stepped between and commanded us to lay the affair before you . '
The king had listened attentively to the story , and when it was ended he said : ' I suppose the prince had no arms with him , or else he would have used them ? '
` Yes , sire , he had arms ; he always carries a dagger in his belt .
But when he saw the blood pouring from his face , he went to a corner of the court and began to cry , which was the strangest thing of all . '
On hearing this the king walked to the window and stood for a few minutes with his back to the room , where the company of young men remained silent .
Then he came back , his face white and stern . '
I tell you , ' he said , ` and it is the solemn truth , that I would rather you had told me that the prince was dead , though he is my only son , than know that he would suffer such an injury without attempting to avenge it .
As for the gentleman who struck him , he will be brought before my judges , and will plead his own cause , but I hardly think he can escape death , after having assaulted the heir to the crown . '
The young man raised his head as if to reply , but the king would not listen , and commanded his guards to put him under arrest , adding , however , that if the prisoner wished to visit any part of the city , he was at liberty to do so properly guarded , and in fifteen days he would be brought to trial before the highest judges in the land .
The young man left the king 's presence , surrounded by soldiers , and accompanied by many of his friends , for he was a great favourite .
By their advice he spent the fourteen days that remained to him going about to seek counsel from wise men of all sorts , as to how he might escape death , but no one could help him , for none could find any excuse for the blow he had given to the prince .
The fourteenth night had come , and in despair the prisoner went out to take his last walk through the city .
He wandered on hardly knowing where he went , and his face was so white and desperate that none of his companions dared speak to him .
The sad little procession had passed some hours in this manner , when , near the gate of a monastery , an old woman appeared round a corner , and suddenly stood before the young man .
She was bent almost double , and was so wizened and wrinkled that she looked at least ninety ; only her eyes were bright and quick as those of a girl .
` Sir , ' she said , ' I know all that has happened to you , and how you are seeking if in any wise you can save your life .
But there is none that can answer that question save only I myself , if you will promise to do all I ask . '
At her words the prisoner felt as if a load had all at once been rolled off him .
` Oh , save me , and I will do anything ! '
he cried .
` It is so hard to leave the world and go out into the darkness . '
` You will not need to do that , ' answered the old woman , ` you have only got to marry me , and you will soon be free . '
` Marry you ? '
exclaimed he , ` but -- but -- I am not yet twenty , and you -- why , you must be a hundred at least !
Oh , no , it is quite impossible . '
He spoke without thinking , but the flash of anger which darted from her eyes made him feel uncomfortable .
However , all she said was : ` As you like ; since you reject me , let the crows have you , ' and hurried away down the street .
Left to himself , the full horror of his coming death rushed upon the young man , and he understood that he had thrown away his sole chance of life .
Well , if he must , he must , he said to himself , and began to run as fast as he could after the old crone , who by this time could scarcely be seen , even in the moonlight .
Who would have believed a woman past ninety could walk with such speed ?
It seemed more like flying !
But at length , breathless and exhausted , he reached her side , and gasped out : ` Madam , pardon me for my hasty words just now ; I was wrong , and will thankfully accept the offer you made me . '
` Ah , I thought you would come to your senses , ' answered she , in rather an odd voice .
` We have no time to lose -- follow me at once , ' and they went on silently and swiftly till they stopped at the door of a small house in which the priest lived .
Before him the old woman bade the prisoner swear that she should be his wife , and this he did in the presence of witnesses .
Then , begging the priest and the guards to leave them alone for a little , she told the young man what he was to do , when the next morning he was brought before the king and the judges .
The hall was full to overflowing when the prisoner entered it , and all marvelled at the brightness of his face .
The king inquired if he had any excuse to plead for the high treason he had committed by striking the heir to the throne , and , if so , to be quick in setting it forth .
With a low bow the youth made answer in a clear voice : ' O my lord and gracious king , and you , nobles and wise men of the land , I leave my cause without fear in your hands , knowing that you will listen and judge rightly , and that you will suffer me to speak to the end , before you give judgment .
` For four years , you , O king , had been married to the queen and yet had no children , which grieved you greatly .
The queen saw this , and likewise that your love was going from her , and thought night and day of some plan that might put an end to this evil .
At length , when you were away fighting in distant countries , she decided what she would do , and adopted in secret the baby of a poor quarryman , sending a messenger to tell you that you had a son .
No one suspected the truth except a priest to whom the queen confessed the truth , and in a few weeks she fell ill and died , leaving the baby to be brought up as became a prince .
And now , if your highness will permit me , I will speak of myself . '
` What you have already told me , ' answered the king , ` is so strange that I can not imagine what more there is to tell , but go on with your story . '
` One day , shortly after the death of the queen , ' continued the young man , ` your highness was hunting , and outstripped all your attendants while chasing the deer .
You were in a part of the country which you did not know , so seeing an orchard all pink and white with apple-blossoms , and a girl tossing a ball in one corner , you went up to her to ask your way .
But when she turned to answer you , you were so struck with her beauty that all else fled from your mind .
Again and again you rode back to see her , and at length persuaded her to marry you .
She only thought you a poor knight , and agreed that as you wished it , the marriage should be kept secret .
` After the ceremony you gave her three rings and a charm with a cross on it , and then put her in a cottage in the forest , thinking to hide the matter securely .
` For some months you visited the cottage every week ; but a rebellion broke out in a distant part of the kingdom , and called for your presence .
When next you rode up to the cottage , it was empty , and none could inform you whither your bride had gone .
That , sire , I can now tell you , ' and the young man paused and looked at the king , who coloured deeply .
` She went back to her father the old duke , once your chamberlain , and the cross on her breast revealed at once who you were .
Fierce was his anger when he heard his daughter 's tale , and he vowed that he would hide her safely from you , till the day when you would claim her publicly as your queen .
` By and bye I was born , and was brought up by my grandfather in one of his great houses .
Here are the rings you gave to my mother , and here is the cross , and these will prove if I am your son or not . '
As he spoke the young man laid the jewels at the feet of the king , and the nobles and the judges pressed round to examine them .
The king alone did not move from his seat , for he had forgotten the hall of justice and all about him , and saw only the apple-orchard , as it was twenty years ago , and the beautiful girl playing at ball .
A sudden silence round him made him look up , and he found the eyes of the assembly fixed on him .
` It is true ; it is he who is my son , and not the other , ' he said with an effort , ` and let every man present swear to acknowledge him as king , after my death . '
Therefore one by one they all knelt before him and took the oath , and a message was sent to the false prince , forbidding him ever again to appear at court , though a handsome pension was granted him .
At last the ceremony was over , and the king , signing to his newly found son to follow him , rose and went into another room .
` Tell me how you knew all that , ' he said , throwing himself into a carved chair filled with crimson cushions , and the prince told of his meeting with the old woman who had brought him the jewels from his mother , and how he had sworn before a priest to marry her , though he did not want to do it , on account of the difference in their ages , and besides , he would rather receive a bride chosen by the king himself .
But the king frowned , and answered sharply : ` You swore to marry her if she saved your life , and , come what may , you must fulfil your promise . '
Then , striking a silver shield that hung close by , he said to the equerry who appeared immediately : ` Go and seek the priest who lives near the door of the prison , and ask him where you can find the old woman who visited him last night ; and when you have found her , bring her to the palace . '
It took some time to discover the whereabouts of the old woman , but at length it was accomplished , and when she arrived at the palace with the equerry , she was received with royal honours , as became the bride of the prince .
The guards looked at each other with astonished eyes , as the wizened creature , bowed with age , passed between their lines ; but they were more amazed still at the lightness of her step as she skipped up the steps to the great door before which the king was standing , with the prince at his side .
If they both felt a shock at the appearance of the aged lady they did not show it , and the king , with a grave bow , took her band , and led her to the chapel , where a bishop was waiting to perform the marriage ceremony .
For the next few weeks little was seen of the prince , who spent all his days in hunting , and trying to forget the old wife at home .
As for the princess , no one troubled himself about her , and she passed the days alone in her apartments , for she had absolutely declined the services of the ladies-in-waiting whom the king had appointed for her .
One night the prince returned after a longer chase than usual , and he was so tired that he went up straight to bed .
Suddenly he was awakened by a strange noise in the room , and suspecting that a robber might have stolen in , he jumped out of bed , and seized his sword , which lay ready to his hand .
Then he perceived that the noise proceeded from the next room , which belonged to the princess , and was lighted by a burning torch .
Creeping softly to the door , he peeped through it , and beheld her lying quietly , with a crown of gold and pearls upon her head , her wrinkles all gone , and her face , which was whiter than the snow , as fresh as that of a girl of fourteen .
Could that really be his wife -- that beautiful , beautiful creature ?
The prince was still gazing in surprise when the lady opened her eyes and smiled at him .
` Yes , I really am your wife , ' she said , as if she had guessed his thoughts , ` and the enchantment is ended .
Now I must tell you who I am , and what befell to cause me to take the shape of an old woman .
` The king of Granada is my father , and I was born in the palace which overlooks the plain of the Vega .
I was only a few months old when a wicked fairy , who had a spite against my parents , cast a spell over me , bending my back and wrinkling my skin till I looked as if I was a hundred years old , and making me such an object of disgust to everyone , that at length the king ordered my nurse to take my away from the palace .
She was the only person who cared about me , and we lived together in this city on a small pension allowed me by the king .
` When I was about three an old man arrived at our house , and begged my nurse to let him come in and rest , as he could walk no longer .
She saw that he was very ill , so put him to bed and took such care of him that by and bye he was as strong as ever .
In gratitude for her goodness to him , he told her that he was a wizard and could give her anything she chose to ask for , except life or death , so she answered that what she longed for most in the world was that my wrinkled skin should disappear , and that I should regain the beauty with which I was born .
To this he replied that as my misfortune resulted from a spell , this was rather difficult , but he would do his best , and at any rate he could promise that before my fifteenth birthday I should be freed from the enchantment if I could get a man who would swear to marry me as I was .
` As you may suppose , this was not easy , as my ugliness was such that no one would look at me a second time .
My nurse and I were almost in despair , as my fifteenth birthday was drawing near , and I had never so much as spoken to a man .
At last we received a visit from the wizard , who told us what had happened at court , and your story , bidding me to put myself in your way when you had lost all hope , and offer to save you if you would consent to marry me .
` That is my history , and now you must beg the king to send messengers at once to Granada , to inform my father of our marriage , and I think , ' she added with a smile , ` that he will not refuse us his blessing . '
Adapted from the Portuguese .
The Jogi 's Punishment Once upon a time there came to the ancient city of Rahmatabad a jogi -LSB- FN # 1 : A Hindu holy man . -RSB-
of holy appearance , who took up his abode under a tree outside the city , where he would sit for days at a time fasting from food and drink , motionless except for the fingers that turned restlessly his string of beads .
The fame of such holiness as this soon spread , and daily the citizens would flock to see him , eager to get his blessing , to watch his devotions , or to hear his teaching , if he were in the mood to speak .
Very soon the rajah himself heard of the jogi , and began regularly to visit him to seek his counsel and to ask his prayers that a son might be vouchsafed to him .
Days passed by , and at last the rajah became so possessed with the thought of the holy man that he determined if possible to get him all to himself .
So he built in the neighbourhood a little shrine , with a room or two added to it , and a small courtyard closely walled up ; and , when all was ready , besought the jogi to occupy it , and to receive no other visitors except himself and his queen and such pupils as the jogi might choose , who would hand down his teaching .
To this the jogi consented ; and thus he lived for some time upon the king 's bounty , whilst the fame of his godliness grew day by day .
Now , although the rajah of Rahmatabad had no son , he possessed a daughter , who as she grew up became the most beautiful creature that eye ever rested upon .
Her father had long before betrothed her to the son of the neighbouring rajah of Dilaram , but as yet she had not been married to him , and lived the quiet life proper to a maiden of her beauty and position .
The princess had of course heard of the holy man and of his miracles and his fasting , and she was filled with curiosity to see and to speak to him ; but this was difficult , since she was not allowed to go out except into the palace grounds , and then was always closely guarded .
However , at length she found an opportunity , and made her way one evening alone to the hermit 's shrine .
Unhappily , the hermit was not really as holy as he seemed ; for no sooner did he see the princess than he fell in love with her wonderful beauty , and began to plot in his heart how he could win her for his wife .
But the maiden was not only beautiful , she was also shrewd ; and as soon as she read in the glance of the jogi the love that filled his soul , she sprang to her feet , and , gathering her veil about her , ran from the place as fast as she could .
The jogi tried to follow , but he was no match for her ; so , beside himself with rage at finding that he could not overtake her , he flung at her a lance , which wounded her in the leg .
The brave princess stooped for a second to pluck the lance out of the wound , and then ran on until she found herself safe at home again .
There she bathed and bound up the wound secretly , and told no one how naughty she had been , for she knew that her father would punish her severely .
Next day , when the king went to visit the jogi , the holy man would neither speak to nor look at him .
` What is the matter ? '
asked the king .
` Wo n't you speak to me to-day ? ' '
I have nothing to say that you would care to hear , ' answered the jogi .
` Why ? '
said the king .
` Surely you know that I value all that you say , whatever it may be . '
But still the jogi sat with his face turned away , and the more the king pressed him the more silent and mysterious he became .
At last , after much persuasion , he said : ` Let me tell you , then , that there is in this city a creature which , if you do not put an end to it , will kill every single person in the place . '
The king , who was easily frightened , grew pale .
` What ? '
he gasped -- ` what is this dreadful thing ?
How am I to know it and to catch it ?
Only counsel me and help me , and I will do all that you advise . '
` Ah ! '
replied the jogi , ` it is indeed dreadful .
It is in the shape of a beautiful girl , but it is really an evil spirit .
Last evening it came to visit me , and when I looked upon it its beauty faded into hideousness , its teeth became horrible fangs , its eyes glared like coals of fire , great claws sprang from its slender fingers , and were I not what I am it might have consumed me . '
The king could hardly speak from alarm , but at last he said : ` How am I to distinguish this awful thing when I see it ? '
` Search , ' said the jogi , ` for a lovely girl with a lance wound in her leg , and when she is found secure her safely and come and tell me , and I will advise you what to do next . '
Away hurried the king , and soon set all his soldiers scouring the country for a girl with a lance wound in her left .
For two days the search went on , and then it was somehow discovered that the only person with a lance wound in the leg was the princess herself .
The king , greatly agitated , went off to tell the jogi , and to assure him that there must be some mistake .
But of course the jogi was prepared for this , and had his answer ready .
` She is not really your daughter , who was stolen away at her birth , but an evil spirit that has taken her form , ' said he solemnly .
` You can do what you like , but if you do n't take my advice she will kill you all . '
And so solemn he appeared , and so unshaken in his confidence , that the king 's wisdom was blinded , and he declared that he would do whatever the jogi advised , and believe whatever he said .
So the jogi directed him to send him secretly two carpenters ; and when they arrived he set them to make a great chest , so cunningly jointed and put together that neither air nor water could penetrate it .
There and then the chest was made , and , when it was ready , the jogi bade the king to bring the princess by night ; and they two thrust the poor little maiden into the chest and fastened it down with long nails , and between them carried it to the river and pushed it out into the stream .
As soon as the jogi got back from this deed he called two of his pupils , and pretended that it had been revealed to him that there should be found floating on the river a chest with something of great price within it ; and he bade them go and watch for it at such a place far down the stream , and when the chest came slowly along , bobbing and turning in the tide , they were to seize it and secretly and swiftly bring it to him , for he was now determined to put the princess to death himself .
The pupils set off at once , wondering at the strangeness of their errand , and still more at the holiness of the jogi to whom such secrets were revealed .
It happened that , as the next morning was dawning , the gallant young prince of Dilaram was hunting by the banks of the river , with a great following of wazirs , attendants , and huntsmen , and as he rode he saw floating on the river a large chest , which came slowly along , bobbing and turning in the tide .
Raising himself in his saddle , he gave an order , and half a dozen men plunged into the water and drew the chest out on to the river bank , where every one crowded around to see what it could contain .
The prince was certainly not the least curious among them ; but he was a cautious young man , and , as he prepared to open the chest himself , he bade all but a few stand back , and these few to draw their swords , so as to be prepared in case the chest should hold some evil beast , or djinn , or giant .
When all were ready and expectant , the prince with his dagger forced open the lid and flung it back , and there lay , living and breathing , the most lovely maiden he had ever seen in his life .
Although she was half stifled from her confinement in the chest , the princess speedily revived , and , when she was able to sit up , the prince began to question her as to who she was and how she came to be shut up in the chest and set afloat upon the water ; and she , blushing and trembling to find herself in the presence of so many strangers , told him that she was the princess of Rahmatabad , and that she had been put into the chest by her own father .
When he on his part told her that he was the prince of Dilaram , the astonishment of the young people was unbounded to find that they , who had been betrothed without ever having seen one another , should have actually met for the first time in such strange circumstances .
In fact , the prince was so moved by her beauty and modest ways that he called up his wazirs and demanded to be married at once to this lovely lady who had so completely won his heart .
And married they were then and there upon the river bank , and went home to the prince 's palace , where , when the story was told , they were welcomed by the old rajah , the prince 's father , and the remainder of the day was given over to feasting and rejoicing .
But when the banquet was over , the bride told her husband that now , on the threshold of their married life , she had more to relate of her adventures than he had given her the opportunity to tell as yet ; and then , without hiding anything , she informed him of all that happened to her from the time she had stolen out to visit the wicked jogi .
In the morning the prince called his chief wazir and ordered him to shut up in the chest in which the princess had been found a great monkey that lived chained up in the palace , and to take the chest back to the river and set it afloat once more and watch what became of it .
So the monkey was caught and put into the chest , and some of the prince 's servants took it down to the river and pushed it off into the water .
Then they followed secretly a long way off to see what became of it .
Meanwhile the jogi 's two pupils watched and watched for the chest until they were nearly tired of watching , and were beginning to wonder whether the jogi was right after all , when on the second day they spied the great chest coming floating on the river , slowly bobbing and turning in the tide ; and instantly a great joy and exultation seized them , for they thought that here indeed was further proof of the wonderful wisdom of their master .
With some difficulty they secured the chest , and carried it back as swiftly and secretly as possible to the jogi 's house .
As soon as they brought in the chest , the jogi , who had been getting very cross and impatient , told them to put it down , and to go outside whilst he opened the magic chest .
` And even if you hear cries and sounds , however alarming , you must on no account enter , ' said the jogi , walking over to a closet where lay the silken cord that was to strangle the princess .
And the two pupils did as they were told , and went outside and shut close all the doors .
Presently they heard a great outcry within and the jogi 's voice crying aloud for help ; but they dared not enter , for had they not been told that whatever the noise , they must not come in ?
So they sat outside , waiting and wondering ; and at last all grew still and quiet , and remained so for such a long time that they determined to enter and see if all was well .
No sooner had they opened the door leading into the courtyard than they were nearly upset by a huge monkey that came leaping straight to the doorway and escaped past them into the open fields .
Then they stepped into the room , and there they saw the jogi 's body lying torn to pieces on the threshold of his dwelling !
Very soon the story spread , as stories will , and reached the ears of the princess and her husband , and when she knew that her enemy was dead she made her peace with her father .
From Major Campbell , Feroshepore .
The Heart of a Monkey A long time ago a little town made up of a collection of low huts stood in a tiny green valley at the foot of a cliff .
Of course the people had taken great care to build their houses out of reach of the highest tide which might be driven on shore by a west wind , but on the very edge of the town there had sprung up a tree so large that half its boughs hung over the huts and the other half over the deep sea right under the cliff , where sharks loved to come and splash in the clear water .
The branches of the tree itself were laden with fruit , and every day at sunrise a big grey monkey might have been seen sitting in the topmost branches having his breakfast , and chattering to himself with delight .
After he had eaten all the fruit on the town side of the tree the monkey swung himself along the branches to the part which hung over the water .
While he was looking out for a nice shady place where he might perch comfortably he noticed a shark watching him from below with greedy eyes .
` Can I do anything for you , my friend ? '
asked the monkey politely .
` Oh !
if you only would thrown me down some of those delicious things , I should be so grateful , ' answered the shark .
` After you have lived on fish for fifty years you begin to feel you would like a change .
And I am so very , very tired of the taste of salt . '
` Well , I do n't like salt myself , ' said the monkey ; ` so if you will open your mouth I will throw this beautiful juicy kuyu into it , ' and , as he spoke , he pulled one off the branch just over his head .
But it was not so easy to hit the shark 's mouth as he supposed , even when the creature had turned on his back , and the first kuyu only struck one of his teeth and rolled into the water .
However , the second time the monkey had better luck , and the fruit fell right in .
` Ah , how good ! '
cried the shark .
` Send me another , please . '
And the monkey grew tired of picking the kuyu long before the shark was tired of eating them .
` It is getting late , and I must be going home to my children , ' he said , at length , ` but if you are here at the same time to-morrow I will give you another treat . '
` Thank you , thank you , ' said the shark , showing all his great ugly teeth as he grinned with delight ; ` you ca n't guess how happy you have made me , ' and he swam away into the shadow , hoping to sleep away the time till the monkey came again .
For weeks the monkey and the shark breakfasted together , and it was a wonder that the tree had any fruit left for them .
They became fast friends , and told each other about their homes and their children , and how to teach them all they ought to know .
By and bye the monkey became rather discontented with his green house in a grove of palms beyond the town , and longed to see the strange things under the sea which he had heard of from the shark .
The shark perceived this very clearly , and described greater marvels , and the monkey as he listened grew more and more gloomy .
Matters were in this state when one day the shark said : ' I really hardly know how to thank you for all your kindness to me during these weeks .
Here I have nothing of my own to offer you , but if you would only consent to come home with me , how gladly would I give you anything that might happen to take your fancy . ' '
I should like nothing better , ' cried the monkey , his teeth chattering , as they always did when he was pleased .
` But how could I get there ?
Not by water .
Ugh !
It makes me ill to think of it ! '
` Oh !
do n't let that trouble you , ' replied the shark , ` you have only to sit on my back and I will undertake that not a drop of water shall touch you . '
So it was arranged , and directly after breakfast next morning the shark swam close up under the tree and the monkey dropped neatly on his back , without even a splash .
After a few minutes -- for at first he felt a little frightened at his strange position -- the monkey began to enjoy himself vastly , and asked the shark a thousand questions about the fish and the sea-weeds and the oddly-shaped things that floated past them , and as the shark always gave him some sort of answer , the monkey never guessed that many of the objects they saw were as new to his guide as to himself .
The sun had risen and set six times when the shark suddenly said , ` My friend , we have now performed half our journey , and it is time that I should tell you something . '
` What is it ? '
asked the monkey .
` Nothing unpleasant , I hope , for you sound rather grave ? '
` Oh , no !
Nothing at all .
It is only that shortly before we left I heard that the sultan of my country is very ill , and that the only thing to cure him is a monkey 's heart . '
` Poor man , I am very sorry for him , ' replied the monkey ; ` but you were unwise not to tell me till we had started . '
` What do you mean ? '
asked the shark ; but the monkey , who now understood the whole plot , did not answer at once , for he was considering what he should say .
` Why are you so silent ? '
inquired the shark again . '
I was thinking what a pity it was you did not tell me while I was still on land , and then I would have brought my heart with me . '
` Your heart !
Why is n't your heart here ? '
said the shark , with a puzzled expression .
` Oh , no !
Of course not .
Is it possible you do n't know that when we leave home we always hang up our hearts on trees , to prevent their being troublesome ?
However , perhaps you wo n't believe that , and will just think I have invented it because I am afraid , so let us go on to your country as fast as we can , and when we arrive you can look for my heart , and if you find it you can kill me . '
The monkey spoke in such a calm , indifferent way that the shark was quite deceived , and began to wish he had not been in such a hurry .
` But there is no use going on if your heart is not with you , ' he said at last .
` We had better turn back to the town , and then you can fetch it . '
Of course , this was just what the monkey wanted , but he was careful not to seem too pleased .
` Well , I do n't know , ' he remarked carelessly , ` it is such a long way ; but you may be right . ' '
I am sure I am , ' answered the shark , ` and I will swim as quickly as I can , ' and so he did , and in three days they caught sight of the kuyu tree hanging over the water .
With a sigh of relief the monkey caught hold of the nearest branch and swung himself up .
` Wait for me here , ' he called out to the shark . '
I am so hungry I must have a little breakfast , and then I will go and look for my heart , ' and he went further and further into the branches so that the shark could not see him .
Then he curled himself up and went to sleep .
` Are you there ? '
cried the shark , who was soon tired of swimming about under the cliff , and was in haste to be gone .
The monkey awoke with a start , but did not answer .
` Are you there ? '
called the shark again , louder than before , and in a very cross voice .
` Oh , yes .
I am here , ' replied the monkey ; ` but I wish you had not wakened me up .
I was having such a nice nap . '
` Have you got it ? '
asked the shark .
` It is time we were going . '
` Going where ? '
inquired the monkey .
` Why , to my country , of course , with your heart .
You CA N'T have forgotten ! '
` My dear friend , ' answered the monkey , with a chuckle , ' I think you must be going a little mad .
Do you take me for a washerman 's donkey ? '
` Do n't talk nonsense , ' exclaimed the shark , who did not like being laughed at .
` What do you mean about a washerman 's donkey ?
And I wish you would be quick , or we may be too late to save the sultan . '
` Did you really never hear of the washerman 's donkey ? '
asked the monkey , who was enjoying himself immensely .
` Why , he is the beast who has no heart .
And as I am not feeling very well , and am afraid to start while the sun is so high lest I should get a sunstroke , if you like , I will come a little nearer and tell you his story . '
` Very well , ' said the shark sulkily , ` if you wo n't come , I suppose I may as well listen to that as do nothing . '
So the monkey began . '
A washerman once lived in the great forest on the other side of the town , and he had a donkey to keep him company and to carry him wherever he wanted to go .
For a time they got on very well , but by and bye the donkey grew lazy and ungrateful for her master 's kindness , and ran away several miles into the heart of the forest , where she did nothing but eat and eat and eat , till she grew so fat she could hardly move .
` One day as she was tasting quite a new kind of grass and wondering if it was as good as what she had had for dinner the day before , a hare happened to pass by . '
`` Well , that is a fat creature , '' thought she , and turned out of her path to tell the news to a lion who was a friend of hers .
Now the lion had been very ill , and was not strong enough to go hunting for himself , and when the hare came and told him that a very fat donkey was to be found only a few hundred yards off , tears of disappointment and weakness filled his eyes . '
`` What is the good of telling me that ? ''
he asked , in a weepy voice ; `` you know I can not even walk as far as that palm . '' '
`` Never mind , '' answered the hare briskly .
`` If you ca n't go to your dinner your dinner shall come to you , '' and nodding a farewell to the lion she went back to the donkey . '
`` Good morning , '' said she , bowing politely to the donkey , who lifted her head in surprise .
`` Excuse my interrupting you , but I have come on very important business . '' '
`` Indeed , '' answered the donkey , `` it is most kind of you to take the trouble .
May I inquire what the business is ? '' '
`` Certainly , '' replied the hare .
`` It is my friend the lion who has heard so much of your charms and good qualities that he has sent me to beg that you will give him your paw in marriage .
He regrets deeply that he is unable to make the request in person , but he has been ill and is too weak to move . '' '
`` Poor fellow !
How sad ! ''
said the donkey .
`` But you must tell him that I feel honoured by his proposal , and will gladly consent to be Queen of the Beasts . '' '
`` Will you not come and tell him so yourself ? ''
asked the hare .
` Side by side they went down the road which led to the lion 's house .
It took a long while , for the donkey was so fat with eating she could only walk very slowly , and the hare , who could have run the distance in about five minutes , was obliged to creep along till she almost dropped with fatigue at not being able to go at her own pace .
When at last they arrived the lion was sitting up at the entrance , looking very pale and thin .
The donkey suddenly grew shy and hung her head , but the lion put on his best manners and invited both his visitors to come in and make themselves comfortable .
` Very soon the hare got up and said , `` Well , as I have another engagement I will leave you to make acquaintance with your future husband , '' and winking at the lion she bounded away .
` The donkey expected that as soon as they were left alone the lion would begin to speak of their marriage , and where they should live , but as he said nothing she looked up .
To her surprise and terror she saw him crouching in the corner , his eyes glaring with a red light , and with a loud roar he sprang towards her .
But in that moment the donkey had had time to prepare herself , and jumping on one side dealt the lion such a hard kick that he shrieked with the pain .
Again and again he struck at her with his claws , but the donkey could bite too , as well as the lion , who was very weak after his illness , and at last a well-planted kick knocked him right over , and he rolled on the floor , groaning with pain .
The donkey did not wait for him to get up , but ran away as fast as she could and was lost in the forest .
` Now the hare , who knew quite well what would happen , had not gone to do her business , but hid herself in some bushes behind the cave , where she could hear quite clearly the sounds of the battle .
When all was quiet again she crept gently out , and stole round the corner . '
`` Well , lion , have you killed her ? ''
asked she , running swiftly up the path . '
`` Killed her , indeed ! ''
answered the lion sulkily , `` it is she who has nearly killed me .
I never knew a donkey could kick like that , though I took care she should carry away the marks of my claws . '' '
`` Dear me !
Fancy such a great fat creature being able to fight ! ''
cried the hare .
`` But do n't vex yourself .
Just lie still , and your wounds will soon heal , '' and she bade her friend , good bye , and returned to her family .
` Two or three weeks passed , and only bare places on the donkey 's back showed where the lion 's claws had been , while , on his side , the lion had recovered from his illness and was now as strong as ever .
He was beginning to think that it was almost time for him to begin hunting again , when one morning a rustle was heard in the creepers outside , and the hare 's head peeped through . '
`` Ah !
there is no need to ask how you are , '' she said .
`` Still you must n't overtire yourself , you know .
Shall I go and bring you your dinner ? '' '
`` If you will bring me that donkey I will tear it in two , '' cried the lion savagely , and the hare laughed and nodded and went on her errand .
` This time the donkey was much further than before , and it took longer to find her .
At last the hare caught sight of four hoofs in the air , and ran towards them .
The donkey was lying on a soft cool bed of moss near a stream , rolling herself backwards and forwards from pleasure . '
`` Good morning , '' said the hare politely , and the donkey got slowly on to her legs , and looked to see who her visitor could be . '
`` Oh , it is you , is it ? ''
she exclaimed .
`` Come and have a chat .
What news have you got ? '' '
`` I must n't stay , '' answered the hare ; `` but I promised the lion to beg you to pay him a visit , as he is not well enough to call on you . '' '
`` Well , I do n't know , '' replied the donkey gloomily , `` the last time we went he scratched me very badly , and really I was quite afraid . '' '
`` He was only trying to kiss you , '' said the hare , `` and you bit him , and of course that made him cross . '' '
`` If I were sure of that , '' hesitated the donkey . '
`` Oh , you may be quite sure , '' laughed the hare .
`` I have a large acquaintance among lions .
But let us be quick , '' and rather unwillingly the donkey set out .
` The lion saw them coming and hid himself behind a large tree .
As the donkey went past , followed by the hare , he sprang out , and with one blow of his paw stretched the poor foolish creature dead before him . '
`` Take this meat and skin it and roast it , '' he said to the hare ; `` but my appetite is not so good as it was , and the only part I want for myself is the heart .
The rest you can either eat yourself or give away to your friends . '' '
`` Thank you , '' replied the hare , balancing the donkey on her back as well as she was able , and though the legs trailed along the ground she managed to drag it to an open space some distance off , where she made a fire and roasted it .
As soon as it was cooked the hare took out the heart and had just finished eating it when the lion , who was tired of waiting , came up . '
`` I am hungry , '' said he .
`` Bring me the creature 's heart ; it is just what I want for supper . '' '
`` But there is no heart , '' answered the hare , looking up at the lion with a puzzled face . '
`` What nonsense ! ''
said the lion .
`` As if every beast had not got a heart .
What do you mean ? '' '
`` This is a washerman 's donkey , '' replied the hare gravely . '
`` Well , and suppose it is ? '' '
`` Oh , fie ! ''
exclaimed the hare .
`` You , a lion and a grown-up person , and ask questions like that .
If the donkey had had a heart would she be here now ?
The first time she came she knew you were trying to kill her , and ran away .
Yet she came back a second time .
Well , if she had had a heart would she have come back a second time ?
Now would she ? ''
` And the lion answered slowly , `` No , she would not . ''
` So you think I am a washerman 's donkey ? '
said the monkey to the shark , when the story was ended .
` You are wrong ; I am not .
And as the sun is getting low in the sky , it is time for you to begin your homeward journey .
You will have a nice cool voyage , and I hope you will find the sultan better .
Farewell ! '
And the monkey disappeared among the green branches , and was gone .
From ` Swahili Tales , ' by Edward Steere , LL.D .
The Fairy Nurse There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow .
They had three children , and my story happened while the youngest was a baby .
The wife was a good wife enough , but her mind was all on her family and her farm , and she hardly ever went to her knees without falling asleep , and she thought the time spent in the chapel was twice as long as it need be .
So , friends , she let her man and her two children go before her one day to Mass , while she called to consult a fairy man about a disorder one of her cows had .
She was late at the chapel , and was sorry all the day after , for her husband was in grief about it , and she was very fond of him .
Late that night he was wakened up by the cries of his children calling out ` Mother !
Mother ! '
When he sat up and rubbed his eyes , there was no wife by his side , and when he asked the little ones what was become of their mother , they said they saw the room full of nice little men and women , dressed in white and red and green , and their mother in the middle of them , going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep .
Out he ran , and searched everywhere round the house but , neither tale nor tidings did he get of her for many a day .
Well , the poor man was miserable enough , for he was as fond of his woman as she was of him .
It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to see his poor children neglected and dirty , as they often were , and they 'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that used to look in whenever she could spare time .
The infant was away with a nurse .
About six weeks after -- just as he was going out to his work one morning -- a neighbour , that used to mind women when they were ill , came up to him , and kept step by step with him to the field , and this is what she told him .
` Just as I was falling asleep last night , I heard a horse 's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door , and there , when I came out , was a fine-looking dark man , mounted on a black horse , and he told me to get ready in all haste , for a lady was in great want of me .
As soon as I put on my cloak and things , he took me by the hand , and I was sitting behind him before I felt myself stirring .
`` Where are we going , sir ? ''
says I. `` You 'll soon know , '' says he ; and he drew his fingers across my eyes , and not a ray could I see .
I kept a tight grip of him , and I little knew whether he was going backwards or forwards , or how long we were about it , till my hand was taken again , and I felt the ground under me .
The fingers went the other way across my eyes , and there we were before a castle door , and in we went through a big hall and great rooms all painted in fine green colours , with red and gold bands and ornaments , and the finest carpets and chairs and tables and window curtains , and grand ladies and gentlemen walking about .
At last we came to a bedroom , with a beautiful lady in bed , with a fine bouncing boy beside her .
The lady clapped her hands , and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby , and praised me , and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over .
` Well , the child I rubbed , sure enough ; but my right eye began to smart , and I put up my finger and gave it a rub , and then stared , for never in all my life was I so frightened .
The beautiful room was a big , rough cave , with water oozing over the edges of the stones and through the clay ; and the lady , and the lord , and the child weazened , poverty-bitten creatures -- nothing but skin and bone -- and the rich dresses were old rags .
I did n't let on that I found any difference , and after a bit says the Dark Man , `` Go before me to the hall door , and I will be with you in a few moments , and see you safe home . ''
Well , just as I turned into the outside cave , who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly .
She looked round all terrified , and says she to me in a whisper , `` I 'm brought here to nurse the child of the king and queen of the fairies ; but there is one chance of saving me .
All the court will pass the cross near Templeshambo next Friday night , on a visit to the fairies of Old Ross .
If John can catch me by the hand or cloak when I ride by , and has courage not to let go his grip , I 'll be safe .
Here 's the king .
Do n't open your mouth to answer .
I saw what happened with the ointment . ''
` The Dark Man did n't once cast his eye towards Molly , and he seemed to have no suspicion of me .
When we came out I looked about me , and where do you think we were but in the dyke of the Rath of Cromogue .
I was on the horse again , which was nothing but a big rag-weed , and I was in dread every minute I 'd fall off ; but nothing happened till I found myself in my own cabin .
The king slipped five guineas into my hand as soon as I was on the ground , and thanked me , and bade me good night .
I hope I 'll never see his face again .
I got into bed , and could n't sleep for a long time ; and when I examined my five guineas this morning , that I left in the table drawer the last thing , I found five withered leaves of oak -- bad luck to the giver ! '
Well , you may all think the fright , and the joy , and the grief the poor man was in when the woman finished her story .
They talked and they talked , but we need n't mind what they said till Friday night came , when both were standing where the mountain road crosses the one going to Ross .
There they stood , looking towards the bridge of Thuar , in the dead of the night , with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid .
At last she gave a start , and `` By this and by that , '' says she , `` here they come , bridles jingling and feathers tossing ! ''
He looked , but could see nothing ; and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open , looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola .
`` I see your wife , '' says she , `` riding on the outside just so as to rub against us .
We 'll walk on quietly , as if we suspected nothing , and when we are passing I 'll give you a shove .
If you do n't do YOUR duty then , woe be with you ! ''
Well , they walked on easy , and the poor hearts beating in both their breasts ; and though he could see nothing , he heard a faint jingle and trampling and rustling , and at last he got the push that she promised .
He spread out his arms , and there was his wife 's waist within them , and he could see her plain ; but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was an earthquake , and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things , roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away .
But he made the sign of the cross and bid them begone in God 's name , and held his wife as if it was iron his arms were made of .
Bedad , in one moment everything was as silent as the grave , and the poor woman lying in a faint in the arms of her husband and her good neighbour .
Well , all in good time she was minding her family and her business again ; and I 'll go bail , after the fright she got , she spent more time on her knees , and avoided fairy men all the days of the week , and particularly on Sunday .
It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without getting a mark from them .
My brave nurse did n't escape no more than another .
She was one Thursday at the market of Enniscorthy , when what did she see walking among the tubs of butter but the Dark Man , very hungry-looking , and taking a scoop out of one tub and out of another .
` Oh , sir , ' says she , very foolish , ' I hope your lady is well , and the baby . '
` Pretty well , thank you , ' says he , rather frightened like .
` How do I look in this new suit ? '
says he , getting to one side of her . '
I ca n't see you plain at all , sir , ' says she .
` Well , now ? '
says he , getting round her back to the other side .
` Musha , indeed , sir , your coat looks no better than a withered dock-leaf . '
` Maybe , then , ' says he , ` it will be different now , ' and he struck the eye next him with a switch .
Friends , she never saw a glimmer after with that one till the day of her death .
` Legendary Fictions of the Irish Celts , ' by Patrick Kennedy .
A Lost Paradise In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife .
They were both young and handsome and strong , and when they got married , they thought work would never fail them .
But bad times came , and they grew poorer and poorer , and the nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent .
Now one evening the king of that country was hunting near the charcoal-burner 's hut .
As he passed the door , he heard a sound of sobbing , and being a good-natured man he stopped to listen , thinking that perhaps he might be able to give some help .
` Were there ever two people so unhappy ! '
said a woman 's voice .
` Here we are , ready to work like slaves the whole day long , and no work can we get .
And it is all because of the curiosity of old mother Eve !
If she had only been like me , who never want to know anything , we should all have been as happy as kings to-day , with plenty to eat , and warm clothes to wear .
Why -- ' but at this point a loud knock interrupted her lamentations .
` Who is there ? '
asked she .
` I ! '
replied somebody .
` And who is `` I '' ? '
` The king .
Let me in . '
Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from the door .
As the king entered , he noticed that there was no furniture in the room at all , not even a chair , so he pretended to be in too great a hurry to see anything around him , and only said ` You must not let me disturb you .
I have no time to stay , but you seemed to be in trouble .
Tell me ; are you very unhappy ? '
` Oh , my lord , we can find no work and have eaten nothing for two days ! '
answered she .
` Nothing remains for us but to die of hunger . '
` No , no , you sha n't do that , ' cried the king , ` or if you do , it will be your own fault .
You shall come with me into my palace , and you will feel as if you were in Paradise , I promise you .
In return , I only ask one thing of you , that you shall obey my orders exactly . '
The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment , as if they could hardly believe their ears ; and , indeed , it was not to be wondered at !
Then they found their tongues , and exclaimed together : ` Oh , yes , yes , my lord !
we will do everything you tell us .
How could we be so ungrateful as to disobey you , when you are so kind ? '
The king smiled , and his eyes twinkled .
` Well , let us start at once , ' said he .
` Lock your door , and put the key in your pocket . '
The woman looked as if she thought this was needless , seeing it was quite , quite certain they would never come back .
But she dared not say so , and did as the king told her .
After walking through the forest for a couple of miles , they all three reached the palace , and by the king 's orders servants led the charcoal-burner and his wife into rooms filled with beautiful things such as they had never even dreamed of .
First they bathed in green marble baths where the water looked like the sea , and then they put on silken clothes that felt soft and pleasant .
When they were ready , one of the king 's special servants entered , and took them into a small hall , where dinner was laid , and this pleased them better than anything else .
They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in . '
I hope you have been attended to properly , ' said he , ` and that you will enjoy your dinner .
My steward will take care you have all you want , and I wish you to do exactly as you please .
Oh , by the bye , there is one thing !
You notice that soup-tureen in the middle of the table ?
Well , be careful on no account to lift the lid .
If once you take off the cover , there is an end of your good fortune . '
Then , bowing to his guests , he left the room .
` Did you hear what he said ? '
inquired the charcoal-burner in an awe-stricken voice .
` We are to have what we want , and do what we please .
Only we must not touch the soup-tureen . '
` No , of course we wo n't , ' answered the wife .
` Why should we wish to ?
But all the same it is rather odd , and one ca n't help wondering what is inside . '
For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife .
Their beds were so comfortable , they could hardly make up their minds to get up , their clothes were so lovely they could scarcely bring themselves to take them off ; their dinners were so good that they found it very difficult to leave off eating .
Then outside the palace were gardens filled with rare flowers and fruits and singing birds , or if they desired to go further , a golden coach , painted with wreaths of forget-me-nots and lined with blue satin , awaited their orders .
Sometimes it happened that the king came to see them , and he smiled as he glanced at the man , who was getting rosier and plumper each day .
But when his eyes rested on the woman , they took on a look which seemed to say ' I knew it , ' though this neither the charcoal-burner nor his wife ever noticed .
` Why are you so silent ? '
asked the man one morning when dinner had passed before his wife had uttered one word . '
A little while ago you used to be chattering all the day long , and now I have almost forgotten the sound of your voice . '
` Oh , nothing ; I did not feel inclined to talk , that was all ! '
She stopped , and added carelessly after a pause , ` Do n't you ever wonder what is in that soup-tureen ? '
` No , never , ' replied the man .
` It is no affair of ours , ' and the conversation dropped once more , but as time went on , the woman spoke less and less , and seemed so wretched that her husband grew quite frightened about her .
As to her food , she refused one thing after another .
` My dear wife , ' said the man at last , ` you really must eat something .
What in the world is the matter with you ?
If you go on like this you will die . ' '
I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen , ' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled .
` Is that it ? '
cried he ; ` are you making yourself miserable because of that ?
Why , you know we should be turned out of the palace , and sent away to starve . '
` Oh no , we should n't .
The king is too good-natured .
Of course he did n't mean a little thing like this !
Besides , there is no need to lift the lid off altogether .
Just raise one corner so that I may peep .
We are quite alone : nobody will ever know . '
The man hesitated : it did seem a ` little thing , ' and if it was to make his wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk .
So he took hold of the handle of the cover and raised it very slowly and carefully , while the woman stooped down to peep .
Suddenly she startled back with a scream , for a small mouse had sprung from the inside of the tureen , and had nearly hit her in the eye .
Round and round the room it ran , round and round they both ran after it , knocking down chairs and vases in their efforts to catch the mouse and put it back in the tureen .
In the middle of all the noise the door opened , and the mouse ran out between the feet of the king .
In one instant both the man and his wife were hiding under the table , and to all appearance the room was empty .
` You may as well come out , ' said the king , ` and hear what I have to say . ' '
I know what it is , ' answered the charcoal-burner , hanging his head .
The mouse has escaped . ' '
A guard of soldiers will take you back to your hut , ' said the king .
` Your wife has the key . '
` Were n't they silly ? '
cried the grandchildren of the charcoal-burners when they heard the story .
` How we wish that we had had the chance !
WE should never have wanted to know what was in the soup-tureen ! '
From ` Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
How Brave Walter Hunted Wolves A little back from the high road there stands a house which is called ` Hemgard . '
Perhaps you remember the two beautiful mountain ash trees by the reddish-brown palings , and the high gate , and the garden with the beautiful barberry bushes which are always the first to become grown in spring , and which in summer are weighed down with their beautiful berries .
Behind the garden there is a hedge with tall aspens which rustle in the morning wind , behind the hedge is a road , behind the road is a wood , and behind the wood the wide world .
But on the other side of the garden there is a lake , and beyond the lake is a village , and all around stretch meadows and fields , now yellow , now green .
In the pretty house , which has white window-frames , a neat porch and clean steps , which are always strewn with finely-cut juniper leaves , Walter 's parents live .
His brother Frederick , his sister Lotta , old Lena , Jonah , Caro and Bravo , Putte and Murre , and Kuckeliku .
Caro lives in the dog house , Bravo in the stable , Putte with the stableman , Murre a little here and a little there , and Kuckeliku lives in the hen house , that is his kingdom .
Walter is six years old , and he must soon begin to go to school .
He can not read yet , but he can do many other things .
He can turn cartwheels , stand on his head , ride see-saw , throw snowballs , play ball , crow like a cock , eat bread and butter and drink sour milk , tear his trousers , wear holes in his elbows , break the crockery in pieces , throw balls through the windowpanes , draw old men on important papers , walk over the flower-beds , eat himself sick with gooseberries , and be well after a whipping .
For the rest he has a good heart but a bad memory , and forgets his father 's and his mother 's admonitions , and so often gets into trouble and meets with adventures , as you shall hear , but first of all I must tell you how brave he was and how he hunted wolves .
Once in the spring , a little before Midsummer , Walter heard that there were a great many wolves in the wood , and that pleased him .
He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister , then he used often to say ` One wolf is nothing , there ought to be at least four . '
When he wrestled with Klas Bogenstrom or Frithiof Waderfelt and struck them in the back , he would say ` That is what I shall do to a wolf ! '
and when he shot arrows at Jonas and they rattled against his sheepskin coat he would say : ` That is how I should shoot you if you were a wolf ! '
Indeed , some thought that the brave boy boasted a little ; but one must indeed believe him since he said so himself .
So Jonas and Lena used to say of him ` Look , there goes Walter , who shoots the wolves . '
And other boys and girls would say ` Look , there goes brave Walter , who is brave enough to fight with four . '
There was no one so fully convinced of this as Walter himself , and one day he prepared himself for a real wolf hunt .
He took with him his drum , which had holes in one end since the time he had climbed up on it to reach a cluster of rowan berries , and his tin sabre , which was a little broken , because he had with incredible courage fought his way through a whole unfriendly army of gooseberry bushes .
He did not forget to arm himself quite to the teeth with his pop-gun , his bow , and his air-pistol .
He had a burnt cork in his pocket to blacken his moustache , and a red cock 's feather to put in his cap to make himself look fierce .
He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle , to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them , for he thought it would be cruel to do that while they were still living .
It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill , for Walter got a seat on the load , while Caro ran barking beside them .
As soon as they came to the wood Walter looked cautiously around him to see perchance there was a wolf in the bushes , and he did not omit to ask Jonas if wolves were afraid of a drum .
` Of course they are ' -LRB- that is understood -RRB- said Jonas .
Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood .
When they came to the mill Walter immediately asked if there had been any wolves in the neighbourhood lately .
` Alas !
yes , ' said the miller , ` last night the wolves have eaten our fattest ram there by the kiln not far from here . '
` Ah ! '
said Walter , ` do you think that there were many ? '
` We do n't know , ' answered the miller .
` Oh , it is all the same , ' said Walter . '
I only asked so that I should know if I should take Jonas with me . '
I could manage very well alone with three , but if there were more , I might not have time to kill them all before they ran away . '
` In Walter 's place I should go quite alone , it is more manly , ' said Jonas .
` No , it is better for you to come too , ' said Walter .
` Perhaps there are many . '
` No , I have not time , ' said Jonas , ` and besides , there are sure not to be more than three .
Walter can manage them very well alone . '
` Yes , ' said Walter , ` certainly I could ; but , you see , Jonas , it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back , and I should have more trouble in killing them .
If I only knew that there were not more than two I should not mind , for them I should take one in each hand and give them a good shaking , like Susanna once shook me . ' '
I certainly think that there will not be more than two , ' said Jonas , ` there are never more than two when they slay children and rams ; Walter can very well shake them without me . '
` But , you see , Jonas , ' said Walter , ` if there are two , it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg , for you see I am not so strong in the left hand as in the right .
You can very well come with me , and take a good stick in case there are really two .
Look , if there is only one , I shall take him so with both my hands and thrown him living on to his back , and he can kick as much as he likes , I shall hold him fast . '
` Now , when I really think over the thing , ' said Jonas , ' I am almost sure there will not be more than one .
What would two do with one ram ?
There will certainly not be more than one . '
` But you should come with me all the same , Jonas , ' said Walter .
` You see I can very well manage one , but I am not quite accustomed to wolves yet , and he might tear holes in my new trousers . '
` Well , just listen , ' said Jonas , ' I am beginning to think that Walter is not so brave as people say .
First of all Walter would fight against four , and then against three , then two , and then one , and now Walter wants help with one .
Such a thing must never be ; what would people say ?
Perhaps they would think that Walter is a coward ? '
` That 's a lie , ' said Walter , ' I am not at all frightened , but it is more amusing when there are two .
I only want someone who will see how I strike the wolf and how the dust flies out of his skin . '
` Well , then , Walter can take the miller 's little Lisa with him .
She can sit on a stone and look on , ' said Jonas .
` No , she would certainly be frightened , ' said Walter , ` and how would it do for a girl to go wolf-hunting ?
Come with me , Jonas , and you shall have the skin , and I will be content with the ears and the tail . '
` No , thank you , ' said Jonas , ` Walter can keep the skin for himself .
Now I see quite well that he is frightened .
Fie , shame on him ! '
This touched Walter 's pride very near . '
I shall show that I am not frightened , ' he said ; and so he took his drum , sabre , cock 's feather , clasp-knife , pop-gun and air-pistol , and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves .
It was a beautiful evening , and the birds were singing in all the branches .
Walter went very slowly and cautiously .
At every step he looked all round him to see if perchance there was anything lurking behind the stones .
He quite thought something moved away there in the ditch .
Perhaps it was a wolf .
` It is better for me to beat the drum a little before I go there , ' thought Walter .
Br-r-r , so he began to beat his drum .
Then something moved again .
Caw !
caw !
a crow flew up from the ditch .
Walter immediately regained courage .
` It was well I took my drum with me , ' he thought , and went straight on with courageous steps .
Very soon he came quite close to the kiln , where the wolves had killed the ram .
But the nearer he came the more dreadful he thought the kiln looked .
It was so gray and old .
Who knew how many wolves there might be hidden there ?
Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner .
Yes , it was not at all safe here , and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood .
It would be horrible to be eaten up here in the daylight , thought Walter to himself ; and the more he thought about it the uglier and grayer the old kiln looked , and the more horrible and dreadful it seemed to become the food of wolves .
` Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped ? '
thought Walter .
` Fie ! '
said his conscience , ` Do you not remember that a lie is one of the worst sins , both in the sight of God and man ?
If you tell a lie to-day and say you struck a wolf , to-morrow surely it will eat you up . '
` No , I will go to the kiln , ' thought Walter , and so he went .
But he did not go quite near .
He went only so near that he could see the ram 's blood which coloured the grass red , and some tufts of wool which the wolves had torn from the back of the poor animal .
It looked so dreadful . '
I wonder what the ram thought when they ate him up , ' thought Walter to himself ; and just then a cold shiver ran through him from his collar right down to his boots .
` It is better for me to beat the drum , ' he thought to himself again , and so he began to beat it .
But it sounded horrid , and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf .
The drumsticks stiffened in Walter 's hands , and he thought now they are coming ... !
Yes , sure enough , just then a shaggy , reddish-brown wolf 's head looked out from under the kiln !
What did Walter do now ?
Yes , the brave Walter who alone could manage four , threw his drum far away , took to his heels and ran , and ran as fast as he could back to the mill .
But , alas !
the wolf ran after him .
Walter looked back ; the wolf was quicker than he and only a few steps behind him .
Then Walter ran faster .
But fear got the better of him , he neither heard nor saw anything more .
He ran over sticks , stones and ditches ; he lost drum-sticks , sabre , bow , and air-pistol , and in his terrible hurry he tripped over a tuft of grass .
There he lay , and the wolf jumped on to him ... It was a gruesome tale !
Now you may well believe that it was all over with Walter and all his adventures .
That would have been a pity .
But do not be surprised if it was not quite so bad as that , for the wolf was quite a friendly one .
He certainly jumped on to Walter , but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face ; and Walter shrieked .
Yes , he shrieked terribly !
Happily Jonas heard his cry of distress , for Walter was quite near the mill now , and he ran and helped him up .
` What has happened ? '
he asked .
` Why did Walter scream so terribly ? ' '
A wolf !
A wolf ! '
cried Walter , and that was all he could say .
` Where is the wolf ? '
said Jonas . '
I do n't see any wolf . '
` Take care , he is here , he has bitten me to death , ' groaned Walter .
Then Jonas began to laugh ; yes , he laughed so that he nearly burst his skin belt .
Well , well , was that the wolf ?
Was that the wolf which Walter was to take by the neck and shake and throw down on its back , no matter how much it struggled ?
Just look a little closer at him : he is your old friend , your own good old Caro .
I quite expect he found a leg of the ram in the kiln .
When Walter beat his drum , Caro crept out , and when Walter ran away , Caro ran after him , as he so often does when Walter wants to romp and play .
` Down , Caro !
you ought to be rather ashamed to have put such a great hero to flight ! '
Walter got up feeling very foolish .
` Down , Caro ! '
he said , both relieved and annoyed .
` It was only a dog , then if it had been a wolf I certainly should have killed him ... ' ` If Walter would listen to my advice , and boast a little less , and do a little more , ' said Jonas , consolingly .
` Walter is not a coward , is he ? '
` I !
You shall see , Jonas , when we next meet a bear .
You see I like so much better to fight with bears . '
` Indeed ! '
laughed Jonas .
` Are you at it again ?
` Dear Walter , remember that it is only cowards who boast ; a really brave man never talks of his bravery . '
From Z. Topelius .
The King of the Waterfalls When the young king of Easaidh Ruadh came into his kingdom , the first thing he thought of was how he could amuse himself best .
The sports that all his life had pleased him best suddenly seemed to have grown dull , and he wanted to do something he had never done before .
At last his face brightened . '
I know ! '
he said . '
I will go and play a game with the Gruagach . '
Now the Gruagach was a kind of wicked fairy , with long curly brown hair , and his house was not very far from the king 's house .
But though the king was young and eager , he was also prudent , and his father had told him on his deathbed to be very careful in his dealings with the ` good people , ' as the fairies were called .
Therefore before going to the Gruagach the king sought out a wise man of the countryside . '
I am wanting to play a game with the curly-haired Gruagach , ' said he .
` Are you , indeed ? '
replied the wizard .
` If you will take my counsel , you will play with someone else . '
` No ; I will play with the Gruagach , ' persisted the king .
` Well , if you must , you must , I suppose , ' answered the wizard ; ` but if you win that game , ask as a prize the ugly crop-headed girl that stands behind the door . ' '
I will , ' said the king .
So before the sun rose he got up and went to the house of the Gruagach , who was sitting outside . '
O king , what has brought you here to-day ? '
asked the Gruagach .
` But right welcome you are , and more welcome will you be still if you will play a game with me . '
` That is just what I want , ' said the king , and they played ; and sometimes it seemed as if one would win , and sometimes the other , but in the end it was the king who was the winner .
` And what is the prize that you will choose ? '
inquired the Gruagach .
` The ugly crop-headed girl that stands behind the door , ' replied the king .
` Why , there are twenty others in the house , and each fairer than she ! '
exclaimed the Gruagach .
` Fairer they may be , but it is she whom I wish for my wife , and none other , ' and the Gruagach saw that the king 's mind was set upon her , so he entered his house , and bade all the maidens in it come out one by one , and pass before the king .
One by one they came ; tall and short , dark and fair , plump and thin , and each said ' I am she whom you want .
You will be foolish indeed if you do not take me . '
But he took none of them , neither short nor tall , dark nor fair , plump nor thin , till at the last the crop-headed girl came out .
` This is mine , ' said the king , though she was so ugly that most men would have turned from her .
` We will be married at once , and I will carry you home . '
And married they were , and they set forth across a meadow to the king 's house .
As they went , the bride stooped and picked a sprig of shamrock , which grew amongst the grass , and when she stood upright again her ugliness had all gone , and the most beautiful woman that ever was seen stood by the king 's side .
The next day , before the sun rose , the king sprang from his bed , and told his wife he must have another game with the Gruagach .
` If my father loses that game , and you win it , ' said she , ` accept nothing for your prize but the shaggy young horse with the stick saddle . ' '
I will do that , ' answered the king , and he went .
` Does your bride please you ? '
asked the Gruagach , who was standing at his own door .
` Ah !
does she not ! '
answered the king quickly .
` Otherwise I should be hard indeed to please .
But will you play a game to-day ? ' '
I will , ' replied the Gruagach , and they played , and sometimes it seemed as if one would win , and sometimes the other , but in the end the king was the winner .
` What is the prize that you will choose ? '
asked the Gruagach .
` The shaggy young horse with the stick saddle , ' answered the king , but he noticed that the Gruagach held his peace , and his brow was dark as he led out the horse from the stable .
Rough was its mane and dull was its skin , but the king cared nothing for that , and throwing his leg over the stick saddle , rode away like the wind .
On the third morning the king got up as usual before dawn , and as soon as he had eaten food he prepared to go out , when his wife stopped him . '
I would rather , ' she said , ` that you did not go to play with the Gruagach , for though twice you have won yet some day he will win , and then he will put trouble upon you . '
` Oh !
I must have one more game , ' cried the king ; ` just this one . '
And he went off to the house of the Gruagach .
Joy filled the heart of the Gruagach when he saw him coming , and without waiting to talk they played their game .
Somehow or other , the king 's strength and skill had departed from him , and soon the Gruagach was the victor .
` Choose your prize , ' said the king , when the game was ended , ` but do not be too hard on me , or ask what I can not give . '
` The prize I choose , ' answered the Gruagach , ` is that the crop-headed creature should take thy head and thy neck , if thou dost not get for me the Sword of Light that hangs in the house of the king of the oak windows . ' '
I will get it , ' replied the young man bravely ; but as soon as he was out of sight of the Gruagach he pretended no more , and his face grew dark and his steps lagging .
` You have brought nothing with you to-night , ' said the queen , who was standing on the steps awaiting him .
She was so beautiful that the king was fain to smile when he looked at her , but then he remembered what had happened , and his heart grew heavy again .
` What is it ?
What is the matter ?
Tell me thy sorrow that I may bear it with thee , or , it may be , help thee ! '
Then the king told her everything that had befallen him , and she stroked his hair the while .
` That is nothing to grieve about , ' she said when the tale was finished .
` You have the best wife in Erin , and the best horse in Erin .
Only do as I bid you , and all will go well . '
And the king suffered himself to be comforted .
He was still sleeping when the queen rose and dressed herself , to make everything ready for her husband 's journey ; and the first place she went to was the stable , where she fed and watered the shaggy brown horse and put the saddle on it .
Most people thought this saddle was of wood , and did not see the little sparkles of gold and silver that were hidden in it .
She strapped it lightly on the horse 's back , and then led it down before the house , where the king waited .
` Good luck to you , and victories in all your battles , ' she said , as she kissed him before he mounted . '
I need not be telling you anything .
Take the advice of the horse , and see you obey it . '
So he waved his hand and set out on his journey , and the wind was not swifter than the brown horse -- no , not even the March wind which raced it and could not catch it .
But the horse never stopped nor looked behind , till in the dark of the night he reached the castle of the king of the oak windows .
` We are at the end of the journey , ' said the horse , ` and you will find the Sword of Light in the king 's own chamber .
If it comes to you without scrape or sound , the token is a good one .
At this hour the king is eating his supper , and the room is empty , so none will see you .
The sword has a knob at the end , and take heed that when you grasp it , you draw it softly out of its sheath .
Now go !
I will be under the window . '
Stealthily the young man crept along the passage , pausing now and then to make sure that no man was following him , and entered the king 's chamber .
A strange white line of light told him where the sword was , and crossing the room on tiptoe , he seized the knob , and drew it slowly out of the sheath .
The king could hardly breathe with excitement lest it should make some noise , and bring all the people in the castle running to see what was the matter .
But the sword slid swiftly and silently along the case till only the point was left touching it .
Then a low sound was heard , as of the edge of a knife touching a silver plate , and the king was so startled that he nearly dropped the knob .
` Quick !
quick ! '
cried the horse , and the king scrambled hastily through the small window , and leapt into the saddle .
` He has heard and he will follow , ' said the horse ; ` but we have a good start , ' And on they sped , on and on , leaving the winds behind them .
At length the horse slackened its pace .
` Look and see who is behind you , ' it said ; and the young man looked . '
I see a swarm of brown horses racing madly after us , ' he answered .
` We are swifter than those , ' said the horse , and flew on again .
` Look again , O king !
Is anyone coming now ? ' '
A swarm of black horses , and one has a white face , and on that horse a man is seated .
He is the king of the oak windows . '
` That is my brother , and swifter still than I , ' said the horse , ` and he will fly past me with a rush .
Then you must have your sword ready , and take off the head of the man who sits on him , as he turns and looks at you .
And there is no sword in the world that will cut off his head , save only that one . ' '
I will do it , ' replied the king ; and he listened with all his might , till he judged that the white-faced horse was close to him .
Then he sat up very straight and made ready .
The next moment there was a rushing noise as of a mighty tempest , and the young man caught a glimpse of a face turned towards him .
Almost blindly he struck , not knowing whether he had killed or only wounded the rider .
But the head rolled off , and was caught in the brown horse 's mouth .
` Jump on my brother , the black horse , and go home as fast as you can , and I will follow as quickly as I may , ' cried the brown horse ; and leaping forward the king alighted on the back of the black horse , but so near the tail that he almost fell off again .
But he stretched out his arm and clutched wildly at the mane and pulled himself into the saddle .
Before the sky was streaked with red he was at home again , and the queen was sitting waiting till he arrived , for sleep was far from her eyes .
Glad was she to see him enter , but she said little , only took her harp and sang softly the songs which he loved , till he went to bed , soothed and happy .
It was broad day when he woke , and he sprang up saying : ` Now I must go to the Gruagach , to find out if the spells he laid on me are loose . '
` Have a care , ' answered the queen , ` for it is not with a smile as on the other days that he will greet you .
Furiously he will meet you , and will ask you in his wrath if you have got the sword , and you will reply that you have got it .
Next he will want to know how you got it , and to this you must say that but for the knob you had not got it at all .
Then he will raise his head to look at the knob , and you must stab him in the mole which is on the right side of his neck ; but take heed , for if you miss the mole with the point of the sword , then my death and your death are certain .
He is brother to the king of the oak windows , and sure will he be that the king must be head , or the sword would not be in your hands . '
After that she kissed him , and bade him good speed .
` Didst thou get the sword ? '
asked the Gruagach , when they met in the usual place . '
I got the sword . '
` And how didst thou get it ? '
` If it had not had a knob on the top , then I had not got it , ' answered the king .
` Give me the sword to look at , ' said the Gruagach , peering forward ; but like a flash the king had drawn it from under his nose and pierced the mole , so that the Gruagach rolled over on the ground .
` Now I shall be at peace , ' thought the king .
But he was wrong , for when he reached home he found his servants tied together back to back with cloths bound round their mouths , so that they could not speak .
He hastened to set them free , and he asked who had treated them in so evil a manner .
` No sooner had you gone than a great giant came , and dealt with us as you see , and carried off your wife and your two horses , ' said the men .
` Then my eyes will not close nor will my head lay itself down till I fetch my wife and horses home again , ' answered he , and he stopped and noted the tracks of the horses on the grass , and followed after them till he arrived at the wood , when the darkness fell . '
I will sleep here , ' he said to himself , ` but first I will make a fire , ' And he gathered together some twigs that were lying about , and then took two dry sticks and rubbed them together till the fire came , and he sat by it .
The twigs cracked and the flame blazed up , and a slim yellow dog pushed through the bushes and laid his head on the king 's knee , and the king stroked his head .
` Wuf , wuf , ' said the dog .
` Sore was the plight of thy wife and thy horses when the giant drove them last night through the forest . '
` That is why I have come , ' answered the king ; and suddenly his heart seemed to fail him and he felt that he could not go on . '
I can not fight that giant , ' he cried , looking at the dog with a white face . '
I am afraid , let me turn homewards . '
` No , do n't do that , ' replied the dog .
` Eat and sleep , and I will watch over you . '
So the king ate and lay down , and slept till the sun waked him .
` It is time for you to start on your way , ' said the dog , ` and if danger presses , call on me , and I will help you . '
` Farewell , then , ' answered the king ; ' I will not forget that promise , ' and on he went , and on , and on , till he reached a tall cliff with many sticks lying about .
` It is almost night , ' he thought ; ' I will make a fire and rest , ' and thus he did , and when the flames blazed up , the hoary hawk of the grey rock flew on to a bough above him .
` Sore was the plight of thy wife and thy horses when they passed here with the giant , ' said the hawk .
` Never shall I find them , ' answered the king , ` and nothing shall I get for all my trouble . '
` Oh , take heart , ' replied the hawk ; ` things are never so bad but what they might be worse .
Eat and sleep and I will watch thee , ' and the king did as he was bidden by the hawk , and by the morning he felt brave again .
` Farewell , ' said the bird , ` and if danger presses call to me , and I will help you . '
On he walked , and on and on , till as dusk was falling he came to a great river , and on the bank there were sticks lying about . '
I will make myself a fire , ' he thought , and thus he did , and by and bye a smooth brown head peered at him from the water , and a long body followed it .
` Sore was the plight of thy wife and thy horses when they passed the river last night , ' said the otter . '
I have sought them and not found them , ' answered the king , ` and nought shall I get for my trouble . '
` Be not so downcast , ' replied the otter ; ` before noon to-morrow thou shalt behold thy wife .
But eat and sleep and I will watch over thee . '
So the king did as the otter bid him , and when the sun rose he woke and saw the otter lying on the bank .
` Farewell , ' cried the otter as he jumped into the water , ` and if danger presses , call to me and I will help you . '
For many hours the king walked , and at length he reached a high rock , which was rent into two by a great earthquake .
Throwing himself on the ground he looked over the side , and right at the very bottom he saw his wife and his horses .
His heart gave a great bound , and all his fears left him , but he was forced to be patient , for the sides of the rock were smooth , and not even a goat could find foothold .
So he got up again , and made his way round through the wood , pushing by trees , scrambling over rocks , wading through streams , till at last he was on flat ground again , close to the mouth of the cavern .
His wife gave a shriek of joy when he came in , and then burst into tears , for she was tired and very frightened .
But her husband did not understand why she wept , and he was tired and bruised from his climb , and a little cross too .
` You give me but a sorry welcome , ' grumbled he , ` when I have half-killed myself to get to you . '
` Do not heed him , ' said the horses to the weeping woman ; ` put him in front of us , where he will be safe , and give him food , for he is weary . '
And she did as the horses told her , and he ate and rested , till by and bye a long shadow fell over them , and their hearts beat with fear , for they knew that the giant was coming . '
I smell a stranger , ' cried the giant , as he entered ; but it was dark inside the chasm , and he did not see the king , who was crouching down between the feet of the horses . '
A stranger , my lord !
no stranger ever comes here , not even the sun ! '
and the king 's wife laughed gaily as she went up to the giant and stroked the huge hand which hung down by his side .
` Well , I perceive nothing , certainly , ' answered he , ` but it is very odd .
However , it is time that the horses were fed ; ' and he lifted down an armful of hay from a shelf of rock and held out a handful to each animal , who moved forward to meet him , leaving the king behind .
As soon as the giant 's hands were near their mouths they each made a snap , and began to bit them , so that his groans and shrieks might have been heard a mile off .
Then they wheeled round and kicked him till they could kick no more .
At length the giant crawled away , and lay quivering in a corner , and the queen went up to him .
` Poor thing !
poor thing ! '
she said , ` they seem to have gone mad ; it was awful to behold . '
` If I had had my soul in my body they would certainly have killed me , ' groaned the giant .
` It was lucky indeed , ' answered the queen ; ` but tell me , where is thy soul , that I may take care of it ? '
` Up there , in the Bonnach stone , ' answered the giant , pointing to a stone which was balanced loosely on an edge of rock .
` But now leave me , that I may sleep , for I have far to go to-morrow . '
Soon snores were heard from the corner where the giant lay , and then the queen lay down too , and the horses , and the king was hidden between them , so that none could see him .
Before the dawn the giant rose and went out , and immediately the queen ran up to the Bonnach stone , and tugged and pushed at it till it was quite steady on its ledge , and could not fall over .
And so it was in the evening when the giant came home ; and when they saw his shadow , the king crept down in front of the horses .
` Why , what have you done to the Bonnach stone ? '
asked the giant . '
I feared lest it should fall over , and be broken , with your soul in it , ' said the queen , ` so I put it further back on the ledge . '
` It is not there that my soul is , ' answered he , ` it is on the threshold .
But it is time the horses were fed ; ' and he fetched the hay , and gave it to them , and they bit and kicked him as before , till he lay half dead on the ground .
Next morning he rose and went out , and the queen ran to the threshold of the cave , and washed the stones , and pulled up some moss and little flowers that were hidden in the crannies , and by and bye when dusk had fallen the giant came home .
` You have been cleaning the threshold , ' said he .
` And was I not right to do it , seeing that your soul is in it ? '
asked the queen .
` It is not there that my soul is , ' answered the giant .
` Under the threshold is a stone , and under the stone is a sheep , and in the sheep 's body is a duck , and in the duck is an egg , and in the egg is my soul .
But it is late , and I must feed the horses ; ' and he brought them the hay , but they only bit and kicked him as before , and if his soul had been within him , they would have killed him outright .
It was still dark when the giant got up and went his way , and then the king and the queen ran forward to take up the threshold , while the horses looked on .
But sure enough !
just as the giant had said , underneath the threshold was the flagstone , and they pulled and tugged till the stone gave way .
Then something jumped out so suddenly , that it nearly knocked them down , and as it fled past , they saw it was a sheep .
` If the slim yellow dog of the greenwood were only here , he would soon have that sheep , ' cried the king ; and as he spoke , the slim yellow dog appeared from the forest , with the sheep in his mouth .
With a blow from the king , the sheep fell dead , and they opened its body , only to be blinded by a rush of wings as the duck flew past .
` If the hoary hawk of the rock were only here , he would soon have that duck , ' cried the king ; and as he spoke the hoary hawk was seen hovering above them , with the duck in his mouth .
They cut off the duck 's head with a swing of the king 's sword , and took the egg out of its body , but in his triumph the king held it carelessly , and it slipped from his hand , and rolled swiftly down the hill right into the river .
` If the brown otter of the stream were only here , he would soon have that egg , ' cried the king ; and the next minute there was the brown otter , dripping with water , holding the egg in his mouth .
But beside the brown otter , a huge shadow came stealing along -- the shadow of the giant .
The king stood staring at it , as if he were turned into stone , but the queen snatched the egg from the otter and crushed it between her two hands .
And after that the shadow suddenly shrank and was still , and they knew that the giant was dead , because they had found his soul .
Next day they mounted the two horses and rode home again , visiting their friends the brown otter and the hoary hawk and the slim yellow dog by the way .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
A French Puck Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of France there dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit , whose delight it was to play tricks on everybody , and particularly on the shepherds and the cowboys .
They never knew when they were safe from him , as he could change himself into a man , woman or child , a stick , a goat , a ploughshare .
Indeed , there was only one thing whose shape he could not take , and that was a needle .
At least , he could transform himself into a needle , but try as he might he never was able to imitate the hole , so every woman would have found him out at once , and this he knew .
Now the hour oftenest chosen by this naughty sprite -LRB- whom we will call Puck -RRB- for performing his pranks was about midnight , just when the shepherds and cowherds , tired out with their long day 's work , were sound asleep .
Then he would go into the cowsheds and unfasten the chains that fixed each beast in its own stall , and let them fall with a heavy clang to the ground .
The noise was so loud that it was certain to awaken the cowboys , however fatigued they might be , and they dragged themselves wearily to the stable to put back the chains .
But no sooner had they returned to their beds than the same thing happened again , and so on till the morning .
Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaiting together the manes and tails of two of the horses , so that it would take the grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning , while Puck , hidden among the hay in the loft , would peep out to watch them , enjoying himself amazingly all the time .
One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating loudly .
William thought it must have strayed from the flock , and that he had better take it home with him till he could discover its owner .
So he went up to where it was standing , and as it seemed so tired that it could hardly walk , he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on his way .
The sheep was pretty heavy , but the good man was merciful and staggered along as best he could under his load .
` It is not much further , ' he thought to himself as he reached an avenue of walnut trees , when suddenly a voice spoke out from over his head , and made him jump .
` Where are you ? '
said the voice , and the sheep answered : ` Here on the shoulders of a donkey . '
In another moment the sheep was standing on the ground and William was running towards home as fast as his legs would carry him .
But as he went , a laugh , which yet was something of a bleat , rang in his ears , and though he tried not to hear , the words reached him , ` Oh , dear !
What fun I have had , to be sure ! '
Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place , but visited one village after another , so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim .
After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds , and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport .
At length he was told of a young couple who were going to the nearest town to buy all that they needed for setting up house .
Quite certain that they would forget something which they could not do without , Puck waited patiently till they were jogging along in their cart on their return journey , and changed himself into a fly in order to overhear their conversation .
For a long time it was very dull -- all about their wedding day next month , and who were to be invited .
This led the bride to her wedding dress , and she gave a little scream .
` Just think !
Oh !
how could I be so stupid !
I have forgotten to buy the different coloured reels of cotton to match my clothes ! '
` Dear , dear ! '
exclaimed the young man .
` That is unlucky ; and did n't you tell me that the dressmaker was coming in to-morrow ? '
` Yes , I did , ' and then suddenly she gave another little scream , which had quite a different sound from the first .
` Look !
Look ! '
The bridegroom looked , and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colours -- of all the colours , that is , of the dresses that were tied on to the back of the cart .
` Well , that is a wonderful piece of good fortune , ' cried he , as he sprang out to get it .
` One would think a fairy had put it there on purpose . '
` Perhaps she has , ' laughed the girl , and as she spoke she seemed to hear an echo of her laughter coming from the horse , but of course that was nonsense .
The dressmaker was delighted with the thread that was given her .
It matched the stuffs so perfectly , and never tied itself in knots , or broke perpetually , as most thread did .
She finished her work much quicker than she expected and the bride said she was to be sure to come to the church and see her in her wedding dress .
There was a great crowd assembled to witness the ceremony , for the young people were immense favourites in the neighbourhood , and their parents were very rich .
The doors were open , and the bride could be seen from afar , walking under the chestnut avenue .
` What a beautiful girl ! '
exclaimed the men .
` What a lovely dress ! '
whispered the women .
But just as she entered the church and took the hand of the bridegroom , who was waiting for her , a loud noise was heard .
` Crick !
crack !
Crick !
crack ! '
and the wedding garments fell to the ground , to the great confusion of the wearer .
Not that the ceremony was put off for a little thing like that !
Cloaks in profusion were instantly offered to the young bride , but she was so upset that she could hardly keep from tears .
One of the guests , more curious than the rest , stayed behind to examine the dress , determined , if she could , to find out the cause of the disaster .
` The thread must have been rotten , ' she said to herself . '
I will see if I can break it . '
But search as she would she could find none .
The thread had vanished !
From ` Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
The Three Crowns There was once a king who had three daughters .
The two eldest were very proud and quarrelsome , but the youngest was as good as they were bad .
Well , three princes came to court them , and two of them were exactly like the eldest ladies , and one was just as lovable as the youngest .
One day they were all walking down to a lake that lay at the bottom of the lawn when they met a poor beggar .
The king would n't give him anything , and the eldest princesses would n't give him anything , nor their sweethearts ; but the youngest daughter and her true love did give him something , and kind words along with it , and that was better than all .
When they got to the edge of the lake what did they find but the beautifullest boat you ever saw in your life ; and says the eldest , ` I 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and says the second eldest , ` I 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and says the youngest , ' I wo n't take a sail in that fine boat , for I am afraid it 's an enchanted one . '
But the others persuaded her to go in , and her father was just going in after her , when up sprung on the deck a little man only seven inches high , and ordered him to stand back .
Well , all the men put their hands to their swords ; and if the same swords were only playthings , they were n't able to draw them , for all strength that was left their arms .
Seven Inches loosened the silver chain that fastened the boat , and pushed away , and after grinning at the four men , says he to them .
` Bid your daughters and your brides farewell for awhile .
You , ' says he to the youngest , ` need n't fear , you 'll recover your princess all in good time , and you and she will be as happy as the day is long .
Bad people , if they were rolling stark naked in gold , would not be rich .
Good-bye . '
Away they sailed , and the ladies stretched out their hands , but were n't able to say a word .
Well , they were n't crossing the lake while a cat ` ud be lickin ' her ear , and the poor men could n't stir hand or foot to follow them .
They saw Seven Inches handing the three princesses out of the boat , and letting them down by a basket into a draw-well , but king nor princes ever saw an opening before in the same place .
When the last lady was out of sight , the men found the strength in their arms and legs again .
Round the lake they ran , and never drew rein till they came to the well and windlass ; and there was the silk rope rolled on the axle , and the nice white basket hanging to it .
` Let me down , ' says the youngest prince .
` I 'll die or recover them again . '
` No , ' says the second daughter 's sweetheart , ` it is my turn first . '
And says the other , ' I am the eldest . '
So they gave way to him , and in he got into the basket , and down they let him .
First they lost sight of him , and then , after winding off a hundred perches of the silk rope , it slackened , and they stopped turning .
They waited two hours , and then they went to dinner , because there was no pull made at the rope .
Guards were set till next morning , and then down went the second prince , and sure enough , the youngest of all got himself let down on the third day .
He went down perches and perches , while it was as dark about him as if he was in a big pot with a cover on .
At last he saw a glimmer far down , and in a short time he felt the ground .
Out he came from the big lime-kiln , and , lo !
and behold you , there was a wood , and green fields , and a castle in a lawn , and a bright sky over all .
` It 's in Tir-na-n-Oge I am , ' says he .
` Let 's see what sort of people are in the castle . '
On he walked , across fields and lawn , and no one was there to keep him out or let him into the castle ; but the big hall-door was wide open .
He went from one fine room to another that was finer , and at last he reached the handsomest of all , with a table in the middle .
And such a dinner as was laid upon it !
The prince was hungry enough , but he was too mannerly to eat without being invited .
So he sat by the fire , and he did not wait long till he heard steps , and in came Seven Inches with the youngest sister by the hand .
Well , prince and princess flew into one another 's arms , and says the little man , says he , ` Why are n't you eating ? ' '
I think , sir , ' says the prince , ` it was only good manner to wait to be asked . '
` The other princes did n't think so , ' says he .
` Each o ' them fell to without leave , and only gave me the rough words when I told them they were making more free than welcome .
Well , I do n't think they feel much hunger now .
There they are , good marble instead of flesh and blood , ' says he , pointing to two statues , one in one corner , and the other in the other corner of the room .
The prince was frightened , but he was afraid to say anything , and Seven Inches made him sit down to dinner between himself and his bride ; and he 'd be as happy as the day is long , only for the sight of the stone men in the corner .
Well , that day went by , and when the next came , says Seven Inches to him , ` Now , you 'll have to set out that way , ' pointing to the sun , ` and you 'll find the second princess in a giant 's castle this evening , when you 'll be tired and hungry , and the eldest princess to-morrow evening ; and you may as well bring them here with you .
You need not ask leave of their masters ; and perhaps if they ever get home , they 'll look on poor people as if they were flesh and blood like themselves . '
Away went the prince , and bedad !
it 's tired and hungry he was when he reached the first castle , at sunset .
Oh , was n't the second princess glad to see him !
And what a good supper she gave him .
But she heard the giant at the gate , and she hid the prince in a closet .
Well , when he came in , he snuffed , an ' he snuffed , and says he , ` By the life , I smell fresh meat . '
` Oh , ' says the princess , ` it 's only the calf I got killed to-day . '
` Ay , ay , ' says he , ` is supper ready ? '
` It is , ' says she ; and before he rose from the table he ate three-quarters of a calf , and a flask of wine . '
I think , ' says he , when all was done , ' I smell fresh meat still . '
` It 's sleepy you are , ' says she ; ` go to bed . '
` When will you marry me ? '
says the giant .
` You 're putting me off too long . '
` St. Tibb 's Eve , ' says she . '
I wish I knew how far off that is , ' says he ; and he fell asleep , with his head in the dish .
Next day , he went out after breakfast , and she sent the prince to the castle where the eldest sister was .
The same thing happened there ; but when the giant was snoring , the princess wakened up the prince , and they saddled two steeds in the stables and rode into the field on them .
But the horses ' heels struck the stones outside the gate , and up got the giant and strode after them .
He roared and he shouted , and the more he shouted , the faster ran the horses , and just as the day was breaking he was only twenty perches behind .
But the prince did n't leave the castle of Seven Inches without being provided with something good .
He reined in his steed , and flung a short , sharp knife over his shoulder , and up sprung a thick wood between the giant and themselves .
They caught the wind that blew before them , and the wind that blew behind them did not catch them .
At last they were near the castle where the other sister lived ; and there she was , waiting for them under a high hedge , and a fine steed under her .
But the giant was now in sight , roaring like a hundred lions , and the other giant was out in a moment , and the chase kept on .
For every two springs the horses gave , the giants gave three , and at last they were only seventy perches off .
Then the prince stopped again , and flung the second knife behind him .
Down went all the flat field , till there was a quarry between them a quarter of a mile deep , and the bottom filled with black water ; and before the giants could get round it , the prince and princesses were inside the kingdom of the great magician , where the high thorny hedge opened of itself to everyone that he chose to let in .
There was joy enough between the three sisters , till the two eldest saw their lovers turned into stone .
But while they were shedding tears for them , Seven Inches came in , and touched them with his rod .
So they were flesh , and blood , and life once more , and there was great hugging and kissing , and all sat down to breakfast , and Seven Inches sat at the head of the table .
When breakfast was over , he took them into another room , where there was nothing but heaps of gold , and silver , and diamonds , and silks , and satins ; and on a table there was lying three sets of crowns : a gold crown was in a silver crown , and that was lying in a copper crown .
He took up one set of crowns , and gave it to the eldest princess ; and another set , and gave it to the second youngest princess ; and another , and gave it to the youngest of all ; and says he , ` Now you may all go to the bottom of the pit , and you have nothing to do but stir the basket , and the people that are watching above will draw you up .
But remember , ladies , you are to keep your crows safe , and be married in them , all the same day .
If you be married separately , or if you be married without your crowns , a curse will follow -- mind what I say . '
So they took leave of him with great respect , and walked arm-in-arm to the bottom of the draw-well .
There was a sky and a sun over them , and a great high wall , covered with ivy , rose before them , and was so high they could not see to the top of it ; and there was an arch in this wall , and the bottom of the draw-well was inside the arch .
The youngest pair went last ; and says the princess to the prince , ` I 'm sure the two princes do n't mean any good to you .
Keep these crowns under your cloak , and if you are obliged to stay last , do n't get into the basket , but put a big stone , or any heavy thing inside , and see what will happen . '
As soon as they were inside the dark cave , they put in the eldest princess first , and stirred the basket , and up she went .
Then the basket was let down again , and up went the second princess , and then up went the youngest ; but first she put her arms round her prince 's neck , and kissed him , and cried a little .
At last it came to the turn of the youngest prince , and instead of going into the basket he put in a big stone .
He drew on one side and listened , and after the basket was drawn up about twenty perches , down came it and the stone like thunder , and the stone was broken into little bits .
Well , the poor prince had nothing for it but to walk back to the castle ; and through it and round it he walked , and the finest of eating and drinking he got , and a bed of bog-down to sleep on , and long walks he took through gardens and lawns , but not a sight could he get , high or low , of Seven Inches .
He , before a week , got tired of it , he was so lonesome for his true love ; and at the end of a month he did n't know what to do with himself .
One morning he went into the treasure room , and took notice of a beautiful snuff-box on the table that he did n't remember seeing there before .
He took it in his hands and opened it , and out Seven Inches walked on the table . '
I think , prince , ' says he , ` you 're getting a little tired of my castle ? '
` Ah ! '
says the other , ` if I had my princess here , and could see you now and then , I 'd never know a dismal day . '
` Well , you 're long enough here now , and you 're wanted there above .
Keep your bride 's crowns safe , and whenever you want my help , open this snuff-box .
Now take a walk down the garden , and come back when you 're tired . '
The prince was going down a gravel walk with a quickset hedge on each side , and his eyes on the ground , and he was thinking of one thing and another .
At last he lifted his eyes , and there he was outside of a smith 's gate that he often passed before , about a mile away from the palace of his betrothed princess .
The clothes he had on him were as ragged as you please , but he had his crowns safe under his old cloak .
Then the smith came out , and says he , ` It 's a shame for a strong , big fellow like you to be lazy , and so much work to be done .
Are you any good with hammer and tongs ?
Come in and bear a hand , an I 'll give you diet and lodging , and a few pence when you earn them . '
` Never say ' t twice , ' says the prince . '
I want nothing but to be busy . '
So he took the hammer , and pounded away at the red-hot bar that the smith was turning on the anvil to make into a set of horse-shoes .
They had n't been long at work when a tailor came in , and he sat down and began to talk .
` You all heard how the two princess were loth to be married till the youngest would be ready with her crowns and her sweetheart .
But after the windlass loosened accidentally when they were pulling up her bridegroom that was to be , there was no more sign of a well , or a rope , or a windlass , than there is on the palm of your hand .
So the princes that were courting the eldest ladies would n't give peace or ease to their lovers nor the king till they got consent to the marriage , and it was to take place this morning .
Myself went down out o ' curiousity , and to be sure I was delighted with the grand dresses of the two brides , and the three crowns on their heads -- gold , silver , and copper , one inside the other .
The youngest was standing by mournful enough , and all was ready .
The two bridegrooms came in as proud and grand as you please , and up they were walking to the altar rails , when the boards opened two yards wide under their feet , and down they went among the dead men and the coffins in the vaults .
Oh , such shrieks as the ladies gave !
and such running and racing and peeping down as there was !
but the clerk soon opened the door of the vault , and up came the two princes , their fine clothes covered an inch thick with cobwebs and mould .
So the king said they should put off the marriage .
` For , ' says he , ' I see there is no use in thinking of it till the youngest gets her three crowns , and is married with the others .
I 'll give my youngest daughter for a wife to whoever brings three crowns to me like the others ; and if he does n't care to be married , some other one will , and I 'll make his fortune . ' '
I wish , ' says the smith , ' I could do it ; but I was looking at the crowns after the princesses got home , and I do n't think there 's a black or a white smith on the face of the earth that could imitate them . '
` Faint heart never won fair lady , ' says the prince .
` Go to the palace and ask for a quarter of a pound of gold , a quarter of a pound of silver , and a quarter of a pound of copper .
Get one crown for a pattern , and my head for a pledge , I 'll give you out the very things that are wanted in the morning . '
` Are you in earnest ? '
says the smith .
` Faith , I am so , ' says he .
` Go !
you ca n't do worse than lose . '
To make a long story short , the smith got the quarter of a pound of gold , and the quarter of a pound of silver , and the quarter of a pound of copper , and gave them and the pattern crown to the prince .
He shut the forge door at nightfall , and the neighbours all gathered in the yard , and they heard him hammering , hammering , hammering , from that to daybreak ; and every now and then he 'd throw out through the window bits of gold , silver , and copper ; and the idlers scrambled for them , and cursed one another , and prayed for the good luck of the workman .
Well , just as the sun was thinking to rise , he opened the door , and brought out the three crowns he got from his true love , and such shouting and huzzaing as there was !
The smith asked him to go along with him to the palace , but he refused ; so off set the smith , and the whole townland with him ; and was n't the king rejoiced when he saw the crowns !
` Well , ' says he to the smith , ` you 're a married man .
What 's to be done ? '
` Faith , your majesty , I did n't make them crowns at all .
It was a big fellow that took service with me yesterday . '
` Well , daughter , will you marry the fellow that made these crowns ? '
` Let me see them first , father , ' said she ; but when she examined them she knew them right well , and guessed it was her true love that sent them . '
I will marry the man that these crowns came from , ' says she .
` Well , ' says the king to the elder of the two princes , ` go up to the smith 's forge , take my best coaches , and bring home the bridegroom . '
He did not like doing this , he was so proud , but he could not refuse .
When he came to the forge he saw the prince standing at the door , and beckoned him over to the coach .
` Are you the fellow , ' says he , ` that made these crowns ? '
` Yes , ' says the other .
` Then , ' says he , ` maybe you 'd give yourself a brushing , and get into that coach ; the king wants to see you .
I pity the princess . '
The young prince got into the carriage , and while they were on the way he opened the snuff-box , and out walked Seven Inches , and stood on his thigh .
` Well , ' says he , ` what trouble is on you now ? '
` Master , ' says the other , ` please let me go back to my forge , and let this carriage be filled with paving stones . '
No sooner said than done .
The prince was sitting in his forge , and the horses wondered what was after happening to the carriage .
When they came into the palace yard , the king himself opened the carriage door , for respect to his new son-in-law .
As soon as he turned the handle , a shower of small stones fell on his powdered wig and his silk coat , and down he fell under them .
There was great fright and some laughter , and the king , after he wiped the blood from his forehead , looked very cross at the eldest prince .
` My lord , ' says he , ` I 'm very sorry for this accident , but I 'm not to blame .
I saw the young smith get into the carriage , and we never stopped a minute since . '
` It 's uncivil you were to him .
Go , ' says he to the other prince , ` and bring the young smith here , and be polite . '
` Never fear , ' says he .
But there 's some people that could n't be good-natured if they tried , and not a bit civiller was the new messenger than the old , and when the king opened the carriage door a second time , it 's shower of mud that came down on him .
` There 's no use , ' says he , ` going on this way .
The fox never got a better messenger than himself . '
So he changed his clothes , and washed himself , and out he set to the prince 's forge and asked him to sit along with himself .
The prince begged to be allowed to sit in the other carriage , and when they were half-way he opened his snuff-box .
` Master , ' says he , ` I 'd wish to be dressed now according to my rank . '
` You shall be that , ' says Seven Inches .
` And now I 'll bid you farewell .
Continue as good and kind as you always were ; love your wife ; and that 's all the advice I 'll give you . '
So Seven Inches vanished ; and when the carriage door was opened in the yard , out walks the prince as fine as hands could make him , and the first thing he did was to run over to his bride and embrace her .
Every one was full of joy but the two other princes .
There was not much delay about the marriages , and they were all celebrated on the one day .
Soon after , the two elder couples went to their own courts , but the youngest pair stayed with the old king , and they were as happy as the happiest married couple you ever heard of in a story .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Story of a Very Bad Boy Once upon a time there lived in a little village in the very middle of France a widow and her only son , a boy about fifteen , whose name was Antoine , though no one ever called him anything but Toueno-Boueno .
They were very poor indeed , and their hut shook about their ears on windy nights , till they expected the walls to fall in and crush them , but instead of going to work as a boy of his age ought to do , Toueno-Boueno did nothing but lounge along the street , his eyes fixed on the ground , seeing nothing that went on round him .
` You are very , very stupid , my dear child , ' his mother would sometimes say to him , and then she would add with a laugh , ` Certainly you will never catch a wolf by the tail . '
One day the old woman bade Antoine go into the forest and collect enough dry leaves to make beds for herself and him .
Before he had finished it began to rain heavily , so he hid himself in the hollow trunk of a tree , where he was so dry and comfortable that he soon fell fast asleep .
By and by he was awakened by a noise which sounded like a dog scratching at the door , and he suddenly felt frightened , why he did not know .
Very cautiously he raised his head , and right above him he saw a big hairy animal , coming down tail foremost .
` It is the wolf that they talk so much about , ' he said to himself , and he made himself as small as he could and shrunk into a corner .
The wolf came down the inside of the tree , slowly , slowly ; Antoine felt turned to stone , so terrified was he , and hardly dared to breathe .
Suddenly an idea entered his mind , which he thought might save him still .
He remembered to have heard from his mother that a wolf could neither bend his back nor turn his head , so as to look behind him , and quick as lightning he stretched up his hand , and seizing the wolf 's tail , pulled it towards him .
Then he left the tree and dragged the animal to his mother 's house .
` Mother , you have often declared that I was too stupid to catch a wolf by the tail .
Now see , ' he cried triumphantly .
` Well , well , wonders will never cease , ' answered the good woman , who took care to keep at a safe distance .
` But as you really have got him , let us see if we ca n't put him to some use .
Fetch the skin of the ram which died last week out of the chest , and we will sew the wolf up in it .
He will make a splendid ram , and to-morrow we will drive him to the fair and sell him . '
Very likely the wolf , who was cunning and clever , may have understood what she said , but he thought it best to give no sign , and suffered the skin to be sewn upon him . '
I can always get away if I choose , ' thought he , ` it is better not to be in a hurry ; ' so he remained quite still while the skin was drawn over his head , which made him very hot and uncomfortable , and resisted the temptation to snap off the fingers or noses that were so close to his mouth .
The fair was at its height next day when Toueno-Boueno arrived with his wolf in ram 's clothing .
All the farmers crowded round him , each offering a higher price than the last .
Never had they beheld such a beautiful beast , said they , and at last , after much bargaining , he was handed over to three brothers for a good sum of money .
It happened that these three brothers owned large flocks of sheep , though none so large and fine as the one they had just bought .
` My flock is the nearest , ' observed the eldest brother ; ` we will leave him in the fold for the night , and to-morrow we will decide which pastures will be best for him . '
And the wolf grinned as he listened , and held up his head a little higher than before .
Early next morning the young farmer began to go his rounds , and the sheep-fold was the first place he visited .
To his horror , the sheep were all stretched out dead before him , except one , which the wolf had eaten , bones and all .
Instantly the truth flashed upon him .
It was no ram that lay curled up in the corner pretending to be asleep -LRB- for in reality he could bend back and turn his head as much as he liked -RRB- , but a wolf who was watching him out of the corner of his eye , and might spring upon him at any moment .
So the farmer took no notice , and only thought that here was a fine chance of revenging himself on his next brother for a trick which he had played , and merely told him that the ram would not eat the grass in that field , and it might be well to drive him to the pasture by the river , where his own flock was feeding .
The second brother eagerly swallowed the bait , and that evening the wolf was driven down to the field where the young man kept the sheep which had been left him by his father .
By the next morning they also were all dead , but the second brother likewise held his peace , and allowed the sheep which belonged to the youngest to share the fate of the other two .
Then they met and confessed to each other their disasters , and resolved to take the animal as fast as possible back to Toueno-Boueno , who should get a sound thrashing .
Antoine was sitting on a plum tree belonging to a neighbour , eating the ripe fruit , when he saw the three young farmers coming towards him .
Swinging himself down , he flew home to the hut , crying breathlessly , ` Mother , mother , the farmers are close by with the wolf .
They have found out all about it , and will certainly kill me , and perhaps you too .
But if you do as I tell you , I may be able to save us both .
Lie down on the floor , and pretend to be dead , and be sure not to speak , whatever happens .
Thus when the three brothers , each armed with a whip , entered the hut a few seconds later , they found a woman extended on the floor , and Toueno kneeling at her side , whistling loudly into her ears .
` What are you doing now , you rascal ? '
asked the eldest .
` What am I doing ?
Oh , my poor friends , I am the most miserable creature in the world !
I have lost the best of mothers , and I do n't know what will become of me , ' and he hid his face in his hands and sobbed again .
` But what are you whistling like that for ? '
` Well , it is the only chance .
This whistle has been known to bring the dead back to life , and I hoped -- ' here he buried his face in his hands again , but peeping between his fingers he saw that the brother had opened their six eyes as wide as saucers .
` Look ! '
he suddenly exclaimed with a cry , ` Look !
I am sure I felt her body move !
And now her nostrils are twitching .
Ah !
the whistle has not lost its power after all , ' and stooping down , Toueno whistled more loudly than before , so that the old woman 's feet and hands showed signs of life , and she soon was able to life her head .
The farmers were so astonished at her restoration , that it was some time before they could speak .
At length the eldest turned to the boy and said : ` Now listen to me .
There is no manner of doubt that you are a young villain .
You sold us a ram knowing full well that it was a wolf , and we came here to-day to pay you out for it .
But if you will give us that whistle , we will pardon what you have done , and will leave you alone . '
` It is my only treasure , and I set great store by it , ' answered the boy , pretending to hesitate .
` But as you wish for it so much , well , I suppose I ca n't refuse , ' and he held out the whistle , which the eldest brother put in his pocket .
Armed with the precious whistle , the three brothers returned home full of joy , and as they went the youngest said to the others , ' I have such a good idea !
Our wives are all lazy and grumbling , and make our lives a burden .
Let us give them a lesson , and kill them as soon as we get in .
Of course we can restore them to life at once , but they will have had a rare fright . '
` Ah , how clever you are , ' answered the other two .
` Nobody else would have thought of that . '
So gaily the three husbands knocked down their three wives , who fell dead to the ground .
Then one by one the men tried the whistle , and blew so loudly that it seemed as if their lungs would burst , but the women lay stark and stiff and never moved an eyelid .
The husbands grew pale and cold , for they had never dreamed of this , nor meant any harm , and after a while they understood that their efforts were of no use , and that once more the boy had tricked them .
With stern faces they rose to their feet , and taking a large sack they retraced their steps to the hut .
This time there was no escape .
Toueno had been asleep , and only opened his eyes as they entered .
Without a word on either side they thrust him into the sack , and tying up the mouth , the eldest threw it over his shoulder .
After that they all set out to the river , where they intended to drown the boy .
But the river was a long way off , and the day was very hot , and Antoine was heavy , heavier than a whole sheaf of corn .
They carried him in turns , but even so they grew very tired and thirsty , and when a little tavern came in sight on the roadside , they thankfully flung the sack down on a bench and entered to refresh themselves .
They never noticed that a beggar was sitting in the shade at the end of the bench , but Toueno 's sharp ears caught the sound of someone eating , and as soon as the farmers had gone into the inn he began to groan softly .
` What is the matter ? '
asked the beggar , drawing a little nearer .
` Why have they shut you up , poor boy ? '
` Because they wanted to make me a bishop , and I would not consent , ' answered Toueno .
` Dear me , ' exclaimed the beggar , ` yet it is n't such a bad thing to be a bishop . ' '
I do n't say it is , ' replied the young rascal , ` but I should never like it .
However , if you have any fancy for wearing a mitre , you need only untie the sack , and take my place . ' '
I should like nothing better , ' said the man , as he stooped to undo the big knot .
So it was the beggar and not Toueno-Boueno who was flung into the water .
The next morning the three wives were buried , and on returning from the cemetery , their husbands met Toueno-Boueno driving a magnificent flock of sheep .
At the sight of him the three farmers stood still with astonishment .
` What !
you scoundrel ! '
they cried at last , ` we drowned you yesterday , and to-day we find you again , as well as ever ! '
` It does seem odd , does n't it ? '
answered he .
` But perhaps you do n't know that beneath this world there lies another yet more beautiful and far , far richer .
Well , it was there that you sent me when you flung me into the river , and though I felt a little strange at first , yet I soon began to look about me , and to see what was happening .
There I noticed that close to the place where I had fallen , a sheep fair was being held , and a bystander told me that every day horses or cattle were sold somewhere in the town .
If I had only had the luck to be thrown into the river on the side of the horse fair I might have made my fortune !
As it was , I had to content myself with buying these sheep , which you can get for nothing . '
` And do you know exactly the spot in the river which lies over the horse fair ? '
` As if I did not know it , when I have seen it with my own eyes . '
` Then if you do not want us to avenge our dead flocks and our murdered wives , you will have to throw us into the river just over the place of the horse fair . '
` Very well ; only you must get three sacks and come with me to that rock which juts into the river .
I will throw you in from there , and you will fall nearly on to the horses ' backs . '
So he threw them in , and as they were never seen again , no one ever knew into which fair they had fallen .
From ` Litterature Orale de L'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
The Brown Bear of Norway There was once a king in Ireland , and he had three daughters , and very nice princesses they were .
And one day , when they and their father were walking on the lawn , the king began to joke with them , and to ask them whom they would like to be married to .
` I 'll have the king of Ulster for a husband , ' says one ; ` and I 'll have the king of Munster , ' says another ; ` and , ' says the youngest , ` I 'll have no husband but the Brown Bear of Norway . '
For a nurse of hers used to be telling her of an enchanted prince that she called by that name , and she fell in love with him , and his name was the first name on her tongue , for the very night before she was dreaming of him .
Well , one laughed , and another laughed , and they joked with the princess all the rest of the evening .
But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps ; the richest carpets were on the floor , and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver , and the place was full of grand company , and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there , and it was n't a moment till he was on one knee before her , and telling her how much he loved her , and asking her would n't she be his queen .
Well , she had n't the heart to refuse him , and married they were the same evening .
` Now , my darling , ' says he , when they were left by themselves , ` you must know that I am under enchantment .
A sorceress , that had a beautiful daughter , wished me for her son-in-law ; but the mother got power over me , and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day , and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will , and endure five years of great trials after . '
Well , when the princess woke in the morning , she missed her husband from her side , and spent the day very sadly .
But as soon as the lamps were lighted in the grand hall , where she was sitting on a sofa covered with silk , the folding doors flew open , and he was sitting by her side the next minute .
So they spent another happy evening , but he warned her that whenever she began to tire of him , or ceased to have faith in him , they would be parted for ever , and he 'd be obliged to marry the witch 's daughter .
She got used to find him absent by day , and they spent a happy twelvemonth together , and at last a beautiful little boy was born ; and happy as she was before , she was twice as happy now , for she had her child to keep her company in the day when she could n't see her husband .
At last , one evening , when herself , and himself , and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night , in flew an eagle , took the infant 's sash in his beak , and flew up in the air with him .
She screamed , and was going to throw herself out the window after him , but the prince caught her , and looked at her very seriously .
She bethought of what he said soon after their marriage , and she stopped the cries and complaints that were on her tongue .
She spent her days very lonely for another twelvemonth , when a beautiful little girl was sent to her .
Then she thought to herself she 'd have a sharp eye about her this time ; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inches open .
But all her care was in vain .
Another evening , when they were all so happy , and the prince dandling the baby , a beautiful greyhound stood before them , took the child out of the father 's hand , and was out of the door before you could wink .
This time she shouted and ran out of the room , but there were some of the servants in the next room , and all declared that neither child nor dog passed out .
She felt , somehow , as if it was her husband 's fault , but still she kept command over herself , and did n't once reproach him .
When the third child was born she would hardly allow a window or a door to be left open for a moment ; but she was n't the nearer to keep the child to herself .
They were sitting one evening by the fire , when a lady appeared standing by them .
The princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her , and while she was doing so , the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father 's lap , and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney .
This time the mother kept her bed for a month .
` My dear , ' said she to her husband , when she was beginning to recover , ' I think I 'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother and sisters once more .
If you give me leave to go home for a few days I 'd be glad . '
` Very well , ' said he , ' I will do that , and whenever you feel inclined to return , only mention your wish when you lie down at night . '
The next morning when she awoke she found herself in her own old chamber in her father 's palace .
She rang the bell , and in a short time she had her mother and father and married sisters about her , and they laughed till they cried for joy at finding her safe back again .
In time she told them all that had happened to her , and they did n't know what to advise her to do .
She was as fond of her husband as ever , and said she was sure that he could n't help letting the children go ; but still she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her .
Well , the mother and sisters consulted a wise woman that used to bring eggs to the castle , for they had great faith in her wisdom .
She said the only plan was to secure the bear 's skin that the prince was obliged to put on every morning , and get it burned , and then he could n't help being a man night and day , and the enchantment would be at an end .
So they all persuaded her to do that , and she promised she would ; and after eight days she felt so great a longing to see her husband again that she made the wish the same night , and when she woke three hours after , she was in her husband 's palace , and he himself was watching over her .
There was great joy on both sides , and they were happy for many days .
Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning , and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed .
One night she contrived not to drink any of it , though she pretended to do so ; and she was wakeful enough in the morning , and saw her husband passing out through a panel in the wainscot , though she kept her eyelids nearly closed .
The next night she got a few drops of the sleepy posset that she saved the evening before put into her husband 's night drink , and that made him sleep sound enough .
She got up after midnight , passed through the panel , and found a Beautiful brown bear 's hide hanging in the corner .
Then she stole back , and went down to the parlour fire , and put the hide into the middle of it till it was all fine ashes .
She then lay down by her husband , gave him a kiss on the cheek , and fell asleep .
If she was to live a hundred years she 'd never forget how she wakened next morning , and found her husband looking down on her with misery and anger in his face .
` Unhappy woman , ' said he , ` you have separated us for ever !
Why had n't you patience for five years ?
I am now obliged , whether I like or no , to go a three days ' journey to the witch 's castle , and marry her daughter .
The skin that was my guard you have burned it , and the egg-wife that gave you the counsel was the witch herself .
I wo n't reproach you : your punishment will be severe without it .
Farewell for ever ! '
He kissed her for the last time , and was off the next minute , walking as fast as he could .
She shouted after him , and then seeing there was no use , she dressed herself and pursued him .
He never stopped , nor stayed , nor looked back , and still she kept him in sight ; and when he was on the hill she was in the hollow , and when he was in the hollow she was on the hill .
Her life was almost leaving her , when , just as the sun was setting , he turned up a lane , and went into a little house .
She crawled up after him , and when she got inside there was a beautiful little boy on his knees , and he kissing and hugging him .
` Here , my poor darling , ' says he , ` is your eldest child , and there , ' says he , pointing to a woman that was looking on with a smile on her face , ` is the eagle that carried him away . '
She forgot all her sorrows in a moment , hugging her child , and laughing and crying over him .
The woman washed their feet , and rubbed them with an ointment that took all the soreness out of their bones , and made them as fresh as a daisy .
Next morning , just before sunrise , he was up , and prepared to be off , ` Here , ' said he to her , ` is a thing which may be of use to you .
It 's a scissors , and whatever stuff you cut with it will be turned into silk .
The moment the sun rises , I 'll lose all memory of yourself and the children , but I 'll get it at sunset again .
Farewell ! '
But he was n't far gone till she was in sight of him again , leaving her boy behind .
It was the same to-day as yesterday : their shadows went before them in the morning and followed them in the evening .
He never stopped , and she never stopped , and as the sun was setting he turned up another lane , and there they found their little daughter .
It was all joy and comfort again till morning , and then the third day 's journey commenced .
But before he started he gave her a comb , and told her that whenever she used it , pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair .
Still he had his memory from sunset to sunrise ; but from sunrise to sunset he travelled on under the charm , and never threw his eye behind .
This night they came to where the youngest baby was , and the next morning , just before sunrise , the prince spoke to her for the last time .
` Here , my poor wife , ' said he , ` is a little hand-reel , with gold thread that has no end , and the half of our marriage ring .
If you ever get to my house , and put your half-ring to mine , I shall recollect you .
There is a wood yonder , and the moment I enter it I shall forget everything that ever happened between us , just as if I was born yesterday .
Farewell , dear wife and child , for ever ! '
Just then the sun rose , and away he walked towards the wood .
She saw it open before him and close after him , and when she came up , she could no more get in than she could break through a stone wall .
She wrung her hands and shed tears , but then she recollected herself , and cried out , ` Wood , I charge you by my three magic gifts , the scissors , the comb , and the reel -- to let me through ' ; and it opened , and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace , and a lawn , and a woodman 's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace .
She went into the lodge , and asked the woodman and his wife to take her into their service .
They were not willing at first ; but she told them she would ask no wages , and would give them diamonds , and pearls , and silk stuffs , and gold thread whenever they wished for them , and then they agreed to let her stay .
It was n't long till she heard how a young prince , that was just arrived , was living in the palace of the young mistress .
He seldom stirred abroad , and every one that saw him remarked how silent and sorrowful he went about , like a person that was searching for some lost thing .
The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge , and to annoy her with their impudence .
The head footman was the most troublesome , and at last she invited him to come and take tea with her .
Oh , how rejoiced he was , and how he bragged of it in the servants ' hall !
Well , the evening came , and the footman walked into the lodge , and was shown to her sitting-room ; for the lodge-keeper and his wife stood in great awe of her , and gave her two nice rooms for herself .
Well , he sat down as stiff as a ramrod , and was talking in a grand style about the great doings at the castle , while she was getting the tea and toast ready .
` Oh , ' says she to him , ` would you put your hand out at the window and cut me off a sprig or two of honeysuckle ? '
He got up in great glee , and put out his hand and head ; and said she , ` By the virtue of my magic gifts , let a pair of horns spring out of your head , and sing to the lodge . '
Just as she wished , so it was .
They sprung from the front of each ear , and met at the back .
Oh , the poor wretch !
And how he bawled and roared !
and the servants that he used to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle , and grinning , and huzzaing , and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans ; and he cursing and swearing , and the eyes ready to start out of his head , and he so black in the face , and kicking out his legs behind him like mad .
At last she pitied him , and removed the charm , and the horns dropped down on the ground , and he would have killed her on the spot , only he was as weak as water , and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house .
Well , some way or other the story came to the ears of the prince , and he strolled down that way .
She had only the dress of a countrywoman on her as she sat sewing at the window , but that did not hide her beauty , and he was greatly puzzled after he had a good look , just as a body is puzzled to know whether something happened to him when he was young or if he only dreamed it .
Well , the witch 's daughter heard about it too , and she came to see the strange girl ; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper ; and as she cut away , the paper became the richest silk she ever saw .
The witch 's daughter looked on with greedy eyes , and , says she , ` What would you be satisfied to take for that scissors ? '
` I 'll take nothing , ' says she , ` but leave to spend one night outside the prince 's chamber . '
Well , the proud lady fired up , and was going to say something dreadful ; but the scissors kept on cutting , and the silk growing richer and richer every inch .
So she promised what the girl had asked her .
When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did could n't awake him .
She sung this verse to him , sighing and sobbing , and kept singing it the night long , and it was all in vain : Four long years I was married to thee ; Three sweet babes I bore to thee ; Brown Bear of Norway , turn to me .
At the first dawn the proud lady was in the chamber , and led her away , and the footman of the horns put out his tongue at her as she was quitting the palace .
So there was no luck so far ; but the next day the prince passed by again and looked at her , and saluted her kindly , as a prince might a farmer 's daughter , and passed one ; and soon the witch 's daughter passed by , and found her combing her hair , and pearls and diamonds dropping from it .
Well , another bargain was made , and the princess spent another night of sorrow , and she left the castle at daybreak , and the footman was at his post and enjoyed his revenge .
The third day the prince went by , and stopped to talk with the strange woman .
He asked her could he do anything to serve her , and she said he might .
She asked him did he ever wake at night .
He said that he often did , but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams , and could not wake , and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago .
Says she , ` Did you drink any sleepy posset either of these evenings before you went to bed ? ' '
I did , ' said he .
` The two evenings my wife gave me something to drink , but I do n't know whether it was a sleepy posset or not . '
` Well , prince , ' said she , ` as you say you would wish to oblige me , you can do it by not tasting any drink to-night . ' '
I will not , ' says he , and then he went on his walk .
Well , the great lady came soon after the prince , and found the stranger using her hand-reel and winding threads of gold off it , and the third bargain was made .
That evening the prince was lying on his bed at twilight , and his mind much disturbed ; and the door opened , and in his princess walked , and down she sat by his bedside and sung : Four long years I was married to thee ; Three sweet babes I bore to thee ; Brown Bear of Norway , turn to me .
` Brown Bear of Norway ! '
said he . '
I do n't understand you . '
` Do n't you remember , prince , that I was your wedded wife for four years ? ' '
I do not , ' said he , ` but I 'm sure I wish it was so . '
` Do n't you remember our three babes that are still alive ? '
` Show me them .
My mind is all a heap of confusion . '
` Look for the half of our marriage ring , that hangs at your neck , and fit it to this . '
He did so , and the same moment the charm was broken .
His full memory came back on him , and he flung his arms round his wife 's neck , and both burst into tears .
Well , there was a great cry outside , and the castle walls were heard splitting and cracking .
Everyone in the castle was alarmed , and made their way out .
The prince and princess went with the rest , and by the time all were safe on the lawn , down came the building , and made the ground tremble for miles round .
No one ever saw the witch and her daughter afterwards .
It was not long till the prince and princess had their children with them , and then they set out for their own palace .
The kings of Ireland and of Munster and Ulster , and their wives , soon came to visit them , and may every one that deserves it be as happy as the Brown Bear of Norway and his family .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
Little Lasse There was once a little boy whose name was Lars , and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse ; he was a brave little man , for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat .
It was summer time , when the pea shells grew long and green in the garden .
Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap , and he picked seventeen large shells , the longest and straightest he could find .
Little Lasse thought , perhaps , that no one saw him ; but that was foolish , for God sees everywhere .
Then the gardener came with his gun over his shoulder , and he heard something rustling in the pea bed . '
I think that must be a sparrow , ' he said .
` Ras !
Ras ! '
but no sparrows flew out , for Little Lasse had no wings , only two small legs .
` Wait !
I will load my gun and shoot the sparrows , ' said the gardener .
Then Little Lasse was frightened , and crept out on to the path .
` Forgive me , dear gardener ! '
he said . '
I wanted to get some fine boats . '
` Well , I will this time , ' said the gardener .
` But another time Little Lasse must ask leave to go and look for boats in the pea bed . ' '
I will , ' answered Lasse ; and he went off to the shore .
Then he opened the shells with a pin , split them carefully in two , and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers ' seats .
Then he took the peas which were in the shells and put them in the boats for cargo .
Some of the shells got broken , some remained whole , and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats .
But they should not be boats , they should be large warships .
He had three liners , three frigates , three brigs and three schooners .
The largest liner was called Hercules , and the smallest schooner The Flea .
Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water , and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean .
And now the ships must sail round the world .
The great island over there was Asia ; that large stone Africa ; the little island America ; the small stones were Polynesia ; and the shore from which the ships sailed out was Europe .
The whole fleet set off and sailed far away to other parts of the world .
The ships of the line steered a straight course to Asia , the frigates sailed to Africa , the brigs to America , and the schooners to Polynesia .
But Little Lasse remained in Europe , and threw small stones out into the great sea .
Now , there was on the shore of Europe a real boat , father 's own , a beautiful white-painted boat , and Little Lasse got into it .
Father and mother had forbidden this , but Little Lasse forgot .
He thought he should very much like to travel to some other part of the world . '
I shall row out a little way -- only a very little way , ' he thought .
The pea-shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like little specks on the ocean . '
I shall seize Hercules on the coast of Asia , ' said Lasse , ` and then row home again to Europe . '
He shook the rope that held the boat , and , strange to say , the rope became loose .
Ditsch , ratsch , a man is a man , and so Little Lasse manned the boat .
Now he would row -- and he could row , for he had rowed so often on the step sat home , when the steps pretended to be a boat and father 's big stick an oar .
But when Little Lasse wanted to row there were no oars to be found in the boat .
The oars were locked up in the boat-house , and Little Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty .
It is not so easy as one thinks to row to Asia without oars .
What could Little Lasse do now ?
The boat was already some distance out on the sea , and the wind , which blew from land , was driving it still further out .
Lasse was frightened and began to cry .
But there was no one on the shore to hear him .
Only a big crow perched alone in the birch tree ; and the gardener 's black cat sat under the birch tree , waiting to catch the crow .
Neither of them troubled themselves in the least about Little Lasse , who was drifting out to sea .
Ah !
how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and got into the boat , when father and mother had so often forbidden him to do so !
Now it was too late , he could not get back to land .
Perhaps he would be lost out on the great sea .
What should he do ?
When he had shouted until he was tired and no one heard him , he put his two little hands together and said , ` Good God , do not be angry with Little Lasse . '
And then he went to sleep .
For although it was daylight , old Nukku Matti was sitting on the shores of the ` Land of Nod , ' and was fishing for little children with his long fishing rod .
He heard the low words which Little Lasse said to God , and he immediately drew the boat to himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves .
Then Nukku Matti said to one of the Dreams , ` Play with Little Lasse , so that he does not feel lonesome . '
It was a little dream-boy , so little , so little , that he was less than Lasse himself ; he had blue eyes and fair hair , a red cap with a silver band , and white coat with pearls on the collar .
He came to Little Lasse and said , ` Would you like to sail round the world ? '
` Yes , ' said Lasse in his sleep , ' I should like to . '
` Come , then , ' said the dream-boy , ` and let us sail in your pea-shell boats .
You shall sail in Hercules and I shall sail in The Flea . '
So they sailed away from the ` Land of Nod , ' and in a little while Hercules and The Flea were on the shores of Asia away at the other end of the world , where the Ice Sea flows through Behring Straits into the Pacific Ocean .
A long way off in the winter mist they could see the explorer Nordenskiold with his ship Vega trying to find an opening between the ice .
It was so cold , so cold ; the great icebergs glittered strangely , and the huge whales now lived under the ice , for they could not make a hole through with their awkward heads .
All around on the dreary shore there was snow and snow as far as the eye could see ; little grey men in shaggy skins moved about , and drove in small sledges through the snow drifts , but the sledges were drawn by dogs .
` Shall we land here ? '
asked the dream-boy .
` No , ' said Little Lasse . '
I am so afraid that the whales would swallow us up , and the big dogs bite us .
Let us sail instead to another part of the world . '
` Very well , ' said the dream-boy with the red cap and the silver band ; ` it is not far to America ' -- and at the same moment they were there .
The sun was shining and it was very warm .
Tall palm trees grew in long rows on the shore and bore coconuts in their top branches .
Men red as copper galloped over the immense green prairies and shot their arrows at the buffaloes , who turned against them with their sharp horns .
An enormous cobra which had crept up the stem of a tall palm tree threw itself on to a little llama that was grazing at the foot .
Knaps !
it was all over the little llama .
` Shall we land here ? '
asked the dream-boy .
` No , ' said Little Lasse . '
I am so afraid that the buffaloes will butt us , and the great serpent eat us up .
Let us travel to another part of the world . '
` Very well , ' said the dream-boy with the white coat , ` it is only a little way to Polynesia ' -- and then they were there .
It was very warm there , as warm as in a hot bath in Finland .
Costly spices grew on the shores : the pepper plant , the cinnamon tree , ginger , saffron ; the coffee plant and the tea plant .
Brown people with long ears and thick lips , and hideously painted faces , hunted a yellow-spotted tiger among the high bamboos on the shore , and the tiger turned on them and stuck its claws into one of the brown men .
Then all the others took to flight .
` Shall we land here ? '
asked the dream-boy .
` No , ' said Little Lasse .
` Do n't you see the tiger away there by the pepper plant ?
Let us travel to another part of the world . '
` We can do so , ' said the dream-boy with the blue eyes .
` We are not far from Africa ' -- and as he said that they were there .
They anchored at the mouth of a great river where the shores were as green as the greenest velvet .
A little distance from the river an immense desert stretched away .
The air was yellow ; the sun shone so hot , so hot as if it would burn the earth to ashes , and the people were as black as the blackest jet .
They rode across the desert on tall camels ; the lions roared with thirst , and the great crocodiles with their grey lizard heads and sharp white teeth gaped up out of the river .
` Shall we land here ? '
asked the dream-boy .
` No , ' said Little Lasse .
` The sun would burn us , and the lions and the crocodiles would eat us up .
Let us travel to another part of the world . '
` We can travel back to Europe , ' said the dream-boy with the fair hair .
And with that they were there .
They came to a shore where it was all so cool and familiar and friendly .
There stood the tall birch tree with its drooping leaves ; at the top sat the old crow , and at its foot crept the gardener 's black cat .
Not far away was a house which Little Lasse had seen before ; near the house there was a garden , and in the garden a pea bed with long pea shells .
An old gardener with a green coat walked about and wondered if the cucumbers were ripe .
Fylax was barking on the steps , and when he saw Little Lasse he wagged his tail .
Old Stina was milking the cows in the farmyard , and there was a very familiar lady in a check woollen shawl on her way to the bleaching green to see if the clothes were bleached .
There was , too , a well-known gentleman in a yellow summer coat , with a long pipe in his mouth ; he was going to see if the reapers had cut the rye .
A boy and a girl were running on the shore and calling out , ` Little Lasse !
Come home for bread-and-butter ! '
` Shall we land here ? '
asked the dream-boy , and he blinked his blue eyes roguishly .
` Come with me , and I shall ask mother to give you some bread-and-butter and a glass of milk , ' said Little Lasse .
` Wait a little , ' said the dream-boy .
And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door was open , and from within there was heard a low , pleasant frizzling , like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan .
` Perhaps we should sail back to Polynesia now ? '
said the happy dream-boy .
` No ; they are frying pancakes in Europe just now , ' said Little Lasse ; and he wanted to jump ashore , but he could not .
The dream-boy had tied him with a chain of flowers , so that he could not move .
And now all the little dreams came about him , thousands and thousands of little children , and they made a ring around him and sang a little song : The world is very , very wide , Little Lasse , Lasse , And though you 've sailed beyond the tide , You can never tell how wide It is on the other side , Lasse , Little Lasse .
You have found it cold and hot , Little Lasse , Lasse ; But in no land is God not , Lasse , Little Lasse .
Many men live there as here , But they all to God are dear , Little Lasse , Lasse .
When His angel is your guide , Little Lasse , Lasse , Then no harm can e'er betide , Even on the other side Where the wild beasts wander .
But tell us now , Whene'er you roam , Do you not find the best is home Of all the lands you 've looked upon , Lasse , Little Lasse ?
When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away , and Nukku Matti carried Lasse back to the boat .
He lay there for a long time quite still , and he still heard the frying-pan frizzling at home of the fire , the frizzling was very plain , Little Lasse heard it quite near him ; and so he woke up and rubbed his eyes .
There he lay in the boat , where he had fallen asleep .
The wind had turned , and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in with another while Little Lasse slept , and what Lasse thought was frizzling in a frying-pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed against the stones on the shore .
But he was not altogether wrong , for the clear blue sea is like a great pan in which God 's sun all day makes cakes for good children .
Little Lasse rubbed the sleep out of his eyes and looked around him .
Everything was the same as before ; the crow in the birch tree , the cat on the grass , and the pea-shell fleet on the shore .
Some of the ships had foundered , and some had drifted back to land .
Hercules had come back with its cargo from Asia , The Flea had arrived from Polynesia , and the other parts of the world were just where they were before .
Little Lasse did not know what to think .
He had so often been in that grotto in the ` Land of Nod ' and did not know what tricks dreams can play .
But Little Lasse did not trouble his head with such things ; he gathered together his boats and walked up the shore back to the house .
His brother and sister ran to meet him , and called out from the distance , ` Where have you been so long , Lasse ?
Come home and get some bread-and-butter . '
The kitchen door stood open , and inside was heard a strange frizzling .
The gardener was near the gate , watering the dill and parsley , the carrots and parsnips .
` Well , ' he said , ` where has Little Lasse been so long ? '
Little Lasse straightened himself up stiff , and answered : ' I have sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat . '
` Oh ! '
said the gardener .
He has forgotten Dreamland .
But you have not forgotten it ; you know that it exists .
You know the beautiful grotto and the bright silver walls whose lustre never fades , the sparkling diamonds which never grow dim , the music which never ceases its low , soft murmur through the sweet evening twilight .
The airy fairy fancies of happy Dreamland never grow old ; they , like the glorious stars above us , are always young .
Perhaps you have caught a glimpse of their ethereal wings as they flew around your pillow .
Perhaps you have met the same dream-boy with the blue eyes and the fair hair , the one who wore the red cap with the silver band and the white coat with pearls on the collar .
Perhaps he has taken you to see all the countries of the world and the peoples , the cold waste lands and the burning deserts , the many coloured men and the wild creatures in the sea and in the woods , so that you may earn many things , but come gladly home again .
Yes , who knows ?
Perhaps you also have sailed round the wide world once in a pea-shell boat .
From Z. Topelius .
` Moti ' Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti , who was very big and strong , but the clumsiest creature you can imagine .
So clumsy was he that he was always putting his great feet into the bowls of sweet milk or curds which his mother set out on the floor to cool , always smashing , upsetting , breaking , until at last his father said to him : ` Here , Moti , are fifty silver pieces which are the savings of years ; take them and go and make your living or your fortune if you can . '
Then Moti started off one early spring morning with his thick staff over his shoulder , singing gaily to himself as he walked along .
In one way and another he got along very well until a hot evening when he came to a certain city where he entered the travellers ' ` serai ' or inn to pass the night .
Now a serai , you must know , is generally just a large square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beasts , and with perhaps a few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or too proud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses .
Moti , of course , was a country lad and had lived with cattle all his life , and he was n't rich and he was n't proud , so he just borrowed a bed from the innkeeper , set it down beside an old buffalo who reminded him of home , and in five minutes was fast asleep .
In the middle of the night he woke , feeling that he had been disturbed , and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen .
He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake , but , though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them , he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief .
He was just about to give it up when he overheard two men whispering , and one laughed softly , and peering behind a pillar , he saw two Afghan horsedealers counting out his bag of money !
Then Moti went back to bed !
In the morning Moti followed the two Afghans outside the city to the horsemarket in which they horses were offered for sale .
Choosing the best-looking horse amongst them he went up to it and said : ` Is this horse for sale ?
may I try it ? '
and , the merchants assenting , he scrambled up on its back , dug in his heels , and off they flew .
Now Moti had never been on a horse in his life , and had so much ado to hold on with both hands as well as with both legs that the animal went just where it liked , and very soon broke into a break-neck gallop and made straight back to the serai where it had spent the last few nights .
` This will do very well , ' thought Moti as they whirled in at the entrance .
As soon as the horse had arrived at its table it stopped of its own accord and Moti immediately rolled off ; but he jumped up at once , tied the beast up , and called for some breakfast .
Presently the Afghans appeared , out of breath and furious , and claimed the horse .
` What do you mean ? '
cried Moti , with his mouth full of rice , ` it 's my horse ; I paid you fifty pieces of silver for it -- quite a bargain , I 'm sure ! '
` Nonsense !
it is our horse , ' answered one of the Afghans beginning to untie the bridle .
` Leave off , ' shouted Moti , seizing his staff ; ` if you do n't let my horse alone I 'll crack your skulls !
you thieves !
I know you !
Last night you took my money , so to-day I took your horse ; that 's fair enough ! '
Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable , but Moti seemed so determined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law , so they went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolen one of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it .
Presently a soldier came to summon Moti to the king ; and , when he arrived and made his obeisance , the king began to question him as to why he had galloped off with the horse in this fashion .
But Moti declared that he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver , whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them was what they had received for the sale of other horses ; and in one way and another the dispute got so confusing that the king -LRB- who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse -RRB- said at last , ` Well , I tell you what I will do .
I will lock something into this box before me , and if he guesses what it is , the horse is his , and if he does n't then it is yours . '
To this Moti agreed , and the king arose and went out alone by a little door at the back of the Court , and presently came back clasping something closely wrapped up in a cloth under his robe , slipped it into the little box , locked the box , and set it up where all might see .
` Now , ' said the king to Moti , ` guess ! '
It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him , Moti noticed that there was a garden outside : without waiting for the king 's return he began to think what could be got out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box .
` Is it likely to be a fruit or a flower ?
No , not a flower this time , for he clasped it too tight .
Then it must be a fruit or a stone .
Yet not a stone , because he would n't wrap a dirty stone in his nice clean cloth .
Then it is a fruit !
And a fruit without much scent , or else he would be afraid that I might smell it .
Now what fruit without much scent is in season just now ?
When I know that I shall have guessed the riddle ! '
As has been said before , Moti was a country lad , and was accustomed to work in his father 's garden .
He knew all the common fruits , so he thought he ought to be able to guess right ; but so as not to let it seem too easy , he gazed up at the ceiling with a puzzled expression , and looked down at the floor with an air or wisdom and his fingers pressed against his forehead , and then he said , slowly , with his eyes on the king , -- ` It is freshly plucked !
It is round and it is red !
It is a pomegranate ! '
Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat ; and , as for seasons , he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it , and saw that he got it ; so to him Moti 's guess was like a miracle , and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence , for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box .
Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti 's wisdom , everybody else did so too ; and , whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen , Moti took the horse and entered the king 's service .
Very soon after this , Moti , who continued to live in the serai , came back one wet and stormy evening to find that his precious horse had strayed .
Nothing remained of him but a broken halter cord , and no one knew what had become of him .
After inquiring of everyone who was likely to know , Moti seized the cord and his big staff and sallied out to look for him .
Away and away he tramped out of the city and into the neighbouring forest , tracking hoof-marks in the mud .
Presently it grew late , but still Moti wandered on until suddenly in the gathering darkness he came right upon a tiger who was contentedly eating his horse .
` You thief ! '
shrieked Moti , and ran up and , just as the tiger , in astonishment , dropped a bone -- whack !
came Moti 's staff on his head with such good will that the beast was half stunned and could hardly breathe or see .
Then Moti continued to shower upon him blows and abuse until the poor tiger could hardly stand , whereupon his tormentor tied the end of the broken halter round his neck and dragged him back to the serai .
` If you had my horse , ' he said , ' I will at least have you , that 's fair enough ! '
And he tied him up securely by the head and heels , much as he used to tie the horse ; then , the night being far gone , he flung himself beside him and slept soundly .
You can not imagine anything like the fright of the people in the serai , when they woke up and found a tiger -- very battered but still a tiger -- securely tethered amongst themselves and their beasts !
Men gathered in groups talking and exclaiming , and finding fault with the innkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai , and all the while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest , and none dared go near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone , and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder .
At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for a live tiger ; and the monarch himself came down , half disbelieving the tale , to see if it were really true .
Someone at last awaked Moti with the news that his royal master was come ; and he arose yawning , and was soon delightedly explaining and showing off his new possession .
The king , however , did not share his pleasure at all , but called up a soldier to shoot the tiger , much to the relief of all the inmates of the serai except Moti .
If the king , however , was before convinced that Moti was one of the wisest of men , he was now still more convinced that he was the bravest , and he increased his pay a hundredfold , so that our hero thought that he was the luckiest of men .
A week or two after this incident the king sent for Moti , who on arrival found his master in despair .
A neighbouring monarch , he explained , who had many more soldiers than he , had declared war against him , and he was at his wits ' end , for he had neither money to buy him off nor soldiers enough to fight him -- what was he to do ?
` If that is all , do n't you trouble , ' said Moti .
` Turn out your men , and I 'll go with them , and we 'll soon bring this robber to reason . '
The king began to revive at these hopeful words , and took Moti off to his stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked .
There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls , but to the king 's astonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable .
` But why do you choose that beast ? '
said the king .
` Well , you see , your majesty , ' replied Moti , ` there are so many chances that I may fall off , and if I choose one of your fine big horses I shall have so far to fall that I shall probably break my leg or my arm , if not my neck , but if I fall off this little beast I ca n't hurt myself much . '
A very comical sight was Moti when he rode out to the war .
The only weapon he carried was his staff , and to help him to keep his balance on horseback he had tied to each of his ankles a big stone that nearly touched the ground as he sat astride the little pony .
The rest of the king 's cavalry were not very numerous , but they pranced along in armour on fine horses .
Behind them came a great rabble of men on foot armed with all sorts of weapons , and last of all was the king with his attendants , very nervous and ill at ease .
So the army started .
They had not very far to go , but Moti 's little pony , weighted with a heavy man and two big rocks , soon began to lag behind the cavalry , and would have lagged behind the infantry too , only they were not very anxious to be too early in the fight , and hung back so as to give Moti plenty of time .
The young man jogged along more and more slowly for some time , until at last , getting impatient at the slowness of the pony , he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lost his temper and bolted .
First one stone became untied and rolled away in a cloud of dust to one side of the road , whilst Moti nearly rolled off too , but clasped his steed valiantly by its ragged mane , and , dropping his staff , held on for dear life .
Then , fortunately the other rock broke away from his other leg and rolled thunderously down a neighbouring ravine .
Meanwhile the advanced cavalry had barely time to draw to one side when Moti came dashing by , yelling bloodthirsty threats to his pony : ` You wait till I get hold of you !
I 'll skin you alive !
I 'll wring your neck !
I 'll break every bone in your body ! '
The cavalry thought that this dreadful language was meant for the enemy , and were filled with admiration of his courage .
Many of their horses too were quite upset by this whirlwind that galloped howling through their midst , and in a few minutes , after a little plunging and rearing and kicking , the whole troop were following on Moti 's heels .
Far in advance , Moti continued his wild career .
Presently in his course he came to a great field of castor-oil plants , ten or twelve feet high , big and bushy , but quite green and soft .
Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing , but its roots gave way , and he dashed on , with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip .
The enemy were in battle array , advancing over the plain , their king with them confident and cheerful , when suddenly from the front came a desperate rider at a furious gallop .
` Sire ! '
he cried , ` save yourself !
the enemy are coming ! '
` What do you mean ? '
said the king .
` Oh , sire ! '
panted the messenger , ` fly at once , there is no time to lose .
Foremost of the enemy rides a mad giant at a furious gallop .
He flourishes a tree for a club and is wild with anger , for as he goes he cries , `` You wait till I get hold of you !
I 'll skin you alive !
I 'll wring your neck !
I 'll break every bone in your body ! ''
Others ride behind , and you will do well to retire before this whirlwind of destruction comes upon you . '
Just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw Moti approaching at a hard gallop , looking indeed like a giant compared with the little beast he rode , whirling his castor-oil plant , which in the distance might have been an oak tree , and the sound of his revilings and shoutings came down upon the breeze !
Behind him the dust cloud moved to the sound of the thunder of hoofs , whilst here and there flashed the glitter of steel .
The sight and the sound struck terror into the king , and , turning his horse , he fled at top speed , thinking that a regiment of yelling giants was upon him ; and all his force followed him as fast as they might go .
One fat officer alone could not keep up on foot with that mad rush , and as Moti came galloping up he flung himself on the ground in abject fear .
This was too much for Moti 's excited pony , who shied so suddenly that Moti went flying over his head like a sky rocket , and alighted right on the top of his fat foe .
Quickly regaining his feet Moti began to swing his plant round his head and to shout : ` Where are your men ?
Bring them up and I 'll kill them .
My regiments !
Come on , the whole lot of you !
Where 's your king ?
Bring him to me .
Here are all my fine fellows coming up and we 'll each pull up a tree by the roots and lay you all flat and your houses and towns and everything else !
Come on ! '
But the poor fat officer could do nothing but squat on his knees with his hands together , gasping .
At last , when he got his breath , Moti sent him off to bring his king , and to tell him that if he was reasonable his life should be spared .
Off the poor man went , and by the time the troops of Moti 's side had come up and arranged themselves to look as formidable as possible , he returned with his king .
The latter was very humble and apologetic , and promised never to make war any more , to pay a large sum of money , and altogether do whatever his conqueror wished .
So the armies on both sides went rejoicing home , and this was really the making of the fortune of clumsy Moti , who lived long and contrived always to be looked up to as a fountain of wisdom , valour , and discretion by all except his relations , who could never understand what he had done to be considered so much wiser than anyone else .
A Pushto Story .
The Enchanted Deer A young man was out walking one day in Erin , leading a stout cart-horse by the bridle .
He was thinking of his mother and how poor they were since his father , who was a fisherman , had been drowned at sea , and wondering what he should do to earn a living for both of them .
Suddenly a hand was laid on his shoulder , and a voice said to him : ` Will you sell me your horse , son of the fisherman ? '
and looking up he beheld a man standing in the road with a gun in his hand , a falcon on his shoulder , and a dog by his side .
` What will you give me for my horse ? '
asked the youth .
` Will you give me your gun , and your dog , and your falcon ? ' '
I will give them , ' answered the man , and he took the horse , and the youth took the gun and the dog and the falcon , and went home with them .
But when his mother heard what he had done she was very angry , and beat him with a stick which she had in her hand .
` That will teach you to sell my property , ' said she , when her arm was quite tired , but Ian her son answered her nothing , and went off to his bed , for he was very sore .
That night he rose softly , and left the house carrying the gun with him . '
I will not stay here to be beaten , ' thought he , and he walked and he walked and he walked , till it was day again , and he was hungry and looked about him to see if he could get anything to eat .
Not very far off was a farm-house , so he went there , and knocked at the door , and the farmer and his wife begged him to come in , and share their breakfast .
` Ah , you have a gun , ' said the farmer as the young man placed it in a corner .
` That is well , for a deer comes every evening to eat my corn , and I can not catch it .
It is fortune that has sent you to me . ' '
I will gladly remain and shoot the deer for you , ' replied the youth , and that night he hid himself and watched till the deer came to the cornfield ; then he lifted his gun to his shoulder and was just going to pull the trigger , when , behold !
instead of a deer , a woman with long black hair was standing there .
At this sight his gun almost dropped from his hand in surprise , but as he looked , there was the deer eating the corn again .
And thrice this happened , till the deer ran away over the moor , and the young man after her .
On they went , on and on and one , till they reached a cottage which was thatched with heather .
With a bound the deer sprang on the roof , and lay down where none could see her , but as she did so she called out , ` Go in , fisher 's son , and eat and drink while you may . '
So he entered and found food and wine on the table , but no man , for the house belonged to some robbers , who were still away at their wicked business .
After Ian , the fisher 's son , had eaten all he wanted , he hid himself behind a great cask , and very soon he heard a noise , as of men coming through the heather , and the small twigs snapping under their feet .
From his dark corner he could see into the room , and he counted four and twenty of them , all big , cross-looking men .
` Some one has been eating our dinner , ' cried they , ` and there was hardly enough for ourselves . '
` It is the man who is lying under the cask , ' answered the leader .
` Go and kill him , and then come and eat your food and sleep , for we must be off betimes in the morning . '
So four of them killed the fisher 's son and left him , and then went to bed .
By sunrise they were all out of the house , for they had far to go .
And when they had disappeared the deer came off the roof , to where the dead man lay , and she shook her head over him , and wax fell from her ear , and he jumped up as well as ever .
` Trust me and eat as you did before , and no harm shall happen to you , ' said she .
So Ian ate and drank , and fell sound asleep under the cask .
In the evening the robbers arrived very tired , and crosser than they had been yesterday , for their luck had turned and they had brought back scarcely anything .
` Someone has eaten our dinner again , ' cried they .
` It is the man under the barrel , ' answered the captain .
` Let four of you go and kill him , but first slay the other four who pretended to kill him last night and did n't because he is still alive . '
Then Ian was killed a second time , and after the rest of the robbers had eaten , they lay down and slept till morning .
No sooner were their faces touched with the sun 's rays than they were up and off .
Then the deer entered and dropped the healing wax on the dead man , and he was as well as ever .
By this time he did not mind what befell him , so sure was he that the deer would take care of him , and in the evening that which had happened before happened again -- the four robbers were put to death and the fisher 's son also , but because there was no food left for them to eat , they were nearly mad with rage , and began to quarrel .
From quarrelling they went on to fighting , and fought so hard that by and bye they were all stretched dead on the floor .
Then the deer entered , and the fisher 's son was restored to life , and bidding him follow her , she ran on to a little white cottage where dwelt an old woman and her son , who was thin and dark .
` Here I must leave you , ' said the deer , ` but to-morrow meet me at midday in the church that is yonder . '
And jumping across the stream , she vanished into a wood .
Next day he set out for the church , but the old woman of the cottage had gone before him , and had stuck an enchanted stick called ` the spike of hurt ' in a crack of the door , so that he would brush against it as he stepped across the threshold .
Suddenly he felt so sleepy that he could not stand up , and throwing himself on the ground he sank into a deep slumber , not knowing that the dark lad was watching him .
Nothing could waken him , not even the sound of sweetest music , nor the touch of a lady who bent over him .
A sad look came on her face , as she saw it was no use , and at last she gave it up , and lifting his arm , wrote her name across the side -- ` the daughter of the king of the town under the waves . ' '
I will come to-morrow , ' she whispered , though he could not hear her , and she went sorrowfully away .
Then he awoke , and the dark lad told him what had befallen him , and he was very grieved .
But the dark lad did not tell him of the name that was written underneath his arm .
On the following morning the fisher 's son again went to the church , determined that he would not go to sleep , whatever happened .
But in his hurry to enter he touched with his hand the spike of hurt , and sank down where he stood , wrapped in slumber .
A second time the air was filled with music , and the lady came in , stepping softly , but though she laid his head on her knee , and combed his hair with a golden comb , his eyes opened not .
Then she burst into tears , and placing a beautifully wrought box in his pocket she went her way .
The next day the same thing befell the fisher 's son , and this time the lady wept more bitterly than before , for she said it was the last chance , and she would never be allowed to come any more , for home she must go .
As soon as the lady had departed the fisher 's son awoke , and the dark lad told him of her visit , and how he would never see her as long as he lived .
At this the fisher 's son felt the cold creeping up to his heart , yet he knew the fault had not been his that sleep had overtaken him . '
I will search the whole world through till I find her , ' cried he , and the dark lad laughed as he heard him .
But the fisher 's son took no heed , and off he went , following the sun day after day , till his shoes were in holes and his feet were sore from the journey .
Nought did he see but the birds that made their nests in the trees , not so much as a goat or a rabbit .
On and on and on he went , till suddenly he came upon a little house , with a woman standing outside it .
` All hail , fisher 's son ! '
said she . '
I know what you are seeking ; enter in and rest and eat , and to-morrow I will give you what help I can , and send you on your way . '
Gladly did Ian the fisher 's son accept her offer , and all that day he rested , and the woman gave him ointment to put on his feet , which healed his sores .
At daybreak he got up , ready to be gone , and the woman bade him farewell , saying : ' I have a sister who dwells on the road which you must travel .
It is a long road , and it would take you a year and a day to reach it , but put on these old brown shoes with holes all over them , and you will be there before you know it .
Then shake them off , and turn their toes to the known , and their heels to the unknown , and they will come home of themselves . '
The fisher 's son did as the woman told him , and everything happened just as she had said .
But at parting the second sister said to him , as she gave him another pair of shoes : ` Go to my third sister , for she has a son who is keeper of the birds of the air , and sends them to sleep when night comes .
He is very wise , and perhaps he can help you . '
Then the young man thanked her , and went to the third sister .
The third sister was very kind , but had no counsel to give him , so he ate and drank and waited till her son came home , after he had sent all the birds to sleep .
He thought a long while after his mother had told him the young man 's story , and at last he said that he was hungry , and the cow must be killed , as he wanted some supper .
So the cow was killed and the meat cooked , and a bag made of its red skin .
` Now get into the bag , ' bade the son , and the young man got in and took his gun with him , but the dog and the falcon he left outside .
The keeper of the birds drew the string at the top of the bag , and left it to finish his supper , when in flew an eagle through the open door , and picked the bag up in her claws and carried it through the air to an island .
There was nothing to eat on the island , and the fisher 's son thought he would die of food , when he remembered the box that the lady had put in his pocket .
He opened the lid , and three tiny little birds flew out , and flapping their wings they asked , ` Good master , is there anything we can do for thee ? '
` Bear me to the kingdom of the king under the waves , ' he answered , and one little bird flew on to his head , and the others perched on each of his shoulders , and he shut his eyes , and in a moment there he was in the country under the sea .
Then the birds flew away , and the young man looked about him , his heart beating fast at the thought that here dwelt the lady whom he had sought all the world over .
He walked on through the streets , and presently he reached the house of a weaver who was standing at his door , resting from his work .
` You are a stranger here , that is plain , ' said the weaver , ` but come in , and I will give you food and drink . '
And the young man was glad , for he knew not where to go , and they sat and talked till it grew late .
` Stay with me , I pray , for I love company and am lonely , ' observed the weaver at last , and he pointed to a bed in a corner , where the fisher 's son threw himself , and slept till dawn .
` There is to be a horse-race in the town to-day , ' remarked the weaver , ` and the winner is to have the king 's daughter to wife . '
The young man trembled with excitement at the news , and his voice shook as he answered : ` That will be a prize indeed , I should like to see the race . '
` Oh , that is quite easy -- anyone can go , ' replied the weaver . '
I would take you myself , but I have promised to weave this cloth for the king . '
` That is a pity , ' returned the young man politely , but in his heart he rejoiced , for he wished to be alone .
Leaving the house , he entered a grove of trees which stood behind , and took the box from his pocket .
He raised the lid , and out flew the three little birds .
` Good master , what shall we do for thee ? '
asked they , and he answered , ` Bring me the finest horse that ever was seen , and the grandest dress , and glass shoes . '
` They are here , master , ' said the birds , and so they were , and never had the young man seen anything so splendid .
Mounting the horse he rode into the ground where the horses were assembling for the great race , and took his place among them .
Many good beasts were there which had won many races , but the horse of the fisher 's son left them all behind , and he was first at the winning post .
The king 's daughter waited for him in vain to claim his prize , for he went back to the wood , and got off his horse , and put on his old clothes , and bade the box place some gold in his pockets .
After that he went back to the weaver 's house , and told him that the gold had been given him by the man who had won the race , and that the weaver might have it for his kindness to him .
Now as nobody had appeared to demand the hand of the princess , the king ordered another race to be run , and the fisher 's son rode into the field still more splendidly dressed than he was before , and easily distanced everybody else .
But again he left the prize unclaimed , and so it happened on the third day , when it seemed as if all the people in the kingdom were gathered to see the race , for they were filled with curiosity to know who the winner could be .
` If he will not come of his own free will , he must be brought , ' said the king , and the messengers who had seen the face of the victor were sent to seek him in every street of the town .
This took many days , and when at last they found the young man in the weaver 's cottage , he was so dirty and ugly and had such a strange appearance , that they declared he could not be the winner they had been searching for , but a wicked robber who had murdered ever so many people , but had always managed to escape .
` Yes , it must be the robber , ' said the king , when the fisher 's son was led into his presence ; ` build a gallows at once and hang him in the sight of all my subjects , that they may behold him suffer the punishment of his crimes . '
So the gallows was built upon a high platform , and the fisher 's son mounted the steps up to it , and turned at the top to make the speech that was expected from every doomed man , innocent or guilt .
As he spoke he happened to raise his arm , and the king 's daughter , who was there at her father 's side , saw the name which she had written under it .
With a shriek she sprang from her seat , and the eyes of the spectators were turned towards her .
` Stop !
stop ! '
she cried , hardly knowing what she said .
` If that man is hanged there is not a soul in the kingdom but shall die also . '
And running up to where the fisher 's son was standing , she took him by the hand , saying , ` Father , this is no robber or murderer , but the victor in the three races , and he loosed the spells that were laid upon me . '
Then , without waiting for a reply , she conducted him into the palace , and he bathed in a marble bath , and all the dirt that the fairies had put upon him disappeared like magic , and when he had dressed himself in the fine garments the princess had sent to him , he looked a match for any king 's daughter in Erin .
He went down into the great hall where she was awaiting him , and they had much to tell each other but little time to tell it in , for the king her father , and the princes who were visiting him , and all the people of the kingdom were still in their places expecting her return .
` How did you find me out ? '
she whispered as they went down the passage .
` The birds in the box told me , ' answered he , but he could say no more , as they stepped out into the open space that was crowded with people .
There the princes stopped . '
O kings ! '
she said , turning towards them , ` if one of you were killed to-day , the rest would fly ; but this man put his trust in me , and had his head cut off three times .
Because he has done this , I will marry him rather than one of you , who have come hither to wed me , for many kings here sought to free me from the spells , but none could do it save Ian the fisher 's son . '
From ` Popular Tales of the West Highlands . '
A Fish Story Perhaps you think that fishes were always fishes , and never lived anywhere except in the water , but if you went to Australia and talked to the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country , you would learn something quite different .
They would tell you that long , long ago you would have met fishes on the land , wandering from place to place , and hunting all sorts of animals , and if you consider how fishes are made , you will understand how difficult this must have been and how clever they were to do it .
Indeed , so clever were they that they might have been hunting still if a terrible thing had not happened .
One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition , and looked about for a nice , cool spot in which to pitch their camp .
It was very hot , and they thought that they could not find a more comfortable place than under the branches of a large tree which grew by the bank of a river .
So they made their fire to cook some food , right on the edge of a steep bank , which had a deep pool of water lying beneath it at the bottom .
While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree , and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun , and heavy drops of rain began to fall , so that the fire was almost put out , and that , you know , is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches , for it is very hard to light it again .
To make matters worse , an icy wind began to blow , and the poor fishes were chilled right through their bodies .
` This will never do , ' said Thuggai , the oldest of the fish tribe .
` We shall die of cold unless we can light the fire again , ' and he bade his sons rub two sticks together in the hope of kindling a flame , but though they rubbed till they were tired , not a spark could they produce .
` Let me try , ' cried Biernuga , the bony fish , but he had no better luck , and no more had Kumbal , the bream , nor any of the rest .
` It is no use , ' exclaimed Thuggai , at last .
` The wood is too wet .
We must just sit and wait till the sun comes out again and dries it . '
Then a very little fish indeed , not more than four inches long and the youngest of the tribe , bowed himself before Thuggai , saying , ` Ask my father , Guddhu the cod , to light the fire .
He is skilled in magic more than most fishes . '
So Thuggai asked him , and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree , and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes .
Then he knelt by the side of the fire and blew at it for a long while , till slowly the feeble red glow became a little stronger and the edges of the bark showed signs of curling up .
When the rest of the tribe saw this they pressed close , keeping their backs towards the piercing wind , but Guddhu told them they must go to the other side , as he wanted the wind to fan his fire .
By and by the spark grew into a flame , and a merry crackling was heard .
` More wood , ' cried Guddhi , and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped it on the flames , which leaped and roared and sputtered .
` We shall soon be warm now , ' said the people one to another .
` Truly Guddhu is great ' ; and they crowded round again , closer and closer .
Suddenly , with a shriek , a blast of wind swept down from the hills and blew the fire out towards them .
They sprang back hurriedly , quite forgetting where they stood , and all fell down the bank , each tumbling over the other , till they rolled into the pool that lay below .
Oh , how cold it was in that dark water on which the sun never shone !
Then in an instant they felt warm again , for the fire , driven by the strong wind , had followed them right down to the bottom of the pool , where it burned as brightly as ever .
And the fishes gathered round it as they had done on the top of the cliff , and found the flames as hot as before , and that fire never went out , like those upon land , but kept burning for ever .
So now you know why , if you dive deep down below the cold surface of the water on a frosty day , you will find it comfortable and pleasant underneath , and be quite sorry that you can not stay there .
Australian Folk Tale .
The Wonderful Tune .
Maurice Connor was the king , and that 's no small word , of all the pipers in Munster .
He could play jig and reel without end , and Ollistrum 's March , and the Eagle 's Whistle , and the Hen 's Concert , and odd tunes of every sort and kind .
But he knew one far more surprising than the rest , which had in it the power to set everything dead or alive dancing .
In what way he learned it is beyond my knowledge for he was mighty cautious about telling how he came by so wonderful a tune .
At the very first note of that tune the shoes began shaking upon the feet of all how heard it -- old or young , it mattered not -- just as if the shoes had the ague ; then the feet began going , going , going from under them , and at last up and away with them , dancing like mad , whisking here , there , and everywhere , like a straw in a storm -- there was no halting while the music lasted .
Not a fair , nor a wedding , nor a feast in the seven parishes round , was counted worth the speaking of without ` blind Maurice and his pipes . '
His mother , poor woman , used to lead him about from one place to another just like a dog .
Down through Iveragh , Maurice Connor and his mother were taking their rounds .
Beyond all other places Iveragh is the place for stormy coasts and steep mountains , as proper a spot it is as any in Ireland to get yourself drowned , or your neck broken on the land , should you prefer that .
But , notwithstanding , in Ballinskellig Bay there is a neat bit of ground , well fitted for diversion , and down from it , towards the water , is a clean smooth piece of strand , the dead image of a calm summer 's sea on a moonlight night , with just the curl of the small waves upon it .
Here is was that Maurice 's music had brought from all parts a great gathering of the young men and the young women ; for 't was not every day the strand of Trafraska was stirred up by the voice of a bagpipe .
The dance began ; and as pretty a dance it was as ever was danced .
` Brave music , ' said everybody , ` and well done , ' when Maurice stopped .
` More power to your elbow , Maurice , and a fair wind in the bellows , ' cried Paddy Dorman , a hump-backed dancing master , who was there to keep order . ''
Tis a pity , ' said he , ` if we 'd let the piper run dry after such music ; ` twould be a disgrace to Iveragh , that did n't come on it since the week of the three Sundays . '
So , as well became him , for he was always a decent man , says he , ` Did you drink , piper ? ' '
I will , sir , ' said Maurice , answering the question on the safe side , for you never yet knew piper or schoolmaster who refused his drink .
` What will you drink , Maurice ? '
says Paddy .
` I 'm no ways particular , ' says Maurice ; ' I drink anything , barring raw water ; but if it 's all the same to you , Mister Dorman , may be you would n't lend me the loan of a glass of whisky . '
` I 've no glass , Maurice , ' said Paddy ; ` I 've only the bottle . '
` Let that be no hindrance , ' answered Maurice ; ` my mouth just holds a glass to the drop ; often I 've tried it sure . '
So Paddy Dorman trusted him with the bottle -- more fool was he ; and , to his cost , he found that though Maurice 's mouth might not hold more than the glass at one time , yet , owing to the hole in his throat , it took many a filling .
` That was no bad whisky neither , ' says Maurice , handing back the empty bottle .
` By the holy frost , then ! '
says Paddy , '' tis but cold comfort there 's in that bottle now ; and 't is your word we must take for the strength of the whisky , for you 've left us no sample to judge by ' ; and to be sure Maurice had not .
Now I need not tell any gentleman or lady that if he or she was to drink an honest bottle of whisky at one pull , it is not at all the same thing as drinking a bottle of water ; and in the whole course of my life I never knew more than five men who could do so without being the worse .
Of these Maurice Connor was not one , though he had a stiff head enough of his own .
Do n't think I blame him for it ; but true is the word that says , ` When liquor 's in sense is out ' ; and puff , at a breath , out he blasted his wonderful tune .
'T was really then beyond all belief or telling the dancing .
Maurice himself could not keep quiet ; staggering now on one leg , now on the other , and rolling about like a ship in a cross sea , trying to humour the tune .
There was his mother , too , moving her old bones as light as the youngest girl of them all ; but her dancing , no , nor the dancing of all the rest , is not worthy the speaking about to the work that was going on down upon the strand .
Every inch of it covered with all manner of fish jumping and plunging about to the music , and every moment more and more would tumble in and out of the water , charmed by the wonderful tune .
Crabs of monstrous size spun round and round on one claw with the nimbleness of a dancing master , and twirled and tossed their other claws about like limbs that did not belong to them .
It was a sight surprising to behold .
But perhaps you may have heard of Father Florence Conry , as pleasant a man as one would wish to drink with of a hot summer 's day ; and he had rhymed out all about the dancing fishes so neatly that it would be a thousand pities not to give you his verses ; so here they are in English : The big seals in motion , Like waves of the ocean , Or gouty feet prancing , Came heading the gay fish , Crabs , lobsters , and cray-fish , Determined on dancing .
The sweet sounds they followed , The gasping cod swallow 'd -- 'T was wonderful , really ; And turbot and flounder , ` Mid fish that were rounder , Just caper 'd as gaily .
John-dories came tripping ; Dull hake , by their skipping , To frisk it seem 'd given ; Bright mackrel went springing , Like small rainbows winging Their flight up to heaven .
The whiting and haddock Left salt water paddock This dance to be put in ; Where skate with flat faces Edged out some old plaices ; But soles kept their footing .
Sprats and herrings in powers Of silvery showers All number out-numbered ; And great ling so lengthy Was there in such plenty The shore was encumber 'd .
The scallop and oyster Their two shells did roister , Like castanets flitting ; While limpets moved clearly , And rocks very nearly With laughter were splitting .
Never was such a hullabaloo in this world , before or since ; 't was as if heaven and earth were coming together ; and all out of Maurice Connor 's wonderful tune !
In the height of all these doings , what should there be dancing among the outlandish set of fishes but a beautiful young woman -- as beautiful as the dawn of day !
She had a cocked hat upon her head ; from under it her long green hair -- just the colour of the sea -- fell down behind , without hindrance to her dancing .
Her teeth were like rows of pearls ; her lips for all the world looked like red coral ; and she had a shining gown pale green as the hollow of the wave , with little rows of purple and red seaweeds settled out upon it ; for you never yet saw a lady , under the water or over the water , who had not a good notion of dressing herself out .
Up she danced at last to Maurice , who was flinging his feet from under him as fast as hops -- for nothing in this world could keep still while that tune of his was going on -- and says she to him , chanting it out with a voice as sweet as honey : I 'm a lady of honour Who live in the sea ; Come down , Maurice Connor , And be married to me .
Silver plates and gold dishes You shall have , and shall be The king of the fishes , When you 're married to me .
Drink was strong in Maurice 's head , and out he chanted in return for her great civility .
It is not every lady , may be , that would be after making such an offer to a blind piper ; therefore 't was only right in him to give her as good as she gave herself , so says Maurice : I 'm obliged to you , madam : Off a gold dish or plate , If a king , and I had 'em , I could dine in great state .
With your own father 's daughter I 'd be sure to agree , But to drink the salt water Would n't do so with me !
The lady looked at him quite amazed , and swinging her head from side to side like a great scholar , ` Well , ' says she , ` Maurice , if you 're not a poet , where is poetry to be found ? '
In this way they kept on at it , framing high compliments ; one answering the other , and their feet going with the music as fast as their tongues .
All the fish kept dancing , too ; Maurice heard the clatter and was afraid to stop playing lest it might be displeasing to the fish , and not knowing what so many of them may take it into their heads to do to him if they got vexed .
Well , the lady with the green hair kept on coaxing Maurice with soft speeches , till at last she over persuaded him to promise to marry her , and be king over the fishes , great and small .
Maurice was well fitted to be their king , if they wanted one that could make them dance ; and he surely would drink , barring the salt water , with any fish of them all .
When Maurice 's mother saw him with that unnatural thing in the form of a green-haired lady as his guide , and he and she dancing down together so lovingly to the water 's edge , through the thick of the fishes , she called out after him to stop and come back .
` Oh , then , ' says she , ` as if I was not widow enough before , there he is going away from me to be married to that scaly woman .
And who knows but 't is grandmother I may be to a hake or a cod -- Lord help and pity me , but 't is a mighty unnatural thing !
And my be 't is boiling and eating my own grandchild I 'll be , with a bit of salt butter , and I not knowing it !
Oh , Maurice , Maurice , if there 's any love or nature left in you , come back to your own ould mother , who reared you like a decent Christian ! '
Then the poor woman began to cry and sob so finely that it would do anyone good to hear her .
Maurice was not long getting to the rim of the water .
There he kept playing and dancing on as if nothing was the matter , and a great thundering wave coming in towards him ready to swallow him up alive ; but as he could not see it , he did not fear it .
His mother it was who saw it plainly through the big tears that were rolling down her cheeks ; and though she saw it , and her heart was aching as much as ever mother 's heart ached for a son , she kept dancing , dancing all the time for the bare life of her .
Certain it was she could not help it , for Maurice never stopped playing that wonderful tune of his .
He only turned his ear to the sound of his mother 's voice , fearing it might put him out in his steps , and all the answer he made back was , ` Whisht with you mother -- sure I 'm going to be king over the fishes down in the sea , and for a token of luck , and a sign that I 'm alive and well , I 'll send you in , every twelvemonth on this day , a piece of burned wood to Trafraska . '
Maurice had not the power to say a word more , for the strange lady with the green hair , seeing the wave just upon them , covered him up with herself in a thing like a cloak with a big hood to it , and the wave curling over twice as high as their heads , burst upon the strand , with a rush and a roar that might be heard as far as Cape Clear .
That day twelvemonth the piece of burned wood came ashore in Trafraska .
It was a queer thing for Maurice to think of sending all the way from the bottom of the sea .
A gown or a pair of shoes would have been something like a present for his poor mother ; but he had said it , and he kept his word .
The bit of burned wood regularly came ashore on the appointed day for as good , ay , and better than a hundred years .
The day is now forgotten , and may be that is the reason why people say how Maurice Connor has stopped sending the luck-token to his mother .
Poor woman , she did not live to get as much as one of them ; for what through the loss of Maurice , and the fear of eating her own grandchildren , she died in three weeks after the dance .
Some say it was the fatigue that killed her , but whichever it was , Mrs. Connor was decently buried with her own people .
Seafaring people have often heard , off the coast of Kerry , on a still night , the sound of music coming up from the water ; and some , who have had good ears , could plainly distinguish Maurice Connor 's voice singing these words to his pipes -- Beautiful shore , with thy spreading strand , Thy crystal water , and diamond sand ; Never would I have parted from thee , But for the sake of my fair ladie .
From ` Fairy Tales and Traditions of the South of Ireland . '
The Rich Brother and the Poor Brother There was once a rich old man who had two sons , and as his wife was dead , the elder lived with him , and helped him to look after his property .
For a long time all went well ; the young man got up very early in the morning , and worked hard all day , and at the end of every week his father counted up the money they had made , and rubbed his hands with delight , as he saw how big the pile of gold in the strong iron chest was becoming .
` It will soon be full now , and I shall have to buy a larger one , ' he said to himself , and so busy was he with the thought of his money , that he did not notice how bright his son 's face had grown , nor how he sometimes started when he was spoken to , as if his mind was far away .
One day , however , the old man went to the city on business , which he had not done for three years at least .
It was market day , and he met with many people he knew , and it was getting quite late when he turned into the inn yard , and bade an ostler saddle his horse , and bring it round directly .
While he was waiting in the hall , the landlady came up for a gossip , and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law , and whether he had been surprised at the marriage .
The old man stared as he listened to her .
` Daughter-in-law ?
Marriage ? '
said he . '
I do n't know what you are talking about !
I 've got no daughter-in-law , and nobody has been married lately , that I ever heard of . '
Now this was exactly what the landlady , who was very curious , wanted to find out ; but she put on a look of great alarm , and exclaimed : ` Oh , dear !
I hope I have not made mischief .
I had no idea -- or , of course , I would not have spoken -- but ' -- and here she stopped and fumbled with her apron , as if she was greatly embarrassed .
` As you have said so much you will have to say a little more , ' retorted the old man , a suspicion of what she meant darting across him ; and the woman , nothing loth , answered as before .
` Ah , it was not all for buying or selling that your handsome son has been coming to town every week these many months past .
And not by the shortest way , either !
No , it was over the river he rode , and across the hill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine-keeper , whose daughter , they say , is the prettiest girl in the whole country side , though she is too white for my taste , ' and then the landlady paused again , and glanced up at the farmer , to see how he was taking it .
She did not learn much .
He was looking straight before him , his teeth set .
But as she ceased to talk , he said quietly , ` Go on . '
` There is not much more to tell , ' replied the landlady , for she suddenly remembered that she must prepare supper for the hungry men who always stopped at the inn on market days , before starting for home , ` but one fine morning they both went to the little church on top of the hill , and were married .
My cousin is servant to the priest , and she found out about it and told me .
But good-day to you , sir ; here is your horse , and I must hurry off to the kitchen . '
It was lucky that the horse was sure-footed and knew the road , for his bridle hung loose on his neck , and his master took no heed of the way he was going .
When the farm-house was reached , the man led the animal to the stable , and then went to look for his son . '
I know everything -- you have deceived me .
Get out of my sight at once -- I have done with you , ' he stammered , choking with passion as he came up to the young man , who was cutting a stick in front of the door , whistling gaily the while .
` But , father -- ' ` You are no son of mine ; I have only one now .
Begone , or it will be the worse for you , ' and as he spoke he lifted up his whip .
The young man shrank back .
He feared lest his father should fall down in a fit , his face was so red and his eyes seemed bursting from his head .
But it was no use staying : perhaps next morning the old man might listen to reason , though in his heart the son felt that he would never take back his words .
So he turned slowly away , and walked heavily along a path which ended in a cave on the side of his hill , and there he sat through the night , thinking of what had happened .
Yes , he had been wrong , there was no doubt of that , and he did not quite know how it had come about .
He had meant to have told his father all about it , and he was sure , quite sure , that if once the old man had seen his wife , he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness .
But he had put it off from day to day , hoping always for a better opportunity , and now this was the end !
If the son had no sleep that night , no more had the father , and as soon as the sun rose , he sent a messenger into the great city with orders to bring back the younger brother .
When he arrived the farmer did not waste words , but informed him that he was now his only heir , and would inherit all his lands and money , and that he was to come and live at home , and to help manage the property .
Though very pleased at the thought of becoming such a rich man -- for the brothers had never cared much for each other -- the younger would rather have stayed where he was , for he soon got tired of the country , and longed for a town life .
However , this he kept to himself , and made the best of things , working hard like his brother before him .
In this way the years went on , but the crops were not so good as they had been , and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished , for it would take all the savings to complete them .
As to the elder son , he would never even hear his name mentioned , and died at last without ever seeing his face , leaving to the younger , as he had promised , all his lands , as well as his money .
Meanwhile , the son whom he had disinherited had grown poorer and poorer .
He and his wife were always looking out for something to do , and never spent a penny that they could help , but luck was against them , and at the time of his father 's death they had hardly bread to eat or clothes to cover them .
If there had been only himself , he would have managed to get on somehow , but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day , and swallowing his pride , at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living .
It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face , and they looked at each other in silence .
Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder , but winking them hastily away , he said : ` Brother , it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am ; you can see that for yourself .
I have not come to beg for money , but only to ask if you will give me those unfinished houses of yours in the city , and I will make them watertight , so that my wife and children can live in them , and that will save our rent .
For as they are , they profit you nothing . '
And the younger brother listened and pitied him , and gave him the houses that he asked for , and the elder went away happy .
For some years things went on as they were , and then the rich brother began to feel lonely , and thought to himself that he was getting older , and it was time for him to be married .
The wife he chose was very wealthy , but she was also very greedy , and however much she had , she always wanted more .
She was , besides , one of those unfortunate people who invariably fancy that the possessions of other people must be better than their own .
Many a time her poor husband regretted the day that he had first seen her , and often her meanness and shabby ways put him to shame .
But he had not the courage to rule her , and she only got worse and worse .
After she had been married a few months the bride wanted to go into the city and buy herself some new dresses .
She had never been there before , and when she had finished her shopping , she thought she would pay a visit to her unknown sister-in-law , and rest for a bit .
The house she was seeking was in a broad street , and ought to have been very magnificent , but the carved stone portico enclosed a mean little door of rough wood , while a row of beautiful pillars led to nothing .
The dwelling on each side were in the same unfinished condition , and water trickled down the walls .
Most people would have considered it a wretched place , and turned their backs on it as soon as they could , but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be , and she instantly resolved to get them for herself .
Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase , and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat , making clothes for her children .
The bride seemed full of interest in the houses , and asked a great many questions about them , so that her new relations liked her much better than they expected , and hoped they might be good friends .
However , as soon as she reached home , she went straight to her husband , and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother , as they would exactly suit her , and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king 's .
But her husband only told her that she might buy houses in some other part of the town , for she could not have those , as he had long since made a gift of them to his brother , who had lived there for many years past .
At this answer the wife grew very angry .
She began to cry , and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows , to see what was the matter .
` It was absurd , ' she sobbed out , ` quite unjust .
Indeed , if you came to think of it , the gift was worth nothing , as when her husband made it he was a bachelor , and since then he had been married , and she had never given her consent to any such thing . '
And so she lamented all day and all night , till the poor man was nearly worried to death ; and at last he did what she wished , and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which , he said , had only been lent to him .
But when the evidence on both sides had been heard , the judge decided in favour of the poor man , which made the rich lady more furious than ever , and she determined not to rest until she had gained the day .
If one judge would not give her the houses another should , and so time after time the case was tried over again , till at last it came before the highest judge of all , in the city of Evora .
Her husband was heartily tired and ashamed of the whole affair , but his weakness in not putting a stop to it in the beginning had got him into this difficulty , and now he was forced to go on .
On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city , the rich one on horseback , with plenty of food in his knapsack , the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way .
The road was hilly and neither could go very fast , and when night fell , they were both glad to see some lights in a window a little distance in front of them .
The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer , who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife 's birthday , and bade the rich man enter and sit down , while he himself took the horse to the stable .
The poor man asked timidly if he might spend the night in a corner , adding that he had brought his own supper with him .
Another time permission might have been refused him , for the farmer was no lover of humble folk , but now he gave the elder brother leave to come in , pointing out a wooden chair where he could sit .
Supper was soon served , and very glad the younger brother was to eat it , for his long ride had made him very hungry .
The farmer 's wife , however , would touch nothing , and at last declared that the only supper she wanted was one of the onions the poor man was cooking at the fire .
Of course he gave it to her , though he would gladly have eaten it himself , as three onions are not much at the end of a long day 's walk , and soon after they all went to sleep , the poor man making himself as comfortable as he could in his corner .
A few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of his wife .
` Oh , I feel so ill , I 'm sure I 'm going to die , ' wept she .
` It was that onion , I know it was .
I wish I had never eaten it .
It must have been poisoned . '
` If the man has poisoned you he shall pay for it , ' said her husband , and seizing a thick stick he ran downstairs and began to beat the poor man , who had been sound asleep , and had nothing to defend himself with .
Luckily , the noise aroused the younger brother , who jumped up and snatched the stick from the farmer 's hand , saying : ` We are both going to Evora to try a law-suit .
Come too , and accuse him there if he has attempted to rob you or murder you , but do n't kill him now , or you will get yourself into trouble . '
` Well , perhaps you are right , ' answered the farmer , ` but the sooner that fellow has his deserts , the better I shall be pleased , ' and without more words he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself and also the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man , while the poor brother , fearing more ill-treatment , started at once on foot .
Now all that night it had rained heavily , and did not seem likely to stop , and in some places the road was so thick with mud that it was almost impossible to get across it .
In one spot it was so very bad that a mule laden with baggage had got stuck in it , and tug as he might , his master was quite unable to pull him out .
The muleteer in despair appealed to the two horseman , who were carefully skirting the swamp at some distance off , but they paid no heed to his cries , and he began to talk cheerfully to his mule , hoping to keep up his spirits , declaring that if the poor beast would only have a little patience help was sure to come .
And so it did , for very soon the poor brother reached the place , bespattered with mud from head to foot , but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master .
First they set about finding some stout logs of wood to lay down on the marsh so that they could reach the mule , for by this time his frantic struggles had broken his bridle , and he was deeper in than ever .
Stepping cautiously along the wood , the poor man contrived to lay hold of the animal 's tale , and with a desperate effort the mule managed to regain his footing on dry ground , but at the cost of leaving his tail in the poor man 's hand .
When he saw this the muleteer 's anger knew no bounds , and forgetting that without the help given him he would have lost his mule altogether , he began to abuse the poor man , declaring that he had ruined his beast , and the law would make him pay for it .
Then , jumping on the back of the mule , which was so glad to be out of the choking mud that he did not seem to mind the loss of his tail , the ungrateful wretch rode on , and that evening reached the inn at Evora , where the rich man and the farmer had already arrived for the night .
Meanwhile the poor brother walked wearily along , wondering what other dreadful adventures were in store for him . '
I shall certainly be condemned for one or other of them , ' thought he sadly ; ` and after all , if I have to die , I would rather choose my own death than leave it to my enemies , ' and as soon as he entered Evora he looked about for a place suitable for carrying out the plan he had made .
At length he found what he sought , but as it was too late and too dark for him to make sure of success , he curled himself up under a doorway , and slept till morning .
Although it was winter , the sun rose in a clear sky , and its rays felt almost warm when the poor man got up and shook himself .
He intended it to be the day of his death , but in spite of that , and of the fact that he was leaving his wife and children behind him , he felt almost cheerful .
He had struggled so long , and was so very , very tired ; but he would not have minded that if he could have proved his innocence , and triumphed over his enemies .
However , they had all been too clever for him , and he had no strength to fight any more .
So he mounted the stone steps that led to the battlements of the city , and stopped for a moment to gaze about him .
It happened that an old sick man who lived near by had begged to be carried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall so that the beams of the rising sun might fall upon him , and he would be able to talk with his friends as they passed by to their work .
Little did he guess that on top of the battlements , exactly over his head , stood a man who was taking his last look at the same sun , before going to his death that awaited him .
But so it was ; and as the steeple opposite was touched by the golden light , the poor man shut his eyes and sprang forward .
The wall was high , and he flew rapidly through the air , but it was not the ground he touched , only the body of the sick man , who rolled over and died without a groan .
As for the other , he was quite unhurt , and was slowly rising to his feet when his arms were suddenly seized and held .
` You have killed our father , do you see ?
do you see ? '
cried two young men , ` and you will come with us this instant before the judge , and answer for it . '
` Your father ?
but I do n't know him .
What do you mean ? '
asked the poor man , who was quite bewildered with his sudden rush through the air , and could not think why he should be accused of this fresh crime .
But he got no reply , and was only hurried through the streets to the court-house , where his brother , the muleteer , and the farmer had just arrived , all as angry as ever , all talking at once , till the judge entered and ordered them to be silent . '
I will hear you one by one , ' he said , and motioned the younger brother to begin .
He did not take long to state his case .
The unfinished houses were his , left him with the rest of the property by his father , and his brother refused to give them up .
In answer , the poor man told , in a few words , how he had begged the houses from his brother , and produced the deed of gift which made him their owner .
The judge listened quietly and asked a few questions ; then he gave his verdict .
` The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given , and to whom they belong .
And as you , ' he added , turning to the younger brother , ` brought this accusation knowing full well it was wicked and unjust , I order you , besides losing the houses , to pay a thousand pounds damages to your brother . '
The rich man heard the judge with rage in his heart , the poor man with surprise and gratitude .
But he was not safe yet , for now it was the turn of the farmer .
The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story , and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house , and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see .
Then the poor man told his tale , and once more judgment was given in his favour , while twelve hundred pounds was ordered to be paid him .
As for the muleteer , he was informed very plainly that he had proved himself mean and ungrateful for the help that had been given him , and as a punishment he must pay to the poor man a fine of fifty pounds , and hand him over the mule till his tail had grown again .
Lastly , there came the two sons of the sick man .
` This is the wretch who killed our father , ' they said , ` and we demand that he should die also . '
` How did you kill him ? '
asked the judge , turning to the accused , and the poor man told how he had leaped from the wall , not knowing that anyone was beneath .
` Well , this is my judgment , ' replied the judge , when they had all spoken : ` Let the accused sit under the wall , and let the sons of the dead man jump from the top and fall on him and kill him , and if they will not to this , then they are condemned to pay eight hundred pounds for their false accusation . '
The young men looked at each other , and slowly shook their heads .
` We will pay the fine , ' said they , and the judge nodded .
So the poor man rode the mule home , and brought back to his family enough money to keep them in comfort to the end of their days .
Adapted from the Portuguese .
The One-Handed Girl An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees , and they had one son and one daughter .
They were all very happy together for many years , and then the father became very ill , and felt he was going to die .
He called his children to the place where he lay on the floor -- for no one had any beds in that country -- and said to his son , ' I have no herds of cattle to leave you -- only the few things there are in the house -- for I am a poor man , as you know .
But choose : will you have my blessing or my property ? '
` Your property , certainly , ' answered the son , and his father nodded .
` And you ? '
asked the old man of the girl , who stood by her brother . '
I will have blessing , ' she answered , and her father gave her much blessing .
That night he died , and his wife and son and daughter mourned for him seven days , and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people .
But hardly was the time of mourning over , than the mother was attacked by a disease which was common in that country . '
I am going away from you , ' she said to her children , in a faint voice ; ` but first , my son , choose which you will have : blessing or property . '
` Property , certainly , ' answered the son .
` And you , my daughter ? ' '
I will have blessing , ' said the girl ; and her mother gave her much blessing , and that night she died .
When the days of mourning were ended , the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother .
So the girl put them out , and he took them away , save only a small pot and a vessel in which she could clean her corn .
But she had no corn to clean .
She sat at home , sad and hungry , when a neighbour knocked at the door .
` My pot has cracked in the fire , lend me yours to cook my supper in , and I will give you a handful of corn in return . '
And the girl was glad , and that night she was able to have supper herself , and next day another woman borrowed her pot , and then another and another , for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time .
She soon grew quite fat with all the corn she earned with the help of her pot , and then one evening she picked up a pumpkin seed in a corner , and planted it near her well , and it sprang up , and gave her many pumpkins .
At last it happened that a youth from her village passed through the place where the girl 's brother was , and the two met and talked .
` What news is there of my sister ? '
asked the young man , with whom things had gone badly , for he was idle .
` She is fat and well-liking , ' replied the youth , ` for the women borrow her mortar to clean their corn , and borrow her pot to cook it in , and for al this they give her more food than she can eat . '
And he went his way .
Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man , and he set out at once , and before dawn he had reached the hut , and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside .
He slung them over his shoulders and departed , pleased with his own cleverness ; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast , she could find it nowhere .
At length she said to herself , ` Well , some thief must have stolen them while I slept .
I will go and see if any of my pumpkins are ripe . '
And indeed they were , and so many that the tree was almost broken by the weight of them .
So she ate what she wanted and took the others to the village , and gave them in exchange for corn , and the women said that no pumpkins were as sweet as these , and that she was to bring every day all that she had .
In this way she earned more than she needed for herself , and soon was able to get another mortar and cooking pot in exchange for her corn .
Then she thought she was quite rich .
Unluckily someone else thought so too , and this was her brother 's wife , who had heard all about the pumpkin tree , and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin .
At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any ; but when she found that he belonged to her brother , she changed her mind , and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there .
` Take this one , ' she said to the slave , ` and carry it back to your mistress , but tell her to keep the corn , as the pumpkin is a gift . '
The brother 's wife was overjoyed at the sight of the fruit , and when she tasted it , she declared it was the nicest she had ever eaten .
Indeed , all night she thought of nothing else , and early in the morning she called another slave -LRB- for she was a rich woman -RRB- and bade him go and ask for another pumpkin .
But the girl , who had just been out to look at her tree , told him that they were all eaten , so he went back empty-handed to his mistress .
In the evening her husband returned from hunting a long way off , and found his wife in tears .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he . '
I sent a slave with some grain to your sister to buy some pumpkins , but she would not sell me any , and told me there were none , though I know she lets other people buy them . '
` Well , never mind now -- go to sleep , ' said he , ` and to-morrow I will go and pull up the pumpkin tree , and that will punish her for treating you so badly . '
So before sunrise he got up and set out for his sister 's house , and found her cleaning some corn .
` Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one ? '
he asked .
` The old ones are finished , and the new ones are not yet come , ' answered the girl .
` When her slave arrived two days ago , there were only four left ; but I gave him one , and would take no corn for it . ' '
I do not believe you ; you have sold them all to other people .
I shall go and cut down the pumpkin , ' cried her brother in a rage .
` If you cut down the pumpkin you shall cut off my hand with it , ' exclaimed the girl , running up to her tree and catching hold of it .
But her brother followed , and with one blow cut off the pumpkin and her hand too .
Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find , and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it , and his sister had no home to go to .
Meanwhile she had bathed her arm carefully , and bound on it some healing leaves that grew near by , and wrapped a cloth round the leaves , and went to hide in the forest , that her brother might not find her again .
For seven days she wandered about , eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her , and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches , so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her .
When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest .
The sight of the huts made her feel more lonely and helpless than before .
She longed desperately for a draught of milk from a gourd , for there were no streams in that part , and she was very thirsty , but how was she to earn anything with only one hand ?
And at this thought her courage failed , and she began to cry bitterly .
It happened that the king 's son had come out from the town very early to shoot birds , and when the sun grew hot he left tired . '
I will lie here and rest under this tree , ' he said to his attendants .
` You can go and shoot instead , and I will just have this slave to stay with me ! '
Away they went , and the young man fell asleep , and slept long .
Suddenly he was awakened by something wet and salt falling on his face .
` What is that ?
Is it raining ? '
he said to his slave .
` Go and look . '
` No , master , it is not raining , ' answered the slave .
` Then climb up the tree and see what it is , ' and the slave climbed up , and came back and told his master that a beautiful girl was sitting up there , and that it must have been her tears which had fallen on the face of the king 's son .
` Why was she crying ? '
inquired the prince . '
I can not tell -- I did not dare to ask her ; but perhaps she would tell you . '
And the master , greatly wondering , climbed up the tree .
` What is the matter with you ? '
said he gently , and , as she only sobbed louder , he continued : ` Are you a woman , or a spirit of the woods ? ' '
I am a woman , ' she answered slowly , wiping her eyes with a leaf of the creeper that hung about her .
` Then why do you cry ? '
he persisted . '
I have many things to cry for , ' she replied , ` more than you could ever guess . '
` Come home with me , ' said the prince ; ` it is not very far .
Come home to my father and mother .
I am a king 's son . '
` Then why are you here ? '
she said , opening her eyes and staring at him .
` Once every month I and my friends shoot birds in the forest , ' he answered , ` but I was tired and bade them leave me to rest .
And you -- what are you doing up in this tree ? '
At that she began to cry again , and told the king 's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother . '
I can not come down with you , for I do not like anyone to see me , ' she ended with a sob .
` Oh !
I will manage all that , ' said the king 's son , and swinging himself to a lower branch , he bade his slave go quickly into the town , and bring back with him four strong men and a curtained litter .
When the man was gone , the girl climbed down , and hid herself on the ground in some bushes .
Very soon the slave returned with the litter , which was placed on the ground close to the bushes where the girl lay .
` Now go , all of you , and call my attendants , for I do not wish to say here any longer , ' he said to the men , and as soon as they were out of sight he bade the girl get into the litter , and fasten the curtains tightly .
Then he got in on the other side , and waited till his attendants came up .
` What is the matter , O son of a king ? '
asked they , breathless with running . '
I think I am ill ; I am cold , ' he said , and signing to the bearers , he drew the curtains , and was carried through the forest right inside his own house .
` Tell my father and mother that I have a fever , and want some gruel , ' said he , ` and bid them send it quickly . '
So the slave hastened to the king 's palace and gave his message , which troubled both the king and the queen greatly .
A pot of hot gruel was instantly prepared , and carried over to the sick man , and as soon as the council which was sitting was over , the king and his ministers went to pay him a visit , bearing a message from the queen that she would follow a little later .
Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent 's hearts , and the next day he declared he felt better , and , getting into his litter , was carried to the palace in state , drums being beaten all along the road .
He dismounted at the foot of the steps and walked up , a great parasol being held over his head by a slave .
Then he entered the cool , dark room where his father and mother were sitting , and said to them : ' I saw a girl yesterday in the forest whom I wish to marry , and , unknown to my attendants , I brought her back to my house in a litter .
Give me your consent , I beg , for no other woman pleases me as well , even though she has but one hand ! '
Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands , and one who could have brought riches with her , but they could not bear to say ` No ' to their son , so they told him it should be as he chose , and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately .
The girl could scarcely believe her good fortune , and , in gratitude for all the kindness shown her , was so useful and pleasant to her husband 's parents that they soon loved her .
By and bye a baby was born to her , and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom , and to set right things that had gone wrong .
No sooner had he started than the girl 's brother , who had wasted all the riches his wife had brought him in recklessness and folly , and was now very poor , chanced to come into the town , and as he passed he heard a man say , ` Do you know that the king 's son has married a woman who has lost one of her hands ? '
On hearing these words the brother stopped and asked , ` Where did he find such a woman ? '
` In the forest , ' answered the man , and the cruel brother guessed at once it must be his sister .
A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself , and he vowed that he would work her ill .
Therefore that very afternoon he made his way to the palace and asked to see the king .
When he was admitted to his presence , he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead , and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come .
` By the kindness of your heart have you been deceived , O king , ' said he .
` Your son has married a girl who has lost a hand .
Do you know why she had lost it ?
She was a witch , and has wedded three husbands , and each husband she has put to death with her arts .
Then the people of the town cut off her hand , and turned her into the forest .
And what I say is true , for her town is my town also . '
The king listened , and his face grew dark .
Unluckily he had a hasty temper , and did not stop to reason , and , instead of sending to the town , and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been , he believed all the brother 's lying words , and made the queen believe them too .
Together they took counsel what they should do , and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town .
But this did not content the brother .
` Kill her , ' he said .
` It is no more than she deserves for daring to marry the king 's son .
Then she can do no more hurt to anyone . '
` We can not kill her , ' answered they ; ` if we did , our son would assuredly kill us .
Let us do as the others did , and put her out of the town .
And with this the envious brother was forced to be content .
The poor girl loved her husband very much , but just then the baby was more to her than all else in the world , and as long as she had him with her , she did not very much mind anything .
So , taking her son on her arm , and hanging a little earthen pot for cooking round her neck , she left her house with its great peacock fans and slaves and seats of ivory , and plunged into the forest .
For a while she walked , not knowing whither she went , then by and bye she grew tired , and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep .
Suddenly she raised her eyes , and saw a snake wriggling from under the bushes towards her . '
I am a dead woman , ' she said to herself , and stayed quite still , for indeed she was too frightened to move .
In another minute the snake had reached her side , and to her surprise he spoke .
` Open your earthen pot , and let me go in .
Save me from sun , and I will save you from rain , ' and she opened the pot , and when the snake had slipped in , she put on the cover .
Soon she beheld another snake coming after the other one , and when it had reached her it stopped and said , ` Did you see a small grey snake pass this way just now ? '
` Yes , ' she answered , ` it was going very quickly . '
` Ah , I must hurry and catch it up , ' replied the second snake , and it hastened on .
When it was out of sight , a voice from the pot said : ` Uncover me , ' and she lifted the lid , and the little grey snake slid rapidly to the ground . '
I am safe now , ' he said .
` But tell me , where are you going ? ' '
I can not tell you , for I do not know , ' she answered . '
I am just wandering in the wood . '
` Follow me , and let us go home together , ' said the snake , and the girl followed his through the forest and along the green paths , till they came to a great lake , where they stopped to rest .
` The sun is hot , ' said the snake , ` and you have walked far .
Take your baby and bathe in that cool place where the boughs of the tree stretch far over the water . '
` Yes , I will , ' answered she , and they went in .
The baby splashed and crowed with delight , and then he gave a spring and fell right in , down , down , down , and his mother could not find him , though she searched all among the reeds .
Full of terror , she made her way back to the bank , and called to the snake , ` My baby is gone !
-- he is drowned , and never shall I see him again . '
` Go in once more , ' said the snake , ` and feel everywhere , even among the trees that have their roots in the water , lest perhaps he may be held fast there . '
Swiftly she went back and felt everywhere with her whole hand , even putting her fingers into the tiniest crannies , where a crab could hardly have taken shelter .
` No , he is not here , ' she cried .
` How am I to live without him ? '
But the snake took no notice , and only answered , ` Put in your other arm too . '
` What is the use of that ? '
she asked , ` when it has no hand to feel with ? '
but all the same she did as she was bid , and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft , lying between two stones in a clump of reeds .
` My baby , my baby ! '
she shouted , and lifted him up , merry and laughing , and not a bit hurt or frightened .
` Have you found him this time ? '
asked the snake .
` Yes , oh , yes ! '
she answered , ` and , why -- why -- I have got my hand back again ! '
and from sheer joy she burst into tears .
The snake let her weep for a little while , and then he said -- ` Now we will journey on to my family , and we will all repay you for the kindness you showed to me . '
` You have done more than enough in giving me back my hand , ' replied the girl ; but the snake only smiled .
` Be quick , lest the sun should set , ' he answered , and began to wriggle along so fast that the girl could hardly follow him .
By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived , when he was not travelling with his father and mother .
And he told them all his adventures , and how he had escaped from his enemy .
The father and mother snake could not do enough to show their gratitude .
They made their guest lie down on a hammock woven of the strong creepers which hung from bough to bough , till she was quite rested after her wanderings , while they watched the baby and gave him milk to drink from the cocoa-nuts which they persuaded their friends the monkeys to crack for them .
They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby 's mother , who felt at last that she was safe and at peace .
Not that she forgot her husband , for she often thought of him and longed to show him her son , and in the night she would sometimes lie awake and wonder where he was .
In this manner many weeks passed by .
And what was the prince doing ?
Well , he had fallen very ill when he was on the furthest border of the kingdom , and he was nursed by some kind people who did not know who he was , so that the king and queen heard nothing about him .
When he was better he made his way home again , and into his father 's palace , where he found a strange man standing behind the throne with the peacock 's feathers .
This was his wife 's brother , whom the king had taken into high favour , though , of course , the prince was quite ignorant of what had happened .
For a moment the king and queen stared at their son , as if he had been unknown to them ; he had grown so thin and weak during his illness that his shoulders were bowed like those of an old man .
` Have you forgotten me so soon ? '
he asked .
At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him , and poured out questions as to what had happened , and why he looked like that .
But the prince did not answer any of them .
` How is my wife ? '
he said .
There was a pause .
Then the queen replied : ` She is dead . '
` Dead ! '
he repeated , stepping a little backwards .
` And my child ? '
` He is dead too . '
The young man stood silent .
Then he said , ` Show me their graves . '
At these words the king , who had been feeling rather uncomfortable , took heart again , for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see , so that he might never , never guess what had been done to his wife ?
All these months the king and queen had been telling each other how good and merciful they had been not to take her brother 's advice and to put her to death .
But now , this somehow did not seem so certain .
Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace , and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees .
The prince advanced alone , and , resting his head against the stone , he burst into tears .
His father and mother stood silently behind with a curious pang in their souls which they did not quite understand .
Could it be that they were ashamed of themselves ?
But after a while the prince turned round , and walking past them in to the palace he bade the slaves bring him mourning .
For seven days no one saw him , but at the end of them he went out hunting , and helped his father rule his people .
Only no one dared to speak to him of his wife and son .
At last one morning , after the girl had been lying awake all night thinking of her husband , she said to her friend the snake : ` You have all shown me much kindness , but now I am well again , and want to go home and hear some news of my husband , and if he still mourns for me ! '
Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words , but he only said : ` Yes , thus it must be ; go and bid farewell to my father and mother , but if they offer you a present , see that you take nothing but my father 's ring and my mother 's casket . '
So she went to the parent snakes , who wept bitterly at the thought of losing her , and offered her gold and jewels as much as she could carry in remembrance of them .
But the girl shook her head and pushed the shining heap away from her . '
I shall never forget you , never , ' she said in a broken voice , ` but the only tokens I will accept from you are that little ring and this old casket . '
The two snakes looked at each other in dismay .
The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have .
Then after a short pause they spoke .
` Why do you want the ring and casket so much ?
Who has told you of them ? '
` Oh , nobody ; it is just my fancy , ' answered she .
But the old snakes shook their heads and replied : ` Not so ; it is our son who told you , and , as he said , so it must be .
If you need food , or clothes , or a house , tell the ring and it will find them for you .
And if you are unhappy or in danger , tell the casket and it will set things right . '
Then they both gave her their blessing , and she picked up her baby and went her way .
She walked for a long time , till at length she came near the town where her husband and his father dwelt .
Here she stopped under a grove of palm trees , and told the ring that she wanted a house .
` It is ready , mistress , ' whispered a queer little voice which made her jump , and , looking behind her , she saw a lovely palace made of the finest woods , and a row of slaves with tall fans bowing before the door .
Glad indeed was she to enter , for she was very tired , and , after eating a good supper of fruit and milk which she found in one of the rooms , she flung herself down on a pile of cushions and went to sleep with her baby beside her .
Here she stayed quietly , and every day the baby grew taller and stronger , and very soon he could run about and even talk .
Of course the neighbours had a great deal to say about the house which had been built so quickly -- so very quickly -- on the outskirts of the town , and invented all kinds of stories about the rich lady who lived in it .
And by and bye , when the king returned with his son from the wars , some of these tales reached his ears .
` It is really very odd about that house under the palms , ' he said to the queen ; ' I must find out something of the lady whom no one ever sees .
I daresay it is not a lady at all , but a gang of conspirators who want to get possession of my throne .
To-morrow I shall take my son and my chief ministers and insist on getting inside . '
Soon after sunrise next day the prince 's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house , when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town .
A moment afterwards she heard faintly the roll of the drums that announced the king 's presence , and saw a crowd of people approaching the grove of palms .
Her heart beat fast .
Could her husband be among them ?
In any case they must not discover her there ; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them , she ran inside , and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face .
Then , taking the child 's hand , she went to the door and waited .
In a few minutes the whole procession came up , and she stepped forward and begged them to come in and rest .
` Willingly , ' answered the king ; ` go first , and we will follow you . '
They followed her into a long dark room , in which was a table covered with gold cups and baskets filled with dates and cocoa-nuts and all kinds of ripe yellow fruits , and the king and the prince sat upon cushions and were served by slaves , while the ministers , among whom she recognised her own brother , stood behind .
` Ah , I owe all my misery to him , ' she said to herself .
` From the first he has hated me , ' but outwardly she showed nothing .
And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered : ` You have ridden far ; eat first , and drink , for you must be hungry and thirsty , and then I will tell you my news . '
` You speak sense , ' answered the king , and silence prevailed for some time longer .
Then he said : ` Now , lady , I have finished , and am refreshed , therefore tell me , I pray you , who you are , and whence you come ?
But , first , be seated . '
She bowed her head and sat down on a big scarlet cushion , drawing her little boy , who was asleep in a corner , on to her knee , and began to tell the story of her life .
As her brother listened , he would fain have left the house and hidden himself in the forest , but it was his duty to wave the fan of peacock 's feathers over the king 's head to keep off the flies , and he knew he would be seized by the royal guards if he tried to desert his post .
He must stay where he was , there was no help for it , and luckily for him the king was too much interested in the tale to notice that the fan had ceased moving , and that flies were dancing right on the top of his thick curly hair .
The story went on , but the story-teller never once looked at the prince , even through her veil , though he on his side never moved his eyes from her .
When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree , the king 's son could restrain himself no longer .
` It is my wife , ' he cried , springing to where she sat with the sleeping child in her lap .
` They have lied to me , and you are not dead after all , nor the boy either !
But what has happened ?
Why did they lie to me ?
and why did you leave my house where you were safe ? '
And he turned and looked fiercely at his father .
` Let me finish my tale first , and then you will know , ' answered she , throwing back her veil , and she told how her brother had come to the palace and accused her of being a witch , and had tried to persuade the king to slay her .
` But he would not do that , ' she continued softly , ` and after all , if I had stayed on in your house , I should never have met the snake , nor have got my hand back again .
So let us forget all about it , and be happy once more , for see !
our son is growing quite a big boy . '
` And what shall be done to your brother ? '
asked the king , who was glad to think that someone had acted in this matter worse than himself .
` Put him out of the town , ' answered she .
From ` Swaheli Tales , ' by E. Steere .
The Bones of Djulung In a beautiful island that lies in the southern seas , where chains of gay orchids bind the trees together , and the days and nights are equally long and nearly equally hot , there once lived a family of seven sisters .
Their father and mother were dead , and they had no brothers , so the eldest girl ruled over the rest , and they all did as she bade them .
One sister had to clean the house , a second carried water from the spring in the forest , a third cooked their food , while to the youngest fell the hardest task of all , for she had to cut and bring home the wood which was to keep the fire continually burning .
This was very hot and tiring work , and when she had fed the fire and heaped up in a corner the sticks that were to supply it till the next day , she often threw herself down under a tree , and went sound asleep .
One morning , however , as she was staggering along with her bundle on her back , she thought that the river which flowed past their hut looked so cool and inviting that she determined to bathe in it , instead of taking her usual nap .
Hastily piling up her load by the fire , and thrusting some sticks into the flame , she ran down to the river and jumped in .
How delicious it was diving and swimming and floating in the dark forest , where the trees were so thick that you could hardly see the sun !
But after a while she began to look about her , and her eyes fell on a little fish that seemed made out of a rainbow , so brilliant were the colours he flashed out . '
I should like him for a pet , ' thought the girl , and the next time the fish swam by , she put out her hand and caught him .
Then she ran along the grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin .
Here she put her little fish , whose name was Djulung-djulung , and promising to return soon and bring him some dinner , she went away .
By the time she got home , the rice for their dinner was ready cooked , and the eldest sister gave the other six their portions in wooden bowls .
But the youngest did not finish hers , and when no one was looking , stole off to the fountain in the forest where the little fish was swimming about .
` See !
I have not forgotten you , ' she cried , and one by one she let the grains of rice fall into the water , where the fish gobbled them up greedily , for he had never tasted anything so nice .
` That is all for to-day , ' she said at last , ` but I will come again to-morrow , ' and biding him good-bye she went down the path .
Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish , but every day she saved half of her rice to give him , and called him softly in a little song she had made for herself .
If she sometimes felt hungry , no one knew of it , and , indeed , she did not mind that much , when she saw how the fish enjoyed it .
And the fish grew fat and big , but the girl grew thin and weak , and the loads of wood felt heavier every day , and at last her sisters noticed it .
Then they took counsel together , and watched her to see what she did , and one of them followed her to the fountain where Djulung lived , and saw her give him all the rice she had saved from her breakfast .
Hastening home the sister told the others what she had witnessed , and that a lovely fat fish might be had for the catching .
So the eldest sister went and caught him , and he was boiled for supper , but the youngest sister was away in the woods , and did not know anything about it .
Next morning she went as usual to the cave , and sang her little song , but no Djulung came to answer it ; twice and thrice she sang , then threw herself on her knees by the edge , and peered into the dark water , but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it .
` Djulung can not be dead , or his body would be floating on the surface , ' she said to herself , and rising to her feet she set out homewards , feeling all of a sudden strangely tired .
