` You 're sure , a n't you , mother ? '
` Yes , sure . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Harry dropped his little weary head upon her shoulder , and was soon fast asleep .
Eliza walked on and on , never resting , all through the night .
When the sun rose , she was many miles away from her old home .
Still she walked on , only stopping , in the middle of the day , to buy a little dinner for herself and Harry at a farm-house .
At last , when it was nearly dark , she arrived at a village , on the banks of the river Ohio .
If she could only get across that river , Eliza felt she would be safe .
She went to a little inn on the bank , where a kind-looking woman was busy cooking supper .
` Is there a boat that takes people across the river now ? '
she asked .
` No , indeed , ' replied the woman .
` The boats has stopped running .
It is n't safe , there be too many blocks of ice floating about . '
Eliza looked so sad and disappointed when she heard this , that the good woman was sorry for her .
Harry too was so tired , that he began to cry .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Here , take him into this room , ' said the woman , opening the door into a small bed-room .
Eliza laid her tired little boy upon the bed , and he soon fell fast asleep .
But for her there was no rest .
She stood at the window , watching the river with its great floating blocks of ice , wondering how she could cross it .
As she stood there she heard a shout .
Looking up she saw Sam .
She drew back just in time , for Haley and Andy were riding only a yard or two behind him .
It was a dreadful moment for Eliza .
Her room opened by a side door to the river .
She seized her child and sprang down the steps towards it .
Haley caught sight of her as she disappeared down the bank .
Throwing himself from his horse , and calling loudly to Sam and Andy , he was after her in a moment .
In that terrible moment her feet scarcely seemed to touch the ground .
The next , she was at the water 's edge .
On they came behind her .
With one wild cry and flying leap , she jumped right over the water by the shore , on to the raft of ice beyond .
It was a desperate leap .
Haley , Sam , and Andy cried out , and lifted up their hands in astonishment .
The great piece of ice pitched and creaked as her weight came upon it .
But she stayed there not a moment .
With wild cries she leaped to another and still another -- stumbling -- leaping -- slipping -- springing up again !
Her shoes were gone , her stockings cut from her feet by the sharp edges of the ice .
Blood marked every step .
But she knew nothing , felt nothing , till dimly , as in a dream , she saw the Ohio side , and a man helping her up the bank .
` Yer a brave gal , now , whoever ye are ! '
said the man .
` Oh , save me -- do save me -- do hide me , ' she cried .
` Why , what 's the matter ? '
asked the man .
` My child !
this boy -- mas ' r sold him .
There 's his new mas ` r , ' she said , pointing to the other shore .
` Oh , save me . '
` Yer a right brave gal , ' said the man .
` Go there , ' pointing to a big white house close by .
` They are kind folks ; they 'll help you . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' said Eliza , as she walked quickly away .
The man stood and looked after her wonderingly .
On the other side of the river Haley was standing perfectly amazed at the scene .
When Eliza disappeared over the bank he turned and looked at Sam and Andy , with terrible anger in his eyes .
But Sam and Andy were glad , oh , so glad , that Eliza had escaped .
They were so glad that they laughed till the tears rolled down their cheeks .
` I 'll make ye laugh , ' said Haley , laying about their heads with his riding whip .
They ducked their heads , ran shouting up the bank , and were on their horses before he could reach them .
` Good evening , mas ` r , ' said Sam . '
I berry much ` spect missis be anxious ` bout us .
Mas ' r Haley wo n't want us no longer . '
Then off they went as fast as their horses could gallop .
It was late at night before they reached home again , but Mrs. Shelby was waiting for them .
As soon as she heard the horses galloping up she ran out to the balcony .
` Is that you , Sam ? '
she called .
` Where are they ? '
` Mas ' r Haley 's a-restin ' at the tavern .
He 's drefful fatigued , missis . '
` And Eliza , Sam ? '
` Come up here , Sam , ' called Mr. Shelby , who had followed his wife , ` and tell your mistress what she wants to know . '
So Sam went up and told the wonderful story of how Eliza had crossed the river on the floating ice .
Mr. and Mrs. Shelby found it hard to believe that such a thing was possible .
Mrs. Shelby was very , very glad that Eliza had escaped .
She told Aunt Chloe to give Sam and Andy a specially good supper .
Then they went to bed quite pleased with their day 's work .
CHAPTER V ELIZA FINDS A REFUGE A lady and gentleman were sitting talking happily together in the drawing-room of the white house to which Eliza had gone .
Suddenly their old black man-of-all-work put his head in at the door and said , ` Will missis come into the kitchen ? '
The lady went .
Presently she called to her husband , ' I do wish you would come here a moment . '
He rose and went into the kitchen .
There lay Eliza on two kitchen chairs .
Her poor feet were all cut and bleeding , and she had fainted quite away .
The master of the house drew his breath short , and stood silent .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- His wife and the cook were trying to bring Eliza round .
The old man had Harry on his knee , and was busy pulling off his shoes and stockings , to warm the little cold feet .
` Poor creature , ' said the lady .
Suddenly Eliza opened her eyes .
A dreadful look of pain came into her face .
She sprang up saying , ` Oh , my Harry , have they got him ? '
As soon as he heard her voice , Harry jumped from the old man 's knee , and running to her side , put up his arms .
` Oh , he 's here !
he 's here , ' she said , kissing him .
` Oh , ma'am , ' she went , on turning wildly to the lady of the house , ` do protect us , do n't let them get him . '
` Nobody shall hurt you here , poor woman , ' said the lady .
` You are safe ; do n't be afraid . '
` God bless you , ' said Eliza , covering her face and sobbing , while Harry , seeing her crying , tried to get into her lap to comfort her .
` You need n't be afraid of anything ; we are friends here , poor woman .
Tell me where you come from and what you want , ' said the lady . '
I came from the other side of the river , ' said Eliza .
` When ? '
said the gentleman , very much astonished .
` To-night . '
` How did you come ? ' '
I crossed on the ice . '
` Crossed on the ice ! '
exclaimed every one .
` Yes , ' said Eliza slowly , ' I did .
God helped me , and I crossed on the ice .
They were close behind me -- right behind , and there was no other way . '
` Law , missis , ' said the old servant , ` the ice is all in broken up blocks , a-swinging up and down in the water . ' '
I know it is .
I know it , ' said Eliza wildly .
` But I did it .
I would ` nt have thought I could -- I did n't think I could get over , but I did n't care .
I could but die if I did n't .
And God helped me . '
` Were you a slave ? '
said the gentleman .
` Yes , sir . '
` Was your master unkind to you ? '
` No , sir . '
` Was your mistress unkind to you ? '
` No , sir -- no .
My mistress was always good to me . '
` What could make you leave a good home , then , and run away , and go through such danger ? '
` They wanted to take my boy away from me -- to sell him -- to sell him down south , ma'am .
To go all alone -- a baby that had never been away from his mother in his life .
I could n't bear it .
I took him , and ran away in the night .
They chased me , they were coming down close behind me , and I heard 'em .
I jumped right on to the ice .
How I got across I do n't know .
The first I knew , a man was helping me up the bank . '
It was such a sad story , that the tears came into the eyes of everyone who heard her tell it .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Where do you mean to go to , poor woman ? '
asked the lady .
` To Canada , if I only knew where that was .
Is it very far off , is Canada ' ?
said Eliza , looking up in a simple , trusting way , to the kind lady 's face .
` Poor woman , ' said she again .
` Is it a great way off ? '
asked Eliza .
` Yes , ' said the lady of the house sadly , ` it is far away .
But we will try to help you to get there . '
Eliza wanted to go to Canada , because it belonged to the British .
They did not allow any one to be made a slave there .
George , too , was going to try to reach Canada .
` Wife , ' said the gentleman , when they had gone back again into their own sitting-room , ` we must get that poor woman away to-night .
She is not safe here .
I know some good people , far in the country , who will take care of her . '
So this kind gentleman got the carriage ready , and drove Eliza and her boy a long , long way , through the dark night , to a cottage far in the country .
There he left her with a good man and his wife , who promised to be kind to her , and help her to go to Canada .
He gave some money to the good man too , and told him to use it for Eliza .
CHAPTER VI UNCLE TOM SAYS GOOD-BYE The day after the hunt for Eliza was a very sad one in Uncle Tom 's cabin .
It was the day on which Haley was going to take Uncle Tom away .
Aunt Chloe had been up very early .
She had washed and ironed all Tom 's clothes , and packed his trunk neatly .
Now she was cooking the breakfast , -- the last breakfast she would ever cook for her dear husband .
Her eyes were quite red and swollen with crying , and the tears kept running down her cheeks all the time .
` It 's the last time , ' said Tom sadly .
Aunt Chloe could not answer .
She sat down , buried her face in her hands , and sobbed aloud .
'S ` pose we must be resigned .
But , O Lord , how can I ?
If I knew anything where you was goin ' , or how they 'd treat you !
Missis says she 'll try and buy you back again in a year or two .
But , Lor ' , nobody never comes back that goes down there . '
` There 'll be the same God there , Chloe , that there is here . '
` Well , ' said Aunt Chloe , 's ` pose dere will .
But the Lord lets drefful things happen sometimes .
I do n't seem to get no comfort dat way . '
` Let 's think on our mercies , ' said Tom , in a shaking voice .
` Mercies ! '
said Aunt Chloe , ` do n't see any mercies in ` t .
It is n't right !
it is n't right it should be so !
Mas ' r never ought to have left it so that ye could be took for his debts .
Mebbe he ca n't help himself now , but I feel it 's wrong .
Nothing can beat that out of me .
Such a faithful crittur as ye 've been , reckonin ' on him more than your own wife and chil ` en . '
` Chloe !
now , if ye love me , you wo n't talk so , when it is perhaps jest the last time we 'll ever have together , ' said Tom .
` Wall , anyway , there 's wrong about it somewhere , ' said Aunt Chloe , ' I ca n't jest make out where 't is .
But there is wrong somewhere , I 'm sure of that . '
Neither Tom nor Chloe could eat any breakfast ; their hearts were too full of sorrow .
But the little children , who hardly understood what was happening , enjoyed theirs .
It was not often that they had such a fine one as Chloe had cooked for Tom 's last morning at home .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Breakfast was just finished , when Mrs. Shelby came .
Chloe was not very pleased to see her .
She was angry , and blamed her for letting Tom be sold .
But Mrs. Shelby did not seem to see Aunt Chloe 's angry looks .
` Tom , ' she said , turning to him , ' I come to -- ' she could say no more , she was crying so bitterly .
Then all Aunt Chloe 's anger faded away .
` Lor ' , now missis , do n't - do n't , ' she said .
She too burst out crying again , and for a few minutes they all sobbed together .
` Tom , ' said Mrs. Shelby at last , ' I ca n't do anything for you now .
But I promise you , most solemnly , to save as much , money as I can .
As soon as I have enough , I will buy you back again . '
Just then Haley arrived .
Tom said a last sad good-bye to his wife and children , and got into the cart , which Haley had brought with him .
As soon as Tom was seated in the cart , Haley took a heavy chain , and fastened it round his ankles .
Poor Tom had done nothing wrong , yet he was treated worse than a thief , just because he was a slave .
` You do n't need to do that , ' said Mrs. Shelby , ` Tom wo n't run away . '
` Do n't know so much about that , ma'am ; I 've lost one already .
I ca n't afford to run any more risks , ' replied Haley .
` Please give my love to Mas ' r George , ' said Tom , looking round sadly .
` Tell him how sorry I am he is not at home to say good-bye . '
Master George was Mr. and Mrs. Shelby 's son .
He was very fond of Tom , and was teaching him to write .
He often used to come and have tea in Uncle Tom 's little cottage .
Aunt Chloe used to make her very nicest cakes when Mas ' r George came to tea .
But he was not at home now , and did not know that Tom had been sold .
Haley whipped up the horse , and , with a last sad look at the old place , Tom was whirled away to a town called Washington .
CHAPTER VII UNCLE TOM MEETS EVA Haley stayed in Washington several days .
He went to market each day and bought more slaves .
He put heavy chains on their hands and feet , and sent them to prison along with Tom .
When he had bought all the slaves he wanted , and was ready to go , he drove them before him , like a herd of cattle , on to a boat which was going south .
It was a beautiful boat .
The deck was gay with lovely ladies and fine gentlemen walking about enjoying the bright spring sunshine .
Down on the lower deck , in the dark , among the luggage , were crowded Tom and the other poor slaves .
Some of the ladies and gentlemen on board were very sorry for the poor niggers , and pitied them .
Others never thought about them at all , or if they did , thought it was quite just and proper that they should be treated badly .
` They are only slaves , ' they said .
Among the passengers was a pretty little girl , about six years old .
She had beautiful golden hair , and big blue eyes .
She ran about here , there , and everywhere , dancing and laughing like a little fairy .
There were other children on board , but not one so pretty or so merry as she .
She was always dressed in white , and Tom thought she looked like a little angel , as she danced and ran about .
Often and often she would come and walk sadly around the place where the poor slaves sat in their chains .
She would look pityingly at them , and then go slowly away .
Once or twice she came with her dress full of sweets , nuts , and oranges , and gave them all some .
Tom watched the little lady , and tried to make friends with her .
His pockets were full of all kinds of things , with which he used to amuse his old master 's children .
He could make whistles of every sort and size , cut baskets out of cherry-stones , faces out of nut-shells , jumping figures out of bits of wood .
He brought these out one by one , and though the little girl was shy at first , they soon grew to be great friends .
` What is missy 's name ? '
said Tom one day .
` Evangeline St. Clare , ' said the little girl ; ` though papa and everybody else call me Eva .
Now , what 's your name ? '
` My name 's Tom .
The little chil ` en at my old home used to call me Uncle Tom . '
` Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom , because , you see , I like you , ' said Eva .
` So , Uncle Tom , where are you going ? ' '
I do n't know , Miss Eva . '
` Do n't know ? '
said Eva .
` No .
I 'm going to be sold to somebody .
I do n't know who . '
` My papa can buy you , said Eva quickly .
` If he buys you you will have good times .
I mean to ask him to , this very day . '
` Thank you , my little lady , ' said Tom .
Just at this moment , the boat stopped at a small landing-place to take in some wood .
Eva heard her father 's voice , and ran away to speak to him .
Tom too rose and walked to the side .
He was allowed to go about now without chains .
He was so good and gentle , that even a man like Haley could not help seeing that it could do no harm to let him go free .
Tom helped the sailors to carry the wood on the boat .
He was so big and strong that they were very glad to have his help .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Eva and her father were standing by the railings as the boat once more began to move .
It had hardly left the landing-stage when , some how or other , Eva lost her balance .
She fell right over the side of the boat into the water .
Tom was standing just under her , on the lower deck , as she fell .
In one moment he sprang after her .
The next he had caught her his arms , and was swimming with her to the boat-side , where eager hands were held out to take her .
The whole boat was in confusion .
Every one ran to help Eva , while the poor slave went back to his place , unnoticed and uncared for .
But Mr. St. Clare did not forget .
The next day Tom sat on the lower deck , with folded arms , anxiously watching him as he talked to Haley .
Eva 's father was a very handsome man .
He was like Eva , with the same beautiful blue eyes and golden-brown hair .
He was very fond of fun and laughter , and though he had quite made up his mind to buy Tom , he was now teasing Haley , and pretending to think that he was asking too much money for him .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Papa do buy him , it 's no matter what you pay ' , whispered Eva softly , putting her arms around her father 's neck .
` You have money enough , I know .
I want him . '
` What for , pussy ?
Are you going to use him for a rattle-box , or a rocking-horse , or what ? ' '
I want to make him happy . '
Mr. St. Clare laughed ; but after making a few more jokes about it , he gave Haley the money he asked for , and Tom had a new master .
` Come , Eva , ' said Mr. St. Clare , and , taking her hand , went across the boat to Tom .
` Look up , Tom , ' he said to him , ` and see how you like your new master . '
Tom looked up .
Mr. St. Clare had such a gay , young , handsome face , that Tom could not help feeling glad .
Grateful tears rushed to his eyes as he said , ` God bless you , mas ` r. ' ` Can you drive horses , Tom ? '
` I 've been allays used to horses , ' said Tom .
` Well , I think I 'll make you a coachman .
But you must not get drunk . '
Tom looked surprised and a little hurt . '
I never drink ' , mas ` r , ' he said .
` Never mind , my boy , ' said Mr. St. Clare , seeing him look so grave ; ' I do n't doubt you mean to do well . ' '
I certainly do , mas ` r , ' said Tom .
` And you shall have good times , ' said Eva .
` Papa is very good to everybody , only he always will laugh at them . '
` Papa is much obliged to you , ' said Mr. St. Clare laughing , as he walked away .
CHAPTER VIII ELIZA AMONG THE QUAKERS While Uncle Tom was sailing South , down the wide river , to his new master 's home , Eliza with her boy was travelling north to Canada .
Kind people helped her all the way .
She passed from friend to friend , till she arrived safely at a village where the people were Quakers .
The Quakers were gentle , quiet people .
They all dressed alike in plain grey clothes , and the women wore big , white muslin caps .
Because they thought it was wicked to have slaves , they helped those who ran away from their cruel masters .
Often they were punished for doing this , but still they went on helping the poor slaves .
For though the laws said it was wrong , they felt quite sure that it was really right to do so .
The kind Quaker women grew to be very fond of Eliza , and would have been glad if she would have stayed with them .
But Eliza said , ` No , I must go on ; I dare not stop .
I ca n't sleep at night : I ca n't rest .
Last night I dreamed I saw that man come into the yard . '
` Poor child , ' said Rachel , the kind Quaker woman to whom she was speaking , ` poor child , thee must n't feel so .
No slave that has run away has ever been stolen from our village .
It is safe here . '
While they were talking , Simeon , Rachel 's husband , came to the door and called , ` Wife , I want to speak to thee a minute . '
Rachel went out to him .
` Eliza 's husband is here , ' he said .
` Art thee sure ? '
asked Rachel , her face bright with joy .
` Yes , quite certain ; he will be here soon .
Will thee tell her ? '
Rachel went back into the kitchen , where Eliza was sewing , and , opening the door of a small bedroom , said gently , ` Come in here with me , my daughter ; I have news to tell thee . '
Eliza rose trembling , she was so afraid it was bad news .
` No , no !
never fear thee .
It 's good news , Eliza , ' said Simeon , Rachel shut the door , and drew Eliza towards her .
` The Lord has been very good to thee , ' she said gently .
` Thy husband hath escaped , and will be here to-night . '
` To-night ! '
repeated Eliza , ` to-night ! '
Then it seemed as if the room and everything in it swam round her , and she fell into Rachel 's arms .
Very gently Rachel laid her down on the bed .
Eliza slept as she had not slept since the dreadful night when she had taken her boy and run away through the cold , dark night .
She dreamed of a beautiful country -- a land , it seemed to her , of rest -- green shores , pleasant islands , and lovely glittering water .
There in a house , which kind voices told her was her home , she saw Harry playing happily .
She heard her husband 's footstep .
She felt him coming nearer .
His arms were around her , his tears falling upon her face , and she awoke .
It was no dream .
The sun had set , the candles were lit .
Harry was sleeping by her side , and George , her husband , was holding her in his arms .
CHAPTER IX UNCLE TOM 'S NEW HOME Uncle Tom soon settled down in his new home .
He was as happy as he could be , so far away from his wife and dear little children .
He had a kind master .
Mrs. St. Clare , however , was not nearly so nice as her husband .
She was cruel , and would often have beaten her poor slaves , but Mr. St. Clare would not allow it .
She always pretended that she was very ill , and spent most of her time lying on a sofa , or driving about in her comfortable carriage .
Mrs. St. Clare said she really was too ill to look after the house , so everything was left to the slaves .
Soon things began to be very uncomfortable , and even good-natured Mr. St. Clare could stand it no longer .
He went to his cousin , Miss Ophelia St. Clare , and begged her to come and keep house for him , and to look after Eva .
It was on the journey back with her that the accident to Eva happened , which ended in his buying Tom .
Miss Ophelia was a very prim and precise person , not at all like the St. Clares .
In her home people did not have slaves .
Though her cousin had a great many , and was kind to them , she could not help seeing that it was a very wicked thing to buy and sell men and women as if they were cattle .
She was very , very sorry for the poor slaves , and would have liked to free them all .
Yet she did not love them .
She could not bear even to have them near her , nor to touch them , just because they were black .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- It made her quite ill to see Eva kissing and hugging the black slave women when she came home .
` Well , I could n't do that , ' she said .
` Why not ? '
said Mr. St. Clare , who was looking on .
` Well , I want to be kind to every one .
I would n't have anybody hurt .
But , as to kissing niggers -- ' she gave a little shudder .
` How can she ? '
Presently a gay laugh sounded from the court .
Mr. St. Clare stepped out to see what was happening .
` What is it ? '
said Miss Ophelia , following him .
There sat Tom on a little mossy seat in the court .
Every one of his buttonholes was stuck full of flowers .
Eva , laughing gaily , was hanging a wreath of roses round his neck .
Then , still laughing , she perched on his knee like a little sparrow .
` Oh , Tom , you look so funny ! '
Tom had a sober smile on his face .
He seemed in his own quiet way to be enjoying the fun quite as much as his little mistress .
When he lifted his eyes and saw his master he looked as if he were afraid he might be scolded .
But Mr. St. Clare only smiled .
` How can you let her do that ? '
said Miss Ophelia .
` Why not ? '
said Mr. St. Clare .
` Why ?
I do n't know .
It seems dreadful to me . '
` You would think it was quite right and natural if you saw Eva playing with a large dog , even if he was black .
But a fellow-creature that can think , and reason , and feel , and is immortal , you shudder at .
I know how you north-country people feel about it .
You loathe the blacks as you would a toad or a snake .
Yet you pity them , and are angry because they are often ill-treated . '
` Well , cousin , ' said Miss Ophelia thoughtfully , ' I daresay you are right .
I suppose I must try to get over my feeling . '
CHAPTER X UNCLE TOM 'S LETTER Uncle Tom felt that he was indeed very fortunate to have found such a kind master and so good a home .
He had nice clothes , plenty of food , and a comfortable room to sleep in .
He had no hard , disagreeable work to do .
His chief duties were to drive Mrs. St. Clare 's carriage when she wanted to go out , and to attend on Eva when she wanted him .
He soon grew to love his little mistress very , very much indeed .
Mr. St. Clare too began to find Tom very useful .
He was dreadfully careless about money , and his chief servant was just as careless as his master .
So between them a great deal was not only spent but wasted .
Mr. Shelby had trusted Tom in everything , and Tom had always been careful of his master 's money -- as careful as if it had been his own .
Waste seemed dreadful to him , and he tried to do something to stop it now .
Mr. St. Clare was not long in finding out how clever Tom was , and soon trusted him as thoroughly as Mr. Shelby had done .
But in spite of all his good fortune , Tom used to long very much to go home to see his dear ones again .
He had plenty of spare time , and whenever he had nothing to do he would pull his Bible out of his pocket and try to find comfort in reading it .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- But as time went on , Uncle Tom longed more and more for his home .
At last one day he had a grand idea .
He would write a letter .
Before Uncle Tom was sold , George Shelby had been teaching him to write so he thought he could manage a letter .
He begged a sheet of writing-paper from Eva , and going to his room began to make a rough copy on his slate .
It was very difficult .
Poor Uncle Tom found that he had quite forgotten how to make some of the letters .
Of those he did remember , he was not quite sure which he ought to use .
Yes , it was a very difficult thing indeed .
While he was working away , breathing very hard over it , Eva came behind him , and peeped over his shoulder .
` Oh , Uncle Tom !
what funny things you are making there ! '
Eva put her little golden head close to Uncle Tom 's black one , and the two began a grave and anxious talk over the letter .
They were both very earnest , and both very ignorant .
But after a great deal of consulting over every word , the writing began , they really thought , to look quite like a proper letter .
` Yes , Uncle Tom , it begins to look beautiful , ' said Eva , gazing on it with delight .
` How pleased your wife will be , and the poor little children !
Oh , it is a shame that you ever had to go away from them !
I mean to ask papa to let you go back , some day . '
` Missis said that she would send down money for me , as soon as they could get it together , ' said Tom .
` Young Mas ' r George , he said he 'd come for me .
He gave me this dollar as a sign , ' and Tom drew the precious dollar from under his coat .
` Oh , he is sure to come , then , ' said Eva , ' I am so glad . ' '
I wanted to send a letter , you see , to let 'em know where I was , and tell poor Chloe that I was well off , 'cause she felt so dreadful , poor soul . ' '
I say , Tom , ' said Mr. St. Clare , coming in at the door at this minute .
Tom and Eva both started .
` What 's this ? '
Mr. St. Clare went on , coming up and looking at the slate .
` Oh , it 's Tom 's letter .
I 'm helping him to write it , ' said Eva .
` Is n't it nice ? ' '
I would n't discourage either of you , ' said her father ; ` but I rather think , Tom , you had better let me write your letter for you .
I 'll do it when I come home from my ride . '
` It is very important that he should write , ' said Eva , ` because his mistress is going to send money to buy him back again , you know , papa .
He told me they had said so . '
Mr. St. Clare thought in his heart that very likely this meant nothing .
He thought it was only one of these things which good-natured people said to their slaves to comfort them when they were taken away from their dear ones to be sold .
He did not really believe Mrs. Shelby meant to buy Tom back again .
However , he did not say so out loud , but just told Tom to get the horses ready for a ride .
That evening the letter was written , and Uncle Tom carried it joyfully to the post-office .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- CHAPTER XII GEORGE FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM The day after George and Eliza met each other once more at the end of so many sad months of parting , was a very happy one in the Quaker house .
The two had much to say to each other .
George had to tell how he had escaped from his cruel master , and how he had followed Eliza all the way and at last found her .
Then there were plans to make for going on towards Canada .
It was arranged that they should start that night at ten o'clock .
` The pursuers are hard after thee , we must not delay , ' said Simeon .
Rachel was happy and busy , packing up food and clothes for them to take on the journey .
Late in the afternoon another Quaker , called Phineas , came with the dreadful news that the wicked men , whom Haley had sent to catch Eliza , were only a few miles away .
So George and Eliza decided to start as soon as it was dark .
A little while after supper a large covered waggon drew up before the door .
They got in and the waggon drove off .
On and on , all through the dark night they drove .
About three o'clock , George heard the click of a horse 's hoof coming behind them .
` That 's Simeon , ' said Phineas , who was driving , as he pulled up the horses to listen .
` Halloa , there , Simeon , ' he shouted , ` what news ?
Are they coming ? '
` Yes , right on behind , eight or ten of them . '
` Oh !
what shall we do ? '
groaned Eliza .
But Phineas knew the road well .
He lashed the horses till they flew along , the waggon rattling and jumping over the hard road behind them .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- On they went till they came to a place where the rocks rose straight up from the road like a wall .
It seemed impossible for any one to climb up there .
But Phineas knew a way .
He stopped the horses .
` Here , Simeon , ' he said , ` take the waggon , and drive on as fast as thou canst , and bring back help .
Now follow me , ' he said to the others , ` quick , for your lives .
Run now , if you you ever did run . '
Quicker than we can say it , they were following him up a tiny narrow path to the top of the rocks , and Simeon was galloping the horses with the empty waggon along the road .
` We are pretty safe here , ' said Phineas , when they had reached the top .
` Only one person can come up that path at a time .
If any one tries it , shoot him . '
The men who were chasing them had now arrived at the foot of of the rocks .
They were led by a big man called Tom Loker , and another mean-looking little man , whom Haley had sent .
After some hunting about , they found the path , and , headed by Tom Loker , began to climb up .
` Come up if you like , ' George called out , ` but if you do we will shoot you . '
For answer , the little man took aim at George , and fired .
Eliza screamed , but the shot did not hurt him .
It passed close to his hair , nearly touched her cheek , and , struck a tree behind .
Tom Loker came on .
George waited until he was near enough , then he fired .
The shot hit him in the side .
But , though wounded , he would not go back .
With a yell like that of a mad bull he came leaping on , and sprang right in among them .
Quakers are not allowed to use guns and pistols , so Phineas had been standing back while George shot .
Now he sprang forward .
As Tom Loker landed in the middle of them , he gave him a great push , saying , ` Friend , thee is n't wanted here . '
Down fell Tom Loker , down , down the steep side of the rock .
He crashed and crackled among trees , bushes , logs , loose stones , till he lay bruised and groaning far below .
The fall might have killed him , had it not been broken by his clothes catching on the branches of a large tree .
Cruel people are , very often , cowardly too .
When the men saw their leader first wounded , and then thrown down , they all ran away .
Mounting their horses , they rode off as fast as they could , leaving Tom Loker lying on the ground wounded and groaning with pain .
As soon as Phineas and the others saw that the wicked men had really ridden away , they climbed down , meaning to walk along the road till they met Simeon .
They had just reached the bottom , when they saw him coming back with the waggon and two other men .
` Now we are safe , ' cried Phineas joyfully .
` Well , do stop then , ' said Eliza , ` and do something for that poor man .
He is groaning dreadfully . '
` It would be no more than Christian , ' said George .
` Let us take him with us . '
They lifted the wounded man gently , as if he had been a friend instead of a cruel enemy , and laid him in the waggon .
Then they all set out once more .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- A drive of about an hour brought them to a neat farm-house .
There the tired travellers were kindly received and given a good breakfast .
Tom Loker was put into a comfortable bed , far cleaner and softer than any he had ever slept in before .
George and Eliza walked about the garden hand-in-hand , feeling happy together , and almost safe .
They were so near Canada now .
CHAPTER XIII AUNT DINAH Miss Ophelia found that it was no easy matter to bring anything like order into the St. Clare household .
The slaves had been left to themselves so long , and had grown so untidy , that they were not at all pleased with Miss Feely , as they called her , for trying to make them be tidy .
However , she had quite made up her mind that order there must be .
She got up at four o'clock in the morning , much to the surprise of the housemaids .
All day long she was busy dusting and tidying , till Mrs. St. Clare said it made her tired to see cousin Ophelia so busy .
CHAPTER XIV TOPSY One morning , while Miss Ophelia was busy , as usual , she heard Mr. St. Clare calling her from the foot of the stairs .
` Come down here , cousin .
I have something to show you . '
` What is it ? '
said Miss Ophelia , coming down with her sewing in her hand . '
I have bought something for you .
See here , ' he said , pulling forward a little negro girl of about eight or nine years old .
She was quite black .
Her round , shining eyes glittered like glass beads .
Her wooly hair was plaited into little tails which stuck out in all directions .
Her clothes were dirty and ragged .
Miss Ophelia thought she had never seen such a dreadful little girl in all her life .
` Cousin , what in the world have you brought that thing here for ? '
she asked , in dismay .
` For you to teach , to be sure , and train in the way she should go , ' said Mr. St. Clare , laughing .
` Topsy , ' he went on , ` this is your new mistress .
See , now , that you behave yourself . '
` Yes , mas ` r , ' said Topsy gravely , but her eyes had a wicked twinkle in them .
` You 're going to be good , Topsy , you understand ? '
said Mr. St. Clare .
` Oh yes , mas ` r ' said Topsy again , meekly folding her hands , but with another twinkle in her eyes .
` Now cousin , what is this for ?
Your house is full of these little plagues as it is .
I get up in the morning and find one asleep behind the door ; see one black head poking out from under the table ; another lying on the mat .
They tumble over the kitchen floor , so that a body ca n't put their foot down without treading on them .
What on earth did you want to bring this one for ? '
` For you to teach , did n't I tell you ? ' '
I do n't want her , I 'm sure .
I have more to do with them now than I want . '
` Well the fact is , cousin , ' said Mr. St. Clare , drawing her aside , ` she belonged to some people who were dreadfully cruel and beat her .
I could n't bear to hear her screaming every day , so I bought her .
I will give her to you .
Do try and make something of her . '
` Well , I 'll do what I can , ' said Miss Ophelia .
` She is fearfully dirty , and half naked . '
` Well , take her downstairs , and tell somebody to clean her up , and give her some decent clothes . '
Getting Topsy clean was a very long business .
But at last it was done .
Then , sitting down before her , Miss Ophelia began to question her .
` How old are you , Topsy ? '
` Dunno , missis , ' said she , grinning like an ugly little black doll .
` Do n't know how old you are !
Did nobody ever tell you ?
Who was your mother ? '
` Never had none , ' said Topsy , with another grin .
` Never had any mother !
What do you mean ?
Where were you born ? '
` Never was born . '
` You must n't answer me like that , child , ' said Miss Ophelia sternly . '
I am not playing with you .
Tell me where you were born , and who your father and mother were . '
` Never was born , ' said Topsy again very decidedly .
` Never had no father , nor mother , nor nothin ! '
Miss Ophelia hardly knew what to make of her .
` How long have you lived with your master and mistress , then ? '
she asked .
` Dunno , missis . '
` Is it a year , or more , or less ? '
` Dunno , missis . '
` Have you ever heard anything about God , Topsy ? '
asked Miss Ophelia next .
Topsy looked puzzled , but kept on grinning .
` Do you know who made you ? '
` Nobody as I knows on , ' replied Topsy , with a laugh .
` Spect I grow 'd .
Do n't think nobody ever made me . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Do you know how to sew ? '
asked Miss Ophelia , quite shocked .
` No , missis . '
` What can you do ?
What did you do for your master and mistress ? '
` Fetch water , and wash dishes , and clean knives , and wait on folks . '
` Well , now , Topsy , I 'm going to show you just how my bed is to be made .
I am very particular about my bed .
You must learn exactly how to do it . '
` Yes , missis , ' said Topsy , with a deep sigh and a face of woeful earnestness .
` Now , Topsy , look here .
This is the hem of the sheet .
This is the right side of the sheet .
This is the wrong .
Will you remember ? '
` Yes , missis , ' said Topsy with another sigh .
` Well , now , the under-sheet you must bring over the bolster -- so , and tuck it right down under the mattress nice and smooth -- so .
Do you see ? '
` Yes , missis . '
` But the upper sheet , ' said Miss Ophelia , ` must be brought down in this way , and tucked under , firm and smooth , at the foot -- so , the narrow hem at the foot . '
` Yes , missis , ' said Topsy as before .
But while Miss Ophelia was bending over the bed she had quickly seized a pair of gloves and a ribbon , which were lying on the dressing-table , and slipped them up her sleeves .
When Miss Ophelia looked up again , the naughty little girl was standing with meekly-folded hand as before .
` Now , Topsy , let me see you do this , ' said Miss Ophelia , pulling the clothes off again and seating herself .
Topsy , looking very earnest , did it all just as she had been shown .
She did it so quickly and well that Miss Ophelia was very pleased .
But , alas !
as she was finishing , an end of ribbon came dangling out of her sleeve .
` What is this ? '
said Miss Ophelia , seizing it .
` You naughty , wicked child -- you have been stealing this . '
The ribbon was pulled out of Topsy 's own sleeve .
Yet she did not seem a bit ashamed .
She only looked at it with an air of surprise and innocence .
` Why , that 's Miss Feely 's ribbon , a n't it ?
How could it a got into my sleeve ? '
` Topsy , you naughty girl , do n't tell me a lie .
You stole that ribbon , ' ` Missis , I declare I did n't .
Never seed it till dis blessed minnit . '
` Topsy , ' said Miss Ophelia , ` do n't you know it is wicked to tell lies ? ' '
I never tells no lies , Miss Feely , ' said Topsy .
` It 's jist the truth I 've been , tellin ' now .
It a n't nothin ' else . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Topsy , I shall have to whip you , if you tell lies so . '
` Laws , missis , if you whip 's all day , could n't say no other way , ' said Topsy , beginning to cry . '
I never seed dat ribbon .
It must a caught in my sleeve .
Miss Feely must ' a left it on the bed , and it got caught in the clothes , and so got in my sleeve . '
Miss Ophelia was so angry at such a barefaced lie that she caught Topsy and shook her .
` Do n't tell me that again , ' she said .
The shake brought the gloves on the floor from the other sleeve .
` There , ' said Miss Ophelia , ` will you tell me now you did n't steal the ribbon ? '
Topsy now confessed to stealing the gloves .
But she , still said she had not taken the ribbon .
` Now , Topsy ' , said Miss Ophelia kindly , ` if you will confess all about it I wo n't whip you this time . '
So Topsy confessed to having stolen both the ribbon and the gloves .
She said she was very , very sorry , and would never do it again .
` Well , now , tell me , ' said Miss Ophelia , ` have you taken anything else since you have been in the house ?
If you confess I wo n't whip you . '
` Laws , missis , I took Miss Eva 's red thing she wears on her neck . '
` You did , you naughty child !
Well , what else ? ' '
I took Rosa 's ear-rings -- them red ones . '
` Go and bring them to me this minute -- both of them . '
` Laws , missis , I ca n't -- they 's burnt up . '
` Burnt up ?
What a story !
Go and get them , or I shall whip you . '
Topsy began to cry and groan , and declare that she could not .
` They 's burnt up , they is . '
` What did you burn them up for ? '
asked Miss Ophelia .
'Cause I 's wicked , I is .
I 's mighty wicked , anyhow .
I ca n't help it . '
Just at this minute Eva came into the room wearing her coral necklace .
` Why , Eva , where did you get your necklace ? '
said Miss Ophelia .
` Get it ?
Why , I have had it on all day , ' answered Eva , rather surprised .
` And what is funny , aunty , I had it on all night too .
I forgot to take it off when I went to bed . '
Miss Ophelia looked perfectly astonished .
She was more astonished still when , next minute , Rosa , who was one of the housemaids , came in with a basket of clean clothes , wearing her coral ear-rings as usual .
I 'm sure I do n't know what to do with such a child , ' she said , in despair .
` What in the world made you tell me you took those things , Topsy ? '
` Why , missis said I must ` fess .
I could n't think of nothing else to ` fess , ' said Topsy , wiping her eyes .
` But of course , I did n't want you to confess things you did n't do , ' said Miss Ophelia .
` That is telling a lie just as much as the other . '
` Laws , now , is it ? '
said Topsy , looking surprised and innocent .
` Poor Topsy , ' said Eva , ` why need you steal ?
You are going to be taken good care of now .
I am sure I would rather give you anything of mine than have you steal it . '
Topsy had never been spoken to so kindly and gently in all her life .
For a minute she looked as if she were going to cry .
The next she was grinning as usual in her ugly way .
What was to be done with Topsy ?
Miss Ophelia was quite puzzled .
She shut her up in a dark room till she could think about it . '
I do n't see , ' she said to Mr. St. Clare , ` how I am going to manage that child without whipping her . '
` Well , whip her , then . ' '
I never heard of bringing up children without it , ' said Miss Ophelia .
` Oh , well , do as you think best .
Only , I have seen this child beaten with a poker , knocked down with the shovel or tongs , or anything that came handy .
So I do n't think your beatings will have much effect . '
` What is to be done with her , then ? '
said Miss Ophelia . '
I never saw such a child as this . '
But Mr. St. Clare could not answer her question .
So Miss Ophelia had to go on , as best she could , trying to make Topsy a good girl .
She taught her to read and to sew .
Topsy liked reading , and learned her letters like magic .
But she could not bear sewing .
So she broke her needles or threw them away .
She tangled , broke , and dirtied her cotton and hid her reels .
Miss Ophelia felt sure all these things could not be accidents .
Yet she could never catch Topsy doing them .
In a very few days Topsy had learned how to do Miss Ophelia 's room perfectly , for she was very quick and clever .
But if Miss Ophelia ever left her to do it by herself there was sure to be dreadful confusion .
Instead of making the bed , she would amuse herself with pulling off the pillow-cases .
Then she would butt her woolly head among the pillows , until it was covered with feathers sticking out in all directions .
She would climb the bedpost , and hang head downwards from the top ; wave the sheets and covers all over the room ; dress the bolster up in Miss Ophelia 's nightgown and act scenes with it , singing , whistling , and making faces at herself in the looking-glass all the time .
` Topsy , ' Miss Ophelia would say , when her patience was at an end , ` what makes you behave so badly ? '
` Dunno , missis -- I ` spects ' cause I 's so wicked . ' '
I do n't know what I shall do with you , Topsy . '
` Laws , missis , you must whip me .
My old missis always did .
I a n't used to workin ' unless I gets whipped . '
So Miss Ophelia tried it .
Topsy would scream and groan and implore .
But half an hour later she would be sitting among the other little niggers belonging to the house , laughing about it .
` Miss Feely whip ! '
she would say , ` she ca n't do it nohow . '
` Law , you niggers , ' she would go on , ` does you know you 's all sinners ?
Well , you is ; everybody is .
White folks is sinners too -- Miss Feely says so .
But I ` spects niggers is the biggest ones .
But ye a n't any of ye up to me .
I 's so awful wicked , there ca n't nobody do nothin ' with me .
I ` spects I 's the wickedest crittur in the world . '
Then she would turn a somersault , and come up bright and smiling , evidently quite pleased with herself .
CHAPTER XV EVA AND TOPSY Two or three years passed .
Uncle Tom was still with Mr. St. Clare , far away from his home .
He was not really unhappy .
But always in his heart was the aching longing to see his dear ones again .
Now he began to have a new sorrow .
He loved his little mistress Eva very tenderly , and she was ill .
He saw that she was growing white and thin .
She no longer ran and played in the garden for hours together as she used to do .
She was always tired now .
Miss Ophelia noticed it too , and tried to make Mr. St. Clare see it .
But he would not .
He loved his little Eva so much , that he did not want to believe that anything could be the matter with her .
Mrs. St. Clare never thought that any one , except herself , could be ill .
So Eva grew daily thinner and weaker , and Uncle Tom and Aunt Ophelia more and more sad and anxious .
But at last she became so unwell , that even Mr. St. Clare had to own that something was wrong , and the doctor was sent for .
In a week or two she was very much better .
Once more she ran about playing and laughing , and her father was delighted .
Only Miss Ophelia and the doctor sighed and shook their heads .
And little Eva herself knew ; but she was not troubled .
She knew she was going to God .
` Papa ' she said one day , ` there are some things I want to say to you .
I want to say them now while I am able . '
She seated herself on his knee , and laid her head on his shoulder .
` It is all no use , papa , to keep it to myself any longer .
The time is coming when I am going to leave you .
I am going , never to come back ' , and Eva sobbed .
` Eva , darling , do n't say such things ; you are better you know . '
` No , papa , I am not any better .
I know it quite well , and I am going soon . '
` And I want to go , ' she went on , ` only I do n't want to leave you -- it almost breaks my heart . '
` Do n't , Eva , do n't talk so .
What makes you so sad ? ' '
I feel sad for our poor people .
I wish , papa , they were all free .
Is n't there any way to have all slaves made free ? '
` That is a difficult question , dearest .
There is no doubt that this way is a very bad one .
A great many people think so .
I do myself .
I wish there was not a slave in the land .
But then , I do n't know what is to be done about it . '
` Papa , you are such a good man , and so noble and kind .
Could n't you go all around and try and persuade people to do right about this ?
When I am dead , papa , then you will think of me , and do it for my sake . '
` When you are dead , Eva !
Oh , child , do n't talk to me so . '
` Promise me at least , father , that Tom shall have his freedom , as soon as I am gone . '
` Yes , dear , I will do anything you wish .
Only do n't talk so . '
Miss Ophelia and Eva had been to church together .
Miss Ophelia had gone to her room to take off her bonnet , while Eva talked to her father .
Suddenly Mr. St. Clare and his little girl heard a great noise coming from Miss Ophelia 's room .
A minute later she appeared , dragging Topsy behind her .
` Come out here ' she was saying . '
I will tell your master . '
` What is the matter now ? '
asked Mr. St. Clare .
` The matter is that I can not be plagued with this child any longer ' said Miss Ophelia .
` It is past all bearing .
Here , I locked her up , and gave her a hymn to learn .
What does she do , but spy out where I put my key .
She has gone to my wardrobe , taken a bonnet-trimming , and cut it all to pieces to make dolls ' jackets !
I never saw anything like it in my life . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ' I do n't know what to do ' she went on ; ' I have taught and taught .
I have talked till I 'm tired .
I 've whipped her .
I 've punished her in every way I can think of , and still she is as naughty as she was at first . '
` Come here , Topsy , you monkey , ' said Mr. St. Clare .
Topsy came , her hard , round eyes glittering and blinking , half in fear , half in mischief .
` What makes you behave so ? '
said Mr. St. Clare , who could not help being amused at her funny expression .
` Spects it 's my wicked heart ; Miss Feely says so . '
` Do n't you see how much Miss Ophelia has done for you ?
She says she has done everything she can think of . '
` Lor ' , yes , mas ` r !
Old missis used to say so , too .
She whipped me a heap harder , and used to pull my hair and knock my head agin the door .
But it did n't do me no good .
I ` spect if they is to pull every hair out o ' my head it would n't do no good neither .
I 's so wicked .
Laws !
I 's nothin ' but a nigger noways . ' '
I shall have to give her up , ' said Miss Ophelia . '
I ca n't have that trouble any longer . '
Eva had stood silent , listening .
Now she took Topsy by the hand , and led her into a little room close by .
` What makes you so naughty , Topsy ? '
she said , with tears in her eyes .
` Why do n't you try to be good ?
Do n't you love anybody , Topsy ? '
` Dunno nothin ' ` bout love .
I love candy , that 's all . '
` But you love your father and mother ? '
` Never had none , ye know .
I telled ye that , Miss Eva . '
` Oh , I forgot , ' said Eva sadly .
` But had n't you any brother , or sister or aunt , or -- ' ` No , none on 'em .
Never had nothin ' nor nobody . '
` But , Topsy , if you would only try to be good you might -- ' ` Could n't never be nothin ' but a nigger , if I was ever so good , ' said Topsy .
` If I could be skinned , and come white , I 'd try then . '
` But people can love you , if you are black , Topsy .
Miss Ophelia would love you if you were good . '
Topsy laughed scornfully .
` Do n't you think so ? '
said Eva .
` No .
She ca n't bear me , 'cause I 'm a nigger .
She 'd as soon have a toad touch her .
There ca n't nobody love niggers , and niggers ca n't do nothin ' .
I do n't care , ' and Topsy began whistling to show that she did n't .
` Oh , Topsy !
I love you , ' said Eva , laying her little , thin hand on Topsy 's shoulder . '
I love you , because you have n't had any mother , or father , or friends ; because you have been a poor , ill-used child .
I love you , and I want you to be good .
It makes me sorry to have you so naughty .
I wish you would try to be good for my sake , because I 'm going to die soon .
I sha n't be here very long . '
Topsy 's round , bright eyes grew suddenly dim with tears .
She did believe at last that it was possible for some one to love her .
She laid her head down between her knees and wept and sobbed .
` Poor Topsy , ' said Eva gently .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Oh , Miss Eva , dear Miss Eva , ' cried the poor little black child , ' I will try , I will try .
I never did care nothin ' about it before . '
CHAPTER XVI EVA 'S LAST GOOD-BYE It soon became quite plain to everybody that Eva was very ill indeed .
She never ran about and played now , but spent most of the day lying on the sofa in her own pretty room .
Every one loved her , and tried to do things for her .
Even naughty little Topsy used to bring her flowers , and try to be good for her sake .
Uncle Tom was a great deal in Eva 's room .
She used to get very restless , and then she liked to be carried about .
He was so big and strong that he could do it very easily .
He would walk about with her under the orange-trees in the garden , or sitting down on some of their old seats , would sing their favorite hymns .
He loved to do it , and could not bear to be long away from his little mistress .
He gave up sleeping in his bed , and lay all night on the mat outside her door .
One day Eva made her aunt cut off a lot of her beautiful hair .
Then she called all the slaves together , said good-bye to them , and gave them each a curl of her hair as a keepsake .
They all cried very much , and said they would never forget her , and would try to be good for her sake .
A few nights later Miss Ophelia came quickly to Tom , as he lay on the mat outside Eva 's door .
` Go , Tom , ' she said , ` go as fast as you can for the doctor . '
Tom ran .
But in the morning little Eva lay on her bed , cold and white , with closed eyes and folded hands .
She had gone to God .
Mr. St. Clare was very , very unhappy for a long time after Eva died .
He had loved her so much , that now his life seemed quite empty without her .
He did not forget his promise to her about Tom .
He went to his lawyer , and told him to begin writing out the papers that would make Tom free .
It took some time to make a slave free .
` Well , Tom , ' said Mr. St. Clare the day after he had spoken to his Lawyer , ` I 'm going to make a free man of you .
So have your trunk packed and get ready to set out for home . '
Joy shone in Uncle Tom 's face .
` Bless the Lord , ' he said , raising his hands to heaven .
Mr. St. Clare felt rather hurt .
He did not like Tom to be so glad to leave him .
` You have n't had such a very bad time here that you need be in such rapture , Tom , ' he said .
` No , no , mas ` r !
ta n't that .
It 's bein ' a free man !
That 's what I 'm joyin ' for . '
` Why , Tom , do n't you think that you are really better off as you are ? '
` No , indeed , Mas ' r St. Clare , ' said Tom , very decidedly ; ` no , indeed . '
` But , Tom , you could n't possibly have earned by your work such clothes and such nice , comfortable rooms and good food as I have given you . ' '
I knows all that , Mas ' r St. Clare .
Mas ' r has been too good .
But , mas ` r , I 'd rather have poor clothes , poor house , poor everything , and have 'em mine than have the best , and have 'em any man 's else .
I had so , mas ` r. I thinks it 's nature , mas ` r. ' ' I suppose so , Tom .
You will be going off and leaving me , in a month or two , ' he said , rather discontentedly .
` Though why you should n't , I do n't know , ' he added , in a gayer voice .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Not while mas ' r is in trouble , ' said Tom .
` I 'll stay with mas ' r as long as he wants me -- so as I can be of any use . '
` Not while I am in trouble , Tom ? '
said Mr. St. Clare , looking sadly out of the window .
` And when will my trouble be over ? '
Then half-smiling he turned from the window , and laid his hand on Tom 's shoulder .
` Ah , Tom , you soft , silly boy , ' he said . '
I wo n't keep you .
Go home to your wife and children , and give them all my love . '
` Cousin , ' said Miss Ophelia , coming into the room , ' I want to speak to you about Topsy . '
` What has she been doing now ? '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Nothing ; she is a much better girl than she used to be .
But I want to ask you , whose is she -- yours or mine ? '
` Why yours , of course ; I gave her to you , ' said Mr. St. Clare .
` But not by law .
There is no use my trying to make this child a Christian , unless I can be quite sure that she will not be sold as a slave again .
If you are really willing I should have her , I want you to give me a paper saying she is mine . '
` But you think it is wicked to keep slaves .
Now you want to have one of your own .
Oh !
shocking , cousin , ' said Mr. St. Clare , who loved to tease .
` Nonsense !
I only want to have her , so that I can set her free . '
` Very well , ' said Mr. St. Clare , ' I will write the paper for you . '
Then he sat down and began to read .
` But I want it done now , ' said Miss Ophelia .
` Why are you in such a hurry ? '
` Because now is the only time there ever is to do a thing in , ' said Miss Ophelia .
` want to make sure of it .
You may die or lose all your money .
Then Topsy would be taken away and sold , in spite of anything I could say . '
Mr. St. Clare hated being made to do things when he did n't want to .
However , after teasing his cousin a little more , he wrote out the paper , and Topsy belonged to Miss Ophelia .
That evening Mr. St. Clare went out for a ride .
Tom saw him go , and asked if he should come too .
` No , my boy , ' said Mr. St. Clare , ' I shall be back in an hour . '
Tom sat down on the verandah to wait till his master came home .
While he waited , he fell asleep .
Presently he was awakened by loud knocking , and the sound of voices at the gate .
He ran to open it .
Several men were there carrying a load .
It was Mr. St. Clare .
He had been hurt in an accident , and was dying .
Very gently they laid him on a sofa .
Nothing could be done .
In a short time he had gone to join his little Eva .
CHAPTER XVII UNCLE TOM 'S NEW MASTER There had been great grief in the house when Eva died .
Now there was not only sorrow , but gloom and fear .
The kind master was dead , and the poor slaves asked themselves in despair what would happen to them now .
They were not long left in doubt .
One morning Mrs. St. Clare told them that they were all to be sold .
She was going back to her father 's house to live , and would not want them any more .
Poor Uncle Tom !
The news was a dreadful blow to him .
For a few days he had been so happy in the thought of going home .
Once more , after all these years , he thought he would see his dear wife and little children .
Now , at one stroke , he had lost both his kind master and his hope of freedom .
Instead of going home , he was to be sent farther away than ever from his dear ones .
He could not bear it .
He tried to say , `` Thy will be done '' , but bitter tears almost choked the words .
He had one hope left .
He would ask Miss Ophelia to speak to Mrs. St. Clare for him .
` Mas ' r St. Clare promised me my freedom , Miss Feely , ' he said .
` He told me that he had begun to take it out for me .
And now , perhaps , if you would be good enough to speak about it to missis , she would feel like going on with it .
Seeing it was Mas ' r St. Clare 's wish , she might . '
` I 'll speak for you , Tom , and do my best , ' said Miss Ophelia . '
I have n't much hope , but I will try . '
So Miss Ophelia asked Mrs. St. Clare to set Tom free .
` Indeed , I shall do no such thing , ' she replied .
` Tom is worth more than any of the other slaves .
I could n't afford to lose so much money .
Besides , what does he want with his freedom ?
He is a great deal better off as he is . '
` But he does want it very much , ' replied Miss Ophelia .
` And his master promised it to him . ' '
I dare say he does want it , ' replied Mrs. St. Clare .
` They all want it .
Just because they are a discontented set , always wanting what they have n't got . '
` But Tom is so good and gentle , and such a splendid worker .
If you sell him there is the chance of his getting a bad master . '
` Oh , I have no fear about that .
Most masters are good , in spite of all the talk people make about it , ' replied Mrs. St. Clare .
` Well ' , said Miss Ophelia at last , ' I know it was one of the last wishes of your husband that Tom should have his freedom .
He promised dear little Eva that he should have it .
I think you ought to do it . '
Then Mrs. St. Clare began to cry , and say every one was unkind to her , and Miss Ophelia saw it was no use saying anything more .
There was only one other thing she could do .
She wrote to Mrs. Shelby , telling her that poor Uncle Tom was going to be sold again .
She asked her to send money to buy him back , as soon as possible .
The next day , Uncle Tom and the other slaves belonging to Mr. St. Clare were sent to market to be sold .
As Uncle Tom stood in the market-place , waiting for some one to buy him , he looked anxiously round .
In the crowd of faces , he was trying to find one kind , handsome one , like Mr. St. Clare 's .
But there was none .
Presently a short , broad man , with a coarse , ugly face and dirty hands , came up to Tom .
He looked him all over , pulled his mouth open and looked at his teeth , pinched his arms , made him walk and jump , and indeed treated him as he would a horse or cow he had wished to buy .
Tom knew from the way this man looked and spoke , that he must be bad and cruel .
He prayed in his heart that this might not be his new master .
But it was .
His name was Legree .
He bought Uncle Tom , several other men slaves , and two women .
One of the women was a pretty young girl , who had never been away from her mother before , and who was very much afraid of her new master .
The other was an old woman .
The two women were chained together .
The men , Uncle Tom among them , had heavy chains put on both hands and feet .
Then Legree drove them all on to a boat which was going up the river to his plantation .
It was a sad journey .
This time there was no pretty Eva , nor kind-hearted Mr. St. Clare , to bring any happiness to the poor slaves .
One of the first things Legree did was to take away all Tom 's nice clothes which Mr. St. Clare had given him .
He made him put on his oldest clothes , then he sold all the others to the sailors .
Legree made his slaves unhappy in every way he could think of .
Then he would come up to them and say , ` Come , come , I do n't allow any sulky looks .
Be cheerful , now , or -- ' and he would crack his whip in a way to make them tremble .
At last the weary journey was over .
Legree and his slaves landed .
His house was a long way from the river .
The men slaves walked , while Legree and the two women drove in a cart .
Mile after mile they trudged along , over the rough road through wild and dreary country , till , hungry , thirsty , and tired , they arrived at the farm , or plantation as it was called .
Legree was not a gentleman like Mr. Shelby or Mr. St. Clare .
He was a very rough kind of farmer .
On his farm he grew cotton .
The cotton had to be gathered and tied into bundles .
Then he sold it to people who made it into calico , muslin , and other things , which we need to use and wear .
Gathering cotton is very hard work .
The house Legree lived in had once been a very fine one , and had belonged to a rich gentleman .
Now , it was old , neglected , and almost in ruins .
The house was bad enough , but the cabins where the slaves lived were far worse .
They were roughly built of wood .
The wind and the rain came through the chinks between the planks .
There were no windows .
The floors were nothing but the bare earth .
There was no furniture of any kind in them , only heaps of dirty straw to sleep upon .
Uncle Tom felt more unhappy than ever .
He had hoped at least to have a little room which he could keep clean and tidy .
But this hole he did not even have to himself .
He had to share it with five or six others .
Now began the saddest time of Uncle Tom 's life .
Every morning very early the slaves were driven out into the fields like cattle .
All day long they worked hard .
The burning sun blazed down upon them , making them hot and tired .
Legree and his two chief slaves , called Quimbo and Sambo , marched about all the time with whips in their hands .
At night they drove the slaves back again to their miserable huts .
But before they could rest , they had to grind and cook the corn for their supper .
When at last they did go to sleep , they had to lie on the heaps of dirty straw instead of in comfortable beds .
CHAPTER XVIII GEORGE AND ELIZA FIND FREEDOM Tom Loker lay tossing and tumbling in his clean , comfortable bed at the Quaker farmhouse .
A pretty , old Quaker lady , with white hair and a kind face , was nursing him .
Tom Loker did not like being ill and having to lie in bed .
He threw the clothes about , grumbling and using naughty words all the tune . '
I must ask thee , Thomas Loker , not to use such language , ' said the nice lady , as she smoothed his sheets , and made his bed comfortable again for him .
` Well , I wo n't , granny , if I can help it , ' he replied ; ` but it is enough to make a fellow swear , it is so awfully hot . '
He gave another great lunge , and made the sheets and blankets all untidy again . '
I suppose that fellow George and the girl Eliza are here , ' he said , in a sulky voice , after a few minutes ' silence .
` Yes , they are , ' said the old lady .
` They had better get away across the lake , ' said Tom Loker , ` the quicker the better . '
` Very likely they will do so , ' said the old lady , calmly going on with her knitting .
` But , listen , ' said Tom Loker , getting excited , ` there are people who are watching the boats for us .
I do n't care if I tell now .
I hope they will get away , just to spite the others for going and leaving me as they did -- the mean puppies , the -- ' ` Thomas Loker ! '
said the old lady . '
I tell you , granny , if you bottle a fellow up too tight he 'll split , ' said Tom Loker .
` But about Eliza -- tell them to dress her up some way so as to alter her .
We have sent a description of what she looks like to the town where the boats start from .
She will be caught yet if she does n't dress up differently . ' '
I thank thee , Thomas Loker , ' replied the old lady with her usual calmness .
` We will attend to that .
Thank thee . '
Then she went to tell George and Eliza what Tom Loker had said .
They were indeed very grateful to him , and very glad that they had not left him , as his own friends had done , to die by the roadside .
So next day Eliza cut off all her beautiful black hair , and dressed herself like a boy .
` Do n't I make a pretty young fellow ? '
she said to George , laughing and blushing at the same time .
` You always will be pretty , ' said George gravely , ` do what you will . '
` What makes you so sober ? '
asked Eliza , kneeling on one knee , and laying her hand on his .
` We are within twenty-four hours of Canada , they say .
Only a day and a night on the lake , and then -- oh , then ! ' '
O Eliza , ' said George , holding her fast , ` that is just it .
To be so near liberty , to be almost in sight of it -- and then if we lost it .
O Eliza , I should die . '
` Do n't fear , ' said Eliza hopefully .
` The good Lord would not have brought us so far if He did n't mean to save us .
I seem to feel him with us , George . '
So George kissed his wife and took heart again .
Then the kind old lady brought Harry in dressed as a little girl .
And a very pretty girl he made too .
They called him ` Harriet , ' as it was so like Harry it was easy to remember .
Harry did not know his mamma , dressed as she was , and clung to the kind lady , feeling rather afraid of the strange young man .
That was just as well , as he was too young to understand what this dressing-up and pretending meant , and he might have spoiled it all by calling the nice-looking young man ` Mamma . '
So the kind lady was going with them , pretending to be the little girl 's aunt .
When everything was ready they got into a cab , and drove to the wharf .
The two young men , as they seemed to be , got out , Eliza helping the kind lady and little girl , while George saw to the luggage .
As he was standing at the office , taking the tickets , George overheard two men talking by his side .
` I 've watched every one that came on board , ' said one , ` and I know they are not on this boat . '
` You would scarcely know the woman from a white one , ' said the other .
` The man is very fair too .
He has an H burned into the palm of his hand . '
The hand with which George was taking the tickets and change trembled a little , but he turned calmly round , looked straight at the speaker , and then walked slowly away to where Eliza was waiting for him .
It was a terribly anxious time , but at last the bell rang , the boat began to move , and George and Eliza drew long sighs of relief as they saw the shore getting farther and farther away .
It was a lovely day .
The blue waves of Lake Erie danced , rippling and sparkling , in the sunlight .
Hour after hour the boat steamed on .
Night came ; and in the morning , clear and beautiful before them , rose the shores of Canada .
George and his wife stood arm in arm as the boat came near the little town , where they were going to land .
His breath came thick and short ; a mist gathered before his eyes ; he silently pressed the little hand that lay trembling on his arm .
The bell rang -- the boat stopped .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Scarcely seeing what he did , George looked out his luggage , and gathered his little party .
They were landed on the shore , and stood still till the boat had started again .
Then with tears of joy , the husband and wife , with their wondering little boy in their arms , knelt down and lifted up their hearts to God .
They were free .
CHAPTER XIX UNCLE TOM FINDS FREEDOM The letter which Miss Ophelia wrote to Mrs. Shelby , telling her that Tom was to be sold again , was delayed a long time in the post .
When at last it did arrive , Mr. Shelby was very ill , and though Mrs. Shelby felt dreadfully sorry about Uncle Tom , she could do nothing , as her husband was so ill .
Soon Mr. Shelby died .
Mrs. Shelby was very sad , but in her sorrow she did not forget her promise to Aunt Chloe and Uncle Tom .
As soon as she could , she sold some land , and George Shelby , taking the money with him , went off to try to find Uncle Tom and buy him back again .
But by the time George Shelby , came to the place where Mr. St. Clare used to live , Uncle Tom had been sold to Legree , and no one knew where he had gone .
At last , after searching about for months , George Shelby found out where Uncle Tom was , and followed him .
Two days after Legree had been so cruel , George Shelby drove up the avenue and stopped at the door of the old house . '
I hear , ' he said to Legree , ` that you bought a slave named Tom .
He used to belong to my father .
I have come to buy him back again . '
Legree 's face grew black with anger .
` Yes , I did buy such a fellow , ' he growled in rage .
` And a bad bargain it was , too !
The most rebellious , saucy , impudent dog !
Set up my niggers to run away .
He owned to it , and , when I bid him tell me where they were , he said he knew , but would n't tell .
He stuck to it , too , though I gave him the very worst beating I ever gave a nigger yet .
I believe he is trying to die .
I should n't wonder if he did . '
` Where is he ? '
said George .
` Let me see him . '
His cheeks were crimson , and his eye flashed fire at the thought that Legree had dared to treat dear Uncle Tom so badly .
` He is in that shed , ' said a little fellow who was holding George Shelby 's horse .
George , without saying another word , hurried to the place to which the little boy pointed .
As he entered the shed , his head felt giddy and his heart sick .
Uncle Tom lay on a heap of straw on the floor , still and quiet .
` Oh , dear Uncle Tom , ' cried George as he knelt beside him , ` dear Uncle Tom , do wake -- do speak once more .
Here 's Mas ' r George -- your own little Mas ' r George .
Do n't you know me ? '
` Mas ' r George ! '
said Tom , opening his eyes , and speaking in a feeble voice .
` Mas ' r George ?
it is -- it is .
It 's all I wanted .
They have n't forgot me .
It warms my soul ; it does my old heart good .
Now I shall die content . '
` You sha n't die !
you must n't die , nor think of it .
I 've come to buy you and take you home , ' said George , and the tears came into his eyes as he bent over poor Uncle Tom .
` Oh , Mas ' r George , ye 're too late .
The Lord has bought me , and is going to take me home . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Oh , do n't .
It breaks my heart to think of what you 've suffered -- lying in this old shed , too . '
` You must n't , now , tell Chloe , poor soul , how ye found me , ' said Tom , taking George by the hand .
` It would seem so dreadful to her .
Only tell her ye found me going into glory , and that I could n't stay for no one .
And oh , the poor chil ` en , and the baby -- my old heart 's been most broke for them .
Tell them to follow me .
Give my love to mas ` r , and dear , good missis , and everybody in the place .
I love them all . '
He closed his eyes , and with a smile he fell asleep .
Uncle Tom too was free .
Beyond the gates of Legree 's farm , George had noticed a dry , sandy knoll , shaded by a few trees .
There he made Uncle Tom 's grave .
No stone marks his last resting-place .
He needs none .
God knows where he lies .
Kneeling there George bent his head , in shame and sorrow .
` Here me , dear God , ' he said , ` from this day , I will do what one man can to drive out the curse of slavery from this land . '
CHAPTER XX GEORGE SHELBY FREES HIS SLAVES George Shelby wrote a little note to his mother , telling her that he was coming home .
He tried to write about Uncle Tom , but he could not ; tears blinded him , and sobs choked him .
On the day he was expected every one was in a state of bustle and excitement .
Aunt Chloe in a new print dress , and clean white apron walked round the supper-table , making sure that everything was right .
Her black face shone with joy at the thought of seeing Uncle Tom again .
` I 'm thinking my old man wo n't know the boys and the baby , ' she said .
Mrs. Shelby sighed .
Ever since the letter had come from George she had had a very sad heart .
She felt sure something must be wrong .
` He wo n't know the baby , my old man wo n't , ' said Chloe again , ` Why , it 's five years since they took him . '
Just then the sound of wheels was heard .
` It 's Mas ' r George , ' cried Aunt Chloe , running to the window in great excitement .
Mrs. Shelby ran to the door .
As George met her he put his arms round her , and kissed her tenderly .
Aunt Chloe stood behind anxiously looking out into the darkness .
` Oh , poor Aunt Chloe , ' said George , gently taking her hard , black hand between both his own .
` I 'd have given all my fortune to have brought Uncle Tom home with me ; but he has gone to a better country . '
Mrs. Shelby cried out as if she had been hurt , but Aunt Chloe did not make a sound .
In silence they went into the supper-room .
-LSB- Illustration :] ` There , ' said Aunt Chloe , holding out her trembling hands to her mistress , ` it 's just as I knew it would be .
He 's been sold and murdered on dem old plantations . '
Then she turned and walked proudly out of the room .
Mrs. Shelby followed her softly , took one of her hands , drew her down into a chair , and sat down beside her .
` My poor , good Chloe , ' she said gently .
Chloe leaned her head on her mistress 's shoulder , and sobbed out , ` Oh , missis , ` scuse me , my heart 's broke -- dat 's all . ' '
I know it is , ' said Mrs. Shelby , as her tears fell fast , ` and I can not heal it . '
There was silence for a little as they wept together .
Then George sat down beside Aunt Chloe , and took her hand .
He talked gently to her , telling her of Uncle Tom 's last loving messages .
So she was comforted a little .
One morning , about a month after this , George Shelby called all his servants together , telling them he had something to say to them .
They wondered what it could be , and were very much surprised when he appeared , carrying a bundle of papers in his hand .
They were still more astonished when he gave a paper to each one , and told them all that they were free .
With sobs and tears and shouts they pressed round him , thanking and blessing him .
But some of them came with anxious faces , begging him to take their free papers back again , and not to send them away .
` We do n't want to be any freer than we are , ' they said .
` We have always had all we wanted . '
` We do n't want to leave the old place , and young mas ' r and Missis , and the rest . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` My good friends , ' said George , when he could get silence , ` there will be no need for you to leave me .
We want quite as many servants as we did before .
But now you are free men and free women .
I shall pay you wages for your work , and if I die , or get into debt , you ca n't be taken away to be sold .
That is all the difference .
I want you all to stay with me , for I want to teach you how to live as free men and women ought . '
` One thing more , ' added George , when the cheering and rejoicing had died away a little .
` You all remember our good old Uncle Tom .
You have heard how he died , and how he sent his love to you all .
It was on his grave , my friends , that I made up my mind , with God 's help , never to own another slave , if it were possible to free him .
I resolved that nobody , through my fault , should ever run the risk of being parted from his dear ones , and of dying far from them , as he died .
` So , when you rejoice in your freedom , remember that you owe it to dear old Uncle Tom , and pay it back in kindness to his wife and children .
Think of your freedom every time you see Uncle Tom 's Cabin ; and let it help you to try to live as he did , and be as honest and faithful and Christian as he was . '
_BOOK_TITLE_ : James_Matthew_Barrie___Peter_Pan.txt.out
Chapter 1 PETER BREAKS THROUGH All children , except one , grow up .
They soon know that they will grow up , and the way Wendy knew was this .
One day when she was two years old she was playing in a garden , and she plucked another flower and ran with it to her mother .
I suppose she must have looked rather delightful , for Mrs. Darling put her hand to her heart and cried , `` Oh , why ca n't you remain like this for ever ! ''
This was all that passed between them on the subject , but henceforth Wendy knew that she must grow up .
You always know after you are two .
Two is the beginning of the end .
Of course they lived at 14 -LSB- their house number on their street -RSB- , and until Wendy came her mother was the chief one .
She was a lovely lady , with a romantic mind and such a sweet mocking mouth .
Her romantic mind was like the tiny boxes , one within the other , that come from the puzzling East , however many you discover there is always one more ; and her sweet mocking mouth had one kiss on it that Wendy could never get , though there it was , perfectly conspicuous in the right-hand corner .
The way Mr. Darling won her was this : the many gentlemen who had been boys when she was a girl discovered simultaneously that they loved her , and they all ran to her house to propose to her except Mr. Darling , who took a cab and nipped in first , and so he got her .
He got all of her , except the innermost box and the kiss .
He never knew about the box , and in time he gave up trying for the kiss .
Wendy thought Napoleon could have got it , but I can picture him trying , and then going off in a passion , slamming the door .
Mr. Darling used to boast to Wendy that her mother not only loved him but respected him .
He was one of those deep ones who know about stocks and shares .
Of course no one really knows , but he quite seemed to know , and he often said stocks were up and shares were down in a way that would have made any woman respect him .
Mrs. Darling was married in white , and at first she kept the books perfectly , almost gleefully , as if it were a game , not so much as a Brussels sprout was missing ; but by and by whole cauliflowers dropped out , and instead of them there were pictures of babies without faces .
She drew them when she should have been totting up .
They were Mrs. Darling 's guesses .
Wendy came first , then John , then Michael .
For a week or two after Wendy came it was doubtful whether they would be able to keep her , as she was another mouth to feed .
Mr. Darling was frightfully proud of her , but he was very honourable , and he sat on the edge of Mrs. Darling 's bed , holding her hand and calculating expenses , while she looked at him imploringly .
She wanted to risk it , come what might , but that was not his way ; his way was with a pencil and a piece of paper , and if she confused him with suggestions he had to begin at the beginning again .
`` Now do n't interrupt , '' he would beg of her .
`` I have one pound seventeen here , and two and six at the office ; I can cut off my coffee at the office , say ten shillings , making two nine and six , with your eighteen and three makes three nine seven , with five naught naught in my cheque-book makes eight nine seven -- who is that moving ?
-- eight nine seven , dot and carry seven -- do n't speak , my own -- and the pound you lent to that man who came to the door -- quiet , child -- dot and carry child -- there , you 've done it !
-- did I say nine nine seven ?
yes , I said nine nine seven ; the question is , can we try it for a year on nine nine seven ? ''
`` Of course we can , George , '' she cried .
But she was prejudiced in Wendy 's favour , and he was really the grander character of the two .
`` Remember mumps , '' he warned her almost threateningly , and off he went again .
`` Mumps one pound , that is what I have put down , but I daresay it will be more like thirty shillings -- do n't speak -- measles one five , German measles half a guinea , makes two fifteen six -- do n't waggle your finger -- whooping-cough , say fifteen shillings '' -- and so on it went , and it added up differently each time ; but at last Wendy just got through , with mumps reduced to twelve six , and the two kinds of measles treated as one .
There was the same excitement over John , and Michael had even a narrower squeak ; but both were kept , and soon , you might have seen the three of them going in a row to Miss Fulsom 's Kindergarten school , accompanied by their nurse .
Mrs. Darling loved to have everything just so , and Mr. Darling had a passion for being exactly like his neighbours ; so , of course , they had a nurse .
As they were poor , owing to the amount of milk the children drank , this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog , called Nana , who had belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings engaged her .
She had always thought children important , however , and the Darlings had become acquainted with her in Kensington Gardens , where she spent most of her spare time peeping into perambulators , and was much hated by careless nursemaids , whom she followed to their homes and complained of to their mistresses .
She proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse .
How thorough she was at bath-time , and up at any moment of the night if one of her charges made the slightest cry .
Of course her kennel was in the nursery .
She had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have no patience with and when it needs stocking around your throat .
She believed to her last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb leaf , and made sounds of contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germs , and so on .
It was a lesson in propriety to see her escorting the children to school , walking sedately by their side when they were well behaved , and butting them back into line if they strayed .
On John 's footer -LSB- in England soccer was called football , `` footer '' for short -RSB- days she never once forgot his sweater , and she usually carried an umbrella in her mouth in case of rain .
There is a room in the basement of Miss Fulsom 's school where the nurses wait .
They sat on forms , while Nana lay on the floor , but that was the only difference .
They affected to ignore her as of an inferior social status to themselves , and she despised their light talk .
She resented visits to the nursery from Mrs. Darling 's friends , but if they did come she first whipped off Michael 's pinafore and put him into the one with blue braiding , and smoothed out Wendy and made a dash at John 's hair .
No nursery could possibly have been conducted more correctly , and Mr. Darling knew it , yet he sometimes wondered uneasily whether the neighbours talked .
He had his position in the city to consider .
Nana also troubled him in another way .
He had sometimes a feeling that she did not admire him .
`` I know she admires you tremendously , George , '' Mrs. Darling would assure him , and then she would sign to the children to be specially nice to father .
Lovely dances followed , in which the only other servant , Liza , was sometimes allowed to join .
Such a midget she looked in her long skirt and maid 's cap , though she had sworn , when engaged , that she would never see ten again .
The gaiety of those romps !
And gayest of all was Mrs. Darling , who would pirouette so wildly that all you could see of her was the kiss , and then if you had dashed at her you might have got it .
There never was a simpler happier family until the coming of Peter Pan .
Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her children 's minds .
It is the nightly custom of every good mother after her children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things straight for next morning , repacking into their proper places the many articles that have wandered during the day .
If you could keep awake -LRB- but of course you ca n't -RRB- you would see your own mother doing this , and you would find it very interesting to watch her .
It is quite like tidying up drawers .
You would see her on her knees , I expect , lingering humorously over some of your contents , wondering where on earth you had picked this thing up , making discoveries sweet and not so sweet , pressing this to her cheek as if it were as nice as a kitten , and hurriedly stowing that out of sight .
When you wake in the morning , the naughtiness and evil passions with which you went to bed have been folded up small and placed at the bottom of your mind and on the top , beautifully aired , are spread out your prettier thoughts , ready for you to put on .
I do n't know whether you have ever seen a map of a person 's mind .
Doctors sometimes draw maps of other parts of you , and your own map can become intensely interesting , but catch them trying to draw a map of a child 's mind , which is not only confused , but keeps going round all the time .
There are zigzag lines on it , just like your temperature on a card , and these are probably roads in the island , for the Neverland is always more or less an island , with astonishing splashes of colour here and there , and coral reefs and rakish-looking craft in the offing , and savages and lonely lairs , and gnomes who are mostly tailors , and caves through which a river runs , and princes with six elder brothers , and a hut fast going to decay , and one very small old lady with a hooked nose .
It would be an easy map if that were all , but there is also first day at school , religion , fathers , the round pond , needle-work , murders , hangings , verbs that take the dative , chocolate pudding day , getting into braces , say ninety-nine , three-pence for pulling out your tooth yourself , and so on , and either these are part of the island or they are another map showing through , and it is all rather confusing , especially as nothing will stand still .
Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal .
John 's , for instance , had a lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which John was shooting , while Michael , who was very small , had a flamingo with lagoons flying over it .
John lived in a boat turned upside down on the sands , Michael in a wigwam , Wendy in a house of leaves deftly sewn together .
John had no friends , Michael had friends at night , Wendy had a pet wolf forsaken by its parents , but on the whole the Neverlands have a family resemblance , and if they stood still in a row you could say of them that they have each other 's nose , and so forth .
On these magic shores children at play are for ever beaching their coracles -LSB- simple boat -RSB- .
We too have been there ; we can still hear the sound of the surf , though we shall land no more .
Of all delectable islands the Neverland is the snuggest and most compact , not large and sprawly , you know , with tedious distances between one adventure and another , but nicely crammed .
When you play at it by day with the chairs and table-cloth , it is not in the least alarming , but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it becomes very real .
That is why there are night-lights .
Occasionally in her travels through her children 's minds Mrs. Darling found things she could not understand , and of these quite the most perplexing was the word Peter .
She knew of no Peter , and yet he was here and there in John and Michael 's minds , while Wendy 's began to be scrawled all over with him .
The name stood out in bolder letters than any of the other words , and as Mrs. Darling gazed she felt that it had an oddly cocky appearance .
`` Yes , he is rather cocky , '' Wendy admitted with regret .
Her mother had been questioning her .
`` But who is he , my pet ? ''
`` He is Peter Pan , you know , mother . ''
At first Mrs. Darling did not know , but after thinking back into her childhood she just remembered a Peter Pan who was said to live with the fairies .
There were odd stories about him , as that when children died he went part of the way with them , so that they should not be frightened .
She had believed in him at the time , but now that she was married and full of sense she quite doubted whether there was any such person .
`` Besides , '' she said to Wendy , `` he would be grown up by this time . ''
`` Oh no , he is n't grown up , '' Wendy assured her confidently , `` and he is just my size . ''
She meant that he was her size in both mind and body ; she did n't know how she knew , she just knew it .
Mrs. Darling consulted Mr. Darling , but he smiled pooh-pooh .
`` Mark my words , '' he said , `` it is some nonsense Nana has been putting into their heads ; just the sort of idea a dog would have .
Leave it alone , and it will blow over . ''
But it would not blow over and soon the troublesome boy gave Mrs. Darling quite a shock .
Children have the strangest adventures without being troubled by them .
For instance , they may remember to mention , a week after the event happened , that when they were in the wood they had met their dead father and had a game with him .
It was in this casual way that Wendy one morning made a disquieting revelation .
Some leaves of a tree had been found on the nursery floor , which certainly were not there when the children went to bed , and Mrs. Darling was puzzling over them when Wendy said with a tolerant smile : `` I do believe it is that Peter again ! ''
`` Whatever do you mean , Wendy ? ''
`` It is so naughty of him not to wipe his feet , '' Wendy said , sighing .
She was a tidy child .
She explained in quite a matter-of-fact way that she thought Peter sometimes came to the nursery in the night and sat on the foot of her bed and played on his pipes to her .
Unfortunately she never woke , so she did n't know how she knew , she just knew .
`` What nonsense you talk , precious .
No one can get into the house without knocking . ''
`` I think he comes in by the window , '' she said .
`` My love , it is three floors up . ''
`` Were not the leaves at the foot of the window , mother ? ''
It was quite true ; the leaves had been found very near the window .
Mrs. Darling did not know what to think , for it all seemed so natural to Wendy that you could not dismiss it by saying she had been dreaming .
`` My child , '' the mother cried , `` why did you not tell me of this before ? ''
`` I forgot , '' said Wendy lightly .
She was in a hurry to get her breakfast .
Oh , surely she must have been dreaming .
But , on the other hand , there were the leaves .
Mrs. Darling examined them very carefully ; they were skeleton leaves , but she was sure they did not come from any tree that grew in England .
She crawled about the floor , peering at it with a candle for marks of a strange foot .
She rattled the poker up the chimney and tapped the walls .
She let down a tape from the window to the pavement , and it was a sheer drop of thirty feet , without so much as a spout to climb up by .
Certainly Wendy had been dreaming .
But Wendy had not been dreaming , as the very next night showed , the night on which the extraordinary adventures of these children may be said to have begun .
On the night we speak of all the children were once more in bed .
It happened to be Nana 's evening off , and Mrs. Darling had bathed them and sung to them till one by one they had let go her hand and slid away into the land of sleep .
All were looking so safe and cosy that she smiled at her fears now and sat down tranquilly by the fire to sew .
It was something for Michael , who on his birthday was getting into shirts .
The fire was warm , however , and the nursery dimly lit by three night-lights , and presently the sewing lay on Mrs. Darling 's lap .
Then her head nodded , oh , so gracefully .
She was asleep .
Look at the four of them , Wendy and Michael over there , John here , and Mrs. Darling by the fire .
There should have been a fourth night-light .
While she slept she had a dream .
She dreamt that the Neverland had come too near and that a strange boy had broken through from it .
He did not alarm her , for she thought she had seen him before in the faces of many women who have no children .
Perhaps he is to be found in the faces of some mothers also .
But in her dream he had rent the film that obscures the Neverland , and she saw Wendy and John and Michael peeping through the gap .
The dream by itself would have been a trifle , but while she was dreaming the window of the nursery blew open , and a boy did drop on the floor .
He was accompanied by a strange light , no bigger than your fist , which darted about the room like a living thing and I think it must have been this light that wakened Mrs. Darling .
She started up with a cry , and saw the boy , and somehow she knew at once that he was Peter Pan .
If you or I or Wendy had been there we should have seen that he was very like Mrs. Darling 's kiss .
He was a lovely boy , clad in skeleton leaves and the juices that ooze out of trees but the most entrancing thing about him was that he had all his first teeth .
When he saw she was a grown-up , he gnashed the little pearls at her .
Chapter 2 THE SHADOW Mrs. Darling screamed , and , as if in answer to a bell , the door opened , and Nana entered , returned from her evening out .
She growled and sprang at the boy , who leapt lightly through the window .
Again Mrs. Darling screamed , this time in distress for him , for she thought he was killed , and she ran down into the street to look for his little body , but it was not there ; and she looked up , and in the black night she could see nothing but what she thought was a shooting star .
She returned to the nursery , and found Nana with something in her mouth , which proved to be the boy 's shadow .
As he leapt at the window Nana had closed it quickly , too late to catch him , but his shadow had not had time to get out ; slam went the window and snapped it off .
You may be sure Mrs. Darling examined the shadow carefully , but it was quite the ordinary kind .
Nana had no doubt of what was the best thing to do with this shadow .
She hung it out at the window , meaning `` He is sure to come back for it ; let us put it where he can get it easily without disturbing the children . ''
But unfortunately Mrs. Darling could not leave it hanging out at the window , it looked so like the washing and lowered the whole tone of the house .
She thought of showing it to Mr. Darling , but he was totting up winter great-coats for John and Michael , with a wet towel around his head to keep his brain clear , and it seemed a shame to trouble him ; besides , she knew exactly what he would say : `` It all comes of having a dog for a nurse . ''
She decided to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a drawer , until a fitting opportunity came for telling her husband .
Ah me !
The opportunity came a week later , on that never-to-be-forgotten Friday .
Of course it was a Friday .
`` I ought to have been specially careful on a Friday , '' she used to say afterwards to her husband , while perhaps Nana was on the other side of her , holding her hand .
`` No , no , '' Mr. Darling always said , `` I am responsible for it all .
I , George Darling , did it .
MEA CULPA , MEA CULPA . ''
He had had a classical education .
They sat thus night after night recalling that fatal Friday , till every detail of it was stamped on their brains and came through on the other side like the faces on a bad coinage .
`` If only I had not accepted that invitation to dine at 27 , '' Mrs. Darling said .
`` If only I had not poured my medicine into Nana 's bowl , '' said Mr. Darling .
`` If only I had pretended to like the medicine , '' was what Nana 's wet eyes said .
`` My liking for parties , George . ''
`` My fatal gift of humour , dearest . ''
`` My touchiness about trifles , dear master and mistress . ''
Then one or more of them would break down altogether ; Nana at the thought , `` It 's true , it 's true , they ought not to have had a dog for a nurse . ''
Many a time it was Mr. Darling who put the handkerchief to Nana 's eyes .
`` That fiend ! ''
Mr. Darling would cry , and Nana 's bark was the echo of it , but Mrs. Darling never upbraided Peter ; there was something in the right-hand corner of her mouth that wanted her not to call Peter names .
They would sit there in the empty nursery , recalling fondly every smallest detail of that dreadful evening .
It had begun so uneventfully , so precisely like a hundred other evenings , with Nana putting on the water for Michael 's bath and carrying him to it on her back .
`` I wo n't go to bed , '' he had shouted , like one who still believed that he had the last word on the subject , `` I wo n't , I wo n't .
Nana , it is n't six o'clock yet .
Oh dear , oh dear , I sha n't love you any more , Nana .
I tell you I wo n't be bathed , I wo n't , I wo n't ! ''
Then Mrs. Darling had come in , wearing her white evening-gown .
She had dressed early because Wendy so loved to see her in her evening-gown , with the necklace George had given her .
She was wearing Wendy 's bracelet on her arm ; she had asked for the loan of it .
Wendy loved to lend her bracelet to her mother .
She had found her two older children playing at being herself and father on the occasion of Wendy 's birth , and John was saying : `` I am happy to inform you , Mrs. Darling , that you are now a mother , '' in just such a tone as Mr. Darling himself may have used on the real occasion .
Wendy had danced with joy , just as the real Mrs. Darling must have done .
Then John was born , with the extra pomp that he conceived due to the birth of a male , and Michael came from his bath to ask to be born also , but John said brutally that they did not want any more .
Michael had nearly cried .
`` Nobody wants me , '' he said , and of course the lady in the evening-dress could not stand that .
`` I do , '' she said , `` I so want a third child . ''
`` Boy or girl ? ''
asked Michael , not too hopefully .
`` Boy . ''
Then he had leapt into her arms .
Such a little thing for Mr. and Mrs. Darling and Nana to recall now , but not so little if that was to be Michael 's last night in the nursery .
They go on with their recollections .
`` It was then that I rushed in like a tornado , was n't it ? ''
Mr. Darling would say , scorning himself ; and indeed he had been like a tornado .
Perhaps there was some excuse for him .
He , too , had been dressing for the party , and all had gone well with him until he came to his tie .
It is an astounding thing to have to tell , but this man , though he knew about stocks and shares , had no real mastery of his tie .
Sometimes the thing yielded to him without a contest , but there were occasions when it would have been better for the house if he had swallowed his pride and used a made-up tie .
This was such an occasion .
He came rushing into the nursery with the crumpled little brute of a tie in his hand .
`` Why , what is the matter , father dear ? ''
`` Matter ! ''
he yelled ; he really yelled .
`` This tie , it will not tie . ''
He became dangerously sarcastic .
`` Not round my neck !
Round the bed-post !
Oh yes , twenty times have I made it up round the bed-post , but round my neck , no !
Oh dear no !
begs to be excused ! ''
He thought Mrs. Darling was not sufficiently impressed , and he went on sternly , `` I warn you of this , mother , that unless this tie is round my neck we do n't go out to dinner to-night , and if I do n't go out to dinner to-night , I never go to the office again , and if I do n't go to the office again , you and I starve , and our children will be flung into the streets . ''
Even then Mrs. Darling was placid .
`` Let me try , dear , '' she said , and indeed that was what he had come to ask her to do , and with her nice cool hands she tied his tie for him , while the children stood around to see their fate decided .
Some men would have resented her being able to do it so easily , but Mr. Darling had far too fine a nature for that ; he thanked her carelessly , at once forgot his rage , and in another moment was dancing round the room with Michael on his back .
`` How wildly we romped ! ''
says Mrs. Darling now , recalling it .
`` Our last romp ! ''
Mr. Darling groaned .
`` O George , do you remember Michael suddenly said to me , ` How did you get to know me , mother ? ' ''
`` I remember ! ''
`` They were rather sweet , do n't you think , George ? ''
`` And they were ours , ours !
and now they are gone . ''
The romp had ended with the appearance of Nana , and most unluckily Mr. Darling collided against her , covering his trousers with hairs .
They were not only new trousers , but they were the first he had ever had with braid on them , and he had had to bite his lip to prevent the tears coming .
Of course Mrs. Darling brushed him , but he began to talk again about its being a mistake to have a dog for a nurse .
`` George , Nana is a treasure . ''
`` No doubt , but I have an uneasy feeling at times that she looks upon the children as puppies . ''
`` Oh no , dear one , I feel sure she knows they have souls . ''
`` I wonder , '' Mr. Darling said thoughtfully , `` I wonder . ''
It was an opportunity , his wife felt , for telling him about the boy .
At first he pooh-poohed the story , but he became thoughtful when she showed him the shadow .
`` It is nobody I know , '' he said , examining it carefully , `` but it does look a scoundrel . ''
`` We were still discussing it , you remember , '' says Mr. Darling , `` when Nana came in with Michael 's medicine .
You will never carry the bottle in your mouth again , Nana , and it is all my fault . ''
Strong man though he was , there is no doubt that he had behaved rather foolishly over the medicine .
If he had a weakness , it was for thinking that all his life he had taken medicine boldly , and so now , when Michael dodged the spoon in Nana 's mouth , he had said reprovingly , `` Be a man , Michael . ''
`` Wo n't ; wo n't ! ''
Michael cried naughtily .
Mrs. Darling left the room to get a chocolate for him , and Mr. Darling thought this showed want of firmness .
`` Mother , do n't pamper him , '' he called after her .
`` Michael , when I was your age I took medicine without a murmur .
I said , ` Thank you , kind parents , for giving me bottles to make me well . ' ''
He really thought this was true , and Wendy , who was now in her night-gown , believed it also , and she said , to encourage Michael , `` That medicine you sometimes take , father , is much nastier , is n't it ? ''
`` Ever so much nastier , '' Mr. Darling said bravely , `` and I would take it now as an example to you , Michael , if I had n't lost the bottle . ''
He had not exactly lost it ; he had climbed in the dead of night to the top of the wardrobe and hidden it there .
What he did not know was that the faithful Liza had found it , and put it back on his wash-stand .
`` I know where it is , father , '' Wendy cried , always glad to be of service .
`` I 'll bring it , '' and she was off before he could stop her .
Immediately his spirits sank in the strangest way .
`` John , '' he said , shuddering , `` it 's most beastly stuff .
It 's that nasty , sticky , sweet kind . ''
`` It will soon be over , father , '' John said cheerily , and then in rushed Wendy with the medicine in a glass .
`` I have been as quick as I could , '' she panted .
`` You have been wonderfully quick , '' her father retorted , with a vindictive politeness that was quite thrown away upon her .
`` Michael first , '' he said doggedly .
`` Father first , '' said Michael , who was of a suspicious nature .
`` I shall be sick , you know , '' Mr. Darling said threateningly .
`` Come on , father , '' said John .
`` Hold your tongue , John , '' his father rapped out .
Wendy was quite puzzled .
`` I thought you took it quite easily , father . ''
`` That is not the point , '' he retorted .
`` The point is , that there is more in my glass than in Michael 's spoon . ''
His proud heart was nearly bursting .
`` And it is n't fair : I would say it though it were with my last breath ; it is n't fair . ''
`` Father , I am waiting , '' said Michael coldly .
`` It 's all very well to say you are waiting ; so am I waiting . ''
`` Father 's a cowardly custard . ''
`` So are you a cowardly custard . ''
`` I 'm not frightened . ''
`` Neither am I frightened . ''
`` Well , then , take it . ''
`` Well , then , you take it . ''
Wendy had a splendid idea .
`` Why not both take it at the same time ? ''
`` Certainly , '' said Mr. Darling .
`` Are you ready , Michael ? ''
Wendy gave the words , one , two , three , and Michael took his medicine , but Mr. Darling slipped his behind his back .
There was a yell of rage from Michael , and `` O father ! ''
Wendy exclaimed .
`` What do you mean by ' O father ' ? ''
Mr. Darling demanded .
`` Stop that row , Michael .
I meant to take mine , but I -- I missed it . ''
It was dreadful the way all the three were looking at him , just as if they did not admire him .
`` Look here , all of you , '' he said entreatingly , as soon as Nana had gone into the bathroom .
`` I have just thought of a splendid joke .
I shall pour my medicine into Nana 's bowl , and she will drink it , thinking it is milk ! ''
It was the colour of milk ; but the children did not have their father 's sense of humour , and they looked at him reproachfully as he poured the medicine into Nana 's bowl .
`` What fun ! ''
he said doubtfully , and they did not dare expose him when Mrs. Darling and Nana returned .
`` Nana , good dog , '' he said , patting her , `` I have put a little milk into your bowl , Nana . ''
Nana wagged her tail , ran to the medicine , and began lapping it .
Then she gave Mr. Darling such a look , not an angry look : she showed him the great red tear that makes us so sorry for noble dogs , and crept into her kennel .
Mr. Darling was frightfully ashamed of himself , but he would not give in .
In a horrid silence Mrs. Darling smelt the bowl .
`` O George , '' she said , `` it 's your medicine ! ''
`` It was only a joke , '' he roared , while she comforted her boys , and Wendy hugged Nana .
`` Much good , '' he said bitterly , `` my wearing myself to the bone trying to be funny in this house . ''
And still Wendy hugged Nana .
`` That 's right , '' he shouted .
`` Coddle her !
Nobody coddles me .
Oh dear no !
I am only the breadwinner , why should I be coddled -- why , why , why ! ''
`` George , '' Mrs. Darling entreated him , `` not so loud ; the servants will hear you . ''
Somehow they had got into the way of calling Liza the servants .
`` Let them ! ''
he answered recklessly .
`` Bring in the whole world .
But I refuse to allow that dog to lord it in my nursery for an hour longer . ''
The children wept , and Nana ran to him beseechingly , but he waved her back .
He felt he was a strong man again .
`` In vain , in vain , '' he cried ; `` the proper place for you is the yard , and there you go to be tied up this instant . ''
`` George , George , '' Mrs. Darling whispered , `` remember what I told you about that boy . ''
Alas , he would not listen .
He was determined to show who was master in that house , and when commands would not draw Nana from the kennel , he lured her out of it with honeyed words , and seizing her roughly , dragged her from the nursery .
He was ashamed of himself , and yet he did it .
It was all owing to his too affectionate nature , which craved for admiration .
When he had tied her up in the back-yard , the wretched father went and sat in the passage , with his knuckles to his eyes .
In the meantime Mrs. Darling had put the children to bed in unwonted silence and lit their night-lights .
They could hear Nana barking , and John whimpered , `` It is because he is chaining her up in the yard , '' but Wendy was wiser .
`` That is not Nana 's unhappy bark , '' she said , little guessing what was about to happen ; `` that is her bark when she smells danger . ''
Danger !
`` Are you sure , Wendy ? ''
`` Oh , yes . ''
Mrs. Darling quivered and went to the window .
It was securely fastened .
She looked out , and the night was peppered with stars .
They were crowding round the house , as if curious to see what was to take place there , but she did not notice this , nor that one or two of the smaller ones winked at her .
Yet a nameless fear clutched at her heart and made her cry , `` Oh , how I wish that I was n't going to a party to-night ! ''
Even Michael , already half asleep , knew that she was perturbed , and he asked , `` Can anything harm us , mother , after the night-lights are lit ? ''
`` Nothing , precious , '' she said ; `` they are the eyes a mother leaves behind her to guard her children . ''
She went from bed to bed singing enchantments over them , and little Michael flung his arms round her .
`` Mother , '' he cried , `` I 'm glad of you . ''
They were the last words she was to hear from him for a long time .
No. 27 was only a few yards distant , but there had been a slight fall of snow , and Father and Mother Darling picked their way over it deftly not to soil their shoes .
They were already the only persons in the street , and all the stars were watching them .
Stars are beautiful , but they may not take an active part in anything , they must just look on for ever .
It is a punishment put on them for something they did so long ago that no star now knows what it was .
So the older ones have become glassy-eyed and seldom speak -LRB- winking is the star language -RRB- , but the little ones still wonder .
They are not really friendly to Peter , who had a mischievous way of stealing up behind them and trying to blow them out ; but they are so fond of fun that they were on his side to-night , and anxious to get the grown-ups out of the way .
So as soon as the door of 27 closed on Mr. and Mrs. Darling there was a commotion in the firmament , and the smallest of all the stars in the Milky Way screamed out : `` Now , Peter ! ''
Chapter 3 COME AWAY , COME AWAY !
For a moment after Mr. and Mrs. Darling left the house the night-lights by the beds of the three children continued to burn clearly .
They were awfully nice little night-lights , and one can not help wishing that they could have kept awake to see Peter ; but Wendy 's light blinked and gave such a yawn that the other two yawned also , and before they could close their mouths all the three went out .
There was another light in the room now , a thousand times brighter than the night-lights , and in the time we have taken to say this , it had been in all the drawers in the nursery , looking for Peter 's shadow , rummaged the wardrobe and turned every pocket inside out .
It was not really a light ; it made this light by flashing about so quickly , but when it came to rest for a second you saw it was a fairy , no longer than your hand , but still growing .
It was a girl called Tinker Bell exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf , cut low and square , through which her figure could be seen to the best advantage .
She was slightly inclined to EMBONPOINT .
-LSB- plump hourglass figure -RSB- A moment after the fairy 's entrance the window was blown open by the breathing of the little stars , and Peter dropped in .
He had carried Tinker Bell part of the way , and his hand was still messy with the fairy dust .
`` Tinker Bell , '' he called softly , after making sure that the children were asleep , `` Tink , where are you ? ''
She was in a jug for the moment , and liking it extremely ; she had never been in a jug before .
`` Oh , do come out of that jug , and tell me , do you know where they put my shadow ? ''
The loveliest tinkle as of golden bells answered him .
It is the fairy language .
You ordinary children can never hear it , but if you were to hear it you would know that you had heard it once before .
Tink said that the shadow was in the big box .
She meant the chest of drawers , and Peter jumped at the drawers , scattering their contents to the floor with both hands , as kings toss ha ` pence to the crowd .
In a moment he had recovered his shadow , and in his delight he forgot that he had shut Tinker Bell up in the drawer .
If he thought at all , but I do n't believe he ever thought , it was that he and his shadow , when brought near each other , would join like drops of water , and when they did not he was appalled .
He tried to stick it on with soap from the bathroom , but that also failed .
A shudder passed through Peter , and he sat on the floor and cried .
His sobs woke Wendy , and she sat up in bed .
She was not alarmed to see a stranger crying on the nursery floor ; she was only pleasantly interested .
`` Boy , '' she said courteously , `` why are you crying ? ''
Peter could be exceeding polite also , having learned the grand manner at fairy ceremonies , and he rose and bowed to her beautifully .
She was much pleased , and bowed beautifully to him from the bed .
`` What 's your name ? ''
he asked .
`` Wendy Moira Angela Darling , '' she replied with some satisfaction .
`` What is your name ? ''
`` Peter Pan . ''
She was already sure that he must be Peter , but it did seem a comparatively short name .
`` Is that all ? ''
`` Yes , '' he said rather sharply .
He felt for the first time that it was a shortish name .
`` I 'm so sorry , '' said Wendy Moira Angela .
`` It does n't matter , '' Peter gulped .
She asked where he lived .
`` Second to the right , '' said Peter , `` and then straight on till morning . ''
`` What a funny address ! ''
Peter had a sinking .
For the first time he felt that perhaps it was a funny address .
`` No , it is n't , '' he said .
`` I mean , '' Wendy said nicely , remembering that she was hostess , `` is that what they put on the letters ? ''
He wished she had not mentioned letters .
`` Do n't get any letters , '' he said contemptuously .
`` But your mother gets letters ? ''
`` Do n't have a mother , '' he said .
Not only had he no mother , but he had not the slightest desire to have one .
He thought them very over-rated persons .
Wendy , however , felt at once that she was in the presence of a tragedy .
`` O Peter , no wonder you were crying , '' she said , and got out of bed and ran to him .
`` I was n't crying about mothers , '' he said rather indignantly .
`` I was crying because I ca n't get my shadow to stick on .
Besides , I was n't crying . ''
`` It has come off ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Then Wendy saw the shadow on the floor , looking so draggled , and she was frightfully sorry for Peter .
`` How awful ! ''
she said , but she could not help smiling when she saw that he had been trying to stick it on with soap .
How exactly like a boy !
Fortunately she knew at once what to do .
`` It must be sewn on , '' she said , just a little patronisingly .
`` What 's sewn ? ''
he asked .
`` You 're dreadfully ignorant . ''
`` No , I 'm not . ''
But she was exulting in his ignorance .
`` I shall sew it on for you , my little man , '' she said , though he was tall as herself , and she got out her housewife -LSB- sewing bag -RSB- , and sewed the shadow on to Peter 's foot .
`` I daresay it will hurt a little , '' she warned him .
`` Oh , I sha n't cry , '' said Peter , who was already of the opinion that he had never cried in his life .
And he clenched his teeth and did not cry , and soon his shadow was behaving properly , though still a little creased .
`` Perhaps I should have ironed it , '' Wendy said thoughtfully , but Peter , boylike , was indifferent to appearances , and he was now jumping about in the wildest glee .
Alas , he had already forgotten that he owed his bliss to Wendy .
He thought he had attached the shadow himself .
`` How clever I am ! ''
he crowed rapturously , `` oh , the cleverness of me ! ''
It is humiliating to have to confess that this conceit of Peter was one of his most fascinating qualities .
To put it with brutal frankness , there never was a cockier boy .
But for the moment Wendy was shocked .
`` You conceit -LSB- braggart -RSB- , '' she exclaimed , with frightful sarcasm ; `` of course I did nothing ! ''
`` You did a little , '' Peter said carelessly , and continued to dance .
`` A little ! ''
she replied with hauteur -LSB- pride -RSB- ; `` if I am no use I can at least withdraw , '' and she sprang in the most dignified way into bed and covered her face with the blankets .
To induce her to look up he pretended to be going away , and when this failed he sat on the end of the bed and tapped her gently with his foot .
`` Wendy , '' he said , `` do n't withdraw .
I ca n't help crowing , Wendy , when I 'm pleased with myself . ''
Still she would not look up , though she was listening eagerly .
`` Wendy , '' he continued , in a voice that no woman has ever yet been able to resist , `` Wendy , one girl is more use than twenty boys . ''
Now Wendy was every inch a woman , though there were not very many inches , and she peeped out of the bed-clothes .
`` Do you really think so , Peter ? ''
`` Yes , I do . ''
`` I think it 's perfectly sweet of you , '' she declared , `` and I 'll get up again , '' and she sat with him on the side of the bed .
She also said she would give him a kiss if he liked , but Peter did not know what she meant , and he held out his hand expectantly .
`` Surely you know what a kiss is ? ''
she asked , aghast .
`` I shall know when you give it to me , '' he replied stiffly , and not to hurt his feeling she gave him a thimble .
`` Now , '' said he , `` shall I give you a kiss ? ''
and she replied with a slight primness , `` If you please . ''
She made herself rather cheap by inclining her face toward him , but he merely dropped an acorn button into her hand , so she slowly returned her face to where it had been before , and said nicely that she would wear his kiss on the chain around her neck .
It was lucky that she did put it on that chain , for it was afterwards to save her life .
When people in our set are introduced , it is customary for them to ask each other 's age , and so Wendy , who always liked to do the correct thing , asked Peter how old he was .
It was not really a happy question to ask him ; it was like an examination paper that asks grammar , when what you want to be asked is Kings of England .
`` I do n't know , '' he replied uneasily , `` but I am quite young . ''
He really knew nothing about it , he had merely suspicions , but he said at a venture , `` Wendy , I ran away the day I was born . ''
Wendy was quite surprised , but interested ; and she indicated in the charming drawing-room manner , by a touch on her night-gown , that he could sit nearer her .
`` It was because I heard father and mother , '' he explained in a low voice , `` talking about what I was to be when I became a man . ''
He was extraordinarily agitated now .
`` I do n't want ever to be a man , '' he said with passion .
`` I want always to be a little boy and to have fun .
So I ran away to Kensington Gardens and lived a long long time among the fairies . ''
She gave him a look of the most intense admiration , and he thought it was because he had run away , but it was really because he knew fairies .
Wendy had lived such a home life that to know fairies struck her as quite delightful .
She poured out questions about them , to his surprise , for they were rather a nuisance to him , getting in his way and so on , and indeed he sometimes had to give them a hiding -LSB- spanking -RSB- .
Still , he liked them on the whole , and he told her about the beginning of fairies .
`` You see , Wendy , when the first baby laughed for the first time , its laugh broke into a thousand pieces , and they all went skipping about , and that was the beginning of fairies . ''
Tedious talk this , but being a stay-at-home she liked it .
`` And so , '' he went on good-naturedly , `` there ought to be one fairy for every boy and girl . ''
`` Ought to be ?
Is n't there ? ''
`` No .
You see children know such a lot now , they soon do n't believe in fairies , and every time a child says , ' I do n't believe in fairies , ' there is a fairy somewhere that falls down dead . ''
Really , he thought they had now talked enough about fairies , and it struck him that Tinker Bell was keeping very quiet .
`` I ca n't think where she has gone to , '' he said , rising , and he called Tink by name .
Wendy 's heart went flutter with a sudden thrill .
`` Peter , '' she cried , clutching him , `` you do n't mean to tell me that there is a fairy in this room ! ''
`` She was here just now , '' he said a little impatiently .
`` You do n't hear her , do you ? ''
and they both listened .
`` The only sound I hear , '' said Wendy , `` is like a tinkle of bells . ''
`` Well , that 's Tink , that 's the fairy language .
I think I hear her too . ''
The sound came from the chest of drawers , and Peter made a merry face .
No one could ever look quite so merry as Peter , and the loveliest of gurgles was his laugh .
He had his first laugh still .
`` Wendy , '' he whispered gleefully , `` I do believe I shut her up in the drawer ! ''
He let poor Tink out of the drawer , and she flew about the nursery screaming with fury .
`` You should n't say such things , '' Peter retorted .
`` Of course I 'm very sorry , but how could I know you were in the drawer ? ''
Wendy was not listening to him .
`` O Peter , '' she cried , `` if she would only stand still and let me see her ! ''
`` They hardly ever stand still , '' he said , but for one moment Wendy saw the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock .
`` O the lovely ! ''
she cried , though Tink 's face was still distorted with passion .
`` Tink , '' said Peter amiably , `` this lady says she wishes you were her fairy . ''
Tinker Bell answered insolently .
`` What does she say , Peter ? ''
He had to translate .
`` She is not very polite .
She says you are a great -LSB- huge -RSB- ugly girl , and that she is my fairy . ''
He tried to argue with Tink .
`` You know you ca n't be my fairy , Tink , because I am an gentleman and you are a lady . ''
To this Tink replied in these words , `` You silly ass , '' and disappeared into the bathroom .
`` She is quite a common fairy , '' Peter explained apologetically , `` she is called Tinker Bell because she mends the pots and kettles LSB tinker  tin worker RSB . ''
-LSB- Similar to `` cinder '' plus `` elle '' to get Cinderella -RSB- They were together in the armchair by this time , and Wendy plied him with more questions .
`` If you do n't live in Kensington Gardens now -- '' `` Sometimes I do still . ''
`` But where do you live mostly now ? ''
`` With the lost boys . ''
`` Who are they ? ''
`` They are the children who fall out of their perambulators when the nurse is looking the other way .
If they are not claimed in seven days they are sent far away to the Neverland to defray expenses .
I 'm captain . ''
`` What fun it must be ! ''
`` Yes , '' said cunning Peter , `` but we are rather lonely .
You see we have no female companionship . ''
`` Are none of the others girls ? ''
`` Oh , no ; girls , you know , are much too clever to fall out of their prams . ''
This flattered Wendy immensely .
`` I think , '' she said , `` it is perfectly lovely the way you talk about girls ; John there just despises us . ''
For reply Peter rose and kicked John out of bed , blankets and all ; one kick .
This seemed to Wendy rather forward for a first meeting , and she told him with spirit that he was not captain in her house .
However , John continued to sleep so placidly on the floor that she allowed him to remain there .
`` And I know you meant to be kind , '' she said , relenting , `` so you may give me a kiss . ''
For the moment she had forgotten his ignorance about kisses .
`` I thought you would want it back , '' he said a little bitterly , and offered to return her the thimble .
`` Oh dear , '' said the nice Wendy , `` I do n't mean a kiss , I mean a thimble . ''
`` What 's that ? ''
`` It 's like this . ''
She kissed him .
`` Funny ! ''
said Peter gravely .
`` Now shall I give you a thimble ? ''
`` If you wish to , '' said Wendy , keeping her head erect this time .
Peter thimbled her , and almost immediately she screeched .
`` What is it , Wendy ? ''
`` It was exactly as if someone were pulling my hair . ''
`` That must have been Tink .
I never knew her so naughty before . ''
And indeed Tink was darting about again , using offensive language .
`` She says she will do that to you , Wendy , every time I give you a thimble . ''
`` But why ? ''
`` Why , Tink ? ''
Again Tink replied , `` You silly ass . ''
Peter could not understand why , but Wendy understood , and she was just slightly disappointed when he admitted that he came to the nursery window not to see her but to listen to stories .
`` You see , I do n't know any stories .
None of the lost boys knows any stories . ''
`` How perfectly awful , '' Wendy said .
`` Do you know , '' Peter asked `` why swallows build in the eaves of houses ?
It is to listen to the stories .
O Wendy , your mother was telling you such a lovely story . ''
`` Which story was it ? ''
`` About the prince who could n't find the lady who wore the glass slipper . ''
`` Peter , '' said Wendy excitedly , `` that was Cinderella , and he found her , and they lived happily ever after . ''
Peter was so glad that he rose from the floor , where they had been sitting , and hurried to the window .
`` Where are you going ? ''
she cried with misgiving .
`` To tell the other boys . ''
`` Do n't go Peter , '' she entreated , `` I know such lots of stories . ''
Those were her precise words , so there can be no denying that it was she who first tempted him .
He came back , and there was a greedy look in his eyes now which ought to have alarmed her , but did not .
`` Oh , the stories I could tell to the boys ! ''
she cried , and then Peter gripped her and began to draw her toward the window .
`` Let me go ! ''
she ordered him .
`` Wendy , do come with me and tell the other boys . ''
Of course she was very pleased to be asked , but she said , `` Oh dear , I ca n't .
Think of mummy !
Besides , I ca n't fly . ''
`` I 'll teach you . ''
`` Oh , how lovely to fly . ''
`` I 'll teach you how to jump on the wind 's back , and then away we go . ''
`` Oo ! ''
she exclaimed rapturously .
`` Wendy , Wendy , when you are sleeping in your silly bed you might be flying about with me saying funny things to the stars . ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` And , Wendy , there are mermaids . ''
`` Mermaids !
With tails ? ''
`` Such long tails . ''
`` Oh , '' cried Wendy , `` to see a mermaid ! ''
He had become frightfully cunning .
`` Wendy , '' he said , `` how we should all respect you . ''
She was wriggling her body in distress .
It was quite as if she were trying to remain on the nursery floor .
But he had no pity for her .
`` Wendy , '' he said , the sly one , `` you could tuck us in at night . ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` None of us has ever been tucked in at night . ''
`` Oo , '' and her arms went out to him .
`` And you could darn our clothes , and make pockets for us .
None of us has any pockets . ''
How could she resist .
`` Of course it 's awfully fascinating ! ''
she cried .
`` Peter , would you teach John and Michael to fly too ? ''
`` If you like , '' he said indifferently , and she ran to John and Michael and shook them .
`` Wake up , '' she cried , `` Peter Pan has come and he is to teach us to fly . ''
John rubbed his eyes .
`` Then I shall get up , '' he said .
Of course he was on the floor already .
`` Hallo , '' he said , `` I am up ! ''
Michael was up by this time also , looking as sharp as a knife with six blades and a saw , but Peter suddenly signed silence .
Their faces assumed the awful craftiness of children listening for sounds from the grown-up world .
All was as still as salt .
Then everything was right .
No , stop !
Everything was wrong .
Nana , who had been barking distressfully all the evening , was quiet now .
It was her silence they had heard .
`` Out with the light !
Hide !
Quick ! ''
cried John , taking command for the only time throughout the whole adventure .
And thus when Liza entered , holding Nana , the nursery seemed quite its old self , very dark , and you would have sworn you heard its three wicked inmates breathing angelically as they slept .
They were really doing it artfully from behind the window curtains .
Liza was in a bad temper , for she was mixing the Christmas puddings in the kitchen , and had been drawn from them , with a raisin still on her cheek , by Nana 's absurd suspicions .
She thought the best way of getting a little quiet was to take Nana to the nursery for a moment , but in custody of course .
`` There , you suspicious brute , '' she said , not sorry that Nana was in disgrace .
`` They are perfectly safe , are n't they ?
Every one of the little angels sound asleep in bed .
Listen to their gentle breathing . ''
Here Michael , encouraged by his success , breathed so loudly that they were nearly detected .
Nana knew that kind of breathing , and she tried to drag herself out of Liza 's clutches .
But Liza was dense .
`` No more of it , Nana , '' she said sternly , pulling her out of the room .
`` I warn you if you bark again I shall go straight for master and missus and bring them home from the party , and then , oh , wo n't master whip you , just . ''
She tied the unhappy dog up again , but do you think Nana ceased to bark ?
Bring master and missus home from the party !
Why , that was just what she wanted .
Do you think she cared whether she was whipped so long as her charges were safe ?
Unfortunately Liza returned to her puddings , and Nana , seeing that no help would come from her , strained and strained at the chain until at last she broke it .
In another moment she had burst into the dining-room of 27 and flung up her paws to heaven , her most expressive way of making a communication .
Mr. and Mrs. Darling knew at once that something terrible was happening in their nursery , and without a good-bye to their hostess they rushed into the street .
But it was now ten minutes since three scoundrels had been breathing behind the curtains , and Peter Pan can do a great deal in ten minutes .
We now return to the nursery .
`` It 's all right , '' John announced , emerging from his hiding-place .
`` I say , Peter , can you really fly ? ''
Instead of troubling to answer him Peter flew around the room , taking the mantelpiece on the way .
`` How topping ! ''
said John and Michael .
`` How sweet ! ''
cried Wendy .
`` Yes , I 'm sweet , oh , I am sweet ! ''
said Peter , forgetting his manners again .
It looked delightfully easy , and they tried it first from the floor and then from the beds , but they always went down instead of up .
`` I say , how do you do it ? ''
asked John , rubbing his knee .
He was quite a practical boy .
`` You just think lovely wonderful thoughts , '' Peter explained , `` and they lift you up in the air . ''
He showed them again .
`` You 're so nippy at it , '' John said , `` could n't you do it very slowly once ? ''
Peter did it both slowly and quickly .
`` I 've got it now , Wendy ! ''
cried John , but soon he found he had not .
Not one of them could fly an inch , though even Michael was in words of two syllables , and Peter did not know A from Z. Of course Peter had been trifling with them , for no one can fly unless the fairy dust has been blown on him .
Fortunately , as we have mentioned , one of his hands was messy with it , and he blew some on each of them , with the most superb results .
`` Now just wiggle your shoulders this way , '' he said , `` and let go . ''
They were all on their beds , and gallant Michael let go first .
He did not quite mean to let go , but he did it , and immediately he was borne across the room .
`` I flewed ! ''
he screamed while still in mid-air .
John let go and met Wendy near the bathroom .
`` Oh , lovely ! ''
`` Oh , ripping ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
They were not nearly so elegant as Peter , they could not help kicking a little , but their heads were bobbing against the ceiling , and there is almost nothing so delicious as that .
Peter gave Wendy a hand at first , but had to desist , Tink was so indignant .
Up and down they went , and round and round .
Heavenly was Wendy 's word .
`` I say , '' cried John , `` why should n't we all go out ? ''
Of course it was to this that Peter had been luring them .
Michael was ready : he wanted to see how long it took him to do a billion miles .
But Wendy hesitated .
`` Mermaids ! ''
said Peter again .
`` Oo ! ''
`` And there are pirates . ''
`` Pirates , '' cried John , seizing his Sunday hat , `` let us go at once . ''
It was just at this moment that Mr. and Mrs. Darling hurried with Nana out of 27 .
They ran into the middle of the street to look up at the nursery window ; and , yes , it was still shut , but the room was ablaze with light , and most heart-gripping sight of all , they could see in shadow on the curtain three little figures in night attire circling round and round , not on the floor but in the air .
Not three figures , four !
In a tremble they opened the street door .
Mr. Darling would have rushed upstairs , but Mrs. Darling signed him to go softly .
She even tried to make her heart go softly .
Will they reach the nursery in time ?
If so , how delightful for them , and we shall all breathe a sigh of relief , but there will be no story .
On the other hand , if they are not in time , I solemnly promise that it will all come right in the end .
They would have reached the nursery in time had it not been that the little stars were watching them .
Once again the stars blew the window open , and that smallest star of all called out : `` Cave , Peter ! ''
Then Peter knew that there was not a moment to lose .
`` Come , '' he cried imperiously , and soared out at once into the night , followed by John and Michael and Wendy .
Mr. and Mrs. Darling and Nana rushed into the nursery too late .
The birds were flown .
Chapter 4 THE FLIGHT `` Second to the right , and straight on till morning . ''
That , Peter had told Wendy , was the way to the Neverland ; but even birds , carrying maps and consulting them at windy corners , could not have sighted it with these instructions .
Peter , you see , just said anything that came into his head .
At first his companions trusted him implicitly , and so great were the delights of flying that they wasted time circling round church spires or any other tall objects on the way that took their fancy .
John and Michael raced , Michael getting a start .
They recalled with contempt that not so long ago they had thought themselves fine fellows for being able to fly round a room .
Not long ago .
But how long ago ?
They were flying over the sea before this thought began to disturb Wendy seriously .
John thought it was their second sea and their third night .
Sometimes it was dark and sometimes light , and now they were very cold and again too warm .
Did they really feel hungry at times , or were they merely pretending , because Peter had such a jolly new way of feeding them ?
His way was to pursue birds who had food in their mouths suitable for humans and snatch it from them ; then the birds would follow and snatch it back ; and they would all go chasing each other gaily for miles , parting at last with mutual expressions of good-will .
But Wendy noticed with gentle concern that Peter did not seem to know that this was rather an odd way of getting your bread and butter , nor even that there are other ways .
Certainly they did not pretend to be sleepy , they were sleepy ; and that was a danger , for the moment they popped off , down they fell .
The awful thing was that Peter thought this funny .
`` There he goes again ! ''
he would cry gleefully , as Michael suddenly dropped like a stone .
`` Save him , save him ! ''
cried Wendy , looking with horror at the cruel sea far below .
Eventually Peter would dive through the air , and catch Michael just before he could strike the sea , and it was lovely the way he did it ; but he always waited till the last moment , and you felt it was his cleverness that interested him and not the saving of human life .
Also he was fond of variety , and the sport that engrossed him one moment would suddenly cease to engage him , so there was always the possibility that the next time you fell he would let you go .
He could sleep in the air without falling , by merely lying on his back and floating , but this was , partly at least , because he was so light that if you got behind him and blew he went faster .
`` Do be more polite to him , '' Wendy whispered to John , when they were playing `` Follow my Leader . ''
`` Then tell him to stop showing off , '' said John .
When playing Follow my Leader , Peter would fly close to the water and touch each shark 's tail in passing , just as in the street you may run your finger along an iron railing .
They could not follow him in this with much success , so perhaps it was rather like showing off , especially as he kept looking behind to see how many tails they missed .
`` You must be nice to him , '' Wendy impressed on her brothers .
`` What could we do if he were to leave us ! ''
`` We could go back , '' Michael said .
`` How could we ever find our way back without him ? ''
`` Well , then , we could go on , '' said John .
`` That is the awful thing , John .
We should have to go on , for we do n't know how to stop . ''
This was true , Peter had forgotten to show them how to stop .
John said that if the worst came to the worst , all they had to do was to go straight on , for the world was round , and so in time they must come back to their own window .
`` And who is to get food for us , John ? ''
`` I nipped a bit out of that eagle 's mouth pretty neatly , Wendy . ''
`` After the twentieth try , '' Wendy reminded him .
`` And even though we became good at picking up food , see how we bump against clouds and things if he is not near to give us a hand . ''
Indeed they were constantly bumping .
They could now fly strongly , though they still kicked far too much ; but if they saw a cloud in front of them , the more they tried to avoid it , the more certainly did they bump into it .
If Nana had been with them , she would have had a bandage round Michael 's forehead by this time .
Peter was not with them for the moment , and they felt rather lonely up there by themselves .
He could go so much faster than they that he would suddenly shoot out of sight , to have some adventure in which they had no share .
He would come down laughing over something fearfully funny he had been saying to a star , but he had already forgotten what it was , or he would come up with mermaid scales still sticking to him , and yet not be able to say for certain what had been happening .
It was really rather irritating to children who had never seen a mermaid .
`` And if he forgets them so quickly , '' Wendy argued , `` how can we expect that he will go on remembering us ? ''
Indeed , sometimes when he returned he did not remember them , at least not well .
Wendy was sure of it .
She saw recognition come into his eyes as he was about to pass them the time of day and go on ; once even she had to call him by name .
`` I 'm Wendy , '' she said agitatedly .
He was very sorry .
`` I say , Wendy , '' he whispered to her , `` always if you see me forgetting you , just keep on saying ` I 'm Wendy , ' and then I 'll remember . ''
Of course this was rather unsatisfactory .
However , to make amends he showed them how to lie out flat on a strong wind that was going their way , and this was such a pleasant change that they tried it several times and found that they could sleep thus with security .
Indeed they would have slept longer , but Peter tired quickly of sleeping , and soon he would cry in his captain voice , `` We get off here . ''
So with occasional tiffs , but on the whole rollicking , they drew near the Neverland ; for after many moons they did reach it , and , what is more , they had been going pretty straight all the time , not perhaps so much owing to the guidance of Peter or Tink as because the island was looking for them .
It is only thus that any one may sight those magic shores .
`` There it is , '' said Peter calmly .
`` Where , where ? ''
`` Where all the arrows are pointing . ''
Indeed a million golden arrows were pointing it out to the children , all directed by their friend the sun , who wanted them to be sure of their way before leaving them for the night .
Wendy and John and Michael stood on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the island .
Strange to say , they all recognized it at once , and until fear fell upon them they hailed it , not as something long dreamt of and seen at last , but as a familiar friend to whom they were returning home for the holidays .
`` John , there 's the lagoon . ''
`` Wendy , look at the turtles burying their eggs in the sand . ''
`` I say , John , I see your flamingo with the broken leg ! ''
`` Look , Michael , there 's your cave ! ''
`` John , what 's that in the brushwood ? ''
`` It 's a wolf with her whelps .
Wendy , I do believe that 's your little whelp ! ''
`` There 's my boat , John , with her sides stove in ! ''
`` No , it is n't .
Why , we burned your boat . ''
`` That 's her , at any rate .
I say , John , I see the smoke of the redskin camp ! ''
`` Where ?
Show me , and I 'll tell you by the way smoke curls whether they are on the war-path . ''
`` There , just across the Mysterious River . ''
`` I see now .
Yes , they are on the war-path right enough . ''
Peter was a little annoyed with them for knowing so much , but if he wanted to lord it over them his triumph was at hand , for have I not told you that anon fear fell upon them ?
It came as the arrows went , leaving the island in gloom .
In the old days at home the Neverland had always begun to look a little dark and threatening by bedtime .
Then unexplored patches arose in it and spread , black shadows moved about in them , the roar of the beasts of prey was quite different now , and above all , you lost the certainty that you would win .
You were quite glad that the night-lights were on .
You even liked Nana to say that this was just the mantelpiece over here , and that the Neverland was all make-believe .
Of course the Neverland had been make-believe in those days , but it was real now , and there were no night-lights , and it was getting darker every moment , and where was Nana ?
They had been flying apart , but they huddled close to Peter now .
His careless manner had gone at last , his eyes were sparkling , and a tingle went through them every time they touched his body .
They were now over the fearsome island , flying so low that sometimes a tree grazed their feet .
Nothing horrid was visible in the air , yet their progress had become slow and laboured , exactly as if they were pushing their way through hostile forces .
Sometimes they hung in the air until Peter had beaten on it with his fists .
`` They do n't want us to land , '' he explained .
`` Who are they ? ''
Wendy whispered , shuddering .
But he could not or would not say .
Tinker Bell had been asleep on his shoulder , but now he wakened her and sent her on in front .
Sometimes he poised himself in the air , listening intently , with his hand to his ear , and again he would stare down with eyes so bright that they seemed to bore two holes to earth .
Having done these things , he went on again .
His courage was almost appalling .
`` Would you like an adventure now , '' he said casually to John , `` or would you like to have your tea first ? ''
Wendy said `` tea first '' quickly , and Michael pressed her hand in gratitude , but the braver John hesitated .
`` What kind of adventure ? ''
he asked cautiously .
`` There 's a pirate asleep in the pampas just beneath us , '' Peter told him .
`` If you like , we 'll go down and kill him . ''
`` I do n't see him , '' John said after a long pause .
`` I do . ''
`` Suppose , '' John said , a little huskily , `` he were to wake up . ''
Peter spoke indignantly .
`` You do n't think I would kill him while he was sleeping !
I would wake him first , and then kill him .
That 's the way I always do . ''
`` I say !
Do you kill many ? ''
`` Tons . ''
John said `` How ripping , '' but decided to have tea first .
He asked if there were many pirates on the island just now , and Peter said he had never known so many .
`` Who is captain now ? ''
`` Hook , '' answered Peter , and his face became very stern as he said that hated word .
`` Jas .
Hook ? ''
`` Ay . ''
Then indeed Michael began to cry , and even John could speak in gulps only , for they knew Hook 's reputation .
`` He was Blackbeard 's bo ` sun , '' John whispered huskily .
`` He is the worst of them all .
He is the only man of whom Barbecue was afraid . ''
`` That 's him , '' said Peter .
`` What is he like ?
Is he big ? ''
`` He is not so big as he was . ''
`` How do you mean ? ''
`` I cut off a bit of him . ''
`` You ! ''
`` Yes , me , '' said Peter sharply .
`` I was n't meaning to be disrespectful . ''
`` Oh , all right . ''
`` But , I say , what bit ? ''
`` His right hand . ''
`` Then he ca n't fight now ? ''
`` Oh , ca n't he just ! ''
`` Left-hander ? ''
`` He has an iron hook instead of a right hand , and he claws with it . ''
`` Claws ! ''
`` I say , John , '' said Peter .
`` Yes . ''
`` Say , ` Ay , ay , sir . ' ''
`` Ay , ay , sir . ''
`` There is one thing , '' Peter continued , `` that every boy who serves under me has to promise , and so must you . ''
John paled .
`` It is this , if we meet Hook in open fight , you must leave him to me . ''
`` I promise , '' John said loyally .
For the moment they were feeling less eerie , because Tink was flying with them , and in her light they could distinguish each other .
Unfortunately she could not fly so slowly as they , and so she had to go round and round them in a circle in which they moved as in a halo .
Wendy quite liked it , until Peter pointed out the drawbacks .
`` She tells me , '' he said , `` that the pirates sighted us before the darkness came , and got Long Tom out . ''
`` The big gun ? ''
`` Yes .
And of course they must see her light , and if they guess we are near it they are sure to let fly . ''
`` Wendy ! ''
`` John ! ''
`` Michael ! ''
`` Tell her to go away at once , Peter , '' the three cried simultaneously , but he refused .
`` She thinks we have lost the way , '' he replied stiffly , `` and she is rather frightened .
You do n't think I would send her away all by herself when she is frightened ! ''
For a moment the circle of light was broken , and something gave Peter a loving little pinch .
`` Then tell her , '' Wendy begged , `` to put out her light . ''
`` She ca n't put it out .
That is about the only thing fairies ca n't do .
It just goes out of itself when she falls asleep , same as the stars . ''
`` Then tell her to sleep at once , '' John almost ordered .
`` She ca n't sleep except when she 's sleepy .
It is the only other thing fairies ca n't do . ''
`` Seems to me , '' growled John , `` these are the only two things worth doing . ''
Here he got a pinch , but not a loving one .
`` If only one of us had a pocket , '' Peter said , `` we could carry her in it . ''
However , they had set off in such a hurry that there was not a pocket between the four of them .
He had a happy idea .
John 's hat !
Tink agreed to travel by hat if it was carried in the hand .
John carried it , though she had hoped to be carried by Peter .
Presently Wendy took the hat , because John said it struck against his knee as he flew ; and this , as we shall see , led to mischief , for Tinker Bell hated to be under an obligation to Wendy .
In the black topper the light was completely hidden , and they flew on in silence .
It was the stillest silence they had ever known , broken once by a distant lapping , which Peter explained was the wild beasts drinking at the ford , and again by a rasping sound that might have been the branches of trees rubbing together , but he said it was the redskins sharpening their knives .
Even these noises ceased .
To Michael the loneliness was dreadful .
`` If only something would make a sound ! ''
he cried .
As if in answer to his request , the air was rent by the most tremendous crash he had ever heard .
The pirates had fired Long Tom at them .
The roar of it echoed through the mountains , and the echoes seemed to cry savagely , `` Where are they , where are they , where are they ? ''
Thus sharply did the terrified three learn the difference between an island of make-believe and the same island come true .
When at last the heavens were steady again , John and Michael found themselves alone in the darkness .
John was treading the air mechanically , and Michael without knowing how to float was floating .
`` Are you shot ? ''
John whispered tremulously .
`` I have n't tried -LSB- myself out -RSB- yet , '' Michael whispered back .
We know now that no one had been hit .
Peter , however , had been carried by the wind of the shot far out to sea , while Wendy was blown upwards with no companion but Tinker Bell .
It would have been well for Wendy if at that moment she had dropped the hat .
I do n't know whether the idea came suddenly to Tink , or whether she had planned it on the way , but she at once popped out of the hat and began to lure Wendy to her destruction .
Tink was not all bad ; or , rather , she was all bad just now , but , on the other hand , sometimes she was all good .
Fairies have to be one thing or the other , because being so small they unfortunately have room for one feeling only at a time .
They are , however , allowed to change , only it must be a complete change .
At present she was full of jealousy of Wendy .
What she said in her lovely tinkle Wendy could not of course understand , and I believe some of it was bad words , but it sounded kind , and she flew back and forward , plainly meaning `` Follow me , and all will be well . ''
What else could poor Wendy do ?
She called to Peter and John and Michael , and got only mocking echoes in reply .
She did not yet know that Tink hated her with the fierce hatred of a very woman .
And so , bewildered , and now staggering in her flight , she followed Tink to her doom .
Chapter 5 THE ISLAND COME TRUE Feeling that Peter was on his way back , the Neverland had again woke into life .
We ought to use the pluperfect and say wakened , but woke is better and was always used by Peter .
In his absence things are usually quiet on the island .
The fairies take an hour longer in the morning , the beasts attend to their young , the redskins feed heavily for six days and nights , and when pirates and lost boys meet they merely bite their thumbs at each other .
But with the coming of Peter , who hates lethargy , they are under way again : if you put your ear to the ground now , you would hear the whole island seething with life .
On this evening the chief forces of the island were disposed as follows .
The lost boys were out looking for Peter , the pirates were out looking for the lost boys , the redskins were out looking for the pirates , and the beasts were out looking for the redskins .
They were going round and round the island , but they did not meet because all were going at the same rate .
All wanted blood except the boys , who liked it as a rule , but to-night were out to greet their captain .
The boys on the island vary , of course , in numbers , according as they get killed and so on ; and when they seem to be growing up , which is against the rules , Peter thins them out ; but at this time there were six of them , counting the twins as two .
Let us pretend to lie here among the sugar-cane and watch them as they steal by in single file , each with his hand on his dagger .
They are forbidden by Peter to look in the least like him , and they wear the skins of the bears slain by themselves , in which they are so round and furry that when they fall they roll .
They have therefore become very sure-footed .
The first to pass is Tootles , not the least brave but the most unfortunate of all that gallant band .
He had been in fewer adventures than any of them , because the big things constantly happened just when he had stepped round the corner ; all would be quiet , he would take the opportunity of going off to gather a few sticks for firewood , and then when he returned the others would be sweeping up the blood .
This ill-luck had given a gentle melancholy to his countenance , but instead of souring his nature had sweetened it , so that he was quite the humblest of the boys .
Poor kind Tootles , there is danger in the air for you to-night .
Take care lest an adventure is now offered you , which , if accepted , will plunge you in deepest woe .
Tootles , the fairy Tink , who is bent on mischief this night is looking for a tool -LSB- for doing her mischief -RSB- , and she thinks you are the most easily tricked of the boys .
` Ware Tinker Bell .
Would that he could hear us , but we are not really on the island , and he passes by , biting his knuckles .
Next comes Nibs , the gay and debonair , followed by Slightly , who cuts whistles out of the trees and dances ecstatically to his own tunes .
Slightly is the most conceited of the boys .
He thinks he remembers the days before he was lost , with their manners and customs , and this has given his nose an offensive tilt .
Curly is fourth ; he is a pickle , -LSB- a person who gets in pickles-predicaments -RSB- and so often has he had to deliver up his person when Peter said sternly , `` Stand forth the one who did this thing , '' that now at the command he stands forth automatically whether he has done it or not .
Last come the Twins , who can not be described because we should be sure to be describing the wrong one .
Peter never quite knew what twins were , and his band were not allowed to know anything he did not know , so these two were always vague about themselves , and did their best to give satisfaction by keeping close together in an apologetic sort of way .
The boys vanish in the gloom , and after a pause , but not a long pause , for things go briskly on the island , come the pirates on their track .
We hear them before they are seen , and it is always the same dreadful song : `` Avast belay , yo ho , heave to , A-pirating we go , And if we 're parted by a shot We 're sure to meet below ! ''
A more villainous-looking lot never hung in a row on Execution dock .
Here , a little in advance , ever and again with his head to the ground listening , his great arms bare , pieces of eight in his ears as ornaments , is the handsome Italian Cecco , who cut his name in letters of blood on the back of the governor of the prison at Gao .
That gigantic black behind him has had many names since he dropped the one with which dusky mothers still terrify their children on the banks of the Guadjo-mo .
Here is Bill Jukes , every inch of him tattooed , the same Bill Jukes who got six dozen on the WALRUS from Flint before he would drop the bag of moidores -LSB- Portuguese gold pieces -RSB- ; and Cookson , said to be Black Murphy 's brother -LRB- but this was never proved -RRB- , and Gentleman Starkey , once an usher in a public school and still dainty in his ways of killing ; and Skylights -LRB- Morgan 's Skylights -RRB- ; and the Irish bo ` sun Smee , an oddly genial man who stabbed , so to speak , without offence , and was the only Non-conformist in Hook 's crew ; and Noodler , whose hands were fixed on backwards ; and Robt .
Mullins and Alf Mason and many another ruffian long known and feared on the Spanish Main .
In the midst of them , the blackest and largest in that dark setting , reclined James Hook , or as he wrote himself , Jas .
Hook , of whom it is said he was the only man that the Sea-Cook feared .
He lay at his ease in a rough chariot drawn and propelled by his men , and instead of a right hand he had the iron hook with which ever and anon he encouraged them to increase their pace .
As dogs this terrible man treated and addressed them , and as dogs they obeyed him .
In person he was cadaverous -LSB- dead looking -RSB- and blackavized -LSB- dark faced -RSB- , and his hair was dressed in long curls , which at a little distance looked like black candles , and gave a singularly threatening expression to his handsome countenance .
His eyes were of the blue of the forget-me-not , and of a profound melancholy , save when he was plunging his hook into you , at which time two red spots appeared in them and lit them up horribly .
In manner , something of the grand seigneur still clung to him , so that he even ripped you up with an air , and I have been told that he was a RACONTEUR -LSB- storyteller -RSB- of repute .
He was never more sinister than when he was most polite , which is probably the truest test of breeding ; and the elegance of his diction , even when he was swearing , no less than the distinction of his demeanour , showed him one of a different cast from his crew .
A man of indomitable courage , it was said that the only thing he shied at was the sight of his own blood , which was thick and of an unusual colour .
In dress he somewhat aped the attire associated with the name of Charles II , having heard it said in some earlier period of his career that he bore a strange resemblance to the ill-fated Stuarts ; and in his mouth he had a holder of his own contrivance which enabled him to smoke two cigars at once .
But undoubtedly the grimmest part of him was his iron claw .
Let us now kill a pirate , to show Hook 's method .
Skylights will do .
As they pass , Skylights lurches clumsily against him , ruffling his lace collar ; the hook shoots forth , there is a tearing sound and one screech , then the body is kicked aside , and the pirates pass on .
He has not even taken the cigars from his mouth .
Such is the terrible man against whom Peter Pan is pitted .
Which will win ?
On the trail of the pirates , stealing noiselessly down the war-path , which is not visible to inexperienced eyes , come the redskins , every one of them with his eyes peeled .
They carry tomahawks and knives , and their naked bodies gleam with paint and oil .
Strung around them are scalps , of boys as well as of pirates , for these are the Piccaninny tribe , and not to be confused with the softer-hearted Delawares or the Hurons .
In the van , on all fours , is Great Big Little Panther , a brave of so many scalps that in his present position they somewhat impede his progress .
Bringing up the rear , the place of greatest danger , comes Tiger Lily , proudly erect , a princess in her own right .
She is the most beautiful of dusky Dianas -LSB- Diana  goddess of the woods -RSB- and the belle of the Piccaninnies , coquettish -LSB- flirting -RSB- , cold and amorous -LSB- loving -RSB- by turns ; there is not a brave who would not have the wayward thing to wife , but she staves off the altar with a hatchet .
Observe how they pass over fallen twigs without making the slightest noise .
The only sound to be heard is their somewhat heavy breathing .
The fact is that they are all a little fat just now after the heavy gorging , but in time they will work this off .
For the moment , however , it constitutes their chief danger .
The redskins disappear as they have come like shadows , and soon their place is taken by the beasts , a great and motley procession : lions , tigers , bears , and the innumerable smaller savage things that flee from them , for every kind of beast , and , more particularly , all the man-eaters , live cheek by jowl on the favoured island .
Their tongues are hanging out , they are hungry to-night .
When they have passed , comes the last figure of all , a gigantic crocodile .
We shall see for whom she is looking presently .
The crocodile passes , but soon the boys appear again , for the procession must continue indefinitely until one of the parties stops or changes its pace .
Then quickly they will be on top of each other .
All are keeping a sharp look-out in front , but none suspects that the danger may be creeping up from behind .
This shows how real the island was .
The first to fall out of the moving circle was the boys .
They flung themselves down on the sward -LSB- turf -RSB- , close to their underground home .
`` I do wish Peter would come back , '' every one of them said nervously , though in height and still more in breadth they were all larger than their captain .
`` I am the only one who is not afraid of the pirates , '' Slightly said , in the tone that prevented his being a general favourite ; but perhaps some distant sound disturbed him , for he added hastily , `` but I wish he would come back , and tell us whether he has heard anything more about Cinderella . ''
They talked of Cinderella , and Tootles was confident that his mother must have been very like her .
It was only in Peter 's absence that they could speak of mothers , the subject being forbidden by him as silly .
`` All I remember about my mother , '' Nibs told them , `` is that she often said to my father , ` Oh , how I wish I had a cheque-book of my own ! '
I do n't know what a cheque-book is , but I should just love to give my mother one . ''
While they talked they heard a distant sound .
You or I , not being wild things of the woods , would have heard nothing , but they heard it , and it was the grim song : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the pirate life , The flag o ' skull and bones , A merry hour , a hempen rope , And hey for Davy Jones . ''
At once the lost boys -- but where are they ?
They are no longer there .
Rabbits could not have disappeared more quickly .
I will tell you where they are .
With the exception of Nibs , who has darted away to reconnoitre -LSB- look around -RSB- , they are already in their home under the ground , a very delightful residence of which we shall see a good deal presently .
But how have they reached it ?
for there is no entrance to be seen , not so much as a large stone , which if rolled away , would disclose the mouth of a cave .
Look closely , however , and you may note that there are here seven large trees , each with a hole in its hollow trunk as large as a boy .
These are the seven entrances to the home under the ground , for which Hook has been searching in vain these many moons .
Will he find it tonight ?
As the pirates advanced , the quick eye of Starkey sighted Nibs disappearing through the wood , and at once his pistol flashed out .
But an iron claw gripped his shoulder .
`` Captain , let go ! ''
he cried , writhing .
Now for the first time we hear the voice of Hook .
It was a black voice .
`` Put back that pistol first , '' it said threateningly .
`` It was one of those boys you hate .
I could have shot him dead . ''
`` Ay , and the sound would have brought Tiger Lily 's redskins upon us .
Do you want to lose your scalp ? ''
`` Shall I after him , Captain , '' asked pathetic Smee , `` and tickle him with Johnny Corkscrew ? ''
Smee had pleasant names for everything , and his cutlass was Johnny Corkscrew , because he wiggled it in the wound .
One could mention many lovable traits in Smee .
For instance , after killing , it was his spectacles he wiped instead of his weapon .
`` Johnny 's a silent fellow , '' he reminded Hook .
`` Not now , Smee , '' Hook said darkly .
`` He is only one , and I want to mischief all the seven .
Scatter and look for them . ''
The pirates disappeared among the trees , and in a moment their Captain and Smee were alone .
Hook heaved a heavy sigh , and I know not why it was , perhaps it was because of the soft beauty of the evening , but there came over him a desire to confide to his faithful bo ` sun the story of his life .
He spoke long and earnestly , but what it was all about Smee , who was rather stupid , did not know in the least .
Anon -LSB- later -RSB- he caught the word Peter .
`` Most of all , '' Hook was saying passionately , `` I want their captain , Peter Pan .
'T was he cut off my arm . ''
He brandished the hook threateningly .
`` I 've waited long to shake his hand with this .
Oh , I 'll tear him ! ''
`` And yet , '' said Smee , `` I have often heard you say that hook was worth a score of hands , for combing the hair and other homely uses . ''
`` Ay , '' the captain answered , `` if I was a mother I would pray to have my children born with this instead of that , '' and he cast a look of pride upon his iron hand and one of scorn upon the other .
Then again he frowned .
`` Peter flung my arm , '' he said , wincing , `` to a crocodile that happened to be passing by . ''
`` I have often , '' said Smee , `` noticed your strange dread of crocodiles . ''
`` Not of crocodiles , '' Hook corrected him , `` but of that one crocodile . ''
He lowered his voice .
`` It liked my arm so much , Smee , that it has followed me ever since , from sea to sea and from land to land , licking its lips for the rest of me . ''
`` In a way , '' said Smee , `` it 's sort of a compliment . ''
`` I want no such compliments , '' Hook barked petulantly .
`` I want Peter Pan , who first gave the brute its taste for me . ''
He sat down on a large mushroom , and now there was a quiver in his voice .
`` Smee , '' he said huskily , `` that crocodile would have had me before this , but by a lucky chance it swallowed a clock which goes tick tick inside it , and so before it can reach me I hear the tick and bolt . ''
He laughed , but in a hollow way .
`` Some day , '' said Smee , `` the clock will run down , and then he 'll get you . ''
Hook wetted his dry lips .
`` Ay , '' he said , `` that 's the fear that haunts me . ''
Since sitting down he had felt curiously warm .
`` Smee , '' he said , `` this seat is hot . ''
He jumped up .
`` Odds bobs , hammer and tongs I 'm burning . ''
They examined the mushroom , which was of a size and solidity unknown on the mainland ; they tried to pull it up , and it came away at once in their hands , for it had no root .
Stranger still , smoke began at once to ascend .
The pirates looked at each other .
`` A chimney ! ''
they both exclaimed .
They had indeed discovered the chimney of the home under the ground .
It was the custom of the boys to stop it with a mushroom when enemies were in the neighbourhood .
Not only smoke came out of it .
There came also children 's voices , for so safe did the boys feel in their hiding-place that they were gaily chattering .
The pirates listened grimly , and then replaced the mushroom .
They looked around them and noted the holes in the seven trees .
`` Did you hear them say Peter Pan 's from home ? ''
Smee whispered , fidgeting with Johnny Corkscrew .
Hook nodded .
He stood for a long time lost in thought , and at last a curdling smile lit up his swarthy face .
Smee had been waiting for it .
`` Unrip your plan , captain , '' he cried eagerly .
`` To return to the ship , '' Hook replied slowly through his teeth , `` and cook a large rich cake of a jolly thickness with green sugar on it .
There can be but one room below , for there is but one chimney .
The silly moles had not the sense to see that they did not need a door apiece .
That shows they have no mother .
We will leave the cake on the shore of the Mermaids ' Lagoon .
These boys are always swimming about there , playing with the mermaids .
They will find the cake and they will gobble it up , because , having no mother , they do n't know how dangerous 't is to eat rich damp cake . ''
He burst into laughter , not hollow laughter now , but honest laughter .
`` Aha , they will die . ''
Smee had listened with growing admiration .
`` It 's the wickedest , prettiest policy ever I heard of ! ''
he cried , and in their exultation they danced and sang : `` Avast , belay , when I appear , By fear they 're overtook ; Nought 's left upon your bones when you Have shaken claws with Hook . ''
They began the verse , but they never finished it , for another sound broke in and stilled them .
There was at first such a tiny sound that a leaf might have fallen on it and smothered it , but as it came nearer it was more distinct .
Tick tick tick tick !
Hook stood shuddering , one foot in the air .
`` The crocodile ! ''
he gasped , and bounded away , followed by his bo ` sun .
It was indeed the crocodile .
It had passed the redskins , who were now on the trail of the other pirates .
It oozed on after Hook .
Once more the boys emerged into the open ; but the dangers of the night were not yet over , for presently Nibs rushed breathless into their midst , pursued by a pack of wolves .
The tongues of the pursuers were hanging out ; the baying of them was horrible .
`` Save me , save me ! ''
cried Nibs , falling on the ground .
`` But what can we do , what can we do ? ''
It was a high compliment to Peter that at that dire moment their thoughts turned to him .
`` What would Peter do ? ''
they cried simultaneously .
Almost in the same breath they cried , `` Peter would look at them through his legs . ''
And then , `` Let us do what Peter would do . ''
It is quite the most successful way of defying wolves , and as one boy they bent and looked through their legs .
The next moment is the long one , but victory came quickly , for as the boys advanced upon them in the terrible attitude , the wolves dropped their tails and fled .
Now Nibs rose from the ground , and the others thought that his staring eyes still saw the wolves .
But it was not wolves he saw .
`` I have seen a wonderfuller thing , '' he cried , as they gathered round him eagerly .
`` A great white bird .
It is flying this way . ''
`` What kind of a bird , do you think ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' Nibs said , awestruck , `` but it looks so weary , and as it flies it moans , ` Poor Wendy , ' '' `` Poor Wendy ? ''
`` I remember , '' said Slightly instantly , `` there are birds called Wendies . ''
`` See , it comes ! ''
cried Curly , pointing to Wendy in the heavens .
Wendy was now almost overhead , and they could hear her plaintive cry .
But more distinct came the shrill voice of Tinker Bell .
The jealous fairy had now cast off all disguise of friendship , and was darting at her victim from every direction , pinching savagely each time she touched .
`` Hullo , Tink , '' cried the wondering boys .
Tink 's reply rang out : `` Peter wants you to shoot the Wendy . ''
It was not in their nature to question when Peter ordered .
`` Let us do what Peter wishes ! ''
cried the simple boys .
`` Quick , bows and arrows ! ''
All but Tootles popped down their trees .
He had a bow and arrow with him , and Tink noted it , and rubbed her little hands .
`` Quick , Tootles , quick , '' she screamed .
`` Peter will be so pleased . ''
Tootles excitedly fitted the arrow to his bow .
`` Out of the way , Tink , '' he shouted , and then he fired , and Wendy fluttered to the ground with an arrow in her breast .
Chapter 6 THE LITTLE HOUSE Foolish Tootles was standing like a conqueror over Wendy 's body when the other boys sprang , armed , from their trees .
`` You are too late , '' he cried proudly , `` I have shot the Wendy .
Peter will be so pleased with me . ''
Overhead Tinker Bell shouted `` Silly ass ! ''
and darted into hiding .
The others did not hear her .
They had crowded round Wendy , and as they looked a terrible silence fell upon the wood .
If Wendy 's heart had been beating they would all have heard it .
Slightly was the first to speak .
`` This is no bird , '' he said in a scared voice .
`` I think this must be a lady . ''
`` A lady ? ''
said Tootles , and fell a-trembling .
`` And we have killed her , '' Nibs said hoarsely .
They all whipped off their caps .
`` Now I see , '' Curly said : `` Peter was bringing her to us . ''
He threw himself sorrowfully on the ground .
`` A lady to take care of us at last , '' said one of the twins , `` and you have killed her ! ''
They were sorry for him , but sorrier for themselves , and when he took a step nearer them they turned from him .
Tootles ' face was very white , but there was a dignity about him now that had never been there before .
`` I did it , '' he said , reflecting .
`` When ladies used to come to me in dreams , I said , ` Pretty mother , pretty mother . '
But when at last she really came , I shot her . ''
He moved slowly away .
`` Do n't go , '' they called in pity .
`` I must , '' he answered , shaking ; `` I am so afraid of Peter . ''
It was at this tragic moment that they heard a sound which made the heart of every one of them rise to his mouth .
They heard Peter crow .
`` Peter ! ''
they cried , for it was always thus that he signalled his return .
`` Hide her , '' they whispered , and gathered hastily around Wendy .
But Tootles stood aloof .
Again came that ringing crow , and Peter dropped in front of them .
`` Greetings , boys , '' he cried , and mechanically they saluted , and then again was silence .
He frowned .
`` I am back , '' he said hotly , `` why do you not cheer ? ''
They opened their mouths , but the cheers would not come .
He overlooked it in his haste to tell the glorious tidings .
`` Great news , boys , '' he cried , `` I have brought at last a mother for you all . ''
Still no sound , except a little thud from Tootles as he dropped on his knees .
`` Have you not seen her ? ''
asked Peter , becoming troubled .
`` She flew this way . ''
`` Ah me ! ''
once voice said , and another said , `` Oh , mournful day . ''
Tootles rose .
`` Peter , '' he said quietly , `` I will show her to you , '' and when the others would still have hidden her he said , `` Back , twins , let Peter see . ''
So they all stood back , and let him see , and after he had looked for a little time he did not know what to do next .
`` She is dead , '' he said uncomfortably .
`` Perhaps she is frightened at being dead . ''
He thought of hopping off in a comic sort of way till he was out of sight of her , and then never going near the spot any more .
They would all have been glad to follow if he had done this .
But there was the arrow .
He took it from her heart and faced his band .
`` Whose arrow ? ''
he demanded sternly .
`` Mine , Peter , '' said Tootles on his knees .
`` Oh , dastard hand , '' Peter said , and he raised the arrow to use it as a dagger .
Tootles did not flinch .
He bared his breast .
`` Strike , Peter , '' he said firmly , `` strike true . ''
Twice did Peter raise the arrow , and twice did his hand fall .
`` I can not strike , '' he said with awe , `` there is something stays my hand . ''
All looked at him in wonder , save Nibs , who fortunately looked at Wendy .
`` It is she , '' he cried , `` the Wendy lady , see , her arm ! ''
Wonderful to relate -LSB- tell -RSB- , Wendy had raised her arm .
Nibs bent over her and listened reverently .
`` I think she said , ` Poor Tootles , ' '' he whispered .
`` She lives , '' Peter said briefly .
Slightly cried instantly , `` The Wendy lady lives . ''
Then Peter knelt beside her and found his button .
You remember she had put it on a chain that she wore round her neck .
`` See , '' he said , `` the arrow struck against this .
It is the kiss I gave her .
It has saved her life . ''
`` I remember kisses , '' Slightly interposed quickly , `` let me see it .
Ay , that 's a kiss . ''
Peter did not hear him .
He was begging Wendy to get better quickly , so that he could show her the mermaids .
Of course she could not answer yet , being still in a frightful faint ; but from overhead came a wailing note .
`` Listen to Tink , '' said Curly , `` she is crying because the Wendy lives . ''
Then they had to tell Peter of Tink 's crime , and almost never had they seen him look so stern .
`` Listen , Tinker Bell , '' he cried , `` I am your friend no more .
Begone from me for ever . ''
She flew on to his shoulder and pleaded , but he brushed her off .
Not until Wendy again raised her arm did he relent sufficiently to say , `` Well , not for ever , but for a whole week . ''
Do you think Tinker Bell was grateful to Wendy for raising her arm ?
Oh dear no , never wanted to pinch her so much .
Fairies indeed are strange , and Peter , who understood them best , often cuffed -LSB- slapped -RSB- them .
But what to do with Wendy in her present delicate state of health ?
`` Let us carry her down into the house , '' Curly suggested .
`` Ay , '' said Slightly , `` that is what one does with ladies . ''
`` No , no , '' Peter said , `` you must not touch her .
It would not be sufficiently respectful . ''
`` That , '' said Slightly , `` is what I was thinking . ''
`` But if she lies there , '' Tootles said , `` she will die . ''
`` Ay , she will die , '' Slightly admitted , `` but there is no way out . ''
`` Yes , there is , '' cried Peter .
`` Let us build a little house round her . ''
They were all delighted .
`` Quick , '' he ordered them , `` bring me each of you the best of what we have .
Gut our house .
Be sharp . ''
In a moment they were as busy as tailors the night before a wedding .
They skurried this way and that , down for bedding , up for firewood , and while they were at it , who should appear but John and Michael .
As they dragged along the ground they fell asleep standing , stopped , woke up , moved another step and slept again .
`` John , John , '' Michael would cry , `` wake up !
Where is Nana , John , and mother ? ''
And then John would rub his eyes and mutter , `` It is true , we did fly . ''
You may be sure they were very relieved to find Peter .
`` Hullo , Peter , '' they said .
`` Hullo , '' replied Peter amicably , though he had quite forgotten them .
He was very busy at the moment measuring Wendy with his feet to see how large a house she would need .
Of course he meant to leave room for chairs and a table .
John and Michael watched him .
`` Is Wendy asleep ? ''
they asked .
`` Yes . ''
`` John , '' Michael proposed , `` let us wake her and get her to make supper for us , '' but as he said it some of the other boys rushed on carrying branches for the building of the house .
`` Look at them ! ''
he cried .
`` Curly , '' said Peter in his most captainy voice , `` see that these boys help in the building of the house . ''
`` Ay , ay , sir . ''
`` Build a house ? ''
exclaimed John .
`` For the Wendy , '' said Curly .
`` For Wendy ? ''
John said , aghast .
`` Why , she is only a girl ! ''
`` That , '' explained Curly , `` is why we are her servants . ''
`` You ?
Wendy 's servants ! ''
`` Yes , '' said Peter , `` and you also .
Away with them . ''
The astounded brothers were dragged away to hack and hew and carry .
`` Chairs and a fender -LSB- fireplace -RSB- first , '' Peter ordered .
`` Then we shall build a house round them . ''
`` Ay , '' said Slightly , `` that is how a house is built ; it all comes back to me . ''
Peter thought of everything .
`` Slightly , '' he cried , `` fetch a doctor . ''
`` Ay , ay , '' said Slightly at once , and disappeared , scratching his head .
But he knew Peter must be obeyed , and he returned in a moment , wearing John 's hat and looking solemn .
`` Please , sir , '' said Peter , going to him , `` are you a doctor ? ''
The difference between him and the other boys at such a time was that they knew it was make-believe , while to him make-believe and true were exactly the same thing .
This sometimes troubled them , as when they had to make-believe that they had had their dinners .
If they broke down in their make-believe he rapped them on the knuckles .
`` Yes , my little man , '' Slightly anxiously replied , who had chapped knuckles .
`` Please , sir , '' Peter explained , `` a lady lies very ill . ''
She was lying at their feet , but Slightly had the sense not to see her .
`` Tut , tut , tut , '' he said , `` where does she lie ? ''
`` In yonder glade . ''
`` I will put a glass thing in her mouth , '' said Slightly , and he made-believe to do it , while Peter waited .
It was an anxious moment when the glass thing was withdrawn .
`` How is she ? ''
inquired Peter .
`` Tut , tut , tut , '' said Slightly , `` this has cured her . ''
`` I am glad ! ''
Peter cried .
`` I will call again in the evening , '' Slightly said ; `` give her beef tea out of a cup with a spout to it ; '' but after he had returned the hat to John he blew big breaths , which was his habit on escaping from a difficulty .
In the meantime the wood had been alive with the sound of axes ; almost everything needed for a cosy dwelling already lay at Wendy 's feet .
`` If only we knew , '' said one , `` the kind of house she likes best . ''
`` Peter , '' shouted another , `` she is moving in her sleep . ''
`` Her mouth opens , '' cried a third , looking respectfully into it .
`` Oh , lovely ! ''
`` Perhaps she is going to sing in her sleep , '' said Peter .
`` Wendy , sing the kind of house you would like to have . ''
Immediately , without opening her eyes , Wendy began to sing : `` I wish I had a pretty house , The littlest ever seen , With funny little red walls And roof of mossy green . ''
They gurgled with joy at this , for by the greatest good luck the branches they had brought were sticky with red sap , and all the ground was carpeted with moss .
As they rattled up the little house they broke into song themselves : `` We 've built the little walls and roof And made a lovely door , So tell us , mother Wendy , What are you wanting more ? ''
To this she answered greedily : `` Oh , really next I think I 'll have Gay windows all about , With roses peeping in , you know , And babies peeping out . ''
With a blow of their fists they made windows , and large yellow leaves were the blinds .
But roses -- ?
`` Roses , '' cried Peter sternly .
Quickly they made-believe to grow the loveliest roses up the walls .
Babies ?
To prevent Peter ordering babies they hurried into song again : `` We 've made the roses peeping out , The babes are at the door , We can not make ourselves , you know , ` cos we 've been made before . ''
Peter , seeing this to be a good idea , at once pretended that it was his own .
The house was quite beautiful , and no doubt Wendy was very cosy within , though , of course , they could no longer see her .
Peter strode up and down , ordering finishing touches .
Nothing escaped his eagle eyes .
Just when it seemed absolutely finished : `` There 's no knocker on the door , '' he said .
They were very ashamed , but Tootles gave the sole of his shoe , and it made an excellent knocker .
Absolutely finished now , they thought .
Not of bit of it .
`` There 's no chimney , '' Peter said ; `` we must have a chimney . ''
`` It certainly does need a chimney , '' said John importantly .
This gave Peter an idea .
He snatched the hat off John 's head , knocked out the bottom -LSB- top -RSB- , and put the hat on the roof .
The little house was so pleased to have such a capital chimney that , as if to say thank you , smoke immediately began to come out of the hat .
Now really and truly it was finished .
Nothing remained to do but to knock .
`` All look your best , '' Peter warned them ; `` first impressions are awfully important . ''
He was glad no one asked him what first impressions are ; they were all too busy looking their best .
He knocked politely , and now the wood was as still as the children , not a sound to be heard except from Tinker Bell , who was watching from a branch and openly sneering .
What the boys were wondering was , would any one answer the knock ?
If a lady , what would she be like ?
The door opened and a lady came out .
It was Wendy .
They all whipped off their hats .
She looked properly surprised , and this was just how they had hoped she would look .
`` Where am I ? ''
she said .
Of course Slightly was the first to get his word in .
`` Wendy lady , '' he said rapidly , `` for you we built this house . ''
`` Oh , say you 're pleased , '' cried Nibs .
`` Lovely , darling house , '' Wendy said , and they were the very words they had hoped she would say .
`` And we are your children , '' cried the twins .
Then all went on their knees , and holding out their arms cried , `` O Wendy lady , be our mother . ''
`` Ought I ? ''
Wendy said , all shining .
`` Of course it 's frightfully fascinating , but you see I am only a little girl .
I have no real experience . ''
`` That does n't matter , '' said Peter , as if he were the only person present who knew all about it , though he was really the one who knew least .
`` What we need is just a nice motherly person . ''
`` Oh dear ! ''
Wendy said , `` you see , I feel that is exactly what I am . ''
`` It is , it is , '' they all cried ; `` we saw it at once . ''
`` Very well , '' she said , `` I will do my best .
Come inside at once , you naughty children ; I am sure your feet are damp .
And before I put you to bed I have just time to finish the story of Cinderella . ''
In they went ; I do n't know how there was room for them , but you can squeeze very tight in the Neverland .
And that was the first of the many joyous evenings they had with Wendy .
By and by she tucked them up in the great bed in the home under the trees , but she herself slept that night in the little house , and Peter kept watch outside with drawn sword , for the pirates could be heard carousing far away and the wolves were on the prowl .
The little house looked so cosy and safe in the darkness , with a bright light showing through its blinds , and the chimney smoking beautifully , and Peter standing on guard .
After a time he fell asleep , and some unsteady fairies had to climb over him on their way home from an orgy .
Any of the other boys obstructing the fairy path at night they would have mischiefed , but they just tweaked Peter 's nose and passed on .
Chapter 7 THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND One of the first things Peter did next day was to measure Wendy and John and Michael for hollow trees .
Hook , you remember , had sneered at the boys for thinking they needed a tree apiece , but this was ignorance , for unless your tree fitted you it was difficult to go up and down , and no two of the boys were quite the same size .
Once you fitted , you drew in -LSB- let out -RSB- your breath at the top , and down you went at exactly the right speed , while to ascend you drew in and let out alternately , and so wriggled up .
Of course , when you have mastered the action you are able to do these things without thinking of them , and nothing can be more graceful .
But you simply must fit , and Peter measures you for your tree as carefully as for a suit of clothes : the only difference being that the clothes are made to fit you , while you have to be made to fit the tree .
Usually it is done quite easily , as by your wearing too many garments or too few , but if you are bumpy in awkward places or the only available tree is an odd shape , Peter does some things to you , and after that you fit .
Once you fit , great care must be taken to go on fitting , and this , as Wendy was to discover to her delight , keeps a whole family in perfect condition .
Wendy and Michael fitted their trees at the first try , but John had to be altered a little .
After a few days ' practice they could go up and down as gaily as buckets in a well .
And how ardently they grew to love their home under the ground ; especially Wendy .
It consisted of one large room , as all houses should do , with a floor in which you could dig -LSB- for worms -RSB- if you wanted to go fishing , and in this floor grew stout mushrooms of a charming colour , which were used as stools .
A Never tree tried hard to grow in the centre of the room , but every morning they sawed the trunk through , level with the floor .
By tea-time it was always about two feet high , and then they put a door on top of it , the whole thus becoming a table ; as soon as they cleared away , they sawed off the trunk again , and thus there was more room to play .
There was an enormous fireplace which was in almost any part of the room where you cared to light it , and across this Wendy stretched strings , made of fibre , from which she suspended her washing .
The bed was tilted against the wall by day , and let down at 6:30 , when it filled nearly half the room ; and all the boys slept in it , except Michael , lying like sardines in a tin .
There was a strict rule against turning round until one gave the signal , when all turned at once .
Michael should have used it also , but Wendy would have -LSB- desired -RSB- a baby , and he was the littlest , and you know what women are , and the short and long of it is that he was hung up in a basket .
It was rough and simple , and not unlike what baby bears would have made of an underground house in the same circumstances .
But there was one recess in the wall , no larger than a bird-cage , which was the private apartment of Tinker Bell .
It could be shut off from the rest of the house by a tiny curtain , which Tink , who was most fastidious -LSB- particular -RSB- , always kept drawn when dressing or undressing .
No woman , however large , could have had a more exquisite boudoir -LSB- dressing room -RSB- and bed-chamber combined .
The couch , as she always called it , was a genuine Queen Mab , with club legs ; and she varied the bedspreads according to what fruit-blossom was in season .
Her mirror was a Puss-in-Boots , of which there are now only three , unchipped , known to fairy dealers ; the washstand was Pie-crust and reversible , the chest of drawers an authentic Charming the Sixth , and the carpet and rugs the best -LRB- the early -RRB- period of Margery and Robin .
There was a chandelier from Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing , but of course she lit the residence herself .
Tink was very contemptuous of the rest of the house , as indeed was perhaps inevitable , and her chamber , though beautiful , looked rather conceited , having the appearance of a nose permanently turned up .
I suppose it was all especially entrancing to Wendy , because those rampagious boys of hers gave her so much to do .
Really there were whole weeks when , except perhaps with a stocking in the evening , she was never above ground .
The cooking , I can tell you , kept her nose to the pot , and even if there was nothing in it , even if there was no pot , she had to keep watching that it came aboil just the same .
You never exactly knew whether there would be a real meal or just a make-believe , it all depended upon Peter 's whim : he could eat , really eat , if it was part of a game , but he could not stodge -LSB- cram down the food -RSB- just to feel stodgy -LSB- stuffed with food -RSB- , which is what most children like better than anything else ; the next best thing being to talk about it .
Make-believe was so real to him that during a meal of it you could see him getting rounder .
Of course it was trying , but you simply had to follow his lead , and if you could prove to him that you were getting loose for your tree he let you stodge .
Wendy 's favourite time for sewing and darning was after they had all gone to bed .
Then , as she expressed it , she had a breathing time for herself ; and she occupied it in making new things for them , and putting double pieces on the knees , for they were all most frightfully hard on their knees .
When she sat down to a basketful of their stockings , every heel with a hole in it , she would fling up her arms and exclaim , `` Oh dear , I am sure I sometimes think spinsters are to be envied ! ''
Her face beamed when she exclaimed this .
You remember about her pet wolf .
Well , it very soon discovered that she had come to the island and it found her out , and they just ran into each other 's arms .
After that it followed her about everywhere .
As time wore on did she think much about the beloved parents she had left behind her ?
This is a difficult question , because it is quite impossible to say how time does wear on in the Neverland , where it is calculated by moons and suns , and there are ever so many more of them than on the mainland .
But I am afraid that Wendy did not really worry about her father and mother ; she was absolutely confident that they would always keep the window open for her to fly back by , and this gave her complete ease of mind .
What did disturb her at times was that John remembered his parents vaguely only , as people he had once known , while Michael was quite willing to believe that she was really his mother .
These things scared her a little , and nobly anxious to do her duty , she tried to fix the old life in their minds by setting them examination papers on it , as like as possible to the ones she used to do at school .
The other boys thought this awfully interesting , and insisted on joining , and they made slates for themselves , and sat round the table , writing and thinking hard about the questions she had written on another slate and passed round .
They were the most ordinary questions -- `` What was the colour of Mother 's eyes ?
Which was taller , Father or Mother ?
Was Mother blonde or brunette ?
Answer all three questions if possible . '' ''
-LRB- A -RRB- Write an essay of not less than 40 words on How I spent my last Holidays , or The Characters of Father and Mother compared .
Only one of these to be attempted . ''
Or '' -LRB- 1 -RRB- Describe Mother 's laugh ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- Describe Father 's laugh ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- Describe Mother 's Party Dress ; -LRB- 4 -RRB- Describe the Kennel and its Inmate . ''
They were just everyday questions like these , and when you could not answer them you were told to make a cross ; and it was really dreadful what a number of crosses even John made .
Of course the only boy who replied to every question was Slightly , and no one could have been more hopeful of coming out first , but his answers were perfectly ridiculous , and he really came out last : a melancholy thing .
Peter did not compete .
For one thing he despised all mothers except Wendy , and for another he was the only boy on the island who could neither write nor spell ; not the smallest word .
He was above all that sort of thing .
By the way , the questions were all written in the past tense .
What was the colour of Mother 's eyes , and so on .
Wendy , you see , had been forgetting , too .
Adventures , of course , as we shall see , were of daily occurrence ; but about this time Peter invented , with Wendy 's help , a new game that fascinated him enormously , until he suddenly had no more interest in it , which , as you have been told , was what always happened with his games .
It consisted in pretending not to have adventures , in doing the sort of thing John and Michael had been doing all their lives , sitting on stools flinging balls in the air , pushing each other , going out for walks and coming back without having killed so much as a grizzly .
To see Peter doing nothing on a stool was a great sight ; he could not help looking solemn at such times , to sit still seemed to him such a comic thing to do .
He boasted that he had gone walking for the good of his health .
For several suns these were the most novel of all adventures to him ; and John and Michael had to pretend to be delighted also ; otherwise he would have treated them severely .
He often went out alone , and when he came back you were never absolutely certain whether he had had an adventure or not .
He might have forgotten it so completely that he said nothing about it ; and then when you went out you found the body ; and , on the other hand , he might say a great deal about it , and yet you could not find the body .
Sometimes he came home with his head bandaged , and then Wendy cooed over him and bathed it in lukewarm water , while he told a dazzling tale .
But she was never quite sure , you know .
There were , however , many adventures which she knew to be true because she was in them herself , and there were still more that were at least partly true , for the other boys were in them and said they were wholly true .
To describe them all would require a book as large as an English-Latin , Latin-English Dictionary , and the most we can do is to give one as a specimen of an average hour on the island .
The difficulty is which one to choose .
Should we take the brush with the redskins at Slightly Gulch ?
It was a sanguinary -LSB- cheerful -RSB- affair , and especially interesting as showing one of Peter 's peculiarities , which was that in the middle of a fight he would suddenly change sides .
At the Gulch , when victory was still in the balance , sometimes leaning this way and sometimes that , he called out , `` I 'm redskin to-day ; what are you , Tootles ? ''
And Tootles answered , `` Redskin ; what are you , Nibs ? ''
and Nibs said , `` Redskin ; what are you Twin ? ''
and so on ; and they were all redskins ; and of course this would have ended the fight had not the real redskins fascinated by Peter 's methods , agreed to be lost boys for that once , and so at it they all went again , more fiercely than ever .
The extraordinary upshot of this adventure was -- but we have not decided yet that this is the adventure we are to narrate .
Perhaps a better one would be the night attack by the redskins on the house under the ground , when several of them stuck in the hollow trees and had to be pulled out like corks .
Or we might tell how Peter saved Tiger Lily 's life in the Mermaids ' Lagoon , and so made her his ally .
Or we could tell of that cake the pirates cooked so that the boys might eat it and perish ; and how they placed it in one cunning spot after another ; but always Wendy snatched it from the hands of her children , so that in time it lost its succulence , and became as hard as a stone , and was used as a missile , and Hook fell over it in the dark .
Or suppose we tell of the birds that were Peter 's friends , particularly of the Never bird that built in a tree overhanging the lagoon , and how the nest fell into the water , and still the bird sat on her eggs , and Peter gave orders that she was not to be disturbed .
That is a pretty story , and the end shows how grateful a bird can be ; but if we tell it we must also tell the whole adventure of the lagoon , which would of course be telling two adventures rather than just one .
A shorter adventure , and quite as exciting , was Tinker Bell 's attempt , with the help of some street fairies , to have the sleeping Wendy conveyed on a great floating leaf to the mainland .
Fortunately the leaf gave way and Wendy woke , thinking it was bath-time , and swam back .
Or again , we might choose Peter 's defiance of the lions , when he drew a circle round him on the ground with an arrow and dared them to cross it ; and though he waited for hours , with the other boys and Wendy looking on breathlessly from trees , not one of them dared to accept his challenge .
Which of these adventures shall we choose ?
The best way will be to toss for it .
I have tossed , and the lagoon has won .
This almost makes one wish that the gulch or the cake or Tink 's leaf had won .
Of course I could do it again , and make it best out of three ; however , perhaps fairest to stick to the lagoon .
Chapter 8 THE MERMAIDS ' LAGOON If you shut your eyes and are a lucky one , you may see at times a shapeless pool of lovely pale colours suspended in the darkness ; then if you squeeze your eyes tighter , the pool begins to take shape , and the colours become so vivid that with another squeeze they must go on fire .
But just before they go on fire you see the lagoon .
This is the nearest you ever get to it on the mainland , just one heavenly moment ; if there could be two moments you might see the surf and hear the mermaids singing .
The children often spent long summer days on this lagoon , swimming or floating most of the time , playing the mermaid games in the water , and so forth .
You must not think from this that the mermaids were on friendly terms with them : on the contrary , it was among Wendy 's lasting regrets that all the time she was on the island she never had a civil word from one of them .
When she stole softly to the edge of the lagoon she might see them by the score , especially on Marooners ' Rock , where they loved to bask , combing out their hair in a lazy way that quite irritated her ; or she might even swim , on tiptoe as it were , to within a yard of them , but then they saw her and dived , probably splashing her with their tails , not by accident , but intentionally .
They treated all the boys in the same way , except of course Peter , who chatted with them on Marooners ' Rock by the hour , and sat on their tails when they got cheeky .
He gave Wendy one of their combs .
The most haunting time at which to see them is at the turn of the moon , when they utter strange wailing cries ; but the lagoon is dangerous for mortals then , and until the evening of which we have now to tell , Wendy had never seen the lagoon by moonlight , less from fear , for of course Peter would have accompanied her , than because she had strict rules about every one being in bed by seven .
She was often at the lagoon , however , on sunny days after rain , when the mermaids come up in extraordinary numbers to play with their bubbles .
The bubbles of many colours made in rainbow water they treat as balls , hitting them gaily from one to another with their tails , and trying to keep them in the rainbow till they burst .
The goals are at each end of the rainbow , and the keepers only are allowed to use their hands .
Sometimes a dozen of these games will be going on in the lagoon at a time , and it is quite a pretty sight .
But the moment the children tried to join in they had to play by themselves , for the mermaids immediately disappeared .
Nevertheless we have proof that they secretly watched the interlopers , and were not above taking an idea from them ; for John introduced a new way of hitting the bubble , with the head instead of the hand , and the mermaids adopted it .
This is the one mark that John has left on the Neverland .
It must also have been rather pretty to see the children resting on a rock for half an hour after their mid-day meal .
Wendy insisted on their doing this , and it had to be a real rest even though the meal was make-believe .
So they lay there in the sun , and their bodies glistened in it , while she sat beside them and looked important .
It was one such day , and they were all on Marooners ' Rock .
The rock was not much larger than their great bed , but of course they all knew how not to take up much room , and they were dozing , or at least lying with their eyes shut , and pinching occasionally when they thought Wendy was not looking .
She was very busy , stitching .
While she stitched a change came to the lagoon .
Little shivers ran over it , and the sun went away and shadows stole across the water , turning it cold .
Wendy could no longer see to thread her needle , and when she looked up , the lagoon that had always hitherto been such a laughing place seemed formidable and unfriendly .
It was not , she knew , that night had come , but something as dark as night had come .
No , worse than that .
It had not come , but it had sent that shiver through the sea to say that it was coming .
What was it ?
There crowded upon her all the stories she had been told of Marooners ' Rock , so called because evil captains put sailors on it and leave them there to drown .
They drown when the tide rises , for then it is submerged .
Of course she should have roused the children at once ; not merely because of the unknown that was stalking toward them , but because it was no longer good for them to sleep on a rock grown chilly .
But she was a young mother and she did not know this ; she thought you simply must stick to your rule about half an hour after the mid-day meal .
So , though fear was upon her , and she longed to hear male voices , she would not waken them .
Even when she heard the sound of muffled oars , though her heart was in her mouth , she did not waken them .
She stood over them to let them have their sleep out .
Was it not brave of Wendy ?
It was well for those boys then that there was one among them who could sniff danger even in his sleep .
Peter sprang erect , as wide awake at once as a dog , and with one warning cry he roused the others .
He stood motionless , one hand to his ear .
`` Pirates ! ''
he cried .
The others came closer to him .
A strange smile was playing about his face , and Wendy saw it and shuddered .
While that smile was on his face no one dared address him ; all they could do was to stand ready to obey .
The order came sharp and incisive .
`` Dive ! ''
There was a gleam of legs , and instantly the lagoon seemed deserted .
Marooners ' Rock stood alone in the forbidding waters as if it were itself marooned .
The boat drew nearer .
It was the pirate dinghy , with three figures in her , Smee and Starkey , and the third a captive , no other than Tiger Lily .
Her hands and ankles were tied , and she knew what was to be her fate .
She was to be left on the rock to perish , an end to one of her race more terrible than death by fire or torture , for is it not written in the book of the tribe that there is no path through water to the happy hunting-ground ?
Yet her face was impassive ; she was the daughter of a chief , she must die as a chief 's daughter , it is enough .
They had caught her boarding the pirate ship with a knife in her mouth .
No watch was kept on the ship , it being Hook 's boast that the wind of his name guarded the ship for a mile around .
Now her fate would help to guard it also .
One more wail would go the round in that wind by night .
In the gloom that they brought with them the two pirates did not see the rock till they crashed into it .
`` Luff , you lubber , '' cried an Irish voice that was Smee 's ; `` here 's the rock .
Now , then , what we have to do is to hoist the redskin on to it and leave her here to drown . ''
It was the work of one brutal moment to land the beautiful girl on the rock ; she was too proud to offer a vain resistance .
Quite near the rock , but out of sight , two heads were bobbing up and down , Peter 's and Wendy 's .
Wendy was crying , for it was the first tragedy she had seen .
Peter had seen many tragedies , but he had forgotten them all .
He was less sorry than Wendy for Tiger Lily : it was two against one that angered him , and he meant to save her .
An easy way would have been to wait until the pirates had gone , but he was never one to choose the easy way .
There was almost nothing he could not do , and he now imitated the voice of Hook .
`` Ahoy there , you lubbers ! ''
he called .
It was a marvellous imitation .
`` The captain ! ''
said the pirates , staring at each other in surprise .
`` He must be swimming out to us , '' Starkey said , when they had looked for him in vain .
`` We are putting the redskin on the rock , '' Smee called out .
`` Set her free , '' came the astonishing answer .
`` Free ! ''
`` Yes , cut her bonds and let her go . ''
`` But , captain -- '' `` At once , d'ye hear , '' cried Peter , `` or I 'll plunge my hook in you . ''
`` This is queer ! ''
Smee gasped .
`` Better do what the captain orders , '' said Starkey nervously .
`` Ay , ay . ''
Smee said , and he cut Tiger Lily 's cords .
At once like an eel she slid between Starkey 's legs into the water .
Of course Wendy was very elated over Peter 's cleverness ; but she knew that he would be elated also and very likely crow and thus betray himself , so at once her hand went out to cover his mouth .
But it was stayed even in the act , for `` Boat ahoy ! ''
rang over the lagoon in Hook 's voice , and this time it was not Peter who had spoken .
Peter may have been about to crow , but his face puckered in a whistle of surprise instead .
`` Boat ahoy ! ''
again came the voice .
Now Wendy understood .
The real Hook was also in the water .
He was swimming to the boat , and as his men showed a light to guide him he had soon reached them .
In the light of the lantern Wendy saw his hook grip the boat 's side ; she saw his evil swarthy face as he rose dripping from the water , and , quaking , she would have liked to swim away , but Peter would not budge .
He was tingling with life and also top-heavy with conceit .
`` Am I not a wonder , oh , I am a wonder ! ''
he whispered to her , and though she thought so also , she was really glad for the sake of his reputation that no one heard him except herself .
He signed to her to listen .
The two pirates were very curious to know what had brought their captain to them , but he sat with his head on his hook in a position of profound melancholy .
`` Captain , is all well ? ''
they asked timidly , but he answered with a hollow moan .
`` He sighs , '' said Smee .
`` He sighs again , '' said Starkey .
`` And yet a third time he sighs , '' said Smee .
Then at last he spoke passionately .
`` The game 's up , '' he cried , `` those boys have found a mother . ''
Affrighted though she was , Wendy swelled with pride .
`` O evil day ! ''
cried Starkey .
`` What 's a mother ? ''
asked the ignorant Smee .
Wendy was so shocked that she exclaimed .
`` He does n't know ! ''
and always after this she felt that if you could have a pet pirate Smee would be her one .
Peter pulled her beneath the water , for Hook had started up , crying , `` What was that ? ''
`` I heard nothing , '' said Starkey , raising the lantern over the waters , and as the pirates looked they saw a strange sight .
It was the nest I have told you of , floating on the lagoon , and the Never bird was sitting on it .
`` See , '' said Hook in answer to Smee 's question , `` that is a mother .
What a lesson !
The nest must have fallen into the water , but would the mother desert her eggs ?
No . ''
There was a break in his voice , as if for a moment he recalled innocent days when -- but he brushed away this weakness with his hook .
Smee , much impressed , gazed at the bird as the nest was borne past , but the more suspicious Starkey said , `` If she is a mother , perhaps she is hanging about here to help Peter . ''
Hook winced .
`` Ay , '' he said , `` that is the fear that haunts me . ''
He was roused from this dejection by Smee 's eager voice .
`` Captain , '' said Smee , `` could we not kidnap these boys ' mother and make her our mother ? ''
`` It is a princely scheme , '' cried Hook , and at once it took practical shape in his great brain .
`` We will seize the children and carry them to the boat : the boys we will make walk the plank , and Wendy shall be our mother . ''
Again Wendy forgot herself .
`` Never ! ''
she cried , and bobbed .
`` What was that ? ''
But they could see nothing .
They thought it must have been a leaf in the wind .
`` Do you agree , my bullies ? ''
asked Hook .
`` There is my hand on it , '' they both said .
`` And there is my hook .
Swear . ''
They all swore .
By this time they were on the rock , and suddenly Hook remembered Tiger Lily .
`` Where is the redskin ? ''
he demanded abruptly .
He had a playful humour at moments , and they thought this was one of the moments .
`` That is all right , captain , '' Smee answered complacently ; `` we let her go . ''
`` Let her go ! ''
cried Hook . ''
'T was your own orders , '' the bo ` sun faltered .
`` You called over the water to us to let her go , '' said Starkey .
`` Brimstone and gall , '' thundered Hook , `` what cozening -LSB- cheating -RSB- is going on here ! ''
His face had gone black with rage , but he saw that they believed their words , and he was startled .
`` Lads , '' he said , shaking a little , `` I gave no such order . ''
`` It is passing queer , '' Smee said , and they all fidgeted uncomfortably .
Hook raised his voice , but there was a quiver in it .
`` Spirit that haunts this dark lagoon to-night , '' he cried , `` dost hear me ? ''
Of course Peter should have kept quiet , but of course he did not .
He immediately answered in Hook 's voice : `` Odds , bobs , hammer and tongs , I hear you . ''
In that supreme moment Hook did not blanch , even at the gills , but Smee and Starkey clung to each other in terror .
`` Who are you , stranger ?
Speak ! ''
Hook demanded .
`` I am James Hook , '' replied the voice , `` captain of the JOLLY ROGER . ''
`` You are not ; you are not , '' Hook cried hoarsely .
`` Brimstone and gall , '' the voice retorted , `` say that again , and I 'll cast anchor in you . ''
Hook tried a more ingratiating manner .
`` If you are Hook , '' he said almost humbly , `` come tell me , who am I ? ''
`` A codfish , '' replied the voice , `` only a codfish . ''
`` A codfish ! ''
Hook echoed blankly , and it was then , but not till then , that his proud spirit broke .
He saw his men draw back from him .
`` Have we been captained all this time by a codfish ! ''
they muttered .
`` It is lowering to our pride . ''
They were his dogs snapping at him , but , tragic figure though he had become , he scarcely heeded them .
Against such fearful evidence it was not their belief in him that he needed , it was his own .
He felt his ego slipping from him .
`` Do n't desert me , bully , '' he whispered hoarsely to it .
In his dark nature there was a touch of the feminine , as in all the great pirates , and it sometimes gave him intuitions .
Suddenly he tried the guessing game .
`` Hook , '' he called , `` have you another voice ? ''
Now Peter could never resist a game , and he answered blithely in his own voice , `` I have . ''
`` And another name ? ''
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Vegetable ? ''
asked Hook .
`` No . ''
`` Mineral ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Animal ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Man ? ''
`` No ! ''
This answer rang out scornfully .
`` Boy ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Ordinary boy ? ''
`` No ! ''
`` Wonderful boy ? ''
To Wendy 's pain the answer that rang out this time was `` Yes . ''
`` Are you in England ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Are you here ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Hook was completely puzzled .
`` You ask him some questions , '' he said to the others , wiping his damp brow .
Smee reflected .
`` I ca n't think of a thing , '' he said regretfully .
`` Ca n't guess , ca n't guess ! ''
crowed Peter .
`` Do you give it up ? ''
Of course in his pride he was carrying the game too far , and the miscreants -LSB- villains -RSB- saw their chance .
`` Yes , yes , '' they answered eagerly .
`` Well , then , '' he cried , `` I am Peter Pan . ''
Pan !
In a moment Hook was himself again , and Smee and Starkey were his faithful henchmen .
`` Now we have him , '' Hook shouted .
`` Into the water , Smee .
Starkey , mind the boat .
Take him dead or alive ! ''
He leaped as he spoke , and simultaneously came the gay voice of Peter .
`` Are you ready , boys ? ''
`` Ay , ay , '' from various parts of the lagoon .
`` Then lam into the pirates . ''
The fight was short and sharp .
First to draw blood was John , who gallantly climbed into the boat and held Starkey .
There was fierce struggle , in which the cutlass was torn from the pirate 's grasp .
He wriggled overboard and John leapt after him .
The dinghy drifted away .
Here and there a head bobbed up in the water , and there was a flash of steel followed by a cry or a whoop .
In the confusion some struck at their own side .
The corkscrew of Smee got Tootles in the fourth rib , but he was himself pinked -LSB- nicked -RSB- in turn by Curly .
Farther from the rock Starkey was pressing Slightly and the twins hard .
Where all this time was Peter ?
He was seeking bigger game .
The others were all brave boys , and they must not be blamed for backing from the pirate captain .
His iron claw made a circle of dead water round him , from which they fled like affrighted fishes .
But there was one who did not fear him : there was one prepared to enter that circle .
Strangely , it was not in the water that they met .
Hook rose to the rock to breathe , and at the same moment Peter scaled it on the opposite side .
The rock was slippery as a ball , and they had to crawl rather than climb .
Neither knew that the other was coming .
Each feeling for a grip met the other 's arm : in surprise they raised their heads ; their faces were almost touching ; so they met .
Some of the greatest heroes have confessed that just before they fell to -LSB- began combat -RSB- they had a sinking -LSB- feeling in the stomach -RSB- .
Had it been so with Peter at that moment I would admit it .
After all , he was the only man that the Sea-Cook had feared .
But Peter had no sinking , he had one feeling only , gladness ; and he gnashed his pretty teeth with joy .
Quick as thought he snatched a knife from Hook 's belt and was about to drive it home , when he saw that he was higher up the rock that his foe .
It would not have been fighting fair .
He gave the pirate a hand to help him up .
It was then that Hook bit him .
Not the pain of this but its unfairness was what dazed Peter .
It made him quite helpless .
He could only stare , horrified .
Every child is affected thus the first time he is treated unfairly .
All he thinks he has a right to when he comes to you to be yours is fairness .
After you have been unfair to him he will love you again , but will never afterwards be quite the same boy .
No one ever gets over the first unfairness ; no one except Peter .
He often met it , but he always forgot it .
I suppose that was the real difference between him and all the rest .
So when he met it now it was like the first time ; and he could just stare , helpless .
Twice the iron hand clawed him .
A few moments afterwards the other boys saw Hook in the water striking wildly for the ship ; no elation on the pestilent face now , only white fear , for the crocodile was in dogged pursuit of him .
On ordinary occasions the boys would have swum alongside cheering ; but now they were uneasy , for they had lost both Peter and Wendy , and were scouring the lagoon for them , calling them by name .
They found the dinghy and went home in it , shouting `` Peter , Wendy '' as they went , but no answer came save mocking laughter from the mermaids .
`` They must be swimming back or flying , '' the boys concluded .
They were not very anxious , because they had such faith in Peter .
They chuckled , boylike , because they would be late for bed ; and it was all mother Wendy 's fault !
When their voices died away there came cold silence over the lagoon , and then a feeble cry .
`` Help , help ! ''
Two small figures were beating against the rock ; the girl had fainted and lay on the boy 's arm .
With a last effort Peter pulled her up the rock and then lay down beside her .
Even as he also fainted he saw that the water was rising .
He knew that they would soon be drowned , but he could do no more .
As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wendy by the feet , and began pulling her softly into the water .
Peter , feeling her slip from him , woke with a start , and was just in time to draw her back .
But he had to tell her the truth .
`` We are on the rock , Wendy , '' he said , `` but it is growing smaller .
Soon the water will be over it . ''
She did not understand even now .
`` We must go , '' she said , almost brightly .
`` Yes , '' he answered faintly .
`` Shall we swim or fly , Peter ? ''
He had to tell her .
`` Do you think you could swim or fly as far as the island , Wendy , without my help ? ''
She had to admit that she was too tired .
He moaned .
`` What is it ? ''
she asked , anxious about him at once .
`` I ca n't help you , Wendy .
Hook wounded me .
I can neither fly nor swim . ''
`` Do you mean we shall both be drowned ? ''
`` Look how the water is rising . ''
They put their hands over their eyes to shut out the sight .
They thought they would soon be no more .
As they sat thus something brushed against Peter as light as a kiss , and stayed there , as if saying timidly , `` Can I be of any use ? ''
It was the tail of a kite , which Michael had made some days before .
It had torn itself out of his hand and floated away .
`` Michael 's kite , '' Peter said without interest , but next moment he had seized the tail , and was pulling the kite toward him .
`` It lifted Michael off the ground , '' he cried ; `` why should it not carry you ? ''
`` Both of us ! ''
`` It ca n't lift two ; Michael and Curly tried . ''
`` Let us draw lots , '' Wendy said bravely .
`` And you a lady ; never . ''
Already he had tied the tail round her .
She clung to him ; she refused to go without him ; but with a `` Good-bye , Wendy , '' he pushed her from the rock ; and in a few minutes she was borne out of his sight .
Peter was alone on the lagoon .
The rock was very small now ; soon it would be submerged .
Pale rays of light tiptoed across the waters ; and by and by there was to be heard a sound at once the most musical and the most melancholy in the world : the mermaids calling to the moon .
Peter was not quite like other boys ; but he was afraid at last .
A tremour ran through him , like a shudder passing over the sea ; but on the sea one shudder follows another till there are hundreds of them , and Peter felt just the one .
Next moment he was standing erect on the rock again , with that smile on his face and a drum beating within him .
It was saying , `` To die will be an awfully big adventure . ''
Chapter 9 THE NEVER BIRD The last sound Peter heard before he was quite alone were the mermaids retiring one by one to their bedchambers under the sea .
He was too far away to hear their doors shut ; but every door in the coral caves where they live rings a tiny bell when it opens or closes -LRB- as in all the nicest houses on the mainland -RRB- , and he heard the bells .
Steadily the waters rose till they were nibbling at his feet ; and to pass the time until they made their final gulp , he watched the only thing on the lagoon .
He thought it was a piece of floating paper , perhaps part of the kite , and wondered idly how long it would take to drift ashore .
Presently he noticed as an odd thing that it was undoubtedly out upon the lagoon with some definite purpose , for it was fighting the tide , and sometimes winning ; and when it won , Peter , always sympathetic to the weaker side , could not help clapping ; it was such a gallant piece of paper .
It was not really a piece of paper ; it was the Never bird , making desperate efforts to reach Peter on the nest .
By working her wings , in a way she had learned since the nest fell into the water , she was able to some extent to guide her strange craft , but by the time Peter recognised her she was very exhausted .
She had come to save him , to give him her nest , though there were eggs in it .
I rather wonder at the bird , for though he had been nice to her , he had also sometimes tormented her .
I can suppose only that , like Mrs. Darling and the rest of them , she was melted because he had all his first teeth .
She called out to him what she had come for , and he called out to her what she was doing there ; but of course neither of them understood the other 's language .
In fanciful stories people can talk to the birds freely , and I wish for the moment I could pretend that this were such a story , and say that Peter replied intelligently to the Never bird ; but truth is best , and I want to tell you only what really happened .
Well , not only could they not understand each other , but they forgot their manners .
`` I -- want -- you -- to -- get -- into -- the -- nest , '' the bird called , speaking as slowly and distinctly as possible , `` and -- then -- you -- can -- drift -- ashore , but -- I -- am -- too -- tired -- to -- bring -- it -- any -- nearer -- so -- you -- must -- try to -- swim -- to -- it . ''
`` What are you quacking about ? ''
Peter answered .
`` Why do n't you let the nest drift as usual ? ''
`` I -- want -- you -- '' the bird said , and repeated it all over .
Then Peter tried slow and distinct .
`` What -- are -- you -- quacking -- about ? ''
and so on .
The Never bird became irritated ; they have very short tempers .
`` You dunderheaded little jay , '' she screamed , `` Why do n't you do as I tell you ? ''
Peter felt that she was calling him names , and at a venture he retorted hotly : `` So are you ! ''
Then rather curiously they both snapped out the same remark : `` Shut up ! ''
`` Shut up ! ''
Nevertheless the bird was determined to save him if she could , and by one last mighty effort she propelled the nest against the rock .
Then up she flew ; deserting her eggs , so as to make her meaning clear .
Then at last he understood , and clutched the nest and waved his thanks to the bird as she fluttered overhead .
It was not to receive his thanks , however , that she hung there in the sky ; it was not even to watch him get into the nest ; it was to see what he did with her eggs .
There were two large white eggs , and Peter lifted them up and reflected .
The bird covered her face with her wings , so as not to see the last of them ; but she could not help peeping between the feathers .
I forget whether I have told you that there was a stave on the rock , driven into it by some buccaneers of long ago to mark the site of buried treasure .
The children had discovered the glittering hoard , and when in a mischievous mood used to fling showers of moidores , diamonds , pearls and pieces of eight to the gulls , who pounced upon them for food , and then flew away , raging at the scurvy trick that had been played upon them .
The stave was still there , and on it Starkey had hung his hat , a deep tarpaulin , watertight , with a broad brim .
Peter put the eggs into this hat and set it on the lagoon .
It floated beautifully .
The Never bird saw at once what he was up to , and screamed her admiration of him ; and , alas , Peter crowed his agreement with her .
Then he got into the nest , reared the stave in it as a mast , and hung up his shirt for a sail .
At the same moment the bird fluttered down upon the hat and once more sat snugly on her eggs .
She drifted in one direction , and he was borne off in another , both cheering .
Of course when Peter landed he beached his barque -LSB- small ship , actually the Never Bird 's nest in this particular case in point -RSB- in a place where the bird would easily find it ; but the hat was such a great success that she abandoned the nest .
It drifted about till it went to pieces , and often Starkey came to the shore of the lagoon , and with many bitter feelings watched the bird sitting on his hat .
As we shall not see her again , it may be worth mentioning here that all Never birds now build in that shape of nest , with a broad brim on which the youngsters take an airing .
Great were the rejoicings when Peter reached the home under the ground almost as soon as Wendy , who had been carried hither and thither by the kite .
Every boy had adventures to tell ; but perhaps the biggest adventure of all was that they were several hours late for bed .
This so inflated them that they did various dodgy things to get staying up still longer , such as demanding bandages ; but Wendy , though glorying in having them all home again safe and sound , was scandalised by the lateness of the hour , and cried , `` To bed , to bed , '' in a voice that had to be obeyed .
Next day , however , she was awfully tender , and gave out bandages to every one , and they played till bed-time at limping about and carrying their arms in slings .
Chapter 10 THE HAPPY HOME One important result of the brush -LSB- with the pirates -RSB- on the lagoon was that it made the redskins their friends .
Peter had saved Tiger Lily from a dreadful fate , and now there was nothing she and her braves would not do for him .
All night they sat above , keeping watch over the home under the ground and awaiting the big attack by the pirates which obviously could not be much longer delayed .
Even by day they hung about , smoking the pipe of peace , and looking almost as if they wanted tit-bits to eat .
They called Peter the Great White Father , prostrating themselves -LSB- lying down -RSB- before him ; and he liked this tremendously , so that it was not really good for him .
`` The great white father , '' he would say to them in a very lordly manner , as they grovelled at his feet , `` is glad to see the Piccaninny warriors protecting his wigwam from the pirates . ''
`` Me Tiger Lily , '' that lovely creature would reply .
`` Peter Pan save me , me his velly nice friend .
Me no let pirates hurt him . ''
She was far too pretty to cringe in this way , but Peter thought it his due , and he would answer condescendingly , `` It is good .
Peter Pan has spoken . ''
Always when he said , `` Peter Pan has spoken , '' it meant that they must now shut up , and they accepted it humbly in that spirit ; but they were by no means so respectful to the other boys , whom they looked upon as just ordinary braves .
They said `` How-do ? ''
to them , and things like that ; and what annoyed the boys was that Peter seemed to think this all right .
Secretly Wendy sympathised with them a little , but she was far too loyal a housewife to listen to any complaints against father .
`` Father knows best , '' she always said , whatever her private opinion must be .
Her private opinion was that the redskins should not call her a squaw .
We have now reached the evening that was to be known among them as the Night of Nights , because of its adventures and their upshot .
The day , as if quietly gathering its forces , had been almost uneventful , and now the redskins in their blankets were at their posts above , while , below , the children were having their evening meal ; all except Peter , who had gone out to get the time .
The way you got the time on the island was to find the crocodile , and then stay near him till the clock struck .
The meal happened to be a make-believe tea , and they sat around the board , guzzling in their greed ; and really , what with their chatter and recriminations , the noise , as Wendy said , was positively deafening .
To be sure , she did not mind noise , but she simply would not have them grabbing things , and then excusing themselves by saying that Tootles had pushed their elbow .
There was a fixed rule that they must never hit back at meals , but should refer the matter of dispute to Wendy by raising the right arm politely and saying , `` I complain of so-and-so ; '' but what usually happened was that they forgot to do this or did it too much .
`` Silence , '' cried Wendy when for the twentieth time she had told them that they were not all to speak at once .
`` Is your mug empty , Slightly darling ? ''
`` Not quite empty , mummy , '' Slightly said , after looking into an imaginary mug .
`` He has n't even begun to drink his milk , '' Nibs interposed .
This was telling , and Slightly seized his chance .
`` I complain of Nibs , '' he cried promptly .
John , however , had held up his hand first .
`` Well , John ? ''
`` May I sit in Peter 's chair , as he is not here ? ''
`` Sit in father 's chair , John ! ''
Wendy was scandalised .
`` Certainly not . ''
`` He is not really our father , '' John answered .
`` He did n't even know how a father does till I showed him . ''
This was grumbling .
`` We complain of John , '' cried the twins .
Tootles held up his hand .
He was so much the humblest of them , indeed he was the only humble one , that Wendy was specially gentle with him .
`` I do n't suppose , '' Tootles said diffidently -LSB- bashfully or timidly -RSB- , `` that I could be father . ''
`` No , Tootles . ''
Once Tootles began , which was not very often , he had a silly way of going on .
`` As I ca n't be father , '' he said heavily , `` I do n't suppose , Michael , you would let me be baby ? ''
`` No , I wo n't , '' Michael rapped out .
He was already in his basket .
`` As I ca n't be baby , '' Tootles said , getting heavier and heavier and heavier , `` do you think I could be a twin ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' replied the twins ; `` it 's awfully difficult to be a twin . ''
`` As I ca n't be anything important , '' said Tootles , `` would any of you like to see me do a trick ? ''
`` No , '' they all replied .
Then at last he stopped .
`` I had n't really any hope , '' he said .
The hateful telling broke out again .
`` Slightly is coughing on the table . ''
`` The twins began with cheese-cakes . ''
`` Curly is taking both butter and honey . ''
`` Nibs is speaking with his mouth full . ''
`` I complain of the twins . ''
`` I complain of Curly . ''
`` I complain of Nibs . ''
`` Oh dear , oh dear , '' cried Wendy , `` I 'm sure I sometimes think that spinsters are to be envied . ''
She told them to clear away , and sat down to her work-basket , a heavy load of stockings and every knee with a hole in it as usual .
`` Wendy , '' remonstrated -LSB- scolded -RSB- Michael , `` I 'm too big for a cradle . ''
`` I must have somebody in a cradle , '' she said almost tartly , `` and you are the littlest .
A cradle is such a nice homely thing to have about a house . ''
While she sewed they played around her ; such a group of happy faces and dancing limbs lit up by that romantic fire .
It had become a very familiar scene , this , in the home under the ground , but we are looking on it for the last time .
There was a step above , and Wendy , you may be sure , was the first to recognize it .
`` Children , I hear your father 's step .
He likes you to meet him at the door . ''
Above , the redskins crouched before Peter .
`` Watch well , braves .
I have spoken . ''
And then , as so often before , the gay children dragged him from his tree .
As so often before , but never again .
He had brought nuts for the boys as well as the correct time for Wendy .
`` Peter , you just spoil them , you know , '' Wendy simpered -LSB- exaggerated a smile -RSB- .
`` Ah , old lady , '' said Peter , hanging up his gun .
`` It was me told him mothers are called old lady , '' Michael whispered to Curly .
`` I complain of Michael , '' said Curly instantly .
The first twin came to Peter .
`` Father , we want to dance . ''
`` Dance away , my little man , '' said Peter , who was in high good humour .
`` But we want you to dance . ''
Peter was really the best dancer among them , but he pretended to be scandalised .
`` Me !
My old bones would rattle ! ''
`` And mummy too . ''
`` What , '' cried Wendy , `` the mother of such an armful , dance ! ''
`` But on a Saturday night , '' Slightly insinuated .
It was not really Saturday night , at least it may have been , for they had long lost count of the days ; but always if they wanted to do anything special they said this was Saturday night , and then they did it .
`` Of course it is Saturday night , Peter , '' Wendy said , relenting .
`` People of our figure , Wendy ! ''
`` But it is only among our own progeny -LSB- children -RSB- . ''
`` True , true . ''
So they were told they could dance , but they must put on their nighties first .
`` Ah , old lady , '' Peter said aside to Wendy , warming himself by the fire and looking down at her as she sat turning a heel , `` there is nothing more pleasant of an evening for you and me when the day 's toil is over than to rest by the fire with the little ones near by . ''
`` It is sweet , Peter , is n't it ? ''
Wendy said , frightfully gratified .
`` Peter , I think Curly has your nose . ''
`` Michael takes after you . ''
She went to him and put her hand on his shoulder .
`` Dear Peter , '' she said , `` with such a large family , of course , I have now passed my best , but you do n't want to -LSB- ex -RSB- change me , do you ? ''
`` No , Wendy . ''
Certainly he did not want a change , but he looked at her uncomfortably , blinking , you know , like one not sure whether he was awake or asleep .
`` Peter , what is it ? ''
`` I was just thinking , '' he said , a little scared .
`` It is only make-believe , is n't it , that I am their father ? ''
`` Oh yes , '' Wendy said primly -LSB- formally and properly -RSB- .
`` You see , '' he continued apologetically , `` it would make me seem so old to be their real father . ''
`` But they are ours , Peter , yours and mine . ''
`` But not really , Wendy ? ''
he asked anxiously .
`` Not if you do n't wish it , '' she replied ; and she distinctly heard his sigh of relief .
`` Peter , '' she asked , trying to speak firmly , `` what are your exact feelings to -LSB- about -RSB- me ? ''
`` Those of a devoted son , Wendy . ''
`` I thought so , '' she said , and went and sat by herself at the extreme end of the room .
`` You are so queer , '' he said , frankly puzzled , `` and Tiger Lily is just the same .
There is something she wants to be to me , but she says it is not my mother . ''
`` No , indeed , it is not , '' Wendy replied with frightful emphasis .
Now we know why she was prejudiced against the redskins .
`` Then what is it ? ''
`` It is n't for a lady to tell . ''
`` Oh , very well , '' Peter said , a little nettled .
`` Perhaps Tinker Bell will tell me . ''
`` Oh yes , Tinker Bell will tell you , '' Wendy retorted scornfully .
`` She is an abandoned little creature . ''
Here Tink , who was in her bedroom , eavesdropping , squeaked out something impudent .
`` She says she glories in being abandoned , '' Peter interpreted .
He had a sudden idea .
`` Perhaps Tink wants to be my mother ? ''
`` You silly ass ! ''
cried Tinker Bell in a passion .
She had said it so often that Wendy needed no translation .
`` I almost agree with her , '' Wendy snapped .
Fancy Wendy snapping !
But she had been much tried , and she little knew what was to happen before the night was out .
If she had known she would not have snapped .
None of them knew .
Perhaps it was best not to know .
Their ignorance gave them one more glad hour ; and as it was to be their last hour on the island , let us rejoice that there were sixty glad minutes in it .
They sang and danced in their night-gowns .
Such a deliciously creepy song it was , in which they pretended to be frightened at their own shadows , little witting that so soon shadows would close in upon them , from whom they would shrink in real fear .
So uproariously gay was the dance , and how they buffeted each other on the bed and out of it !
It was a pillow fight rather than a dance , and when it was finished , the pillows insisted on one bout more , like partners who know that they may never meet again .
The stories they told , before it was time for Wendy 's good-night story !
Even Slightly tried to tell a story that night , but the beginning was so fearfully dull that it appalled not only the others but himself , and he said happily : `` Yes , it is a dull beginning .
I say , let us pretend that it is the end . ''
And then at last they all got into bed for Wendy 's story , the story they loved best , the story Peter hated .
Usually when she began to tell this story he left the room or put his hands over his ears ; and possibly if he had done either of those things this time they might all still be on the island .
But to-night he remained on his stool ; and we shall see what happened .
Chapter 11 WENDY 'S STORY `` Listen , then , '' said Wendy , settling down to her story , with Michael at her feet and seven boys in the bed .
`` There was once a gentleman -- '' `` I had rather he had been a lady , '' Curly said .
`` I wish he had been a white rat , '' said Nibs .
`` Quiet , '' their mother admonished -LSB- cautioned -RSB- them .
`` There was a lady also , and -- '' `` Oh , mummy , '' cried the first twin , `` you mean that there is a lady also , do n't you ?
She is not dead , is she ? ''
`` Oh , no . ''
`` I am awfully glad she is n't dead , '' said Tootles .
`` Are you glad , John ? ''
`` Of course I am . ''
`` Are you glad , Nibs ? ''
`` Rather . ''
`` Are you glad , Twins ? ''
`` We are glad . ''
`` Oh dear , '' sighed Wendy .
`` Little less noise there , '' Peter called out , determined that she should have fair play , however beastly a story it might be in his opinion .
`` The gentleman 's name , '' Wendy continued , `` was Mr. Darling , and her name was Mrs. Darling . ''
`` I knew them , '' John said , to annoy the others .
`` I think I knew them , '' said Michael rather doubtfully .
`` They were married , you know , '' explained Wendy , `` and what do you think they had ? ''
`` White rats , '' cried Nibs , inspired .
`` No . ''
`` It 's awfully puzzling , '' said Tootles , who knew the story by heart .
`` Quiet , Tootles .
They had three descendants . ''
`` What is descendants ? ''
`` Well , you are one , Twin . ''
`` Did you hear that , John ?
I am a descendant . ''
`` Descendants are only children , '' said John .
`` Oh dear , oh dear , '' sighed Wendy .
`` Now these three children had a faithful nurse called Nana ; but Mr. Darling was angry with her and chained her up in the yard , and so all the children flew away . ''
`` It 's an awfully good story , '' said Nibs .
`` They flew away , '' Wendy continued , `` to the Neverland , where the lost children are . ''
`` I just thought they did , '' Curly broke in excitedly .
`` I do n't know how it is , but I just thought they did ! ''
`` O Wendy , '' cried Tootles , `` was one of the lost children called Tootles ? ''
`` Yes , he was . ''
`` I am in a story .
Hurrah , I am in a story , Nibs . ''
`` Hush .
Now I want you to consider the feelings of the unhappy parents with all their children flown away . ''
`` Oo ! ''
they all moaned , though they were not really considering the feelings of the unhappy parents one jot .
`` Think of the empty beds ! ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` It 's awfully sad , '' the first twin said cheerfully .
`` I do n't see how it can have a happy ending , '' said the second twin .
`` Do you , Nibs ? ''
`` I 'm frightfully anxious . ''
`` If you knew how great is a mother 's love , '' Wendy told them triumphantly , `` you would have no fear . ''
She had now come to the part that Peter hated .
`` I do like a mother 's love , '' said Tootles , hitting Nibs with a pillow .
`` Do you like a mother 's love , Nibs ? ''
`` I do just , '' said Nibs , hitting back .
`` You see , '' Wendy said complacently , `` our heroine knew that the mother would always leave the window open for her children to fly back by ; so they stayed away for years and had a lovely time . ''
`` Did they ever go back ? ''
`` Let us now , '' said Wendy , bracing herself up for her finest effort , `` take a peep into the future ; '' and they all gave themselves the twist that makes peeps into the future easier .
`` Years have rolled by , and who is this elegant lady of uncertain age alighting at London Station ? ''
`` O Wendy , who is she ? ''
cried Nibs , every bit as excited as if he did n't know .
`` Can it be -- yes -- no -- it is -- the fair Wendy ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
`` And who are the two noble portly figures accompanying her , now grown to man 's estate ?
Can they be John and Michael ?
They are ! ''
`` Oh ! '' ''
` See , dear brothers , ' says Wendy pointing upwards , ` there is the window still standing open .
Ah , now we are rewarded for our sublime faith in a mother 's love . '
So up they flew to their mummy and daddy , and pen can not describe the happy scene , over which we draw a veil . ''
That was the story , and they were as pleased with it as the fair narrator herself .
Everything just as it should be , you see .
Off we skip like the most heartless things in the world , which is what children are , but so attractive ; and we have an entirely selfish time , and then when we have need of special attention we nobly return for it , confident that we shall be rewarded instead of smacked .
So great indeed was their faith in a mother 's love that they felt they could afford to be callous for a bit longer .
But there was one there who knew better , and when Wendy finished he uttered a hollow groan .
`` What is it , Peter ? ''
she cried , running to him , thinking he was ill .
She felt him solicitously , lower down than his chest .
`` Where is it , Peter ? ''
`` It is n't that kind of pain , '' Peter replied darkly .
`` Then what kind is it ? ''
`` Wendy , you are wrong about mothers . ''
They all gathered round him in affright , so alarming was his agitation ; and with a fine candour he told them what he had hitherto concealed .
`` Long ago , '' he said , `` I thought like you that my mother would always keep the window open for me , so I stayed away for moons and moons and moons , and then flew back ; but the window was barred , for mother had forgotten all about me , and there was another little boy sleeping in my bed . ''
I am not sure that this was true , but Peter thought it was true ; and it scared them .
`` Are you sure mothers are like that ? ''
`` Yes . ''
So this was the truth about mothers .
The toads !
Still it is best to be careful ; and no one knows so quickly as a child when he should give in .
`` Wendy , let us -LSB- let 's -RSB- go home , '' cried John and Michael together .
`` Yes , '' she said , clutching them .
`` Not to-night ? ''
asked the lost boys bewildered .
They knew in what they called their hearts that one can get on quite well without a mother , and that it is only the mothers who think you ca n't .
`` At once , '' Wendy replied resolutely , for the horrible thought had come to her : `` Perhaps mother is in half mourning by this time . ''
This dread made her forgetful of what must be Peter 's feelings , and she said to him rather sharply , `` Peter , will you make the necessary arrangements ? ''
`` If you wish it , '' he replied , as coolly as if she had asked him to pass the nuts .
Not so much as a sorry-to-lose-you between them !
If she did not mind the parting , he was going to show her , was Peter , that neither did he .
But of course he cared very much ; and he was so full of wrath against grown-ups , who , as usual , were spoiling everything , that as soon as he got inside his tree he breathed intentionally quick short breaths at the rate of about five to a second .
He did this because there is a saying in the Neverland that , every time you breathe , a grown-up dies ; and Peter was killing them off vindictively as fast as possible .
Then having given the necessary instructions to the redskins he returned to the home , where an unworthy scene had been enacted in his absence .
Panic-stricken at the thought of losing Wendy the lost boys had advanced upon her threateningly .
`` It will be worse than before she came , '' they cried .
`` We sha n't let her go . ''
`` Let 's keep her prisoner . ''
`` Ay , chain her up . ''
In her extremity an instinct told her to which of them to turn .
`` Tootles , '' she cried , `` I appeal to you . ''
Was it not strange ?
She appealed to Tootles , quite the silliest one .
Grandly , however , did Tootles respond .
For that one moment he dropped his silliness and spoke with dignity .
`` I am just Tootles , '' he said , `` and nobody minds me .
But the first who does not behave to Wendy like an English gentleman I will blood him severely . ''
He drew back his hanger ; and for that instant his sun was at noon .
The others held back uneasily .
Then Peter returned , and they saw at once that they would get no support from him .
He would keep no girl in the Neverland against her will .
`` Wendy , '' he said , striding up and down , `` I have asked the redskins to guide you through the wood , as flying tires you so . ''
`` Thank you , Peter . ''
`` Then , '' he continued , in the short sharp voice of one accustomed to be obeyed , `` Tinker Bell will take you across the sea .
Wake her , Nibs . ''
Nibs had to knock twice before he got an answer , though Tink had really been sitting up in bed listening for some time .
`` Who are you ?
How dare you ?
Go away , '' she cried .
`` You are to get up , Tink , '' Nibs called , `` and take Wendy on a journey . ''
Of course Tink had been delighted to hear that Wendy was going ; but she was jolly well determined not to be her courier , and she said so in still more offensive language .
Then she pretended to be asleep again .
`` She says she wo n't ! ''
Nibs exclaimed , aghast at such insubordination , whereupon Peter went sternly toward the young lady 's chamber .
`` Tink , '' he rapped out , `` if you do n't get up and dress at once I will open the curtains , and then we shall all see you in your negligee -LSB- nightgown -RSB- . ''
This made her leap to the floor .
`` Who said I was n't getting up ? ''
she cried .
In the meantime the boys were gazing very forlornly at Wendy , now equipped with John and Michael for the journey .
By this time they were dejected , not merely because they were about to lose her , but also because they felt that she was going off to something nice to which they had not been invited .
Novelty was beckoning to them as usual .
Crediting them with a nobler feeling Wendy melted .
`` Dear ones , '' she said , `` if you will all come with me I feel almost sure I can get my father and mother to adopt you . ''
The invitation was meant specially for Peter , but each of the boys was thinking exclusively of himself , and at once they jumped with joy .
`` But wo n't they think us rather a handful ? ''
Nibs asked in the middle of his jump .
`` Oh no , '' said Wendy , rapidly thinking it out , `` it will only mean having a few beds in the drawing-room ; they can be hidden behind the screens on first Thursdays . ''
`` Peter , can we go ? ''
they all cried imploringly .
They took it for granted that if they went he would go also , but really they scarcely cared .
Thus children are ever ready , when novelty knocks , to desert their dearest ones .
`` All right , '' Peter replied with a bitter smile , and immediately they rushed to get their things .
`` And now , Peter , '' Wendy said , thinking she had put everything right , `` I am going to give you your medicine before you go . ''
She loved to give them medicine , and undoubtedly gave them too much .
Of course it was only water , but it was out of a bottle , and she always shook the bottle and counted the drops , which gave it a certain medicinal quality .
On this occasion , however , she did not give Peter his draught -LSB- portion -RSB- , for just as she had prepared it , she saw a look on his face that made her heart sink .
`` Get your things , Peter , '' she cried , shaking .
`` No , '' he answered , pretending indifference , `` I am not going with you , Wendy . ''
`` Yes , Peter . ''
`` No . ''
To show that her departure would leave him unmoved , he skipped up and down the room , playing gaily on his heartless pipes .
She had to run about after him , though it was rather undignified .
`` To find your mother , '' she coaxed .
Now , if Peter had ever quite had a mother , he no longer missed her .
He could do very well without one .
He had thought them out , and remembered only their bad points .
`` No , no , '' he told Wendy decisively ; `` perhaps she would say I was old , and I just want always to be a little boy and to have fun . ''
`` But , Peter -- '' `` No . ''
And so the others had to be told .
`` Peter is n't coming . ''
Peter not coming !
They gazed blankly at him , their sticks over their backs , and on each stick a bundle .
Their first thought was that if Peter was not going he had probably changed his mind about letting them go .
But he was far too proud for that .
`` If you find your mothers , '' he said darkly , `` I hope you will like them . ''
The awful cynicism of this made an uncomfortable impression , and most of them began to look rather doubtful .
After all , their faces said , were they not noodles to want to go ?
`` Now then , '' cried Peter , `` no fuss , no blubbering ; good-bye , Wendy ; '' and he held out his hand cheerily , quite as if they must really go now , for he had something important to do .
She had to take his hand , and there was no indication that he would prefer a thimble .
`` You will remember about changing your flannels , Peter ? ''
she said , lingering over him .
She was always so particular about their flannels .
`` Yes . ''
`` And you will take your medicine ? ''
`` Yes . ''
That seemed to be everything , and an awkward pause followed .
Peter , however , was not the kind that breaks down before other people .
`` Are you ready , Tinker Bell ? ''
he called out .
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Then lead the way . ''
Tink darted up the nearest tree ; but no one followed her , for it was at this moment that the pirates made their dreadful attack upon the redskins .
Above , where all had been so still , the air was rent with shrieks and the clash of steel .
Below , there was dead silence .
Mouths opened and remained open .
Wendy fell on her knees , but her arms were extended toward Peter .
All arms were extended to him , as if suddenly blown in his direction ; they were beseeching him mutely not to desert them .
As for Peter , he seized his sword , the same he thought he had slain Barbecue with , and the lust of battle was in his eye .
Chapter 12 THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF The pirate attack had been a complete surprise : a sure proof that the unscrupulous Hook had conducted it improperly , for to surprise redskins fairly is beyond the wit of the white man .
By all the unwritten laws of savage warfare it is always the redskin who attacks , and with the wiliness of his race he does it just before the dawn , at which time he knows the courage of the whites to be at its lowest ebb .
The white men have in the meantime made a rude stockade on the summit of yonder undulating ground , at the foot of which a stream runs , for it is destruction to be too far from water .
There they await the onslaught , the inexperienced ones clutching their revolvers and treading on twigs , but the old hands sleeping tranquilly until just before the dawn .
Through the long black night the savage scouts wriggle , snake-like , among the grass without stirring a blade .
The brushwood closes behind them , as silently as sand into which a mole has dived .
Not a sound is to be heard , save when they give vent to a wonderful imitation of the lonely call of the coyote .
The cry is answered by other braves ; and some of them do it even better than the coyotes , who are not very good at it .
So the chill hours wear on , and the long suspense is horribly trying to the paleface who has to live through it for the first time ; but to the trained hand those ghastly calls and still ghastlier silences are but an intimation of how the night is marching .
That this was the usual procedure was so well known to Hook that in disregarding it he can not be excused on the plea of ignorance .
The Piccaninnies , on their part , trusted implicitly to his honour , and their whole action of the night stands out in marked contrast to his .
They left nothing undone that was consistent with the reputation of their tribe .
With that alertness of the senses which is at once the marvel and despair of civilised peoples , they knew that the pirates were on the island from the moment one of them trod on a dry stick ; and in an incredibly short space of time the coyote cries began .
Every foot of ground between the spot where Hook had landed his forces and the home under the trees was stealthily examined by braves wearing their mocassins with the heels in front .
They found only one hillock with a stream at its base , so that Hook had no choice ; here he must establish himself and wait for just before the dawn .
Everything being thus mapped out with almost diabolical cunning , the main body of the redskins folded their blankets around them , and in the phlegmatic manner that is to them , the pearl of manhood squatted above the children 's home , awaiting the cold moment when they should deal pale death .
Here dreaming , though wide-awake , of the exquisite tortures to which they were to put him at break of day , those confiding savages were found by the treacherous Hook .
From the accounts afterwards supplied by such of the scouts as escaped the carnage , he does not seem even to have paused at the rising ground , though it is certain that in that grey light he must have seen it : no thought of waiting to be attacked appears from first to last to have visited his subtle mind ; he would not even hold off till the night was nearly spent ; on he pounded with no policy but to fall to -LSB- get into combat -RSB- .
What could the bewildered scouts do , masters as they were of every war-like artifice save this one , but trot helplessly after him , exposing themselves fatally to view , while they gave pathetic utterance to the coyote cry .
Around the brave Tiger Lily were a dozen of her stoutest warriors , and they suddenly saw the perfidious pirates bearing down upon them .
Fell from their eyes then the film through which they had looked at victory .
No more would they torture at the stake .
For them the happy hunting-grounds was now .
They knew it ; but as their father 's sons they acquitted themselves .
Even then they had time to gather in a phalanx -LSB- dense formation -RSB- that would have been hard to break had they risen quickly , but this they were forbidden to do by the traditions of their race .
It is written that the noble savage must never express surprise in the presence of the white .
Thus terrible as the sudden appearance of the pirates must have been to them , they remained stationary for a moment , not a muscle moving ; as if the foe had come by invitation .
Then , indeed , the tradition gallantly upheld , they seized their weapons , and the air was torn with the war-cry ; but it was now too late .
It is no part of ours to describe what was a massacre rather than a fight .
Thus perished many of the flower of the Piccaninny tribe .
Not all unavenged did they die , for with Lean Wolf fell Alf Mason , to disturb the Spanish Main no more , and among others who bit the dust were Geo .
Scourie , Chas .
Turley , and the Alsatian Foggerty .
Turley fell to the tomahawk of the terrible Panther , who ultimately cut a way through the pirates with Tiger Lily and a small remnant of the tribe .
To what extent Hook is to blame for his tactics on this occasion is for the historian to decide .
Had he waited on the rising ground till the proper hour he and his men would probably have been butchered ; and in judging him it is only fair to take this into account .
What he should perhaps have done was to acquaint his opponents that he proposed to follow a new method .
On the other hand , this , as destroying the element of surprise , would have made his strategy of no avail , so that the whole question is beset with difficulties .
One can not at least withhold a reluctant admiration for the wit that had conceived so bold a scheme , and the fell -LSB- deadly -RSB- genius with which it was carried out .
What were his own feelings about himself at that triumphant moment ?
Fain -LSB- gladly -RSB- would his dogs have known , as breathing heavily and wiping their cutlasses , they gathered at a discreet distance from his hook , and squinted through their ferret eyes at this extraordinary man .
Elation must have been in his heart , but his face did not reflect it : ever a dark and solitary enigma , he stood aloof from his followers in spirit as in substance .
The night 's work was not yet over , for it was not the redskins he had come out to destroy ; they were but the bees to be smoked , so that he should get at the honey .
It was Pan he wanted , Pan and Wendy and their band , but chiefly Pan .
Peter was such a small boy that one tends to wonder at the man 's hatred of him .
True he had flung Hook 's arm to the crocodile , but even this and the increased insecurity of life to which it led , owing to the crocodile 's pertinacity -LSB- persistance -RSB- , hardly account for a vindictiveness so relentless and malignant .
The truth is that there was a something about Peter which goaded the pirate captain to frenzy .
It was not his courage , it was not his engaging appearance , it was not -- .
There is no beating about the bush , for we know quite well what it was , and have got to tell .
It was Peter 's cockiness .
This had got on Hook 's nerves ; it made his iron claw twitch , and at night it disturbed him like an insect .
While Peter lived , the tortured man felt that he was a lion in a cage into which a sparrow had come .
The question now was how to get down the trees , or how to get his dogs down ?
He ran his greedy eyes over them , searching for the thinnest ones .
They wriggled uncomfortably , for they knew he would not scruple -LSB- hesitate -RSB- to ram them down with poles .
In the meantime , what of the boys ?
We have seen them at the first clang of the weapons , turned as it were into stone figures , open-mouthed , all appealing with outstretched arms to Peter ; and we return to them as their mouths close , and their arms fall to their sides .
The pandemonium above has ceased almost as suddenly as it arose , passed like a fierce gust of wind ; but they know that in the passing it has determined their fate .
Which side had won ?
The pirates , listening avidly at the mouths of the trees , heard the question put by every boy , and alas , they also heard Peter 's answer .
`` If the redskins have won , '' he said , `` they will beat the tom-tom ; it is always their sign of victory . ''
Now Smee had found the tom-tom , and was at that moment sitting on it .
`` You will never hear the tom-tom again , '' he muttered , but inaudibly of course , for strict silence had been enjoined -LSB- urged -RSB- .
To his amazement Hook signed him to beat the tom-tom , and slowly there came to Smee an understanding of the dreadful wickedness of the order .
Never , probably , had this simple man admired Hook so much .
Twice Smee beat upon the instrument , and then stopped to listen gleefully .
`` The tom-tom , '' the miscreants heard Peter cry ; `` an Indian victory ! ''
The doomed children answered with a cheer that was music to the black hearts above , and almost immediately they repeated their good-byes to Peter .
This puzzled the pirates , but all their other feelings were swallowed by a base delight that the enemy were about to come up the trees .
They smirked at each other and rubbed their hands .
Rapidly and silently Hook gave his orders : one man to each tree , and the others to arrange themselves in a line two yards apart .
Chapter 13 DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES ?
The more quickly this horror is disposed of the better .
The first to emerge from his tree was Curly .
He rose out of it into the arms of Cecco , who flung him to Smee , who flung him to Starkey , who flung him to Bill Jukes , who flung him to Noodler , and so he was tossed from one to another till he fell at the feet of the black pirate .
All the boys were plucked from their trees in this ruthless manner ; and several of them were in the air at a time , like bales of goods flung from hand to hand .
A different treatment was accorded to Wendy , who came last .
With ironical politeness Hook raised his hat to her , and , offering her his arm , escorted her to the spot where the others were being gagged .
He did it with such an air , he was so frightfully DISTINGUE -LSB- imposingly distinguished -RSB- , that she was too fascinated to cry out .
She was only a little girl .
Perhaps it is tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Hook entranced her , and we tell on her only because her slip led to strange results .
Had she haughtily unhanded him -LRB- and we should have loved to write it of her -RRB- , she would have been hurled through the air like the others , and then Hook would probably not have been present at the tying of the children ; and had he not been at the tying he would not have discovered Slightly 's secret , and without the secret he could not presently have made his foul attempt on Peter 's life .
They were tied to prevent their flying away , doubled up with their knees close to their ears ; and for the trussing of them the black pirate had cut a rope into nine equal pieces .
All went well until Slightly 's turn came , when he was found to be like those irritating parcels that use up all the string in going round and leave no tags -LSB- ends -RSB- with which to tie a knot .
The pirates kicked him in their rage , just as you kick the parcel -LRB- though in fairness you should kick the string -RRB- ; and strange to say it was Hook who told them to belay their violence .
His lip was curled with malicious triumph .
While his dogs were merely sweating because every time they tried to pack the unhappy lad tight in one part he bulged out in another , Hook 's master mind had gone far beneath Slightly 's surface , probing not for effects but for causes ; and his exultation showed that he had found them .
Slightly , white to the gills , knew that Hook had surprised -LSB- discovered -RSB- his secret , which was this , that no boy so blown out could use a tree wherein an average man need stick .
Poor Slightly , most wretched of all the children now , for he was in a panic about Peter , bitterly regretted what he had done .
Madly addicted to the drinking of water when he was hot , he had swelled in consequence to his present girth , and instead of reducing himself to fit his tree he had , unknown to the others , whittled his tree to make it fit him .
Sufficient of this Hook guessed to persuade him that Peter at last lay at his mercy , but no word of the dark design that now formed in the subterranean caverns of his mind crossed his lips ; he merely signed that the captives were to be conveyed to the ship , and that he would be alone .
How to convey them ?
Hunched up in their ropes they might indeed be rolled down hill like barrels , but most of the way lay through a morass .
Again Hook 's genius surmounted difficulties .
He indicated that the little house must be used as a conveyance .
The children were flung into it , four stout pirates raised it on their shoulders , the others fell in behind , and singing the hateful pirate chorus the strange procession set off through the wood .
I do n't know whether any of the children were crying ; if so , the singing drowned the sound ; but as the little house disappeared in the forest , a brave though tiny jet of smoke issued from its chimney as if defying Hook .
Hook saw it , and it did Peter a bad service .
It dried up any trickle of pity for him that may have remained in the pirate 's infuriated breast .
The first thing he did on finding himself alone in the fast falling night was to tiptoe to Slightly 's tree , and make sure that it provided him with a passage .
Then for long he remained brooding ; his hat of ill omen on the sward , so that any gentle breeze which had arisen might play refreshingly through his hair .
Dark as were his thoughts his blue eyes were as soft as the periwinkle .
Intently he listened for any sound from the nether world , but all was as silent below as above ; the house under the ground seemed to be but one more empty tenement in the void .
Was that boy asleep , or did he stand waiting at the foot of Slightly 's tree , with his dagger in his hand ?
There was no way of knowing , save by going down .
Hook let his cloak slip softly to the ground , and then biting his lips till a lewd blood stood on them , he stepped into the tree .
He was a brave man , but for a moment he had to stop there and wipe his brow , which was dripping like a candle .
Then , silently , he let himself go into the unknown .
He arrived unmolested at the foot of the shaft , and stood still again , biting at his breath , which had almost left him .
As his eyes became accustomed to the dim light various objects in the home under the trees took shape ; but the only one on which his greedy gaze rested , long sought for and found at last , was the great bed .
On the bed lay Peter fast asleep .
Unaware of the tragedy being enacted above , Peter had continued , for a little time after the children left , to play gaily on his pipes : no doubt rather a forlorn attempt to prove to himself that he did not care .
Then he decided not to take his medicine , so as to grieve Wendy .
Then he lay down on the bed outside the coverlet , to vex her still more ; for she had always tucked them inside it , because you never know that you may not grow chilly at the turn of the night .
Then he nearly cried ; but it struck him how indignant she would be if he laughed instead ; so he laughed a haughty laugh and fell asleep in the middle of it .
Sometimes , though not often , he had dreams , and they were more painful than the dreams of other boys .
For hours he could not be separated from these dreams , though he wailed piteously in them .
They had to do , I think , with the riddle of his existence .
At such times it had been Wendy 's custom to take him out of bed and sit with him on her lap , soothing him in dear ways of her own invention , and when he grew calmer to put him back to bed before he quite woke up , so that he should not know of the indignity to which she had subjected him .
But on this occasion he had fallen at once into a dreamless sleep .
One arm dropped over the edge of the bed , one leg was arched , and the unfinished part of his laugh was stranded on his mouth , which was open , showing the little pearls .
Thus defenceless Hook found him .
He stood silent at the foot of the tree looking across the chamber at his enemy .
Did no feeling of compassion disturb his sombre breast ?
The man was not wholly evil ; he loved flowers -LRB- I have been told -RRB- and sweet music -LRB- he was himself no mean performer on the harpsichord -RRB- ; and , let it be frankly admitted , the idyllic nature of the scene stirred him profoundly .
Mastered by his better self he would have returned reluctantly up the tree , but for one thing .
What stayed him was Peter 's impertinent appearance as he slept .
The open mouth , the drooping arm , the arched knee : they were such a personification of cockiness as , taken together , will never again , one may hope , be presented to eyes so sensitive to their offensiveness .
They steeled Hook 's heart .
If his rage had broken him into a hundred pieces every one of them would have disregarded the incident , and leapt at the sleeper .
Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed , Hook stood in darkness himself , and at the first stealthy step forward he discovered an obstacle , the door of Slightly 's tree .
It did not entirely fill the aperture , and he had been looking over it .
Feeling for the catch , he found to his fury that it was low down , beyond his reach .
To his disordered brain it seemed then that the irritating quality in Peter 's face and figure visibly increased , and he rattled the door and flung himself against it .
Was his enemy to escape him after all ?
But what was that ?
The red in his eye had caught sight of Peter 's medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach .
He fathomed what it was straightaway , and immediately knew that the sleeper was in his power .
Lest he should be taken alive , Hook always carried about his person a dreadful drug , blended by himself of all the death-dealing rings that had come into his possession .
These he had boiled down into a yellow liquid quite unknown to science , which was probably the most virulent poison in existence .
Five drops of this he now added to Peter 's cup .
His hand shook , but it was in exultation rather than in shame .
As he did it he avoided glancing at the sleeper , but not lest pity should unnerve him ; merely to avoid spilling .
Then one long gloating look he cast upon his victim , and turning , wormed his way with difficulty up the tree .
As he emerged at the top he looked the very spirit of evil breaking from its hole .
Donning his hat at its most rakish angle , he wound his cloak around him , holding one end in front as if to conceal his person from the night , of which it was the blackest part , and muttering strangely to himself , stole away through the trees .
Peter slept on .
The light guttered -LSB- burned to edges -RSB- and went out , leaving the tenement in darkness ; but still he slept .
It must have been not less than ten o'clock by the crocodile , when he suddenly sat up in his bed , wakened by he knew not what .
It was a soft cautious tapping on the door of his tree .
Soft and cautious , but in that stillness it was sinister .
Peter felt for his dagger till his hand gripped it .
Then he spoke .
`` Who is that ? ''
For long there was no answer : then again the knock .
`` Who are you ? ''
No answer .
He was thrilled , and he loved being thrilled .
In two strides he reached the door .
Unlike Slightly 's door , it filled the aperture -LSB- opening -RSB- , so that he could not see beyond it , nor could the one knocking see him .
`` I wo n't open unless you speak , '' Peter cried .
Then at last the visitor spoke , in a lovely bell-like voice .
`` Let me in , Peter . ''
It was Tink , and quickly he unbarred to her .
She flew in excitedly , her face flushed and her dress stained with mud .
`` What is it ? ''
`` Oh , you could never guess ! ''
she cried , and offered him three guesses .
`` Out with it ! ''
he shouted , and in one ungrammatical sentence , as long as the ribbons that conjurers -LSB- magicians -RSB- pull from their mouths , she told of the capture of Wendy and the boys .
Peter 's heart bobbed up and down as he listened .
Wendy bound , and on the pirate ship ; she who loved everything to be just so !
`` I 'll rescue her ! ''
he cried , leaping at his weapons .
As he leapt he thought of something he could do to please her .
He could take his medicine .
His hand closed on the fatal draught .
`` No ! ''
shrieked Tinker Bell , who had heard Hook mutter about his deed as he sped through the forest .
`` Why not ? ''
`` It is poisoned . ''
`` Poisoned ?
Who could have poisoned it ? ''
`` Hook . ''
`` Do n't be silly .
How could Hook have got down here ? ''
Alas , Tinker Bell could not explain this , for even she did not know the dark secret of Slightly 's tree .
Nevertheless Hook 's words had left no room for doubt .
The cup was poisoned .
`` Besides , '' said Peter , quite believing himself `` I never fell asleep . ''
He raised the cup .
No time for words now ; time for deeds ; and with one of her lightning movements Tink got between his lips and the draught , and drained it to the dregs .
`` Why , Tink , how dare you drink my medicine ? ''
But she did not answer .
Already she was reeling in the air .
`` What is the matter with you ? ''
cried Peter , suddenly afraid .
`` It was poisoned , Peter , '' she told him softly ; `` and now I am going to be dead . ''
`` O Tink , did you drink it to save me ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` But why , Tink ? ''
Her wings would scarcely carry her now , but in reply she alighted on his shoulder and gave his nose a loving bite .
She whispered in his ear `` You silly ass , '' and then , tottering to her chamber , lay down on the bed .
His head almost filled the fourth wall of her little room as he knelt near her in distress .
Every moment her light was growing fainter ; and he knew that if it went out she would be no more .
She liked his tears so much that she put out her beautiful finger and let them run over it .
Her voice was so low that at first he could not make out what she said .
Then he made it out .
She was saying that she thought she could get well again if children believed in fairies .
Peter flung out his arms .
There were no children there , and it was night time ; but he addressed all who might be dreaming of the Neverland , and who were therefore nearer to him than you think : boys and girls in their nighties , and naked papooses in their baskets hung from trees .
`` Do you believe ? ''
he cried .
Tink sat up in bed almost briskly to listen to her fate .
She fancied she heard answers in the affirmative , and then again she was n't sure .
`` What do you think ? ''
she asked Peter .
`` If you believe , '' he shouted to them , `` clap your hands ; do n't let Tink die . ''
Many clapped .
Some did n't .
A few beasts hissed .
The clapping stopped suddenly ; as if countless mothers had rushed to their nurseries to see what on earth was happening ; but already Tink was saved .
First her voice grew strong , then she popped out of bed , then she was flashing through the room more merry and impudent than ever .
She never thought of thanking those who believed , but she would have like to get at the ones who had hissed .
`` And now to rescue Wendy ! ''
The moon was riding in a cloudy heaven when Peter rose from his tree , begirt -LSB- belted -RSB- with weapons and wearing little else , to set out upon his perilous quest .
It was not such a night as he would have chosen .
He had hoped to fly , keeping not far from the ground so that nothing unwonted should escape his eyes ; but in that fitful light to have flown low would have meant trailing his shadow through the trees , thus disturbing birds and acquainting a watchful foe that he was astir .
He regretted now that he had given the birds of the island such strange names that they are very wild and difficult of approach .
There was no other course but to press forward in redskin fashion , at which happily he was an adept -LSB- expert -RSB- .
But in what direction , for he could not be sure that the children had been taken to the ship ?
A light fall of snow had obliterated all footmarks ; and a deathly silence pervaded the island , as if for a space Nature stood still in horror of the recent carnage .
He had taught the children something of the forest lore that he had himself learned from Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell , and knew that in their dire hour they were not likely to forget it .
Slightly , if he had an opportunity , would blaze -LSB- cut a mark in -RSB- the trees , for instance , Curly would drop seeds , and Wendy would leave her handkerchief at some important place .
The morning was needed to search for such guidance , and he could not wait .
The upper world had called him , but would give no help .
The crocodile passed him , but not another living thing , not a sound , not a movement ; and yet he knew well that sudden death might be at the next tree , or stalking him from behind .
He swore this terrible oath : `` Hook or me this time . ''
Now he crawled forward like a snake , and again erect , he darted across a space on which the moonlight played , one finger on his lip and his dagger at the ready .
He was frightfully happy .
Chapter 14 THE PIRATE SHIP One green light squinting over Kidd 's Creek , which is near the mouth of the pirate river , marked where the brig , the JOLLY ROGER , lay , low in the water ; a rakish-looking -LSB- speedy-looking -RSB- craft foul to the hull , every beam in her detestable , like ground strewn with mangled feathers .
She was the cannibal of the seas , and scarce needed that watchful eye , for she floated immune in the horror of her name .
She was wrapped in the blanket of night , through which no sound from her could have reached the shore .
There was little sound , and none agreeable save the whir of the ship 's sewing machine at which Smee sat , ever industrious and obliging , the essence of the commonplace , pathetic Smee .
I know not why he was so infinitely pathetic , unless it were because he was so pathetically unaware of it ; but even strong men had to turn hastily from looking at him , and more than once on summer evenings he had touched the fount of Hook 's tears and made it flow .
Of this , as of almost everything else , Smee was quite unconscious .
A few of the pirates leant over the bulwarks , drinking in the miasma -LSB- putrid mist -RSB- of the night ; others sprawled by barrels over games of dice and cards ; and the exhausted four who had carried the little house lay prone on the deck , where even in their sleep they rolled skillfully to this side or that out of Hook 's reach , lest he should claw them mechanically in passing .
Hook trod the deck in thought .
O man unfathomable .
It was his hour of triumph .
Peter had been removed for ever from his path , and all the other boys were in the brig , about to walk the plank .
It was his grimmest deed since the days when he had brought Barbecue to heel ; and knowing as we do how vain a tabernacle is man , could we be surprised had he now paced the deck unsteadily , bellied out by the winds of his success ?
But there was no elation in his gait , which kept pace with the action of his sombre mind .
Hook was profoundly dejected .
He was often thus when communing with himself on board ship in the quietude of the night .
It was because he was so terribly alone .
This inscrutable man never felt more alone than when surrounded by his dogs .
They were socially inferior to him .
Hook was not his true name .
To reveal who he really was would even at this date set the country in a blaze ; but as those who read between the lines must already have guessed , he had been at a famous public school ; and its traditions still clung to him like garments , with which indeed they are largely concerned .
Thus it was offensive to him even now to board a ship in the same dress in which he grappled -LSB- attacked -RSB- her , and he still adhered in his walk to the school 's distinguished slouch .
But above all he retained the passion for good form .
Good form !
However much he may have degenerated , he still knew that this is all that really matters .
From far within him he heard a creaking as of rusty portals , and through them came a stern tap-tap-tap , like hammering in the night when one can not sleep .
`` Have you been good form to-day ? ''
was their eternal question .
`` Fame , fame , that glittering bauble , it is mine , '' he cried .
`` Is it quite good form to be distinguished at anything ? ''
the tap-tap from his school replied .
`` I am the only man whom Barbecue feared , '' he urged , `` and Flint feared Barbecue . ''
`` Barbecue , Flint -- what house ? ''
came the cutting retort .
Most disquieting reflection of all , was it not bad form to think about good form ?
His vitals were tortured by this problem .
It was a claw within him sharper than the iron one ; and as it tore him , the perspiration dripped down his tallow -LSB- waxy -RSB- countenance and streaked his doublet .
Ofttimes he drew his sleeve across his face , but there was no damming that trickle .
Ah , envy not Hook .
There came to him a presentiment of his early dissolution -LSB- death -RSB- .
It was as if Peter 's terrible oath had boarded the ship .
Hook felt a gloomy desire to make his dying speech , lest presently there should be no time for it .
`` Better for Hook , '' he cried , `` if he had had less ambition ! ''
It was in his darkest hours only that he referred to himself in the third person .
`` No little children to love me ! ''
Strange that he should think of this , which had never troubled him before ; perhaps the sewing machine brought it to his mind .
For long he muttered to himself , staring at Smee , who was hemming placidly , under the conviction that all children feared him .
Feared him !
Feared Smee !
There was not a child on board the brig that night who did not already love him .
He had said horrid things to them and hit them with the palm of his hand , because he could not hit with his fist , but they had only clung to him the more .
Michael had tried on his spectacles .
To tell poor Smee that they thought him lovable !
Hook itched to do it , but it seemed too brutal .
Instead , he revolved this mystery in his mind : why do they find Smee lovable ?
He pursued the problem like the sleuth-hound that he was .
If Smee was lovable , what was it that made him so ?
A terrible answer suddenly presented itself -- `` Good form ? ''
Had the bo ` sun good form without knowing it , which is the best form of all ?
He remembered that you have to prove you do n't know you have it before you are eligible for Pop -LSB- an elite social club at Eton -RSB- .
With a cry of rage he raised his iron hand over Smee 's head ; but he did not tear .
What arrested him was this reflection : `` To claw a man because he is good form , what would that be ? ''
`` Bad form ! ''
The unhappy Hook was as impotent -LSB- powerless -RSB- as he was damp , and he fell forward like a cut flower .
His dogs thinking him out of the way for a time , discipline instantly relaxed ; and they broke into a bacchanalian -LSB- drunken -RSB- dance , which brought him to his feet at once , all traces of human weakness gone , as if a bucket of water had passed over him .
`` Quiet , you scugs , '' he cried , `` or I 'll cast anchor in you ; '' and at once the din was hushed .
`` Are all the children chained , so that they can not fly away ? ''
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Then hoist them up . ''
The wretched prisoners were dragged from the hold , all except Wendy , and ranged in line in front of him .
For a time he seemed unconscious of their presence .
He lolled at his ease , humming , not unmelodiously , snatches of a rude song , and fingering a pack of cards .
Ever and anon the light from his cigar gave a touch of colour to his face .
`` Now then , bullies , '' he said briskly , `` six of you walk the plank to-night , but I have room for two cabin boys .
Which of you is it to be ? ''
`` Do n't irritate him unnecessarily , '' had been Wendy 's instructions in the hold ; so Tootles stepped forward politely .
Tootles hated the idea of signing under such a man , but an instinct told him that it would be prudent to lay the responsibility on an absent person ; and though a somewhat silly boy , he knew that mothers alone are always willing to be the buffer .
All children know this about mothers , and despise them for it , but make constant use of it .
So Tootles explained prudently , `` You see , sir , I do n't think my mother would like me to be a pirate .
Would your mother like you to be a pirate , Slightly ? ''
He winked at Slightly , who said mournfully , `` I do n't think so , '' as if he wished things had been otherwise .
`` Would your mother like you to be a pirate , Twin ? ''
`` I do n't think so , '' said the first twin , as clever as the others .
`` Nibs , would -- '' `` Stow this gab , '' roared Hook , and the spokesmen were dragged back .
`` You , boy , '' he said , addressing John , `` you look as if you had a little pluck in you .
Didst never want to be a pirate , my hearty ? ''
Now John had sometimes experienced this hankering at maths .
prep. ; and he was struck by Hook 's picking him out .
`` I once thought of calling myself Red-handed Jack , '' he said diffidently .
`` And a good name too .
We 'll call you that here , bully , if you join . ''
`` What do you think , Michael ? ''
asked John .
`` What would you call me if I join ? ''
Michael demanded .
`` Blackbeard Joe . ''
Michael was naturally impressed .
`` What do you think , John ? ''
He wanted John to decide , and John wanted him to decide .
`` Shall we still be respectful subjects of the King ? ''
John inquired .
Through Hook 's teeth came the answer : `` You would have to swear , ` Down with the King . ' ''
Perhaps John had not behaved very well so far , but he shone out now .
`` Then I refuse , '' he cried , banging the barrel in front of Hook .
`` And I refuse , '' cried Michael .
`` Rule Britannia ! ''
squeaked Curly .
The infuriated pirates buffeted them in the mouth ; and Hook roared out , `` That seals your doom .
Bring up their mother .
Get the plank ready . ''
They were only boys , and they went white as they saw Jukes and Cecco preparing the fatal plank .
But they tried to look brave when Wendy was brought up .
No words of mine can tell you how Wendy despised those pirates .
To the boys there was at least some glamour in the pirate calling ; but all that she saw was that the ship had not been tidied for years .
There was not a porthole on the grimy glass of which you might not have written with your finger `` Dirty pig '' ; and she had already written it on several .
But as the boys gathered round her she had no thought , of course , save for them .
`` So , my beauty , '' said Hook , as if he spoke in syrup , `` you are to see your children walk the plank . ''
Fine gentlemen though he was , the intensity of his communings had soiled his ruff , and suddenly he knew that she was gazing at it .
With a hasty gesture he tried to hide it , but he was too late .
`` Are they to die ? ''
asked Wendy , with a look of such frightful contempt that he nearly fainted .
`` They are , '' he snarled .
`` Silence all , '' he called gloatingly , `` for a mother 's last words to her children . ''
At this moment Wendy was grand .
`` These are my last words , dear boys , '' she said firmly .
`` I feel that I have a message to you from your real mothers , and it is this : ` We hope our sons will die like English gentlemen . ' ''
Even the pirates were awed , and Tootles cried out hysterically , `` I am going to do what my mother hopes .
What are you to do , Nibs ? ''
`` What my mother hopes .
What are you to do , Twin ? ''
`` What my mother hopes .
John , what are -- '' But Hook had found his voice again .
`` Tie her up ! ''
he shouted .
It was Smee who tied her to the mast .
`` See here , honey , '' he whispered , `` I 'll save you if you promise to be my mother . ''
But not even for Smee would she make such a promise .
`` I would almost rather have no children at all , '' she said disdainfully -LSB- scornfully -RSB- .
It is sad to know that not a boy was looking at her as Smee tied her to the mast ; the eyes of all were on the plank : that last little walk they were about to take .
They were no longer able to hope that they would walk it manfully , for the capacity to think had gone from them ; they could stare and shiver only .
Hook smiled on them with his teeth closed , and took a step toward Wendy .
His intention was to turn her face so that she should see the boys walking the plank one by one .
But he never reached her , he never heard the cry of anguish he hoped to wring from her .
He heard something else instead .
It was the terrible tick-tick of the crocodile .
They all heard it -- pirates , boys , Wendy ; and immediately every head was blown in one direction ; not to the water whence the sound proceeded , but toward Hook .
All knew that what was about to happen concerned him alone , and that from being actors they were suddenly become spectators .
Very frightful was it to see the change that came over him .
It was as if he had been clipped at every joint .
He fell in a little heap .
The sound came steadily nearer ; and in advance of it came this ghastly thought , `` The crocodile is about to board the ship ! ''
Even the iron claw hung inactive ; as if knowing that it was no intrinsic part of what the attacking force wanted .
Left so fearfully alone , any other man would have lain with his eyes shut where he fell : but the gigantic brain of Hook was still working , and under its guidance he crawled on the knees along the deck as far from the sound as he could go .
The pirates respectfully cleared a passage for him , and it was only when he brought up against the bulwarks that he spoke .
`` Hide me ! ''
he cried hoarsely .
They gathered round him , all eyes averted from the thing that was coming aboard .
They had no thought of fighting it .
It was Fate .
Only when Hook was hidden from them did curiosity loosen the limbs of the boys so that they could rush to the ship 's side to see the crocodile climbing it .
Then they got the strangest surprise of the Night of Nights ; for it was no crocodile that was coming to their aid .
It was Peter .
He signed to them not to give vent to any cry of admiration that might rouse suspicion .
Then he went on ticking .
Chapter 15 `` HOOK OR ME THIS TIME '' Odd things happen to all of us on our way through life without our noticing for a time that they have happened .
Thus , to take an instance , we suddenly discover that we have been deaf in one ear for we do n't know how long , but , say , half an hour .
Now such an experience had come that night to Peter .
When last we saw him he was stealing across the island with one finger to his lips and his dagger at the ready .
He had seen the crocodile pass by without noticing anything peculiar about it , but by and by he remembered that it had not been ticking .
At first he thought this eerie , but soon concluded rightly that the clock had run down .
Without giving a thought to what might be the feelings of a fellow-creature thus abruptly deprived of its closest companion , Peter began to consider how he could turn the catastrophe to his own use ; and he decided to tick , so that wild beasts should believe he was the crocodile and let him pass unmolested .
He ticked superbly , but with one unforeseen result .
The crocodile was among those who heard the sound , and it followed him , though whether with the purpose of regaining what it had lost , or merely as a friend under the belief that it was again ticking itself , will never be certainly known , for , like slaves to a fixed idea , it was a stupid beast .
Peter reached the shore without mishap , and went straight on , his legs encountering the water as if quite unaware that they had entered a new element .
Thus many animals pass from land to water , but no other human of whom I know .
As he swam he had but one thought : `` Hook or me this time . ''
He had ticked so long that he now went on ticking without knowing that he was doing it .
Had he known he would have stopped , for to board the brig by help of the tick , though an ingenious idea , had not occurred to him .
On the contrary , he thought he had scaled her side as noiseless as a mouse ; and he was amazed to see the pirates cowering from him , with Hook in their midst as abject as if he had heard the crocodile .
The crocodile !
No sooner did Peter remember it than he heard the ticking .
At first he thought the sound did come from the crocodile , and he looked behind him swiftly .
Then he realised that he was doing it himself , and in a flash he understood the situation .
`` How clever of me ! ''
he thought at once , and signed to the boys not to burst into applause .
It was at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerged from the forecastle and came along the deck .
Now , reader , time what happened by your watch .
Peter struck true and deep .
John clapped his hands on the ill-fated pirate 's mouth to stifle the dying groan .
He fell forward .
Four boys caught him to prevent the thud .
Peter gave the signal , and the carrion was cast overboard .
There was a splash , and then silence .
How long has it taken ?
`` One ! ''
-LRB- Slightly had begun to count . -RRB-
None too soon , Peter , every inch of him on tiptoe , vanished into the cabin ; for more than one pirate was screwing up his courage to look round .
They could hear each other 's distressed breathing now , which showed them that the more terrible sound had passed .
`` It 's gone , captain , '' Smee said , wiping off his spectacles .
`` All 's still again . ''
Slowly Hook let his head emerge from his ruff , and listened so intently that he could have caught the echo of the tick .
There was not a sound , and he drew himself up firmly to his full height .
`` Then here 's to Johnny Plank ! ''
he cried brazenly , hating the boys more than ever because they had seen him unbend .
He broke into the villainous ditty : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the frisky plank , You walks along it so , Till it goes down and you goes down To Davy Jones below ! ''
To terrorize the prisoners the more , though with a certain loss of dignity , he danced along an imaginary plank , grimacing at them as he sang ; and when he finished he cried , `` Do you want a touch of the cat -LSB- o ' nine tails -RSB- before you walk the plank ? ''
At that they fell on their knees .
`` No , no ! ''
they cried so piteously that every pirate smiled .
`` Fetch the cat , Jukes , '' said Hook ; `` it 's in the cabin . ''
The cabin !
Peter was in the cabin !
The children gazed at each other .
`` Ay , ay , '' said Jukes blithely , and he strode into the cabin .
They followed him with their eyes ; they scarce knew that Hook had resumed his song , his dogs joining in with him : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the scratching cat , Its tails are nine , you know , And when they 're writ upon your back -- '' What was the last line will never be known , for of a sudden the song was stayed by a dreadful screech from the cabin .
It wailed through the ship , and died away .
Then was heard a crowing sound which was well understood by the boys , but to the pirates was almost more eerie than the screech .
`` What was that ? ''
cried Hook .
`` Two , '' said Slightly solemnly .
The Italian Cecco hesitated for a moment and then swung into the cabin .
He tottered out , haggard .
`` What 's the matter with Bill Jukes , you dog ? ''
hissed Hook , towering over him .
`` The matter wi ' him is he 's dead , stabbed , '' replied Cecco in a hollow voice .
`` Bill Jukes dead ! ''
cried the startled pirates .
`` The cabin 's as black as a pit , '' Cecco said , almost gibbering , `` but there is something terrible in there : the thing you heard crowing . ''
The exultation of the boys , the lowering looks of the pirates , both were seen by Hook .
`` Cecco , '' he said in his most steely voice , `` go back and fetch me out that doodle-doo . ''
Cecco , bravest of the brave , cowered before his captain , crying `` No , no '' ; but Hook was purring to his claw .
`` Did you say you would go , Cecco ? ''
he said musingly .
Cecco went , first flinging his arms despairingly .
There was no more singing , all listened now ; and again came a death-screech and again a crow .
No one spoke except Slightly .
`` Three , '' he said .
Hook rallied his dogs with a gesture . ''
'S ` death and odds fish , '' he thundered , `` who is to bring me that doodle-doo ? ''
`` Wait till Cecco comes out , '' growled Starkey , and the others took up the cry .
`` I think I heard you volunteer , Starkey , '' said Hook , purring again .
`` No , by thunder ! ''
Starkey cried .
`` My hook thinks you did , '' said Hook , crossing to him .
`` I wonder if it would not be advisable , Starkey , to humour the hook ? ''
`` I 'll swing before I go in there , '' replied Starkey doggedly , and again he had the support of the crew .
`` Is this mutiny ? ''
asked Hook more pleasantly than ever .
`` Starkey 's ringleader ! ''
`` Captain , mercy ! ''
Starkey whimpered , all of a tremble now .
`` Shake hands , Starkey , '' said Hook , proffering his claw .
Starkey looked round for help , but all deserted him .
As he backed up Hook advanced , and now the red spark was in his eye .
With a despairing scream the pirate leapt upon Long Tom and precipitated himself into the sea .
`` Four , '' said Slightly .
`` And now , '' Hook said courteously , `` did any other gentlemen say mutiny ? ''
Seizing a lantern and raising his claw with a menacing gesture , `` I 'll bring out that doodle-doo myself , '' he said , and sped into the cabin .
`` Five . ''
How Slightly longed to say it .
He wetted his lips to be ready , but Hook came staggering out , without his lantern .
`` Something blew out the light , '' he said a little unsteadily .
`` Something ! ''
echoed Mullins .
`` What of Cecco ? ''
demanded Noodler .
`` He 's as dead as Jukes , '' said Hook shortly .
His reluctance to return to the cabin impressed them all unfavourably , and the mutinous sounds again broke forth .
All pirates are superstitious , and Cookson cried , `` They do say the surest sign a ship 's accurst is when there 's one on board more than can be accounted for . ''
`` I 've heard , '' muttered Mullins , `` he always boards the pirate craft last .
Had he a tail , captain ? ''
`` They say , '' said another , looking viciously at Hook , `` that when he comes it 's in the likeness of the wickedest man aboard . ''
`` Had he a hook , captain ? ''
asked Cookson insolently ; and one after another took up the cry , `` The ship 's doomed ! ''
At this the children could not resist raising a cheer .
Hook had well-nigh forgotten his prisoners , but as he swung round on them now his face lit up again .
`` Lads , '' he cried to his crew , `` now here 's a notion .
Open the cabin door and drive them in .
Let them fight the doodle-doo for their lives .
If they kill him , we 're so much the better ; if he kills them , we 're none the worse . ''
For the last time his dogs admired Hook , and devotedly they did his bidding .
The boys , pretending to struggle , were pushed into the cabin and the door was closed on them .
`` Now , listen ! ''
cried Hook , and all listened .
But not one dared to face the door .
Yes , one , Wendy , who all this time had been bound to the mast .
It was for neither a scream nor a crow that she was watching , it was for the reappearance of Peter .
She had not long to wait .
In the cabin he had found the thing for which he had gone in search : the key that would free the children of their manacles , and now they all stole forth , armed with such weapons as they could find .
First signing them to hide , Peter cut Wendy 's bonds , and then nothing could have been easier than for them all to fly off together ; but one thing barred the way , an oath , `` Hook or me this time . ''
So when he had freed Wendy , he whispered for her to conceal herself with the others , and himself took her place by the mast , her cloak around him so that he should pass for her .
Then he took a great breath and crowed .
To the pirates it was a voice crying that all the boys lay slain in the cabin ; and they were panic-stricken .
Hook tried to hearten them ; but like the dogs he had made them they showed him their fangs , and he knew that if he took his eyes off them now they would leap at him .
`` Lads , '' he said , ready to cajole or strike as need be , but never quailing for an instant , `` I 've thought it out .
There 's a Jonah aboard . ''
`` Ay , '' they snarled , `` a man wi ' a hook . ''
`` No , lads , no , it 's the girl .
Never was luck on a pirate ship wi ' a woman on board .
We 'll right the ship when she 's gone . ''
Some of them remembered that this had been a saying of Flint 's .
`` It 's worth trying , '' they said doubtfully .
`` Fling the girl overboard , '' cried Hook ; and they made a rush at the figure in the cloak .
`` There 's none can save you now , missy , '' Mullins hissed jeeringly .
`` There 's one , '' replied the figure .
`` Who 's that ? ''
`` Peter Pan the avenger ! ''
came the terrible answer ; and as he spoke Peter flung off his cloak .
Then they all knew who 't was that had been undoing them in the cabin , and twice Hook essayed to speak and twice he failed .
In that frightful moment I think his fierce heart broke .
At last he cried , `` Cleave him to the brisket ! ''
but without conviction .
`` Down , boys , and at them ! ''
Peter 's voice rang out ; and in another moment the clash of arms was resounding through the ship .
Had the pirates kept together it is certain that they would have won ; but the onset came when they were still unstrung , and they ran hither and thither , striking wildly , each thinking himself the last survivor of the crew .
Man to man they were the stronger ; but they fought on the defensive only , which enabled the boys to hunt in pairs and choose their quarry .
Some of the miscreants leapt into the sea ; others hid in dark recesses , where they were found by Slightly , who did not fight , but ran about with a lantern which he flashed in their faces , so that they were half blinded and fell as an easy prey to the reeking swords of the other boys .
There was little sound to be heard but the clang of weapons , an occasional screech or splash , and Slightly monotonously counting -- five -- six -- seven eight -- nine -- ten -- eleven .
I think all were gone when a group of savage boys surrounded Hook , who seemed to have a charmed life , as he kept them at bay in that circle of fire .
They had done for his dogs , but this man alone seemed to be a match for them all .
Again and again they closed upon him , and again and again he hewed a clear space .
He had lifted up one boy with his hook , and was using him as a buckler -LSB- shield -RSB- , when another , who had just passed his sword through Mullins , sprang into the fray .
`` Put up your swords , boys , '' cried the newcomer , `` this man is mine . ''
Thus suddenly Hook found himself face to face with Peter .
The others drew back and formed a ring around them .
For long the two enemies looked at one another , Hook shuddering slightly , and Peter with the strange smile upon his face .
`` So , Pan , '' said Hook at last , `` this is all your doing . ''
`` Ay , James Hook , '' came the stern answer , `` it is all my doing . ''
`` Proud and insolent youth , '' said Hook , `` prepare to meet thy doom . ''
`` Dark and sinister man , '' Peter answered , `` have at thee . ''
Without more words they fell to , and for a space there was no advantage to either blade .
Peter was a superb swordsman , and parried with dazzling rapidity ; ever and anon he followed up a feint with a lunge that got past his foe 's defence , but his shorter reach stood him in ill stead , and he could not drive the steel home .
Hook , scarcely his inferior in brilliancy , but not quite so nimble in wrist play , forced him back by the weight of his onset , hoping suddenly to end all with a favourite thrust , taught him long ago by Barbecue at Rio ; but to his astonishment he found this thrust turned aside again and again .
Then he sought to close and give the quietus with his iron hook , which all this time had been pawing the air ; but Peter doubled under it and , lunging fiercely , pierced him in the ribs .
At the sight of his own blood , whose peculiar colour , you remember , was offensive to him , the sword fell from Hook 's hand , and he was at Peter 's mercy .
`` Now ! ''
cried all the boys , but with a magnificent gesture Peter invited his opponent to pick up his sword .
Hook did so instantly , but with a tragic feeling that Peter was showing good form .
Hitherto he had thought it was some fiend fighting him , but darker suspicions assailed him now .
`` Pan , who and what art thou ? ''
he cried huskily .
`` I 'm youth , I 'm joy , '' Peter answered at a venture , `` I 'm a little bird that has broken out of the egg . ''
This , of course , was nonsense ; but it was proof to the unhappy Hook that Peter did not know in the least who or what he was , which is the very pinnacle of good form .
`` To ' t again , '' he cried despairingly .
He fought now like a human flail , and every sweep of that terrible sword would have severed in twain any man or boy who obstructed it ; but Peter fluttered round him as if the very wind it made blew him out of the danger zone .
And again and again he darted in and pricked .
Hook was fighting now without hope .
That passionate breast no longer asked for life ; but for one boon it craved : to see Peter show bad form before it was cold forever .
Abandoning the fight he rushed into the powder magazine and fired it .
`` In two minutes , '' he cried , `` the ship will be blown to pieces . ''
Now , now , he thought , true form will show .
But Peter issued from the powder magazine with the shell in his hands , and calmly flung it overboard .
What sort of form was Hook himself showing ?
Misguided man though he was , we may be glad , without sympathising with him , that in the end he was true to the traditions of his race .
The other boys were flying around him now , flouting , scornful ; and he staggered about the deck striking up at them impotently , his mind was no longer with them ; it was slouching in the playing fields of long ago , or being sent up -LSB- to the headmaster -RSB- for good , or watching the wall-game from a famous wall .
And his shoes were right , and his waistcoat was right , and his tie was right , and his socks were right .
James Hook , thou not wholly unheroic figure , farewell .
For we have come to his last moment .
Seeing Peter slowly advancing upon him through the air with dagger poised , he sprang upon the bulwarks to cast himself into the sea .
He did not know that the crocodile was waiting for him ; for we purposely stopped the clock that this knowledge might be spared him : a little mark of respect from us at the end .
He had one last triumph , which I think we need not grudge him .
As he stood on the bulwark looking over his shoulder at Peter gliding through the air , he invited him with a gesture to use his foot .
It made Peter kick instead of stab .
At last Hook had got the boon for which he craved .
`` Bad form , '' he cried jeeringly , and went content to the crocodile .
Thus perished James Hook .
`` Seventeen , '' Slightly sang out ; but he was not quite correct in his figures .
Fifteen paid the penalty for their crimes that night ; but two reached the shore : Starkey to be captured by the redskins , who made him nurse for all their papooses , a melancholy come-down for a pirate ; and Smee , who henceforth wandered about the world in his spectacles , making a precarious living by saying he was the only man that Jas .
Hook had feared .
Wendy , of course , had stood by taking no part in the fight , though watching Peter with glistening eyes ; but now that all was over she became prominent again .
She praised them equally , and shuddered delightfully when Michael showed her the place where he had killed one ; and then she took them into Hook 's cabin and pointed to his watch which was hanging on a nail .
It said `` half-past one ! ''
The lateness of the hour was almost the biggest thing of all .
She got them to bed in the pirates ' bunks pretty quickly , you may be sure ; all but Peter , who strutted up and down on the deck , until at last he fell asleep by the side of Long Tom .
He had one of his dreams that night , and cried in his sleep for a long time , and Wendy held him tightly .
Chapter 16 THE RETURN HOME By three bells that morning they were all stirring their stumps -LSB- legs -RSB- ; for there was a big sea running ; and Tootles , the bo ` sun , was among them , with a rope 's end in his hand and chewing tobacco .
They all donned pirate clothes cut off at the knee , shaved smartly , and tumbled up , with the true nautical roll and hitching their trousers .
It need not be said who was the captain .
Nibs and John were first and second mate .
There was a woman aboard .
The rest were tars -LSB- sailors -RSB- before the mast , and lived in the fo ` c ` sle .
Peter had already lashed himself to the wheel ; but he piped all hands and delivered a short address to them ; said he hoped they would do their duty like gallant hearties , but that he knew they were the scum of Rio and the Gold Coast , and if they snapped at him he would tear them .
The bluff strident words struck the note sailors understood , and they cheered him lustily .
Then a few sharp orders were given , and they turned the ship round , and nosed her for the mainland .
Captain Pan calculated , after consulting the ship 's chart , that if this weather lasted they should strike the Azores about the 21st of June , after which it would save time to fly .
Some of them wanted it to be an honest ship and others were in favour of keeping it a pirate ; but the captain treated them as dogs , and they dared not express their wishes to him even in a round robin -LSB- one person after another , as they had to Cpt .
Hook -RSB- .
Instant obedience was the only safe thing .
Slightly got a dozen for looking perplexed when told to take soundings .
The general feeling was that Peter was honest just now to lull Wendy 's suspicions , but that there might be a change when the new suit was ready , which , against her will , she was making for him out of some of Hook 's wickedest garments .
It was afterwards whispered among them that on the first night he wore this suit he sat long in the cabin with Hook 's cigar-holder in his mouth and one hand clenched , all but for the forefinger , which he bent and held threateningly aloft like a hook .
Instead of watching the ship , however , we must now return to that desolate home from which three of our characters had taken heartless flight so long ago .
It seems a shame to have neglected No. 14 all this time ; and yet we may be sure that Mrs. Darling does not blame us .
If we had returned sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at her , she would probably have cried , `` Do n't be silly ; what do I matter ?
Do go back and keep an eye on the children . ''
So long as mothers are like this their children will take advantage of them ; and they may lay to -LSB- bet on -RSB- that .
Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because its lawful occupants are on their way home ; we are merely hurrying on in advance of them to see that their beds are properly aired and that Mr. and Mrs. Darling do not go out for the evening .
We are no more than servants .
Why on earth should their beds be properly aired , seeing that they left them in such a thankless hurry ?
Would it not serve them jolly well right if they came back and found that their parents were spending the week-end in the country ?
It would be the moral lesson they have been in need of ever since we met them ; but if we contrived things in this way Mrs. Darling would never forgive us .
One thing I should like to do immensely , and that is to tell her , in the way authors have , that the children are coming back , that indeed they will be here on Thursday week .
This would spoil so completely the surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael are looking forward .
They have been planning it out on the ship : mother 's rapture , father 's shout of joy , Nana 's leap through the air to embrace them first , when what they ought to be prepared for is a good hiding .
How delicious to spoil it all by breaking the news in advance ; so that when they enter grandly Mrs. Darling may not even offer Wendy her mouth , and Mr. Darling may exclaim pettishly , `` Dash it all , here are those boys again . ''
However , we should get no thanks even for this .
We are beginning to know Mrs. Darling by this time , and may be sure that she would upbraid us for depriving the children of their little pleasure .
`` But , my dear madam , it is ten days till Thursday week ; so that by telling you what 's what , we can save you ten days of unhappiness . ''
`` Yes , but at what a cost !
By depriving the children of ten minutes of delight . ''
`` Oh , if you look at it in that way ! ''
`` What other way is there in which to look at it ? ''
You see , the woman had no proper spirit .
I had meant to say extraordinarily nice things about her ; but I despise her , and not one of them will I say now .
She does not really need to be told to have things ready , for they are ready .
All the beds are aired , and she never leaves the house , and observe , the window is open .
For all the use we are to her , we might well go back to the ship .
However , as we are here we may as well stay and look on .
That is all we are , lookers-on .
Nobody really wants us .
So let us watch and say jaggy things , in the hope that some of them will hurt .
The only change to be seen in the night-nursery is that between nine and six the kennel is no longer there .
When the children flew away , Mr. Darling felt in his bones that all the blame was his for having chained Nana up , and that from first to last she had been wiser than he .
Of course , as we have seen , he was quite a simple man ; indeed he might have passed for a boy again if he had been able to take his baldness off ; but he had also a noble sense of justice and a lion 's courage to do what seemed right to him ; and having thought the matter out with anxious care after the flight of the children , he went down on all fours and crawled into the kennel .
To all Mrs. Darling 's dear invitations to him to come out he replied sadly but firmly : `` No , my own one , this is the place for me . ''
In the bitterness of his remorse he swore that he would never leave the kennel until his children came back .
Of course this was a pity ; but whatever Mr. Darling did he had to do in excess , otherwise he soon gave up doing it .
And there never was a more humble man than the once proud George Darling , as he sat in the kennel of an evening talking with his wife of their children and all their pretty ways .
Very touching was his deference to Nana .
He would not let her come into the kennel , but on all other matters he followed her wishes implicitly .
Every morning the kennel was carried with Mr. Darling in it to a cab , which conveyed him to his office , and he returned home in the same way at six .
Something of the strength of character of the man will be seen if we remember how sensitive he was to the opinion of neighbours : this man whose every movement now attracted surprised attention .
Inwardly he must have suffered torture ; but he preserved a calm exterior even when the young criticised his little home , and he always lifted his hat courteously to any lady who looked inside .
It may have been Quixotic , but it was magnificent .
Soon the inward meaning of it leaked out , and the great heart of the public was touched .
Crowds followed the cab , cheering it lustily ; charming girls scaled it to get his autograph ; interviews appeared in the better class of papers , and society invited him to dinner and added , `` Do come in the kennel . ''
On that eventful Thursday week , Mrs. Darling was in the night-nursery awaiting George 's return home ; a very sad-eyed woman .
Now that we look at her closely and remember the gaiety of her in the old days , all gone now just because she has lost her babes , I find I wo n't be able to say nasty things about her after all .
If she was too fond of her rubbishy children , she could n't help it .
Look at her in her chair , where she has fallen asleep .
The corner of her mouth , where one looks first , is almost withered up .
Her hand moves restlessly on her breast as if she had a pain there .
Some like Peter best , and some like Wendy best , but I like her best .
Suppose , to make her happy , we whisper to her in her sleep that the brats are coming back .
They are really within two miles of the window now , and flying strong , but all we need whisper is that they are on the way .
Let 's .
It is a pity we did it , for she has started up , calling their names ; and there is no one in the room but Nana .
`` O Nana , I dreamt my dear ones had come back . ''
Nana had filmy eyes , but all she could do was put her paw gently on her mistress 's lap ; and they were sitting together thus when the kennel was brought back .
As Mr. Darling puts his head out to kiss his wife , we see that his face is more worn than of yore , but has a softer expression .
He gave his hat to Liza , who took it scornfully ; for she had no imagination , and was quite incapable of understanding the motives of such a man .
Outside , the crowd who had accompanied the cab home were still cheering , and he was naturally not unmoved .
`` Listen to them , '' he said ; `` it is very gratifying . ''
`` Lots of little boys , '' sneered Liza .
`` There were several adults to-day , '' he assured her with a faint flush ; but when she tossed her head he had not a word of reproof for her .
Social success had not spoilt him ; it had made him sweeter .
For some time he sat with his head out of the kennel , talking with Mrs. Darling of this success , and pressing her hand reassuringly when she said she hoped his head would not be turned by it .
`` But if I had been a weak man , '' he said .
`` Good heavens , if I had been a weak man ! ''
`` And , George , '' she said timidly , `` you are as full of remorse as ever , are n't you ? ''
`` Full of remorse as ever , dearest !
See my punishment : living in a kennel . ''
`` But it is punishment , is n't it , George ?
You are sure you are not enjoying it ? ''
`` My love ! ''
You may be sure she begged his pardon ; and then , feeling drowsy , he curled round in the kennel .
`` Wo n't you play me to sleep , '' he asked , `` on the nursery piano ? ''
and as she was crossing to the day-nursery he added thoughtlessly , `` And shut that window .
I feel a draught . ''
`` O George , never ask me to do that .
The window must always be left open for them , always , always . ''
Now it was his turn to beg her pardon ; and she went into the day-nursery and played , and soon he was asleep ; and while he slept , Wendy and John and Michael flew into the room .
Oh no .
We have written it so , because that was the charming arrangement planned by them before we left the ship ; but something must have happened since then , for it is not they who have flown in , it is Peter and Tinker Bell .
Peter 's first words tell all .
`` Quick Tink , '' he whispered , `` close the window ; bar it !
That 's right .
Now you and I must get away by the door ; and when Wendy comes she will think her mother has barred her out ; and she will have to go back with me . ''
Now I understand what had hitherto puzzled me , why when Peter had exterminated the pirates he did not return to the island and leave Tink to escort the children to the mainland .
This trick had been in his head all the time .
Instead of feeling that he was behaving badly he danced with glee ; then he peeped into the day-nursery to see who was playing .
He whispered to Tink , `` It 's Wendy 's mother !
She is a pretty lady , but not so pretty as my mother .
Her mouth is full of thimbles , but not so full as my mother 's was . ''
Of course he knew nothing whatever about his mother ; but he sometimes bragged about her .
He did not know the tune , which was `` Home , Sweet Home , '' but he knew it was saying , `` Come back , Wendy , Wendy , Wendy '' ; and he cried exultantly , `` You will never see Wendy again , lady , for the window is barred ! ''
He peeped in again to see why the music had stopped , and now he saw that Mrs. Darling had laid her head on the box , and that two tears were sitting on her eyes .
`` She wants me to unbar the window , '' thought Peter , `` but I wo n't , not I ! ''
He peeped again , and the tears were still there , or another two had taken their place .
`` She 's awfully fond of Wendy , '' he said to himself .
He was angry with her now for not seeing why she could not have Wendy .
The reason was so simple : `` I 'm fond of her too .
We ca n't both have her , lady . ''
But the lady would not make the best of it , and he was unhappy .
He ceased to look at her , but even then she would not let go of him .
He skipped about and made funny faces , but when he stopped it was just as if she were inside him , knocking .
`` Oh , all right , '' he said at last , and gulped .
Then he unbarred the window .
`` Come on , Tink , '' he cried , with a frightful sneer at the laws of nature ; `` we do n't want any silly mothers ; '' and he flew away .
Thus Wendy and John and Michael found the window open for them after all , which of course was more than they deserved .
They alighted on the floor , quite unashamed of themselves , and the youngest one had already forgotten his home .
`` John , '' he said , looking around him doubtfully , `` I think I have been here before . ''
`` Of course you have , you silly .
There is your old bed . ''
`` So it is , '' Michael said , but not with much conviction .
`` I say , '' cried John , `` the kennel ! ''
and he dashed across to look into it .
`` Perhaps Nana is inside it , '' Wendy said .
But John whistled .
`` Hullo , '' he said , `` there 's a man inside it . ''
`` It 's father ! ''
exclaimed Wendy .
`` Let me see father , '' Michael begged eagerly , and he took a good look .
`` He is not so big as the pirate I killed , '' he said with such frank disappointment that I am glad Mr. Darling was asleep ; it would have been sad if those had been the first words he heard his little Michael say .
Wendy and John had been taken aback somewhat at finding their father in the kennel .
`` Surely , '' said John , like one who had lost faith in his memory , `` he used not to sleep in the kennel ? ''
`` John , '' Wendy said falteringly , `` perhaps we do n't remember the old life as well as we thought we did . ''
A chill fell upon them ; and serve them right .
`` It is very careless of mother , '' said that young scoundrel John , `` not to be here when we come back . ''
It was then that Mrs. Darling began playing again .
`` It 's mother ! ''
cried Wendy , peeping .
`` So it is ! ''
said John .
`` Then are you not really our mother , Wendy ? ''
asked Michael , who was surely sleepy .
`` Oh dear ! ''
exclaimed Wendy , with her first real twinge of remorse -LSB- for having gone -RSB- , `` it was quite time we came back . ''
`` Let us creep in , '' John suggested , `` and put our hands over her eyes . ''
But Wendy , who saw that they must break the joyous news more gently , had a better plan .
`` Let us all slip into our beds , and be there when she comes in , just as if we had never been away . ''
And so when Mrs. Darling went back to the night-nursery to see if her husband was asleep , all the beds were occupied .
The children waited for her cry of joy , but it did not come .
She saw them , but she did not believe they were there .
You see , she saw them in their beds so often in her dreams that she thought this was just the dream hanging around her still .
She sat down in the chair by the fire , where in the old days she had nursed them .
They could not understand this , and a cold fear fell upon all the three of them .
`` Mother ! ''
Wendy cried .
`` That 's Wendy , '' she said , but still she was sure it was the dream .
`` Mother ! ''
`` That 's John , '' she said .
`` Mother ! ''
cried Michael .
He knew her now .
`` That 's Michael , '' she said , and she stretched out her arms for the three little selfish children they would never envelop again .
Yes , they did , they went round Wendy and John and Michael , who had slipped out of bed and run to her .
`` George , George ! ''
she cried when she could speak ; and Mr. Darling woke to share her bliss , and Nana came rushing in .
There could not have been a lovelier sight ; but there was none to see it except a little boy who was staring in at the window .
He had had ecstasies innumerable that other children can never know ; but he was looking through the window at the one joy from which he must be for ever barred .
Chapter 17 WHEN WENDY GREW UP I hope you want to know what became of the other boys .
They were waiting below to give Wendy time to explain about them ; and when they had counted five hundred they went up .
They went up by the stair , because they thought this would make a better impression .
They stood in a row in front of Mrs. Darling , with their hats off , and wishing they were not wearing their pirate clothes .
They said nothing , but their eyes asked her to have them .
They ought to have looked at Mr. Darling also , but they forgot about him .
Of course Mrs. Darling said at once that she would have them ; but Mr. Darling was curiously depressed , and they saw that he considered six a rather large number .
`` I must say , '' he said to Wendy , `` that you do n't do things by halves , '' a grudging remark which the twins thought was pointed at them .
The first twin was the proud one , and he asked , flushing , `` Do you think we should be too much of a handful , sir ?
Because , if so , we can go away . ''
`` Father ! ''
Wendy cried , shocked ; but still the cloud was on him .
He knew he was behaving unworthily , but he could not help it .
`` We could lie doubled up , '' said Nibs .
`` I always cut their hair myself , '' said Wendy .
`` George ! ''
Mrs. Darling exclaimed , pained to see her dear one showing himself in such an unfavourable light .
Then he burst into tears , and the truth came out .
He was as glad to have them as she was , he said , but he thought they should have asked his consent as well as hers , instead of treating him as a cypher -LSB- zero -RSB- in his own house .
`` I do n't think he is a cypher , '' Tootles cried instantly .
`` Do you think he is a cypher , Curly ? ''
`` No , I do n't .
Do you think he is a cypher , Slightly ? ''
`` Rather not .
Twin , what do you think ? ''
It turned out that not one of them thought him a cypher ; and he was absurdly gratified , and said he would find space for them all in the drawing-room if they fitted in .
`` We 'll fit in , sir , '' they assured him .
`` Then follow the leader , '' he cried gaily .
`` Mind you , I am not sure that we have a drawing-room , but we pretend we have , and it 's all the same .
Hoop la ! ''
He went off dancing through the house , and they all cried `` Hoop la ! ''
and danced after him , searching for the drawing-room ; and I forget whether they found it , but at any rate they found corners , and they all fitted in .
As for Peter , he saw Wendy once again before he flew away .
He did not exactly come to the window , but he brushed against it in passing so that she could open it if she liked and call to him .
That is what she did .
`` Hullo , Wendy , good-bye , '' he said .
`` Oh dear , are you going away ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` You do n't feel , Peter , '' she said falteringly , `` that you would like to say anything to my parents about a very sweet subject ? ''
`` No . ''
`` About me , Peter ? ''
`` No . ''
Mrs. Darling came to the window , for at present she was keeping a sharp eye on Wendy .
She told Peter that she had adopted all the other boys , and would like to adopt him also .
`` Would you send me to school ? ''
he inquired craftily .
`` Yes . ''
`` And then to an office ? ''
`` I suppose so . ''
`` Soon I would be a man ? ''
`` Very soon . ''
`` I do n't want to go to school and learn solemn things , '' he told her passionately .
`` I do n't want to be a man .
O Wendy 's mother , if I was to wake up and feel there was a beard ! ''
`` Peter , '' said Wendy the comforter , `` I should love you in a beard ; '' and Mrs. Darling stretched out her arms to him , but he repulsed her .
`` Keep back , lady , no one is going to catch me and make me a man . ''
`` But where are you going to live ? ''
`` With Tink in the house we built for Wendy .
The fairies are to put it high up among the tree tops where they sleep at nights . ''
`` How lovely , '' cried Wendy so longingly that Mrs. Darling tightened her grip .
`` I thought all the fairies were dead , '' Mrs. Darling said .
`` There are always a lot of young ones , '' explained Wendy , who was now quite an authority , `` because you see when a new baby laughs for the first time a new fairy is born , and as there are always new babies there are always new fairies .
They live in nests on the tops of trees ; and the mauve ones are boys and the white ones are girls , and the blue ones are just little sillies who are not sure what they are . ''
`` I shall have such fun , '' said Peter , with eye on Wendy .
`` It will be rather lonely in the evening , '' she said , `` sitting by the fire . ''
`` I shall have Tink . ''
`` Tink ca n't go a twentieth part of the way round , '' she reminded him a little tartly .
`` Sneaky tell-tale ! ''
Tink called out from somewhere round the corner .
`` It does n't matter , '' Peter said .
`` O Peter , you know it matters . ''
`` Well , then , come with me to the little house . ''
`` May I , mummy ? ''
`` Certainly not .
I have got you home again , and I mean to keep you . ''
`` But he does so need a mother . ''
`` So do you , my love . ''
`` Oh , all right , '' Peter said , as if he had asked her from politeness merely ; but Mrs. Darling saw his mouth twitch , and she made this handsome offer : to let Wendy go to him for a week every year to do his spring cleaning .
Wendy would have preferred a more permanent arrangement ; and it seemed to her that spring would be long in coming ; but this promise sent Peter away quite gay again .
He had no sense of time , and was so full of adventures that all I have told you about him is only a halfpenny-worth of them .
I suppose it was because Wendy knew this that her last words to him were these rather plaintive ones : `` You wo n't forget me , Peter , will you , before spring cleaning time comes ? ''
Of course Peter promised ; and then he flew away .
He took Mrs. Darling 's kiss with him .
The kiss that had been for no one else , Peter took quite easily .
Funny .
But she seemed satisfied .
Of course all the boys went to school ; and most of them got into Class III , but Slightly was put first into Class IV and then into Class V. Class I is the top class .
Before they had attended school a week they saw what goats they had been not to remain on the island ; but it was too late now , and soon they settled down to being as ordinary as you or me or Jenkins minor -LSB- the younger Jenkins -RSB- .
It is sad to have to say that the power to fly gradually left them .
At first Nana tied their feet to the bed-posts so that they should not fly away in the night ; and one of their diversions by day was to pretend to fall off buses -LSB- the English double-deckers -RSB- ; but by and by they ceased to tug at their bonds in bed , and found that they hurt themselves when they let go of the bus .
In time they could not even fly after their hats .
Want of practice , they called it ; but what it really meant was that they no longer believed .
Michael believed longer than the other boys , though they jeered at him ; so he was with Wendy when Peter came for her at the end of the first year .
She flew away with Peter in the frock she had woven from leaves and berries in the Neverland , and her one fear was that he might notice how short it had become ; but he never noticed , he had so much to say about himself .
She had looked forward to thrilling talks with him about old times , but new adventures had crowded the old ones from his mind .
`` Who is Captain Hook ? ''
he asked with interest when she spoke of the arch enemy .
`` Do n't you remember , '' she asked , amazed , `` how you killed him and saved all our lives ? ''
`` I forget them after I kill them , '' he replied carelessly .
When she expressed a doubtful hope that Tinker Bell would be glad to see her he said , `` Who is Tinker Bell ? ''
`` O Peter , '' she said , shocked ; but even when she explained he could not remember .
`` There are such a lot of them , '' he said .
`` I expect she is no more . ''
I expect he was right , for fairies do n't live long , but they are so little that a short time seems a good while to them .
Wendy was pained too to find that the past year was but as yesterday to Peter ; it had seemed such a long year of waiting to her .
But he was exactly as fascinating as ever , and they had a lovely spring cleaning in the little house on the tree tops .
Next year he did not come for her .
She waited in a new frock because the old one simply would not meet ; but he never came .
`` Perhaps he is ill , '' Michael said .
`` You know he is never ill . ''
Michael came close to her and whispered , with a shiver , `` Perhaps there is no such person , Wendy ! ''
and then Wendy would have cried if Michael had not been crying .
Peter came next spring cleaning ; and the strange thing was that he never knew he had missed a year .
That was the last time the girl Wendy ever saw him .
For a little longer she tried for his sake not to have growing pains ; and she felt she was untrue to him when she got a prize for general knowledge .
But the years came and went without bringing the careless boy ; and when they met again Wendy was a married woman , and Peter was no more to her than a little dust in the box in which she had kept her toys .
Wendy was grown up .
You need not be sorry for her .
She was one of the kind that likes to grow up .
In the end she grew up of her own free will a day quicker than other girls .
All the boys were grown up and done for by this time ; so it is scarcely worth while saying anything more about them .
You may see the twins and Nibs and Curly any day going to an office , each carrying a little bag and an umbrella .
Michael is an engine-driver -LSB- train engineer -RSB- .
Slightly married a lady of title , and so he became a lord .
You see that judge in a wig coming out at the iron door ?
That used to be Tootles .
The bearded man who does n't know any story to tell his children was once John .
Wendy was married in white with a pink sash .
It is strange to think that Peter did not alight in the church and forbid the banns -LSB- formal announcement of a marriage -RSB- .
Years rolled on again , and Wendy had a daughter .
This ought not to be written in ink but in a golden splash .
She was called Jane , and always had an odd inquiring look , as if from the moment she arrived on the mainland she wanted to ask questions .
When she was old enough to ask them they were mostly about Peter Pan .
She loved to hear of Peter , and Wendy told her all she could remember in the very nursery from which the famous flight had taken place .
It was Jane 's nursery now , for her father had bought it at the three per cents -LSB- mortgage rate -RSB- from Wendy 's father , who was no longer fond of stairs .
Mrs. Darling was now dead and forgotten .
There were only two beds in the nursery now , Jane 's and her nurse 's ; and there was no kennel , for Nana also had passed away .
She died of old age , and at the end she had been rather difficult to get on with ; being very firmly convinced that no one knew how to look after children except herself .
Once a week Jane 's nurse had her evening off ; and then it was Wendy 's part to put Jane to bed .
That was the time for stories .
It was Jane 's invention to raise the sheet over her mother 's head and her own , thus making a tent , and in the awful darkness to whisper : `` What do we see now ? ''
`` I do n't think I see anything to-night , '' says Wendy , with a feeling that if Nana were here she would object to further conversation .
`` Yes , you do , '' says Jane , `` you see when you were a little girl . ''
`` That is a long time ago , sweetheart , '' says Wendy .
`` Ah me , how time flies ! ''
`` Does it fly , '' asks the artful child , `` the way you flew when you were a little girl ? ''
`` The way I flew ?
Do you know , Jane , I sometimes wonder whether I ever did really fly . ''
`` Yes , you did . ''
`` The dear old days when I could fly ! ''
`` Why ca n't you fly now , mother ? ''
`` Because I am grown up , dearest .
When people grow up they forget the way . ''
`` Why do they forget the way ? ''
`` Because they are no longer gay and innocent and heartless .
It is only the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly . ''
`` What is gay and innocent and heartless ?
I do wish I were gay and innocent and heartless . ''
Or perhaps Wendy admits she does see something .
`` I do believe , '' she says , `` that it is this nursery . ''
`` I do believe it is , '' says Jane .
`` Go on . ''
They are now embarked on the great adventure of the night when Peter flew in looking for his shadow .
`` The foolish fellow , '' says Wendy , `` tried to stick it on with soap , and when he could not he cried , and that woke me , and I sewed it on for him . ''
`` You have missed a bit , '' interrupts Jane , who now knows the story better than her mother .
`` When you saw him sitting on the floor crying , what did you say ? ''
`` I sat up in bed and I said , ` Boy , why are you crying ? ' ''
`` Yes , that was it , '' says Jane , with a big breath .
`` And then he flew us all away to the Neverland and the fairies and the pirates and the redskins and the mermaid 's lagoon , and the home under the ground , and the little house . ''
`` Yes !
which did you like best of all ? ''
`` I think I liked the home under the ground best of all . ''
`` Yes , so do I .
What was the last thing Peter ever said to you ? ''
`` The last thing he ever said to me was , ` Just always be waiting for me , and then some night you will hear me crowing . ' ''
`` Yes . ''
`` But , alas , he forgot all about me , '' Wendy said it with a smile .
She was as grown up as that .
`` What did his crow sound like ? ''
Jane asked one evening .
`` It was like this , '' Wendy said , trying to imitate Peter 's crow .
`` No , it was n't , '' Jane said gravely , `` it was like this ; '' and she did it ever so much better than her mother .
Wendy was a little startled .
`` My darling , how can you know ? ''
`` I often hear it when I am sleeping , '' Jane said .
`` Ah yes , many girls hear it when they are sleeping , but I was the only one who heard it awake . ''
`` Lucky you , '' said Jane .
And then one night came the tragedy .
It was the spring of the year , and the story had been told for the night , and Jane was now asleep in her bed .
Wendy was sitting on the floor , very close to the fire , so as to see to darn , for there was no other light in the nursery ; and while she sat darning she heard a crow .
Then the window blew open as of old , and Peter dropped in on the floor .
He was exactly the same as ever , and Wendy saw at once that he still had all his first teeth .
He was a little boy , and she was grown up .
She huddled by the fire not daring to move , helpless and guilty , a big woman .
`` Hullo , Wendy , '' he said , not noticing any difference , for he was thinking chiefly of himself ; and in the dim light her white dress might have been the nightgown in which he had seen her first .
`` Hullo , Peter , '' she replied faintly , squeezing herself as small as possible .
Something inside her was crying `` Woman , Woman , let go of me . ''
`` Hullo , where is John ? ''
he asked , suddenly missing the third bed .
`` John is not here now , '' she gasped .
`` Is Michael asleep ? ''
he asked , with a careless glance at Jane .
`` Yes , '' she answered ; and now she felt that she was untrue to Jane as well as to Peter .
`` That is not Michael , '' she said quickly , lest a judgment should fall on her .
Peter looked .
`` Hullo , is it a new one ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Boy or girl ? ''
`` Girl . ''
Now surely he would understand ; but not a bit of it .
`` Peter , '' she said , faltering , `` are you expecting me to fly away with you ? ''
`` Of course ; that is why I have come . ''
He added a little sternly , `` Have you forgotten that this is spring cleaning time ? ''
She knew it was useless to say that he had let many spring cleaning times pass .
`` I ca n't come , '' she said apologetically , `` I have forgotten how to fly . ''
`` I 'll soon teach you again . ''
`` O Peter , do n't waste the fairy dust on me . ''
She had risen ; and now at last a fear assailed him .
`` What is it ? ''
he cried , shrinking .
`` I will turn up the light , '' she said , `` and then you can see for yourself . ''
For almost the only time in his life that I know of , Peter was afraid .
`` Do n't turn up the light , '' he cried .
She let her hands play in the hair of the tragic boy .
She was not a little girl heart-broken about him ; she was a grown woman smiling at it all , but they were wet eyed smiles .
Then she turned up the light , and Peter saw .
He gave a cry of pain ; and when the tall beautiful creature stooped to lift him in her arms he drew back sharply .
`` What is it ? ''
he cried again .
She had to tell him .
`` I am old , Peter .
I am ever so much more than twenty .
I grew up long ago . ''
`` You promised not to ! ''
`` I could n't help it .
I am a married woman , Peter . ''
`` No , you 're not . ''
`` Yes , and the little girl in the bed is my baby . ''
`` No , she 's not . ''
But he supposed she was ; and he took a step towards the sleeping child with his dagger upraised .
Of course he did not strike .
He sat down on the floor instead and sobbed ; and Wendy did not know how to comfort him , though she could have done it so easily once .
She was only a woman now , and she ran out of the room to try to think .
Peter continued to cry , and soon his sobs woke Jane .
She sat up in bed , and was interested at once .
`` Boy , '' she said , `` why are you crying ? ''
Peter rose and bowed to her , and she bowed to him from the bed .
`` Hullo , '' he said .
`` Hullo , '' said Jane .
`` My name is Peter Pan , '' he told her .
`` Yes , I know . ''
`` I came back for my mother , '' he explained , `` to take her to the Neverland . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' Jane said , `` I have been waiting for you . ''
When Wendy returned diffidently she found Peter sitting on the bed-post crowing gloriously , while Jane in her nighty was flying round the room in solemn ecstasy .
`` She is my mother , '' Peter explained ; and Jane descended and stood by his side , with the look in her face that he liked to see on ladies when they gazed at him .
`` He does so need a mother , '' Jane said .
`` Yes , I know . ''
Wendy admitted rather forlornly ; `` no one knows it so well as I. '' `` Good-bye , '' said Peter to Wendy ; and he rose in the air , and the shameless Jane rose with him ; it was already her easiest way of moving about .
Wendy rushed to the window .
`` No , no , '' she cried .
`` It is just for spring cleaning time , '' Jane said , `` he wants me always to do his spring cleaning . ''
`` If only I could go with you , '' Wendy sighed .
`` You see you ca n't fly , '' said Jane .
Of course in the end Wendy let them fly away together .
Our last glimpse of her shows her at the window , watching them receding into the sky until they were as small as stars .
As you look at Wendy , you may see her hair becoming white , and her figure little again , for all this happened long ago .
Jane is now a common grown-up , with a daughter called Margaret ; and every spring cleaning time , except when he forgets , Peter comes for Margaret and takes her to the Neverland , where she tells him stories about himself , to which he listens eagerly .
When Margaret grows up she will have a daughter , who is to be Peter 's mother in turn ; and thus it will go on , so long as children are gay and innocent and heartless .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : James_Matthew_Barrie___Peter_Pan_in_Kensington_Gardens,_Version_1.txt.out
I THE GRAND TOUR OF THE GARDENS You must see for yourselves that it will be difficult to follow Peter Pan 's adventures unless you are familiar with the Kensington Gardens .
They are in London , where the King lives , and I used to take David there nearly every day unless he was looking decidedly flushed .
No child has ever been in the whole of the Gardens , because it is so soon time to turn back .
The reason it is soon time to turn back is that , if you are as small as David , you sleep from twelve to one .
If your mother was not so sure that you sleep from twelve to one , you could most likely see the whole of them .
The Gardens are bounded on one side by a never-ending line of omnibuses , over which your nurse has such authority that if she holds up her finger to any one of them it stops immediately .
She then crosses with you in safety to the other side .
There are more gates to the Gardens than one gate , but that is the one you go in at , and before you go in you speak to the lady with the balloons , who sits just outside .
This is as near to being inside as she may venture , because , if she were to let go her hold of the railings for one moment , the balloons would lift her up , and she would be flown away .
She sits very squat , for the balloons are always tugging at her , and the strain has given her quite a red face .
Once she was a new one , because the old one had let go , and David was very sorry for the old one , but as she did let go , he wished he had been there to see .
-LSB- Illustration : The Hump , which is the part of the Broad Walk where all the big races are run -RSB- The Gardens are a tremendous big place , with millions and hundreds of trees ; and first you come to the Figs , but you scorn to loiter there , for the Figs is the resort of superior little persons , who are forbidden to mix with the commonalty , and is so named , according to legend , because they dress in full fig .
These dainty ones are themselves contemptuously called Figs by David and other heroes , and you have a key to the manners and customs of this dandiacal section of the Gardens when I tell you that cricket is called crickets here .
Occasionally a rebel Fig climbs over the fence into the world , and such a one was Miss Mabel Grey , of whom I shall tell you when we come to Miss Mabel Grey 's gate .
She was the only really celebrated Fig .
We are now in the Broad Walk , and it is as much bigger than the other walks as your father is bigger than you .
David wondered if it began little , and grew and grew , until it was quite grown up , and whether the other walks are its babies , and he drew a picture , which diverted him very much , of the Broad Walk giving a tiny walk an airing in a perambulator .
In the Broad Walk you meet all the people who are worth knowing , and there is usually a grown-up with them to prevent them going on the damp grass , and to make them stand disgraced at the corner of a seat if they have been mad-dog or Mary-Annish .
To be Mary-Annish is to behave like a girl , whimpering because nurse wo n't carry you , or simpering with your thumb in your mouth , and it is a hateful quality ; but to be mad-dog is to kick out at everything , and there is some satisfaction in that .
If I were to point out all the notable places as we pass up the Broad Walk , it would be time to turn back before we reach them , and I simply wave my stick at Cecco Hewlett 's Tree , that memorable spot where a boy called Cecco lost his penny , and , looking for it , found twopence .
There has been a good deal of excavation going on there ever since .
Farther up the walk is the little wooden house in which Marmaduke Perry hid .
There is no more awful story of the Gardens than this of Marmaduke Perry , who had been Mary-Annish three days in succession , and was sentenced to appear in the Broad Walk dressed in his sister 's clothes .
He hid in the little wooden house , and refused to emerge until they brought him knickerbockers with pockets .
You now try to go to the Round Pond , but nurses hate it , because they are not really manly , and they make you look the other way , at the Big Penny and the Baby 's Palace .
She was the most celebrated baby of the Gardens , and lived in the palace all alone , with ever so many dolls , so people rang the bell , and up she got out of her bed , though it was past six o'clock , and she lighted a candle and opened the door in her nighty , and then they all cried with great rejoicings , ` Hail , Queen of England ! '
What puzzled David most was how she knew where the matches were kept .
The Big Penny is a statue about her .
Next we come to the Hump , which is the part of the Broad Walk where all the big races are run ; and even though you had no intention of running you do run when you come to the Hump , it is such a fascinating , slide-down kind of place .
Often you stop when you have run about half-way down it , and then you are lost ; but there is another little wooden house near here , called the Lost House , and so you tell the man that you are lost and then he finds you .
It is glorious fun racing down the Hump , but you ca n't do it on windy days because then you are not there , but the fallen leaves do it instead of you .
There is almost nothing that has such a keen sense of fun as a fallen leaf .
From the Hump we can see the gate that is called after Miss Mabel Grey , the Fig I promised to tell you about .
There were always two nurses with her , or else one mother and one nurse , and for a long time she was a pattern-child who always coughed off the table and said , ` How do you do ? '
to the other Figs , and the only game she played at was flinging a ball gracefully and letting the nurse bring it back to her .
Then one day she tired of it all and went mad-dog , and , first , to show that she really was mad-dog , she unloosened both her boot-laces and put out her tongue east , west , north , and south .
She then flung her sash into a puddle and danced on it till dirty water was squirted over her frock , after which she climbed the fence and had a series of incredible adventures , one of the least of which was that she kicked off both her boots .
At last she came to the gate that is now called after her , out of which she ran into streets David and I have never been in though we have heard them roaring , and still she ran on and would never again have been heard of had not her mother jumped into a ` bus and thus overtaken her .
It all happened , I should say , long ago , and this is not the Mabel Grey whom David knows .
-LSB- Illustration : There is almost nothing that has such a keen sense of fun as a fallen leaf -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- Returning up the Broad Walk we have on our right the Baby Walk , which is so full of perambulators that you could cross from side to side stepping on babies , but the nurses wo n't let you do it .
From this walk a passage called Bunting 's Thumb , because it is that length , leads into Picnic Street , where there are real kettles , and chestnut-blossom falls into your mug as you are drinking .
Quite common children picnic here also , and the blossom falls into their mugs just the same .
Next comes St. Govor 's Well , which was full of water when Malcolm the Bold fell into it .
He was his mother 's favourite , and he let her put her arm round his neck in public because she was a widow ; but he was also partial to adventures , and liked to play with a chimney-sweep who had killed a good many bears .
The sweep 's name was Sooty , and one day , when they were playing near the well , Malcolm fell in and would have been drowned had not Sooty dived in and rescued him ; and the water had washed Sooty clean , and he now stood revealed as Malcolm 's long-lost father .
So Malcolm would not let his mother put her arm round his neck any more .
Between the well and the Round Pond are the cricket pitches , and frequently the choosing of sides exhausts so much time that there is scarcely any cricket .
Everybody wants to bat first , and as soon as he is out he bowls unless you are the better wrestler , and while you are wrestling with him the fielders have scattered to play at something else .
The Gardens are noted for two kinds of cricket : boy cricket , which is real cricket with a bat , and girl cricket , which is with a racquet and the governess .
Girls ca n't really play cricket , and when you are watching their futile efforts you make funny sounds at them .
Nevertheless , there was a very disagreeable incident one day when some forward girls challenged David 's team , and a disturbing creature called Angela Clare sent down so many yorkers that -- However , instead of telling you the result of that regrettable match I shall pass on hurriedly to the Round Pond , which is the wheel that keeps all the gardens going .
-LSB- Illustration : The Serpentine is a lovely lake , and there is a drowned forest at the bottom of it .
If you peer over the edge you can see the trees all growing upside down , and they say that at night there are also drowned stars in it -RSB- It is round because it is in the very middle of the Gardens , and when you are come to it you never want to go any farther .
You ca n't be good all the time at the Round Pond , however much you try .
You can be good in the Broad Walk all the time , but not at the Round Pond , and the reason is that you forget , and , when you remember , you are so wet that you may as well be wetter .
There are men who sail boats on the Round Pond , such big boats that they bring them in barrows , and sometimes in perambulators , and then the baby has to walk .
The bow-legged children in the Gardens are those who had to walk too soon because their father needed the perambulator .
You always want to have a yacht to sail on the Round Pond , and in the end your uncle gives you one ; and to carry it to the pond the first day is splendid , also to talk about it to boys who have no uncle is splendid , but soon you like to leave it at home .
For the sweetest craft that slips her moorings in the Round Pond is what is called a stick-boat , because she is rather like a stick until she is in the water and you are holding the string .
Then as you walk round , pulling her , you see little men running about her deck , and sails rise magically and catch the breeze , and you put in on dirty nights at snug harbours which are unknown to the lordly yachts .
Night passes in a twink , and again your rakish craft noses for the wind , whales spout , you glide over buried cities , and have brushes with pirates , and cast anchor on coral isles .
You are a solitary boy while all this is taking place , for two boys together can not adventure far upon the Round Pond , and though you may talk to yourself throughout the voyage , giving orders and executing them with despatch , you know not , when it is time to go home , where you have been or what swelled your sails ; your treasure-trove is all locked away in your hold , so to speak , which will be opened , perhaps , by another little boy many years afterwards .
But those yachts have nothing in their hold .
Does any one return to this haunt of his youth because of the yachts that used to sail it ?
Oh no .
It is the stick-boat that is freighted with memories .
The yachts are toys , their owner a fresh-water mariner ; they can cross and recross a pond only while the stick-boat goes to sea .
You yachtsmen with your wands , who think we are all there to gaze on you , your ships are only accidents of this place , and were they all to be boarded and sunk by the ducks , the real business of the Round Pond would be carried on as usual .
-LSB- Illustration : The island on which all the birds are born that become baby boys and girls -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- Paths from everywhere crowd like children to the pond .
Some of them are ordinary paths , which have a rail on each side , and are made by men with their coats off , but others are vagrants , wide at one spot , and at another so narrow that you can stand astride them .
They are called Paths that have Made Themselves , and David did wish he could see them doing it .
But , like all the most wonderful things that happen in the Gardens , it is done , we concluded , at night after the gates are closed .
We have also decided that the paths make themselves because it is their only chance of getting to the Round Pond .
One of these gypsy paths comes from the place where the sheep get their hair cut .
When David shed his curls at the hairdresser 's , I am told , he said good-bye to them without a tremor , though his mother has never been quite the same bright creature since ; so he despises the sheep as they run from their shearer , and calls out tauntingly , ` Cowardly , cowardly custard ! '
But when the man grips them between his legs David shakes a fist at him for using such big scissors .
Another startling moment is when the man turns back the grimy wool from the sheep 's shoulders and they look suddenly like ladies in the stalls of a theatre .
The sheep are so frightened by the shearing that it makes them quite white and thin , and as soon as they are set free they begin to nibble the grass at once , quite anxiously , as if they feared that they would never be worth eating .
David wonders whether they know each other , now that they are so different , and if it makes them fight with the wrong ones .
They are great fighters , and thus so unlike country sheep that every year they give my St. Bernard dog , Porthos , a shock .
He can make a field of country sheep fly by merely announcing his approach , but these town sheep come toward him with no promise of gentle entertainment , and then a light from last year breaks upon Porthos .
He can not with dignity retreat , but he stops and looks about him as if lost in admiration of the scenery , and presently he strolls away with a fine indifference and a glint at me from the corner of his eye .
-LSB- Illustration : Porthos -RSB- The Serpentine begins near here .
It is a lovely lake , and there is a drowned forest at the bottom of it .
If you peer over the edge you can see the trees all growing upside down , and they say that at night there are also drowned stars in it .
If so , Peter Pan sees them when he is sailing across the lake in the Thrush 's Nest .
A small part only of the Serpentine is in the Gardens , for soon it passes beneath a bridge to far away where the island is on which all the birds are born that become baby boys and girls .
No one who is human , except Peter Pan -LRB- and he is only half human -RRB- , can land on the island , but you may write what you want -LRB- boy or girl , dark or fair -RRB- on a piece of paper , and then twist it into the shape of a boat and slip it into the water , and it reaches Peter Pan 's island after dark .
-LSB- Illustration : One of the Paths that have Made Themselves -RSB- We are on the way home now , though of course , it is all pretence that we can go to so many of the places in one day .
I should have had to be carrying David long ago , and resting on every seat like old Mr. Salford .
That was what we called him , because he always talked to us of a lovely place called Salford where he had been born .
He was a crab-apple of an old gentleman who wandered all day in the Gardens from seat to seat trying to fall in with somebody who was acquainted with the town of Salford , and when we had known him for a year or more we actually did meet another aged solitary who had once spent Saturday to Monday in Salford .
He was meek and timid , and carried his address inside his hat , and whatever part of London he was in search of he always went to Westminster Abbey first as a starting-point .
Him we carried in triumph to our other friend , with the story of that Saturday to Monday , and never shall I forget the gloating joy with which Mr. Salford leapt at him .
They have been cronies ever since , and I notice that Mr. Salford , who naturally does most of the talking , keeps tight grip of the other old man 's coat .
-LSB- Illustration : Old Mr. Salford was a crab-apple of an old gentleman who wandered all day in the Gardens -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Away he flew , right over the houses to the Gardens -RSB- The two last places before you come to our gate are the Dogs ' Cemetery and the chaffinch 's nest , but we pretend not to know what the Dogs ' Cemetery is , as Porthos is always with us .
The nest is very sad .
It is quite white , and the way we found it was wonderful .
We were having another look among the bushes for David 's lost worsted ball , and instead of the ball we found a lovely nest made of the worsted , and containing four eggs , with scratches on them very like David 's handwriting , so we think they must have been the mother 's love-letters to the little ones inside .
Every day we were in the Gardens we paid a call at the nest , taking care that no cruel boy should see us , and we dropped crumbs , and soon the bird knew us as friends , and sat in the nest looking at us kindly with her shoulders hunched up .
But one day when we went there were only two eggs in the nest , and the next time there were none .
The saddest part of it was that the poor little chaffinch fluttered about the bushes , looking so reproachfully at us that we knew she thought we had done it ; and though David tried to explain to her , it was so long since he had spoken the bird language that I fear she did not understand .
He and I left the Gardens that day with our knuckles in our eyes .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` The Grand Tour of the Gardens ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` Peter Pan ' -RSB- II PETER PAN If you ask your mother whether she knew about Peter Pan when she was a little girl , she will say , ` Why , of course I did , child ' ; and if you ask her whether he rode on a goat in those days , she will say , ` What a foolish question to ask ; certainly he did . '
Then if you ask your grandmother whether she knew about Peter Pan when she was a girl , she also says , ` Why , of course I did , child , ' but if you ask her whether he rode on a goat in those days , she says she never heard of his having a goat .
Perhaps she has forgotten , just as she sometimes forgets your name and calls you Mildred , which is your mother 's name .
Still , she could hardly forget such an important thing as the goat .
Therefore there was no goat when your grandmother was a little girl .
This shows that , in telling the story of Peter Pan , to begin with the goat -LRB- as most people do -RRB- is as silly as to put on your jacket before your vest .
Of course , it also shows that Peter is ever so old , but he is really always the same age , so that does not matter in the least .
His age is one week , and though he was born so long ago he has never had a birthday , nor is there the slightest chance of his ever having one .
The reason is that he escaped from being a human when he was seven days old ; he escaped by the window and flew back to the Kensington Gardens .
If you think he was the only baby who ever wanted to escape , it shows how completely you have forgotten your own young days .
When David heard this story first he was quite certain that he had never tried to escape , but I told him to think back hard , pressing his hands to his temples , and when he had done this hard , and even harder , he distinctly remembered a youthful desire to return to the tree-tops , and with that memory came others , as that he had lain in bed planning to escape as soon as his mother was asleep , and how she had once caught him half-way up the chimney .
All children could have such recollections if they would press their hands hard to their temples , for , having been birds before they were human , they are naturally a little wild during the first few weeks , and very itchy at the shoulders , where their wings used to be .
So David tells me .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairies have their tiffs with the birds -RSB- I ought to mention here that the following is our way with a story : First I tell it to him , and then he tells it to me , the understanding being that it is quite a different story ; and then I retell it with his additions , and so we go on until no one could say whether it is more his story or mine .
In this story of Peter Pan , for instance , the bald narrative and most of the moral reflections are mine , though not all , for this boy can be a stern moralist ; but the interesting bits about the ways and customs of babies in the bird-stage are mostly reminiscences of David 's , recalled by pressing his hands to his temples and thinking hard .
Well , Peter Pan got out by the window , which had no bars .
Standing on the ledge he could see trees far away , which were doubtless the Kensington Gardens , and the moment he saw them he entirely forgot that he was now a little boy in a nightgown , and away he flew , right over the houses to the Gardens .
It is wonderful that he could fly without wings , but the place itched tremendously , and -- and -- perhaps we could all fly if we were as dead-confident-sure of our capacity to do it as was bold Peter Pan that evening .
He alighted gaily on the open sward , between the Baby 's Palace and the Serpentine , and the first thing he did was to lie on his back and kick .
He was quite unaware already that he had ever been human , and thought he was a bird , even in appearance , just the same as in his early days , and when he tried to catch a fly he did not understand that the reason he missed it was because he had attempted to seize it with his hand , which , of course , a bird never does .
He saw , however , that it must be past Lock-out Time , for there were a good many fairies about , all too busy to notice him ; they were getting breakfast ready , milking their cows , drawing water , and so on , and the sight of the water-pails made him thirsty , so he flew over to the Round Pond to have a drink .
He stooped and dipped his beak in the pond ; he thought it was his beak , but , of course , it was only his nose , and therefore , very little water came up , and that not so refreshing as usual , so next he tried a puddle and he fell flop into it .
When a real bird falls in flop , he spreads out his feathers and pecks them dry , but Peter could not remember what was the thing to do , and he decided rather sulkily to go to sleep on the weeping-beech in the Baby Walk .
At first he found some difficulty in balancing himself on a branch , but presently he remembered the way , and fell asleep .
He awoke long before morning , shivering , and saying to himself , ' I never was out on such a cold night ' ; he had really been out on colder nights when he was a bird , but , of course , as everybody knows , what seems a warm night to a bird is a cold night to a boy in a nightgown .
Peter also felt strangely uncomfortable , as if his head was stuffy ; he heard loud noises that made him look round sharply , though they were really himself sneezing .
There was something he wanted very much , but , though he knew he wanted it , he could not think what it was .
What he wanted so much was his mother to blow his nose , but that never struck him , so he decided to appeal to the fairies for enlightenment .
They are reputed to know a good deal .
-LSB- Illustration : When he heard Peter 's voice he popped in alarm behind a tulip -RSB- There were two of them strolling along the Baby Walk , with their arms round each other 's waists , and he hopped down to address them .
The fairies have their tiffs with the birds , but they usually give a civil answer to a civil question , and he was quite angry when these two ran away the moment they saw him .
Another was lolling on a garden chair , reading a postage-stamp which some human had let fall , and when he heard Peter 's voice he popped in alarm behind a tulip .
To Peter 's bewilderment he discovered that every fairy he met fled from him .
A band of workmen , who were sawing down a toadstool , rushed away , leaving their tools behind them .
A milkmaid turned her pail upside down and hid in it .
Soon the Gardens were in an uproar .
Crowds of fairies were running this way and that , asking each other stoutly who was afraid ; lights were extinguished , doors barricaded , and from the grounds of Queen Mab 's palace came the rub-a-dub of drums , showing that the royal guard had been called out .
A regiment of Lancers came charging down the Broad Walk , armed with holly-leaves , with which they jag the enemy horribly in passing .
Peter heard the little people crying everywhere that there was a human in the Gardens after Lock-out Time , but he never thought for a moment that he was the human .
He was feeling stuffier and stuffier , and more and more wistful to learn what he wanted done to his nose , but he pursued them with the vital question in vain ; the timid creatures ran from him , and even the Lancers , when he approached them up the Hump , turned swiftly into a side-walk , on the pretence that they saw him there .
-LSB- Illustration : A band of workmen , who were sawing down a toadstool , rushed away , leaving their tools behind them -RSB- Despairing of the fairies , he resolved to consult the birds , but now he remembered , as an odd thing , that all the birds on the weeping-beech had flown away when he alighted on it , and though this had not troubled him at the time , he saw its meaning now .
Every living thing was shunning him .
Poor little Peter Pan !
he sat down and cried , and even then he did not know that , for a bird , he was sitting on his wrong part .
It is a blessing that he did not know , for otherwise he would have lost faith in his power to fly , and the moment you doubt whether you can fly , you cease for ever to be able to do it .
The reason birds can fly and we ca n't is simply that they have perfect faith , for to have faith is to have wings .
Now , except by flying , no one can reach the island in the Serpentine , for the boats of humans are forbidden to land there , and there are stakes round it , standing up in the water , on each of which a bird-sentinel sits by day and night .
It was to the island that Peter now flew to put his strange case before old Solomon Caw , and he alighted on it with relief , much heartened to find himself at last at home , as the birds call the island .
All of them were asleep , including the sentinels , except Solomon , who was wide awake on one side , and he listened quietly to Peter 's adventures , and then told him their true meaning .
` Look at your nightgown , if you do n't believe me , ' Solomon said ; and with staring eyes Peter looked at his nightgown , and then at the sleeping birds .
Not one of them wore anything .
` How many of your toes are thumbs ? '
said Solomon a little cruelly , and Peter saw , to his consternation , that all his toes were fingers .
The shock was so great that it drove away his cold .
` Ruffle your feathers , ' said that grim old Solomon , and Peter tried most desperately hard to ruffle his feathers , but he had none .
Then he rose up , quaking , and for the first time since he stood on the window ledge , he remembered a lady who had been very fond of him .
-LSB- Illustration : Put his strange case before old Solomon Caw -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- ' I think I shall go back to mother , ' he said , timidly .
` Good-bye , ' replied Solomon Caw with a queer look .
But Peter hesitated .
` Why do n't you go ? '
the old one asked politely . '
I suppose , ' said Peter huskily , ' I suppose I can still fly ? '
You see he had lost faith .
` Poor little half-and-half ! '
said Solomon , who was not really hard-hearted , ` you will never be able to fly again , not even on windy days .
You must live here on the island always . '
` And never even go to the Kensington Gardens ? '
Peter asked tragically .
` How could you get across ? '
said Solomon .
He promised very kindly , however , to teach Peter as many of the bird ways as could be learned by one of such an awkward shape .
` Then I sha n't be exactly a human ? '
Peter asked .
` No . '
` Nor exactly a bird ? '
` No . '
` What shall I be ? '
` You will be a Betwixt-and-Between , ' Solomon said , and certainly he was a wise old fellow , for that is exactly how it turned out .
The birds on the island never got used to him .
His oddities tickled them every day , as if they were quite new , though it was really the birds that were new .
They came out of the eggs daily , and laughed at him at once ; then off they soon flew to be humans , and other birds came out of other eggs ; and so it went on for ever .
The crafty mother-birds , when they tired of sitting on their eggs , used to get the young ones to break their shells a day before the right time by whispering to them that now was their chance to see Peter washing or drinking or eating .
Thousands gathered round him daily to watch him do these things , just as you watch the peacocks , and they screamed with delight when he lifted the crusts they flung him with his hands instead of in the usual way with the mouth .
All his food was brought to him from the Gardens at Solomon 's orders by the birds .
He would not eat worms or insects -LRB- which they thought very silly of him -RRB- , so they brought him bread in their beaks .
Thus , when you cry out , ` Greedy !
Greedy ! '
to the bird that flies away with the big crust , you know now that you ought not to do this , for he is very likely taking it to Peter Pan .
-LSB- Illustration : The birds on the island never got used to him .
His oddities tickled them every day -RSB- Peter wore no nightgown now .
You see , the birds were always begging him for bits of it to line their nests with , and , being very good-natured , he could not refuse , so by Solomon 's advice he had hidden what was left of it .
But , though he was now quite naked , you must not think that he was cold or unhappy .
He was usually very happy and gay , and the reason was that Solomon had kept his promise and taught him many of the bird ways .
To be easily pleased , for instance , and always to be really doing something , and to think that whatever he was doing was a thing of vast importance .
Peter became very clever at helping the birds to build their nests ; soon he could build better than a wood-pigeon , and nearly as well as a blackbird , though never did he satisfy the finches , and he made nice little water-troughs near the nests and dug up worms for the young ones with his fingers .
He also became very learned in bird-lore , and knew an east wind from a west wind by its smell , and he could see the grass growing and hear the insects walking about inside the tree-trunks .
But the best thing Solomon had done was to teach him to have a glad heart .
All birds have glad hearts unless you rob their nests , and so , as they were the only kind of heart Solomon knew about , it was easy to him to teach Peter how to have one .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter screamed out , ` Do it again ! '
and with great good-nature they did it several times -RSB- Peter 's heart was so glad that he felt he must sing all day long , just as the birds sing for joy , but , being partly human , he needed an instrument , so he made a pipe of reeds , and he used to sit by the shore of the island of an evening , practising the sough of the wind and the ripple of the water , and catching handfuls of the shine of the moon , and he put them all in his pipe and played them so beautifully that even the birds were deceived , and they would say to each other , ` Was that a fish leaping in the water or was it Peter playing leaping fish on his pipe ? '
And sometimes he played the birth of birds , and then the mothers would turn round in their nests to see whether they had laid an egg .
If you are a child of the Gardens you must know the chestnut-tree near the bridge , which comes out in flower first of all the chestnuts , but perhaps you have not heard why this tree leads the way .
It is because Peter wearies for summer and plays that it has come , and the chestnut being so near , hears him and is cheated .
-LSB- Illustration : A hundred flew off with the string , and Peter clung to the tail -RSB- But as Peter sat by the shore tootling divinely on his pipe he sometimes fell into sad thoughts , and then the music became sad also , and the reason of all this sadness was that he could not reach the Gardens , though he could see them through the arch of the bridge .
He knew he could never be a real human again , and scarcely wanted to be one , but oh !
how he longed to play as other children play , and of course there is no such lovely place to play in as the Gardens .
The birds brought him news of how boys and girls play , and wistful tears started in Peter 's eyes .
Perhaps you wonder why he did not swim across .
The reason was that he could not swim .
He wanted to know how to swim , but no one on the island knew the way except the ducks , and they are so stupid .
They were quite willing to teach him , but all they could say about it was , ` You sit down on the top of the water in this way , and then you kick out like that . '
Peter tried it often , but always before he could kick out he sank .
What he really needed to know was how you sit on the water without sinking , and they said it was quite impossible to explain such an easy thing as that .
Occasionally swans touched on the island , and he would give them all his day 's food and then ask them how they sat on the water , but as soon as he had no more to give them the hateful things hissed at him and sailed away .
Once he really thought he had discovered a way of reaching the Gardens .
A wonderful white thing , like a runaway newspaper , floated high over the island and then tumbled , rolling over and over after the manner of a bird that has broken its wing .
Peter was so frightened that he hid , but the birds told him it was only a kite , and what a kite is , and that it must have tugged its string out of a boy 's hand , and soared away .
After that they laughed at Peter for being so fond of the kite ; he loved it so much that he even slept with one hand on it , and I think this was pathetic and pretty , for the reason he loved it was because it had belonged to a real boy .
-LSB- Illustration : After this the birds said that they would help him no more in his mad enterprise -RSB- To the birds this was a very poor reason , but the older ones felt grateful to him at this time because he had nursed a number of fledglings through the German measles , and they offered to show him how birds fly a kite .
So six of them took the end of the string in their beaks and flew away with it ; and to his amazement it flew after them and went even higher than they .
Peter screamed out , ` Do it again ! '
and with great good-nature they did it several times , and always instead of thanking them he cried , ` Do it again ! '
which shows that even now he had not quite forgotten what it was to be a boy .
At last , with a grand design burning within his brave heart , he begged them to do it once more with him clinging to the tail , and now a hundred flew off with the string , and Peter clung to the tail , meaning to drop off when he was over the Gardens .
But the kite broke to pieces in the air , and he would have been drowned in the Serpentine had he not caught hold of two indignant swans and made them carry him to the island .
After this the birds said that they would help him no more in his mad enterprise .
Nevertheless , Peter did reach the Gardens at last by the help of Shelley 's boat , as I am now to tell you .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` Peter Pan ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` The Thrush 's Nest ' -RSB- III THE THRUSH 'S NEST Shelley was a young gentleman and as grown-up as he need ever expect to be .
He was a poet ; and they are never exactly grown-up .
They are people who despise money except what you need for to-day , and he had all that and five pounds over .
So , when he was walking in the Kensington Gardens , he made a paper boat of his bank-note , and sent it sailing on the Serpentine .
It reached the island at night ; and the look-out brought it to Solomon Caw , who thought at first that it was the usual thing , a message from a lady , saying she would be obliged if he could let her have a good one .
They always ask for the best one he has , and if he likes the letter he sends one from Class A , but if it ruffles him he sends very funny ones indeed .
Sometimes he sends none at all , and at another time he sends a nestful ; it all depends on the mood you catch him in .
He likes you to leave it all to him , and if you mention particularly that you hope he will see his way to making it a boy this time , he is almost sure to send another girl .
And whether you are a lady or only a little boy who wants a baby-sister , always take pains to write your address clearly .
You ca n't think what a lot of babies Solomon has sent to the wrong house .
Shelley 's boat , when opened , completely puzzled Solomon , and he took counsel of his assistants , who having walked over it twice , first with their toes pointed out , and then with their toes pointed in , decided that it came from some greedy person who wanted five .
They thought this because there was a large five printed on it .
` Preposterous ! '
cried Solomon in a rage , and he presented it to Peter ; anything useless which drifted upon the island was usually given to Peter as a plaything .
But he did not play with his precious bank-note , for he knew what it was at once , having been very observant during the week when he was an ordinary boy .
With so much money , he reflected , he could surely at last contrive to reach the Gardens , and he considered all the possible ways , and decided -LRB- wisely , I think -RRB- to choose the best way .
But , first , he had to tell the birds of the value of Shelley 's boat ; and though they were too honest to demand it back , he saw that they were galled , and they cast such black looks at Solomon , who was rather vain of his cleverness , that he flew away to the end of the island , and sat there very depressed with his head buried in his wings .
Now Peter knew that unless Solomon was on your side , you never got anything done for you in the island , so he followed him and tried to hearten him .
-LSB- Illustration : ` Preposterous ! '
cried Solomon in a rage -RSB- Nor was this all that Peter did to gain the powerful old fellow 's good-will .
You must know that Solomon had no intention of remaining in office all his life .
He looked forward to retiring by and by , and devoting his green old age to a life of pleasure on a certain yew-stump in the Figs which had taken his fancy , and for years he had been quietly filling his stocking .
It was a stocking belonging to some bathing person which had been cast upon the island , and at the time I speak of it contained a hundred and eighty crumbs , thirty-four nuts , sixteen crusts , a pen-wiper , and a boot-lace .
When his stocking was full , Solomon calculated that he would be able to retire on a competency .
Peter now gave him a pound .
He cut it off his bank-note with a sharp stick .
This made Solomon his friend for ever , and after the two had consulted together they called a meeting of the thrushes .
You will see presently why thrushes only were invited .
The scheme to be put before them was really Peter 's , but Solomon did most of the talking , because he soon became irritable if other people talked .
He began by saying that he had been much impressed by the superior ingenuity shown by the thrushes in nest-building , and this put them into good-humour at once , as it was meant to do ; for all the quarrels between birds are about the best way of building nests .
Other birds , said Solomon , omitted to line their nests with mud , and as a result they did not hold water .
Here he cocked his head as if he had used an unanswerable argument ; but , unfortunately , a Mrs. Finch had come to the meeting uninvited , and she squeaked out , ` We do n't build nests to hold water , but to hold eggs , ' and then the thrushes stopped cheering , and Solomon was so perplexed that he took several sips of water .
` Consider , ' he said at last , ` how warm the mud makes the nest . '
` Consider , ' cried Mrs. Finch , ` that when water gets into the nest it remains there and your little ones are drowned . '
The thrushes begged Solomon with a look to say something crushing in reply to this , but again he was perplexed .
` Try another drink , ' suggested Mrs. Finch pertly .
Kate was her name , and all Kates are saucy .
-LSB- Illustration : For years he had been quietly filling his stocking -RSB- Solomon did try another drink , and it inspired him .
` If , ' said he , ' a finch 's nest is placed on the Serpentine it fills and breaks to pieces , but a thrush 's nest is still as dry as the cup of a swan 's back . '
How the thrushes applauded !
Now they knew why they lined their nests with mud , and when Mrs. Finch called out , ` We do n't place our nests on the Serpentine , ' they did what they should have done at first -- chased her from the meeting .
After this it was most orderly .
What they had been brought together to hear , said Solomon , was this : their young friend , Peter Pan , as they well knew , wanted very much to be able to cross to the Gardens , and he now proposed , with their help , to build a boat .
At this the thrushes began to fidget , which made Peter tremble for his scheme .
Solomon explained hastily that what he meant was not one of the cumbrous boats that humans use ; the proposed boat was to be simply a thrush 's nest large enough to hold Peter .
But still , to Peter 's agony , the thrushes were sulky .
` We are very busy people , ' they grumbled , ` and this would be a big job . '
` Quite so , ' said Solomon , ` and , of course , Peter would not allow you to work for nothing .
You must remember that he is now in comfortable circumstances , and he will pay you such wages as you have never been paid before .
Peter Pan authorises me to say that you shall all be paid sixpence a day . '
Then all the thrushes hopped for joy , and that very day was begun the celebrated Building of the Boat .
All their ordinary business fell into arrears .
It was the time of the year when they should have been pairing , but not a thrush 's nest was built except this big one , and so Solomon soon ran short of thrushes with which to supply the demand from the mainland .
The stout , rather greedy children , who look so well in perambulators but get puffed easily when they walk , were all young thrushes once , and ladies often ask specially for them .
What do you think Solomon did ?
He sent over to the house-tops for a lot of sparrows and ordered them to lay their eggs in old thrushes ' nests , and sent their young to the ladies and swore they were all thrushes !
It was known afterwards on the island as the Sparrows ' Year ; and so , when you meet grown-up people in the Gardens who puff and blow as if they thought themselves bigger than they are , very likely they belong to that year .
You ask them .
-LSB- Illustration : When you meet grown-up people in the Gardens who puff and blow as if they thought themselves bigger than they are -RSB- Peter was a just master , and paid his work-people every evening .
They stood in rows on the branches , waiting politely while he cut the paper sixpences out of his bank-note , and presently he called the roll , and then each bird , as the names were mentioned , flew down and got sixpence .
It must have been a fine sight .
And at last , after months of labour , the boat was finished .
O the glory of Peter as he saw it growing more and more like a great thrush 's nest !
From the very beginning of the building of it he slept by its side , and often woke up to say sweet things to it , and after it was lined with mud and the mud had dried he always slept in it .
He sleeps in his nest still , and has a fascinating way of curling round in it , for it is just large enough to hold him comfortably when he curls round like a kitten .
It is brown inside , of course , but outside it is mostly green , being woven of grass and twigs , and when these wither or snap the walls are thatched afresh .
There are also a few feathers here and there , which came off the thrushes while they were building .
The other birds were extremely jealous , and said that the boat would not balance on the water , but it lay most beautifully steady ; they said the water would come into it , but no water came into it .
Next they said that Peter had no oars , and this caused the thrushes to look at each other in dismay ; but Peter replied that he had no need of oars , for he had a sail , and with such a proud , happy face he produced a sail which he had fashioned out of his nightgown , and though it was still rather like a nightgown it made a lovely sail .
And that night , the moon being full , and all the birds asleep , he did enter his coracle -LRB- as Master Francis Pretty would have said -RRB- and depart out of the island .
And first , he knew not why , he looked upward , with his hands clasped , and from that moment his eyes were pinned to the west .
He had promised the thrushes to begin by making short voyages , with them as his guides , but far away he saw the Kensington Gardens beckoning to him beneath the bridge , and he could not wait .
His face was flushed , but he never looked back ; there was an exultation in his little breast that drove out fear .
Was Peter the least gallant of the English mariners who have sailed westward to meet the Unknown ?
At first , his boat turned round and round , and he was driven back to the place of his starting , whereupon he shortened sail , by removing one of the sleeves , and was forthwith carried backwards by a contrary breeze , to his no small peril .
He now let go the sail , with the result that he was drifted towards the far shore , where are black shadows he knew not the dangers of , but suspected them , and so once more hoisted his nightgown and went roomer of the shadows until he caught a favouring wind , which bore him westward , but at so great a speed that he was like to be broke against the bridge .
Which , having avoided , he passed under the bridge and came , to his great rejoicing , within full sight of the delectable Gardens .
But having tried to cast anchor , which was a stone at the end of a piece of the kite-string , he found no bottom , and was fain to hold off , seeking for moorage ; and , feeling his way , he buffeted against a sunken reef that cast him overboard by the greatness of the shock , and he was near to being drowned , but clambered back into the vessel .
There now arose a mighty storm , accompanied by roaring of waters , such as he had never heard the like , and he was tossed this way and that , and his hands so numbed with the cold that he could not close them .
Having escaped the danger of which , he was mercifully carried into a small bay , where his boat rode at peace .
Nevertheless , he was not yet in safety ; for , on pretending to disembark , he found a multitude of small people drawn up on the shore to contest his landing , and shouting shrilly to him to be off , for it was long past Lock-out Time .
This , with much brandishing of their holly-leaves ; and also a company of them carried an arrow which some boy had left in the Gardens , and this they were prepared to use as a battering-ram .
Then Peter , who knew them for the fairies , called out that he was not an ordinary human and had no desire to do them displeasure , but to be their friend ; nevertheless , having found a jolly harbour , he was in no temper to draw off therefrom , and he warned them if they sought to mischief him to stand to their harms .
So saying , he boldly leapt ashore , and they gathered around him with intent to slay him , but there then arose a great cry among the women , and it was because they had now observed that his sail was a baby 's nightgown .
Whereupon , they straightway loved him , and grieved that their laps were too small , the which I can not explain , except by saying that such is the way of women .
The men-fairies now sheathed their weapons on observing the behaviour of their women , on whose intelligence they set great store , and they led him civilly to their queen , who conferred upon him the courtesy of the Gardens after Lock-out Time , and henceforth Peter could go whither he chose , and the fairies had orders to put him in comfort .
-LSB- Illustration : He passed under the bridge and came within full sight of the delectable Gardens -RSB- Such was his first voyage to the Gardens , and you may gather from the antiquity of the language that it took place a long time ago .
But Peter never grows any older , and if we could be watching for him under the bridge to-night -LRB- but , of course , we ca n't -RRB- , I dare say we should see him hoisting his nightgown and sailing or paddling towards us in the Thrush 's Nest .
When he sails , he sits down , but he stands up to paddle .
I shall tell you presently how he got his paddle .
Long before the time for the opening of the gates comes he steals back to the island , for people must not see him -LRB- he is not so human as all that -RRB- , but this gives him hours for play , and he plays exactly as real children play .
At least he thinks so , and it is one of the pathetic things about him that he often plays quite wrongly .
You see , he had no one to tell him how children really play , for the fairies are all more or less in hiding until dusk , and so know nothing , and though the birds pretended that they could tell him a great deal , when the time for telling came , it was wonderful how little they really knew .
They told him the truth about hide-and-seek , and he often plays it by himself , but even the ducks on the Round Pond could not explain to him what it is that makes the pond so fascinating to boys .
Every night the ducks have forgotten all the events of the day , except the number of pieces of cake thrown to them .
They are gloomy creatures , and say that cake is not what it was in their young days .
So Peter had to find out many things for himself .
He often played ships at the Round Pond , but his ship was only a hoop which he had found on the grass .
Of course , he had never seen a hoop , and he wondered what you play at with them , and decided that you play at pretending they are boats .
This hoop always sank at once , but he waded in for it , and sometimes he dragged it gleefully round the rim of the pond , and he was quite proud to think that he had discovered what boys do with hoops .
-LSB- Illustration : There now arose a mighty storm , and he was tossed this way and that -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- Another time , when he found a child 's pail , he thought it was for sitting in , and he sat so hard in it that he could scarcely get out of it .
Also he found a balloon .
It was bobbing about on the Hump , quite as if it was having a game by itself , and he caught it after an exciting chase .
But he thought it was a ball , and Jenny Wren had told him that boys kick balls , so he kicked it ; and after that he could not find it anywhere .
Perhaps the most surprising thing he found was a perambulator .
It was under a lime-tree , near the entrance to the Fairy Queen 's Winter Palace -LRB- which is within the circle of the seven Spanish chestnuts -RRB- , and Peter approached it warily , for the birds had never mentioned such things to him .
Lest it was alive , he addressed it politely ; and then , as it gave no answer , he went nearer and felt it cautiously .
He gave it a little push , and it ran from him , which made him think it must be alive after all ; but , as it had run from him , he was not afraid .
So he stretched out his hand to pull it to him , but this time it ran at him , and he was so alarmed that he leapt the railing and scudded away to his boat .
You must not think , however , that he was a coward , for he came back next night with a crust in one hand and a stick in the other , but the perambulator had gone , and he never saw any other one .
I have promised to tell you also about his paddle .
It was a child 's spade which he had found near St. Govor 's Well , and he thought it was a paddle .
Do you pity Peter Pan for making these mistakes ?
If so , I think it rather silly of you .
What I mean is that , of course , one must pity him now and then , but to pity him all the time would be impertinence .
He thought he had the most splendid time in the Gardens , and to think you have it is almost quite as good as really to have it .
He played without ceasing , while you often waste time by being mad-dog or Mary-Annish .
He could be neither of these things , for he had never heard of them , but do you think he is to be pitied for that ?
Oh , he was merry !
He was as much merrier than you , for instance , as you are merrier than your father .
Sometimes he fell , like a spinning-top , from sheer merriment .
Have you seen a greyhound leaping the fences of the Gardens ?
That is how Peter leaps them .
-LSB- Illustration : Fairies are all more or less in hiding until dusk -RSB- And think of the music of his pipe .
Gentlemen who walk home at night write to the papers to say they heard a nightingale in the Gardens , but it is really Peter 's pipe they hear .
Of course , he had no mother -- at least , what use was she to him ?
You can be sorry for him for that , but do n't be too sorry , for the next thing I mean to tell you is how he revisited her .
It was the fairies who gave him the chance .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` The Thrush 's Nest ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` Lock-out Time ' -RSB- IV LOCK-OUT TIME It is frightfully difficult to know much about the fairies , and almost the only thing known for certain is that there are fairies wherever there are children .
Long ago children were forbidden the Gardens , and at that time there was not a fairy in the place ; then the children were admitted , and the fairies came trooping in that very evening .
They ca n't resist following the children , but you seldom see them , partly because they live in the daytime behind the railings , where you are not allowed to go , and also partly because they are so cunning .
They are not a bit cunning after Lock-out , but until Lock-out , my word !
-LSB- Illustration : They are so cunning -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : When they think you are not looking they skip along pretty lively -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- When you were a bird you knew the fairies pretty well , and you remember a good deal about them in your babyhood , which it is a great pity you ca n't write down , for gradually you forget , and I have heard of children who declared that they had never once seen a fairy .
Very likely if they said this in the Kensington Gardens , they were standing looking at a fairy all the time .
The reason they were cheated was that she pretended to be something else .
This is one of their best tricks .
They usually pretend to be flowers , because the court sits in the Fairies ' Basin , and there are so many flowers there , and all along the Baby Walk , that a flower is the thing least likely to attract attention .
They dress exactly like flowers , and change with the seasons , putting on white when lilies are in and blue for bluebells , and so on .
They like crocus and hyacinth time best of all , as they are partial to a bit of colour , but tulips -LRB- except white ones , which are the fairy cradles -RRB- they consider garish , and they sometimes put off dressing like tulips for days , so that the beginning of the tulip weeks is almost the best time to catch them .
When they think you are not looking they skip along pretty lively , but if you look , and they fear there is no time to hide , they stand quite still pretending to be flowers .
Then , after you have passed without knowing that they were fairies , they rush home and tell their mothers they have had such an adventure .
The Fairy Basin , you remember , is all covered with ground-ivy -LRB- from which they make their castor-oil -RRB- , with flowers growing in it here and there .
Most of them really are flowers , but some of them are fairies .
You never can be sure of them , but a good plan is to walk by looking the other way , and then turn round sharply .
Another good plan , which David and I sometimes follow , is to stare them down .
After a long time they ca n't help winking , and then you know for certain that they are fairies .
-LSB- Illustration : But if you look , and they fear there is no time to hide , they stand quite still pretending to be flowers -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- There are also numbers of them along the Baby Walk , which is a famous gentle place , as spots frequented by fairies are called .
Once twenty-four of them had an extraordinary adventure .
They were a girls ' school out for a walk with the governess , and all wearing hyacinth gowns , when she suddenly put her finger to her mouth , and then they all stood still on an empty bed and pretended to be hyacinths .
Unfortunately what the governess had heard was two gardeners coming to plant new flowers in that very bed .
They were wheeling a hand-cart with the flowers in it , and were quite surprised to find the bed occupied .
` Pity to lift them hyacinths , ' said the one man .
` Duke 's orders , ' replied the other , and , having emptied the cart , they dug up the boarding-school and put the poor , terrified things in it in five rows .
Of course , neither the governess nor the girls dare let on that they were fairies , so they were carted far away to a potting-shed , out of which they escaped in the night without their shoes , but there was a great row about it among the parents , and the school was ruined .
As for their houses , it is no use looking for them , because they are the exact opposite of our houses .
You can see our houses by day but you ca n't see them by dark .
Well , you can see their houses by dark , but you ca n't see them by day , for they are the colour of night , and I never heard of any one yet who could see night in the daytime .
This does not mean that they are black , for night has its colours just as day has , but ever so much brighter .
Their blues and reds and greens are like ours with a light behind them .
The palace is entirely built of many-coloured glasses , and it is quite the loveliest of all royal residences , but the queen sometimes complains because the common people will peep in to see what she is doing .
They are very inquisitive folk , and press quite hard against the glass , and that is why their noses are mostly snubby .
The streets are miles long and very twisty , and have paths on each side made of bright worsted .
The birds used to steal the worsted for their nests , but a policeman has been appointed to hold on at the other end .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairies are exquisite dancers -RSB- One of the great differences between the fairies and us is that they never do anything useful .
When the first baby laughed for the first time , his laugh broke into a million pieces , and they all went skipping about .
That was the beginning of fairies .
They look tremendously busy , you know , as if they had not a moment to spare , but if you were to ask them what they are doing , they could not tell you in the least .
They are frightfully ignorant , and everything they do is make-believe .
They have a postman , but he never calls except at Christmas with his little box , and though they have beautiful schools , nothing is taught in them ; the youngest child being chief person is always elected mistress , and when she has called the roll , they all go out for a walk and never come back .
It is a very noticeable thing that , in fairy families , the youngest is always chief person , and usually becomes a prince or princess ; and children remember this , and think it must be so among humans also , and that is why they are often made uneasy when they come upon their mother furtively putting new frills on the basinette .
You have probably observed that your baby-sister wants to do all sorts of things that your mother and her nurse want her not to do -- to stand up at sitting-down time , and to sit down at stand-up time , for instance , or to wake up when she should fall asleep , or to crawl on the floor when she is wearing her best frock , and so on , and perhaps you put this down to naughtiness .
But it is not ; it simply means that she is doing as she has seen the fairies do ; she begins by following their ways , and it takes about two years to get her into the human ways .
Her fits of passion , which are awful to behold , and are usually called teething , are no such thing ; they are her natural exasperation , because we do n't understand her , though she is talking an intelligible language .
She is talking fairy .
The reason mothers and nurses know what her remarks mean , before other people know , as that ` Guch ' means ` Give it to me at once , ' while ` Wa ' is ` Why do you wear such a funny hat ? '
is because , mixing so much with babies , they have picked up a little of the fairy language .
-LSB- Illustration : A fairy ring -RSB- Of late David has been thinking back hard about the fairy tongue , with his hands clutching his temples , and he has remembered a number of their phrases which I shall tell you some day if I do n't forget .
He had heard them in the days when he was a thrush , and though I suggested to him that perhaps it is really bird language he is remembering , he says not , for these phrases are about fun and adventures , and the birds talked of nothing but nest-building .
He distinctly remembers that the birds used to go from spot to spot like ladies at shop windows , looking at the different nests and saying , ` Not my colour , my dear , ' and ` How would that do with a soft lining ? '
and ` But will it wear ? '
and ` What hideous trimming ! '
and so on .
-LSB- Illustration : These tricky fairies sometimes slyly change the board on a ball night -RSB- The fairies are exquisite dancers , and that is why one of the first things the baby does is to sign to you to dance to him and then to cry when you do it .
They hold their great balls in the open air , in what is called a fairy ring .
For weeks afterwards you can see the ring on the grass .
It is not there when they begin , but they make it by waltzing round and round .
Sometimes you will find mushrooms inside the ring , and these are fairy chairs that the servants have forgotten to clear away .
The chairs and the rings are the only tell-tale marks these little people leave behind them , and they would remove even these were they not so fond of dancing that they toe it till the very moment of the opening of the gates .
David and I once found a fairy ring quite warm .
But there is also a way of finding out about the ball before it takes place .
You know the boards which tell at what time the Gardens are to close to-day .
Well , these tricky fairies sometimes slyly change the board on a ball night , so that it says the Gardens are to close at six-thirty , for instance , instead of at seven .
This enables them to get begun half an hour earlier .
If on such a night we could remain behind in the Gardens , as the famous Maimie Mannering did , we might see delicious sights ; hundreds of lovely fairies hastening to the ball , the married ones wearing their wedding rings round their waists ; the gentlemen , all in uniform , holding up the ladies ' trains , and linkmen running in front carrying winter cherries , which are the fairy-lanterns ; the cloakroom where they put on their silver slippers and get a ticket for their wraps ; the flowers streaming up from the Baby Walk to look on , and always welcome because they can lend a pin ; the supper-table , with Queen Mab at the head of it , and behind her chair the Lord Chamberlain , who carries a dandelion on which he blows when her Majesty wants to know the time .
-LSB- Illustration : Linkmen running in front carrying winter cherries -RSB- The table-cloth varies according to the seasons , and in May it is made of chestnut blossom .
The way the fairy servants do is this : The men , scores of them , climb up the trees and shake the branches , and the blossom falls like snow .
Then the lady servants sweep it together by whisking their skirts until it is exactly like a tablecloth , and that is how they get their tablecloth .
They have real glasses and real wine of three kinds , namely , blackthorn wine , berberris wine , and cowslip wine , and the Queen pours out , but the bottles are so heavy that she just pretends to pour out .
There is bread-and-butter to begin with , of the size of a threepenny bit ; and cakes to end with , and they are so small that they have no crumbs .
The fairies sit round on mushrooms , and at first they are well-behaved and always cough off the table , and so on , but after a bit they are not so well-behaved and stick their fingers into the butter , which is got from the roots of old trees , and the really horrid ones crawl over the tablecloth chasing sugar or other delicacies with their tongues .
When the Queen sees them doing this she signs to the servants to wash up and put away , and then everybody adjourns to the dance , the Queen walking in front while the Lord Chamberlain walks behind her , carrying two little pots , one of which contains the juice of wallflower and the other the juice of Solomon 's Seal .
Wallflower juice is good for reviving dancers who fall to the ground in a fit , and Solomon 's Seal juice is for bruises .
They bruise very easily , and when Peter plays faster and faster they foot it till they fall down in fits .
For , as you know without my telling you , Peter Pan is the fairies ' orchestra .
He sits in the middle of the ring , and they would never dream of having a smart dance nowadays without him .
` P. P. ' is written on the corner of the invitation-cards sent out by all really good families .
They are grateful little people , too , and at the princess 's coming-of-age ball -LRB- they come of age on their second birthday and have a birthday every month -RRB- they gave him the wish of his heart .
-LSB- Illustration : When her Majesty wants to know the time -RSB- The way it was done was this .
The Queen ordered him to kneel , and then said that for playing so beautifully she would give him the wish of his heart .
Then they all gathered round Peter to hear what was the wish of his heart , but for a long time he hesitated , not being certain what it was himself .
` If I chose to go back to mother , ' he asked at last , ` could you give me that wish ? '
Now this question vexed them , for were he to return to his mother they should lose his music , so the Queen tilted her nose contemptuously and said , ` Pooh !
ask for a much bigger wish than that . '
` Is that quite a little wish ? '
he inquired .
` As little as this , ' the Queen answered , putting her hands near each other .
` What size is a big wish ? '
he asked .
She measured it off on her skirt and it was a very handsome length .
Then Peter reflected and said , ` Well , then , I think I shall have two little wishes instead of one big one . '
Of course , the fairies had to agree , though his cleverness rather shocked them , and he said that his first wish was to go to his mother , but with the right to return to the Gardens if he found her disappointing .
His second wish he would hold in reserve .
They tried to dissuade him , and even put obstacles in the way . '
I can give you the power to fly to her house , ' the Queen said , ` but I ca n't open the door for you . '
` The window I flew out at will be open , ' Peter said confidently .
` Mother always keeps it open in the hope that I may fly back . '
` How do you know ? '
they asked , quite surprised , and , really , Peter could not explain how he knew . '
I just do know , ' he said .
So as he persisted in his wish , they had to grant it .
The way they gave him power to fly was this : They all tickled him on the shoulder , and soon he felt a funny itching in that part , and then up he rose higher and higher , and flew away out of the Gardens and over the housetops .
It was so delicious that instead of flying straight to his own home he skimmed away over St. Paul 's to the Crystal Palace and back by the river and Regent 's Park , and by the time he reached his mother 's window he had quite made up his mind that his second wish should be to become a bird .
The window was wide open , just as he knew it would be , and in he fluttered , and there was his mother lying asleep .
Peter alighted softly on the wooden rail at the foot of the bed and had a good look at her .
She lay with her head on her hand , and the hollow in the pillow was like a nest lined with her brown wavy hair .
He remembered , though he had long forgotten it , that she always gave her hair a holiday at night .
How sweet the frills of her nightgown were !
He was very glad she was such a pretty mother .
But she looked sad , and he knew why she looked sad .
One of her arms moved as if it wanted to go round something , and he knew what it wanted to go round . '
O mother ! '
said Peter to himself , ` if you just knew who is sitting on the rail at the foot of the bed . '
Very gently he patted the little mound that her feet made , and he could see by her face that she liked it .
He knew he had but to say ` Mother ' ever so softly , and she would wake up .
They always wake up at once if it is you that says their name .
Then she would give such a joyous cry and squeeze him tight .
How nice that would be to him , but oh !
how exquisitely delicious it would be to her .
That , I am afraid , is how Peter regarded it .
In returning to his mother he never doubted that he was giving her the greatest treat a woman can have .
Nothing can be more splendid , he thought , than to have a little boy of your own .
How proud of him they are !
and very right and proper , too .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairies sit round on mushrooms , and at first they are well behaved -RSB- But why does Peter sit so long on the rail ; why does he not tell his mother that he has come back ?
I quite shrink from the truth , which is that he sat there in two minds .
Sometimes he looked longingly at his mother , and sometimes he looked longingly at the window .
Certainly it would be pleasant to be her boy again , but on the other hand , what times those had been in the Gardens !
Was he so sure that he should enjoy wearing clothes again ?
He popped off the bed and opened some drawers to have a look at his old garments .
They were still there , but he could not remember how you put them on .
The socks , for instance , were they worn on the hands or on the feet ?
He was about to try one of them on his hand , when he had a great adventure .
Perhaps the drawer had creaked ; at any rate , his mother woke up , for he heard her say ` Peter , ' as if it was the most lovely word in the language .
He remained sitting on the floor and held his breath , wondering how she knew that he had come back .
If she said ` Peter ' again , he meant to cry ` Mother ' and run to her .
But she spoke no more , she made little moans only , and when he next peeped at her she was once more asleep , with tears on her face .
It made Peter very miserable , and what do you think was the first thing he did ?
Sitting on the rail at the foot of the bed , he played a beautiful lullaby to his mother on his pipe .
He had made it up himself out of the way she said ` Peter , ' and he never stopped playing until she looked happy .
He thought this so clever of him that he could scarcely resist wakening her to hear her say , ' O Peter , how exquisitely you play ! '
However , as she now seemed comfortable , he again cast looks at the window .
You must not think that he meditated flying away and never coming back .
He had quite decided to be his mother 's boy , but hesitated about beginning to-night .
It was the second wish which troubled him .
He no longer meant to make it a wish to be a bird , but not to ask for a second wish seemed wasteful , and , of course , he could not ask for it without returning to the fairies .
Also , if he put off asking for his wish too long it might go bad .
He asked himself if he had not been hard-hearted to fly away without saying good-bye to Solomon . '
I should like awfully to sail in my boat just once more , ' he said wistfully to his sleeping mother .
He quite argued with her as if she could hear him .
` It would be so splendid to tell the birds of this adventure , ' he said coaxingly . '
I promise to come back , ' he said solemnly , and meant it , too .
-LSB- Illustration : Butter is got from the roots of old trees -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- And in the end , you know , he flew away .
Twice he came back from the window , wanting to kiss his mother , but he feared the delight of it might waken her , so at last he played her a lovely kiss on his pipe , and then he flew back to the Gardens .
Many nights , and even months , passed before he asked the fairies for his second wish ; and I am not sure that I quite know why he delayed so long .
One reason was that he had so many good-byes to say , not only to his particular friends , but to a hundred favourite spots .
Then he had his last sail , and his very last sail , and his last sail of all , and so on .
Again , a number of farewell feasts were given in his honour ; and another comfortable reason was that , after all , there was no hurry , for his mother would never weary of waiting for him .
This last reason displeased old Solomon , for it was an encouragement to the birds to procrastinate .
Solomon had several excellent mottoes for keeping them at their work , such as ` Never put off laying to-day because you can lay to-morrow , ' and ` In this world there are no second chances , ' and yet here was Peter gaily putting off and none the worse for it .
The birds pointed this out to each other , and fell into lazy habits .
But , mind you , though Peter was so slow in going back to his mother , he was quite decided to go back .
The best proof of this was his caution with the fairies .
They were most anxious that he should remain in the Gardens to play to them , and to bring this to pass they tried to trick him into making such a remark as ' I wish the grass was not so wet , ' and some of them danced out of time in the hope that he might cry , ' I do wish you would keep time ! '
Then they would have said that this was his second wish .
But he smoked their design , and though on occasions he began , ' I wish -- ' he always stopped in time .
So when at last he said to them bravely , ' I wish now to go back to mother for ever and always , ' they had to tickle his shoulders and let him go .
He went in a hurry in the end , because he had dreamt that his mother was crying , and he knew what was the great thing she cried for , and that a hug from her splendid Peter would quickly make her to smile .
Oh !
he felt sure of it , and so eager was he to be nestling in her arms that this time he flew straight to the window , which was always to be open for him .
-LSB- Illustration : Wallflower juice is good for reviving dancers who fall to the ground in a fit -RSB- But the window was closed , and there were iron bars on it , and peering inside he saw his mother sleeping peacefully with her arm round another little boy .
Peter called , ` Mother !
mother ! '
but she heard him not ; in vain he beat his little limbs against the iron bars .
He had to fly back , sobbing , to the Gardens , and he never saw his dear again .
What a glorious boy he had meant to be to her !
Ah , Peter !
we who have made the great mistake , how differently we should all act at the second chance .
But Solomon was right -- there is no second chance , not for most of us .
When we reach the window it is Lock-out Time .
The iron bars are up for life .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` Lock-out Time ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` The Little House ' -RSB- V THE LITTLE HOUSE Everybody has heard of the Little House in the Kensington Gardens , which is the only house in the whole world that the fairies have built for humans .
But no one has really seen it , except just three or four , and they have not only seen it but slept in it , and unless you sleep in it you never see it .
This is because it is not there when you lie down , but it is there when you wake up and step outside .
In a kind of way every one may see it , but what you see is not really it , but only the light in the windows .
You see the light after Lock-out Time .
David , for instance , saw it quite distinctly far away among the trees as we were going home from the pantomime , and Oliver Bailey saw it the night he stayed so late at the Temple , which is the name of his father 's office .
Angela Clare , who loves to have a tooth extracted because then she is treated to tea in a shop , saw more than one light , she saw hundreds of them all together ; and this must have been the fairies building the house , for they build it every night , and always in a different part of the Gardens .
She thought one of the lights was bigger than the others , though she was not quite sure , for they jumped about so , and it might have been another one that was bigger .
But if it was the same one , it was Peter Pan 's light .
Heaps of children have seen the light , so that is nothing .
But Maimie Mannering was the famous one for whom the house was first built .
Maimie was always rather a strange girl , and it was at night that she was strange .
She was four years of age , and in the daytime she was the ordinary kind .
She was pleased when her brother Tony , who was a magnificent fellow of six , took notice of her , and she looked up to him in the right way , and tried in vain to imitate him , and was flattered rather than annoyed when he shoved her about .
Also , when she was batting , she would pause though the ball was in the air to point out to you that she was wearing new shoes .
She was quite the ordinary kind in the daytime .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter Pan is the fairies ' orchestra -RSB- But as the shades of night fell , Tony , the swaggerer , lost his contempt for Maimie and eyed her fearfully ; and no wonder , for with dark there came into her face a look that I can describe only as a leary look .
It was also a serene look that contrasted grandly with Tony 's uneasy glances .
Then he would make her presents of his favourite toys -LRB- which he always took away from her next morning -RRB- , and she accepted them with a disturbing smile .
The reason he was now become so wheedling and she so mysterious was -LRB- in brief -RRB- that they knew they were about to be sent to bed .
It was then that Maimie was terrible .
Tony entreated her not to do it to-night , and the mother and their coloured nurse threatened her , but Maimie merely smiled her agitating smile .
And by and by when they were alone with their night-light she would start up in bed crying ` Hsh !
what was that ? '
Tony beseeches her , ` It was nothing -- do n't , Maimie , do n't ! '
and pulls the sheet over his head .
` It is coming nearer ! '
she cries .
` Oh , look at it , Tony !
It is feeling your bed with its horns -- it is boring for you , O Tony , oh ! '
and she desists not until he rushes downstairs in his combinations , screeching .
When they came up to whip Maimie they usually found her sleeping tranquilly -- not shamming , you know , but really sleeping , and looking like the sweetest little angel , which seems to me to make it almost worse .
But of course it was daytime when they were in the Gardens , and then Tony did most of the talking .
You could gather from his talk that he was a very brave boy , and no one was so proud of it as Maimie .
She would have loved to have a ticket on her saying that she was his sister .
And at no time did she admire him more than when he told her , as he often did with splendid firmness , that one day he meant to remain behind in the Gardens after the gates were closed . '
O Tony , ' she would say with awful respect , ` but the fairies will be so angry ! ' '
I dare say , ' replied Tony carelessly .
` Perhaps , ' she said , thrilling , ` Peter Pan will give you a sail in his boat ! ' '
I shall make him , ' replied Tony ; no wonder she was proud of him .
-LSB- Illustration : They all tickled him on the shoulder -LRB- missing from book -RRB- -RSB- But they should not have talked so loudly , for one day they were overheard by a fairy who had been gathering skeleton leaves , from which the little people weave their summer curtains , and after that Tony was a marked boy .
