Now that he had made them rich , they gave him every day all that a dog likes best to eat , and the cushions on which he lay were fit for a prince .
The story of the dog and his treasure soon became known , and a neighbour whose garden was next the old people 's grew so envious of their good luck that he could neither eat nor sleep .
As the dog had discovered a treasure once , this foolish man thought he must be able to discover one always , and begged the old couple to lend him their pet for a little while , so that he might be made rich also .
` How can you ask such a thing ? '
answered the old man indignantly .
` You know how much we love him , and that he is never out of our sight for five minutes . '
But the envious neighbour would not heed his words , and came daily with the same request , till at last the old people , who could not bear to say no to anyone , promised to lend the dog , just for a night or two .
No sooner did the man get hold of the dog than he turned him into the garden , but the dog did nothing but race about , and the man was forced to wait with what patience he could .
The next morning the man opened the house door , and the dog bounded joyfully into the garden , and , running up to the foot of a tree , began to scratch wildly .
The man called loudly to his wife to bring a spade , and followed the dog , as he longed to catch the first glimpse of the expected treasure .
But when he had dug up the ground , what did he find ?
Why , nothing but a parcel of old bones , which smelt so badly that he could not stay there a moment longer .
And his heart was filled with rage against the dog who had played him this trick , and he seized a pickaxe and killed it on the spot , before he knew what he was doing .
When he remembered that he would have to go with his story to the old man and his wife he was rather frightened , but there was nothing to be gained by putting it off , so he pulled a very long face and went to his neighbour 's garden .
` Your dog , ' said he , pretending to weep , ` has suddenly fallen down dead , though I took every care of him , and gave him everything he could wish for .
And I thought I had better come straight and tell you . '
Weeping bitterly , the old man went to fetch the body of his favourite , and brought it home and buried it under the fig-tree where he had found the treasure .
From morning till night he and his wife mourned over their loss , and nothing could comfort them .
At length , one night when he was asleep , he dreamt that the dog appeared to him and told him to cut down the fig-tree over his grave , and out of its wood to make a mortar .
But when the old man woke and thought of his dream he did not feel at all inclined to cut down the tree , which bore well every year , and consulted his wife about it .
The woman did not hesitate a moment , and said that after what had happened before , the dog 's advice must certainly be obeyed , so the tree was felled , and a beautiful mortar made from it .
And when the season came for the rice crop to be gathered the mortar was taken down from its shelf , and the grains placed in it for pounding , when , lo and behold !
in a twinkling of an eye , they all turned into gold pieces .
At the sight of all this gold the hearts of the old people were glad , and once more they blessed their faithful dog .
But it was not long before this story also came to the ears of their envious neighbour , and he lost no time in going to the old people and asking if they happened to have a mortar which they could lend him .
The old man did not at all like parting with his precious treasure , but he never could say no , so the neighbour went off with the mortar under his arm .
The moment he got into his own house he took a great handful of rice , and began to shell off the husks , with the help of his wife .
But , instead of the gold pieces for which they looked , the rice turned into berries with such a horrible smell that they were obliged to run away , after smashing the mortar in a rage and setting fire to the bits .
The old people next door were naturally very much put out when they learned the fate of their mortar , and were not at all comforted by the explanations and excuses made by their neighbour .
But that night the dog again appeared in a dream to his master , and told him that he must go and collect the ashes of the burnt mortar and bring them home .
Then , when he heard that the Daimio , or great lord to whom this part of the country belonged , was expected at the capital , he was to carry the ashes to the high road , through which the procession would have to pass .
And as soon as it was in sight he was to climb up all the cherry-trees and sprinkle the ashes on them , and they would soon blossom as they had never blossomed before .
This time the old man did not wait to consult his wife as to whether he was to do what his dog had told him , but directly he got up he went to his neighbour 's house and collected the ashes of the burnt mortar .
He put them carefully in a china vase , and carried it to the high road , Sitting down on a seat till the Daimio should pass .
The cherry-trees were bare , for it was the season when small pots of them were sold to rich people , who kept them in hot places , so that they might blossom early and decorate their rooms .
As to the trees in the open air , no one would ever think of looking for the tiniest bud for more than a month yet .
The old man had not been waiting very long before he saw a cloud of dust in the far distance , and knew that it must be the procession of the Daimio .
On they came , every man dressed in his finest clothes , and the crowd that was lining the road bowed their faces to the ground as they went by .
Only the old man did not bow himself , and the great lord saw this , and bade one of his courtiers , in anger , go and inquire why he had disobeyed the ancient customs .
But before the messenger could reach him the old man had climbed the nearest tree and scattered his ashes far and wide , and in an instant the white flowers had flashed into life , and the heart of the Daimio rejoiced , and he gave rich presents to the old man , whom he sent for to his castle .
We may be sure that in a very little while the envious neighbour had heard this also , and his bosom was filled with hate .
He hastened to the place where he had burned the mortar , collected a few of the ashes which the old man had left behind , and took them to the road , hoping that his luck might be as good as the old man 's , or perhaps even better .
His heart beat with pleasure when he caught the first glimpses of the Daimio 's train , and he held himself ready for the right moment .
As the Daimio drew near he flung a great handful of ashes over the trees , but no buds or flowers followed the action : instead , the ashes were all blown back into the eyes of the Daimio and his warriors , till they cried out from pain .
Then the prince ordered the evil-doer to be seized and bound and thrown into prison , where he was kept for many months .
By the time he was set free everybody in his native village had found out his wickedness , and they would not let him live there any longer ; and as he would not leave off his evil ways he soon went from bad to worse , and came to a miserable end .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FAIRY OF THE DAWN Once upon a time what should happen DID happen ; and if it had not happened this tale would never have been told .
There was once an emperor , very great and mighty , and he ruled over an empire so large that no one knew where it began and where it ended .
But if nobody could tell the exact extent of his sovereignty everybody was aware that the emperor 's right eye laughed , while his left eye wept .
One or two men of valour had the courage to go and ask him the reason of this strange fact , but he only laughed and said nothing ; and the reason of the deadly enmity between his two eyes was a secret only known to the monarch himself .
And all the while the emperor 's sons were growing up .
And such sons !
All three like the morning stars in the sky !
Florea , the eldest , was so tall and broad-shouldered that no man in the kingdom could approach him .
Costan , the second , was quite different .
Small of stature , and slightly built , he had a strong arm and stronger wrist .
Petru , the third and youngest , was tall and thin , more like a girl than a boy .
He spoke very little , but laughed and sang , sang and laughed , from morning till night .
He was very seldom serious , but then he had a way when he was thinking of stroking his hair over his forehead , which made him look old enough to sit in his father 's council !
` You are grown up , Florea , ' said Petru one day to his eldest brother ; ` do go and ask father why one eye laughs and the other weeps . '
But Florea would not go .
He had learnt by experience that this question always put the emperor in a rage .
Petru next went to Costan , but did not succeed any better with him .
` Well , well , as everyone else is afraid , I suppose I must do it myself , ' observed Petru at length .
No sooner said than done ; the boy went straight to his father and put his question .
` May you go blind ! '
exclaimed the emperor in wrath ; ` what business is it of yours ? '
and boxed Petru 's ears soundly .
Petru returned to his brothers , and told them what had befallen him ; but not long after it struck him that his father 's left eye seemed to weep less , and the right to laugh more . '
I wonder if it has anything to do with my question , ' thought he .
` I 'll try again !
After all , what do two boxes on the ear matter ? '
So he put his question for the second time , and had the same answer ; but the left eye only wept now and then , while the right eye looked ten years younger .
` It really MUST be true , ' thought Petru .
` Now I know what I have to do .
I shall have to go on putting that question , and getting boxes on the ear , till both eyes laugh together . '
No sooner said than done .
Petru never , never forswore himself .
` Petru , my dear boy , ' cried the emperor , both his eyes laughing together , ' I see you have got this on the brain .
Well , I will let you into the secret .
My right eye laughs when I look at my three sons , and see how strong and handsome you all are , and the other eye weeps because I fear that after I die you will not be able to keep the empire together , and to protect it from its enemies .
But if you can bring me water from the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn , to bathe my eyes , then they will laugh for evermore ; for I shall know that my sons are brave enough to overcome any foe . '
Thus spoke the emperor , and Petru picked up his hat and went to find his brothers .
The three young men took counsel together , and talked the subject well over , as brothers should do .
And the end of it was that Florea , as the eldest , went to the stables , chose the best and handsomest horse they contained , saddled him , and took leave of the court . '
I am starting at once , ' said he to his brothers , ` and if after a year , a month , a week , and a day I have not returned with the water from the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn , you , Costan , had better come after me . '
So saying he disappeared round a corner of the palace .
For three days and three nights he never drew rein .
Like a spirit the horse flew over mountains and valleys till he came to the borders of the empire .
Here was a deep , deep trench that girdled it the whole way round , and there was only a single bridge by which the trench could be crossed .
Florea made instantly for the bridge , and there pulled up to look around him once more , to take leave of his native land Then he turned , but before him was standing a dragon -- oh !
SUCH a dragon !
-- a dragon with three heads and three horrible faces , all with their mouths wide open , one jaw reaching to heaven and the other to earth .
At this awful sight Florea did not wait to give battle .
He put spurs to his horse and dashed off , WHERE he neither knew nor cared .
The dragon heaved a sigh and vanished without leaving a trace behind him .
A week went by .
Florea did not return home .
Two passed ; and nothing was heard of him .
After a month Costan began to haunt the stables and to look out a horse for himself .
And the moment the year , the month , the week , and the day were over Costan mounted his horse and took leave of his youngest brother .
` If I fail , then you come , ' said he , and followed the path that Florea had taken .
The dragon on the bridge was more fearful and his three heads more terrible than before , and the young hero rode away still faster than his brother had done .
Nothing more was heard either of him or Florea ; and Petru remained alone . '
I must go after my brothers , ' said Petru one day to his father .
` Go , then , ' said his father , ` and may you have better luck than they ' ; and he bade farewell to Petru , who rode straight to the borders of the kingdom .
The dragon on the bridge was yet more dreadful than the one Florea and Costan had seen , for this one had seven heads instead of only three .
Petru stopped for a moment when he caught sight of this terrible creature .
Then he found his voice .
` Get out of the way ! '
cried he .
` Get out of the way ! '
he repeated again , as the dragon did not move .
` Get out of the way ! '
and with this last summons he drew his sword and rushed upon him .
In an instant the heavens seemed to darken round him and he was surrounded by fire -- fire to right of him , fire to left of him , fire to front of him , fire to rear of him ; nothing but fire whichever way he looked , for the dragon 's seven heads were vomiting flame .
The horse neighed and reared at the horrible sight , and Petru could not use the sword he had in readiness .
` Be quiet !
this wo n't do ! '
he said , dismounting hastily , but holding the bridle firmly in his left hand and grasping his sword in his right .
But even so he got on no better , for he could see nothing but fire and smoke .
` There is no help for it ; I must go back and get a better horse , ' said he , and mounted again and rode homewards .
At the gate of the palace his nurse , old Birscha , was waiting for him eagerly .
` Ah , Petru , my son , I knew you would have to come back , ' she cried .
` You did not set about the matter properly . '
` How ought I to have set about it ? '
asked Petru , half angrily , half sadly .
` Look here , my boy , ' replied old Birscha .
` You can never reach the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn unless you ride the horse which your father , the emperor , rode in his youth .
Go and ask where it is to be found , and then mount it and be off with you . '
Petru thanked her heartily for her advice , and went at once to make inquiries about the horse .
` By the light of my eyes ! '
exclaimed the emperor when Petru had put his question .
` Who has told you anything about that ?
It must have been that old witch of a Birscha ?
Have you lost your wits ?
Fifty years have passed since I was young , and who knows where the bones of my horse may be rotting , or whether a scrap of his reins still lie in his stall ?
I have forgotten all about him long ago . '
Petru turned away in anger , and went back to his old nurse .
` Do not be cast down , ' she said with a smile ; ` if that is how the affair stands all will go well .
Go and fetch the scrap of the reins ; I shall soon know what must be done . '
The place was full of saddles , bridles , and bits of leather .
Petru picked out the oldest , and blackest , and most decayed pair of reins , and brought them to the old woman , who murmured something over them and sprinkled them with incense , and held them out to the young man .
` Take the reins , ' said she , ` and strike them violently against the pillars of the house . '
Petru did what he was told , and scarcely had the reins touched the pillars when something happened -- HOW I have no idea -- that made Petru stare with surprise .
A horse stood before him -- a horse whose equal in beauty the world had never seen ; with a saddle on him of gold and precious stones , and with such a dazzling bridle you hardly dared to look at it , lest you should lose your sight .
A splendid horse , a splendid saddle , and a splendid bridle , all ready for the splendid young prince !
` Jump on the back of the brown horse , ' said the old woman , and she turned round and went into the house .
The moment Petru was seated on the horse he felt his arm three times as strong as before , and even his heart felt braver .
` Sit firmly in the saddle , my lord , for we have a long way to go and no time to waste , ' said the brown horse , and Petru soon saw that they were riding as no man and horse had ever ridden before .
On the bridge stood a dragon , but not the same one as he had tried to fight with , for this dragon had twelve heads , each more hideous and shooting forth more terrible flames than the other .
But , horrible though he was , he had met his match .
Petru showed no fear , but rolled up his sleeves , that his arms might be free .
` Get out of the way ! '
he said when he had done , but the dragon 's heads only breathed forth more flames and smoke .
Petru wasted no more words , but drew his sword and prepared to throw himself on the bridge .
` Stop a moment ; be careful , my lord , ' put in the horse , ` and be sure you do what I tell you .
Dig your spurs in my body up to the rowel , draw your sword , and keep yourself ready , for we shall have to leap over both bridge and dragon .
When you see that we are right above the dragon cut off his biggest head , wipe the blood off the sword , and put it back clean in the sheath before we touch earth again . '
So Petru dug in his spurs , drew his sword , cut of the head , wiped the blood , and put the sword back in the sheath before the horse 's hoofs touched the ground again .
And in this fashion they passed the bridge .
` But we have got to go further still , ' said Petru , after he had taken a farewell glance at his native land .
` Yes , forwards , ' answered the horse ; ` but you must tell me , my lord , at what speed you wish to go .
Like the wind ?
Like thought ?
Like desire ?
or like a curse ? '
Petru looked about him , up at the heavens and down again to the earth .
A desert lay spread out before him , whose aspect made his hair stand on end .
` We will ride at different speeds , ' said he , ` not so fast as to grow tired nor so slow as to waste time . '
And so they rode , one day like the wind , the next like thought , the third and fourth like desire and like a curse , till they reached the borders of the desert .
` Now walk , so that I may look about , and see what I have never seen before , ' said Petru , rubbing his eyes like one who wakes from sleep , or like him who beholds something so strange that it seems as if ... Before Petru lay a wood made of copper , with copper trees and copper leaves , with bushes and flowers of copper also .
Petru stood and stared as a man does when he sees something that he has never seen , and of which he has never heard .
Then he rode right into the wood .
On each side of the way the rows of flowers began to praise Petru , and to try and persuade him to pick some of them and make himself a wreath .
` Take me , for I am lovely , and can give strength to whoever plucks me , ' said one .
` No , take me , for whoever wears me in his hat will be loved by the most beautiful woman in the world , ' pleaded the second ; and then one after another bestirred itself , each more charming than the last , all promising , in soft sweet voices , wonderful things to Petru , if only he would pick them .
Petru was not deaf to their persuasion , and was just stooping to pick one when the horse sprang to one side .
` Why do n't you stay still ? '
asked Petru roughly .
` Do not pick the flowers ; it will bring you bad luck ; answered the horse .
` Why should it do that ? '
` These flowers are under a curse .
Whoever plucks them must fight the Welwa -LRB- 1 -RRB- of the woods . '
-LRB- 1 -RRB- A goblin .
` What kind of a goblin is the Welwa ? '
` Oh , do leave me in peace !
But listen .
Look at the flowers as much as you like , but pick none , ' and the horse walked on slowly .
Petru knew by experience that he would do well to attend to the horse 's advice , so he made a great effort and tore his mind away from the flowers .
But in vain !
If a man is fated to be unlucky , unlucky he will be , whatever he may do !
The flowers went on beseeching him , and his heart grew ever weaker and weaker .
` What must come will come , ' said Petru at length ; ` at any rate I shall see the Welwa of the woods , what she is like , and which way I had best fight her .
If she is ordained to be the cause of my death , well , then it will be so ; but if not I shall conquer her though she were twelve hundred Welwas , ' and once more he stooped down to gather the flowers .
` You have done very wrong , ' said the horse sadly .
` But it ca n't be helped now .
Get yourself ready for battle , for here is the Welwa ! '
Hardly had he done speaking , scarcely had Petru twisted his wreath , when a soft breeze arose on all sides at once .
Out of the breeze came a storm wind , and the storm wind swelled and swelled till everything around was blotted out in darkness , and darkness covered them as with a thick cloak , while the earth swayed and shook under their feet .
` Are you afraid ? '
asked the horse , shaking his mane .
` Not yet , ' replied Petru stoutly , though cold shivers were running down his back .
` What must come will come , whatever it is . '
` Do n't be afraid , ' said the horse . '
I will help you .
Take the bridle from my neck , and try to catch the Welwa with it . '
The words were hardly spoken , and Petru had no time even to unbuckle the bridle , when the Welwa herself stood before him ; and Petru could not bear to look at her , so horrible was she .
She had not exactly a head , yet neither was she without one .
She did not fly through the air , but neither did she walk upon the earth .
She had a mane like a horse , horns like a deer , a face like a bear , eyes like a polecat ; while her body had something of each .
And that was the Welwa .
Petru planted himself firmly in his stirrups , and began to lay about him with his sword , but could feel nothing .
A day and a night went by , and the fight was still undecided , but at last the Welwa began to pant for breath .
` Let us wait a little and rest , ' gasped she .
Petru stopped and lowered his sword .
` You must not stop an instant , ' said the horse , and Petru gathered up all his strength , and laid about him harder than ever .
The Welwa gave a neigh like a horse and a howl like a wolf , and threw herself afresh on Petru .
For another day and night the battle raged more furiously than before .
And Petru grew so exhausted he could scarcely move his arm .
` Let us wait a little and rest , ' cried the Welwa for the second time , ` for I see you are as weary as I am . '
` You must not stop an instant , ' said the horse .
And Petru went on fighting , though he barely had strength to move his arm .
But the Welwa had ceased to throw herself upon him , and began to deliver her blows cautiously , as if she had no longer power to strike .
And on the third day they were still fighting , but as the morning sky began to redden Petru somehow managed -- how I can not tell -- to throw the bridle over the head of the tired Welwa .
In a moment , from the Welwa sprang a horse -- the most beautiful horse in the world .
` Sweet be your life , for you have delivered me from my enchantment , ' said he , and began to rub his nose against his brother 's .
And he told Petru all his story , and how he had been bewitched for many years .
So Petru tied the Welwa to his own horse and rode on .
Where did he ride ?
That I can not tell you , but he rode on fast till he got out of the copper wood .
` Stay still , and let me look about , and see what I never have seen before , ' said Petru again to his horse .
For in front of him stretched a forest that was far more wonderful , as it was made of glistening trees and shining flowers .
It was the silver wood .
As before , the flowers began to beg the young man to gather them .
` Do not pluck them , ' warned the Welwa , trotting beside him , ` for my brother is seven times stronger than I ' ; but though Petru knew by experience what this meant , it was no use , and after a moment 's hesitation he began to gather the flowers , and to twist himself a wreath .
Then the storm wind howled louder , the earth trembled more violently , and the night grew darker , than the first time , and the Welwa of the silver wood came rushing on with seven times the speed of the other .
For three days and three nights they fought , but at last Petru cast the bridle over the head of the second Welwa .
` Sweet be your life , for you have delivered me from enchantment , ' said the second Welwa , and they all journeyed on as before .
But soon they came to a gold wood more lovely far than the other two , and again Petru 's companions pleaded with him to ride through it quickly , and to leave the flowers alone .
But Petru turned a deaf ear to all they said , and before he had woven his golden crown he felt that something terrible , that he could not see , was coming near him right out of the earth .
He drew his sword and made himself ready for the fight . '
I will die ! '
cried he , ` or he shall have my bridle over his head . '
He had hardly said the words when a thick fog wrapped itself around him , and so thick was it that he could not see his own hand , or hear the sound of his voice .
For a day and a night he fought with his sword , without ever once seeing his enemy , then suddenly the fog began to lighten .
By dawn of the second day it had vanished altogether , and the sun shone brightly in the heavens .
It seemed to Petru that he had been born again .
And the Welwa ?
She had vanished .
` You had better take breath now you can , for the fight will have to begin all over again , ' said the horse .
` What was it ? '
asked Petru .
` It was the Welwa , ' replied the horse , ` changed into a fog ` Listen !
She is coming ! '
And Petru had hardly drawn a long breath when he felt something approaching from the side , though what he could not tell .
A river , yet not a river , for it seemed not to flow over the earth , but to go where it liked , and to leave no trace of its passage .
` Woe be to me ! '
cried Petru , frightened at last .
` Beware , and never stand still , ' called the brown horse , and more he could not say , for the water was choking him .
The battle began anew .
For a day and a night Petru fought on , without knowing at whom or what he struck .
At dawn on the second , he felt that both his feet were lame .
` Now I am done for , ' thought he , and his blows fell thicker and harder in his desperation .
And the sun came out and the water disappeared , without his knowing how or when .
` Take breath , ' said the horse , ` for you have no time to lose .
The Welwa will return in a moment . '
Petru made no reply , only wondered how , exhausted as he was , he should ever be able to carry on the fight .
But he settled himself in his saddle , grasped his sword , and waited .
And then something came to him -- WHAT I can not tell you .
Perhaps , in his dreams , a man may see a creature which has what it has not got , and has not got what it has .
At least , that was what the Welwa seemed like to Petru .
She flew with her feet , and walked with her wings ; her head was in her back , and her tail was on top of her body ; her eyes were in her neck , and her neck in her forehead , and how to describe her further I do not know .
Petru felt for a moment as if he was wrapped in a garment of fear ; then he shook himself and took heart , and fought as he had never yet fought before .
As the day wore on , his strength began to fail , and when darkness fell he could hardly keep his eyes open .
By midnight he knew he was no longer on his horse , but standing on the ground , though he could not have told how he got there .
When the grey light of morning came , he was past standing on his feet , but fought now upon his knees .
` Make one more struggle ; it is nearly over now , ' said the horse , seeing that Petru 's strength was waning fast .
Petru wiped the sweat from his brow with his gauntlet , and with a desperate effort rose to his feet .
` Strike the Welwa on the mouth with the bridle , ' said the horse , and Petru did it .
The Welwa uttered a neigh so loud that Petru thought he would be deaf for life , and then , though she too was nearly spent , flung herself upon her enemy ; but Petru was on the watch and threw the bridle over her head , as she rushed on , so that when the day broke there were three horses trotting beside him .
` May your wife be the most beautiful of women , ' said the Welwa , ` for you have delivered me from my enchantment . '
So the four horses galloped fast , and by nightfall they were at the borders of the golden forest .
Then Petru began to think of the crowns that he wore , and what they had cost him .
` After all , what do I want with so many ?
I will keep the best , ' he said to himself ; and taking off first the copper crown and then the silver , he threw them away .
` Stay ! '
cried the horse , ` do not throw them away !
Perhaps we shall find them of use .
Get down and pick them up . '
So Petru got down and picked them up , and they all went on .
In the evening , when the sun is getting low , and all the midges are beginning to bite , Peter saw a wide heath stretching before him .
At the same instant the horse stood still of itself .
` What is the matter ? '
asked Petru . '
I am afraid that something evil will happen to us , ' answered the horse .
` But why should it ? '
` We are going to enter the kingdom of the goddess Mittwoch , -LRB- 2 -RRB- and the further we ride into it the colder we shall get .
But all along the road there are huge fires , and I dread lest you should stop and warm yourself at them . '
-LRB- 2 -RRB- In German ` Mittwoch , ' the feminine form of Mercury .
` And why should I not warm myself ? '
` Something fearful will happen to you if you do , ' replied the horse sadly .
` Well , forward ! '
cried Petru lightly , ` and if I have to bear cold , I must bear it ! '
With every step they went into the kingdom of Mittwoch , the air grew colder and more icy , till even the marrow in their bones was frozen .
But Petru was no coward ; the fight he had gone through had strengthened his powers of endurance , and he stood the test bravely .
Along the road on each side were great fires , with men standing by them , who spoke pleasantly to Petru as he went by , and invited him to join them .
The breath froze in his mouth , but he took no notice , only bade his horse ride on the faster .
How long Petru may have waged battle silently with the cold one can not tell , for everybody knows that the kingdom of Mittwoch is not to be crossed in a day , but he struggled on , though the frozen rocks burst around , and though his teeth chattered , and even his eyelids were frozen .
At length they reached the dwelling of Mittwoch herself , and , jumping from his horse , Petru threw the reins over his horse 's neck and entered the hut .
` Good-day , little mother ! '
said he .
` Very well , thank you , my frozen friend ! '
Petru laughed , and waited for her to speak .
` You have borne yourself bravely , ' went on the goddess , tapping him on the shoulder .
` Now you shall have your reward , ' and she opened an iron chest , out of which she took a little box .
` Look ! '
said she ; ` this little box has been lying here for ages , waiting for the man who could win his way through the Ice Kingdom .
Take it , and treasure it , for some day it may help you .
If you open it , it will tell you anything you want , and give you news of your fatherland . '
Petru thanked her gratefully for her gift , mounted his horse , and rode away .
When he was some distance from the hut , he opened the casket .
` What are your commands ? '
asked a voice inside .
` Give me news of my father , ' he replied , rather nervously .
` He is sitting in council with his nobles , ' answered the casket .
` Is he well ? '
` Not particularly , for he is furiously angry . '
` What has angered him ? '
` Your brothers Costan and Florea , ' replied the casket .
` It seems to me they are trying to rule him and the kingdom as well , and the old man says they are not fit to do it . '
` Push on , good horse , for we have no time to lose ! '
cried Petru ; then he shut up the box , and put it in his pocket .
They rushed on as fast as ghosts , as whirlwinds , as vampires when they hunt at midnight , and how long they rode no man can tell , for the way is far .
` Stop !
I have some advice to give you , ' said the horse at last .
` What is it ? '
asked Petru .
` You have known what it is to suffer cold ; you will have to endure heat , such as you have never dreamed of .
Be as brave now as you were then .
Let no one tempt you to try to cool yourself , or evil will befall you . '
` Forwards ! '
answered Petru .
` Do not worry yourself .
If I have escaped without being frozen , there is no chance of my melting . '
` Why not ?
This is a heat that will melt the marrow in your bones -- a heat that is only to be felt in the kingdom of the Goddess of Thunder . '
-LRB- 3 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- In the German ` Donnerstag ' -- the day of the Thunder God , i.e. Jupiter .
And it WAS hot .
The very iron of the horse 's shoes began to melt , but Petru gave no heed .
The sweat ran down his face , but he dried it with his gauntlet .
What heat could be he never knew before , and on the way , not a stone 's throw from the road , lay the most delicious valleys , full of shady trees and bubbling streams .
When Petru looked at them his heart burned within him , and his mouth grew parched .
And standing among the flowers were lovely maidens who called to him in soft voices , till he had to shut his eyes against their spells .
` Come , my hero , come and rest ; the heat will kill you , ' said they .
Petru shook his head and said nothing , for he had lost the power of speech .
Long he rode in this awful state , how long none can tell .
Suddenly the heat seemed to become less , and , in the distance , he saw a little hut on a hill .
This was the dwelling of the Goddess of Thunder , and when he drew rein at her door the goddess herself came out to meet him .
She welcomed him , and kindly invited him in , and bade him tell her all his adventures .
So Petru told her all that had happened to him , and why he was there , and then took farewell of her , as he had no time to lose .
` For , ' he said , ` who knows how far the Fairy of the Dawn may yet be ? '
` Stay for one moment , for I have a word of advice to give you .
You are about to enter the kingdom of Venus ; -LRB- 4 -RRB- go and tell her , as a message from me , that I hope she will not tempt you to delay .
On your way back , come to me again , and I will give you something that may be of use to you . '
-LRB- 4 -RRB- ` Vineri ' is Friday , and also ` Venus . '
So Petru mounted his horse , and had hardly ridden three steps when he found himself in a new country .
Here it was neither hot nor cold , but the air was warm and soft like spring , though the way ran through a heath covered with sand and thistles .
` What can that be ? '
asked Petru , when he saw a long , long way off , at the very end of the heath , something resembling a house .
` That is the house of the goddess Venus , ' replied the horse , ` and if we ride hard we may reach it before dark ' ; and he darted off like an arrow , so that as twilight fell they found themselves nearing the house .
Petru 's heart leaped at the sight , for all the way along he had been followed by a crowd of shadowy figures who danced about him from right to left , and from back to front , and Petru , though a brave man , felt now and then a thrill of fear .
` They wo n't hurt you , ' said the horse ; ` they are just the daughters of the whirlwind amusing themselves while they are waiting for the ogre of the moon . '
Then he stopped in front of the house , and Petru jumped off and went to the door .
` Do not be in such a hurry , ' cried the horse .
` There are several things I must tell you first .
You can not enter the house of the goddess Venus like that .
She is always watched and guarded by the whirlwind . '
` What am I to do then ? '
` Take the copper wreath , and go with it to that little hill over there .
When you reach it , say to yourself , `` Were there ever such lovely maidens !
such angels !
such fairy souls ! ''
Then hold the wreath high in the air and cry , `` Oh !
if I knew whether any one would accept this wreath from me ... if I knew !
if I knew ! ''
and throw the wreath from you ! '
` And why should I do all this ? '
said Petru .
` Ask no questions , but go and do it , ' replied the horse .
And Petru did .
Scarcely had he flung away the copper wreath than the whirlwind flung himself upon it , and tore it in pieces .
Then Petru turned once more to the horse .
` Stop ! '
cried the horse again . '
I have other things to tell you .
Take the silver wreath and knock at the windows of the goddess Venus .
When she says , `` Who is there ? ''
answer that you have come on foot and lost your way on the heath .
She will then tell you to go your way back again ; but take care not to stir from the spot .
Instead , be sure you say to her , `` No , indeed I shall do nothing of the sort , as from my childhood I have heard stories of the beauty of the goddess Venus , and it was not for nothing that I had shoes made of leather with soles of steel , and have travelled for nine years and nine months , and have won in battle the silver wreath , which I hope you may allow me to give you , and have done and suffered everything to be where I now am . ''
This is what you must say .
What happens after is your affair . '
Petru asked no more , but went towards the house .
By this time it was pitch dark , and there was only the ray of light that streamed through the windows to guide him , and at the sound of his footsteps two dogs began to bark loudly .
` Which of those dogs is barking ?
Is he tired of life ? '
asked the goddess Venus .
` It is I , O goddess ! '
replied Petru , rather timidly . '
I have lost my way on the heath , and do not know where I am to sleep this night . '
` Where did you leave your horse ? '
asked the goddess sharply .
Petru did not answer .
He was not sure if he was to lie , or whether he had better tell the truth .
` Go away , my son , there is no place for you here , ' replied she , drawing back from the window .
Then Petru repeated hastily what the horse had told him to say , and no sooner had he done so than the goddess opened the window , and in gentle tones she asked him : ` Let me see this wreath , my son , ' and Petru held it out to her .
` Come into the house , ' went on the goddess ; ` do not fear the dogs , they always know my will . '
And so they did , for as the young man passed they wagged their tails to him .
` Good evening , ' said Petru as he entered the house , and , seating himself near the fire , listened comfortably to whatever the goddess might choose to talk about , which was for the most part the wickedness of men , with whom she was evidently very angry .
But Petru agreed with her in everything , as he had been taught was only polite .
But was anybody ever so old as she !
I do not know why Petru devoured her so with his eyes , unless it was to count the wrinkles on her face ; but if so he would have had to live seven lives , and each life seven times the length of an ordinary one , before he could have reckoned them up .
But Venus was joyful in her heart when she saw Petru 's eyes fixed upon her .
` Nothing was that is , and the world was not a world when I was born , ' said she .
` When I grew up and the world came into being , everyone thought I was the most beautiful girl that ever was seen , though many hated me for it .
But every hundred years there came a wrinkle on my face .
And now I am old . '
Then she went on to tell Petru that she was the daughter of an emperor , and their nearest neighbour was the Fairy of the Dawn , with whom she had a violent quarrel , and with that she broke out into loud abuse of her .
Petru did not know what to do .
He listened in silence for the most part , but now and then he would say , ` Yes , yes , you must have been badly treated , ' just for politeness ' sake ; what more could he do ? '
I will give you a task to perform , for you are brave , and will carry it through , ' continued Venus , when she had talked a long time , and both of them were getting sleepy .
` Close to the Fairy 's house is a well , and whoever drinks from it will blossom again like a rose .
Bring me a flagon of it , and I will do anything to prove my gratitude .
It is not easy !
no one knows that better than I do !
The kingdom is guarded on every side by wild beasts and horrible dragons ; but I will tell you more about that , and I also have something to give you . '
Then she rose and lifted the lid of an iron-bound chest , and took out of it a very tiny flute .
` Do you see this ? '
she asked .
` An old man gave it to me when I was young : whoever listens to this flute goes to sleep , and nothing can wake him .
Take it and play on it as long as you remain in the kingdom of the Fairy of the Dawn , and you will be safe .
At this , Petru told her that he had another task to fulfil at the well of the Fairy of the Dawn , and Venus was still better pleased when she heard his tale .
So Petru bade her good-night , put the flute in its case , and laid himself down in the lowest chamber to sleep .
Before the dawn he was awake again , and his first care was to give to each of his horses as much corn as he could eat , and then to lead them to the well to water .
Then he dressed himself and made ready to start .
` Stop , ' cried Venus from her window , ' I have still a piece of advice to give you .
Leave one of your horses here , and only take three .
Ride slowly till you get to the fairy 's kingdom , then dismount and go on foot .
When you return , see that all your three horses remain on the road , while you walk .
But above all beware never to look the Fairy of the Dawn in the face , for she has eyes that will bewitch you , and glances that will befool you .
She is hideous , more hideous than anything you can imagine , with owl 's eyes , foxy face , and cat 's claws .
Do you hear ?
do you hear ?
Be sure you never look at her . '
Petru thanked her , and managed to get off at last .
Far , far away , where the heavens touch the earth , where the stars kiss the flowers , a soft red light was seen , such as the sky sometimes has in spring , only lovelier , more wonderful .
That light was behind the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn , and it took Petru two days and nights through flowery meadows to reach it .
And besides , it was neither hot nor cold , bright nor dark , but something of them all , and Petru did not find the way a step too long .
After some time Petru saw something white rise up out of the red of the sky , and when he drew nearer he saw it was a castle , and so splendid that his eyes were dazzled when they looked at it .
He did not know there was such a beautiful castle in the world .
But no time was to be lost , so he shook himself , jumped down from his horse , and , leaving him on the dewy grass , began to play on his flute as he walked along .
He had hardly gone many steps when he stumbled over a huge giant , who had been lulled to sleep by the music .
This was one of the guards of the castle !
As he lay there on his back , he seemed so big that in spite of Petru 's haste he stopped to measure him .
The further went Petru , the more strange and terrible were the sights he saw -- lions , tigers , dragons with seven heads , all stretched out in the sun fast asleep .
It is needless to say what the dragons were like , for nowadays everyone knows , and dragons are not things to joke about .
Petru ran through them like the wind .
Was it haste or fear that spurred him on ?
At last he came to a river , but let nobody think for a moment that this river was like other rivers ?
Instead of water , there flowed milk , and the bottom was of precious stones and pearls , instead of sand and pebbles .
And it ran neither fast nor slow , but both fast and slow together .
And the river flowed round the castle , and on its banks slept lions with iron teeth and claws ; and beyond were gardens such as only the Fairy of the Dawn can have , and on the flowers slept a fairy !
All this saw Petru from the other side .
But how was he to get over ?
To be sure there was a bridge , but , even if it had not been guarded by sleeping lions , it was plainly not meant for man to walk on .
Who could tell what it was made of ?
It looked like soft little woolly clouds !
So he stood thinking what was to be done , for get across he must .
After a while , he determined to take the risk , and strode back to the sleeping giant .
` Wake up , my brave man ! '
he cried , giving him a shake .
The giant woke and stretched out his hand to pick up Petru , just as we should catch a fly .
But Petru played on his flute , and the giant fell back again .
Petru tried this three times , and when he was satisfied that the giant was really in his power he took out a handkerchief , bound the two little fingers of the giant together , drew his sword , and cried for the fourth time , ` Wake up , my brave man . '
When the giant saw the trick which had been played on him he said to Petru .
` Do you call this a fair fight ?
Fight according to rules , if you really are a hero ! ' '
I will by-and-by , but first I want to ask you a question !
Will you swear that you will carry me over the river if I fight honourably with you ? '
And the giant swore .
When his hands were freed , the giant flung himself upon Petru , hoping to crush him by his weight .
But he had met his match .
It was not yesterday , nor the day before , that Petru had fought his first battle , and he bore himself bravely .
For three days and three nights the battle raged , and sometimes one had the upper hand , and sometimes the other , till at length they both lay struggling on the ground , but Petru was on top , with the point of his sword at the giant 's throat .
` Let me go !
let me go ! '
shrieked he . '
I own that I am beaten ! '
` Will you take me over the river ? '
asked Petru . '
I will , ' gasped the giant .
` What shall I do to you if you break your word ? '
` Kill me , any way you like !
But let me live now . '
` Very well , ' said Petru , and he bound the giant 's left hand to his right foot , tied one handkerchief round his mouth to prevent him crying out , and another round his eyes , and led him to the river .
Once they had reached the bank he stretched one leg over to the other side , and , catching up Petru in the palm of his hand , set him down on the further shore .
` That is all right , ' said Petru .
Then he played a few notes on his flute , and the giant went to sleep again .
Even the fairies who had been bathing a little lower down heard the music and fell asleep among the flowers on the bank .
Petru saw them as he passed , and thought , ` If they are so beautiful , why should the Fairy of the Dawn be so ugly ? '
But he dared not linger , and pushed on .
And now he was in the wonderful gardens , which seemed more wonderful still than they had done from afar .
But Petru could see no faded flowers , nor any birds , as he hastened through them to the castle .
No one was there to bar his way , for all were asleep .
Even the leaves had ceased to move .
He passed through the courtyard , and entered the castle itself .
What he beheld there need not be told , for all the world knows that the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn is no ordinary place .
Gold and precious stones were as common as wood with us , and the stables where the horses of the sun were kept were more splendid than the palace of the greatest emperor in the world .
Petru went up the stairs and walked quickly through eight-and-forty rooms , hung with silken stuffs , and all empty .
In the forty-ninth he found the Fairy of the Dawn herself .
In the middle of this room , which was as large as a church , Petru saw the celebrated well that he had come so far to seek .
It was a well just like other wells , and it seemed strange that the Fairy of the Dawn should have it in her own chamber ; yet anyone could tell it had been there for hundreds of years .
And by the well slept the Fairy of the Dawn -- the Fairy of the Dawn -- herself !
And as Petru looked at her the magic flute dropped by his side , and he held his breath .
Near the well was a table , on which stood bread made with does ' milk , and a flagon of wine .
It was the bread of strength and the wine of youth , and Petru longed for them .
He looked once at the bread and once at the wine , and then at the Fairy of the Dawn , still sleeping on her silken cushions .
As he looked a mist came over his senses .
The fairy opened her eyes slowly and looked at Petru , who lost his head still further ; but he just managed to remember his flute , and a few notes of it sent the Fairy to sleep again , and he kissed her thrice .
Then he stooped and laid his golden wreath upon her forehead , ate a piece of the bread and drank a cupful of the wine of youth , and this he did three times over .
Then he filled a flask with water from the well , and vanished swiftly .
As he passed through the garden it seemed quite different from what it was before .
The flowers were lovelier , the streams ran quicker , the sunbeams shone brighter , and the fairies seemed gayer .
And all this had been caused by the three kisses Petru had given the Fairy of the Dawn .
He passed everything safely by , and was soon seated in his saddle again .
Faster than the wind , faster than thought , faster than longing , faster than hatred rode Petru .
At length he dismounted , and , leaving his horses at the roadside , went on foot to the house of Venus .
The goddess Venus knew that he was coming , and went to meet him , bearing with her white bread and red wine .
` Welcome back , my prince , ' said she .
` Good day , and many thanks , ' replied the young man , holding out the flask containing the magic water .
She received it with joy , and after a short rest Petru set forth , for he had no time to lose .
He stopped a few minutes , as he had promised , with the Goddess of Thunder , and was taking a hasty farewell of her , when she called him back .
` Stay , I have a warning to give you , ' said she .
` Beware of your life ; make friends with no man ; do not ride fast , or let the water go out of your hand ; believe no one , and flee flattering tongues .
Go , and take care , for the way is long , the world is bad , and you hold something very precious .
But I will give you this cloth to help you .
It is not much to look at , but it is enchanted , and whoever carries it will never be struck by lightning , pierced by a lance , or smitten with a sword , and the arrows will glance off his body . '
Petru thanked her and rode off , and , taking out his treasure box , inquired how matters were going at home .
Not well , it said .
The emperor was blind altogether now , and Florea and Costan had besought him to give the government of the kingdom into their hands ; but he would not , saying that he did not mean to resign the government till he had washed his eyes from the well of the Fairy of the Dawn .
Then the brothers had gone to consult old Birscha , who told them that Petru was already on his way home bearing the water .
They had set out to meet him , and would try to take the magic water from him , and then claim as their reward the government of the emperor .
` You are lying ! '
cried Petru angrily , throwing the box on the ground , where it broke into a thousand pieces .
It was not long before he began to catch glimpses of his native land , and he drew rein near a bridge , the better to look at it .
He was still gazing , when he heard a sound in the distance as if some one was calling hit by his name .
` You , Petru ! '
it said .
` On !
on ! '
cried the horse ; ` it will fare ill with you if you stop . '
` No , let us stop , and see who and what it is ! '
answered Petru , turning his horse round , and coming face to face with his two brothers .
He had forgotten the warning given him by the Goddess of Thunder , and when Costan and Florea drew near with soft and flattering words he jumped straight off his horse , and rushed to embrace them .
He had a thousand questions to ask , and a thousand things to tell .
But his brown horse stood sadly hanging his head .
` Petru , my dear brother , ' at length said Florea , ` would it not be better if we carried the water for you ?
Some one might try to take it from you on the road , while no one would suspect us . '
` So it would , ' added Costan .
` Florea speaks well . '
But Petru shook his head , and told them what the Goddess of Thunder had said , and about the cloth she had given him .
And both brothers understood there was only one way in which they could kill him .
At a stone 's throw from where they stood ran a rushing stream , with clear deep pools .
` Do n't you feel thirsty , Costan ? '
asked Florea , winking at him .
` Yes , ' replied Costan , understanding directly what was wanted .
` Come , Petru , let us drink now we have the chance , and then we will set out on our way home .
It is a good thing you have us with you , to protect you from harm . '
The horse neighed , and Petru knew what it meant , and did not go with his brothers .
No , he went home to his father , and cured his blindness ; and as for his brothers , they never returned again .
-LRB- From Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE ENCHANTED KNIFE Once upon a time there lived a young man who vowed that he would never marry any girl who had not royal blood in her veins .
One day he plucked up all his courage and went to the palace to ask the emperor for his daughter .
The emperor was not much pleased at the thought of such a match for his only child , but being very polite , he only said : ` Very well , my son , if you can win the princess you shall have her , and the conditions are these .
In eight days you must manage to tame and bring to me three horses that have never felt a master .
The first is pure white , the second a foxy-red with a black head , the third coal black with a white head and feet .
And besides that , you must also bring as a present to the empress , my wife , as much gold as the three horses can carry . '
The young man listened in dismay to these words , but with an effort he thanked the emperor for his kindness and left the palace , wondering how he was to fulfil the task allotted to him .
Luckily for him , the emperor 's daughter had overheard everything her father had said , and peeping through a curtain had seen the youth , and thought him handsomer than anyone she had ever beheld .
So returning hastily to her own room , she wrote him a letter which she gave to a trusty servant to deliver , begging her wooer to come to her rooms early the next day , and to undertake nothing without her advice , if he ever wished her to be his wife .
That night , when her father was asleep , she crept softly into his chamber and took out an enchanted knife from the chest where he kept his treasures , and hid it carefully in a safe place before she went to bed .
The sun had hardly risen the following morning when the princess 's nurse brought the young man to her apartments .
Neither spoke for some minutes , but stood holding each other 's hands for joy , till at last they both cried out that nothing but death should part them .
Then the maiden said : ` Take my horse , and ride straight through the wood towards the sunset till you come to a hill with three peaks .
When you get there , turn first to the right and then to the left , and you will find yourself in a sun meadow , where many horses are feeding .
Out of these you must pick out the three described to you by my father .
If they prove shy , and refuse to let you get near them , draw out your knife , and let the sun shine on it so that the whole meadow is lit up by its rays , and the horses will then approach you of their own accord , and will let you lead them away .
When you have them safely , look about till you see a cypress tree , whose roots are of brass , whose boughs are of silver , and whose leaves are of gold .
Go to it , and cut away the roots with your knife , and you will come to countless bags of gold .
Load the horses with all they can carry , and return to my father , and tell him that you have done your task , and can claim me for your wife . '
The princess had finished all she had to say , and now it depended on the young man to do his part .
He hid the knife in the folds of his girdle , mounted his horse , and rode off in search of the meadow .
This he found without much difficulty , but the horses were all so shy that they galloped away directly he approached them .
Then he drew his knife , and held it up towards the sun , and directly there shone such a glory that the whole meadow was bathed in it .
From all sides the horses rushed pressing round , and each one that passed him fell on its knees to do him honour .
But he only chose from them all the three that the emperor had described .
These he secured by a silken rope to his own horse , and then looked about for the cypress tree .
It was standing by itself in one corner , and in a moment he was beside it , tearing away the earth with his knife .
Deeper and deeper he dug , till far down , below the roots of brass , his knife struck upon the buried treasure , which lay heaped up in bags all around .
With a great effort he lifted them from their hiding place , and laid them one by one on his horses ' backs , and when they could carry no more he led them back to the emperor .
And when the emperor saw him , he wondered , but never guessed how it was the young man had been too clever for him , till the betrothal ceremony was over .
Then he asked his newly made son-in-law what dowry he would require with his bride .
To which the bridegroom made answer , ` Noble emperor !
all I desire is that I may have your daughter for my wife , and enjoy for ever the use of your enchanted knife . '
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
JESPER WHO HERDED THE HARES There was once a king who ruled over a kingdom somewhere between sunrise and sunset .
It was as small as kingdoms usually were in old times , and when the king went up to the roof of his palace and took a look round he could see to the ends of it in every direction .
But as it was all his own , he was very proud of it , and often wondered how it would get along without him .
He had only one child , and that was a daughter , so he foresaw that she must be provided with a husband who would be fit to be king after him .
Where to find one rich enough and clever enough to be a suitable match for the princess was what troubled him , and often kept him awake at night .
At last he devised a plan .
He made a proclamation over all his kingdom -LRB- and asked his nearest neighbours to publish it in theirs as well -RRB- that whoever could bring him a dozen of the finest pearls the king had ever seen , and could perform certain tasks that would be set him , should have his daughter in marriage and in due time succeed to the throne .
The pearls , he thought , could only be brought by a very wealthy man , and the tasks would require unusual talents to accomplish them .
There were plenty who tried to fulfil the terms which the king proposed .
Rich merchants and foreign princes presented themselves one after the other , so that some days the number of them was quite annoying ; but , though they could all produce magnificent pearls , not one of them could perform even the simplest of the tasks set them .
Some turned up , too , who were mere adventurers , and tried to deceive the old king with imitation pearls ; but he was not to be taken in so easily , and they were soon sent about their business .
At the end of several weeks the stream of suitors began to fall off , and still there was no prospect of a suitable son-in-law .
Now it so happened that in a little corner of the king 's dominions , beside the sea , there lived a poor fisher , who had three sons , and their names were Peter , Paul , and Jesper .
Peter and Paul were grown men , while Jesper was just coming to manhood .
The two elder brothers were much bigger and stronger than the youngest , but Jesper was far the cleverest of the three , though neither Peter nor Paul would admit this .
It was a fact , however , as we shall see in the course of our story .
One day the fisherman went out fishing , and among his catch for the day he brought home three dozen oysters .
When these were opened , every shell was found to contain a large and beautiful pearl .
Hereupon the three brothers , at one and the same moment , fell upon the idea of offering themselves as suitors for the princess .
After some discussion , it was agreed that the pearls should be divided by lot , and that each should have his chance in the order of his age : of course , if the oldest was successful the other two would be saved the trouble of trying .
Next morning Peter put his pearls in a little basket , and set off for the king 's palace .
He had not gone far on his way when he came upon the King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles , who , with their armies behind them , were facing each other and preparing for battle .
` Come and help me , ' said the King of the Ants ; ` the beetles are too big for us .
I may help you some day in return . ' '
I have no time to waste on other people 's affairs , ' said Peter ; ` just fight away as best you can ; ' and with that he walked off and left them .
A little further on the way he met an old woman .
` Good morning , young man , ' said she ; ` you are early astir .
What have you got in your basket ? '
` Cinders , ' said Peter promptly , and walked on , adding to himself , ` Take that for being so inquisitive . '
` Very well , cinders be it , ' the old woman called after him , but he pretended not to hear her .
Very soon he reached the palace , and was at once brought before the king .
When he took the cover off the basket , the king and all his courtiers said with one voice that these were the finest pearls they had ever seen , and they could not take their eyes off them .
But then a strange thing happened : the pearls began to lose their whiteness and grew quite dim in colour ; then they grew blacker and blacker till at last they were just like so many cinders .
Peter was so amazed that he could say nothing for himself , but the king said quite enough for both , and Peter was glad to get away home again as fast as his legs would carry him .
To his father and brothers , however , he gave no account of his attempt , except that it had been a failure .
Next day Paul set out to try his luck .
He soon came upon the King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles , who with their armies had encamped on the field of battle all night , and were ready to begin the fight again .
` Come and help me , ' said the King of the Ants ; ` we got the worst of it yesterday .
I may help you some day in return . ' '
I do n't care though you get the worst of it to-day too , ' said Paul . '
I have more important business on hand than mixing myself up in your quarrels . '
So he walked on , and presently the same old woman met him .
` Good morning , ' said she ; ` what have YOU got in your basket ? '
` Cinders , ' said Paul , who was quite as insolent as his brother , and quite as anxious to teach other people good manners .
` Very well , cinders be it , ' the old woman shouted after him , but Paul neither looked back nor answered her .
He thought more of what she said , however , after his pearls also turned to cinders before the eyes of king and court : then he lost no time in getting home again , and was very sulky when asked how he had succeeded .
The third day came , and with it came Jesper 's turn to try his fortune .
He got up and had his breakfast , while Peter and Paul lay in bed and made rude remarks , telling him that he would come back quicker than he went , for if they had failed it could not be supposed that he would succeed .
Jesper made no reply , but put his pearls in the little basket and walked off .
The King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles were again marshalling their hosts , but the ants were greatly reduced in numbers , and had little hope of holding out that day .
` Come and help us , ' said their king to Jesper , ` or we shall be completely defeated .
I may help you some day in return . '
Now Jesper had always heard the ants spoken of as clever and industrious little creatures , while he never heard anyone say a good word for the beetles , so he agreed to give the wished-for help .
At the first charge he made , the ranks of the beetles broke and fled in dismay , and those escaped best that were nearest a hole , and could get into it before Jesper 's boots came down upon them .
In a few minutes the ants had the field all to themselves ; and their king made quite an eloquent speech to Jesper , thanking him for the service he had done them , and promising to assist him in any difficulty .
` Just call on me when you want me , ' he said , ` where-ever you are .
I 'm never far away from anywhere , and if I can possibly help you , I shall not fail to do it . '
Jesper was inclined to laugh at this , but he kept a grave face , said he would remember the offer , and walked on .
At a turn of the road he suddenly came upon the old woman .
` Good morning , ' said she ; ` what have YOU got in your basket ? '
` Pearls , ' said Jesper ; ` I 'm going to the palace to win the princess with them . '
And in case she might not believe him , he lifted the cover and let her see them .
` Beautiful , ' said the old woman ; ` very beautiful indeed ; but they will go a very little way towards winning the princess , unless you can also perform the tasks that are set you .
However , ' she said , ' I see you have brought something with you to eat .
Wo n't you give that to me : you are sure to get a good dinner at the palace . '
` Yes , of course , ' said Jesper , ' I had n't thought of that ' ; and he handed over the whole of his lunch to the old woman .
He had already taken a few steps on the way again , when the old woman called him back .
` Here , ' she said ; ` take this whistle in return for your lunch .
It is n't much to look at , but if you blow it , anything that you have lost or that has been taken from you will find its way back to you in a moment . '
Jesper thanked her for the whistle , though he did not see of what use it was to be to him just then , and held on his way to the palace .
When Jesper presented his pearls to the king there were exclamations of wonder and delight from everyone who saw them .
It was not pleasant , however , to discover that Jesper was a mere fisher-lad ; that was n't the kind of son-in-law that the king had expected , and he said so to the queen .
` Never mind , ' said she , ` you can easily set him such tasks as he will never be able to perform : we shall soon get rid of him . '
` Yes , of course , ' said the king ; ` really I forget things nowadays , with all the bustle we have had of late . '
That day Jesper dined with the king and queen and their nobles , and at night was put into a bedroom grander than anything of the kind he had ever seen .
It was all so new to him that he could not sleep a wink , especially as he was always wondering what kind of tasks would be set him to do , and whether he would be able to perform them .
In spite of the softness of the bed , he was very glad when morning came at last .
After breakfast was over , the king said to Jesper , ` Just come with me , and I 'll show you what you must do first . '
He led him out to the barn , and there in the middle of the floor was a large pile of grain .
` Here , ' said the king , ` you have a mixed heap of wheat , barley , oats , and rye , a sackful of each .
By an hour before sunset you must have these sorted out into four heaps , and if a single grain is found to be in a wrong heap you have no further chance of marrying my daughter .
I shall lock the door , so that no one can get in to assist you , and I shall return at the appointed time to see how you have succeeded . '
The king walked off , and Jesper looked in despair at the task before him .
Then he sat down and tried what he could do at it , but it was soon very clear that single-handed he could never hope to accomplish it in the time .
Assistance was out of the question -- unless , he suddenly thought -- unless the King of the Ants could help .
On him he began to call , and before many minutes had passed that royal personage made his appearance .
Jesper explained the trouble he was in .
` Is that all ? '
said the ant ; ` we shall soon put that to rights . '
He gave the royal signal , and in a minute or two a stream of ants came pouring into the barn , who under the king 's orders set to work to separate the grain into the proper heaps .
Jesper watched them for a while , but through the continual movement of the little creatures , and his not having slept during the previous night , he soon fell sound asleep .
When he woke again , the king had just come into the barn , and was amazed to find that not only was the task accomplished , but that Jesper had found time to take a nap as well .
` Wonderful , ' said he ; ' I could n't have believed it possible .
However , the hardest is yet to come , as you will see to-morrow . '
Jesper thought so too when the next day 's task was set before him .
The king 's gamekeepers had caught a hundred live hares , which were to be let loose in a large meadow , and there Jesper must herd them all day , and bring them safely home in the evening : if even one were missing , he must give up all thought of marrying the princess .
Before he had quite grasped the fact that this was an impossible task , the keepers had opened the sacks in which the hares were brought to the field , and , with a whisk of the short tail and a flap of the long ears , each one of the hundred flew in a different direction .
` Now , ' said the king , ` as he walked away , ` let 's see what your cleverness can do here . '
Jesper stared round him in bewilderment , and having nothing better to do with his hands , thrust them into his pockets , as he was in the habit of doing .
Here he found something which turned out to be the whistle given to him by the old woman .
He remembered what she had said about the virtues of the whistle , but was rather doubtful whether its powers would extend to a hundred hares , each of which had gone in a different direction and might be several miles distant by this time .
However , he blew the whistle , and in a few minutes the hares came bounding through the hedge on all the four sides of the field , and before long were all sitting round him in a circle .
After that , Jesper allowed them to run about as they pleased , so long as they stayed in the field .
The king had told one of the keepers to hang about for a little and see what became of Jesper , not doubting , however , that as soon as he saw the coast clear he would use his legs to the best advantage , and never show face at the palace again .
It was therefore with great surprise and annoyance that he now learned of the mysterious return of the hares and the likelihood of Jesper carrying out his task with success .
` One of them must be got out of his hands by hook or crook , ' said he .
` I 'll go and see the queen about it ; she 's good at devising plans . '
A little later , a girl in a shabby dress came into the field and walked up to Jesper .
` Do give me one of those hares , ' she said ; ` we have just got visitors who are going to stay to dinner , and there 's nothing we can give them to eat . ' '
I ca n't , ' said Jesper .
` For one thing , they 're not mine ; for another , a great deal depends on my having them all here in the evening . '
But the girl -LRB- and she was a very pretty girl , though so shabbily dressed -RRB- begged so hard for one of them that at last he said : ` Very well ; give me a kiss and you shall have one of them . '
He could see that she did n't quite care for this , but she consented to the bargain , and gave him the kiss , and went away with a hare in her apron .
Scarcely had she got outside the field , however , when Jesper blew his whistle , and immediately the hare wriggled out of its prison like an eel , and went back to its master at the top of its speed .
Not long after this the hare-herd had another visit .
This time it was a stout old woman in the dress of a peasant , who also was after a hare to provide a dinner for unexpected visitors .
Jesper again refused , but the old lady was so pressing , and would take no refusal , that at last he said : ` Very well , you shall have a hare , and pay nothing for it either , if you will only walk round me on tiptoe , look up to the sky , and cackle like a hen . '
` Fie , ' said she ; ` what a ridiculous thing to ask anyone to do ; just think what the neighbours would say if they saw me .
They would think I had taken leave of my senses . '
` Just as you like , ' said Jesper ; ` you know best whether you want the hare or not . '
There was no help for it , and a pretty figure the old lady made in carrying out her task ; the cackling was n't very well done , but Jesper said it would do , and gave her the hare .
As soon as she had left the field , the whistle was sounded again , and back came long-legs-and-ears at a marvellous speed .
The next to appear on the same errand was a fat old fellow in the dress of a groom : it was the royal livery he wore , and he plainly thought a good deal of himself .
` Young man , ' said he , ' I want one of those hares ; name your price , but I MUST have one of them . '
` All right , ' said Jesper ; ` you can have one at an easy rate .
Just stand on your head , whack your heels together , and cry `` Hurrah , '' and the hare is yours . '
` Eh , what ! '
said the old fellow ; ` ME stand on my head , what an idea ! '
` Oh , very well , ' said Jesper , ` you need n't unless you like , you know ; but then you wo n't get the hare . '
It went very much against the grain , one could see , but after some efforts the old fellow had his head on the grass and his heels in the air ; the whacking and the ` Hurrah ' were rather feeble , but Jesper was not very exacting , and the hare was handed over .
Of course , it was n't long in coming back again , like the others .
Evening came , and home came Jesper with the hundred hares behind him .
Great was the wonder over all the palace , and the king and queen seemed very much put out , but it was noticed that the princess actually smiled to Jesper .
` Well , well , ' said the king ; ` you have done that very well indeed .
If you are as successful with a little task which I shall give you to-morrow we shall consider the matter settled , and you shall marry the princess . '
Next day it was announced that the task would be performed in the great hall of the palace , and everyone was invited to come and witness it .
The king and queen sat on their thrones , with the princess beside them , and the lords and ladies were all round the hall .
At a sign from the king , two servants carried in a large empty tub , which they set down in the open space before the throne , and Jesper was told to stand beside it .
` Now , ' said the king , ` you must tell us as many undoubted truths as will fill that tub , or you ca n't have the princess . '
` But how are we to know when the tub is full ? '
said Jesper .
` Do n't you trouble about that , ' said the king ; ` that 's my part of the business . '
This seemed to everybody present rather unfair , but no one liked to be the first to say so , and Jesper had to put the best face he could on the matter , and begin his story .
` Yesterday , ' he said , ` when I was herding the hares , there came to me a girl , in a shabby dress , and begged me to give her one of them .
She got the hare , but she had to give me a kiss for it ; AND THAT GIRL WAS THE PRINCESS .
Is n't that true ? '
said he , looking at her .
The princess blushed and looked very uncomfortable , but had to admit that it was true .
` That has n't filled much of the tub , ' said the king .
` Go on again . '
` After that , ' said Jesper , ' a stout old woman , in a peasant 's dress , came and begged for a hare .
Before she got it , she had to walk round me on tiptoe , turn up her eyes , and cackle like a hen ; AND THAT OLD WOMAN WAS THE QUEEN .
Is n't that true , now ? '
The queen turned very red and hot , but could n't deny it .
` H-m , ' said the king ; ` that is something , but the tub is n't full yet . '
To the queen he whispered , ' I did n't think you would be such a fool . '
` What did YOU do ? '
she whispered in return .
` Do you suppose I would do anything for HIM ? '
said the king , and then hurriedly ordered Jesper to go on .
` In the next place , ' said Jesper , ` there came a fat old fellow on the same errand .
He was very proud and dignified , but in order to get the hare he actually stood on his head , whacked his heels together , and cried `` Hurrah '' ; and that old fellow was the -- ' ` Stop , stop , ' shouted the king ; ` you need n't say another word ; the tub is full . '
Then all the court applauded , and the king and queen accepted Jesper as their son-in-law , and the princess was very well pleased , for by this time she had quite fallen in love with him , because he was so handsome and so clever .
When the old king got time to think over it , he was quite convinced that his kingdom would be safe in Jesper 's hands if he looked after the people as well as he herded the hares .
-LRB- Scandinavian . -RRB-
THE UNDERGROUND WORKERS On a bitter night somewhere between Christmas and the New Year , a man set out to walk to the neighbouring village .
It was not many miles off , but the snow was so thick that there were no roads , or walls , or hedges left to guide him , and very soon he lost his way altogether , and was glad to get shelter from the wind behind a thick juniper tree .
Here he resolved to spend the night , thinking that when the sun rose he would be able to see his path again .
So he tucked his legs snugly under him like a hedgehog , rolled himself up in his sheepskin , and went to sleep .
How long he slept , I can not tell you , but after awhile he became aware that some one was gently shaking him , while a stranger whispered , ` My good man , get up !
If you lie there any more , you will be buried in the snow , and no one will ever know what became of you . '
The sleeper slowly raised his head from his furs , and opened his heavy eyes .
Near him stood a long thin man , holding in his hand a young fir tree taller than himself .
` Come with me , ' said the man , ' a little way off we have made a large fire , and you will rest far better there than out upon this moor . '
The sleeper did not wait to be asked twice , but rose at once and followed the stranger .
The snow was falling so fast that he could not see three steps in front of him , till the stranger waved his staff , when the drifts parted before them .
Very soon they reached a wood , and saw the friendly glow of a fire .
` What is your name ? '
asked the stranger , suddenly turning round . '
I am called Hans , the son of Long Hans , ' said the peasant .
In front of the fire three men were sitting clothed in white , just as if it was summer , and for about thirty feet all round winter had been banished .
The moss was dry and the plants green , while the grass seemed all alive with the hum of bees and cockchafers .
But above the noise the son of Long Hans could hear the whistling of the wind and the crackling of the branches as they fell beneath the weight of the snow .
` Well !
you son of Long Hans , is n't this more comfortable than your juniper bush ? '
laughed the stranger , and for answer Hans replied he could not thank his friend enough for having brought him here , and , throwing off his sheepskin , rolled it up as a pillow .
Then , after a hot drink which warmed both their hearts , they lay down on the ground .
The stranger talked for a little to the other men in a language Hans did not understand , and after listening for a short time he once more fell asleep .
When he awoke , neither wood nor fire was to be seen , and he did not know where he was .
He rubbed his eyes , and began to recall the events of the night , thinking he must have been dreaming ; but for all that , he could not make out how he came to be in this place .
Suddenly a loud noise struck on his ear , and he felt the earth tremble beneath his feet .
Hans listened for a moment , then resolved to go towards the place where the sound came from , hoping he might come across some human being .
He found himself at length at the mouth of a rocky cave in which a fire seemed burning .
He entered , and saw a huge forge , and a crowd of men in front of it , blowing bellows and wielding hammers , and to each anvil were seven men , and a set of more comical smiths could not be found if you searched all the world through !
Their heads were bigger than their little bodies , and their hammers twice the size of themselves , but the strongest men on earth could not have handled their iron clubs more stoutly or given lustier blows .
The little blacksmiths were clad in leather aprons , which covered them from their necks to their feet in front , and left their backs naked .
On a high stool against the wall sat the man with the pinewood staff , watching sharply the way the little fellows did their work , and near him stood a large can , from which every now and then the workers would come and take a drink .
The master no longer wore the white garments of the day before , but a black jerkin , held in its place by a leathern girdle with huge clasps .
From time to time he would give his workmen a sign with his staff , for it was useless to speak amid such a noise .
If any of them had noticed that there was a stranger present they took no heed of him , but went on with what they were doing .
After some hours ' hard labour came the time for rest , and they all flung their hammers to the ground and trooped out of the cave .
Then the master got down from his seat and said to Hans : ' I saw you come in , but the work was pressing , and I could not stop to speak to you .
To-day you must be my guest , and I will show you something of the way in which I live .
Wait here for a moment , while I lay aside these dirty clothes . '
With these words he unlocked a door in the cave , and bade Hans pass in before him .
Oh , what riches and treasures met Hans ' astonished eyes !
Gold and silver bars lay piled on the floor , and glittered so that you could not look at them !
Hans thought he would count them for fun , and had already reached the five hundred and seventieth when his host returned and cried , laughing : ` Do not try to count them , it would take too long ; choose some of the bars from the heap , as I should like to make you a present of them . '
Hans did not wait to be asked twice , and stooped to pick up a bar of gold , but though he put forth all his strength he could not even move it with both hands , still less lift it off the ground .
` Why , you have no more power than a flea , ' laughed the host ; ` you will have to content yourself with feasting your eyes upon them ! '
So he bade Hans follow him through other rooms , till they entered one bigger than a church , filled , like the rest , with gold and silver .
Hans wondered to see these vast riches , which might have bought all the kingdoms of the world , and lay buried , useless , he thought , to anyone .
` What is the reason , ' he asked of his guide , ` that you gather up these treasures here , where they can do good to nobody ?
If they fell into the hands of men , everyone would be rich , and none need work or suffer hunger . '
` And it is exactly for that reason , ' answered he , ` that I must keep these riches out of their way .
The whole world would sink to idleness if men were not forced to earn their daily bread .
It is only through work and care that man can ever hope to be good for anything . '
Hans stared at these words , and at last he begged that his host would tell him what use it was to anybody that this gold and silver should lie mouldering there , and the owner of it be continually trying to increase his treasure , which already overflowed his store rooms . '
I am not really a man , ' replied his guide , ` though I have the outward form of one , but one of those beings to whom is given the care of the world .
It is my task and that of my workmen to prepare under the earth the gold and silver , a small portion of which finds its way every year to the upper world , but only just enough to help them carry on their business .
To none comes wealth without trouble : we must first dig out the gold and mix the grains with earth , clay , and sand .
Then , after long and hard seeking , it will be found in this state , by those who have good luck or much patience .
But , my friend , the hour of dinner is at hand .
If you wish to remain in this place , and feast your eyes on this gold , then stay till I call you . '
In his absence Hans wandered from one treasure chamber to another , sometimes trying to break off a little lump of gold , but never able to do it .
After awhile his host came back , but so changed that Hans could not believe it was really he .
His silken clothes were of the brightest flame colour , richly trimmed with gold fringes and lace ; a golden girdle was round his waist , while his head was encircled with a crown of gold , and precious stones twinkled about him like stars in a winter 's night , and in place of his wooden stick he held a finely worked golden staff .
The lord of all this treasure locked the doors and put the keys in his pocket , then led Hans into another room , where dinner was laid for them .
Table and seats were all of silver , while the dishes and plates were of solid gold .
Directly they sat down , a dozen little servants appeared to wait on them , which they did so cleverly and so quickly that Hans could hardly believe they had no wings .
As they did not reach as high as the table , they were often obliged to jump and hop right on to the top to get at the dishes .
Everything was new to Hans , and though he was rather bewildered he enjoyed himself very much , especially when the man with the golden crown began to tell him many things he had never heard of before .
` Between Christmas and the New Year , ' said he , ' I often amuse myself by wandering about the earth watching the doings of men and learning something about them .
But as far as I have seen and heard I can not speak well of them .
The greater part of them are always quarrelling and complaining of each other 's faults , while nobody thinks of his own . '
Hans tried to deny the truth of these words , but he could not do it , and sat silent , hardly listening to what his friend was saying .
Then he went to sleep in his chair , and knew nothing of what was happening .
Wonderful dreams came to him during his sleep , where the bars of gold continually hovered before his eyes .
He felt stronger than he had ever felt during his waking moments , and lifted two bars quite easily on to his back .
He did this so often that at length his strength seemed exhausted , and he sank almost breathless on the ground .
Then he heard the sound of cheerful voices , and the song of the blacksmiths as they blew their bellows -- he even felt as if he saw the sparks flashing before his eyes .
Stretching himself , he awoke slowly , and here he was in the green forest , and instead of the glow of the fire in the underworld the sun was streaming on him , and he sat up wondering why he felt so strange .
At length his memory came back to him , and as he called to mind all the wonderful things he had seen he tried in vain to make them agree with those that happen every day .
After thinking it over till he was nearly mad , he tried at last to believe that one night between Christmas and the New Year he had met a stranger in the forest , and had slept all night in his company before a big fire ; the next day they had dined together , and had drunk a great deal more than was good for them -- in short , he had spent two whole days revelling with another man .
But here , with the full tide of summer around him , he could hardly accept his own explanation , and felt that he must have been the plaything or sport of some magician .
Near him , in the full sunlight , were the traces of a dead fire , and when he drew close to it he saw that what he had taken for ashes was really fine silver dust , and that the half burnt firewood was made of gold .
Oh , how lucky Hans thought himself ; but where should he get a sack to carry his treasure home before anyone else found it ?
But necessity is the mother of invention : Hans threw off his fur coat , gathered up the silver ashes so carefully in it that none remained behind , laid the gold sticks on top , and tied up the bag thus made with his girdle , so that nothing should fall out .
The load was not , in point of fact , very heavy , although it seemed so to his imagination , and he moved slowly along till he found a safe hiding-place for it .
In this way Hans suddenly became rich -- rich enough to buy a property of his own .
But being a prudent man , he finally decided that it would be best for him to leave his old neighbourhood and look for a home in a distant part of the country , where nobody knew anything about him .
It did not take him long to find what he wanted , and after he had paid for it there was plenty of money left over .
When he was settled , he married a pretty girl who lived near by , and had some children , to whom on his death-bed he told the story of the lord of the underworld , and how he had made Hans rich .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE HISTORY OF DWARF LONG NOSE It is a great mistake to think that fairies , witches , magicians , and such people lived only in Eastern countries and in such times as those of the Caliph Haroun Al-Raschid .
Fairies and their like belong to every country and every age , and no doubt we should see plenty of them now -- if we only knew how .
In a large town in Germany there lived , some couple of hundred years ago , a cobbler and his wife .
They were poor and hard-working .
The man sat all day in a little stall at the street corner and mended any shoes that were brought him .
His wife sold the fruit and vegetables they grew in their garden in the Market Place , and as she was always neat and clean and her goods were temptingly spread out she had plenty of customers .
The couple had one boy called Jem .
A handsome , pleasant-faced boy of twelve , and tall for his age .
He used to sit by his mother in the market and would carry home what people bought from her , for which they often gave him a pretty flower , or a slice of cake , or even some small coin .
One day Jem and his mother sat as usual in the Market Place with plenty of nice herbs and vegetables spread out on the board , and in some smaller baskets early pears , apples , and apricots .
Jem cried his wares at the top of his voice : ` This way , gentlemen !
See these lovely cabbages and these fresh herbs !
Early apples , ladies ; early pears and apricots , and all cheap .
Come , buy , buy ! '
As he cried an old woman came across the Market Place .
She looked very torn and ragged , and had a small sharp face , all wrinkled , with red eyes , and a thin hooked nose which nearly met her chin .
She leant on a tall stick and limped and shuffled and stumbled along as if she were going to fall on her nose at any moment .
In this fashion she came along till she got to the stall where Jem and his mother were , and there she stopped .
` Are you Hannah the herb seller ? '
she asked in a croaky voice as her head shook to and fro .
` Yes , I am , ' was the answer .
` Can I serve you ? '
` We 'll see ; we 'll see !
Let me look at those herbs .
I wonder if you 've got what I want , ' said the old woman as she thrust a pair of hideous brown hands into the herb basket , and began turning over all the neatly packed herbs with her skinny fingers , often holding them up to her nose and sniffing at them .
The cobbler 's wife felt much disgusted at seeing her wares treated like this , but she dared not speak .
When the old hag had turned over the whole basket she muttered , ` Bad stuff , bad stuff ; much better fifty years ago -- all bad . '
This made Jem very angry ` You are a very rude old woman , ' he cried out .
` First you mess all our nice herbs about with your horrid brown fingers and sniff at them with your long nose till no one else will care to buy them , and then you say it 's all bad stuff , though the duke 's cook himself buys all his herbs from us . '
The old woman looked sharply at the saucy boy , laughed unpleasantly , and said : ` So you do n't like my long nose , sonny ?
Well , you shall have one yourself , right down to your chin . '
As she spoke she shuffled towards the hamper of cabbages , took up one after another , squeezed them hard , and threw them back , muttering again , ` Bad stuff , bad stuff . '
` Do n't waggle your head in that horrid way , ' begged Jem anxiously .
` Your neck is as thin as a cabbage-stalk , and it might easily break and your head fall into the basket , and then who would buy anything ? '
` Do n't you like thin necks ? '
laughed the old woman .
` Then you sha 'n' t have any , but a head stuck close between your shoulders so that it may be quite sure not to fall off . '
` Do n't talk such nonsense to the child , ' said the mother at last .
` If you wish to buy , please make haste , as you are keeping other customers away . '
` Very well , I will do as you ask , ' said the old woman , with an angry look . '
I will buy these six cabbages , but , as you see , I can only walk with my stick and can carry nothing .
Let your boy carry them home for me and I 'll pay him for his trouble . '
The little fellow did n't like this , and began to cry , for he was afraid of the old woman , but his mother ordered him to go , for she thought it wrong not to help such a weakly old creature ; so , still crying , he gathered the cabbages into a basket and followed the old woman across the Market Place .
It took her more than half an hour to get to a distant part of the little town , but at last she stopped in front of a small tumble-down house .
She drew a rusty old hook from her pocket and stuck it into a little hole in the door , which suddenly flew open .
How surprised Jem was when they went in !
The house was splendidly furnished , the walls and ceiling of marble , the furniture of ebony inlaid with gold and precious stones , the floor of such smooth slippery glass that the little fellow tumbled down more than once .
The old woman took out a silver whistle and blew it till the sound rang through the house .
Immediately a lot of guinea pigs came running down the stairs , but Jem thought it rather odd that they all walked on their hind legs , wore nutshells for shoes , and men 's clothes , whilst even their hats were put on in the newest fashion .
` Where are my slippers , lazy crew ? '
cried the old woman , and hit about with her stick .
` How long am I to stand waiting here ? '
They rushed upstairs again and returned with a pair of cocoa nuts lined with leather , which she put on her feet .
Now all limping and shuffling was at an end .
She threw away her stick and walked briskly across the glass floor , drawing little Jem after her .
At last she paused in a room which looked almost like a kitchen , it was so full of pots and pans , but the tables were of mahogany and the sofas and chairs covered with the richest stuffs .
` Sit down , ' said the old woman pleasantly , and she pushed Jem into a corner of a sofa and put a table close in front of him .
` Sit down , you 've had a long walk and a heavy load to carry , and I must give you something for your trouble .
Wait a bit , and I 'll give you some nice soup , which you 'll remember as long as you live . '
So saying , she whistled again .
First came in guinea pigs in men 's clothing .
They had tied on large kitchen aprons , and in their belts were stuck carving knives and sauce ladles and such things .
After them hopped in a number of squirrels .
They too walked on their hind legs , wore full Turkish trousers , and little green velvet caps on their heads .
They seemed to be the scullions , for they clambered up the walls and brought down pots and pans , eggs , flour , butter , and herbs , which they carried to the stove .
Here the old woman was bustling about , and Jem could see that she was cooking something very special for him .
At last the broth began to bubble and boil , and she drew off the saucepan and poured its contents into a silver bowl , which she set before Jem .
` There , my boy , ' said she , ` eat this soup and then you 'll have everything which pleased you so much about me .
And you shall be a clever cook too , but the real herb -- no , the REAL herb you 'll never find .
Why had your mother not got it in her basket ? '
The child could not think what she was talking about , but he quite understood the soup , which tasted most delicious .
His mother had often given him nice things , but nothing had ever seemed so good as this .
The smell of the herbs and spices rose from the bowl , and the soup tasted both sweet and sharp at the same time , and was very strong .
As he was finishing it the guinea pigs lit some Arabian incense , which gradually filled the room with clouds of blue vapour .
They grew thicker and thicker and the scent nearly overpowered the boy .
He reminded himself that he must get back to his mother , but whenever he tried to rouse himself to go he sank back again drowsily , and at last he fell sound asleep in the corner of the sofa .
Strange dreams came to him .
He thought the old woman took off all his clothes and wrapped him up in a squirrel skin , and that he went about with the other squirrels and guinea pigs , who were all very pleasant and well mannered , and waited on the old woman .
First he learned to clean her cocoa-nut shoes with oil and to rub them up .
Then he learnt to catch the little sun moths and rub them through the finest sieves , and the flour from them he made into soft bread for the toothless old woman .
In this way he passed from one kind of service to another , spending a year in each , till in the fourth year he was promoted to the kitchen .
Here he worked his way up from under-scullion to head-pastrycook , and reached the greatest perfection .
He could make all the most difficult dishes , and two hundred different kinds of patties , soup flavoured with every sort of herb -- he had learnt it all , and learnt it well and quickly .
When he had lived seven years with the old woman she ordered him one day , as she was going out , to kill and pluck a chicken , stuff it with herbs , and have it very nicely roasted by the time she got back .
He did this quite according to rule .
He wrung the chicken 's neck , plunged it into boiling water , carefully plucked out all the feathers , and rubbed the skin nice and smooth .
Then he went to fetch the herbs to stuff it with .
In the store-room he noticed a half-opened cupboard which he did not remember having seen before .
He peeped in and saw a lot of baskets from which came a strong and pleasant smell .
He opened one and found a very uncommon herb in it .
The stems and leaves were a bluish green , and above them was a little flower of a deep bright red , edged with yellow .
He gazed at the flower , smelt it , and found it gave the same strong strange perfume which came from the soup the old woman had made him .
But the smell was so sharp that he began to sneeze again and again , and at last -- he woke up !
There he lay on the old woman 's sofa and stared about him in surprise .
` Well , what odd dreams one does have to be sure ! '
he said to himself .
` Why , I could have sworn I had been a squirrel , a companion of guinea pigs and such creatures , and had become a great cook , too .
How mother will laugh when I tell her !
But wo n't she scold me , though , for sleeping away here in a strange house , instead of helping her at market ! '
He jumped up and prepared to go : all his limbs still seemed quite stiff with his long sleep , especially his neck , for he could not move his head easily , and he laughed at his own stupidity at being still so drowsy that he kept knocking his nose against the wall or cupboards .
The squirrels and guinea pigs ran whimpering after him , as though they would like to go too , and he begged them to come when he reached the door , but they all turned and ran quickly back into the house again .
The part of the town was out of the way , and Jem did not know the many narrow streets in it and was puzzled by their windings and by the crowd of people , who seemed excited about some show .
From what he heard , he fancied they were going to see a dwarf , for he heard them call out : ` Just look at the ugly dwarf ! '
` What a long nose he has , and see how his head is stuck in between his shoulders , and only look at his ugly brown hands ! '
If he had not been in such a hurry to get back to his mother , he would have gone too , for he loved shows with giants and dwarfs and the like .
He was quite puzzled when he reached the market-place .
There sat his mother , with a good deal of fruit still in her baskets , so he felt he could not have slept so very long , but it struck him that she was sad , for she did not call to the passers-by , but sat with her head resting on her hand , and as he came nearer he thought she looked paler than usual .
He hesitated what to do , but at last he slipped behind her , laid a hand on her arm , and said : ` Mammy , what 's the matter ?
Are you angry with me ? '
She turned round quickly and jumped up with a cry of horror .
` What do you want , you hideous dwarf ? '
she cried ; ` get away ; I ca n't bear such tricks . '
` But , mother dear , what 's the matter with you ? '
repeated Jem , quite frightened .
` You ca n't be well .
Why do you want to drive your son away ? ' '
I have said already , get away , ' replied Hannah , quite angrily .
` You wo n't get anything out of me by your games , you monstrosity . '
` Oh dear , oh dear !
she must be wandering in her mind , ' murmured the lad to himself .
` How can I manage to get her home ?
Dearest mother , do look at me close .
Ca n't you see I am your own son Jem ? '
` Well , did you ever hear such impudence ? '
asked Hannah , turning to a neighbour .
` Just see that frightful dwarf -- would you believe that he wants me to think he is my son Jem ? '
Then all the market women came round and talked all together and scolded as hard as they could , and said what a shame it was to make game of Mrs. Hannah , who had never got over the loss of her beautiful boy , who had been stolen from her seven years ago , and they threatened to fall upon Jem and scratch him well if he did not go away at once .
Poor Jem did not know what to make of it all .
He was sure he had gone to market with his mother only that morning , had helped to set out the stall , had gone to the old woman 's house , where he had some soup and a little nap , and now , when he came back , they were all talking of seven years .
And they called him a horrid dwarf !
Why , what had happened to him ?
When he found that his mother would really have nothing to do with him he turned away with tears in his eyes , and went sadly down the street towards his father 's stall .
` Now I 'll see whether he will know me , ' thought he .
` I 'll stand by the door and talk to him . '
When he got to the stall he stood in the doorway and looked in .
The cobbler was so busy at work that he did not see him for some time , but , happening to look up , he caught sight of his visitor , and letting shoes , thread , and everything fall to the ground , he cried with horror : ` Good heavens !
what is that ? '
` Good evening , master , ' said the boy , as he stepped in .
` How do you do ? '
` Very ill , little sir , replied the father , to Jem 's surprise , for he did not seem to know him .
` Business does not go well .
I am all alone , and am getting old , and a workman is costly . '
` But have n't you a son who could learn your trade by degrees ? '
asked Jem . '
I had one : he was called Jem , and would have been a tall sturdy lad of twenty by this time , and able to help me well .
Why , when he was only twelve he was quite sharp and quick , and had learnt many little things , and a good-looking boy too , and pleasant , so that customers were taken by him .
Well , well !
so goes the world ! '
` But where is your son ? '
asked Jem , with a trembling voice .
` Heaven only knows ! '
replied the man ; ` seven years ago he was stolen from the market-place , and we have heard no more of him . '
` SEVEN YEARS AGO ! '
cried Jem , with horror .
` Yes , indeed , seven years ago , though it seems but yesterday that my wife came back howling and crying , and saying the child had not come back all day .
I always thought and said that something of the kind would happen .
Jem was a beautiful boy , and everyone made much of him , and my wife was so proud of him , and liked him to carry the vegetables and things to grand folks ' houses , where he was petted and made much of .
But I used to say , `` Take care -- the town is large , there are plenty of bad people in it -- keep a sharp eye on Jem . ''
And so it happened ; for one day an old woman came and bought a lot of things -- more than she could carry ; so my wife , being a kindly soul , lent her the boy , and -- we have never seen him since . '
` And that was seven years ago , you say ? '
` Yes , seven years : we had him cried -- we went from house to house .
Many knew the pretty boy , and were fond of him , but it was all in vain .
No one seemed to know the old woman who bought the vegetables either ; only one old woman , who is ninety years old , said it might have been the fairy Herbaline , who came into the town once in every fifty years to buy things . '
As his father spoke , things grew clearer to Jem 's mind , and he saw now that he had not been dreaming , but had really served the old woman seven years in the shape of a squirrel .
As he thought it over rage filled his heart .
Seven years of his youth had been stolen from him , and what had he got in return ?
To learn to rub up cocoa nuts , and to polish glass floors , and to be taught cooking by guinea pigs !
He stood there thinking , till at last his father asked him : ` Is there anything I can do for you , young gentleman ?
Shall I make you a pair of slippers , or perhaps ' with a smile -- ' a case for your nose ? '
` What have you to do with my nose ? '
asked Jem .
` And why should I want a case for it ? '
` Well , everyone to his taste , ' replied the cobbler ; ` but I must say if I had such a nose I would have a nice red leather cover made for it .
Here is a nice piece ; and think what a protection it would be to you .
As it is , you must be constantly knocking up against things . '
The lad was dumb with fright .
He felt his nose .
It was thick , and quite two hands long .
So , then , the old woman had changed his shape , and that was why his own mother did not know him , and called him a horrid dwarf !
` Master , ' said he , ` have you got a glass that I could see myself in ? '
` Young gentleman , ' was the answer , ` your appearance is hardly one to be vain of , and there is no need to waste your time looking in a glass .
Besides , I have none here , and if you must have one you had better ask Urban the barber , who lives over the way , to lend you his .
Good morning . '
So saying , he gently pushed Jem into the street , shut the door , and went back to his work .
Jem stepped across to the barber , whom he had known in old days .
` Good morning , Urban , ' said he ; ` may I look at myself in your glass for a moment ? '
` With pleasure , ' said the barber , laughing , and all the people in his shop fell to laughing also .
` You are a pretty youth , with your swan-like neck and white hands and small nose .
No wonder you are rather vain ; but look as long as you like at yourself . '
So spoke the barber , and a titter ran round the room .
Meantime Jem had stepped up to the mirror , and stood gazing sadly at his reflection .
Tears came to his eyes .
` No wonder you did not know your child again , dear mother , ' thought he ; ` he was n't like this when you were so proud of his looks . '
His eyes had grown quite small , like pigs ' eyes , his nose was huge and hung down over his mouth and chin , his throat seemed to have disappeared altogether , and his head was fixed stiffly between his shoulders .
He was no taller than he had been seven years ago , when he was not much more than twelve years old , but he made up in breadth , and his back and chest had grown into lumps like two great sacks .
His legs were small and spindly , but his arms were as large as those of a well-grown man , with large brown hands , and long skinny fingers .
Then he remembered the morning when he had first seen the old woman , and her threats to him , and without saying a word he left the barber 's shop .
He determined to go again to his mother , and found her still in the market-place .
He begged her to listen quietly to him , and he reminded her of the day when he went away with the old woman , and of many things in his childhood , and told her how the fairy had bewitched him , and he had served her seven years .
Hannah did not know what to think -- the story was so strange ; and it seemed impossible to think her pretty boy and this hideous dwarf were the same .
At last she decided to go and talk to her husband about it .
She gathered up her baskets , told Jem to follow her , and went straight to the cobbler 's stall .
` Look here , ' said she , ` this creature says he is our lost son .
He has been telling me how he was stolen seven years ago , and bewitched by a fairy . '
` Indeed ! '
interrupted the cobbler angrily .
` Did he tell you this ?
Wait a minute , you rascal !
Why I told him all about it myself only an hour ago , and then he goes off to humbug you .
So you were bewitched , my son were you ?
Wait a bit , and I 'll bewitch you ! '
So saying , he caught up a bundle of straps , and hit out at Jem so hard that he ran off crying .
The poor little dwarf roamed about all the rest of the day without food or drink , and at night was glad to lie down and sleep on the steps of a church .
He woke next morning with the first rays of light , and began to think what he could do to earn a living .
Suddenly he remembered that he was an excellent cook , and he determined to look out for a place .
As soon as it was quite daylight he set out for the palace , for he knew that the grand duke who reigned over the country was fond of good things .
When he reached the palace all the servants crowded about him , and made fun of him , and at last their shouts and laughter grew so loud that the head steward rushed out , crying , ` For goodness sake , be quiet , ca n't you .
Do n't you know his highness is still asleep ? '
Some of the servants ran off at once , and others pointed out Jem .
Indeed , the steward found it hard to keep himself from laughing at the comic sight , but he ordered the servants off and led the dwarf into his own room .
When he heard him ask for a place as cook , he said : ` You make some mistake , my lad .
I think you want to be the grand duke 's dwarf , do n't you ? '
` No , sir , ' replied Jem . '
I am an experienced cook , and if you will kindly take me to the head cook he may find me of some use . '
` Well , as you will ; but believe me , you would have an easier place as the grand ducal dwarf . '
So saying , the head steward led him to the head cook 's room .
` Sir , ' asked Jem , as he bowed till his nose nearly touched the floor , ` do you want an experienced cook ? '
The head cook looked him over from head to foot , and burst out laughing .
` You a cook !
Do you suppose our cooking stoves are so low that you can look into any saucepan on them ?
Oh , my dear little fellow , whoever sent you to me wanted to make fun of you . '
But the dwarf was not to be put off .
` What matters an extra egg or two , or a little butter or flour and spice more or less , in such a house as this ? '
said he .
` Name any dish you wish to have cooked , and give me the materials I ask for , and you shall see . '
He said much more , and at last persuaded the head cook to give him a trial .
They went into the kitchen -- a huge place with at least twenty fireplaces , always alight .
A little stream of clear water ran through the room , and live fish were kept at one end of it .
Everything in the kitchen was of the best and most beautiful kind , and swarms of cooks and scullions were busy preparing dishes .
When the head cook came in with Jem everyone stood quite still .
` What has his highness ordered for luncheon ? '
asked the head cook .
` Sir , his highness has graciously ordered a Danish soup and red Hamburg dumplings . '
` Good , ' said the head cook .
` Have you heard , and do you feel equal to making these dishes ?
Not that you will be able to make the dumplings , for they are a secret receipt . '
` Is that all ! '
said Jem , who had often made both dishes .
` Nothing easier .
Let me have some eggs , a piece of wild boar , and such and such roots and herbs for the soup ; and as for the dumplings , ' he added in a low voice to the head cook , ' I shall want four different kinds of meat , some wine , a duck 's marrow , some ginger , and a herb called heal-well . '
` Why , ' cried the astonished cook , ` where did you learn cooking ?
Yes , those are the exact materials , but we never used the herb heal-well , which , I am sure , must be an improvement . '
And now Jem was allowed to try his hand .
He could not nearly reach up to the kitchen range , but by putting a wide plank on two chairs he managed very well .
All the cooks stood round to look on , and could not help admiring the quick , clever way in which he set to work .
At last , when all was ready , Jem ordered the two dishes to be put on the fire till he gave the word .
Then he began to count : ` One , two , three , ' till he got to five hundred when he cried , ` Now ! '
The saucepans were taken off , and he invited the head cook to taste .
The first cook took a golden spoon , washed and wiped it , and handed it to the head cook , who solemnly approached , tasted the dishes , and smacked his lips over them .
` First rate , indeed ! '
he exclaimed .
` You certainly are a master of the art , little fellow , and the herb heal-well gives a particular relish . '
As he was speaking , the duke 's valet came to say that his highness was ready for luncheon , and it was served at once in silver dishes .
The head cook took Jem to his own room , but had hardly had time to question him before he was ordered to go at once to the grand duke .
He hurried on his best clothes and followed the messenger .
The grand duke was looking much pleased .
He had emptied the dishes , and was wiping his mouth as the head cook came in .
` Who cooked my luncheon to-day ? '
asked he . '
I must say your dumplings are always very good ; but I do n't think I ever tasted anything so delicious as they were to-day .
Who made them ? '
` It is a strange story , your highness , ' said the cook , and told him the whole matter , which surprised the duke so much that he sent for the dwarf and asked him many questions .
Of course , Jem could not say he had been turned into a squirrel , but he said he was without parents and had been taught cooking by an old woman .
` If you will stay with me , ' said the grand duke , ` you shall have fifty ducats a year , besides a new coat and a couple of pairs of trousers .
You must undertake to cook my luncheon yourself and to direct what I shall have for dinner , and you shall be called assistant head cook . '
Jem bowed to the ground , and promised to obey his new master in all things .
He lost no time in setting to work , and everyone rejoiced at having him in the kitchen , for the duke was not a patient man , and had been known to throw plates and dishes at his cooks and servants if the things served were not quite to his taste .
Now all was changed .
He never even grumbled at anything , had five meals instead of three , thought everything delicious , and grew fatter daily .
And so Jem lived on for two years , much respected and considered , and only saddened when he thought of his parents .
One day passed much like another till the following incident happened .
Dwarf Long Nose -- as he was always called -- made a practice of doing his marketing as much as possible himself , and whenever time allowed went to the market to buy his poultry and fruit .
One morning he was in the goose market , looking for some nice fat geese .
No one thought of laughing at his appearance now ; he was known as the duke 's special body cook , and every goose-woman felt honoured if his nose turned her way .
He noticed one woman sitting apart with a number of geese , but not crying or praising them like the rest .
He went up to her , felt and weighed her geese , and , finding them very good , bought three and the cage to put them in , hoisted them on his broad shoulders , and set off on his way back .
As he went , it struck him that two of the geese were gobbling and screaming as geese do , but the third sat quite still , only heaving a deep sigh now and then , like a human being .
` That goose is ill , ' said he ; ' I must make haste to kill and dress her . '
But the goose answered him quite distinctly : ` Squeeze too tight And I 'll bite , If my neck a twist you gave I 'd bring you to an early grave . '
Quite frightened , the dwarf set down the cage , and the goose gazed at him with sad wise-looking eyes and sighed again .
` Good gracious ! '
said Long Nose .
` So you can speak , Mistress Goose .
I never should have thought it !
Well , do n't be anxious .
I know better than to hurt so rare a bird .
But I could bet you were not always in this plumage -- was n't I a squirrel myself for a time ? '
` You are right , ' said the goose , ` in supposing I was not born in this horrid shape .
Ah !
no one ever thought that Mimi , the daughter of the great Weatherbold , would be killed for the ducal table . '
` Be quite easy , Mistress Mimi , ' comforted Jem .
` As sure as I 'm an honest man and assistant head cook to his highness , no one shall harm you .
I will make a hutch for you in my own rooms , and you shall be well fed , and I 'll come and talk to you as much as I can .
I 'll tell all the other cooks that I am fattening up a goose on very special food for the grand duke , and at the first good opportunity I will set you free . '
The goose thanked him with tears in her eyes , and the dwarf kept his word .
He killed the other two geese for dinner , but built a little shed for Mimi in one of his rooms , under the pretence of fattening her under his own eye .
He spent all his spare time talking to her and comforting her , and fed her on all the daintiest dishes .
They confided their histories to each other , and Jem learnt that the goose was the daughter of the wizard Weatherbold , who lived on the island of Gothland .
He fell out with an old fairy , who got the better of him by cunning and treachery , and to revenge herself turned his daughter into a goose and carried her off to this distant place .
When Long Nose told her his story she said : ' I know a little of these matters , and what you say shows me that you are under a herb enchantment -- that is to say , that if you can find the herb whose smell woke you up the spell would be broken . '
This was but small comfort for Jem , for how and where was he to find the herb ?
About this time the grand duke had a visit from a neighbouring prince , a friend of his .
He sent for Long Nose and said to him : ` Now is the time to show what you can really do .
This prince who is staying with me has better dinners than any one except myself , and is a great judge of cooking .
As long as he is here you must take care that my table shall be served in a manner to surprise him constantly .
At the same time , on pain of my displeasure , take care that no dish shall appear twice .
Get everything you wish and spare nothing .
If you want to melt down gold and precious stones , do so .
I would rather be a poor man than have to blush before him . '
The dwarf bowed and answered : ` Your highness shall be obeyed .
I will do all in my power to please you and the prince . '
From this time the little cook was hardly seen except in the kitchen , where , surrounded by his helpers , he gave orders , baked , stewed , flavoured and dished up all manner of dishes .
The prince had been a fortnight with the grand duke , and enjoyed himself mightily .
They ate five times a day , and the duke had every reason to be content with the dwarf 's talents , for he saw how pleased his guest looked .
On the fifteenth day the duke sent for the dwarf and presented him to the prince .
` You are a wonderful cook , ' said the prince , ` and you certainly know what is good .
All the time I have been here you have never repeated a dish , and all were excellent .
But tell me why you have never served the queen of all dishes , a Suzeraine Pasty ? '
The dwarf felt frightened , for he had never heard of this Queen of Pasties before .
But he did not lose his presence of mind , and replied : ' I have waited , hoping that your highness ' visit here would last some time , for I proposed to celebrate the last day of your stay with this truly royal dish . '
` Indeed , ' laughed the grand duke ; ` then I suppose you would have waited for the day of my death to treat me to it , for you have never sent it up to me yet .
However , you will have to invent some other farewell dish , for the pasty must be on my table to-morrow . '
` As your highness pleases , ' said the dwarf , and took leave .
But it did not please HIM at all .
The moment of disgrace seemed at hand , for he had no idea how to make this pasty .
He went to his rooms very sad .
As he sat there lost in thought the goose Mimi , who was left free to walk about , came up to him and asked what was the matter ?
When she heard she said : ` Cheer up , my friend .
I know the dish quite well : we often had it at home , and I can guess pretty well how it was made . '
Then she told him what to put in , adding : ' I think that will be all right , and if some trifle is left out perhaps they wo n't find it out . '
Sure enough , next day a magnificent pasty all wreathed round with flowers was placed on the table .
Jem himself put on his best clothes and went into the dining hall .
As he entered the head carver was in the act of cutting up the pie and helping the duke and his guests .
The grand duke took a large mouthful and threw up his eyes as he swallowed it .
` Oh !
oh !
this may well be called the Queen of Pasties , and at the same time my dwarf must be called the king of cooks .
Do n't you think so , dear friend ? '
The prince took several small pieces , tasted and examined carefully , and then said with a mysterious and sarcastic smile : ` The dish is very nicely made , but the Suzeraine is not quite complete -- as I expected . '
The grand duke flew into a rage .
` Dog of a cook , ' he shouted ; ` how dare you serve me so ?
I 've a good mind to chop off your great head as a punishment . '
` For mercy 's sake , do n't , your highness !
I made the pasty according to the best rules ; nothing has been left out .
Ask the prince what else I should have put in . '
The prince laughed . '
I was sure you could not make this dish as well as my cook , friend Long Nose .
Know , then , that a herb is wanting called Relish , which is not known in this country , but which gives the pasty its peculiar flavour , and without which your master will never taste it to perfection . '
The grand duke was more furious than ever .
` But I WILL taste it to perfection , ' he roared .
` Either the pasty must be made properly to-morrow or this rascal 's head shall come off .
Go , scoundrel , I give you twenty-four hours respite . '
The poor dwarf hurried back to his room , and poured out his grief to the goose .
` Oh , is that all , ' said she , ` then I can help you , for my father taught me to know all plants and herbs .
Luckily this is a new moon just now , for the herb only springs up at such times .
But tell me , are there chestnut trees near the palace ? '
` Oh , yes ! '
cried Long Nose , much relieved ; ` near the lake -- only a couple of hundred yards from the palace -- is a large clump of them .
But why do you ask ? '
` Because the herb only grows near the roots of chestnut trees , ' replied Mimi ; ` so let us lose no time in finding it .
Take me under your arm and put me down out of doors , and I 'll hunt for it . '
He did as she bade , and as soon as they were in the garden put her on the ground , when she waddled off as fast as she could towards the lake , Jem hurrying after her with an anxious heart , for he knew that his life depended on her success .
The goose hunted everywhere , but in vain .
She searched under each chestnut tree , turning every blade of grass with her bill -- nothing to be seen , and evening was drawing on !
Suddenly the dwarf noticed a big old tree standing alone on the other side of the lake .
` Look , ' cried he , ` let us try our luck there . '
The goose fluttered and skipped in front , and he ran after as fast as his little legs could carry him .
The tree cast a wide shadow , and it was almost dark beneath it , but suddenly the goose stood still , flapped her wings with joy , and plucked something , which she held out to her astonished friend , saying : ` There it is , and there is more growing here , so you will have no lack of it . '
The dwarf stood gazing at the plant .
It gave out a strong sweet scent , which reminded him of the day of his enchantment .
The stems and leaves were a bluish green , and it bore a dark , bright red flower with a yellow edge .
` What a wonder ! '
cried Long Nose . '
I do believe this is the very herb which changed me from a squirrel into my present miserable form .
Shall I try an experiment ? '
` Not yet , ' said the goose .
` Take a good handful of the herb with you , and let us go to your rooms .
We will collect all your money and clothes together , and then we will test the powers of the herb . '
So they went back to Jem 's rooms , and here he gathered together some fifty ducats he had saved , his clothes and shoes , and tied them all up in a bundle .
Then he plunged his face into the bunch of herbs , and drew in their perfume .
As he did so , all his limbs began to crack and stretch ; he felt his head rising above his shoulders ; he glanced down at his nose , and saw it grow smaller and smaller ; his chest and back grew flat , and his legs grew long .
The goose looked on in amazement .
` Oh , how big and how beautiful you are ! '
she cried .
` Thank heaven , you are quite changed . '
Jem folded his hands in thanks , as his heart swelled with gratitude .
But his joy did not make him forget all he owed to his friend Mimi . '
I owe you my life and my release , ' he said , ` for without you I should never have regained my natural shape , and , indeed , would soon have been beheaded .
I will now take you back to your father , who will certainly know how to disenchant you . '
The goose accepted his offer with joy , and they managed to slip out of the palace unnoticed by anyone .
They got through the journey without accident , and the wizard soon released his daughter , and loaded Jem with thanks and valuable presents .
He lost no time in hastening back to his native town , and his parents were very ready to recognise the handsome , well-made young man as their long-lost son .
With the money given him by the wizard he opened a shop , which prospered well , and he lived long and happily .
I must not forget to mention that much disturbance was caused in the palace by Jem 's sudden disappearance , for when the grand duke sent orders next day to behead the dwarf , if he had not found the necessary herbs , the dwarf was not to be found .
The prince hinted that the duke had allowed his cook to escape , and had therefore broken his word .
The matter ended in a great war between the two princes , which was known in history as the ` Herb War . '
After many battles and much loss of life , a peace was at last concluded , and this peace became known as the ` Pasty Peace , ' because at the banquet given in its honour the prince 's cook dished up the Queen of Pasties -- the Suzeraine -- and the grand duke declared it to be quite excellent .
THE NUNDA , EATER OF PEOPLE Once upon a time there lived a sultan who loved his garden dearly , and planted it with trees and flowers and fruits from all parts of the world .
He went to see them three times every day : first at seven o'clock , when he got up , then at three , and lastly at half-past five .
There was no plant and no vegetable which escaped his eye , but he lingered longest of all before his one date tree .
Now the sultan had seven sons .
Six of them he was proud of , for they were strong and manly , but the youngest he disliked , for he spent all his time among the women of the house .
The sultan had talked to him , and he paid no heed ; and he had beaten him , and he paid no heed ; and he had tied him up , and he paid no heed , till at last his father grew tired of trying to make him change his ways , and let him alone .
Time passed , and one day the sultan , to his great joy , saw signs of fruit on his date tree .
And he told his vizir , ` My date tree is bearing ; ' and he told the officers , ` My date tree is bearing ; ' and he told the judges , ` My date tree is bearing ; ' and he told all the rich men of the town .
He waited patiently for some days till the dates were nearly ripe , and then he called his six sons , and said : ` One of you must watch the date tree till the dates are ripe , for if it is not watched the slaves will steal them , and I shall not have any for another year . '
And the eldest son answered , ' I will go , father , ' and he went .
The first thing the youth did was to summon his slaves , and bid them beat drums all night under the date tree , for he feared to fall asleep .
So the slaves beat the drums , and the young man danced till four o'clock , and then it grew so cold he could dance no longer , and one of the slaves said to him : ` It is getting light ; the tree is safe ; lie down , master , and go to sleep . '
So he lay down and slept , and his slaves slept likewise .
A few minutes went by , and a bird flew down from a neighbouring thicket , and ate all the dates , without leaving a single one .
And when the tree was stripped bare , the bird went as it had come .
Soon after , one of the slaves woke up and looked for the dates , but there were no dates to see .
Then he ran to the young man and shook him , saying : ` Your father set you to watch the tree , and you have not watched , and the dates have all been eaten by a bird . '
The lad jumped up and ran to the tree to see for himself , but there was not a date anywhere .
And he cried aloud , ` What am I to say to my father ?
Shall I tell him that the dates have been stolen , or that a great rain fell and a great storm blew ?
But he will send me to gather them up and bring them to him , and there are none to bring !
Shall I tell him that Bedouins drove me away , and when I returned there were no dates ?
And he will answer , `` You had slaves , did they not fight with the Bedouins ? ''
It is the truth that will be best , and that will I tell him . '
Then he went straight to his father , and found him sitting in his verandah with his five sons round him ; and the lad bowed his head .
` Give me the news from the garden , ' said the sultan .
And the youth answered , ` The dates have all been eaten by some bird : there is not one left . '
The sultan was silent for a moment : then he asked , ` Where were you when the bird came ? '
The lad answered : ' I watched the date tree till the cocks were crowing and it was getting light ; then I lay down for a little , and I slept .
When I woke a slave was standing over me , and he said , `` There is not one date left on the tree ! ''
And I went to the date tree , and saw it was true ; and that is what I have to tell you . '
And the sultan replied , ' A son like you is only good for eating and sleeping .
I have no use for you .
Go your way , and when my date tree bears again , I will send another son ; perhaps he will watch better . '
So he waited many months , till the tree was covered with more dates than any tree had ever borne before .
When they were near ripening he sent one of his sons to the garden : saying , ` My son , I am longing to taste those dates : go and watch over them , for to-day 's sun will bring them to perfection . '
And the lad answered : ` My father , I am going now , and to-morrow , when the sun has passed the hour of seven , bid a slave come and gather the dates . '
` Good , ' said the sultan .
The youth went to the tree , and lay down and slept .
And about midnight he arose to look at the tree , and the dates were all there -- beautiful dates , swinging in bunches .
` Ah , my father will have a feast , indeed , ' thought he .
` What a fool my brother was not to take more heed !
Now he is in disgrace , and we know him no more .
Well , I will watch till the bird comes .
I should like to see what manner of bird it is . '
And he sat and read till the cocks crew and it grew light , and the dates were still on the tree .
` Oh my father will have his dates ; they are all safe now , ' he thought to himself . '
I will make myself comfortable against this tree , ' and he leaned against the trunk , and sleep came on him , and the bird flew down and ate all the dates .
When the sun rose , the head-man came and looked for the dates , and there were no dates .
And he woke the young man , and said to him , ` Look at the tree . '
And the young man looked , and there were no dates .
And his ears were stopped , and his legs trembled , and his tongue grew heavy at the thought of the sultan .
His slave became frightened as he looked at him , and asked , ` My master , what is it ? '
He answered , ' I have no pain anywhere , but I am ill everywhere .
My whole body is well , and my whole body is sick I fear my father , for did I not say to him , `` To-morrow at seven you shall taste the dates '' ?
And he will drive me away , as he drove away my brother !
I will go away myself , before he sends me . '
Then he got up and took a road that led straight past the palace , but he had not walked many steps before he met a man carrying a large silver dish , covered with a white cloth to cover the dates .
And the young man said , ` The dates are not ripe yet ; you must return to-morrow . '
And the slave went with him to the palace , where the sultan was sitting with his four sons .
` Good greeting , master ! '
said the youth .
And the sultan answered , ` Have you seen the man I sent ? ' '
I have , master ; but the dates are not yet ripe . '
But the sultan did not believe his words , and said ; ` This second year I have eaten no dates , because of my sons .
Go your ways , you are my son no longer ! '
And the sultan looked at the four sons that were left him , and promised rich gifts to whichever of them would bring him the dates from the tree .
But year by year passed , and he never got them .
One son tried to keep himself awake with playing cards ; another mounted a horse and rode round and round the tree , while the two others , whom their father as a last hope sent together , lit bonfires .
But whatever they did , the result was always the same .
Towards dawn they fell asleep , and the bird ate the dates on the tree .
The sixth year had come , and the dates on the tree were thicker than ever .
And the head-man went to the palace and told the sultan what he had seen .
But the sultan only shook his head , and said sadly , ` What is that to me ?
I have had seven sons , yet for five years a bird has devoured my dates ; and this year it will be the same as ever . '
Now the youngest son was sitting in the kitchen , as was his custom , when he heard his father say those words .
And he rose up , and went to his father , and knelt before him .
` Father , this year you shall eat dates , ' cried he .
` And on the tree are five great bunches , and each bunch I will give to a separate nation , for the nations in the town are five .
This time , I will watch the date tree myself . '
But his father and his mother laughed heartily , and thought his words idle talk .
One day , news was brought to the sultan that the dates were ripe , and he ordered one of his men to go and watch the tree .
His son , who happened to be standing by , heard the order , and he said : ` How is it that you have bidden a man to watch the tree , when I , your son , am left ? '
And his father answered , ` Ah , six were of no use , and where they failed , will you succeed ? '
But the boy replied : ` Have patience to-day , and let me go , and to-morrow you shall see whether I bring you dates or not . '
` Let the child go , Master , ' said his wife ; ` perhaps we shall eat the dates -- or perhaps we shall not -- but let him go . '
And the sultan answered : ' I do not refuse to let him go , but my heart distrusts him .
His brothers all promised fair , and what did they do ? '
But the boy entreated , saying , ` Father , if you and I and mother be alive to-morrow , you shall eat the dates . '
` Go then , ' said his father .
When the boy reached the garden , he told the slaves to leave him , and to return home themselves and sleep .
When he was alone , he laid himself down and slept fast till one o'clock , when he arose , and sat opposite the date tree .
Then he took some Indian corn out of one fold of his dress , and some sandy grit out of another .
And he chewed the corn till he felt he was growing sleepy , and then he put some grit into his mouth , and that kept him awake till the bird came .
It looked about at first without seeing him , and whispering to itself , ` There is no one here , ' fluttered lightly on to the tree and stretched out his beak for the dates .
Then the boy stole softly up , and caught it by the wing .
The bird turned and flew quickly away , but the boy never let go , not even when they soared high into the air .
` Son of Adam , ' the bird said when the tops of the mountains looked small below them , ` if you fall , you will be dead long before you reach the ground , so go your way , and let me go mine . '
But the boy answered , ` Wherever you go , I will go with you .
You can not get rid of me . ' '
I did not eat your dates , ' persisted the bird , ` and the day is dawning .
Leave me to go my way . '
But again the boy answered him : ` My six brothers are hateful to my father because you came and stole the dates , and to-day my father shall see you , and my brothers shall see you , and all the people of the town , great and small , shall see you .
And my father 's heart will rejoice . '
` Well , if you will not leave me , I will throw you off , ' said the bird .
So it flew up higher still -- so high that the earth shone like one of the other stars .
` How much of you will be left if you fall from here ? '
asked the bird .
` If I die , I die , ' said the boy , ` but I will not leave you . '
And the bird saw it was no use talking , and went down to the earth again .
` Here you are at home , so let me go my way , ' it begged once more ; ` or at least make a covenant with me . '
` What covenant ? '
said the boy .
` Save me from the sun , ' replied the bird , ` and I will save you from rain . '
` How can you do that , and how can I tell if I can trust you ? '
` Pull a feather from my tail , and put it in the fire , and if you want me I will come to you , wherever I am . '
And the boy answered , ` Well , I agree ; go your way . '
` Farewell , my friend .
When you call me , if it is from the depths of the sea , I will come . '
The lad watched the bird out of sight ; then he went straight to the date tree .
And when he saw the dates his heart was glad , and his body felt stronger and his eyes brighter than before .
And he laughed out loud with joy , and said to himself , ` This is MY luck , mine , Sit-in-the-kitchen !
Farewell , date tree , I am going to lie down .
What ate you will eat you no more . '
The sun was high in the sky before the head-man , whose business it was , came to look at the date tree , expecting to find it stripped of all its fruit , but when he saw the dates so thick that they almost hid the leaves he ran back to his house , and beat a big drum till everybody came running , and even the little children wanted to know what had happened .
` What is it ?
What is it , head-man ? '
cried they .
` Ah , it is not a son that the master has , but a lion !
This day Sit-in-the-kitchen has uncovered his face before his father ! '
` But how , head-man ? '
` To day the people may eat the dates . '
` Is it true , head-man ? '
` Oh yes , it is true , but let him sleep till each man has brought forth a present .
He who has fowls , let him take fowls ; he who has a goat , let him take a goat ; he who has rice , let him take rice . '
And the people did as he had said .
Then they took the drum , and went to the tree where the boy lay sleeping .
And they picked him up , and carried him away , with horns and clarionets and drums , with clappings of hands and shrieks of joy , straight to his father 's house .
When his father heard the noise and saw the baskets made of green leaves , brimming over with dates , and his son borne high on the necks of slaves , his heart leaped , and he said to himself ` To-day at last I shall eat dates . '
And he called his wife to see what her son had done , and ordered his soldiers to take the boy and bring him to his father .
` What news , my son ? '
said he .
` News ?
I have no news , except that if you will open your mouth you shall see what dates taste like . '
And he plucked a date , and put it into his father 's mouth .
` Ah !
You are indeed my son , ' cried the sultan .
` You do not take after those fools , those good-for-nothings .
But , tell me , what did you do with the bird , for it was you , and you only who watched for it ? '
` Yes , it was I who watched for it and who saw it .
And it will not come again , neither for its life , nor for your life , nor for the lives of your children . '
` Oh , once I had six sons , and now I have only one .
It is you , whom I called a fool , who have given me the dates : as for the others , I want none of them . '
But his wife rose up and went to him , and said , ` Master , do not , I pray you , reject them , ' and she entreated long , till the sultan granted her prayer , for she loved the six elder ones more than her last one .
So they all lived quietly at home , till the sultan 's cat went and caught a calf .
And the owner of the calf went and told the sultan , but he answered , ` The cat is mine , and the calf mine , ' and the man dared not complain further .
Two days after , the cat caught a cow , and the sultan was told , ` Master , the cat has caught a cow , ' but he only said , ` It was my cow and my cat . '
And the cat waited a few days , and then it caught a donkey , and they told the sultan , ` Master , the cat has caught a donkey , ' and he said , ` My cat and my donkey . '
Next it was a horse , and after that a camel , and when the sultan was told he said , ` You do n't like this cat , and want me to kill it .
And I shall not kill it .
Let it eat the camel : let it even eat a man . '
And it waited till the next day , and caught some one 's child .
And the sultan was told , ` The cat has caught a child . '
And he said , ` The cat is mine and the child mine . '
Then it caught a grown-up man .
After that the cat left the town and took up its abode in a thicket near the road .
So if any one passed , going for water , it devoured him .
If it saw a cow going to feed , it devoured him .
If it saw a goat , it devoured him .
Whatever went along that road the cat caught and ate .
Then the people went to the sultan in a body , and told him of all the misdeeds of that cat .
But he answered as before , ` The cat is mine and the people are mine . '
And no man dared kill the cat , which grew bolder and bolder , and at last came into the town to look for its prey .
One day , the sultan said to his six sons , ' I am going into the country , to see how the wheat is growing , and you shall come with me . '
They went on merrily along the road , till they came to a thicket , when out sprang the cat , and killed three of the sons .
` The cat !
The cat ! '
shrieked the soldiers who were with him .
And this time the sultan said : ` Seek for it and kill it .
It is no longer a cat , but a demon ! '
And the soldiers answered him , ` Did we not tell you , master , what the cat was doing , and did you not say , `` My cat and my people '' ? '
And he answered : ` True , I said it . '
Now the youngest son had not gone with the rest , but had stayed at home with his mother ; and when he heard that his brothers had been killed by the cat he said , ` Let me go , that it may slay me also . '
His mother entreated him not to leave her , but he would not listen , and he took his sword and a spear and some rice cakes , and went after the cat , which by this time had run of to a great distance .
The lad spent many days hunting the cat , which now bore the name of ` The Nunda , eater of people , ' but though he killed many wild animals he saw no trace of the enemy he was hunting for .
There was no beast , however fierce , that he was afraid of , till at last his father and mother begged him to give up the chase after the Nunda .
But he answered : ` What I have said , I can not take back .
If I am to die , then I die , but every day I must go and seek for the Nunda . '
And again his father offered him what he would , even the crown itself , but the boy would hear nothing , and went on his way .
Many times his slaves came and told him , ` We have seen footprints , and to-day we shall behold the Nunda . '
But the footprints never turned out to be those of the Nunda .
They wandered far through deserts and through forests , and at length came to the foot of a great hill .
And something in the boy 's soul whispered that here was the end of all their seeking , and to-day they would find the Nunda .
But before they began to climb the mountain the boy ordered his slaves to cook some rice , and they rubbed the stick to make a fire , and when the fire was kindled they cooked the rice and ate it .
Then they began their climb .
Suddenly , when they had almost reached the top , a slave who was on in front cried : ` Master !
Master ! '
And the boy pushed on to where the slave stood , and the slave said : ` Cast your eyes down to the foot of the mountain . '
And the boy looked , and his soul told him it was the Nunda .
And he crept down with his spear in his hand , and then he stopped and gazed below him .
` This MUST be the real Nunda , ' thought he .
` My mother told me its ears were small , and this one 's are small .
She told me it was broad and not long , and this is broad and not long .
She told me it had spots like a civet-cat , and this has spots like a civet-cat . '
Then he left the Nunda lying asleep at the foot of the mountain , and went back to his slaves .
` We will feast to-day , ' he said ; ` make cakes of batter , and bring water , ' and they ate and drank .
And when they had finished he bade them hide the rest of the food in the thicket , that if they slew the Nunda they might return and eat and sleep before going back to the town .
And the slaves did as he bade them .
It was now afternoon , and the lad said : ` It is time we went after the Nunda . '
And they went till they reached the bottom and came to a great forest which lay between them and the Nunda .
Here the lad stopped , and ordered every slave that wore two cloths to cast one away and tuck up the other between his legs .
` For , ' said he , ` the wood is not a little one .
Perhaps we may be caught by the thorns , or perhaps we may have to run before the Nunda , and the cloth might bind our legs , and cause us to fall before it . '
And they answered , ` Good , master , ' and did as he bade them .
Then they crawled on their hands and knees to where the Nunda lay asleep .
Noiselessly they crept along till they were quite close to it ; then , at a sign from the boy , they threw their spears .
The Nunda did not stir : the spears had done their work , but a great fear seized them all , and they ran away and climbed the mountain .
The sun was setting when they reached the top , and glad they were to take out the fruit and the cakes and the water which they had hidden away , and sit down and rest themselves .
And after they had eaten and were filled , they lay down and slept till morning .
When the dawn broke they rose up and cooked more rice , and drank more water .
After that they walked all round the back of the mountain to the place where they had left the Nunda , and they saw it stretched out where they had found it , stiff and dead .
And they took it up and carried it back to the town , singing as they went , ` He has killed the Nunda , the eater of people . '
And when his father heard the news , and that his son was come , and was bringing the Nunda with him , he felt that the man did not dwell on the earth whose joy was greater than his .
And the people bowed down to the boy and gave him presents , and loved him , because he had delivered them from the bondage of fear , and had slain the Nunda .
-LRB- Adapted from Swahili Tales . -RRB-
THE STORY OF HASSEBU Once upon a time there lived a poor woman who had only one child , and he was a little boy called Hassebu .
When he ceased to be a baby , and his mother thought it was time for him to learn to read , she sent him to school .
And , after he had done with school , he was put into a shop to learn how to make clothes , and did not learn ; and he was put to do silversmith 's work , and did not learn ; and whatsoever he was taught , he did not learn it .
His mother never wished him to do anything he did not like , so she said : ` Well , stay at home , my son . '
And he stayed at home , eating and sleeping .
One day the boy said to his mother : ` What was my father 's business ? '
` He was a very learned doctor , ' answered she .
` Where , then , are his books ? '
asked Hassebu .
` Many days have passed , and I have thought nothing of them .
But look inside and see if they are there . '
So Hassebu looked , and saw they were eaten by insects , all but one book , which he took away and read .
He was sitting at home one morning poring over the medicine book , when some neighbours came by and said to his mother : ` Give us this boy , that we may go together to cut wood . '
For wood-cutting was their trade , and they loaded several donkeys with the wood , and sold it in the town .
And his mother answered , ` Very well ; to-morrow I will buy him a donkey , and you can all go together . '
So the donkey was bought , and the neighbours came , and they worked hard all day , and in the evening they brought the wood back into the town , and sold it for a good sum of money .
And for six days they went and did the like , but on the seventh it rained , and the wood-cutters ran and hid in the rocks , all but Hassebu , who did not mind wetting , and stayed where he was .
While he was sitting in the place where the wood-cutters had left him , he took up a stone that lay near him , and idly dropped it on the ground .
It rang with a hollow sound , and he called to his companions , and said , ` Come here and listen ; the ground seems hollow ! '
` Knock again ! '
cried they .
And he knocked and listened .
` Let us dig , ' said the boy .
And they dug , and found a large pit like a well , filled with honey up to the brim .
` This is better than firewood , ' said they ; ` it will bring us more money .
And as you have found it , Hassebu , it is you who must go inside and dip out the honey and give to us , and we will take it to the town and sell it , and will divide the money with you . '
The following day each man brought every bowl and vessel he could find at home , and Hassebu filled them all with honey .
And this he did every day for three months .
At the end of that time the honey was very nearly finished , and there was only a little left , quite at the bottom , and that was very deep down , so deep that it seemed as if it must be right in the middle of the earth .
Seeing this , the men said to Hassebu , ` We will put a rope under your arms , and let you down , so that you may scrape up all the honey that is left , and when you have done we will lower the rope again , and you shall make it fast , and we will draw you up . '
` Very well , ' answered the boy , and he went down , and he scraped and scraped till there was not so much honey left as would cover the point of a needle .
` Now I am ready ! '
he cried ; but they consulted together and said , ` Let us leave him there inside the pit , and take his share of the money , and we will tell his mother , `` Your son was caught by a lion and carried off into the forest , and we tried to follow him , but could not . '' '
Then they arose and went into the town and told his mother as they had agreed , and she wept much and made her mourning for many months .
And when the men were dividing the money , one said , ` Let us send a little to our friend 's mother , ' and they sent some to her ; and every day one took her rice , and one oil ; one took her meat , and one took her cloth , every day .
It did not take long for Hassebu to find out that his companions had left him to die in the pit , but he had a brave heart , and hoped that he might be able to find a way out for himself .
So he at once began to explore the pit and found it ran back a long way underground .
And by night he slept , and by day he took a little of the honey he had gathered and ate it ; and so many days passed by .
One morning , while he was sitting on a rock having his breakfast , a large scorpion dropped down at his feet , and he took a stone and killed it , fearing it would sting him .
Then suddenly the thought darted into his head , ` This scorpion must have come from somewhere !
Perhaps there is a hole .
I will go and look for it , ' and he felt all round the walls of the pit till he found a very little hole in the roof of the pit , with a tiny glimmer of light at the far end of it .
Then his heart felt glad , and he took out his knife and dug and dug , till the little hole became a big one , and he could wriggle himself through .
And when he had got outside , he saw a large open space in front of him , and a path leading out of it .
He went along the path , on and on , till he reached a large house , with a golden door standing open .
Inside was a great hall , and in the middle of the hall a throne set with precious stones and a sofa spread with the softest cushions .
And he went in and lay down on it , and fell fast asleep , for he had wandered far .
By-and-by there was a sound of people coming through the courtyard , and the measured tramp of soldiers .
This was the King of the Snakes coming in state to his palace .
They entered the hall , but all stopped in surprise at finding a man lying on the king 's own bed .
The soldiers wished to kill him at once , but the king said , ` Leave him alone , put me on a chair , ' and the soldiers who were carrying him knelt on the floor , and he slid from their shoulders on to a chair .
When he was comfortably seated , he turned to his soldiers , and bade them wake the stranger gently .
And they woke him , and he sat up and saw many snakes all round him , and one of them very beautiful , decked in royal robes .
` Who are you ? '
asked Hassebu . '
I am the King of the Snakes , ' was the reply , ` and this is my palace .
And will you tell me who you are , and where you come from ? '
` My name is Hassebu , but whence I come I know not , nor whither I go . '
` Then stay for a little with me , ' said the king , and he bade his soldiers bring water from the spring and fruits from the forest , and to set them before the guest .
For some days Hassebu rested and feasted in the palace of the King of the Snakes , and then he began to long for his mother and his own country .
So he said to the King of the Snakes , ` Send me home , I pray . '
But the King of the Snakes answered , ` When you go home , you will do me evil ! ' '
I will do you no evil , ' replied Hassebu ; ` send me home , I pray . '
But the king said , ' I know it .
If I send you home , you will come back , and kill me .
I dare not do it . '
But Hassebu begged so hard that at last the king said , ` Swear that when you get home you will not go to bathe where many people are gathered . '
And Hassebu swore , and the king ordered his soldiers to take Hassebu in sight of his native city .
Then he went straight to his mother 's house , and the heart of his mother was glad .
Now the Sultan of the city was very ill , and all the wise men said that the only thing to cure him was the flesh of the King of the Snakes , and that the only man who could get it was a man with a strange mark on his chest .
So the Vizir had set people to watch at the public baths , to see if such a man came there .
For three days Hassebu remembered his promise to the King of the Snakes , and did not go near the baths ; then came a morning so hot he could hardly breathe , and he forgot all about it .
The moment he had slipped off his robe he was taken before the Vizir , who said to him , ` Lead us to the place where the King of the Snakes lives . ' '
I do not know it ! '
answered he , but the Vizir did not believe him , and had him bound and beaten till his back was all torn .
Then Hassebu cried , ` Loose me , that I may take you . '
They went together a long , long way , till they reached the palace of the King of the Snakes .
And Hassebu said to the King : ` It was not I : look at my back and you will see how they drove me to it . '
` Who has beaten you like this ? '
asked the King .
` It was the Vizir , ' replied Hassebu .
` Then I am already dead , ' said the King sadly , ` but you must carry me there yourself . '
So Hassebu carried him .
And on the way the King said , ` When I arrive , I shall be killed , and my flesh will be cooked .
But take some of the water that I am boiled in , and put it in a bottle and lay it on one side .
The Vizir will tell you to drink it , but be careful not to do so .
Then take some more of the water , and drink it , and you will become a great physician , and the third supply you will give to the Sultan .
And when the Vizir comes to you and asks , `` Did you drink what I gave you ? ''
you must answer , `` I did , and this is for you , '' and he will drink it and die !
and your soul will rest . '
And they went their way into the town , and all happened as the King of the Snakes had said .
And the Sultan loved Hassebu , who became a great physician , and cured many sick people .
But he was always sorry for the poor King of the Snakes .
-LRB- Adapted from Swahili Tales , -RRB- THE MAIDEN WITH THE WOODEN HELMET In a little village in the country of Japan there lived long , long ago a man and his wife .
For many years they were happy and prosperous , but bad times came , and at last nothing was left them but their daughter , who was as beautiful as the morning .
The neighbours were very kind , and would have done anything they could to help their poor friends , but the old couple felt that since everything had changed they would rather go elsewhere , so one day they set off to bury themselves in the country , taking their daughter with them .
Now the mother and daughter had plenty to do in keeping the house clean and looking after the garden , but the man would sit for hours together gazing straight in front of him , and thinking of the riches that once were his .
Each day he grew more and more wretched , till at length he took to his bed and never got up again .
His wife and daughter wept bitterly for his loss , and it was many months before they could take pleasure in anything .
Then one morning the mother suddenly looked at the girl , and found that she had grown still more lovely than before .
Once her heart would have been glad at the sight , but now that they two were alone in the world she feared some harm might come of it .
So , like a good mother , she tried to teach her daughter all she knew , and to bring her up to be always busy , so that she would never have time to think about herself .
And the girl was a good girl , and listened to all her mother 's lessons , and so the years passed away .
At last one wet spring the mother caught cold , and though in the beginning she did not pay much attention to it , she gradually grew more and more ill , and knew that she had not long to live .
Then she called her daughter and told her that very soon she would be alone in the world ; that she must take care of herself , as there would be no one to take care of her .
And because it was more difficult for beautiful women to pass unheeded than for others , she bade her fetch a wooden helmet out of the next room , and put it on her head , and pull it low down over her brows , so that nearly the whole of her face should lie in its shadow .
The girl did as she was bid , and her beauty was so hidden beneath the wooden cap , which covered up all her hair , that she might have gone through any crowd , and no one would have looked twice at her .
And when she saw this the heart of the mother was at rest , and she lay back in her bed and died .
The girl wept for many days , but by-and-by she felt that , being alone in the world , she must go and get work , for she had only herself to depend upon .
There was none to be got by staying where she was , so she made her clothes into a bundle , and walked over the hills till she reached the house of the man who owned the fields in that part of the country .
And she took service with him and laboured for him early and late , and every night when she went to bed she was at peace , for she had not forgotten one thing that she had promised her mother ; and , however hot the sun might be , she always kept the wooden helmet on her head , and the people gave her the nickname of Hatschihime .
In spite , however , of all her care the fame of her beauty spread abroad : many of the impudent young men that are always to be found in the world stole softly up behind her while she was at work , and tried to lift off the wooden helmet .
But the girl would have nothing to say to them , and only bade them be off ; then they began to talk to her , but she never answered them , and went on with what she was doing , though her wages were low and food not very plentiful .
Still she could manage to live , and that was enough .
One day her master happened to pass through the field where she was working , and was struck by her industry and stopped to watch her .
After a while he put one or two questions to her , and then led her into his house , and told her that henceforward her only duty should be to tend his sick wife .
From this time the girl felt as if all her troubles were ended , but the worst of them was yet to come .
Not very long after Hatschihime had become maid to the sick woman , the eldest son of the house returned home from Kioto , where he had been studying all sorts of things .
He was tired of the splendours of the town and its pleasures , and was glad enough to be back in the green country , among the peach-blossoms and sweet flowers .
Strolling about in the early morning , he caught sight of the girl with the odd wooden helmet on her head , and immediately he went to his mother to ask who she was , and where she came from , and why she wore that strange thing over her face .
His mother answered that it was a whim , and nobody could persuade her to lay it aside ; whereat the young man laughed , but kept his thoughts to himself .
One hot day , however , he happened to be going towards home when he caught sight of his mother 's waiting maid kneeling by a little stream that flowed through the garden , splashing some water over her face .
The helmet was pushed on one side , and as the youth stood watching from behind a tree he had a glimpse of the girl 's great beauty ; and he determined that no one else should be his wife .
But when he told his family of his resolve to marry her they were very angry , and made up all sorts of wicked stories about her .
However , they might have spared themselves the trouble , as he knew it was only idle talk . '
I have merely to remain firm , ' thought he , ` and they will have to give in . '
It was such a good match for the girl that it never occurred to anyone that she would refuse the young man , but so it was .
It would not be right , she felt , to make a quarrel in the house , and though in secret she wept bitterly , for a long while , nothing would make her change her mind .
At length one night her mother appeared to her in a dream , and bade her marry the young man .
So the next time he asked her -- as he did nearly every day -- to his surprise and joy she consented .
The parents then saw they had better make the best of a bad business , and set about making the grand preparations suitable to the occasion .
Of course the neighbours said a great many ill-natured things about the wooden helmet , but the bridegroom was too happy to care , and only laughed at them .
When everything was ready for the feast , and the bride was dressed in the most beautiful embroidered dress to be found in Japan , the maids took hold of the helmet to lift it off her head , so that they might do her hair in the latest fashion .
But the helmet would not come , and the harder they pulled , the faster it seemed to be , till the poor girl yelled with pain .
Hearing her cries the bridegroom ran in and soothed her , and declared that she should be married in the helmet , as she could not be married without .
Then the ceremonies began , and the bridal pair sat together , and the cup of wine was brought them , out of which they had to drink .
And when they had drunk it all , and the cup was empty , a wonderful thing happened .
The helmet suddenly burst with a loud noise , and fell in pieces on the ground ; and as they all turned to look they found the floor covered with precious stones which had fallen out of it .
But the guests were less astonished at the brilliancy of the diamonds than at the beauty of the bride , which was beyond anything they had ever seen or heard of .
The night was passed in singing and dancing , and then the bride and bridegroom went to their own house , where they lived till they died , and had many children , who were famous throughout Japan for their goodness and beauty .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE MONKEY AND THE JELLY-FISH Children must often have wondered why jelly-fishes have no shells , like so many of the creatures that are washed up every day on the beach .
In old times this was not so ; the jelly-fish had as hard a shell as any of them , but he lost it through his own fault , as may be seen in this story .
The sea-queen Otohime , whom you read of in the story of Uraschimatoro , grew suddenly very ill .
The swiftest messengers were sent hurrying to fetch the best doctors from every country under the sea , but it was all of no use ; the queen grew rapidly worse instead of better .
Everyone had almost given up hope , when one day a doctor arrived who was cleverer than the rest , and said that the only thing that would cure her was the liver of an ape .
Now apes do not dwell under the sea , so a council of the wisest heads in the nation was called to consider the question how a liver could be obtained .
At length it was decided that the turtle , whose prudence was well known , should swim to land and contrive to catch a living ape and bring him safely to the ocean kingdom .
It was easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to the turtle , but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it .
However he swam to a part of the coast that was covered with tall trees , where he thought the apes were likely to be ; for he was old , and had seen many things .
It was some time before he caught sight of any monkeys , and he often grew tired with watching for them , so that one hot day he fell fast asleep , in spite of all his efforts to keep awake .
By-and-by some apes , who had been peeping at him from the tops of the trees , where they had been carefully hidden from the turtle 's eyes , stole noiselessly down , and stood round staring at him , for they had never seen a turtle before , and did not know what to make of it .
At last one young monkey , bolder than the rest , stooped down and stroked the shining shell that the strange new creature wore on its back .
The movement , gentle though it was , woke the turtle .
With one sweep he seized the monkey 's hand in his mouth , and held it tight , in spite of every effort to pull it away .
The other apes , seeing that the turtle was not to be trifled with , ran off , leaving their young brother to his fate .
Then the turtle said to the monkey , ` If you will be quiet , and do what I tell you , I wo n't hurt you .
But you must get on my back and come with me . '
The monkey , seeing there was no help for it , did as he was bid ; indeed he could not have resisted , as his hand was still in the turtle 's mouth .
Delighted at having secured his prize , the turtle hastened back to the shore and plunged quickly into the water .
He swam faster than he had ever done before , and soon reached the royal palace .
Shouts of joy broke forth from the attendants when he was seen approaching , and some of them ran to tell the queen that the monkey was there , and that before long she would be as well as ever she was .
In fact , so great was their relief that they gave the monkey such a kind welcome , and were so anxious to make him happy and comfortable , that he soon forgot all the fears that had beset him as to his fate , and was generally quite at his ease , though every now and then a fit of home-sickness would come over him , and he would hide himself in some dark corner till it had passed away .
It was during one of these attacks of sadness that a jelly-fish happened to swim by .
At that time jelly-fishes had shells .
At the sight of the gay and lively monkey crouching under a tall rock , with his eyes closed and his head bent , the jelly-fish was filled with pity , and stopped , saying , ` Ah , poor fellow , no wonder you weep ; a few days more , and they will come and kill you and give your liver to the queen to eat . '
The monkey shrank back horrified at these words and asked the jelly-fish what crime he had committed that deserved death .
` Oh , none at all , ' replied the jelly-fish , ` but your liver is the only thing that will cure our queen , and how can we get at it without killing you ?
You had better submit to your fate , and make no noise about it , for though I pity you from my heart there is no way of helping you . '
Then he went away , leaving the ape cold with horror .
At first he felt as if his liver was already being taken from his body , but soon he began to wonder if there was no means of escaping this terrible death , and at length he invented a plan which he thought would do .
For a few days he pretended to be gay and happy as before , but when the sun went in , and rain fell in torrents , he wept and howled from dawn to dark , till the turtle , who was his head keeper , heard him , and came to see what was the matter .
Then the monkey told him that before he left home he had hung his liver out on a bush to dry , and if it was always going to rain like this it would become quite useless .
And the rogue made such a fuss and moaning that he would have melted a heart of stone , and nothing would content him but that somebody should carry him back to land and let him fetch his liver again .
The queen 's councillors were not the wisest of people , and they decided between them that the turtle should take the monkey back to his native land and allow him to get his liver off the bush , but desired the turtle not to lose sight of his charge for a single moment .
The monkey knew this , but trusted to his power of beguiling the turtle when the time came , and mounted on his back with feelings of joy , which he was , however , careful to conceal .
They set out , and in a few hours were wandering about the forest where the ape had first been caught , and when the monkey saw his family peering out from the tree tops , he swung himself up by the nearest branch , just managing to save his hind leg from being seized by the turtle .
He told them all the dreadful things that had happened to him , and gave a war cry which brought the rest of the tribe from the neighbouring hills .
At a word from him they rushed in a body to the unfortunate turtle , threw him on his back , and tore off the shield that covered his body .
Then with mocking words they hunted him to the shore , and into the sea , which he was only too thankful to reach alive .
Faint and exhausted he entered the queen 's palace for the cold of the water struck upon his naked body , and made him feel ill and miserable .
But wretched though he was , he had to appear before the queen 's advisers and tell them all that had befallen him , and how he had suffered the monkey to escape .
But , as sometimes happens , the turtle was allowed to go scot-free , and had his shell given back to him , and all the punishment fell on the poor jelly-fish , who was condemned by the queen to go shieldless for ever after .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE HEADLESS DWARFS There was once a minister who spent his whole time in trying to find a servant who would undertake to ring the church bells at midnight , in addition to all his other duties .
Of course it was not everyone who cared to get up in the middle of the night , when he had been working hard all day ; still , a good many had agreed to do it .
But the strange thing was that no sooner had the servant set forth to perform his task than he disappeared , as if the earth had swallowed him up .
No bells were rung , and no ringer ever came back .
The minister did his best to keep the matter secret , but it leaked out for all that , and the end of it was that no one would enter his service .
Indeed , there were even those who whispered that the minister himself had murdered the missing men !
It was to no purpose that Sunday after Sunday the minister gave out from his pulpit that double wages would be paid to anyone that would fulfil the sacred duty of ringing the bells of the church .
No one took the slightest notice of any offer he might make , and the poor man was in despair , when one day , as he was standing at his house door , a youth known in the village as Clever Hans came up to him . '
I am tired of living with a miser who will not give me enough to eat and drink , ' said he , ` and I am ready to do all you want . '
` Very good , my son , ' replied the minister , ` you shall have the chance of proving your courage this very night .
To-morrow we will settle what your wages are to be . '
Hans was quite content with this proposal , and went straight into the kitchen to begin his work , not knowing that his new master was quite as stingy as his old one .
In the hope that his presence might be a restraint upon them , the minister used to sit at the table during his servants ' meals , and would exhort them to drink much and often , thinking that they would not be able to eat as well , and beef was dearer than beer .
But in Hans he had met his match , and the minister soon found to his cost that in his case at any rate a full cup did not mean an empty plate .
About an hour before midnight , Hans entered the church and locked the door behind him , but what was his surprise when , in place of the darkness and silence he expected , he found the church brilliantly lighted , and a crowd of people sitting round a table playing cards .
Hans felt no fear at this strange sight , or was prudent enough to hide it if he did , and , going up to the table , sat down amongst the players .
One of them looked up and asked , ` My friend , what are you doing here ? '
and Hans gazed at him for a moment , then laughed and answered , ` Well , if anybody has a right to put that question , it is I !
And if I do not put it , it will certainly be wiser for you not to do so ! '
Then he picked up some cards , and played with the unknown men as if he had known them all his life .
The luck was on his side , and soon the money of the other gamblers found its way from their pockets into his .
On the stroke of midnight the cock crew , and in an instant lights , table , cards , and people all had vanished , and Hans was left alone .
He groped about for some time , till he found the staircase in the tower , and then began to feel his way up the steps .
On the first landing a glimmer of light came through a slit in the wall , and he saw a tiny man sitting there , without a head .
` Ho !
ho !
my little fellow , what are you doing there ? '
asked Hans , and , without waiting for an answer , gave him a kick which sent him flying down the stairs .
Then he climbed higher still , and finding as he went dumb watchers sitting on every landing , treated them as he had done the first .
At last he reached the top , and as he paused for a moment to look round him he saw another headless man cowering in the very bell itself , waiting till Hans should seize the bell-pull in order to strike him a blow with the clapper , which would soon have made an end of him .
` Stop , my little friend ! '
cried Hans .
` That is not part of the bargain !
Perhaps you saw how your comrades walked down stairs , and you are going after them .
But as you are in the highest place you shall make a more dignified exit , and follow them through the window ! '
With these words he began to climb the ladder , in order to take the little man from the bell and carry out his threat .
At this the dwarf cried out imploringly , ` Oh , brother !
spare my life , and I promise that neither I nor my comrades will ever trouble you any more .
I am small and weak , but who knows whether some day I shall not be able to reward you . '
` You wretched little shrimp , ' replied Hans , ' a great deal of good your gratitude is likely to do me !
But as I happen to be feeling in a cheerful mood to-night I will let you have your life .
But take care how you come across me again , or you may not escape so easily ! '
The headless man thanked him humbly , slid hastily down the bell rope , and ran down the steps of the tower as if he had left a fire behind him .
Then Hans began to ring lustily .
When the minister heard the sound of the midnight bells he wondered greatly , but rejoiced that he had at last found some one to whom he could trust this duty .
Hans rang the bells for some time , then went to the hay-loft , and fell fast asleep .
Now it was the custom of the minister to get up very early , and to go round to make sure that the men were all at their work .
This morning everyone was in his place except Hans , and no one knew anything about him .
Nine o'clock came , and no Hans , but when eleven struck the minister began to fear that he had vanished like the ringers who had gone before him .
When , however , the servants all gathered round the table for dinner , Hans at last made his appearance stretching himself and yawning .
` Where have you been all this time ? '
asked the minister .
` Asleep , ' said Hans .
` Asleep ! '
exclaimed the minister in astonishment .
` You do n't mean to tell me that you can go on sleeping till mid-day ? '
` That is exactly what I do mean , ' replied Hans .
` If one works in the night one must sleep in the day , just as if one works in the day one sleeps in the night .
If you can find somebody else to ring the bells at midnight I am ready to begin work at dawn ; but if you want me to ring them I must go on sleeping till noon at the very earliest . '
The minister tried to argue the point with him , but at length the following agreement was come to .
Hans was to give up the ringing , and was to work like the rest from sunrise to sunset , with the exception of an hour after breakfast and an hour after dinner , when he might go to sleep .
` But , of course , ' added the minister carelessly , ` it may happen now and then , especially in winter , when the days are short , that you will have to work a little longer , to get something finished . '
` Not at all ! '
answered Hans .
` Unless I were to leave off work earlier in summer , I will not do a stroke more than I have promised , and that is from dawn to dark ; so you know what you have to expect . '
A few weeks later the minister was asked to attend a christening in the neighbouring town .
He bade Hans come with him , but , as the town was only a few hours ' ride from where he lived , the minister was much surprised to see Hans come forth laden with a bag containing food .
` What are you taking that for ? '
asked the minister .
` We shall be there before dark . '
` Who knows ? '
replied Hans .
` Many things may happen to delay our journey , and I need not remind you of our contract that the moment the sun sets I cease to be your servant .
If we do n't reach the town while it is still daylight I shall leave you to shift for yourself . '
The minister thought he was joking , and made no further remark .
But when they had left the village behind them , and had ridden a few miles , they found that snow had fallen during the night , and had been blown by the wind into drifts .
This hindered their progress , and by the time they had entered the thick wood which lay between them and their destination the sun was already touching the tops of the trees .
The horses ploughed their way slowly through the deep soft snow and as they went Hans kept turning to look at the sun , which lay at their backs .
` Is there anything behind you ? '
asked the minister .
` Or what is it you are always turning round for ? ' '
I turn round because I have no eyes in the back of my neck , ' said Hans .
` Cease talking nonsense , ' replied the minister , ` and give all your mind to getting us to the town before nightfall . '
Hans did not answer , but rode on steadily , though every now and then he cast a glance over his shoulder .
When they arrived in the middle of the wood the sun sank altogether .
Then Hans reined up his horse , took his knapsack , and jumped out of the sledge .
` What are you doing ?
Are you mad ? '
asked the minister , but Hans answered quietly , ` The sun is set and my work is over , and I am going to camp here for the night . '
In vain the master prayed and threatened , and promised Hans a large reward if he would only drive him on .
The young man was not to be moved .
` Are you not ashamed to urge me to break my word ? '
said he .
` If you want to reach the town to-night you must go alone .
The hour of my freedom has struck , and I can not go with you . '
` My good Hans , ' entreated the minister , ' I really ought not to leave you here .
Consider what danger you would be in !
Yonder , as you see , a gallows is set up , and two evil-doers are hanging on it .
You could not possibly sleep with such ghastly neighbours . '
` Why not ? '
asked Hans .
` Those gallows birds hang high in the air , and my camp will be on the ground ; we shall have nothing to do with each other . '
As he spoke , he turned his back on the minister , and went his way .
There was no help for it , and the minister had to push on by himself , if he expected to arrive in time for the christening .
His friends were much surprised to see him drive up without a coachman , and thought some accident had happened .
But when he told them of his conversation with Hans they did not know which was the most foolish , master or man .
It would have mattered little to Hans had he known what they were saying or thinking of him .
He satisfied his hunger with the food he had in his knapsack , lit his pipe , pitched his tent under the boughs of a tree , wrapped himself in his furs , and went sound asleep .
After some hours , he was awakened by a sudden noise , and sat up and looked about him .
The moon was shining brightly above his head , and close by stood two headless dwarfs , talking angrily .
At the sight of Hans the little dwarfs cried out : ` It is he !
It is he ! '
and one of them stepping nearer exclaimed , ` Ah , my old friend !
it is a lucky chance that has brought us here .
My bones still ache from my fall down the steps of the tower .
I dare say you have not forgotten that night !
Now it is the turn of your bones .
Hi !
comrades , make haste !
make haste ! '
Like a swarm of midges , a host of tiny headless creatures seemed to spring straight out of the ground , and every one was armed with a club .
Although they were so small , yet there were such numbers of them and they struck so hard that even a strong man could do nothing against them .
Hans thought his last hour was come , when just as the fight was at the hottest another little dwarf arrived on the scene .
` Hold , comrades ! '
he shouted , turning to the attacking party .
` This man once did me a service , and I am his debtor .
When I was in his power he granted me my life .
And even if he did throw you downstairs , well , a warm bath soon cured your bruises , so you must just forgive him and go quietly home . '
The headless dwarfs listened to his words and disappeared as suddenly as they had come .
As soon as Hans recovered himself a little he looked at his rescuer , and saw he was the dwarf he had found seated in the church bell .
` Ah ! '
said the dwarf , seating himself quietly under the tree .
` You laughed at me when I told you that some day I might do you a good turn .
Now you see I was right , and perhaps you will learn for the future not to despise any creature , however small . ' '
I thank you from my heart , ' answered Hans .
` My bones are still sore from their blows , and had it not been for you I should indeed have fared badly . ' '
I have almost paid my debt , ' went on the little man , ` but as you have suffered already , I will do more , and give you a piece of information .
You need not remain any longer in the service of that stingy minister , but when you get home to-morrow go at once to the north corner of the church , and there you will find a large stone built into the wall , but not cemented like the rest .
The day after to-morrow the moon is full , and at midnight you must go to the spot and get the stone out of the wall with a pickaxe .
Under the stone lies a great treasure , which has been hidden there in time of war .
Besides church plate , you will find bags of money , which have been lying in this place for over a hundred years , and no one knows to whom it all belongs .
A third of this money you must give to the poor , but the rest you may keep for yourself . '
As he finished , the cocks in the village crowed , and the little man was nowhere to be seen .
Hans found that his limbs no longer pained him , and lay for some time thinking of the hidden treasure .
Towards morning he fell asleep .
The sun was high in the heavens when his master returned from the town .
` Hans , ' said he , ` what a fool you were not to come with me yesterday !
I was well feasted and entertained , and I have money in my pocket into the bargain , ' he went on , rattling some coins while he spoke , to make Hans understand how much he had lost .
` Ah , sir , ' replied Hans calmly , ` in order to have gained so much money you must have lain awake all night , but I have earned a hundred times that amount while I was sleeping soundly . '
` How did you manage that ? '
asked the minister eagerly , but Hans answered , ` It is only fools who boast of their farthings ; wise men take care to hide their crowns . '
They drove home , and Hans neglected none of his duties , but put up the horses and gave them their food before going to the church corner , where he found the loose stone , exactly in the place described by the dwarf .
Then he returned to his work .
The first night of the full moon , when the whole village was asleep , he stole out , armed with a pickaxe , and with much difficulty succeeded in dislodging the stone from its place .
Sure enough , there was the hole , and in the hole lay the treasure , exactly as the little man had said .
The following Sunday he handed over the third part to the village poor , and informed the minister that he wished to break his bond of service .
As , however , he did not claim any wages , the minister made no objections , but allowed him to do as he wished .
So Hans went his way , bought himself a large house , and married a young wife , and lived happily and prosperously to the end of his days .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE YOUNG MAN WHO WOULD HAVE HIS EYES OPENED Once upon a time there lived a youth who was never happy unless he was prying into something that other people knew nothing about .
After he had learned to understand the language of birds and beasts , he discovered accidentally that a great deal took place under cover of night which mortal eyes never saw .
From that moment he felt he could not rest till these hidden secrets were laid bare to him , and he spent his whole time wandering from one wizard to another , begging them to open his eyes , but found none to help him .
At length he reached an old magician called Mana , whose learning was greater than that of the rest , and who could tell him all he wanted to know .
But when the old man had listened attentively to him , he said , warningly : ` My son , do not follow after empty knowledge , which will not bring you happiness , but rather evil .
Much is hidden from the eyes of men , because did they know everything their hearts would no longer be at peace .
Knowledge kills joy , therefore think well what you are doing , or some day you will repent .
But if you will not take my advice , then truly I can show you the secrets of the night .
Only you will need more than a man 's courage to bear the sight . '
He stopped and looked at the young man , who nodded his head , and then the wizard continued , ` To-morrow night you must go to the place where , once in seven years , the serpent-king gives a great feast to his whole court .
In front of him stands a golden bowl filled with goats ' milk , and if you can manage to dip a piece of bread in this milk , and eat it before you are obliged to fly , you will understand all the secrets of the night that are hidden from other men .
It is lucky for you that the serpent-king 's feast happens to fall this year , otherwise you would have had long to wait for it .
But take care to be quick and bold , or it will be the worse for you . '
The young man thanked the wizard for his counsel , and went his way firmly resolved to carry out his purpose , even if he paid for it with his life ; and when night came he set out for a wide , lonely moor , where the serpent-king held his feast .
With sharpened eyes , he looked eagerly all round him , but could see nothing but a multitude of small hillocks , that lay motionless under the moonlight .
He crouched behind a bush for some time , till he felt that midnight could not be far off , when suddenly there arose in the middle of the moor a brilliant glow , as if a star was shining over one of the hillocks .
At the same moment all the hillocks began to writhe and to crawl , and from each one came hundreds of serpents and made straight for the glow , where they knew they should find their king .
When they reached the hillock where he dwelt , which was higher and broader than the rest , and had a bright light hanging over the top , they coiled themselves up and waited .
The whirr and confusion from all the serpent-houses were so great that the youth did not dare to advance one step , but remained where he was , watching intently all that went on ; but at last he began to take courage , and moved on softly step by step .
What he saw was creepier than creepy , and surpassed all he had ever dreamt of .
Thousands of snakes , big and little and of every colour , were gathered together in one great cluster round a huge serpent , whose body was as thick as a beam , and which had on its head a golden crown , from which the light sprang .
Their hissings and darting tongues so terrified the young man that his heart sank , and he felt he should never have courage to push on to certain death , when suddenly he caught sight of the golden bowl in front of the serpent-king , and knew that if he lost this chance it would never come back .
So , with his hair standing on end and his blood frozen in his veins , he crept forwards .
Oh !
what a noise and a whirr rose afresh among the serpents .
Thousands of heads were reared , and tongues were stretched out to sting the intruder to death , but happily for him their bodies were so closely entwined one in the other that they could not disentangle themselves quickly .
Like lightning he seized a bit of bread , dipped it in the bowl , and put it in his mouth , then dashed away as if fire was pursuing him .
On he flew as if a whole army of foes were at his heels , and he seemed to hear the noise of their approach growing nearer and nearer .
At length his breath failed him , and he threw himself almost senseless on the turf .
While he lay there dreadful dreams haunted him .
He thought that the serpent-king with the fiery crown had twined himself round him , and was crushing out his life .
With a loud shriek he sprang up to do battle with his enemy , when he saw that it was rays of the sun which had wakened him .
He rubbed his eyes and looked all round , but nothing could he see of the foes of the past night , and the moor where he had run into such danger must be at least a mile away .
But it was no dream that he had run hard and far , or that he had drunk of the magic goats ' milk .
And when he felt his limbs , and found them whole , his joy was great that he had come through such perils with a sound skin .
After the fatigues and terrors of the night , he lay still till mid-day , but he made up his mind he would go that very evening into the forest to try what the goats ' milk could really do for him , and if he would now be able to understand all that had been a mystery to him .
And once in the forest his doubts were set at rest , for he saw what no mortal eyes had ever seen before .
Beneath the trees were golden pavilions , with flags of silver all brightly lighted up .
He was still wondering why the pavilions were there , when a noise was heard among the trees , as if the wind had suddenly got up , and on all sides beautiful maidens stepped from the trees into the bright light of the moon .
These were the wood-nymphs , daughters of the earth-mother , who came every night to hold their dances , in the forest .
The young man , watching from his hiding place , wished he had a hundred eyes in his head , for two were not nearly enough for the sight before him , the dances lasting till the first streaks of dawn .
Then a silvery veil seemed to be drawn over the ladies , and they vanished from sight .
But the young man remained where he was till the sun was high in the heavens , and then went home .
He felt that day to be endless , and counted the minutes till night should come , and he might return to the forest .
But when at last he got there he found neither pavilions nor nymphs , and though he went back many nights after he never saw them again .
Still , he thought about them night and day , and ceased to care about anything else in the world , and was sick to the end of his life with longing for that beautiful vision .
And that was the way he learned that the wizard had spoken truly when he said , ` Blindness is man 's highest good . '
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE BOYS WITH THE GOLDEN STARS Once upon a time what happened did happen : and if it had not happened , you would never have heard this story .
Well , once upon a time there lived an emperor who had half a world all to himself to rule over , and in this world dwelt an old herd and his wife and their three daughters , Anna , Stana , and Laptitza .
Anna , the eldest , was so beautiful that when she took the sheep to pasture they forgot to eat as long as she was walking with them .
Stana , the second , was so beautiful that when she was driving the flock the wolves protected the sheep .
But Laptitza , the youngest , with a skin as white as the foam on the milk , and with hair as soft as the finest lamb 's wool , was as beautiful as both her sisters put together -- as beautiful as she alone could be .
One summer day , when the rays of the sun were pouring down on the earth , the three sisters went to the wood on the outskirts of the mountain to pick strawberries .
As they were looking about to find where the largest berries grew they heard the tramp of horses approaching , so loud that you would have thought a whole army was riding by .
But it was only the emperor going to hunt with his friends and attendants .
They were all fine handsome young men , who sat their horses as if they were part of them , but the finest and handsomest of all was the young emperor himself .
As they drew near the three sisters , and marked their beauty , they checked their horses and rode slowly by .
` Listen , sisters ! '
said Anna , as they passed on .
` If one of those young men should make me his wife , I would bake him a loaf of bread which should keep him young and brave for ever . '
` And if I , ' said Stana , ` should be the one chosen , I would weave my husband a shirt which will keep him unscathed when he fights with dragons ; when he goes through water he will never even be wet ; or if through fire , it will not scorch him . '
` And I , ' said Laptitza , ` will give the man who chooses me two boys , twins , each with a golden star on his forehead , as bright as those in the sky . '
And though they spoke low the young men heard , and turned their horses ' heads . '
I take you at your word , and mine shall you be , most lovely of empresses ! '
cried the emperor , and swung Laptitza and her strawberries on the horse before him .
` And I will have you , ' ` And I you , ' exclaimed two of his friends , and they all rode back to the palace together .
The following morning the marriage ceremony took place , and for three days and three nights there was nothing but feasting over the whole kingdom .
And when the rejoicings were over the news was in everybody 's mouth that Anna had sent for corn , and had made the loaf of which she had spoken at the strawberry beds .
And then more days and nights passed , and this rumour was succeeded by another one -- that Stana had procured some flax , and had dried it , and combed it , and spun it into linen , and sewed it herself into the shirt of which she had spoken over the strawberry beds .
Now the emperor had a stepmother , and she had a daughter by her first husband , who lived with her in the palace .
The girl 's mother had always believed that her daughter would be empress , and not the ` Milkwhite Maiden , ' the child of a mere shepherd .
So she hated the girl with all her heart , and only bided her time to do her ill .
But she could do nothing as long as the emperor remained with his wife night and day , and she began to wonder what she could do to get him away from her .
At last , when everything else had failed , she managed to make her brother , who was king of the neighbouring country , declare war against the emperor , and besiege some of the frontier towns with a large army .
This time her scheme was successful .
The young emperor sprang up in wrath the moment he heard the news , and vowed that nothing , not even his wife , should hinder his giving them battle .
And hastily assembling whatever soldiers happened to be at hand he set off at once to meet the enemy .
The other king had not reckoned on the swiftness of his movements , and was not ready to receive him .
The emperor fell on him when he was off his guard , and routed his army completely .
Then when victory was won , and the terms of peace hastily drawn up , he rode home as fast as his horse would carry him , and reached the palace on the third day .
But early that morning , when the stars were growing pale in the sky , two little boys with golden hair and stars on their foreheads were born to Laptitza .
And the stepmother , who was watching , took them away , and dug a hole in the corner of the palace , under the windows of the emperor , and put them in it , while in their stead she placed two little puppies .
The emperor came into the palace , and when they told him the news he went straight to Laptitza 's room .
No words were needed ; he saw with his own eyes that Laptitza had not kept the promise she had made at the strawberry beds , and , though it nearly broke his heart , he must give orders for her punishment .
So he went out sadly and told his guards that the empress was to be buried in the earth up to her neck , so that everyone might know what would happen to those who dared to deceive the emperor .
Not many days after , the stepmother 's wish was fulfilled .
The emperor took her daughter to wife , and again the rejoicings lasted for three days and three nights .
Let us now see what happened to the two little boys .
The poor little babies had found no rest even in their graves .
In the place where they had been buried there sprang up two beautiful young aspens , and the stepmother , who hated the sight of the trees , which reminded her of her crime , gave orders that they should be uprooted .
But the emperor heard of it , and forbade the trees to be touched , saying , ` Let them alone ; I like to see them there !
They are the finest aspens I have ever beheld ! '
And the aspens grew as no aspens had ever grown before .
In each day they added a year 's growth , and each night they added a year 's growth , and at dawn , when the stars faded out of the sky , they grew three years ' growth in the twinkling of an eye , and their boughs swept across the palace windows .
And when the wind moved them softly , the emperor would sit and listen to them all the day long .
The stepmother knew what it all meant , and her mind never ceased from trying to invent some way of destroying the trees .
It was not an easy thing , but a woman 's will can press milk out of a stone , and her cunning will overcome heroes .
What craft will not do soft words may attain , and if these do not succeed there still remains the resource of tears .
One morning the empress sat on the edge of her husband 's bed , and began to coax him with all sorts of pretty ways .
It was some time before the bait took , but at length -- even emperors are only men !
` Well , well , ' he said at last , ` have your way and cut down the trees ; but out of one they shall make a bed for me , and out of the other , one for you ! '
And with this the empress was forced to be content .
The aspens were cut down next morning , and before night the new bed had been placed in the emperor 's room .
Now when the emperor lay down in it he seemed as if he had grown a hundred times heavier than usual , yet he felt a kind of calm that was quite new to him .
But the empress felt as if she was lying on thorns and nettles , and could not close her eyes .
When the emperor was fast asleep , the bed began to crack loudly , and to the empress each crack had a meaning .
She felt as if she were listening to a language which no one but herself could understand .
` Is it too heavy for you , little brother ? '
asked one of the beds .
` Oh , no , it is not heavy at all , ' answered the bed in which the emperor was sleeping . '
I feel nothing but joy now that my beloved father rests over me . '
` It is very heavy for me ! '
said the other bed , ` for on me lies an evil soul . '
And so they talked on till the morning , the empress listening all the while .
By daybreak the empress had determined how to get rid of the beds .
She would have two others made exactly like them , and when the emperor had gone hunting they should be placed in his room .
This was done and the aspen beds were burnt in a large fire , till only a little heap of ashes was left .
Yet while they were burning the empress seemed to hear the same words , which she alone could understand .
Then she stooped and gathered up the ashes , and scattered them to the four winds , so that they might blow over fresh lands and fresh seas , and nothing remain of them .
But she had not seen that where the fire burnt brightest two sparks flew up , and , after floating in the air for a few moments , fell down into the great river that flows through the heart of the country .
Here the sparks had turned into two little fishes with golden scales , and one was so exactly like the other that everyone could tell at the first glance that they must be twins .
Early one morning the emperor 's fishermen went down to the river to get some fish for their master 's breakfast , and cast their nets into the stream .
As the last star twinkled out of the sky they drew them in , and among the multitude of fishes lay two with scales of gold , such as no man had ever looked on .
They all gathered round and wondered , and after some talk they decided that they would take the little fishes alive as they were , and give them as a present to the emperor .
` Do not take us there , for that is whence we came , and yonder lies our destruction , ' said one of the fishes .
` But what are we to do with you ? '
asked the fisherman .
` Go and collect all the dew that lies on the leaves , and let us swim in it .
Then lay us in the sun , and do not come near us till the sun 's rays shall have dried off the dew , ' answered the other fish .
The fisherman did as they told him -- gathered the dew from the leaves and let them swim in it , then put them to lie in the sun till the dew should be all dried up .
And when he came back , what do you think he saw ?
Why , two boys , two beautiful young princes , with hair as golden as the stars on their foreheads , and each so like the other , that at the first glance every one would have known them for twins .
The boys grew fast .
In every day they grew a year 's growth , and in every night another year 's growth , but at dawn , when the stars were fading , they grew three years ' growth in the twinkling of an eye .
And they grew in other things besides height , too .
Thrice in age , and thrice in wisdom , and thrice in knowledge .
And when three days and three nights had passed they were twelve years in age , twenty-four in strength , and thirty-six in wisdom .
` Now take us to our father , ' said they .
So the fisherman gave them each a lambskin cap which half covered their faces , and completely hid their golden hair and the stars on their foreheads , and led them to the court .
By the time they arrived there it was midday , and the fisherman and his charges went up to an official who was standing about .
` We wish to speak with the emperor , ' said one of the boys .
` You must wait until he has finished his dinner , ' replied the porter .
` No , while he is eating it , ' said the second boy , stepping across the threshold .
The attendants all ran forward to thrust such impudent youngsters outside the palace , but the boys slipped through their fingers like quicksilver , and entered a large hall , where the emperor was dining , surrounded by his whole court .
` We desire to enter , ' said one of the princes sharply to a servant who stood near the door .
` That is quite impossible , ' replied the servant .
` Is it ?
let us see ! '
said the second prince , pushing the servants to right and left .
But the servants were many , and the princes only two .
There was the noise of a struggle , which reached the emperor 's ears .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he angrily .
The princes stopped at the sound of their father 's voice .
` Two boys who want to force their way in , ' replied one of the servants , approaching the emperor .
` To FORCE their way in ?
Who dares to use force in my palace ?
What boys are they ? '
said the emperor all in one breath .
` We know not , O mighty emperor , ' answered the servant , ` but they must surely be akin to you , for they have the strength of lions , and have scattered the guards at the gate .
And they are as proud as they are strong , for they will not take their caps from their heads . '
The emperor , as he listened , grew red with anger .
` Thrust them out , ' cried he .
` Set the dogs after them . '
` Leave us alone , and we will go quietly , ' said the princes , and stepped backwards , weeping silently at the harsh words .
They had almost reached the gates when a servant ran up to them .
` The emperor commands you to return , ' panted he : ` the empress wishes to see you . '
The princes thought a moment : then they went back the way they had come , and walked straight up to the emperor , their caps still on their heads .
He sat at the top of a long table covered with flowers and filled with guests .
And beside him sat the empress , supported by twelve cushions .
When the princes entered one of the cushions fell down , and there remained only eleven .
` Take off your caps , ' said one of the courtiers . '
A covered head is among men a sign of honour .
We wish to seem what we are . '
` Never mind , ' said the emperor , whose anger had dropped before the silvery tones of the boy 's voice .
` Stay as you are , but tell me WHO you are !
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
` We are twins , two shoots from one stem , which has been broken , and half lies in the ground and half sits at the head of this table .
We have travelled a long way , we have spoken in the rustle of the wind , have whispered in the wood , we have sung in the waters , but now we wish to tell you a story which you know without knowing it , in the speech of men . '
And a second cushion fell down .
` Let them take their silliness home , ' said the empress .
` Oh , no , let them go on , ' said the emperor .
` You wished to see them , but I wish to hear them .
Go on , boys , sing me the story . '
The empress was silent , but the princes began to sing the story of their lives .
` There was once an emperor , ' began they , and the third cushion fell down .
When they reached the warlike expedition of the emperor three of the cushions fell down at once .
And when the tale was finished there were no more cushions under the empress , but the moment that they lifted their caps , and showed their golden hair and the golden stars , the eyes of the emperor and of all his guests were bent on them , and they could hardly bear the power of so many glances .
And there happened in the end what should have happened in the beginning .
Laptitza sat next her husband at the top of the table .
The stepmother 's daughter became the meanest sewing maid in the palace , the stepmother was tied to a wild horse , and every one knew and has never forgotten that whoever has a mind turned to wickedness is sure to end badly .
-LRB- Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FROG Once upon a time there was a woman who had three sons .
Though they were peasants they were well off , for the soil on which they lived was fruitful , and yielded rich crops .
One day they all three told their mother they meant to get married .
To which their mother replied : ` Do as you like , but see that you choose good housewives , who will look carefully after your affairs ; and , to make certain of this , take with you these three skeins of flax , and give it to them to spin .
Whoever spins the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
Now the two eldest sons had already chosen their wives ; so they took the flax from their mother , and carried it off with them , to have it spun as she had said .
But the youngest son was puzzled what to do with his skein , as he knew no girl -LRB- never having spoken to any -RRB- to whom he could give it to be spun .
He wandered hither and thither , asking the girls that he met if they would undertake the task for him , but at the sight of the flax they laughed in his face and mocked at him .
Then in despair he left their villages , and went out into the country , and , seating himself on the bank of a pond began to cry bitterly .
Suddenly there was a noise close beside him , and a frog jumped out of the water on to the bank and asked him why he was crying .
The youth told her of his trouble , and how his brothers would bring home linen spun for them by their promised wives , but that no one would spin his thread .
Then the frog answered : ` Do not weep on that account ; give me the thread , and I will spin it for you . '
And , having said this , she took it out of his hand , and flopped back into the water , and the youth went back , not knowing what would happen next .
In a short time the two elder brothers came home , and their mother asked to see the linen which had been woven out of the skeins of flax she had given them .
They all three left the room ; and in a few minutes the two eldest returned , bringing with them the linen that had been spun by their chosen wives .
But the youngest brother was greatly troubled , for he had nothing to show for the skein of flax that had been given to him .
Sadly he betook himself to the pond , and sitting down on the bank , began to weep .
Flop !
and the frog appeared out of the water close beside him .
` Take this , ' she said ; ` here is the linen that I have spun for you . '
You may imagine how delighted the youth was .
She put the linen into his hands , and he took it straight back to his mother , who was so pleased with it that she declared she had never seen linen so beautifully spun , and that it was far finer and whiter than the webs that the two elder brothers had brought home .
Then she turned to her sons and said : ` But this is not enough , my sons , I must have another proof as to what sort of wives you have chosen .
In the house there are three puppies .
Each of you take one , and give it to the woman whom you mean to bring home as your wife .
She must train it and bring it up .
Whichever dog turns out the best , its mistress will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out on their different ways , each taking a puppy with him .
The youngest , not knowing where to go , returned to the pond , sat down once more on the bank , and began to weep .
Flop !
and close beside him , he saw the frog .
` Why are you weeping ? '
she said .
Then he told her his difficulty , and that he did not know to whom he should take the puppy .
` Give it to me , ' she said , ` and I will bring it up for you . '
And , seeing that the youth hesitated , she took the little creature out of his arms , and disappeared with it into the pond .
The weeks and months passed , till one day the mother said she would like to see how the dogs had been trained by her future daughters-in-law .
The two eldest sons departed , and returned shortly , leading with them two great mastiffs , who growled so fiercely , and looked so savage , that the mere sight of them made the mother tremble with fear .
The youngest son , as was his custom , went to the pond , and called on the frog to come to his rescue .
In a minute she was at his side , bringing with her the most lovely little dog , which she put into his arms .
It sat up and begged with its paws , and went through the prettiest tricks , and was almost human in the way it understood and did what it was told .
In high spirits the youth carried it off to his mother .
As soon as she saw it , she exclaimed : ` This is the most beautiful little dog I have ever seen .
You are indeed fortunate , my son ; you have won a pearl of a wife . '
Then , turning to the others , she said : ` Here are three shirts ; take them to your chosen wives .
Whoever sews the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out once more ; and again , this time , the work of the frog was much the best and the neatest .
This time the mother said : ` Now that I am content with the tests I gave , I want you to go and fetch home your brides , and I will prepare the wedding-feast . '
You may imagine what the youngest brother felt on hearing these words .
Whence was he to fetch a bride ?
Would the frog be able to help him in this new difficulty ?
With bowed head , and feeling very sad , he sat down on the edge of the pond .
Flop !
and once more the faithful frog was beside him .
` What is troubling you so much ? '
she asked him , and then the youth told her everything .
` Will you take me for a wife ? '
she asked .
` What should I do with you as a wife , ' he replied , wondering at her strange proposal .
` Once more , will you have me or will you not ? '
she said . '
I will neither have you , nor will I refuse you , ' said he .
At this the frog disappeared ; and the next minute the youth beheld a lovely little chariot , drawn by two tiny ponies , standing on the road .
The frog was holding the carriage door open for him to step in .
` Come with me , ' she said .
And he got up and followed her into the chariot .
As they drove along the road they met three witches ; the first of them was blind , the second was hunchbacked , and the third had a large thorn in her throat .
When the three witches beheld the chariot , with the frog seated pompously among the cushions , they broke into such fits of laughter that the eyelids of the blind one burst open , and she recovered her sight ; the hunchback rolled about on the ground in merriment till her back became straight , and in a roar of laughter the thorn fell out of the throat of the third witch .
Their first thought was to reward the frog , who had unconsciously been the means of curing them of their misfortunes .
The first witch waved her magic wand over the frog , and changed her into the loveliest girl that had ever been seen .
The second witch waved the wand over the tiny chariot and ponies , and they were turned into a beautiful large carriage with prancing horses , and a coachman on the seat .
The third witch gave the girl a magic purse , filled with money .
Having done this , the witches disappeared , and the youth with his lovely bride drove to his mother 's home .
Great was the delight of the mother at her youngest son 's good fortune .
A beautiful house was built for them ; she was the favourite daughter-in-law ; everything went well with them , and they lived happily ever after .
-LRB- From the Italian . -RRB-
THE PRINCESS WHO WAS HIDDEN UNDERGROUND Once there was a king who had great riches , which , when he died , he divided among his three sons .
The two eldest of these lived in rioting and feasting , and thus wasted and squandered their father 's wealth till nothing remained , and they found themselves in want and misery .
The youngest of the three sons , on the contrary , made good use of his portion .
He married a wife and soon they had a most beautiful daughter , for whom , when she was grown up , he caused a great palace to be built underground , and then killed the architect who had built it .
Next he shut up his daughter inside , and then sent heralds all over the world to make known that he who should find the king 's daughter should have her to wife .
If he were not capable of finding her then he must die .
Many young men sought to discover her , but all perished in the attempt .
After many had met their death thus , there came a young man , beautiful to behold , and as clever as he was beautiful , who had a great desire to attempt the enterprise .
First he went to a herdsman , and begged him to hide him in a sheepskin , which had a golden fleece , and in this disguise to take him to the king .
The shepherd let himself be persuaded so to do , took a skin having a golden fleece , sewed the young man in it , putting in also food and drink , and so brought him before the king .
When the latter saw the golden lamb , he asked the herd : ` Will you sell me this lamb ? '
But the herd answered : ` No , oh king ; I will not sell it ; but if you find pleasure therein , I will be willing to oblige you , and I will lend it to you , free of charge , for three days , after that you must give it back to me . '
This the king agreed to do , and he arose and took the lamb to his daughter .
When he had led it into her palace , and through many rooms , he came to a shut door .
Then he called ` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth ! '
and the door opened of itself .
After that they went through many more rooms , and came to another closed door .
Again the king called out : ` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth ! '
and this door opened like the other , and they came into the apartment where the princess dwelt , the floor , walls , and roof of which were all of silver .
When the king had embraced the princess , he gave her the lamb , to her great joy .
She stroked it , caressed it , and played with it .
After a while the lamb got loose , which , when the princess saw , she said : ` See , father , the lamb is free . '
But the king answered : ` It is only a lamb , why should it not be free ? '
Then he left the lamb with the princess , and went his way .
In the night , however , the young man threw off the skin .
When the princess saw how beautiful he was , she fell in love with him , and asked him : ` Why did you come here disguised in a sheepskin like that ? '
Then he answered : ` When I saw how many people sought you , and could not find you , and lost their lives in so doing , I invented this trick , and so I am come safely to you . '
The princess exclaimed : ` You have done well so to do ; but you must know that your wager is not yet won , for my father will change me and my maidens into ducks , and will ask you , `` Which of these ducks is the princess ? ''
Then I will turn my head back , and with my bill will clean my wings , so that you may know me . '
When they had spent three days together , chatting and caressing one another , the herd came back to the king , and demanded his lamb .
Then the king went to his daughter to bring it away , which troubled the princess very much , for she said they had played so nicely together .
But the king said : ' I can not leave it with you , my daughter , for it is only lent to me . '
So he took it away with him , and gave it back to the shepherd .
Then the young man threw the skin from off him , and went to the king , saying : ` Sire , I am persuaded I can find your daughter . '
When the king saw how handsome he was , he said : ` My lad , I have pity on your youth .
This enterprise has already cost the lives of many , and will certainly be your death as well . '
But the young man answered , ' I accept your conditions , oh king ; I will either find her or lose my head . '
Thereupon he went before the king , who followed after him , till they came to the great door .
Then the young man said to the king : ` Speak the words that it may open . '
And the king answered : ` What are the words ?
Shall I say something like this : `` Shut ; shut ; shut '' ? '
` No , ' said he ; ` say `` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth . '' '
When the king had so said , the door opened of itself , and they went in , while the king gnawed his moustache in anger .
Then they came to the second door , where the same thing happened as at the first , and they went in and found the princess .
Then spoke the king and said : ` Yes , truly , you have found the princess .
Now I will turn her as well as all her maidens into ducks , and if you can guess which of these ducks is my daughter , then you shall have her to wife . '
And immediately the king changed all the maidens into ducks , and he drove them before the young man , and said : ` Now show me which is my daughter . '
Then the princess , according to their understanding , began to clean her wings with her bill , and the lad said : ` She who cleans her wings is the princess . '
Now the king could do nothing more but give her to the young man to wife , and they lived together in great joy and happiness .
-LRB- From the German . -RRB-
THE GIRL WHO PRETENDED TO BE A BOY Once upon a time there lived an emperor who was a great conqueror , and reigned over more countries than anyone in the world .
And whenever he subdued a fresh kingdom , he only granted peace on condition that the king should deliver him one of his sons for ten years ' service .
Now on the borders of his kingdom lay a country whose emperor was as brave as his neighbour , and as long as he was young he was the victor in every war .
But as years passed away , his head grew weary of making plans of campaign , and his people wanted to stay at home and till their fields , and at last he too felt that he must do homage to the other emperor .
One thing , however , held him back from this step which day by day he saw more clearly was the only one possible .
His new overlord would demand the service of one of his sons .
And the old emperor had no son ; only three daughters .
Look on which side he would , nothing but ruin seemed to lie before him , and he became so gloomy , that his daughters were frightened , and did everything they could think of to cheer him up , but all to no purpose .
At length one day when they were at dinner , the eldest of the three summoned up all her courage and said to her father : ` What secret grief is troubling you ?
Are your subjects discontented ?
or have we given you cause for displeasure ?
To smooth away your wrinkles , we would gladly shed our blood , for our lives are bound up in yours ; and this you know . '
` My daughter , ' answered the emperor , ` what you say is true .
Never have you given me one moment 's pain .
Yet now you can not help me .
Ah !
why is not one of you a boy ! ' '
I do n't understand , ' she answered in surprise .
` Tell us what is wrong : and though we are not boys , we are not quite useless ! '
` But what can you do , my dear children ?
Spin , sew , and weave -- that is all your learning .
Only a warrior can deliver me now , a young giant who is strong to wield the battle-axe : whose sword deals deadly blows . '
` But WHY do you need a son so much at present ?
Tell us all about it !
It will not make matters worse if we know ! '
` Listen then , my daughters , and learn the reason of my sorrow .
You have heard that as long as I was young no man ever brought an army against me without it costing him dear .
But the years have chilled my blood and drunk my strength .
And now the deer can roam the forest , my arrows will never pierce his heart ; strange soldiers will set fire to my houses and water their horses at my wells , and my arm can not hinder them .
No , my day is past , and the time has come when I too must bow my head under the yoke of my foe !
But who is to give him the ten years ' service that is part of the price which the vanquished must pay ? ' '
I will , ' cried the eldest girl , springing to her feet .
But her father only shook his head sadly .
` Never will I bring shame upon you , ' urged the girl .
` Let me go .
Am I not a princess , and the daughter of an emperor ? '
` Go then ! '
he said .
The brave girl 's heart almost stopped beating from joy , as she set about her preparations .
She was not still for a single moment , but danced about the house , turning chests and wardrobes upside down .
She set aside enough things for a whole year -- dresses embroidered with gold and precious stones , and a great store of provisions .
And she chose the most spirited horse in the stable , with eyes of flame , and a coat of shining silver .
When her father saw her mounted and curvetting about the court , he gave her much wise advice , as to how she was to behave like the young man she appeared to be , and also how to behave as the girl she really was .
Then he gave her his blessing , and she touched her horse with the spur .
The silver armour of herself and her steed dazzled the eyes of the people as she darted past .
She was soon out of sight , and if after a few miles she had not pulled up to allow her escort to join her , the rest of the journey would have been performed alone .
But though none of his daughters were aware of the fact , the old emperor was a magician , and had laid his plans accordingly .
He managed , unseen , to overtake his daughter , and throw a bridge of copper over a stream which she would have to cross .
Then , changing himself into a wolf , he lay down under one of the arches , and waited .
He had chosen his time well , and in about half an hour the sound of a horse 's hoofs was heard .
His feet were almost on the bridge , when a big grey wolf with grinning teeth appeared before the princess .
With a deep growl that froze the blood , he drew himself up , and prepared to spring .
The appearance of the wolf was so sudden and so unexpected , that the girl was almost paralysed , and never even dreamt of flight , till the horse leaped violently to one side .
Then she turned him round , and urging him to his fullest speed , never drew rein till she saw the gates of the palace rising before her .
The old emperor , who had got back long since , came to the door to meet her , and touching her shining armour , he said , ` Did I not tell you , my child , that flies do not make honey ? '
The days passed on , and one morning the second princess implored her father to allow her to try the adventure in which her sister had made such a failure .
He listened unwillingly , feeling sure it was no use , but she begged so hard that in the end he consented , and having chosen her arms , she rode away .
But though , unlike her sister , she was quite prepared for the appearance of the wolf when she reached the copper bridge , she showed no greater courage , and galloped home as fast as her horse could carry her .
On the steps of the castle her father was standing , and as still trembling with fright she knelt at his feet , he said gently , ` Did I not tell you , my child , that every bird is not caught in a net ? '
The three girls stayed quietly in the palace for a little while , embroidering , spinning , weaving , and tending their birds and flowers , when early one morning , the youngest princess entered the door of the emperor 's private apartments .
` My father , it is my turn now .
Perhaps I shall get the better of that wolf ! '
` What , do you think you are braver than your sisters , vain little one ?
You who have hardly left your long clothes behind you ! '
but she did not mind being laughed at , and answered , ` For your sake , father , I would cut the devil himself into small bits , or even become a devil myself .
I think I shall succeed , but if I fail , I shall come home without more shame than my sisters . '
Still the emperor hesitated , but the girl petted and coaxed him till at last he said , ` Well , well , if you must go , you must .
It remains to be seen what I shall get by it , except perhaps a good laugh when I see you come back with your head bent and your eyes on the ground . '
` He laughs best who laughs last , ' said the princess .
Happy at having got her way , the princess decided that the first thing to be done was to find some old white-haired boyard , whose advice she could trust , and then to be very careful in choosing her horse .
So she went straight to the stables where the most beautiful horses in the empire were feeding in the stalls , but none of them seemed quite what she wanted .
Almost in despair she reached the last box of all , which was occupied by her father 's ancient war-horse , old and worn like himself , stretched sadly out on the straw .
The girl 's eyes filled with tears , and she stood gazing at him .
The horse lifted his head , gave a little neigh , and said softly , ` You look gentle and pitiful , but I know it is your love for your father which makes you tender to me .
Ah , what a warrior he was , and what good times we shared together !
But now I too have grown old , and my master has forgotten me , and there is no reason to care whether my coat is dull or shining .
Yet , it is not too late , and if I were properly tended , in a week I could vie with any horse in the stables ! '
` And how should you be tended ? '
asked the girl . '
I must be rubbed down morning and evening with rain water , my barley must be boiled in milk , because of my bad teeth , and my feet must be washed in oil . ' '
I should like to try the treatment , as you might help me in carrying out my scheme . '
` Try it then , mistress , and I promise you will never repent . '
So in a week 's time the horse woke up one morning with a sudden shiver through all his limbs ; and when it had passed away , he found his skin shining like a mirror , his body as fat as a water melon , his movement light as a chamois .
Then looking at the princess who had come early to the stable , he said joyfully , ` May success await on the steps of my master 's daughter , for she has given me back my life .
Tell me what I can do for you , princess , and I will do it . ' '
I want to go to the emperor who is our over-lord , and I have no one to advise me .
Which of all the white-headed boyards shall I choose as counsellor ? '
` If you have me , you need no one else : I will serve you as I served your father , if you will only listen to what I say . ' '
I will listen to everything .
Can you start in three days ? '
` This moment , if you like , ' said the horse .
The preparations of the emperor 's youngest daughter were much fewer and simpler than those of her sisters .
They only consisted of some boy 's clothes , a small quantity of linen and food , and a little money in case of necessity .
Then she bade farewell to her father , and rode away .
A day 's journey from the palace , she reached the copper bridge , but before they came in sight of it , the horse , who was a magician , had warned her of the means her father would take to prove her courage .
Still in spite of his warning she trembled all over when a huge wolf , as thin as if he had fasted for a month , with claws like saws , and mouth as wide as an oven , bounded howling towards her .
For a moment her heart failed her , but the next , touching the horse lightly with her spur , she drew her sword from its sheath , ready to separate the wolf 's head from its body at a single blow .
The beast saw the sword , and shrank back , which was the best thing it could do , as now the girl 's blood was up , and the light of battle in her eyes .
Then without looking round , she rode across the bridge .
The emperor , proud of this first victory , took a short cut , and waited for her at the end of another day 's journey , close to a river , over which he threw a bridge of silver .
And this time he took the shape of a lion .
But the horse guessed this new danger and told the princess how to escape it .
But it is one thing to receive advice when we feel safe and comfortable , and quite another to be able to carry it out when some awful peril is threatening us .
And if the wolf had made the girl quake with terror , it seemed like a lamb beside this dreadful lion .
At the sound of his roar the very trees quivered and his claws were so large that every one of them looked like a cutlass .
The breath of the princess came and went , and her feet rattled in the stirrups .
Suddenly the remembrance flashed across her of the wolf whom she had put to flight , and waving her sword , she rushed so violently on the lion that he had barely time to spring on one side , so as to avoid the blow .
Then , like a flash , she crossed this bridge also .
Now during her whole life , the princess had been so carefully brought up , that she had never left the gardens of the palace , so that the sight of the hills and valleys and tinkling streams , and the song of the larks and blackbirds , made her almost beside herself with wonder and delight .
She longed to get down and bathe her face in the clear pools , and pick the brilliant flowers , but the horse said ` No , ' and quickened his pace , neither turning to the right or the left .
` Warriors , ' he told her , ` only rest when they have won the victory .
You have still another battle to fight , and it is the hardest of all . '
This time it was neither a wolf nor a lion that was waiting for her at the end of the third day 's journey , but a dragon with twelve heads , and a golden bridge behind it .
The princess rode up without seeing anything to frighten her , when a sudden puff of smoke and flame from beneath her feet , caused her to look down , and there was the horrible creature twisted and writhing , its twelve heads reared up as if to seize her between them .
The bridle fell from her hand : and the sword which she had just grasped slid back into its sheath , but the horse bade her fear nothing , and with a mighty effort she sat upright and spurred straight on the dragon .
The fight lasted an hour and the dragon pressed her hard .
But in the end , by a well-directed side blow , she cut off one of the heads , and with a roar that seemed to rend the heavens in two , the dragon fell back on the ground , and rose as a man before her .
Although the horse had informed the princess the dragon was really her own father , the girl had hardly believed him , and stared in amazement at the transformation .
But he flung his arms round her and pressed her to his heart saying , ` Now I see that you are as brave as the bravest , and as wise as the wisest .
You have chosen the right horse , for without his help you would have returned with a bent head and downcast eyes .
You have filled me with the hope that you may carry out the task you have undertaken , but be careful to forget none of my counsels , and above all to listen to those of your horse . '
When he had done speaking , the princess knelt down to receive his blessing , and they went their different ways .
The princess rode on and on , till at last she came to the mountains which hold up the roof of the world .
There she met two Genii who had been fighting fiercely for two years , without one having got the least advantage over the other .
Seeing what they took to be a young man seeking adventures , one of the combatants called out , ` Fet-Fruners !
deliver me from my enemy , and I will give you the horn that can be heard the distance of a three days ' journey ; ' while the other cried , ` Fet-Fruners !
help me to conquer this pagan thief , and you shall have my horse , Sunlight . '
Before answering , the princess consulted her own horse as to which offer she should accept , and he advised her to side with the genius who was master of Sunlight , his own younger brother , and still more active than himself .
So the girl at once attacked the other genius , and soon clove his skull ; then the one who was left victor begged her to come back with him to his house and he would hand her over Sunlight , as he had promised .
The mother of the genius was rejoiced to see her son return safe and sound , and prepared her best room for the princess , who , after so much fatigue , needed rest badly .
But the girl declared that she must first make her horse comfortable in his stable ; but this was really only an excuse , as she wanted to ask his advice on several matters .
But the old woman had suspected from the very first that the boy who had come to the rescue of her son was a girl in disguise , and told the genius that she was exactly the wife he needed .
The genius scoffed , and inquired what female hand could ever wield a sabre like that ; but , in spite of his sneers , his mother persisted , and as a proof of what she said , laid at night on each of their pillows a handful of magic flowers , that fade at the touch of man , but remain eternally fresh in the fingers of a woman .
It was very clever of her , but unluckily the horse had warned the princess what to expect , and when the house was silent , she stole very softly to the genius 's room , and exchanged his faded flowers for those she held .
Then she crept back to her own bed and fell fast asleep .
At break of day , the old woman ran to see her son , and found , as she knew she would , a bunch of dead flowers in his hand .
She next passed on to the bedside of the princess , who still lay asleep grasping the withered flowers .
But she did not believe any the more that her guest was a man , and so she told her son .
So they put their heads together and laid another trap for her .
After breakfast the genius gave his arm to his guest , and asked her to come with him into the garden .
For some time they walked about looking at the flowers , the genius all the while pressing her to pick any she fancied .
But the princess , suspecting a trap , inquired roughly why they were wasting the precious hours in the garden , when , as men , they should be in the stables looking after their horses .
Then the genius told his mother that she was quite wrong , and his deliverer was certainly a man .
But the old woman was not convinced for all that .
She would try once more she said , and her son must lead his visitor into the armoury , where hung every kind of weapon used all over the world -- some plain and bare , others ornamented with precious stones -- and beg her to make choice of one of them .
The princess looked at them closely , and felt the edges and points of their blades , then she hung at her belt an old sword with a curved blade , that would have done credit to an ancient warrior .
After this she informed the genius that she would start early next day and take Sunlight with her .
And there was nothing for the mother to do but to submit , though she still stuck to her own opinion .
The princess mounted Sunlight , and touched him with her spur , when the old horse , who was galloping at her side , suddenly said : ` Up to this time , mistress , you have obeyed my counsels and all has gone well .
Listen to me once more , and do what I tell you .
I am old , and -- now that there is someone to take my place , I will confess it -- I am afraid that my strength is not equal to the task that lies before me .
Give me leave , therefore , to return home , and do you continue your journey under the care of my brother .
Put your faith in him as you put it in me , and you will never repent .
Wisdom has come early to Sunlight . '
` Yes , my old comrade , you have served me well ; and it is only through your help that up to now I have been victorious .
So grieved though I am to say farewell , I will obey you yet once more , and will listen to your brother as I would to yourself .
Only , I must have a proof that he loves me as well as you do . '
` How should I not love you ? '
answered Sunlight ; ` how should I not be proud to serve a warrior such as you ?
Trust me , mistress , and you shall never regret the absence of my brother .
I know there will be difficulties in our path , but we will face them together . '
Then , with tears in her eyes , the princess took leave of her old horse , who galloped back to her father .
She had ridden only a few miles further , when she saw a golden curl lying on the road before her .
Checking her horse , she asked whether it would be better to take it or let it lie .
` If you take it , ' said Sunlight , ` you will repent , and if you do n't , you will repent too : so take it . '
On this the girl dismounted , and picking up the curl , wound it round her neck for safety .
They passed by hills , they passed by mountains , they passed through valleys , leaving behind them thick forests , and fields covered with flowers ; and at length they reached the court of the over-lord .
He was sitting on his throne , surrounded by the sons of the other emperors , who served him as pages .
These youths came forward to greet their new companion , and wondered why they felt so attracted towards him .
However , there was no time for talking and concealing her fright .
The princess was led straight up to the throne , and explained , in a low voice , the reason of her coming .
The emperor received her kindly , and declared himself fortunate at finding a vassal so brave and so charming , and begged the princess to remain in attendance on his person .
She was , however , very careful in her behaviour towards the other pages , whose way of life did not please her .
One day , however , she had been amusing herself by making sweetmeats , when two of the young princes looked in to pay her a visit .
She offered them some of the food which was already on the table , and they thought it so delicious that they even licked their fingers so as not to lose a morsel .
Of course they did not keep the news of their discovery to themselves , but told all their companions that they had just been enjoying the best supper they had had since they were born .
And from that moment the princess was left no peace , till she had promised to cook them all a dinner .
Now it happened that , on the very day fixed , all the cooks in the palace became intoxicated , and there was no one to make up the fire .
When the pages heard of this shocking state of things , they went to their companion and implored her to come to the rescue .
The princess was fond of cooking , and was , besides , very good-natured ; so she put on an apron and went down to the kitchen without delay .
When the dinner was placed before the emperor he found it so nice that he ate much more than was good for him .
The next morning , as soon as he woke , he sent for his head cook , and told him to send up the same dishes as before .
The cook , seized with fright at this command , which he knew he could not fulfil , fell on his knees , and confessed the truth .
The emperor was so astonished that he forgot to scold , and while he was thinking over the matter , some of his pages came in and said that their new companion had been heard to boast that he knew where Iliane was to be found -- the celebrated Iliane of the song which begins : ` Golden Hair The fields are green , ' and that to their certain knowledge he had a curl of her hair in his possession .
When he heard that , the emperor desired the page to be brought before him , and , as soon as the princess obeyed his summons , he said to her abruptly : ` Fet-Fruners , you have hidden from me the fact that you knew the golden-haired Iliane !
Why did you do this ?
for I have treated you more kindly than all my other pages . '
Then , after making the princess show him the golden curl which she wore round her neck , he added : ` Listen to me ; unless by some means or other you bring me the owner of this lock , I will have your head cut off in the place where you stand .
Now go ! '
In vain the poor girl tried to explain how the lock of hair came into her possession ; the emperor would listen to nothing , and , bowing low , she left his presence and went to consult Sunlight what she was to do .
At his first words she brightened up .
` Do not be afraid , mistress ; only last night my brother appeared to me in a dream and told me that a genius had carried off Iliane , whose hair you picked up on the road .
But Iliane declares that , before she marries her captor , he must bring her , as a present , the whole stud of mares which belong to her .
The genius , half crazy with love , thinks of nothing night and day but how this can be done , and meanwhile she is quite safe in the island swamps of the sea .
Go back to the emperor and ask him for twenty ships filled with precious merchandise .
The rest you shall know by-and-by . '
On hearing this advice , the princess went at once into the emperor 's presence .
` May a long life be yours , O Sovereign all mighty ! '
said she . '
I have come to tell you that I can do as you command if you will give me twenty ships , and load them with the most precious wares in your kingdom . '
` You shall have all that I possess if you will bring me the golden-haired Iliane , ' said the emperor .
The ships were soon ready , and the princess entered the largest and finest , with Sunlight at her side .
Then the sails were spread and the voyage began .
For seven weeks the wind blew them straight towards the west , and early one morning they caught sight of the island swamps of the sea .
They cast anchor in a little bay , and the princess made haste to disembark with Sunlight , but , before leaving the ship , she tied to her belt a pair of tiny gold slippers , adorned with precious stones .
Then mounting Sunlight , she rode about till she came to several palaces , built on hinges , so that they could always turn towards the sun .
The most splendid of these was guarded by three slaves , whose greedy eyes were caught by the glistening gold of the slippers .
They hastened up to the owner of these treasures , and inquired who he was . '
A merchant , ' replied the princess , ` who had somehow missed his road , and lost himself among the island swamps of the sea . '
Not knowing if it was proper to receive him or not , the slaves returned to their mistress and told her all they had seen , but not before she had caught sight of the merchant from the roof of her palace .
Luckily her gaoler was away , always trying to catch the stud of mares , so for the moment she was free and alone .
The slaves told their tale so well that their mistress insisted on going down to the shore and seeing the beautiful slippers for herself .
They were even lovelier than she expected , and when the merchant besought her to come on board , and inspect some that he thought were finer still , her curiosity was too great to refuse , and she went .
Once on board ship , she was so busy turning over all the precious things stored there , that she never knew that the sails were spread , and that they were flying along with the wind behind them ; and when she did know , she rejoiced in her heart , though she pretended to weep and lament at being carried captive a second time .
Thus they arrived at the court of the emperor .
They were just about to land , when the mother of the genius stood before them .
She had learnt that Iliane had fled from her prison in company with a merchant , and , as her son was absent , had come herself in pursuit .
Striding over the blue waters , hopping from wave to wave , one foot reaching to heaven , and the other planted in the foam , she was close at their heels , breathing fire and flame , when they stepped on shore from the ship .
One glance told Iliane who the horrible old woman was , and she whispered hastily to her companion .
Without saying a word , the princess swung her into Sunlight 's saddle , and leaping up behind her , they were off like a flash .
It was not till they drew near the town that the princess stooped and asked Sunlight what they should do .
` Put your hand into my left ear , ' said he , ` and take out a sharp stone , which you must throw behind you . '
The princess did as she was told , and a huge mountain sprang up behind them .
The mother of the genius began to climb up it , and though they galloped quickly , she was quicker still .
They heard her coming , faster , faster ; and again the princess stooped to ask what was to be done now .
` Put your hand into my right ear , ' said the horse , ` and throw the brush you will find there behind you . '
The princess did so , and a great forest sprang up behind them , and , so thick were its leaves , that even a wren could not get through .
But the old woman seized hold of the branches and flung herself like a monkey from one to the others , and always she drew nearer -- always , always -- till their hair was singed by the flames of her mouth .
Then , in despair , the princess again bent down and asked if there was nothing more to be done , and Sunlight replied ` Quick , quick , take off the betrothal ring on the finger of Iliane and throw it behind you . '
This time there sprang up a great tower of stone , smooth as ivory , hard as steel , which reached up to heaven itself .
And the mother of the genius gave a howl of rage , knowing that she could neither climb it nor get through it .
But she was not beaten yet , and gathering herself together , she made a prodigious leap , which landed her on the top of the tower , right in the middle of Iliane 's ring which lay there , and held her tight .
Only her claws could be seen grasping the battlements .
All that could be done the old witch did ; but the fire that poured from her mouth never reached the fugitives , though it laid waste the country a hundred miles round the tower , like the flames of a volcano .
Then , with one last effort to free herself , her hands gave way , and , falling down to the bottom of the tower , she was broken in pieces .
When the flying princess saw what had happened she rode back to the spot , as Sunlight counselled her , and placed her finger on the top of the tower , which was gradually shrinking into the earth .
In an instant the tower had vanished as if it had never been , and in its place was the finger of the princess with a ring round it .
The emperor received Iliane with all the respect that was due to her , and fell in love at first sight besides .
But this did not seem to please Iliane , whose face was sad as she walked about the palace or gardens , wondering how it was that , while other girls did as they liked , she was always in the power of someone whom she hated .
So when the emperor asked her to share his throne Iliane answered : ` Noble Sovereign , I may not think of marriage till my stud of horses has been brought me , with their trappings all complete . '
When he heard this , the emperor once more sent for Fet-Fruners , and said : ` Fet-Fruners , fetch me instantly the stud of mares , with their trappings all complete .
If not , your head shall pay the forfeit . '
` Mighty Emperor , I kiss your hands !
I have but just returned from doing your bidding , and , behold , you send me on another mission , and stake my head on its fulfilment , when your court is full of valiant young men , pining to win their spurs .
They say you are a just man ; then why not entrust this quest to one of them ?
Where am I to seek these mares that I am to bring you ? '
` How do I know ?
They may be anywhere in heaven or earth ; but , wherever they are , you will have to find them . '
The princess bowed and went to consult Sunlight .
He listened while she told her tale , and then said : ` Fetch quickly nine buffalo skins ; smear them well with tar , and lay them on my back .
Do not fear ; you will succeed in this also ; but , in the end , the emperor 's desires will be his undoing . '
The buffalo skins were soon got , and the princess started off with Sunlight .
The way was long and difficult , but at length they reached the place where the mares were grazing .
Here the genius who had carried off Iliane was wandering about , trying to discover how to capture them , all the while believing that Iliane was safe in the palace where he had left her .
As soon as she caught sight of him , the princess went up and told him that Iliane had escaped , and that his mother , in her efforts to recapture her , had died of rage .
At this news a blind fury took possession of the genius , and he rushed madly upon the princess , who awaited his onslaught with perfect calmness .
As he came on , with his sabre lifted high in the air , Sunlight bounded right over his head , so that the sword fell harmless .
And when in her turn the princess prepared to strike , the horse sank upon his knees , so that the blade pierced the genius 's thigh .
The fight was so fierce that it seemed as if the earth would give way under them , and for twenty miles round the beasts in the forests fled to their caves for shelter .
At last , when her strength was almost gone , the genius lowered his sword for an instant .
The princess saw her chance , and , with one swoop of her arm , severed her enemy 's head from his body .
Still trembling from the long struggle , she turned away , and went to the meadow where the stud were feeding .
By the advice of Sunlight , she took care not to let them see her , and climbed a thick tree , where she could see and hear without being seen herself .
Then he neighed , and the mares came galloping up , eager to see the new comer -- all but one horse , who did not like strangers , and thought they were very well as they were .
As Sunlight stood his ground , well pleased with the attention paid him , this sulky creature suddenly advanced to the charge , and bit so violently that had it not been for the nine buffalo skins Sunlight 's last moment would have come .
When the fight was ended , the buffalo skins were in ribbons , and the beaten animal writhing with pain on the grass .
Nothing now remained to be done but to drive the whole stud to the emperor 's court .
So the princess came down from the tree and mounted Sunlight , while the stud followed meekly after , the wounded horse bringing up the rear .
On reaching the palace , she drove them into a yard , and went to inform the emperor of her arrival .
The news was told at once to Iliane , who ran down directly and called them to her one by one , each mare by its name .
And at the first sight of her the wounded animal shook itself quickly , and in a moment its wounds were healed , and there was not even a mark on its glossy skin .
By this time the emperor , on hearing where she was , joined her in the yard , and at her request ordered the mares to be milked , so that both he and she might bathe in the milk and keep young for ever .
But they would suffer no one to come near them , and the princess was commanded to perform this service also .
At this , the heart of the girl swelled within her .
The hardest tasks were always given to her , and long before the two years were up , she would be worn out and useless .
But while these thoughts passed through her mind , a fearful rain fell , such as no man remembered before , and rose till the mares were standing up to their knees in water .
Then as suddenly it stopped , and , behold !
the water was ice , which held the animals firmly in its grasp .
And the princess 's heart grew light again , and she sat down gaily to milk them , as if she had done it every morning of her life .
The love of the emperor for Iliane waxed greater day by day , but she paid no heed to him , and always had an excuse ready to put off their marriage .
At length , when she had come to the end of everything she could think of , she said to him one day : ` Grant me , Sire , just one request more , and then I will really marry you ; for you have waited patiently this long time . '
` My beautiful dove , ' replied the emperor , ` both I and all I possess are yours , so ask your will , and you shall have it . '
` Get me , then , ' she said , ' a flask of the holy water that is kept in a little church beyond the river Jordan , and I will be your wife . '
Then the emperor ordered Fet-Fruners to ride without delay to the river Jordan , and to bring back , at whatever cost , the holy water for Iliane .
` This , my mistress , ' said Sunlight , when she was saddling him , ` is the last and most difficult of your tasks .
But fear nothing , for the hour of the emperor has struck . '
So they started ; and the horse , who was not a wizard for nothing , told the princess exactly where she was to look for the holy water .
` It stands , ' he said , ` on the altar of a little church , and is guarded by a troop of nuns .
They never sleep , night or day , but every now and then a hermit comes to visit them , and from him they learn certain things it is needful for them to know .
When this happens , only one of the nuns remains on guard at a time , and if we are lucky enough to hit upon this moment , we may get hold of the vase at once ; if not , we shall have to wait the arrival of the hermit , however long it may be ; for there is no other means of obtaining the holy water . '
They came in sight of the church beyond the Jordan , and , to their great joy , beheld the hermit just arriving at the door .
They could hear him calling the nuns around him , and saw them settle themselves under a tree , with the hermit in their midst -- all but one , who remained on guard , as was the custom .
The hermit had a great deal to say , and the day was very hot , so the nun , tired of sitting by herself , lay down right across the threshold , and fell sound asleep .
Then Sunlight told the princess what she was to do , and the girl stepped softly over the sleeping nun , and crept like a cat along the dark aisle , feeling the wall with her fingers , lest she should fall over something and ruin it all by a noise .
But she reached the altar in safety , and found the vase of holy water standing on it .
This she thrust into her dress , and went back with the same care as she came .
With a bound she was in the saddle , and seizing the reins bade Sunlight take her home as fast as his legs could carry him .
The sound of the flying hoofs aroused the nun , who understood instantly that the precious treasure was stolen , and her shrieks were so loud and piercing that all the rest came flying to see what was the matter .
The hermit followed at their heels , but seeing it was impossible to overtake the thief , he fell on his knees and called his most deadly curse down on her head , praying that if the thief was a man , he might become a woman ; and if she was a woman , that she might become a man .
In either case he thought that the punishment would be severe .
But punishments are things about which people do not always agree , and when the princess suddenly felt she was really the man she had pretended to be , she was delighted , and if the hermit had only been within reach she would have thanked him from her heart .
By the time she reached the emperor 's court , Fet-Fruners looked a young man all over in the eyes of everyone ; and even the mother of the genius would now have had her doubts set at rest .
He drew forth the vase from his tunic and held it up to the emperor , saying : ` Mighty Sovereign , all hail !
I have fulfilled this task also , and I hope it is the last you have for me ; let another now take his turn . ' '
I am content , Fet-Fruners , ' replied the emperor , ` and when I am dead it is you who will sit upon my throne ; for I have yet no son to come after me .
But if one is given me , and my dearest wish is accomplished , then you shall be his right hand , and guide him with your counsels . '
But though the emperor was satisfied , Iliane was not , and she determined to revenge herself on the emperor for the dangers which he had caused Fet-Fruners to run .
And as for the vase of holy water , she thought that , in common politeness , her suitor ought to have fetched it himself , which he could have done without any risk at all .
So she ordered the great bath to be filled with the milk of her mares , and begged the emperor to clothe himself in white robes , and enter the bath with her , an invitation he accepted with joy .
Then , when both were standing with the milk reaching to their necks , she sent for the horse which had fought Sunlight , and made a secret sign to him .
The horse understood what he was to do , and from one nostril he breathed fresh air over Iliane , and from the other , he snorted a burning wind which shrivelled up the emperor where he stood , leaving only a little heap of ashes .
His strange death , which no one could explain , made a great sensation throughout the country , and the funeral his people gave him was the most splendid ever known .
When it was over , Iliane summoned Fet-Fruners before her , and addressed him thus : ` Fet-Fruners !
it is you who brought me and have saved my life , and obeyed my wishes .
It is you who gave me back my stud ; you who killed the genius , and the old witch his mother ; you who brought me the holy water .
And you , and none other , shall be my husband . '
` Yes , I will marry you , ' said the young man , with a voice almost as soft as when he was a princess .
` But know that in OUR house , it will be the cock who sings and not the hen ! '
-LRB- From Sept Contes Roumains , Jules Brun and Leo Bachelin . -RRB-
THE STORY OF HALFMAN In a certain town there lived a judge who was married but had no children .
One day he was standing lost in thought before his house , when an old man passed by .
` What is the matter , sir , said he , ` you look troubled ? '
` Oh , leave me alone , my good man ! '
` But what is it ? '
persisted the other .
` Well , I am successful in my profession and a person of importance , but I care nothing for it all , as I have no children . '
Then the old man said , ` Here are twelve apples .
If your wife eats them , she will have twelve sons . '
The judge thanked him joyfully as he took the apples , and went to seek his wife .
` Eat these apples at once , ' he cried , ` and you will have twelve sons . '
So she sat down and ate eleven of them , but just as she was in the middle of the twelfth her sister came in , and she gave her the half that was left .
The eleven sons came into the world , strong and handsome boys ; but when the twelfth was born , there was only half of him .
By-and-by they all grew into men , and one day they told their father it was high time he found wives for them . '
I have a brother , ' he answered , ` who lives away in the East , and he has twelve daughters ; go and marry them . '
So the twelve sons saddled their horses and rode for twelve days , till they met an old woman .
` Good greeting to you , young men ! '
said she , ` we have waited long for you , your uncle and I .
The girls have become women , and are sought , in marriage by many , but I knew you would come one day , and I have kept them for you .
Follow me into my house . '
And the twelve brothers followed her gladly , and their father 's brother stood at the door , and gave them meat and drink .
But at night , when every one was asleep , Halfman crept softly to his brothers , and said to them , ` Listen , all of you !
This man is no uncle of ours , but an ogre . '
` Nonsense ; of course he is our uncle , ' answered they .
` Well , this very night you will see ! '
said Halfman .
And he did not go to bed , but hid himself and watched .
Now in a little while he saw the wife of the ogre steal into the room on tiptoe and spread a red cloth over the brothers and then go and cover her daughters with a white cloth .
After that she lay down and was soon snoring loudly .
When Halfman was quite sure she was sound asleep , he took the red cloth from his brothers and put it on the girls , and laid their white cloth over his brothers .
Next he drew their scarlet caps from their heads and exchanged them for the veils which the ogre 's daughters were wearing .
This was hardly done when he heard steps coming along the floor , so he hid himself quickly in the folds of a curtain .
There was only half of him !
The ogress came slowly and gently along , stretching out her hands before her , so that she might not fall against anything unawares , for she had only a tiny lantern slung at her waist , which did not give much light .
And when she reached the place where the sisters were lying , she stooped down and held a corner of the cloth up to the lantern .
Yes !
it certainly was red !
Still , to make sure that there was no mistake , she passed her hands lightly over their heads , and felt the caps that covered them .
Then she was quite certain the brothers lay sleeping before her , and began to kill them one by one .
And Halfman whispered to his brothers , ` Get up and run for your lives , as the ogress is killing her daughters . '
The brothers needed no second bidding , and in a moment were out of the house .
By this time the ogress had slain all her daughters but one , who awoke suddenly and saw what had happened .
` Mother , what are you doing ? '
cried she .
` Do you know that you have killed my sisters ? '
` Oh , woe is me ! '
wailed the ogress .
` Halfman has outwitted me after all ! '
And she turned to wreak vengeance on him , but he and his brothers were far away .
They rode all day till they got to the town where their real uncle lived , and inquired the way to his house .
` Why have you been so long in coming ? '
asked he , when they had found him .
` Oh , dear uncle , we were very nearly not coming at all ! '
replied they .
` We fell in with an ogress who took us home and would have killed us if it had not been for Halfman .
He knew what was in her mind and saved us , and here we are .
Now give us each a daughter to wife , and let us return whence we came . '
` Take them ! '
said the uncle ; ` the eldest for the eldest , the second for the second , and so on to the youngest . '
But the wife of Halfman was the prettiest of them all , and the other brothers were jealous and said to each other : ` What , is he who is only half a man to get the best ?
Let us put him to death and give his wife to our eldest brother ! '
And they waited for a chance .
After they had all ridden , in company with their brides , for some distance , they arrived at a brook , and one of them asked , ` Now , who will go and fetch water from the brook ? '
` Halfman is the youngest , ' said the elder brother , ` he must go . '
So Halfman got down and filled a skin with water , and they drew it up by a rope and drank .
When they had done drinking , Halfman , who was standing in the middle of the stream , called out : ` Throw me the rope and draw me up , for I can not get out alone . '
And the brothers threw him a rope to draw him up the steep bank ; but when he was half-way up they cut the rope , and he fell back into the stream .
Then the brothers rode away as fast as they could , with his bride .
Halfman sank down under the water from the force of the fall , but before he touched the bottom a fish came and said to him , ` Fear nothing , Halfman ; I will help you . '
And the fish guided him to a shallow place , so that he scrambled out .
On the way it said to him , ` Do you understand what your brothers , whom you saved from death , have done to you ? '
` Yes ; but what am I to do ? '
asked Halfman .
` Take one of my scales , ' said the fish , ` and when you find yourself in danger , throw it in the fire .
Then I will appear before you . '
` Thank you , ' said Halfman , and went his way , while the fish swam back to its home .
The country was strange to Halfman , and he wandered about without knowing where he was going , till he suddenly found the ogress standing before him .
` Ah , Halfman , have I got you at last ?
You killed my daughters and helped your brothers to escape .
What do you think I shall do with you ? '
` Whatever you like ! '
said Halfman .
` Come into my house , then , ' said the ogress , and he followed her .
` Look here ! '
she called to her husband , ' I have got hold of Halfman .
I am going to roast him , so be quick and make up the fire ! '
So the ogre brought wood , and heaped it up till the flames roared up the chimney .
Then he turned to his wife and said : ` It is all ready , let us put him on ! '
` What is the hurry , my good ogre ? '
asked Halfman .
` You have me in your power , and I can not escape .
I am so thin now , I shall hardly make one mouthful .
Better fatten me up ; you will enjoy me much more . '
` That is a very sensible remark , ' replied the ogre ; ` but what fattens you quickest ? '
` Butter , meat , and red wine , ' answered Halfman .
` Very good ; we will lock you into this room , and here you shall stay till you are ready for eating . '
So Halfman was locked into the room , and the ogre and his wife brought him his food .
At the end of three months he said to his gaolers : ` Now I have got quite fat ; take me out , and kill me . '
` Get out , then ! '
said the ogre .
` But , ' went on Halfman , ` you and your wife had better go to invite your friends to the feast , and your daughter can stay in the house and look after me ! '
` Yes , that is a good idea , ' answered they .
` You had better bring the wood in here , ' continued Halfman , ` and I will split it up small , so that there may be no delay in cooking me . '
So the ogress gave Halfman a pile of wood and an axe , and then set out with her husband , leaving Halfman and her daughter busy in the house .
After he had chopped for a little while he called to the girl , ` Come and help me , or else I sha n't have it all ready when your mother gets back . '
` All right , ' said she , and held a billet of wood for him to chop .
But he raised his axe and cut off her head , and ran away like the wind .
By-and-by the ogre and his wife returned and found their daughter lying without her head , and they began to cry and sob , saying , ` This is Halfman 's work , why did we listen to him ? '
But Halfman was far away .
When he escaped from the house he ran on straight before him for some time , looking for a safe shelter , as he knew that the ogre 's legs were much longer than his , and that it was his only chance .
At last he saw an iron tower which he climbed up .
Soon the ogre appeared , looking right and left lest his prey should be sheltering behind a rock or tree , but he did not know Halfman was so near till he heard his voice calling , ` Come up !
come up !
you will find me here ! '
` But how can I come up ? '
said the ogre , ' I see no door , and I could not possibly climb that tower . '
` Oh , there is no door , ' replied Halfman .
` Then how did you climb up ? ' '
A fish carried me on his back . '
` And what am I to do ? '
` You must go and fetch all your relations , and tell them to bring plenty of sticks ; then you must light a fire , and let it burn till the tower becomes red hot .
After that you can easily throw it down . '
` Very good , ' said the ogre , and he went round to every relation he had , and told them to collect wood and bring it to the tower where Halfman was .
The men did as they were ordered , and soon the tower was glowing like coral , but when they flung themselves against it to overthrow it , they caught themselves on fire and were burnt to death .
And overhead sat Halfman , laughing heartily .
But the ogre 's wife was still alive , for she had taken no part in kindling the fire .
` Oh , ' she shrieked with rage , ` you have killed my daughters and my husband , and all the men belonging to me ; how can I get at you to avenge myself ? '
` Oh , that is easy enough , ' said Halfman . '
I will let down a rope , and if you tie it tightly round you , I will draw it up . '
` All right , ' returned the ogress , fastening the rope which Halfman let down .
` Now pull me up . '
` Are you sure it is secure ? '
` Yes , quite sure . '
` Do n't be afraid . '
` Oh , I am not afraid at all ! '
So Halfman slowly drew her up , and when she was near the top he let go the rope , and she fell down and broke her neck .
Then Halfman heaved a great sigh and said , ` That was hard work ; the rope has hurt my hands badly , but now I am rid of her for ever . '
So Halfman came down from the tower , and went on , till he got to a desert place , and as he was very tired , he lay down to sleep .
While it was still dark , an ogress passed by , and she woke him and said , ` Halfman , to-morrow your brother is to marry your wife . '
` Oh , how can I stop it ? '
asked he .
` Will you help me ? '
` Yes , I will , ' replied the ogress .
` Thank you , thank you ! '
cried Halfman , kissing her on the forehead .
` My wife is dearer to me than anything else in the world , and it is not my brother 's fault that I am not dead long ago . '
` Very well , I will rid you of him , ' said the ogress , ` but only on one condition .
If a boy is born to you , you must give him to me ! '
` Oh , anything , ' answered Halfman , ` as long as you deliver me from my brother , and get me my wife . '
` Mount on my back , then , and in a quarter of an hour we shall be there . '
The ogress was as good as her word , and in a few minutes they arrived at the outskirts of the town where Halfman and his brothers lived .
Here she left him , while she went into the town itself , and found the wedding guests just leaving the brother 's house .
Unnoticed by anyone , the ogress crept into a curtain , changing herself into a scorpion , and when the brother was going to get into bed , she stung him behind the ear , so that he fell dead where he stood .
Then she returned to Halfman and told him to go and claim his bride .
He jumped up hastily from his seat , and took the road to his father 's house .
As he drew near he heard sounds of weeping and lamentations , and he said to a man he met : ` What is the matter ? '
` The judge 's eldest son was married yesterday , and died suddenly before night . '
` Well , ' thought Halfman , ` my conscience is clear anyway , for it is quite plain he coveted my wife , and that is why he tried to drown me . '
He went at once to his father 's room , and found him sitting in tears on the floor .
` Dear father , ' said Halfman , ` are you not glad to see me ?
You weep for my brother , but I am your son too , and he stole my bride from me and tried to drown me in the brook .
If he is dead , I at least am alive . '
` No , no , he was better than you ! '
moaned the father .
` Why , dear father ? '
` He told me you had behaved very ill , ' said he .
` Well , call my brothers , ' answered Halfman , ` as I have a story to tell them . '
So the father called them all into his presence .
Then Halfman began : ` After we were twelve days ' journey from home , we met an ogress , who gave us greeting and said , `` Why have you been so long coming ?
The daughters of your uncle have waited for you in vain , '' and she bade us follow her to the house , saying , `` Now there need be no more delay ; you can marry your cousins as soon as you please , and take them with you to your own home . ''
But I warned my brothers that the man was not our uncle , but an ogre .
` When we lay down to sleep , she spread a red cloth over us , and covered her daughters with a white one ; but I changed the cloths , and when the ogress came back in the middle of the night , and looked at the cloths , she mistook her own daughters for my brothers , and killed them one by one , all but the youngest .
Then I woke my brothers , and we all stole softly from the house , and we rode like the wind to our real uncle .
` And when he saw us , he bade us welcome , and married us to his twelve daughters , the eldest to the eldest , and so on to me , whose bride was the youngest of all and also the prettiest .
And my brothers were filled with envy , and left me to drown in a brook , but I was saved by a fish who showed me how to get out .
Now , you are a judge !
Who did well , and who did evil -- I or my brothers ? '
` Is this story true ? '
said the father , turning to his sons .
` It is true , my father , ' answered they .
` It is even as Halfman has said , and the girl belongs to him . '
Then the judge embraced Halfman and said to him : ` You have done well , my son .
Take your bride , and may you both live long and happily together ! '
At the end of the year Halfman 's wife had a son , and not long after she came one day hastily into the room , and found her husband weeping .
` What is the matter ? '
she asked .
` The matter ? '
said he .
` Yes , why are you weeping ? '
` Because , ' replied Halfman , ` the baby is not really ours , but belongs to an ogress . '
` Are you mad ? '
cried the wife .
` What do you mean by talking like that ? ' '
I promised , ' said Halfman , ` when she undertook to kill my brother and to give you to me , that the first son we had should be hers . '
` And will she take him from us now ? '
said the poor woman .
` No , not quite yet , ' replied Halfman ; ` when he is bigger . '
` And is she to have all our children ? '
asked she .
` No , only this one , ' returned Halfman .
Day by day the boy grew bigger , and one day as he was playing in the street with the other children , the ogress came by .
` Go to your father , ' she said , ` and repeat this speech to him : `` I want my forfeit ; when am I to have it ? '' '
` All right , ' replied the child , but when he went home forgot all about it .
The next day the ogress came again , and asked the boy what answer the father had given . '
I forgot all about it , ' said he .
` Well , put this ring on your finger , and then you wo n't forget . '
` Very well , ' replied the boy , and went home .
The next morning , as he was at breakfast , his mother said to him , ` Child , where did you get that ring ? ' '
A woman gave it to me yesterday , and she told me , father , to tell you that she wanted her forfeit , and when was she to have it ? '
Then his father burst into tears and said , ` If she comes again you must say to her that your parents bid her take her forfeit at once , and depart . '
At this they both began to weep afresh , and his mother kissed him , and put on his new clothes and said , ` If the woman bids you to follow her , you must go , ' but the boy did not heed her grief , he was so pleased with his new clothes .
And when he went out , he said to his play-fellows , ` Look how smart I am ; I am going away with my aunt to foreign lands . '
At that moment the ogress came up and asked him , ` Did you give my message to your father and mother ? '
` Yes , dear aunt , I did . '
` And what did they say ? '
` Take it away at once ! '
So she took him .
But when dinner-time came , and the boy did not return , his father and mother knew that he would never come back , and they sat down and wept all day .
At last Halfman rose up and said to his wife , ` Be comforted ; we will wait a year , and then I will go to the ogress and see the boy , and how he is cared for . '
` Yes , that will be the best , ' said she .
The year passed away , then Halfman saddled his horse , and rode to the place where the ogress had found him sleeping .
She was not there , but not knowing what to do next , he got off his horse and waited .
About midnight she suddenly stood before him .
` Halfman , why did you come here ? '
said she . '
I have a question I want to ask you . '
` Well , ask it ; but I know quite well what it is .
Your wife wishes you to ask whether I shall carry off your second son as I did the first . '
` Yes , that is it , ' replied Halfman .
Then he seized her hand and said , ` Oh , let me see my son , and how he looks , and what he is doing . '
The ogress was silent , but stuck her staff hard in the earth , and the earth opened , and the boy appeared and said , ` Dear father , have you come too ? '
And his father clasped him in his arms , and began to cry .
But the boy struggled to be free , saying ` Dear father , put me down .
I have got a new mother , who is better than the old one ; and a new father , who is better than you . '
Then his father sat him down and said , ` Go in peace , my boy , but listen first to me .
Tell your father the ogre and your mother the ogress , that never more shall they have any children of mine . '
` All right , ' replied the boy , and called ` Mother ! '
` What is it ? '
` You are never to take away any more of my father and mother 's children ! '
` Now that I have got you , I do n't want any more , ' answered she .
Then the boy turned to his father and said , ` Go in peace , dear father , and give my mother greeting and tell her not to be anxious any more , for she can keep all her children . '
And Halfman mounted his horse and rode home , and told his wife all he had seen , and the message sent by Mohammed -- Mohammed the son of Halfman , the son of the judge .
-LRB- Marchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis .
Hans von Stumme . -RRB-
THE PRINCE WHO WANTED TO SEE THE WORLD There was once a king who had only one son , and this young man tormented his father from morning till night to allow him to travel in far countries .
For a long time the king refused to give him leave ; but at last , wearied out , he granted permission , and ordered his treasurer to produce a large sum of money for the prince 's expenses .
The youth was overjoyed at the thought that he was really going to see the world , and after tenderly embracing his father he set forth .
He rode on for some weeks without meeting with any adventures ; but one night when he was resting at an inn , he came across another traveller , with whom he fell into conversation , in the course of which the stranger inquired if he never played cards .
The young man replied that he was very fond of doing so .
Cards were brought , and in a very short time the prince had lost every penny he possessed to his new acquaintance .
When there was absolutely nothing left at the bottom of the bag , the stranger proposed that they should have just one more game , and that if the prince won he should have the money restored to him , but in case he lost , should remain in the inn for three years , and besides that should be his servant for another three .
The prince agreed to those terms , played , and lost ; so the stranger took rooms for him , and furnished him with bread and water every day for three years .
The prince lamented his lot , but it was no use ; and at the end of three years he was released and had to go to the house of the stranger , who was really the king of a neighbouring country , and be his servant .
Before he had gone very far he met a woman carrying a child , which was crying from hunger .
The prince took it from her , and fed it with his last crust of bread and last drop of water , and then gave it back to its mother .
The woman thanked him gratefully , and said : ` Listen , my lord .
You must walk straight on till you notice a very strong scent , which comes from a garden by the side of the road .
Go in and hide yourself close to a tank , where three doves will come to bathe .
As the last one flies past you , catch hold of its robe of feathers , and refuse to give it back till the dove has promised you three things . '
The young man did as he was told , and everything happened as the woman had said .
He took the robe of feathers from the dove , who gave him in exchange for it a ring , a collar , and one of its own plumes , saying : ` When you are in any trouble , cry `` Come to my aid , O dove ! ''
I am the daughter of the king you are going to serve , who hates your father and made you gamble in order to cause your ruin . '
Thus the prince went on his way , and in course of time he arrived at the king 's palace .
As soon as his master knew he was there , the young man was sent for into his presence , and three bags were handed to him with these words : ` Take this wheat , this millet , and this barley , and sow them at once , so that I may have loaves of them all to-morrow . '
The prince stood speechless at this command , but the king did not condescend to give any further explanation , and when he was dismissed the young man flew to the room which had been set aside for him , and pulling out his feather , he cried : ` Dove , dove !
be quick and come . '
` What is it ? '
said the dove , flying in through the open window , and the prince told her of the task before him , and of his despair at being unable to accomplish it .
` Fear nothing ; it will be all right , ' replied the dove , as she flew away again .
The next morning when the prince awoke he saw the three loaves standing beside his bed .
He jumped up and dressed , and he was scarcely ready when a page arrived with the message that he was to go at once into the king 's chamber .
Taking the loaves in his arm he followed the boy , and , bowing low , laid them down before the king .
The monarch looked at the loaves for a moment without speaking , then he said : ` Good .
The man who can do this can also find the ring which my eldest daughter dropped into the sea . '
The prince hastened back to his room and summoned the dove , and when she heard this new command she said : ` Now listen .
To-morrow take a knife and a basin and go down to the shore and get into a boat you will find there . '
The young man did not know what he was to do when he was in the boat or where he was to go , but as the dove had come to his rescue before , he was ready to obey her blindly .
When he reached the boat he found the dove perched on one of the masts , and at a signal from her he put to sea ; the wind was behind them and they soon lost sight of land .
The dove then spoke for the first time and said , ` Take that knife and cut off my head , but be careful that not a single drop of blood falls to the ground .
Afterwards you must throw it into the sea . '
Wondering at this strange order , the prince picked up his knife and severed the dove 's head from her body at one stroke .
A little while after a dove rose from the water with a ring in its beak , and laying it in the prince 's hand , dabbled itself with the blood that was in the basin , when its head became that of a beautiful girl .
Another moment and it had vanished completely , and the prince took the ring and made his way back to the palace .
The king stared with surprise at the sight of the ring , but he thought of another way of getting rid of the young man which was surer even than the other two .
` This evening you will mount my colt and ride him to the field , and break him in properly . '
The prince received this command as silently as he had received the rest , but no sooner was he in his room than he called for the dove , who said : ` Attend to me .
My father longs to see you dead , and thinks he will kill you by this means .
He himself is the colt , my mother is the saddle , my two sisters are the stirrups , and I am the bridle .
Do not forget to take a good club , to help you in dealing with such a crew . '
So the prince mounted the colt , and gave him such a beating that when he came to the palace to announce that the animal was now so meek that it could be ridden by the smallest child , he found the king so bruised that he had to be wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar , the mother was too stiff to move , and several of the daughters ' ribs were broken .
The youngest , however , was quite unharmed .
That night she came to the prince and whispered to him : ` Now that they are all in too much pain to move , we had better seize our chance and run away .
Go to the stable and saddle the leanest horse you can find there . '
But the prince was foolish enough to choose the fattest : and when they had started and the princess saw what he had done , she was very sorry , for though this horse ran like the wind , the other flashed like thought .
However , it was dangerous to go back , and they rode on as fast as the horse would go .
In the night the king sent for his youngest daughter , and as she did not come he sent again ; but she did not come any the more for that .
The queen , who was a witch , discovered that her daughter had gone off with the prince , and told her husband he must leave his bed and go after them .
The king got slowly up , groaning with pain , and dragged himself to the stables , where he saw the lean horse still in his stall .
Leaping on his back he shook the reins , and his daughter , who knew what to expect and had her eyes open , saw the horse start forward , and in the twinkling of an eye changed her own steed into a cell , the prince into a hermit , and herself into a nun .
When the king reached the chapel , he pulled up his horse and asked if a girl and a young man had passed that way .
The hermit raised his eyes , which were bent on the ground , and said that he had not seen a living creature .
The king , much disgusted at this news , and not knowing what to do , returned home and told his wife that , though he had ridden for miles , he had come across nothing but a hermit and a nun in a cell .
` Why those were the runaways , of course , ' she cried , flying into a passion , ` and if you had only brought a scrap of the nun 's dress , or a bit of stone from the wall , I should have had them in my power . '
At these words the king hastened back to the stable , and brought out the lean horse who travelled quicker than thought .
But his daughter saw him coming , and changed her horse into a plot of ground , herself into a rose-tree covered with roses , and the prince into a gardener .
As the king rode up , the gardener looked up from the tree which he was trimming and asked if anything was the matter .
` Have you seen a young man and a girl go by ? '
said the king , and the gardener shook his head and replied that no one had passed that way since he had been working there .
So the king turned his steps homewards and told his wife .
` Idiot ! '
cried she , ` if you had only brought me one of the roses , or a handful of earth , I should have had them in my power .
But there is no time to waste .
I shall have to go with you myself . '
The girl saw them from afar , and a great fear fell on her , for she knew her mother 's skill in magic of all kinds .
However , she determined to fight to the end , and changed the horse into a deep pool , herself into an eel , and the prince into a turtle .
But it was no use .
Her mother recognised them all , and , pulling up , asked her daughter if she did not repent and would not like to come home again .
The eel wagged ` No ' with her tail , and the queen told her husband to put a drop of water from the pool into a bottle , because it was only by that means that she could seize hold of her daughter .
The king did as he was bid , and was just in the act of drawing the bottle out of the water after he had filled it , when the turtle knocked against and spilt it all .
The king then filled it a second time , but again the turtle was too quick for him .
The queen saw that she was beaten , and called down a curse on her daughter that the prince should forget all about her .
After having relieved her feelings in this manner , she and the king went back to the palace .
The others resumed their proper shapes and continued their journey , but the princess was so silent that at last the prince asked her what was the matter .
` It is because I know you will soon forget all about me , ' said she , and though he laughed at her and told her it was impossible , she did not cease to believe it .
They rode on and on and on , till they reached the end of the world , where the prince lived , and leaving the girl in an inn he went himself to the palace to ask leave of his father to present her to him as his bride ; but in his joy at seeing his family once more he forgot all about her , and even listened when the king spoke of arranging a marriage for him .
When the poor girl heard this she wept bitterly , and cried out , ` Come to me , my sisters , for I need you badly ! '
In a moment they stood beside her , and the elder one said , ` Do not be sad , all will go well , ' and they told the innkeeper that if any of the king 's servants wanted any birds for their master they were to be sent up to them , as they had three doves for sale .
And so it fell out , and as the doves were very beautiful the servant bought them for the king , who admired them so much that he called his son to look at them .
The prince was much pleased with the doves and was coaxing them to come to him , when one fluttered on to the top of the window and said , ` If you could only hear us speak , you would admire us still more . '
And another perched on a table and added , ` Talk away , it might help him to remember ! '
And the third flew on his shoulder and whispered to him , ` Put on this ring , prince , and see if it fits you . '
And it did .
Then they hung a collar round his neck , and held a feather on which was written the name of the dove .
And at last his memory came back to him , and he declared he would marry the princess and nobody else .
So the next day the wedding took place , and they lived happy till they died .
-LRB- From the Portuguese . -RRB-
VIRGILIUS THE SORCERER Long , long ago there was born to a Roman knight and his wife Maja a little boy called Virgilius .
While he was still quite little , his father died , and the kinsmen , instead of being a help and protection to the child and his mother , robbed them of their lands and money , and the widow , fearing that they might take the boy 's life also , sent him away to Spain , that he might study in the great University of Toledo .
Virgilius was fond of books , and pored over them all day long .
But one afternoon , when the boys were given a holiday , he took a long walk , and found himself in a place where he had never been before .
In front of him was a cave , and , as no boy ever sees a cave without entering it , he went in .
The cave was so deep that it seemed to Virgilius as if it must run far into the heart of the mountain , and he thought he would like to see if it came out anywhere on the other side .
For some time he walked on in pitch darkness , but he went steadily on , and by-and-by a glimmer of light shot across the floor , and he heard a voice calling , ` Virgilius !
Virgilius ! '
` Who calls ? '
he asked , stopping and looking round .
` Virgilius ! '
answered the voice , ` do you mark upon the ground where you are standing a slide or bolt ? ' '
I do , ' replied Virgilius .
` Then , ' said the voice , ` draw back that bolt , and set me free . '
` But who are you ? '
asked Virgilius , who never did anything in a hurry . '
I am an evil spirit , ' said the voice , ` shut up here till Doomsday , unless a man sets me free .
If you will let me out I will give you some magic books , which will make you wiser than any other man . '
Now Virgilius loved wisdom , and was tempted by these promises , but again his prudence came to his aid , and he demanded that the books should be handed over to him first , and that he should be told how to use them .
The evil spirit , unable to help itself , did as Virgilius bade him , and then the bolt was drawn back .
Underneath was a small hole , and out of this the evil spirit gradually wriggled himself ; but it took some time , for when at last he stood upon the ground he proved to be about three times as large as Virgilius himself , and coal black besides .
` Why , you ca n't have been as big as that when you were in the hole ! '
cried Virgilius .
` But I was ! '
replied the spirit . '
I do n't believe it ! '
answered Virgilius .
` Well , I 'll just get in and show you , ' said the spirit , and after turning and twisting , and curling himself up , then he lay neatly packed into the hole .
Then Virgilius drew the bolt , and , picking the books up under his arm , he left the cave .
For the next few weeks Virgilius hardly ate or slept , so busy was he in learning the magic the books contained .
But at the end of that time a messenger from his mother arrived in Toledo , begging him to come at once to Rome , as she had been ill , and could look after their affairs no longer .
Though sorry to leave Toledo , where he was much thought of as showing promise of great learning , Virgilius would willingly have set out at once , but there were many things he had first to see to .
So he entrusted to the messenger four pack-horses laden with precious things , and a white palfrey on which she was to ride out every day .
Then he set about his own preparations , and , followed by a large train of scholars , he at length started for Rome , from which he had been absent twelve years .
His mother welcomed him back with tears in her eyes , and his poor kinsmen pressed round him , but the rich ones kept away , for they feared that they would no longer be able to rob their kinsman as they had done for many years past .
Of course , Virgilius paid no attention to this behaviour , though he noticed they looked with envy on the rich presents he bestowed on the poorer relations and on anyone who had been kind to his mother .
Soon after this had happened the season of tax-gathering came round , and everyone who owned land was bound to present himself before the emperor .
Like the rest , Virgilius went to court , and demanded justice from the emperor against the men who had robbed him .
But as these were kinsmen to the emperor he gained nothing , as the emperor told him he would think over the matter for the next four years , and then give judgment .
This reply naturally did not satisfy Virgilius , and , turning on his heel , he went back to his own home , and , gathering in his harvest , he stored it up in his various houses .
When the enemies of Virgilius heard of this , they assembled together and laid siege to his castle .
But Virgilius was a match for them .
Coming forth from the castle so as to meet them face to face , he cast a spell over them of such power that they could not move , and then bade them defiance .
After which he lifted the spell , and the invading army slunk back to Rome , and reported what Virgilius had said to the emperor .
Now the emperor was accustomed to have his lightest word obeyed , almost before it was uttered , and he hardly knew how to believe his ears .
But he got together another army , and marched straight off to the castle .
But directly they took up their position Virgilius girded them about with a great river , so that they could neither move hand nor foot , then , hailing the emperor , he offered him peace , and asked for his friendship .
The emperor , however , was too angry to listen to anything , so Virgilius , whose patience was exhausted , feasted his own followers in the presence of the starving host , who could not stir hand or foot .
Things seemed getting desperate , when a magician arrived in the camp and offered to sell his services to the emperor .
His proposals were gladly accepted , and in a moment the whole of the garrison sank down as if they were dead , and Virgilius himself had much ado to keep awake .
He did not know how to fight the magician , but with a great effort struggled to open his Black Book , which told him what spells to use .
In an instant all his foes seemed turned to stone , and where each man was there he stayed .
Some were half way up the ladders , some had one foot over the wall , but wherever they might chance to be there every man remained , even the emperor and his sorcerer .
All day they stayed there like flies upon the wall , but during the night Virgilius stole softly to the emperor , and offered him his freedom , as long as he would do him justice .
The emperor , who by this time was thoroughly frightened , said he would agree to anything Virgilius desired .
So Virgilius took off his spells , and , after feasting the army and bestowing on every man a gift , bade them return to Rome .
And more than that , he built a square tower for the emperor , and in each corner all that was said in that quarter of the city might be heard , while if you stood in the centre every whisper throughout Rome would reach your ears .
Having settled his affairs with the emperor and his enemies , Virgilius had time to think of other things , and his first act was to fall in love !
The lady 's name was Febilla , and her family was noble , and her face fairer than any in Rome , but she only mocked Virgilius , and was always playing tricks upon him .
To this end , she bade him one day come to visit her in the tower where she lived , promising to let down a basket to draw him up as far as the roof .
Virgilius was enchanted at this quite unexpected favour , and stepped with glee into the basket .
It was drawn up very slowly , and by-and-by came altogether to a standstill , while from above rang the voice of Febilla crying , ` Rogue of a sorcerer , there shalt thou hang ! '
And there he hung over the market-place , which was soon thronged with people , who made fun of him till he was mad with rage .
At last the emperor , hearing of his plight , commanded Febilla to release him , and Virgilius went home vowing vengeance .
The next morning every fire in Rome went out , and as there were no matches in those days this was a very serious matter .
The emperor , guessing that this was the work of Virgilius , besought him to break the spell .
Then Virgilius ordered a scaffold to be erected in the market-place , and Febilla to be brought clothed in a single white garment .
And further , he bade every one to snatch fire from the maiden , and to suffer no neighbour to kindle it .
And when the maiden appeared , clad in her white smock , flames of fire curled about her , and the Romans brought some torches , and some straw , and some shavings , and fires were kindled in Rome again .
For three days she stood there , till every hearth in Rome was alight , and then she was suffered to go where she would .
But the emperor was wroth at the vengeance of Virgilius , and threw him into prison , vowing that he should be put to death .
And when everything was ready he was led out to the Viminal Hill , where he was to die .
He went quietly with his guards , but the day was hot , and on reaching his place of execution he begged for some water .
A pail was brought , and he , crying 'Em peror , all hail !
seek for me in Sicily , ' jumped headlong into the pail , and vanished from their sight .
For some time we hear no more of Virgilius , or how he made his peace with the emperor , but the next event in his history was his being sent for to the palace to give the emperor advice how to guard Rome from foes within as well as foes without .
Virgilius spent many days in deep thought , and at length invented a plan which was known to all as the ` Preservation of Rome . '
On the roof of the Capitol , which was the most famous public building in the city , he set up statues representing the gods worshipped by every nation subject to Rome , and in the middle stood the god of Rome herself .
Each of the conquered gods held in its hand a bell , and if there was even a thought of treason in any of the countries its god turned its back upon the god of Rome and rang its bell furiously , and the senators came hurrying to see who was rebelling against the majesty of the empire .
Then they made ready their armies , and marched against the foe .
Now there was a country which had long felt bitter jealousy of Rome , and was anxious for some way of bringing about its destruction .
So the people chose three men who could be trusted , and , loading them with money , sent them to Rome , bidding them to pretend that they were diviners of dreams .
No sooner had the messengers reached the city than they stole out at night and buried a pot of gold far down in the earth , and let down another into the bed of the Tiber , just where a bridge spans the river .
Next day they went to the senate house , where the laws were made , and , bowing low , they said , ` Oh , noble lords , last night we dreamed that beneath the foot of a hill there lies buried a pot of gold .
Have we your leave to dig for it ? '
And leave having been given , the messengers took workmen and dug up the gold and made merry with it .
A few days later the diviners again appeared before the senate , and said , ` Oh , noble lords , grant us leave to seek out another treasure , which has been revealed to us in a dream as lying under the bridge over the river . '
And the senators gave leave , and the messengers hired boats and men , and let down ropes with hooks , and at length drew up the pot of gold , some of which they gave as presents to the senators .
A week or two passed by , and once more they appeared in the senate house .
` O , noble lords ! '
said they , ` last night in a vision we beheld twelve casks of gold lying under the foundation stone of the Capitol , on which stands the statue of the Preservation of Rome .
Now , seeing that by your goodness we have been greatly enriched by our former dreams , we wish , in gratitude , to bestow this third treasure on you for your own profit ; so give us workers , and we will begin to dig without delay . '
And receiving permission they began to dig , and when the messengers had almost undermined the Capitol they stole away as secretly as they had come .
And next morning the stone gave way , and the sacred statue fell on its face and was broken .
And the senators knew that their greed had been their ruin .
From that day things went from bad to worse , and every morning crowds presented themselves before the emperor , complaining of the robberies , murders , and other crimes that were committed nightly in the streets .
The emperor , desiring nothing so much as the safety of his subjects , took counsel with Virgilius how this violence could be put down .
Virgilius thought hard for a long time , and then he spoke : ` Great prince , ' said he , 'cause a copper horse and rider to be made , and stationed in front of the Capitol .
Then make a proclamation that at ten o'clock a bell will toll , and every man is to enter his house , and not leave it again . '
The emperor did as Virgilius advised , but thieves and murderers laughed at the horse , and went about their misdeeds as usual .
But at the last stroke of the bell the horse set off at full gallop through the streets of Rome , and by daylight men counted over two hundred corpses that it had trodden down .
The rest of the thieves -- and there were still many remaining -- instead of being frightened into honesty , as Virgilius had hoped , prepared rope ladders with hooks to them , and when they heard the sound of the horse 's hoofs they stuck their ladders into the walls , and climbed up above the reach of the horse and its rider .
Then the emperor commanded two copper dogs to be made that would run after the horse , and when the thieves , hanging from the walls , mocked and jeered at Virgilius and the emperor , the dogs leaped high after them and pulled them to the ground , and bit them to death .
Thus did Virgilius restore peace and order to the city .
Now about this time there came to be noised abroad the fame of the daughter of the sultan who ruled over the province of Babylon , and indeed she was said to be the most beautiful princess in the world .
Virgilius , like the rest , listened to the stories that were told of her , and fell so violently in love with all he heard that he built a bridge in the air , which stretched all the way between Rome and Babylon .
He then passed over it to visit the princess , who , though somewhat surprised to see him , gave him welcome , and after some conversation became in her turn anxious to see the distant country where this stranger lived , and he promised that he would carry her there himself , without wetting the soles of his feet .
The princess spent some days in the palace of Virgilius , looking at wonders of which she had never dreamed , though she declined to accept the presents he longed to heap on her .
The hours passed as if they were minutes , till the princess said that she could be no longer absent from her father .
Then Virgilius conducted her himself over the airy bridge , and laid her gently down on her own bed , where she was found next morning by her father .
She told him all that had happened to her , and he pretended to be very much interested , and begged that the next time Virgilius came he might be introduced to him .
Soon after , the sultan received a message from his daughter that the stranger was there , and he commanded that a feast should be made ready , and , sending for the princess delivered into her hands a cup , which he said she was to present to Virgilius herself , in order to do him honour .
When they were all seated at the feast the princess rose and presented the cup to Virgilius , who directly he had drunk fell into a deep sleep .
Then the sultan ordered his guards to bind him , and left him there till the following day .
Directly the sultan was up he summoned his lords and nobles into his great hall , and commanded that the cords which bound Virgilius should be taken off , and the prisoner brought before him .
The moment he appeared the sultan 's passion broke forth , and he accused his captive of the crime of conveying the princess into distant lands without his leave .
Virgilius replied that if he had taken her away he had also brought her back , when he might have kept her , and that if they would set him free to return to his own land he would come hither no more .
` Not so ! '
cried the sultan , ` but a shameful death you shall die ! '
And the princess fell on her knees , and begged she might die with him .
` You are out in your reckoning , Sir Sultan ! '
said Virgilius , whose patience was at an end , and he cast a spell over the sultan and his lords , so that they believed that the great river of Babylon was flowing through the hall , and that they must swim for their lives .
So , leaving them to plunge and leap like frogs and fishes , Virgilius took the princess in his arms , and carried her over the airy bridge back to Rome .
Now Virgilius did not think that either his palace , or even Rome itself , was good enough to contain such a pearl as the princess , so he built her a city whose foundations stood upon eggs , buried far away down in the depths of the sea .
And in the city was a square tower , and on the roof of the tower was a rod of iron , and across the rod he laid a bottle , and on the bottle he placed an egg , and from the egg there hung chained an apple , which hangs there to this day .
And when the egg shakes the city quakes , and when the egg shall be broken the city shall be destroyed .
And the city Virgilius filled full of wonders , such as never were seen before , and he called its name Naples .
-LRB- Adapted from ` Virgilius the Sorcerer . ' -RRB-
MOGARZEA AND HIS SON There was once a little boy , whose father and mother , when they were dying , left him to the care of a guardian .
But the guardian whom they chose turned out to be a wicked man , and spent all the money , so the boy determined to go away and strike out a path for himself .
So one day he set off , and walked and walked through woods and meadows till when evening came he was very tired , and did not know where to sleep .
He climbed a hill and looked about him to see if there was no light shining from a window .
At first all seemed dark , but at length he noticed a tiny spark far , far off , and , plucking up his spirits , he at once went in search of it .
The night was nearly half over before he reached the spark , which turned out to be a big fire , and by the fire a man was sleeping who was so tall he might have been a giant .
The boy hesitated for a moment what he should do ; then he crept close up to the man , and lay down by his legs .
When the man awoke in the morning he was much surprised to find the boy nestling up close to him .
` Dear me !
where do you come from ? '
said he . '
I am your son , born in the night , ' replied the boy .
` If that is true , ' said the man , ` you shall take care of my sheep , and I will give you food .
But take care you never cross the border of my land , or you will repent it . '
Then he pointed out where the border of his land lay , and bade the boy begin his work at once .
The young shepherd led his flock out to the richest meadows and stayed with them till evening , when he brought them back , and helped the man to milk them .
When this was done , they both sat down to supper , and while they were eating the boy asked the big man : ` What is your name , father ? '
` Mogarzea , ' answered he . '
I wonder you are not tired of living by yourself in this lonely place . '
` There is no reason you should wonder !
Do n't you know that there was never a bear yet who danced of his own free will ? '
` Yes , that is true , ' replied the boy .
` But why is it you are always so sad ?
Tell me your history , father . '
` What is the use of my telling you things that would only make you sad too ? '
` Oh , never mind that !
I should like to hear .
Are you not my father , and am I not your son ? '
` Well , if you really want to know my story , this is it : As I told you , my name is Mogarzea , and my father is an emperor .
I was on my way to the Sweet Milk Lake , which lies not far from here , to marry one of the three fairies who have made the lake their home .
But on the road three wicked elves fell on me , and robbed me of my soul , so that ever since I have stayed in this spot watching my sheep without wishing for anything different , without having felt one moment 's joy , or ever once being able to laugh .
And the horrible elves are so ill-natured that if anyone sets one foot on their land he is instantly punished .
That is why I warn you to be careful , lest you should share my fate . '
` All right , I will take great care .
Do let me go , father , ' said the boy , as they stretched themselves out to sleep .
At sunrise the boy got up and led his sheep out to feed , and for some reason he did not feel tempted to cross into the grassy meadows belonging to the elves , but let his flock pick up what pasture they could on Mogarzea 's dry ground .
On the third day he was sitting under the shadow of a tree , playing on his flute -- and there was nobody in the world who could play a flute better -- when one of his sheep strayed across the fence into the flowery fields of the elves , and another and another followed it .
But the boy was so absorbed in his flute that he noticed nothing till half the flock were on the other side .
He jumped up , still playing on his flute , and went after the sheep , meaning to drive them back to their own side of the border , when suddenly he saw before him three beautiful maidens who stopped in front of him , and began to dance .
The boy understood what he must do , and played with all his might , but the maidens danced on till evening .
` Now let me go , ' he cried at last , ` for poor Mogarzea must be dying of hunger .
I will come and play for you to-morrow . '
` Well , you may go ! '
they said , ` but remember that even if you break your promise you will not escape us . '
So they both agreed that the next day he should come straight there with the sheep , and play to them till the sun went down .
This being settled , they each returned home .
Mogarzea was surprised to find that his sheep gave so much more milk than usual , but as the boy declared he had never crossed the border the big man did not trouble his head further , and ate his supper heartily .
With the earliest gleams of light , the boy was off with his sheep to the elfin meadow , and at the first notes of his flute the maidens appeared before him and danced and danced and danced till evening came .
Then the boy let the flute slip through his fingers , and trod on it , as if by accident .
If you had heard the noise he made , and how he wrung his hands and wept and cried that he had lost his only companion , you would have been sorry for him .
The hearts of the elves were quite melted , and they did all they could to comfort him . '
I shall never find another flute like that , moaned he . '
I have never heard one whose tone was as sweet as mine !
It was cut from the centre of a seven-year-old cherry tree ! '
` There is a cherry tree in our garden that is exactly seven years old , ' said they .
` Come with us , and you shall make yourself another flute . '
So they all went to the cherry tree , and when they were standing round it the youth explained that if he tried to cut it down with an axe he might very likely split open the heart of the tree , which was needed for the flute .
In order to prevent this , he would make a little cut in the bark , just large enough for them to put their fingers in , and with this help he could manage to tear the tree in two , so that the heart should run no risk of damage .
The elves did as he told them without a thought ; then he quickly drew out the axe , which had been sticking into the cleft , and behold !
all their fingers were imprisoned tight in the tree .
It was in vain that they shrieked with pain and tried to free themselves .
They could do nothing , and the young man remained cold as marble to all their entreaties .
Then he demanded of them Mogarzea 's soul .
` Oh , well , if you must have it , it is in a bottle on the window sill , ' said they , hoping that they might obtain their freedom at once .
But they were mistaken .
` You have made so many men suffer , ' answered he sternly , ` that it is but just you should suffer yourselves , but to-morrow I will let you go . '
And he turned towards home , taking his sheep and the soul of Mogarzea with him .
Mogarzea was waiting at the door , and as the boy drew near he began scolding him for being so late .
But at the first word of explanation the man became beside himself with joy , and he sprang so high into the air that the false soul which the elves had given him flew out of his mouth , and his own , which had been shut tightly into the flask of water , took its place .
When his excitement had somewhat calmed down , he cried to the boy , ` Whether you are really my son matters nothing to me ; tell me , how can I repay you for what you have done for me ? '
` By showing me where the Milk Lake is , and how I can get one of the three fairies who lives there to wife , and by letting me remain your son for ever . '
The night was passed by Mogarzea and his son in songs and feasting , for both were too happy to sleep , and when day dawned they set out together to free the elves from the tree .
When they reached the place of their imprisonment , Mogarzea took the cherry tree and all the elves with it on his back , and carried them off to his father 's kingdom , where everyone rejoiced to see him home again .
But all he did was to point to the boy who had saved him , and had followed him with his flock .
For three days the boy stayed in the palace , receiving the thanks and praises of the whole court .
Then he said to Mogarzea : ` The time has come for me to go hence , but tell me , I pray you , how to find the Sweet Milk Lake , and I will return , and will bring my wife back with me . '
Mogarzea tried in vain to make him stay , but , finding it was useless , he told him all he knew , for he himself had never seen the lake .
For three summer days the boy and his flute journeyed on , till one evening he reached the lake , which lay in the kingdom of a powerful fairy .
The next morning had scarcely dawned when the youth went down to the shore , and began to play on his flute , and the first notes had hardly sounded when he saw a beautiful fairy standing before him , with hair and robes that shone like gold .
He gazed at her in wonder , when suddenly she began to dance .
Her movements were so graceful that he forgot to play , and as soon as the notes of his flute ceased she vanished from his sight .
The next day the same thing happened , but on the third he took courage , and drew a little nearer , playing on his flute all the while .
Suddenly he sprang forward , seized her in his arms and kissed her , and plucked a rose from her hair .
The fairy gave a cry , and begged him to give her back her rose , but he would not .
He only stuck the rose in his hat , and turned a deaf ear to all her prayers .
At last she saw that her entreaties were vain , and agreed to marry him , as he wished .
And they went together to the palace , where Mogarzea was still waiting for him , and the marriage was celebrated by the emperor himself .
But every May they returned to the Milk Lake , they and their children , and bathed in its waters .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Charles_Dickens___A_Christmas_Carol.txt.out
STAVE ONE MARLEY 'S GHOST Marley was dead , to begin with .
There is no doubt whatever about that .
The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman , the clerk , the undertaker , and the chief mourner .
Scrooge signed it .
And Scrooge 's name was good upon ` Change for anything he chose to put his hand to .
Old Marley was as dead as a door-nail .
Mind !
I do n't mean to say that I know , of my own knowledge , what there is particularly dead about a door-nail .
I might have been inclined , myself , to regard a coffin-nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade .
But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile ; and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it , or the Country 's done for .
You will , therefore , permit me to repeat , emphatically , that Marley was as dead as a door-nail .
Scrooge knew he was dead ?
Of course he did .
How could it be otherwise ?
Scrooge and he were partners for I do n't know how many years .
Scrooge was his sole executor , his sole administrator , his sole assign , his sole residuary legatee , his sole friend , and sole mourner .
And even Scrooge was not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event , but that he was an excellent man of business on the very day of the funeral , and solemnised it with an undoubted bargain .
The mention of Marley 's funeral brings me back to the point I started from .
There is no doubt that Marley was dead .
This must be distinctly understood , or nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going to relate .
If we were not perfectly convinced that Hamlet 's Father died before the play began , there would be nothing more remarkable in his taking a stroll at night , in an easterly wind , upon his own ramparts , than there would be in any other middle-aged gentleman rashly turning out after dark in a breezy spot -- say St. Paul 's Church-yard , for instance -- literally to astonish his son 's weak mind .
Scrooge never painted out Old Marley 's name .
There it stood , years afterwards , above the warehouse door : Scrooge and Marley .
The firm was known as Scrooge and Marley .
Sometimes people new to the business called Scrooge Scrooge , and sometimes Marley , but he answered to both names .
It was all the same to him .
Oh !
but he was a tight-fisted hand at the grindstone , Scrooge !
a squeezing , wrenching , grasping , scraping , clutching , covetous , old sinner !
Hard and sharp as flint , from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire ; secret , and self-contained , and solitary as an oyster .
The cold within him froze his old features , nipped his pointed nose , shrivelled his cheek , stiffened his gait ; made his eyes red , his thin lips blue ; and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice .
A frosty rime was on his head , and on his eyebrows , and his wiry chin .
He carried his own low temperature always about with him ; he iced his office in the dog-days ; and did n't thaw it one degree at Christmas .
External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge .
No warmth could warm , no wintry weather chill him .
No wind that blew was bitterer than he , no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose , no pelting rain less open to entreaty .
Foul weather did n't know where to have him .
The heaviest rain , and snow , and hail , and sleet could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect .
They often `` came down '' handsomely and Scrooge never did .
Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say , with gladsome looks , `` My dear Scrooge , how are you ?
When will you come to see me ? ''
No beggars implored him to bestow a trifle , no children asked him what it was o'clock , no man or woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and such a place , of Scrooge .
Even the blind men 's dogs appeared to know him ; and , when they saw him coming on , would tug their owners into doorways and up courts ; and then would wag their tails as though they said , `` No eye at all is better than an evil eye , dark master ! ''
But what did Scrooge care ?
It was the very thing he liked .
To edge his way along the crowded paths of life , warning all human sympathy to keep its distance , was what the knowing ones call `` nuts '' to Scrooge .
Once upon a time -- of all the good days in the year , on Christmas Eve -- old Scrooge sat busy in his counting-house .
It was cold , bleak , biting weather : foggy withal : and he could hear the people in the court outside go wheezing up and down , beating their hands upon their breasts , and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them .
The City clocks had only just gone three , but it was quite dark already -- it had not been light all day -- and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices , like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air .
The fog came pouring in at every chink and keyhole , and was so dense without , that , although the court was of the narrowest , the houses opposite were mere phantoms .
To see the dingy cloud come drooping down , obscuring everything , one might have thought that nature lived hard by and was brewing on a large scale .
The door of Scrooge 's counting-house was open , that he might keep his eye upon his clerk , who in a dismal little cell beyond , a sort of tank , was copying letters .
Scrooge had a very small fire , but the clerk 's fire was so very much smaller that it looked like one coal .
But he could n't replenish it , for Scrooge kept the coal-box in his own room ; and so surely as the clerk came in with the shovel , the master predicted that it would be necessary for them to part .
Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter , and tried to warm himself at the candle ; in which effort , not being a man of strong imagination , he failed .
`` A merry Christmas , uncle !
God save you ! ''
cried a cheerful voice .
It was the voice of Scrooge 's nephew , who came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he had of his approach .
`` Bah ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` Humbug ! ''
He had so heated himself with rapid walking in the fog and frost , this nephew of Scrooge 's , that he was all in a glow ; his face was ruddy and handsome ; his eyes sparkled , and his breath smoked again .
`` Christmas a humbug , uncle ! ''
said Scrooge 's nephew .
`` You do n't mean that , I am sure ? ''
`` I do , '' said Scrooge .
`` Merry Christmas !
What right have you to be merry ?
What reason have you to be merry ?
You 're poor enough . ''
`` Come , then , '' returned the nephew gaily .
`` What right have you to be dismal ?
What reason have you to be morose ?
You 're rich enough . ''
Scrooge , having no better answer ready on the spur of the moment , said , `` Bah ! ''
again ; and followed it up with `` Humbug ! ''
`` Do n't be cross , uncle ! ''
said the nephew .
-LSB- Illustration : `` A Merry Christmas , uncle !
God save you ! ''
cried a cheerful voice .
-RSB- `` What else can I be , '' returned the uncle , `` when I live in such a world of fools as this ?
Merry Christmas !
Out upon merry Christmas !
What 's Christmas-time to you but a time for paying bills without money ; a time for finding yourself a year older , and not an hour richer ; a time for balancing your books , and having every item in 'em through a round dozen of months presented dead against you ?
If I could work my will , '' said Scrooge indignantly , `` every idiot who goes about with ` Merry Christmas ' on his lips should be boiled with his own pudding , and buried with a stake of holly through his heart .
He should ! ''
`` Uncle ! ''
pleaded the nephew .
`` Nephew ! ''
returned the uncle sternly , `` keep Christmas in your own way , and let me keep it in mine . ''
`` Keep it ! ''
repeated Scrooge 's nephew .
`` But you do n't keep it . ''
`` Let me leave it alone , then , '' said Scrooge .
`` Much good may it do you !
Much good it has ever done you ! ''
`` There are many things from which I might have derived good , by which I have not profited , I dare say , '' returned the nephew ; `` Christmas among the rest .
But I am sure I have always thought of Christmas-time , when it has come round -- apart from the veneration due to its sacred name and origin , if anything belonging to it can be apart from that -- as a good time ; a kind , forgiving , charitable , pleasant time ; the only time I know of , in the long calendar of the year , when men and women seem by one consent to open their shut-up hearts freely , and to think of people below them as if they really were fellow-passengers to the grave , and not another race of creatures bound on other journeys .
And therefore , uncle , though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket , I believe that it has done me good , and will do me good ; and I say , God bless it ! ''
The clerk in the tank involuntarily applauded .
Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety , he poked the fire , and extinguished the last frail spark for ever .
`` Let me hear another sound from you , '' said Scrooge , `` and you 'll keep your Christmas by losing your situation !
You 're quite a powerful speaker , sir , '' he added , turning to his nephew .
`` I wonder you do n't go into Parliament . ''
`` Do n't be angry , uncle .
Come !
Dine with us to-morrow . ''
Scrooge said that he would see him -- Yes , indeed he did .
He went the whole length of the expression , and said that he would see him in that extremity first .
`` But why ? ''
cried Scrooge 's nephew .
`` Why ? ''
`` Why did you get married ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` Because I fell in love . ''
`` Because you fell in love ! ''
growled Scrooge , as if that were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas .
`` Good afternoon ! ''
`` Nay , uncle , but you never came to see me before that happened .
Why give it as a reason for not coming now ? ''
`` Good afternoon , '' said Scrooge .
`` I want nothing from you ; I ask nothing of you ; why can not we be friends ? ''
`` Good afternoon ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` I am sorry , with all my heart , to find you so resolute .
We have never had any quarrel to which I have been a party .
But I have made the trial in homage to Christmas , and I 'll keep my Christmas humour to the last .
So A Merry Christmas , uncle ! ''
`` Good afternoon , '' said Scrooge .
`` And A Happy New Year ! ''
`` Good afternoon ! ''
said Scrooge .
His nephew left the room without an angry word , notwithstanding .
He stopped at the outer door to bestow the greetings of the season on the clerk , who , cold as he was , was warmer than Scrooge ; for he returned them cordially .
`` There 's another fellow , '' muttered Scrooge , who overheard him : `` my clerk , with fifteen shillings a week , and a wife and family , talking about a merry Christmas .
I 'll retire to Bedlam . ''
This lunatic , in letting Scrooge 's nephew out , had let two other people in .
They were portly gentlemen , pleasant to behold , and now stood , with their hats off , in Scrooge 's office .
They had books and papers in their hands , and bowed to him .
`` Scrooge and Marley 's , I believe , '' said one of the gentlemen , referring to his list .
`` Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr. Scrooge , or Mr. Marley ? ''
`` Mr. Marley has been dead these seven years , '' Scrooge replied .
`` He died seven years ago , this very night . ''
`` We have no doubt his liberality is well represented by his surviving partner , '' said the gentleman , presenting his credentials .
It certainly was ; for they had been two kindred spirits .
At the ominous word `` liberality '' Scrooge frowned , and shook his head , and handed the credentials back .
`` At this festive season of the year , Mr. Scrooge , '' said the gentleman , taking up a pen , `` it is more than usually desirable that we should make some slight provision for the poor and destitute , who suffer greatly at the present time .
Many thousands are in want of common necessaries ; hundreds of thousands are in want of common comforts , sir . ''
`` Are there no prisons ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` Plenty of prisons , '' said the gentleman , laying down the pen again .
`` And the Union workhouses ? ''
demanded Scrooge .
`` Are they still in operation ? ''
`` They are .
Still , '' returned the gentleman , `` I wish I could say they were not . ''
`` The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full vigour , then ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` Both very busy , sir . ''
`` Oh !
I was afraid , from what you said at first , that something had occurred to stop them in their useful course , '' said Scrooge .
`` I am very glad to hear it . ''
`` Under the impression that they scarcely furnish Christian cheer of mind or body to the multitude , '' returned the gentleman , `` a few of us are endeavouring to raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and drink , and means of warmth .
We choose this time , because it is a time , of all others , when Want is keenly felt , and Abundance rejoices .
What shall I put you down for ? ''
`` Nothing ! ''
Scrooge replied .
`` You wish to be anonymous ? ''
`` I wish to be left alone , '' said Scrooge .
`` Since you ask me what I wish , gentlemen , that is my answer .
I do n't make merry myself at Christmas , and I ca n't afford to make idle people merry .
I help to support the establishments I have mentioned -- they cost enough ; and those who are badly off must go there . ''
`` Many ca n't go there ; and many would rather die . ''
`` If they would rather die , '' said Scrooge , `` they had better do it , and decrease the surplus population .
Besides -- excuse me -- I do n't know that . ''
`` But you might know it , '' observed the gentleman .
`` It 's not my business , '' Scrooge returned .
`` It 's enough for a man to understand his own business , and not to interfere with other people 's .
Mine occupies me constantly .
Good afternoon , gentlemen ! ''
Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point , the gentlemen withdrew .
Scrooge resumed his labours with an improved opinion of himself , and in a more facetious temper than was usual with him .
Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so , that people ran about with flaring links , proffering their services to go before horses in carriages , and conduct them on their way .
The ancient tower of a church , whose gruff old bell was always peeping slily down at Scrooge out of a Gothic window in the wall , became invisible , and struck the hours and quarters in the clouds , with tremulous vibrations afterwards , as if its teeth were chattering in its frozen head up there .
The cold became intense .
In the main street , at the corner of the court , some labourers were repairing the gas-pipes , and had lighted a great fire in a brazier , round which a party of ragged men and boys were gathered : warming their hands and winking their eyes before the blaze in rapture .
The water-plug being left in solitude , its overflowings suddenly congealed , and turned to misanthropic ice .
The brightness of the shops , where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows , made pale faces ruddy as they passed .
Poulterers ' and grocers ' trades became a splendid joke : a glorious pageant , with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do .
The Lord Mayor , in the stronghold of the mighty Mansion House , gave orders to his fifty cooks and butlers to keep Christmas as a Lord Mayor 's household should ; and even the little tailor , whom he had fined five shillings on the previous Monday for being drunk and blood-thirsty in the streets , stirred up to-morrow 's pudding in his garret , while his lean wife and the baby sallied out to buy the beef .
Foggier yet , and colder !
Piercing , searching , biting cold .
If the good St. Dunstan had but nipped the Evil Spirit 's nose with a touch of such weather as that , instead of using his familiar weapons , then indeed he would have roared to lusty purpose .
The owner of one scant young nose , gnawed and mumbled by the hungry cold as bones are gnawed by dogs , stooped down at Scrooge 's keyhole to regale him with a Christmas carol ; but , at the first sound of `` God bless you , merry gentleman , May nothing you dismay ! ''
Scrooge seized the ruler with such energy of action , that the singer fled in terror , leaving the keyhole to the fog , and even more congenial frost .
At length the hour of shutting up the counting-house arrived .
With an ill-will Scrooge dismounted from his stool , and tacitly admitted the fact to the expectant clerk in the tank , who instantly snuffed his candle out , and put on his hat .
`` You 'll want all day to-morrow , I suppose ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` If quite convenient , sir . ''
`` It 's not convenient , '' said Scrooge , `` and it 's not fair .
If I was to stop half-a-crown for it , you 'd think yourself ill used , I 'll be bound ? ''
The clerk smiled faintly .
`` And yet , '' said Scrooge , `` you do n't think me ill used when I pay a day 's wages for no work . ''
The clerk observed that it was only once a year .
`` A poor excuse for picking a man 's pocket every twenty-fifth of December ! ''
said Scrooge , buttoning his great-coat to the chin .
`` But I suppose you must have the whole day .
Be here all the earlier next morning . ''
The clerk promised that he would ; and Scrooge walked out with a growl .
The office was closed in a twinkling , and the clerk , with the long ends of his white comforter dangling below his waist -LRB- for he boasted no great-coat -RRB- , went down a slide on Cornhill , at the end of a lane of boys , twenty times , in honour of its being Christmas-eve , and then ran home to Camden Town as hard as he could pelt , to play at blindman 's buff .
Scrooge took his melancholy dinner in his usual melancholy tavern ; and having read all the newspapers , and beguiled the rest of the evening with his banker 's book , went home to bed .
He lived in chambers which had once belonged to his deceased partner .
They were a gloomy suite of rooms , in a lowering pile of building up a yard , where it had so little business to be , that one could scarcely help fancying it must have run there when it was a young house , playing at hide-and-seek with other houses , and have forgotten the way out again .
It was old enough now , and dreary enough ; for nobody lived in it but Scrooge , the other rooms being all let out as offices .
The yard was so dark that even Scrooge , who knew its every stone , was fain to grope with his hands .
The fog and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house , that it seemed as if the Genius of the Weather sat in mournful meditation on the threshold .
Now , it is a fact that there was nothing at all particular about the knocker on the door , except that it was very large .
It is also a fact that Scrooge had seen it , night and morning , during his whole residence in that place ; also that Scrooge had as little of what is called fancy about him as any man in the City of London , even including -- which is a bold word -- the corporation , aldermen , and livery .
Let it also be borne in mind that Scrooge had not bestowed one thought on Marley since his last mention of his seven-years ' - dead partner that afternoon .
And then let any man explain to me , if he can , how it happened that Scrooge , having his key in the lock of the door , saw in the knocker , without its undergoing any intermediate process of change -- not a knocker , but Marley 's face .
Marley 's face .
It was not in impenetrable shadow , as the other objects in the yard were , but had a dismal light about it , like a bad lobster in a dark cellar .
It was not angry or ferocious , but looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look : with ghostly spectacles turned up on its ghostly forehead .
The hair was curiously stirred , as if by breath of hot air ; and , though the eyes were wide open , they were perfectly motionless .
That , and its livid colour , made it horrible ; but its horror seemed to be in spite of the face , and beyond its control , rather than a part of its own expression .
As Scrooge looked fixedly at this phenomenon , it was a knocker again .
To say that he was not startled , or that his blood was not conscious of a terrible sensation to which it had been a stranger from infancy , would be untrue .
But he put his hand upon the key he had relinquished , turned it sturdily , walked in , and lighted his candle .
He did pause , with a moment 's irresolution , before he shut the door ; and he did look cautiously behind it first , as if he half expected to be terrified with the sight of Marley 's pigtail sticking out into the hall .
But there was nothing on the back of the door , except the screws and nuts that held the knocker on , so he said , `` Pooh , pooh ! ''
and closed it with a bang .
The sound resounded through the house like thunder .
Every room above , and every cask in the wine merchant 's cellars below , appeared to have a separate peal of echoes of its own .
Scrooge was not a man to be frightened by echoes .
He fastened the door , and walked across the hall , and up the stairs : slowly , too : trimming his candle as he went .
You may talk vaguely about driving a coach and six up a good old flight of stairs , or through a bad young Act of Parliament ; but I mean to say you might have got a hearse up that staircase , and taken it broadwise , with the splinter-bar towards the wall , and the door towards the balustrades : and done it easy .
There was plenty of width for that , and room to spare ; which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom .
Half-a-dozen gas-lamps out of the street would n't have lighted the entry too well , so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with Scrooge 's dip .
Up Scrooge went , not caring a button for that .
Darkness is cheap , and Scrooge liked it .
But , before he shut his heavy door , he walked through his rooms to see that all was right .
He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that .
Sitting-room , bedroom , lumber-room .
All as they should be .
Nobody under the table , nobody under the sofa ; a small fire in the grate ; spoon and basin ready ; and the little saucepan of gruel -LRB- Scrooge had a cold in his head -RRB- upon the hob .
Nobody under the bed ; nobody in the closet ; nobody in his dressing-gown , which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude against the wall .
Lumber-room as usual .
Old fire-guard , old shoes , two fish baskets , washing-stand on three legs , and a poker .
Quite satisfied , he closed his door , and locked himself in ; double locked himself in , which was not his custom .
Thus secured against surprise , he took off his cravat ; put on his dressing-gown and slippers , and his nightcap ; and sat down before the fire to take his gruel .
It was a very low fire indeed ; nothing on such a bitter night .
He was obliged to sit close to it , and brood over it , before he could extract the least sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel .
The fire-place was an old one , built by some Dutch merchant long ago , and paved all round with quaint Dutch tiles , designed to illustrate the Scriptures .
There were Cains and Abels , Pharaoh 's daughters , Queens of Sheba , Angelic messengers descending through the air on clouds like feather beds , Abrahams , Belshazzars , Apostles putting off to sea in butter-boats , hundreds of figures to attract his thoughts ; and yet that face of Marley , seven years dead , came like the ancient Prophet 's rod , and swallowed up the whole .
If each smooth tile had been a blank at first , with power to shape some picture on its surface from the disjointed fragments of his thoughts , there would have been a copy of old Marley 's head on every one .
`` Humbug ! ''
said Scrooge ; and walked across the room .
After several turns he sat down again .
As he threw his head back in the chair , his glance happened to rest upon a bell , a disused bell , that hung in the room , and communicated , for some purpose now forgotten , with a chamber in the highest story of the building .
It was with great astonishment , and with a strange , inexplicable dread , that , as he looked , he saw this bell begin to swing .
It swung so softly in the outset that it scarcely made a sound ; but soon it rang out loudly , and so did every bell in the house .
This might have lasted half a minute , or a minute , but it seemed an hour .
The bells ceased , as they had begun , together .
They were succeeded by a clanking noise , deep down below , as if some person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine merchant 's cellar .
Scrooge then remembered to have heard that ghosts in haunted houses were described as dragging chains .
The cellar door flew open with a booming sound , and then he heard the noise much louder on the floors below ; then coming up the stairs ; then coming straight towards his door .
`` It 's humbug still ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` I wo n't believe it . ''
His colour changed , though , when , without a pause , it came on through the heavy door , and passed into the room before his eyes .
Upon its coming in , the dying flame leaped up , as though it cried , `` I know him !
Marley 's Ghost ! ''
and fell again .
The same face : the very same .
Marley in his pigtail , usual waistcoat , tights , and boots ; the tassels on the latter bristling , like his pigtail , and his coat-skirts , and the hair upon his head .
The chain he drew was clasped about his middle .
It was long , and wound about him like a tail ; and it was made -LRB- for Scrooge observed it closely -RRB- of cash-boxes , keys , padlocks , ledgers , deeds , and heavy purses wrought in steel .
His body was transparent ; so that Scrooge , observing him , and looking through his waistcoat , could see the two buttons on his coat behind .
Scrooge had often heard it said that Marley had no bowels , but he had never believed it until now .
No , nor did he believe it even now .
Though he looked the phantom through and through , and saw it standing before him ; though he felt the chilling influence of its death-cold eyes ; and marked the very texture of the folded kerchief bound about its head and chin , which wrapper he had not observed before ; he was still incredulous , and fought against his senses .
`` How now ! ''
said Scrooge , caustic and cold as ever .
`` What do you want with me ? ''
`` Much ! ''
-- Marley 's voice , no doubt about it .
`` Who are you ? ''
`` Ask me who I was . ''
`` Who were you , then ? ''
said Scrooge , raising his voice .
`` You 're particular , for a shade . ''
He was going to say '' to a shade , '' but substituted this , as more appropriate .
`` In life I was your partner , Jacob Marley . ''
`` Can you -- can you sit down ? ''
asked Scrooge , looking doubtfully at him .
`` I can . ''
`` Do it , then . ''
Scrooge asked the question , because he did n't know whether a ghost so transparent might find himself in a condition to take a chair ; and felt that , in the event of its being impossible , it might involve the necessity of an embarrassing explanation .
But the Ghost sat down on the opposite side of the fire-place , as if he were quite used to it .
`` You do n't believe in me , '' observed the Ghost .
`` I do n't , '' said Scrooge .
`` What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your own senses ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' said Scrooge .
`` Why do you doubt your senses ? ''
`` Because , '' said Scrooge , `` a little thing affects them .
A slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats .
You may be an undigested bit of beef , a blot of mustard , a crumb of cheese , a fragment of an underdone potato .
There 's more of gravy than of grave about you , whatever you are ! ''
Scrooge was not much in the habit of cracking jokes , nor did he feel in his heart by any means waggish then .
The truth is , that he tried to be smart , as a means of distracting his own attention , and keeping down his terror ; for the spectre 's voice disturbed the very marrow in his bones .
To sit staring at those fixed glazed eyes in silence , for a moment , would play , Scrooge felt , the very deuce with him .
There was something very awful , too , in the spectre 's being provided with an infernal atmosphere of his own .
Scrooge could not feel it himself , but this was clearly the case ; for though the Ghost sat perfectly motionless , its hair , and skirts , and tassels were still agitated as by the hot vapour from an oven .
`` You see this toothpick ? ''
said Scrooge , returning quickly to the charge , for the reason just assigned ; and wishing , though it were only for a second , to divert the vision 's stony gaze from himself .
`` I do , '' replied the Ghost .
`` You are not looking at it , '' said Scrooge .
`` But I see it , '' said the Ghost , `` notwithstanding . ''
`` Well ! ''
returned Scrooge , `` I have but to swallow this , and be for the rest of my days persecuted by a legion of goblins , all of my own creation .
Humbug , I tell you ; humbug ! ''
At this the spirit raised a frightful cry , and shook its chain with such a dismal and appalling noise , that Scrooge held on tight to his chair , to save himself from falling in a swoon .
But how much greater was his horror when the phantom , taking off the bandage round his head , as if it were too warm to wear indoors , its lower jaw dropped down upon its breast !
Scrooge fell upon his knees , and clasped his hands before his face .
`` Mercy ! ''
he said .
`` Dreadful apparition , why do you trouble me ? ''
`` Man of the worldly mind ! ''
replied the Ghost , `` do you believe in me or not ? ''
`` I do , '' said Scrooge .
`` I must .
But why do spirits walk the earth , and why do they come to me ? ''
-LSB- Illustration : To sit staring at those fixed glazed eyes in silence , for a moment , would play , Scrooge felt , the very deuce with him .
-RSB- `` It is required of every man , '' the Ghost returned , `` that the spirit within him should walk abroad among his fellow-men , and travel far and wide ; and , if that spirit goes not forth in life , it is condemned to do so after death .
It is doomed to wander through the world -- oh , woe is me !
-- and witness what it can not share , but might have shared on earth , and turned to happiness ! ''
Again the spectre raised a cry , and shook its chain and wrung its shadowy hands .
`` You are fettered , '' said Scrooge , trembling .
`` Tell me why ? ''
`` I wear the chain I forged in life , '' replied the Ghost .
`` I made it link by link , and yard by yard ; I girded it on of my own free-will , and of my own free-will I wore it .
Is its pattern strange to you ? ''
Scrooge trembled more and more .
`` Or would you know , '' pursued the Ghost , `` the weight and length of the strong coil you bear yourself ?
It was full as heavy and as long as this , seven Christmas-eves ago .
You have laboured on it since .
It is a ponderous chain ! ''
Scrooge glanced about him on the floor , in the expectation of finding himself surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of iron cable , but he could see nothing .
`` Jacob ! ''
he said imploringly .
`` Old Jacob Marley , tell me more !
Speak comfort to me , Jacob ! ''
`` I have none to give , '' the Ghost replied .
`` It comes from other regions , Ebenezer Scrooge , and is conveyed by other ministers , to other kinds of men .
Nor can I tell you what I would .
A very little more is all permitted to me .
I can not rest , I can not stay , I can not linger anywhere .
My spirit never walked beyond our counting-house -- mark me ; -- in life my spirit never roved beyond the narrow limits of our money-changing hole ; and weary journeys lie before me ! ''
It was a habit with Scrooge , whenever he became thoughtful , to put his hands in his breeches pockets .
Pondering on what the Ghost had said , he did so now , but without lifting up his eyes , or getting off his knees .
`` You must have been very slow about it , Jacob , '' Scrooge observed in a business-like manner , though with humility and deference .
`` Slow ! ''
the Ghost repeated .
`` Seven years dead , '' mused Scrooge .
`` And travelling all the time ? ''
`` The whole time , '' said the Ghost .
`` No rest , no peace .
Incessant torture of remorse . ''
`` You travel fast ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` On the wings of the wind , '' replied the Ghost .
`` You might have got over a great quantity of ground in seven years , '' said Scrooge .
The Ghost , on hearing this , set up another cry , and clanked its chain so hideously in the dead silence of the night , that the Ward would have been justified in indicting it for a nuisance .
`` Oh !
captive , bound , and double-ironed , '' cried the phantom , `` not to know that ages of incessant labour , by immortal creatures , for this earth must pass into eternity before the good of which it is susceptible is all developed !
Not to know that any Christian spirit working kindly in its little sphere , whatever it may be , will find its mortal life too short for its vast means of usefulness !
Not to know that no space of regret can make amends for one life 's opportunities misused !
Yet such was I !
Oh , such was I ! ''
`` But you were always a good man of business , Jacob , '' faltered Scrooge , who now began to apply this to himself .
`` Business ! ''
cried the Ghost , wringing its hands again .
`` Mankind was my business .
The common welfare was my business ; charity , mercy , forbearance , and benevolence were , all , my business .
The dealings of my trade were but a drop of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business ! ''
It held up its chain at arm 's length , as if that were the cause of all its unavailing grief , and flung it heavily upon the ground again .
`` At this time of the rolling year , '' the spectre said , `` I suffer most .
Why did I walk through crowds of fellow-beings with my eyes turned down , and never raise them to that blessed Star which led the Wise Men to a poor abode ?
Were there no poor homes to which its light would have conducted me ? ''
Scrooge was very much dismayed to hear the spectre going on at this rate , and began to quake exceedingly .
`` Hear me ! ''
cried the Ghost .
`` My time is nearly gone . ''
`` I will , '' said Scrooge .
`` But do n't be hard upon me !
Do n't be flowery , Jacob !
Pray ! ''
`` How it is that I appear before you in a shape that you can see , I may not tell .
I have sat invisible beside you many and many a day . ''
It was not an agreeable idea .
Scrooge shivered , and wiped the perspiration from his brow .
`` That is no light part of my penance , '' pursued the Ghost .
`` I am here to-night to warn you that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate .
A chance and hope of my procuring , Ebenezer . ''
`` You were always a good friend to me , '' said Scrooge .
`` Thankee ! ''
`` You will be haunted , '' resumed the Ghost , `` by Three Spirits . ''
Scrooge 's countenance fell almost as low as the Ghost 's had done .
`` Is that the chance and hope you mentioned , Jacob ? ''
he demanded in a faltering voice .
`` It is . ''
`` I -- I think I 'd rather not , '' said Scrooge .
`` Without their visits , '' said the Ghost , `` you can not hope to shun the path I tread .
Expect the first to-morrow when the bell tolls One . ''
`` Could n't I take 'em all at once , and have it over , Jacob ? ''
hinted Scrooge .
`` Expect the second on the next night at the same hour .
The third , upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased to vibrate .
Look to see me no more ; and look that , for your own sake , you remember what has passed between us ! ''
When it had said these words , the spectre took its wrapper from the table , and bound it round its head as before .
Scrooge knew this by the smart sound its teeth made when the jaws were brought together by the bandage .
He ventured to raise his eyes again , and found his supernatural visitor confronting him in an erect attitude , with its chain wound over and about its arm .
The apparition walked backward from him ; and , at every step it took , the window raised itself a little , so that , when the spectre reached it , it was wide open .
It beckoned Scrooge to approach , which he did .
When they were within two paces of each other , Marley 's Ghost held up its hand , warning him to come no nearer .
Scrooge stopped .
Not so much in obedience as in surprise and fear ; for , on the raising of the hand , he became sensible of confused noises in the air ; incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret ; wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory .
The spectre , after listening for a moment , joined in the mournful dirge ; and floated out upon the bleak , dark night .
Scrooge followed to the window : desperate in his curiosity .
He looked out .
The air was filled with phantoms , wandering hither and thither in restless haste , and moaning as they went .
Every one of them wore chains like Marley 's Ghost ; some few -LRB- they might be guilty governments -RRB- were linked together ; none were free .
Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives .
He had been quite familiar with one old ghost in a white waistcoat , with a monstrous iron safe attached to its ankle , who cried piteously at being unable to assist a wretched woman with an infant , whom it saw below upon a doorstep .
The misery with them all was , clearly , that they sought to interfere , for good , in human matters , and had lost the power for ever .
Whether these creatures faded into mist , or mist enshrouded them , he could not tell .
But they and their spirit voices faded together ; and the night became as it had been when he walked home .
Scrooge closed the window , and examined the door by which the Ghost had entered .
It was double locked , as he had locked it with his own hands , and the bolts were undisturbed .
He tried to say `` Humbug ! ''
but stopped at the first syllable .
And being , from the emotion he had undergone , or the fatigues of the day , or his glimpse of the Invisible World , or the dull conversation of the Ghost , or the lateness of the hour , much in need of repose , went straight to bed without undressing , and fell asleep upon the instant .
STAVE TWO THE FIRST OF THE THREE SPIRITS When Scrooge awoke it was so dark , that , looking out of bed , he could scarcely distinguish the transparent window from the opaque walls of his chamber .
He was endeavouring to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes , when the chimes of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters .
So he listened for the hour .
To his great astonishment , the heavy bell went on from six to seven , and from seven to eight , and regularly up to twelve ; then stopped .
Twelve !
It was past two when he went to bed .
The clock was wrong .
An icicle must have got into the works .
Twelve !
He touched the spring of his repeater , to correct this most preposterous clock .
Its rapid little pulse beat twelve , and stopped .
`` Why , it is n't possible , '' said Scrooge , `` that I can have slept through a whole day and far into another night .
It is n't possible that anything has happened to the sun , and this is twelve at noon ! ''
The idea being an alarming one , he scrambled out of bed , and groped his way to the window .
He was obliged to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown before he could see anything ; and could see very little then .
All he could make out was , that it was still very foggy and extremely cold , and that there was no noise of people running to and fro , and making a great stir , as there unquestionably would have been if night had beaten off bright day , and taken possession of the world .
This was a great relief , because `` Three days after sight of this First of Exchange pay to Mr. Ebenezer Scrooge or his order , '' and so forth , would have become a mere United States security if there were no days to count by .
Scrooge went to bed again , and thought , and thought , and thought it over and over , and could make nothing of it .
The more he thought , the more perplexed he was ; and , the more he endeavoured not to think , the more he thought .
Marley 's Ghost bothered him exceedingly .
Every time he resolved within himself , after mature inquiry , that it was all a dream , his mind flew back again , like a strong spring released , to its first position , and presented the same problem to be worked all through , `` Was it a dream or not ? ''
Scrooge lay in this state until the chime had gone three quarters more , when he remembered , on a sudden , that the Ghost had warned him of a visitation when the bell tolled one .
He resolved to lie awake until the hour was passed ; and , considering that he could no more go to sleep than go to Heaven , this was , perhaps , the wisest resolution in his power .
The quarter was so long , that he was more than once convinced he must have sunk into a doze unconsciously , and missed the clock .
At length it broke upon his listening ear .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` A quarter past , '' said Scrooge , counting .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` Half past , '' said Scrooge .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` A quarter to it , '' said Scrooge .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` The hour itself , '' said Scrooge triumphantly , `` and nothing else ! ''
He spoke before the hour bell sounded , which it now did with a deep , dull , hollow , melancholy ONE .
Light flashed up in the room upon the instant , and the curtains of his bed were drawn .
The curtains of his bed were drawn aside , I tell you , by a hand .
Not the curtains at his feet , nor the curtains at his back , but those to which his face was addressed .
The curtains of his bed were drawn aside ; and Scrooge , starting up into a half-recumbent attitude , found himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who drew them : as close to it as I am now to you , and I am standing in the spirit at your elbow .
It was a strange figure -- like a child : yet not so like a child as like an old man , viewed through some supernatural medium , which gave him the appearance of having receded from the view , and being diminished to a child 's proportions .
Its hair , which hung about its neck and down its back , was white , as if with age ; and yet the face had not a wrinkle in it , and the tenderest bloom was on the skin .
The arms were very long and muscular ; the hands the same , as if its hold were of uncommon strength .
Its legs and feet , most delicately formed , were , like those upper members , bare .
It wore a tunic of the purest white ; and round its waist was bound a lustrous belt , the sheen of which was beautiful .
It held a branch of fresh green holly in its hand : and , in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem , had its dress trimmed with summer flowers .
But the strangest thing about it was , that from the crown of its head there sprung a bright clear jet of light , by which all this was visible ; and which was doubtless the occasion of its using , in its duller moments , a great extinguisher for a cap , which it now held under its arm .
Even this , though , when Scrooge looked at it with increasing steadiness , was not its strangest quality .
For , as its belt sparkled and glittered , now in one part and now in another , and what was light one instant at another time was dark , so the figure itself fluctuated in its distinctness : being now a thing with one arm , now with one leg , now with twenty legs , now a pair of legs without a head , now a head without a body : of which dissolving parts no outline would be visible in the dense gloom wherein they melted away .
And , in the very wonder of this , it would be itself again ; distinct and clear as ever .
`` Are you the Spirit , sir , whose coming was foretold to me ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` I am ! ''
The voice was soft and gentle .
Singularly low , as if , instead of being so close beside him , it were at a distance .
`` Who and what are you ? ''
Scrooge demanded .
`` I am the Ghost of Christmas Past . ''
`` Long Past ? ''
inquired Scrooge ; observant of its dwarfish stature .
`` No .
Your past . ''
Perhaps Scrooge could not have told anybody why , if anybody could have asked him ; but he had a special desire to see the Spirit in his cap ; and begged him to be covered .
`` What ! ''
exclaimed the Ghost , `` would you so soon put out , with worldly hands , the light I give ?
Is it not enough that you are one of those whose passions made this cap , and force me through whole trains of years to wear it low upon my brow ? ''
Scrooge reverently disclaimed all intention to offend or any knowledge of having wilfully `` bonneted '' the Spirit at any period of his life .
He then made bold to inquire what business brought him there .
`` Your welfare ! ''
said the Ghost .
Scrooge expressed himself much obliged , but could not help thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been more conducive to that end .
The Spirit must have heard him thinking , for it said immediately : `` Your reclamation , then .
Take heed ! ''
It put out its strong hand as it spoke , and clasped him gently by the arm .
`` Rise !
and walk with me ! ''
It would have been in vain for Scrooge to plead that the weather and the hour were not adapted to pedestrian purposes ; that bed was warm , and the thermometer a long way below freezing ; that he was clad but lightly in his slippers , dressing-gown , and nightcap ; and that he had a cold upon him at that time .
The grasp , though gentle as a woman 's hand , was not to be resisted .
He rose : but , finding that the Spirit made towards the window , clasped its robe in supplication .
`` I am a mortal , '' Scrooge remonstrated , `` and liable to fall . ''
`` Bear but a touch of my hand there , '' said the Spirit , laying it upon his heart , `` and you shall be upheld in more than this ! ''
As the words were spoken , they passed through the wall , and stood upon an open country road , with fields on either hand .
The city had entirely vanished .
Not a vestige of it was to be seen .
The darkness and the mist had vanished with it , for it was a clear , cold , winter day , with the snow upon the ground .
`` Good Heaven ! ''
said Scrooge , clasping his hands together as he looked about him .
`` I was bred in this place .
I was a boy here ! ''
The Spirit gazed upon him mildly .
Its gentle touch , though it had been light and instantaneous , appeared still present to the old man 's sense of feeling .
He was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air , each one connected with a thousand thoughts , and hopes , and joys , and cares long , long forgotten !
`` Your lip is trembling , '' said the Ghost .
`` And what is that upon your cheek ? ''
Scrooge muttered , with an unusual catching in his voice , that it was a pimple ; and begged the Ghost to lead him where he would .
`` You recollect the way ? ''
inquired the Spirit .
`` Remember it ! ''
cried Scrooge with fervour ; `` I could walk it blindfold . ''
`` Strange to have forgotten it for so many years ! ''
observed the Ghost .
`` Let us go on . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` You recollect the way ? ''
inquired the spirit .
`` Remember it ! ''
cried Scrooge with fervour ; `` I could walk it blindfold . ''
-RSB- They walked along the road , Scrooge recognising every gate , and post , and tree , until a little market-town appeared in the distance , with its bridge , its church , and winding river .
Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them with boys upon their backs , who called to other boys in country gigs and carts , driven by farmers .
All these boys were in great spirits , and shouted to each other , until the broad fields were so full of merry music , that the crisp air laughed to hear it .
`` These are but shadows of the things that have been , '' said the Ghost .
`` They have no consciousness of us . ''
The jocund travellers came on ; and as they came , Scrooge knew and named them every one .
Why was he rejoiced beyond all bounds to see them ?
Why did his cold eye glisten , and his heart leap up as they went past ?
Why was he filled with gladness when he heard them give each other Merry Christmas , as they parted at cross-roads and by-ways for their several homes ?
What was merry Christmas to Scrooge ?
Out upon merry Christmas !
What good had it ever done to him ?
`` The school is not quite deserted , '' said the Ghost .
`` A solitary child , neglected by his friends , is left there still . ''
Scrooge said he knew it .
And he sobbed .
They left the high-road by a well-remembered lane , and soon approached a mansion of dull red brick , with a little weather-cock surmounted cupola on the roof and a bell hanging in it .
It was a large house , but one of broken fortunes : for the spacious offices were little used , their walls were damp and mossy , their windows broken , and their gates decayed .
Fowls clucked and strutted in the stables ; and the coach-houses and sheds were overrun with grass .
Nor was it more retentive of its ancient state within ; for , entering the dreary hall , and glancing through the open doors of many rooms , they found them poorly furnished , cold , and vast .
There was an earthly savour in the air , a chilly bareness in the place , which associated itself somehow with too much getting up by candle-light , and not too much to eat .
They went , the Ghost and Scrooge , across the hall , to a door at the back of the house .
It opened before them , and disclosed a long , bare , melancholy room , made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks .
At one of these a lonely boy was reading near a feeble fire ; and Scrooge sat down upon a form , and wept to see his poor forgotten self as he had used to be .
Not a latent echo in the house , not a squeak and scuffle from the mice behind the panelling , not a drip from the half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind , not a sigh among the leafless boughs of one despondent poplar , not the idle swinging of an empty storehouse door , no , not a clicking in the fire , but fell upon the heart of Scrooge with softening influence , and gave a freer passage to his tears .
The Spirit touched him on the arm , and pointed to his younger self , intent upon his reading .
Suddenly a man in foreign garments : wonderfully real and distinct to look at : stood outside the window , with an axe stuck in his belt , and leading by the bridle an ass laden with wood .
`` Why , it 's Ali Baba ! ''
Scrooge exclaimed in ecstasy .
`` It 's dear old honest Ali Baba !
Yes , yes , I know .
One Christmas-time when yonder solitary child was left here all alone , he did come , for the first time , just like that .
Poor boy !
And Valentine , '' said Scrooge , `` and his wild brother , Orson ; there they go !
And what 's his name , who was put down in his drawers , asleep , at the gate of Damascus ; do n't you see him ?
And the Sultan 's Groom turned upside down by the Genii : there he is upon his head !
Serve him right !
I 'm glad of it .
What business had he to be married to the Princess ? ''
To hear Scrooge expending all the earnestness of his nature on such subjects , in a most extraordinary voice between laughing and crying ; and to see his heightened and excited face ; would have been a surprise to his business friends in the City , indeed .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Why , it 's Ali Baba ! ''
Scrooge exclaimed in ecstasy .
`` It 's dear old honest Ali Baba . ''
-RSB- `` There 's the Parrot ! ''
cried Scrooge .
`` Green body and yellow tail , with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top of his head ; there he is !
Poor Robin Crusoe he called him , when he came home again after sailing round the island .
` Poor Robin Crusoe , where have you been , Robin Crusoe ? '
The man thought he was dreaming , but he was n't .
It was the Parrot , you know .
There goes Friday , running for his life to the little creek !
Halloa !
Hoop !
Halloo ! ''
Then , with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual character , he said , in pity for his former self , `` Poor boy ! ''
and cried again .
`` I wish , '' Scrooge muttered , putting his hand in his pocket , and looking about him , after drying his eyes with his cuff : `` but it 's too late now . ''
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked the Spirit .
`` Nothing , '' said Scrooge .
`` Nothing .
There was a boy singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night .
I should like to have given him something : that 's all . ''
The Ghost smiled thoughtfully , and waved its hand : saying , as it did so , `` Let us see another Christmas ! ''
Scrooge 's former self grew larger at the words , and the room became a little darker and more dirty .
The panels shrunk , the windows cracked ; fragments of plaster fell out of the ceiling , and the naked laths were shown instead ; but how all this was brought about Scrooge knew no more than you do .
He only knew that it was quite correct : that everything had happened so ; that there he was , alone again , when all the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays .
He was not reading now , but walking up and down despairingly .
Scrooge looked at the Ghost , and , with a mournful shaking of his head , glanced anxiously towards the door .
It opened ; and a little girl , much younger than the boy , came darting in , and , putting her arms about his neck , and often kissing him , addressed him as her `` dear , dear brother . ''
`` I have come to bring you home , dear brother ! ''
said the child , clapping her tiny hands , and bending down to laugh .
`` To bring you home , home , home ! ''
`` Home , little Fan ? ''
returned the boy .
`` Yes ! ''
said the child , brimful of glee .
`` Home for good and all .
Home for ever and ever .
Father is so much kinder than he used to be , that home 's like Heaven !
He spoke so gently to me one dear night when I was going to bed , that I was not afraid to ask him once more if you might come home ; and he said Yes , you should ; and sent me in a coach to bring you .
And you 're to be a man ! ''
said the child , opening her eyes ; `` and are never to come back here ; but first we 're to be together all the Christmas long , and have the merriest time in all the world . ''
`` You are quite a woman , little Fan ! ''
exclaimed the boy .
She clapped her hands and laughed , and tried to touch his head ; but , being too little , laughed again , and stood on tiptoe to embrace him .
Then she began to drag him , in her childish eagerness , towards the door ; and he , nothing loath to go , accompanied her .
A terrible voice in the hall cried , `` Bring down Master Scrooge 's box , there ! ''
and in the hall appeared the schoolmaster himself , who glared on Master Scrooge with a ferocious condescension , and threw him into a dreadful state of mind by shaking hands with him .
He then conveyed him and his sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best parlour that ever was seen , where the maps upon the wall , and the celestial and terrestrial globes in the windows , were waxy with cold .
Here he produced a decanter of curiously light wine , and a block of curiously heavy cake , and administered instalments of those dainties to the young people : at the same time sending out a meagre servant to offer a glass of `` something '' to the postboy who answered that he thanked the gentleman , but , if it was the same tap as he had tasted before , he had rather not .
Master Scrooge 's trunk being by this time tied on to the top of the chaise , the children bade the schoolmaster good-bye right willingly ; and , getting into it , drove gaily down the garden sweep ; the quick wheels dashing the hoar frost and snow from off the dark leaves of the evergreens like spray .
`` Always a delicate creature , whom a breath might have withered , '' said the Ghost .
`` But she had a large heart ! ''
`` So she had , '' cried Scrooge .
`` You 're right .
I will not gainsay it , Spirit .
God forbid ! ''
`` She died a woman , '' said the Ghost , `` and had , as I think , children . ''
`` One child , '' Scrooge returned .
`` True , '' said the Ghost .
`` Your nephew ! ''
Scrooge seemed uneasy in his mind ; and answered briefly , `` Yes . ''
Although they had but that moment left the school behind them , they were now in the busy thoroughfares of a city , where shadowy passengers passed and repassed ; where shadowy carts and coaches battled for the way , and all the strife and tumult of a real city were .
It was made plain enough , by the dressing of the shops , that here , too , it was Christmas-time again ; but it was evening , and the streets were lighted up .
The Ghost stopped at a certain warehouse door , and asked Scrooge if he knew it .
`` Know it ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` Was I apprenticed here ? ''
They went in .
At sight of an old gentleman in a Welsh wig , sitting behind such a high desk , that if he had been two inches taller , he must have knocked his head against the ceiling , Scrooge cried in great excitement : `` Why , it 's old Fezziwig !
Bless his heart , it 's Fezziwig alive again ! ''
Old Fezziwig laid down his pen , and looked up at the clock , which pointed to the hour of seven .
He rubbed his hands ; adjusted his capacious waistcoat ; laughed all over himself , from his shoes to his organ of benevolence ; and called out , in a comfortable , oily , rich , fat , jovial voice : `` Yo ho , there !
Ebenezer !
Dick ! ''
Scrooge 's former self , now grown a young man , came briskly in , accompanied by his fellow - ` prentice .
`` Dick Wilkins , to be sure ! ''
said Scrooge to the Ghost .
`` Bless me , yes .
There he is .
He was very much attached to me , was Dick .
Poor Dick !
Dear , dear ! ''
`` Yo ho , my boys ! ''
said Fezziwig .
`` No more work to-night .
Christmas-eve , Dick .
Christmas , Ebenezer !
Let 's have the shutters up , '' cried old Fezziwig with a sharp clap of his hands , `` before a man can say Jack Robinson ! ''
You would n't believe how those two fellows went at it !
They charged into the street with the shutters -- one , two , three -- had 'em up in their places -- four , five , six -- barred 'em and pinned 'em -- seven , eight , nine -- and came back before you could have got to twelve , panting like race-horses .
`` Hilli-ho ! ''
cried old Fezziwig , skipping down from the high desk with wonderful agility .
`` Clear away , my lads , and let 's have lots of room here !
Hilli-ho , Dick !
Chirrup , Ebenezer ! ''
Clear away !
There was nothing they would n't have cleared away , or could n't have cleared away , with old Fezziwig looking on .
It was done in a minute .
Every movable was packed off , as if it were dismissed from public life for evermore ; the floor was swept and watered , the lamps were trimmed , fuel was heaped upon the fire ; and the warehouse was as snug , and warm , and dry , and bright a ball-room as you would desire to see upon a winter 's night .
In came a fiddler with a music-book , and went up to the lofty desk , and made an orchestra of it , and tuned like fifty stomachaches .
In came Mrs. Fezziwig , one vast substantial smile .
In came the three Miss Fezziwigs , beaming and lovable .
In came the six young followers whose hearts they broke .
In came all the young men and women employed in the business .
In came the housemaid , with her cousin the baker .
In came the cook , with her brother 's particular friend the milkman .
In came the boy from over the way , who was suspected of not having board enough from his master ; trying to hide himself behind the girl from next door but one , who was proved to have had her ears pulled by her mistress .
In they all came , one after another ; some shyly , some boldly , some gracefully , some awkwardly , some pushing , some pulling ; in they all came , any how and every how .
Away they all went , twenty couple at once ; hands half round and back again the other way ; down the middle and up again ; round and round in various stages of affectionate grouping ; old top couple always turning up in the wrong place ; new top couple starting off again as soon as they got there ; all top couples at last , and not a bottom one to help them !
When this result was brought about , old Fezziwig , clapping his hands to stop the dance , cried out , `` Well done ! ''
and the fiddler plunged his hot face into a pot of porter , especially provided for that purpose .
But , scorning rest upon his reappearance , he instantly began again , though there were no dancers yet , as if the other fiddler had been carried home , exhausted , on a shutter , and he were a bran-new man resolved to beat him out of sight , or perish .
There were more dances , and there were forfeits , and more dances , and there was cake , and there was negus , and there was a great piece of Cold Roast , and there was a great piece of Cold Boiled , and there were mince-pies , and plenty of beer .
But the great effect of the evening came after the Roast and Boiled , when the fiddler -LRB- an artful dog , mind !
The sort of man who knew his business better than you or I could have told it him ! -RRB-
struck up `` Sir Roger de Coverley . ''
Then old Fezziwig stood out to dance with Mrs. Fezziwig .
Top couple , too ; with a good stiff piece of work cut out for them ; three or four and twenty pair of partners ; people who were not to be trifled with ; people who would dance , and had no notion of walking .
But if they had been twice as many -- ah !
four times -- old Fezziwig would have been a match for them , and so would Mrs. Fezziwig .
As to her , she was worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term .
If that 's not high praise , tell me higher , and I 'll use it .
A positive light appeared to issue from Fezziwig 's calves .
They shone in every part of the dance like moons .
You could n't have predicted , at any given time , what would become of them next .
And when old Fezziwig and Mrs. Fezziwig had gone all through the dance ; advance and retire , both hands to your partner , bow and curtsy , cork-screw , thread-the-needle , and back again to your place ; Fezziwig `` cut '' -- cut so deftly , that he appeared to wink with his legs , and came upon his feet again without a stagger .
When the clock struck eleven , this domestic ball broke up .
Mr. and Mrs. Fezziwig took their stations , one on either side the door , and , shaking hands with every person individually as he or she went out , wished him or her a Merry Christmas .
When everybody had retired but the two ` prentices , they did the same to them ; and thus the cheerful voices died away , and the lads were left to their beds ; which were under a counter in the back-shop .
During the whole of this time Scrooge had acted like a man out of his wits .
His heart and soul were in the scene , and with his former self .
He corroborated everything , remembered everything , enjoyed everything , and underwent the strangest agitation .
It was not until now , when the bright faces of his former self and Dick were turned from them , that he remembered the Ghost , and became conscious that it was looking full upon him , while the light upon its head burnt very clear .
`` A small matter , '' said the Ghost , `` to make these silly folks so full of gratitude . ''
`` Small ! ''
echoed Scrooge .
The Spirit signed to him to listen to the two apprentices , who were pouring out their hearts in praise of Fezziwig ; and , when he had done so , said : `` Why !
Is it not ?
He has spent but a few pounds of your mortal money : three or four , perhaps .
Is that so much that he deserves this praise ? ''
`` It is n't that , '' said Scrooge , heated by the remark , and speaking unconsciously like his former , not his latter self .
`` It is n't that , Spirit .
He has the power to render us happy or unhappy ; to make our service light or burdensome ; a pleasure or a toil .
Say that his power lies in words and looks ; in things so slight and insignificant that it is impossible to add and count 'em up : what then ?
The happiness he gives is quite as great as if it cost a fortune . ''
He felt the Spirit 's glance , and stopped .
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked the Ghost .
`` Nothing particular , '' said Scrooge .
`` Something , I think ? ''
the Ghost insisted .
`` No , '' said Scrooge , `` no .
I should like to be able to say a word or two to my clerk just now .
That 's all . ''
His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance to the wish ; and Scrooge and the Ghost again stood side by side in the open air .
`` My time grows short , '' observed the Spirit .
`` Quick ! ''
This was not addressed to Scrooge , or to any one whom he could see , but it produced an immediate effect .
For again Scrooge saw himself .
He was older now ; a man in the prime of life .
His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later years ; but it had begun to wear the signs of care and avarice .
There was an eager , greedy , restless motion in the eye , which showed the passion that had taken root , and where the shadow of the growing tree would fall .
He was not alone , but sat by the side of a fair young girl in a mourning dress : in whose eyes there were tears , which sparkled in the light that shone out of the Ghost of Christmas Past .
`` It matters little , '' she said softly .
`` To you , very little .
Another idol has displaced me ; and , if it can cheer and comfort you in time to come as I would have tried to do , I have no just cause to grieve . ''
`` What Idol has displaced you ? ''
he rejoined .
`` A golden one . ''
`` This is the even-handed dealing of the world ! ''
he said .
`` There is nothing on which it is so hard as poverty ; and there is nothing it professes to condemn with such severity as the pursuit of wealth ! ''
`` You fear the world too much , '' she answered gently .
`` All your other hopes have merged into the hope of being beyond the chance of its sordid reproach .
I have seen your nobler aspirations fall off one by one , until the master passion , Gain , engrosses you .
Have I not ? ''
`` What then ? ''
he retorted .
`` Even if I have grown so much wiser , what then ?
I am not changed towards you . ''
She shook her head .
`` Am I ? ''
`` Our contract is an old one .
It was made when we were both poor , and content to be so , until , in good season , we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry .
You are changed .
When it was made you were another man . ''
`` I was a boy , '' he said impatiently .
`` Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you are , '' she returned .
`` I am .
That which promised happiness when we were one in heart is fraught with misery now that we are two .
How often and how keenly I have thought of this I will not say .
It is enough that I have thought of it , and can release you . ''
`` Have I ever sought release ? ''
`` In words .
No .
Never . ''
`` In what , then ? ''
`` In a changed nature ; in an altered spirit ; in another atmosphere of life ; another Hope as its great end .
In everything that made my love of any worth or value in your sight .
If this had never been between us , '' said the girl , looking mildly , but with steadiness , upon him , `` tell me , would you seek me out and try to win me now ?
Ah , no ! ''
He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition in spite of himself .
But he said , with a struggle , `` You think not . ''
`` I would gladly think otherwise if I could , '' she answered .
`` Heaven knows !
When I have learned a Truth like this , I know how strong and irresistible it must be .
But if you were free to-day , to-morrow , yesterday , can even I believe that you would choose a dowerless girl -- you who , in your very confidence with her , weigh everything by Gain : or , choosing her , if for a moment you were false enough to your one guiding principle to do so , do I not know that your repentance and regret would surely follow ?
I do ; and I release you .
With a full heart , for the love of him you once were . ''
He was about to speak ; but , with her head turned from him , she resumed .
`` You may -- the memory of what is past half makes me hope you will -- have pain in this .
A very , very brief time , and you will dismiss the recollection of it gladly , as an unprofitable dream , from which it happened well that you awoke .
May you be happy in the life you have chosen ! ''
She left him , and they parted .
`` Spirit ! ''
said Scrooge , `` show me no more !
Conduct me home .
Why do you delight to torture me ? ''
`` One shadow more ! ''
exclaimed the Ghost .
`` No more ! ''
cried Scrooge .
`` No more !
I do n't wish to see it .
Show me no more ! ''
But the relentless Ghost pinioned him in both his arms , and forced him to observe what happened next .
They were in another scene and place ; a room , not very large or handsome , but full of comfort .
Near to the winter fire sat a beautiful young girl , so like that last that Scrooge believed it was the same , until he saw her , now a comely matron , sitting opposite her daughter .
The noise in this room was perfectly tumultuous , for there were more children there than Scrooge in his agitated state of mind could count ; and , unlike the celebrated herd in the poem , they were not forty children conducting themselves like one , but every child was conducting itself like forty .
The consequences were uproarious beyond belief ; but no one seemed to care ; on the contrary , the mother and daughter laughed heartily , and enjoyed it very much ; and the latter , soon beginning to mingle in the sports , got pillaged by the young brigands most ruthlessly .
What would I not have given to be one of them !
Though I never could have been so rude , no , no !
I would n't for the wealth of all the world have crushed that braided hair , and torn it down ; and , for the precious little shoe , I would n't have plucked it off , God bless my soul !
to save my life .
As to measuring her waist in sport , as they did , bold young brood , I could n't have done it ; I should have expected my arm to have grown round it for a punishment , and never come straight again .
And yet I should have dearly liked , I own , to have touched her lips ; to have questioned her , that she might have opened them ; to have looked upon the lashes of her downcast eyes , and never raised a blush ; to have let loose waves of hair , an inch of which would be a keepsake beyond price : in short , I should have liked , I do confess , to have had the lightest licence of a child , and yet to have been man enough to know its value .
But now a knocking at the door was heard , and such a rush immediately ensued that she , with laughing face and plundered dress , was borne towards it in the centre of a flushed and boisterous group , just in time to greet the father , who came home attended by a man laden with Christmas toys and presents .
Then the shouting and the struggling , and the onslaught that was made on the defenceless porter !
The scaling him , with chairs for ladders , to dive into his pockets , despoil him of brown-paper parcels , hold on tight by his cravat , hug him round the neck , pummel his back , and kick his legs in irrepressible affection !
The shouts of wonder and delight with which the development of every package was received !
The terrible announcement that the baby had been taken in the act of putting a doll 's frying-pan into his mouth , and was more than suspected of having swallowed a fictitious turkey , glued on a wooden platter !
The immense relief of finding this a false alarm !
The joy , and gratitude , and ecstasy !
They are all indescribable alike .
It is enough that by degrees , the children and their emotions got out of the parlour , and , by one stair at a time , up to the top of the house , where they went to bed , and so subsided .
And now Scrooge looked on more attentively than ever , when the master of the house , having his daughter leaning fondly on him , sat down with her and her mother at his own fireside ; and when he thought that such another creature , quite as graceful and as full of promise , might have called him father , and been a spring-time in the haggard winter of his life , his sight grew very dim indeed .
`` Belle , '' said the husband , turning to his wife with a smile , `` I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon . ''
`` Who was it ? ''
`` Guess ! ''
`` How can I ?
Tut , do n't I know ? ''
she added in the same breath , laughing as he laughed .
`` Mr. Scrooge . ''
`` Mr. Scrooge it was .
I passed his office window ; and as it was not shut up , and he had a candle inside , I could scarcely help seeing him .
His partner lies upon the point of death , I hear ; and there he sat alone .
Quite alone in the world , I do believe . ''
`` Spirit ! ''
said Scrooge in a broken voice , `` remove me from this place . ''
`` I told you these were shadows of the things that have been , '' said the Ghost .
`` That they are what they are , do not blame me ! ''
`` Remove me ! ''
Scrooge exclaimed .
`` I can not bear it ! ''
He turned upon the Ghost , and seeing that it looked upon him with a face in which in some strange way there were fragments of all the faces it had shown him , wrestled with it .
`` Leave me !
Take me back !
Haunt me no longer ! ''
In the struggle -- if that can be called a struggle in which the Ghost , with no visible resistance on its own part , was undisturbed by any effort of its adversary -- Scrooge observed that its light was burning high and bright ; and dimly connecting that with its influence over him , he seized the extinguisher cap , and by a sudden action pressed it down upon its head .
The Spirit dropped beneath it , so that the extinguisher covered its whole form ; but , though Scrooge pressed it down with all his force , he could not hide the light , which streamed from under it in an unbroken flood upon the ground .
He was conscious of being exhausted , and overcome by an irresistible drowsiness ; and , further , of being in his own bedroom .
He gave the cap a parting squeeze , in which his hand relaxed ; and had barely time to reel to bed before he sank into a heavy sleep .
STAVE THREE THE SECOND OF THE THREE SPIRITS Awaking in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore , and sitting up in bed to get his thoughts together , Scrooge had no occasion to be told that the bell was again upon the stroke of One .
He felt that he was restored to consciousness in the right nick of time , for the especial purpose of holding a conference with the second messenger dispatched to him through Jacob Marley 's intervention .
But , finding that he turned uncomfortably cold when he began to wonder which of his curtains this new spectre would draw back , he put them every one aside with his own hands , and , lying down again , established a sharp look-out all round the bed .
For he wished to challenge the Spirit on the moment of its appearance , and did not wish to be taken by surprise and made nervous .
Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort , who plume themselves on being acquainted with a move or two , and being usually equal to the time of day , express the wide range of their capacity for adventure by observing that they are good for anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter ; between which opposite extremes , no doubt , there lies a tolerably wide and comprehensive range of subjects .
Without venturing for Scrooge quite as hardily as this , I do n't mind calling on you to believe that he was ready for a good broad field of strange appearances , and that nothing between a baby and a rhinoceros would have astonished him very much .
Now , being prepared for almost anything , he was not by any means prepared for nothing ; and consequently , when the bell struck One , and no shape appeared , he was taken with a violent fit of trembling .
Five minutes , ten minutes , a quarter of an hour went by , yet nothing came .
All this time he lay upon his bed , the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy light , which streamed upon it when the clock proclaimed the hour ; and which , being only light , was more alarming than a dozen ghosts , as he was powerless to make out what it meant , or would be at ; and was sometimes apprehensive that he might be at that very moment an interesting case of spontaneous combustion , without having the consolation of knowing it .
At last , however , he began to think -- as you or I would have thought at first ; for it is always the person not in the predicament who knows what ought to have been done in it , and would unquestionably have done it too -- at last , I say , he began to think that the source and secret of this ghostly light might be in the adjoining room , from whence , on further tracing it , it seemed to shine .
This idea taking full possession of his mind , he got up softly , and shuffled in his slippers to the door .
The moment Scrooge 's hand was on the lock , a strange voice called him by his name , and bade him enter .
He obeyed .
It was his own room .
There was no doubt about that .
But it had undergone a surprising transformation .
The walls and ceiling were so hung with living green , that it looked a perfect grove ; from every part of which bright gleaming berries glistened .
The crisp leaves of holly , mistletoe , and ivy reflected back the light , as if so many little mirrors had been scattered there ; and such a mighty blaze went roaring up the chimney as that dull petrifaction of a hearth had never known in Scrooge 's time , or Marley 's , or for many and many a winter season gone .
Heaped up on the floor , to form a kind of throne , were turkeys , geese , game , poultry , brawn , great joints of meat , sucking-pigs , long wreaths of sausages , mince-pies , plum-puddings , barrels of oysters , red-hot chestnuts , cherry-cheeked apples , juicy oranges , luscious pears , immense twelfth-cakes , and seething bowls of punch , that made the chamber dim with their delicious steam .
In easy state upon this couch there sat a jolly Giant , glorious to see ; who bore a glowing torch , in shape not unlike Plenty 's horn , and held it up , high up , to shed its light on Scrooge as he came peeping round the door .
`` Come in ! ''
exclaimed the Ghost .
`` Come in !
and know me better , man ! ''
Scrooge entered timidly , and hung his head before this Spirit .
He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been ; and , though the Spirit 's eyes were clear and kind , he did not like to meet them .
`` I am the Ghost of Christmas Present , '' said the Spirit .
`` Look upon me ! ''
Scrooge reverently did so .
It was clothed in one simple deep green robe , or mantle , bordered with white fur .
This garment hung so loosely on the figure , that its capacious breast was bare , as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice .
Its feet , observable beneath the ample folds of the garment , were also bare ; and on its head it wore no other covering than a holly wreath , set here and there with shining icicles .
Its dark brown curls were long and free ; free as its genial face , its sparkling eye , its open hand , its cheery voice , its unconstrained demeanour , and its joyful air .
Girded round its middle was an antique scabbard ; but no sword was in it , and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust .
`` You have never seen the like of me before ! ''
exclaimed the Spirit .
`` Never , '' Scrooge made answer to it .
`` Have never walked forth with the younger members of my family ; meaning -LRB- for I am very young -RRB- my elder brothers born in these later years ? ''
pursued the Phantom .
`` I do n't think I have , '' said Scrooge .
`` I am afraid I have not .
Have you had many brothers , Spirit ? ''
`` More than eighteen hundred , '' said the Ghost .
`` A tremendous family to provide for , '' muttered Scrooge .
The Ghost of Christmas Present rose .
`` Spirit , '' said Scrooge submissively , `` conduct me where you will .
I went forth last night on compulsion , and I learnt a lesson which is working now .
To-night , if you have aught to teach me , let me profit by it . ''
`` Touch my robe ! ''
Scrooge did as he was told , and held it fast .
Holly , mistletoe , red berries , ivy , turkeys , geese , game , poultry , brawn , meat , pigs , sausages , oysters , pies , puddings , fruit , and punch , all vanished instantly .
So did the room , the fire , the ruddy glow , the hour of night , and they stood in the city streets on Christmas morning , where -LRB- for the weather was severe -RRB- the people made a rough , but brisk and not unpleasant kind of music , in scraping the snow from the pavement in front of their dwellings , and from the tops of their houses , whence it was mad delight to the boys to see it come plumping down into the road below , and splitting into artificial little snow-storms .
The house-fronts looked black enough , and the windows blacker , contrasting with the smooth white sheet of snow upon the roofs , and with the dirtier snow upon the ground ; which last deposit had been ploughed up in deep furrows by the heavy wheels of carts and waggons ; furrows that crossed and recrossed each other hundreds of times where the great streets branched off ; and made intricate channels , hard to trace , in the thick yellow mud and icy water .
The sky was gloomy , and the shortest streets were choked up with a dingy mist , half thawed , half frozen , whose heavier particles descended in a shower of sooty atoms , as if all the chimneys in Great Britain had , by one consent , caught fire , and were blazing away to their dear hearts ' content .
There was nothing very cheerful in the climate or the town , and yet was there an air of cheerfulness abroad that the clearest summer air and brightest summer sun might have endeavoured to diffuse in vain .
For , the people who were shovelling away on the housetops were jovial and full of glee ; calling out to one another from the parapets , and now and then exchanging a facetious snowball -- better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest -- laughing heartily if it went right , and not less heartily if it went wrong .
The poulterers ' shops were still half open , and the fruiterers ' were radiant in their glory .
There were great , round , pot-bellied baskets of chestnuts , shaped like the waistcoats of jolly old gentlemen , lolling at the doors , and tumbling out into the street in their apoplectic opulence .
There were ruddy , brown-faced , broad-girthed Spanish onions , shining in the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars , and winking from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went by , and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe .
There were pears and apples clustered high in blooming pyramids ; there were bunches of grapes , made , in the shopkeepers ' benevolence , to dangle from conspicuous hooks that people 's mouths might water gratis as they passed ; there were piles of filberts , mossy and brown , recalling , in their fragrance , ancient walks among the woods , and pleasant shufflings ankle deep through withered leaves ; there were Norfolk Biffins , squab and swarthy , setting off the yellow of the oranges and lemons , and , in the great compactness of their juicy persons , urgently entreating and beseeching to be carried home in paper bags , and eaten after dinner .
The very gold and silver fish , set forth among these choice fruits in a bowl , though members of a dull and stagnant-blooded race , appeared to know that there was something going on ; and , to a fish , went gasping round and round their little world in slow and passionless excitement .
The Grocers ' !
oh , the Grocers ' !
nearly closed , with perhaps two shutters down , or one ; but through those gaps such glimpses !
It was not alone that the scales descending on the counter made a merry sound , or that the twine and roller parted company so briskly , or that the canisters were rattled up and down like juggling tricks , or even that the blended scents of tea and coffee were so grateful to the nose , or even that the raisins were so plentiful and rare , the almonds so extremely white , the sticks of cinnamon so long and straight , the other spices so delicious , the candied fruits so caked and spotted with molten sugar as to make the coldest lookers-on feel faint , and subsequently bilious .
Nor was it that the figs were moist and pulpy , or that the French plums blushed in modest tartness from their highly-decorated boxes , or that everything was good to eat and in its Christmas dress ; but the customers were all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful promise of the day , that they tumbled up against each other at the door , crashing their wicker baskets wildly , and left their purchases upon the counter , and came running back to fetch them , and committed hundreds of the like mistakes , in the best humour possible ; while the Grocer and his people were so frank and fresh , that the polished hearts with which they fastened their aprons behind might have been their own , worn outside for general inspection , and for Christmas daws to peck at if they chose .
But soon the steeples called good people all to church and chapel , and away they came , flocking through the streets in their best clothes , and with their gayest faces .
And at the same time there emerged , from scores of by-streets , lanes , and nameless turnings , innumerable people , carrying their dinners to the bakers ' shops .
The sight of these poor revellers appeared to interest the Spirit very much , for he stood with Scrooge beside him in a baker 's doorway , and , taking off the covers as their bearers passed , sprinkled incense on their dinners from his torch .
And it was a very uncommon kind of torch , for once or twice , when there were angry words between some dinner-carriers who had jostled each other , he shed a few drops of water on them from it , and their good-humour was restored directly .
For they said , it was a shame to quarrel upon Christmas-day .
And so it was !
God love it , so it was !
In time the bells ceased , and the bakers were shut up ; and yet there was a genial shadowing forth of all these dinners , and the progress of their cooking , in the thawed blotch of wet above each baker 's oven ; where the pavement smoked as if its stones were cooking too .
`` Is there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your torch ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` There is .
My own . ''
`` Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` To any kindly given .
To a poor one most . ''
`` Why to a poor one most ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` Because it needs it most . ''
`` Spirit ! ''
said Scrooge after a moment 's thought .
`` I wonder you , of all the beings in the many worlds about us , should desire to cramp these people 's opportunities of innocent enjoyment . ''
`` I ! ''
cried the Spirit .
`` You would deprive them of their means of dining every seventh day , often the only day on which they can be said to dine at all , '' said Scrooge ; `` would n't you ? ''
`` I ! ''
cried the Spirit .
`` You seek to close these places on the Seventh Day , '' said Scrooge .
`` And it comes to the same thing . '' ''
I seek ! ''
exclaimed the Spirit .
`` Forgive me if I am wrong .
It has been done in your name , or at least in that of your family , '' said Scrooge .
`` There are some upon this earth of yours , '' returned the Spirit , `` who lay claim to know us , and who do their deeds of passion , pride , ill-will , hatred , envy , bigotry , and selfishness in our name , who are as strange to us , and all our kith and kin , as if they had never lived .
Remember that , and charge their doings on themselves , not us . ''
Scrooge promised that he would ; and they went on , invisible , as they had been before , into the suburbs of the town .
It was a remarkable quality of the Ghost -LRB- which Scrooge had observed at the baker 's -RRB- , that , notwithstanding his gigantic size , he could accommodate himself to any place with ease ; and that he stood beneath a low roof quite as gracefully and like a supernatural creature as it was possible he could have done in any lofty hall .
And perhaps it was the pleasure the good Spirit had in showing off this power of his , or else it was his own kind , generous , hearty nature , and his sympathy with all poor men , that led him straight to Scrooge 's clerk 's ; for there he went , and took Scrooge with him , holding to his robe ; and , on the threshold of the door , the Spirit smiled , and stopped to bless Bob Cratchit 's dwelling with the sprinklings of his torch .
Think of that !
Bob had but fifteen `` Bob '' a week himself ; he pocketed on Saturdays but fifteen copies of his Christian name ; and yet the Ghost of Christmas Present blessed his four-roomed house !
Then up rose Mrs. Cratchit , Cratchit 's wife , dressed out but poorly in a twice-turned gown , but brave in ribbons , which are cheap , and make a goodly show for sixpence ; and she laid the cloth , assisted by Belinda Cratchit , second of her daughters , also brave in ribbons ; while Master Peter Cratchit plunged a fork into the saucepan of potatoes , and , getting the corners of his monstrous shirt collar -LRB- Bob 's private property , conferred upon his son and heir in honour of the day -RRB- into his mouth , rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired , and yearned to show his linen in the fashionable Parks .
And now two smaller Cratchits , boy and girl , came tearing in , screaming that outside the baker 's they had smelt the goose , and known it for their own ; and , basking in luxurious thoughts of sage and onion , these young Cratchits danced about the table , and exalted Master Peter Cratchit to the skies , while he -LRB- not proud , although his collars nearly choked him -RRB- blew the fire , until the slow potatoes , bubbling up , knocked loudly at the saucepan lid to be let out and peeled .
`` What has ever got your precious father , then ? ''
said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` And your brother , Tiny Tim ?
And Martha war n't as late last Christmas-day by half an hour ! ''
`` Here 's Martha , mother ! ''
said a girl , appearing as she spoke .
`` Here 's Martha , mother ! ''
cried the two young Cratchits .
`` Hurrah !
There 's such a goose , Martha ! ''
`` Why , bless your heart alive , my dear , how late you are ! ''
said Mrs. Cratchit , kissing her a dozen times , and taking off her shawl and bonnet for her with officious zeal .
`` We 'd a deal of work to finish up last night , '' replied the girl , `` and had to clear away this morning , mother ! ''
`` Well !
never mind so long as you are come , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` Sit ye down before the fire , my dear , and have a warm , Lord bless ye ! ''
`` No , no !
There 's father coming , '' cried the two young Cratchits , who were everywhere at once .
`` Hide , Martha , hide ! ''
So Martha hid herself , and in came little Bob , the father , with at least three feet of comforter , exclusive of the fringe , hanging down before him ; and his threadbare clothes darned up and brushed to look seasonable ; and Tiny Tim upon his shoulder .
Alas for Tiny Tim , he bore a little crutch , and had his limbs supported by an iron frame !
`` Why , where 's our Martha ? ''
cried Bob Cratchit , looking round .
`` Not coming , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` Not coming ! ''
said Bob with a sudden declension in his high spirits ; for he had been Tim 's blood horse all the way from church , and had come home rampant .
`` Not coming upon Christmas-day ! ''
Martha did n't like to see him disappointed , if it were only in joke ; so she came out prematurely from behind the closet door , and ran into his arms , while the two young Cratchits hustled Tiny Tim , and bore him off into the wash-house , that he might hear the pudding singing in the copper .
`` And how did little Tim behave ? ''
asked Mrs. Cratchit when she had rallied Bob on his credulity , and Bob had hugged his daughter to his heart 's content .
`` As good as gold , '' said Bob , `` and better .
Somehow , he gets thoughtful , sitting by himself so much , and thinks the strangest things you ever heard .
He told me , coming home , that he hoped the people saw him in the church , because he was a cripple , and it might be pleasant to them to remember upon Christmas-day who made lame beggars walk and blind men see . ''
Bob 's voice was tremulous when he told them this , and trembled more when he said that Tiny Tim was growing strong and hearty .
His active little crutch was heard upon the floor , and back came Tiny Tim before another word was spoken , escorted by his brother and sister to his stool beside the fire ; and while Bob , turning up his cuffs -- as if , poor fellow , they were capable of being made more shabby -- compounded some hot mixture in a jug with gin and lemons , and stirred it round and round , and put it on the hob to simmer , Master Peter and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits went to fetch the goose , with which they soon returned in high procession .
Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose the rarest of all birds ; a feathered phenomenon , to which a black swan was a matter of course -- and , in truth , it was something very like it in that house .
Mrs. Cratchit made the gravy -LRB- ready beforehand in a little saucepan -RRB- hissing hot ; Master Peter mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour ; Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple sauce ; Martha dusted the hot plates ; Bob took Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny corner at the table ; the two young Cratchits set chairs for everybody , not forgetting themselves , and , mounting guard upon their posts , crammed spoons into their mouths , lest they should shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped .
At last the dishes were set on , and grace was said .
It was succeeded by a breathless pause , as Mrs. Cratchit , looking slowly all along the carving-knife , prepared to plunge it in the breast ; but when she did , and when the long-expected gush of stuffing issued forth , one murmur of delight arose all round the board , and even Tiny Tim , excited by the two young Cratchits , beat on the table with the handle of his knife , and feebly cried Hurrah !
There never was such a goose .
Bob said he did n't believe there ever was such a goose cooked .
Its tenderness and flavour , size and cheapness , were the themes of universal admiration .
Eked out by apple sauce and mashed potatoes , it was a sufficient dinner for the whole family ; indeed , as Mrs. Cratchit said with great delight -LRB- surveying one small atom of a bone upon the dish -RRB- , they had n't ate it all at last !
Yet every one had had enough , and the youngest Cratchits , in particular , were steeped in sage and onion to the eyebrows !
But now , the plates being changed by Miss Belinda , Mrs. Cratchit left the room alone -- too nervous to bear witnesses -- to take the pudding up , and bring it in .
Suppose it should not be done enough !
Suppose it should break in turning out !
Suppose somebody should have got over the wall of the back-yard and stolen it , while they were merry with the goose -- a supposition at which the two young Cratchits became livid !
All sorts of horrors were supposed .
Hallo !
A great deal of steam !
The pudding was out of the copper .
A smell like a washing-day !
That was the cloth .
A smell like an eating-house and a pastrycook 's next door to each other , with a laundress 's next door to that !
That was the pudding !
In half a minute Mrs. Cratchit entered -- flushed , but smiling proudly -- with the pudding , like a speckled cannon-ball , so hard and firm , blazing in half of half-a-quartern of ignited brandy , and bedight with Christmas holly stuck into the top .
Oh , a wonderful pudding !
Bob Cratchit said , and calmly too , that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs. Cratchit since their marriage .
Mrs. Cratchit said that , now the weight was off her mind , she would confess she had her doubts about the quantity of flour .
Everybody had something to say about it , but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a large family .
It would have been flat heresy to do so .
Any Cratchit would have blushed to hint at such a thing .
At last the dinner was all done , the cloth was cleared , the hearth swept , and the fire made up .
The compound in the jug being tasted , and considered perfect , apples and oranges were put upon the table , and a shovel full of chestnuts on the fire .
Then all the Cratchit family drew round the hearth in what Bob Cratchit called a circle , meaning half a one ; and at Bob Cratchit 's elbow stood the family display of glass .
Two tumblers and a custard cup without a handle .
These held the hot stuff from the jug , however , as well as golden goblets would have done ; and Bob served it out with beaming looks , while the chestnuts on the fire sputtered and cracked noisily .
Then Bob proposed : `` A merry Christmas to us all , my dears .
God bless us ! ''
Which all the family re-echoed .
`` God bless us every one ! ''
said Tiny Tim , the last of all .
He sat very close to his father 's side , upon his little stool .
Bob held his withered little hand in his , as if he loved the child , and wished to keep him by his side , and dreaded that he might be taken from him .
`` Spirit , '' said Scrooge with an interest he had never felt before , `` tell me if Tiny Tim will live . ''
`` I see a vacant seat , '' replied the Ghost , `` in the poor chimney-corner , and a crutch without an owner , carefully preserved .
If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future , the child will die . ''
`` No , no , '' said Scrooge .
`` Oh , no , kind Spirit !
say he will be spared . ''
`` If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future , none other of my race , '' returned the Ghost , `` will find him here .
What then ?
If he be like to die , he had better do it , and decrease the surplus population . ''
Scrooge hung his head to hear his own words quoted by the Spirit , and was overcome with penitence and grief .
`` Man , '' said the Ghost , `` if man you be in heart , not adamant , forbear that wicked cant until you have discovered What the surplus is , and Where it is .
Will you decide what men shall live , what men shall die ?
It may be that , in the sight of Heaven , you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions like this poor man 's child .
Oh God !
to hear the Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his hungry brothers in the dust ! ''
Scrooge bent before the Ghost 's rebuke , and , trembling , cast his eyes upon the ground .
But he raised them speedily on hearing his own name .
`` Mr. Scrooge ! ''
said Bob .
`` I 'll give you Mr. Scrooge , the Founder of the Feast ! ''
`` The Founder of the Feast , indeed ! ''
cried Mrs. Cratchit , reddening .
`` I wish I had him here .
I 'd give him a piece of my mind to feast upon , and I hope he 'd have a good appetite for it . ''
`` My dear , '' said Bob , `` the children !
Christmas-day . ''
`` It should be Christmas-day , I am sure , '' said she , `` on which one drinks the health of such an odious , stingy , hard , unfeeling man as Mr. Scrooge .
You know he is , Robert !
Nobody knows it better than you do , poor fellow ! ''
`` My dear ! ''
was Bob 's mild answer .
`` Christmas-day . ''
`` I 'll drink his health for your sake and the Day 's , '' said Mrs. Cratchit , `` not for his .
Long life to him !
A merry Christmas and a happy New Year !
He 'll be very merry and very happy , I have no doubt ! ''
The children drank the toast after her .
It was the first of their proceedings which had no heartiness in it .
Tiny Tim drank it last of all , but he did n't care twopence for it .
Scrooge was the Ogre of the family .
The mention of his name cast a dark shadow on the party , which was not dispelled for full five minutes .
After it had passed away they were ten times merrier than before , from the mere relief of Scrooge the Baleful being done with .
Bob Cratchit told them how he had a situation in his eye for Master Peter , which would bring in , if obtained , full five-and-sixpence weekly .
The two young Cratchits laughed tremendously at the idea of Peter 's being a man of business ; and Peter himself looked thoughtfully at the fire from between his collars , as if he were deliberating what particular investments he should favour when he came into the receipt of that bewildering income .
Martha , who was a poor apprentice at a milliner 's , then told them what kind of work she had to do , and how many hours she worked at a stretch , and how she meant to lie abed to-morrow morning for a good long rest ; to-morrow being a holiday she passed at home .
Also how she had seen a countess and a lord some days before , and how the lord `` was much about as tall as Peter '' ; at which Peter pulled up his collars so high , that you could n't have seen his head if you had been there .
All this time the chestnuts and the jug went round and round ; and by-and-by they had a song , about a lost child travelling in the snow , from Tiny Tim , who had a plaintive little voice , and sang it very well indeed .
There was nothing of high mark in this .
They were not a handsome family ; they were not well dressed ; their shoes were far from being waterproof ; their clothes were scanty ; and Peter might have known , and very likely did , the inside of a pawn-broker 's .
But they were happy , grateful , pleased with one another , and contented with the time ; and when they faded , and looked happier yet in the bright sprinklings of the Spirit 's torch at parting , Scrooge had his eye upon them , and especially on Tiny Tim , until the last .
By this time it was getting dark , and snowing pretty heavily ; and as Scrooge and the Spirit went along the streets , the brightness of the roaring fires in kitchens , parlours , and all sorts of rooms was wonderful .
Here , the flickering of the blaze showed preparations for a cosy dinner , with hot plates baking through and through before the fire , and deep red curtains , ready to be drawn to shut out cold and darkness .
There , all the children of the house were running out into the snow to meet their married sisters , brothers , cousins , uncles , aunts , and be the first to greet them .
Here , again , were shadows on the window blinds of guests assembling ; and there a group of handsome girls , all hooded and fur-booted , and all chattering at once , tripped lightly off to some near neighbour 's house ; where , woe upon the single man who saw them enter -- artful witches , well they knew it -- in a glow !
But , if you had judged from the numbers of people on their way to friendly gatherings , you might have thought that no one was at home to give them welcome when they got there , instead of every house expecting company , and piling up its fires half-chimney high .
Blessings on it , how the Ghost exulted !
How it bared its breadth of breast , and opened its capacious palm , and floated on , outpouring , with a generous hand , its bright and harmless mirth on everything within its reach !
The very lamp-lighter , who ran on before , dotting the dusky street with specks of light , and who was dressed to spend the evening somewhere , laughed out loudly as the Spirit passed , though little kenned the lamp-lighter that he had any company but Christmas .
And now , without a word of warning from the Ghost , they stood upon a bleak and desert moor , where monstrous masses of rude stone were cast about , as though it were the burial-place or giants ; and water spread itself wheresoever it listed ; or would have done so , but for the frost that held it prisoner ; and nothing grew but moss and furze , and coarse , rank grass .
Down in the west the setting sun had left a streak of fiery red , which glared upon the desolation for an instant , like a sullen eye , and , frowning lower , lower , lower yet , was lost in the thick gloom of darkest night .
`` What place is this ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` A place where Miners live , who labour in the bowels of the earth , '' returned the Spirit .
`` But they know me .
See ! ''
A light shone from the window of a hut , and swiftly they advanced towards it .
Passing through the wall of mud and stone , they found a cheerful company assembled round a glowing fire .
An old , old man and woman , with their children and their children 's children , and another generation beyond that , all decked out gaily in their holiday attire .
The old man , in a voice that seldom rose above the howling of the wind upon the barren waste , was singing them a Christmas song ; it had been a very old song when he was a boy ; and from time to time they all joined in the chorus .
So surely as they raised their voices , the old man got quite blithe and loud ; and , so surely as they stopped , his vigour sank again .
The Spirit did not tarry here , but bade Scrooge hold his robe , and , passing on above the moor , sped whither ?
Not to sea ?
To sea .
To Scrooge 's horror , looking back , he saw the last of the land , a frightful range of rocks , behind them ; and his ears were deafened by the thundering of water , as it rolled and roared , and raged among the dreadful caverns it had worn , and fiercely tried to undermine the earth .
Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks , some league or so from shore , on which the waters chafed and dashed , the wild year through , there stood a solitary lighthouse .
Great heaps of seaweed clung to its base , and storm-birds -- born of the wind , one might suppose , as seaweed of the water -- rose and fell about it , like the waves they skimmed .
But , even here , two men who watched the light had made a fire that through the loophole in the thick stone wall shed out a ray of brightness on the awful sea .
Joining their horny hands over the rough table at which they sat , they wished each other Merry Christmas in their can of grog ; and one of them , the elder too , with his face all damaged and scarred with hard weather , as the figure-head of an old ship might be , struck up a sturdy song that was like a gale in itself .
Again the Ghost sped on , above the black and heaving sea -- on , on -- until , being far away , as he told Scrooge , from any shore , they lighted on a ship .
They stood beside the helmsman at the wheel , the look-out in the bow , the officers who had the watch ; dark , ghostly figures in their several stations ; but every man among them hummed a Christmas tune , or had a Christmas thought , or spoke below his breath to his companion of some bygone Christmas-day , with homeward hopes belonging to it .
And every man on board , waking or sleeping , good or bad , had had a kinder word for one another on that day than on any day in the year ; and had shared to some extent in its festivities ; and had remembered those he cared for at a distance , and had known that they delighted to remember him .
It was a great surprise to Scrooge , while listening to the moaning of the wind , and thinking what a solemn thing it was to move on through the lonely darkness over an unknown abyss , whose depths were secrets as profound as death : it was a great surprise to Scrooge , while thus engaged , to hear a hearty laugh .
It was a much greater surprise to Scrooge to recognise it as his own nephew 's , and to find himself in a bright , dry , gleaming room , with the Spirit standing smiling by his side , and looking at that same nephew with approving affability !
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laughed Scrooge 's nephew .
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
If you should happen , by any unlikely chance , to know a man more blessed in a laugh than Scrooge 's nephew , all I can say is , I should like to know him too .
Introduce him to me , and I 'll cultivate his acquaintance .
It is a fair , even-handed , noble adjustment of things , that , while there is infection in disease and sorrow , there is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good-humour .
When Scrooge 's nephew laughed in this way , holding his sides , rolling his head , and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions , Scrooge 's niece , by marriage , laughed as heartily as he .
And their assembled friends , being not a bit behindhand , roared out lustily .
`` Ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` He said that Christmas was a humbug , as I live ! ''
cried Scrooge 's nephew .
`` He believed it , too ! ''
`` More shame for him , Fred ! ''
said Scrooge 's niece indignantly .
Bless those women !
they never do anything by halves .
They are always in earnest .
She was very pretty ; exceedingly pretty .
With a dimpled , surprised-looking , capital face ; a ripe little mouth , that seemed made to be kissed -- as no doubt it was ; all kinds of good little dots about her chin , that melted into one another when she laughed ; and the sunniest pair of eyes you ever saw in any little creature 's head .
Altogether she was what you would have called provoking , you know ; but satisfactory , too .
Oh , perfectly satisfactory !
`` He 's a comical old fellow , '' said Scrooge 's nephew , `` that 's the truth ; and not so pleasant as he might be .
However , his offences carry their own punishment , and I have nothing to say against him . ''
`` I 'm sure he is very rich , Fred , '' hinted Scrooge 's niece .
`` At least , you always tell me so . ''
`` What of that , my dear ? ''
said Scrooge 's nephew .
`` His wealth is of no use to him .
He do n't do any good with it .
He do n't make himself comfortable with it .
He has n't the satisfaction of thinking -- ha , ha , ha !
-- that he is ever going to benefit Us with it . ''
`` I have no patience with him , '' observed Scrooge 's niece .
Scrooge 's niece 's sisters , and all the other ladies , expressed the same opinion .
`` Oh , I have ! ''
said Scrooge 's nephew .
`` I am sorry for him ; I could n't be angry with him if I tried .
Who suffers by his ill whims ?
Himself always .
Here he takes it into his head to dislike us , and he wo n't come and dine with us .
What 's the consequence ?
He do n't lose much of a dinner . ''
`` Indeed , I think he loses a very good dinner , '' interrupted Scrooge 's niece .
Everybody else said the same , and they must be allowed to have been competent judges , because they had just had dinner ; and , with the dessert upon the table , were clustered round the fire , by lamp-light .
`` Well !
I am very glad to hear it , '' said Scrooge 's nephew , `` because I have n't any great faith in these young housekeepers .
What do you say , Topper ? ''
Topper had clearly got his eye upon one of Scrooge 's niece 's sisters , for he answered that a bachelor was a wretched outcast , who had no right to express an opinion on the subject .
Whereat Scrooge 's niece 's sister -- the plump one with the lace tucker , not the one with the roses -- blushed .
`` Do go on , Fred , '' said Scrooge 's niece , clapping her hands .
`` He never finishes what he begins to say !
He is such a ridiculous fellow ! ''
Scrooge 's nephew revelled in another laugh , and , as it was impossible to keep the infection off , though the plump sister tried hard to do it with aromatic vinegar , his example was unanimously followed .
`` I was only going to say , '' said Scrooge 's nephew , `` that the consequence of his taking a dislike to us , and not making merry with us , is , as I think , that he loses some pleasant moments , which could do him no harm .
I am sure he loses pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts , either in his mouldy old office or his dusty chambers .
I mean to give him the same chance every year , whether he likes it or not , for I pity him .
He may rail at Christmas till he dies , but he ca n't help thinking better of it -- I defy him -- if he finds me going there in good temper , year after year , and saying , ` Uncle Scrooge , how are you ? '
If it only puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds , that 's something ; and I think I shook him yesterday . ''
It was their turn to laugh , now , at the notion of his shaking Scrooge .
But , being thoroughly good-natured , and not much caring what they laughed at , so that they laughed at any rate , he encouraged them in their merriment , and passed the bottle , joyously .
After tea they had some music .
For they were a musical family , and knew what they were about when they sung a Glee or Catch , I can assure you : especially Topper , who could growl away in the bass like a good one , and never swell the large veins in his forehead , or get red in the face over it .
Scrooge 's niece played well upon the harp ; and played , among other tunes , a simple little air -LRB- a mere nothing : you might learn to whistle it in two minutes -RRB- , which had been familiar to the child who fetched Scrooge from the boarding-school , as he had been reminded by the Ghost of Christmas Past .
When this strain of music sounded , all the things that Ghost had shown him came upon his mind ; he softened more and more ; and thought that if he could have listened to it often , years ago , he might have cultivated the kindnesses of life for his own happiness with his own hands , without resorting to the sexton 's spade that buried Jacob Marley .
But they did n't devote the whole evening to music .
After awhile they played at forfeits ; for it is good to be children sometimes , and never better than at Christmas , when its mighty Founder was a child himself .
Stop !
There was first a game at blindman 's buff .
Of course there was .
And I no more believe Topper was really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots .
My opinion is , that it was a done thing between him and Scrooge 's nephew ; and that the Ghost of Christmas Present knew it .
The way he went after that plump sister in the lace tucker was an outrage on the credulity of human nature .
Knocking down the fire-irons , tumbling over the chairs , bumping up against the piano , smothering himself amongst the curtains , wherever she went , there went he !
He always knew where the plump sister was .
He would n't catch anybody else .
If you had fallen up against him -LRB- as some of them did -RRB- on purpose , he would have made a feint of endeavouring to seize you , which would have been an affront to your understanding , and would instantly have sidled off in the direction of the plump sister .
She often cried out that it was n't fair ; and it really was not .
But when , at last , he caught her ; when , in spite of all her silken rustlings , and her rapid flutterings past him , he got her into a corner whence there was no escape , then his conduct was the most execrable .
For his pretending not to know her ; his pretending that it was necessary to touch her head-dress , and further to assure himself of her identity by pressing a certain ring upon her finger , and a certain chain about her neck , was vile , monstrous !
No doubt she told him her opinion of it when , another blind man being in office , they were so very confidential together behind the curtains .
Scrooge 's niece was not one of the blindman 's buff party , but was made comfortable with a large chair and a footstool , in a snug corner where the Ghost and Scrooge were close behind her .
But she joined in the forfeits , and loved her love to admiration with all the letters of the alphabet .
Likewise at the game of How , When , and Where , she was very great , and , to the secret joy of Scrooge 's nephew , beat her sisters hollow : though they were sharp girls too , as Topper could have told you .
There might have been twenty people there , young and old , but they all played , and so did Scrooge ; for , wholly forgetting , in the interest he had in what was going on , that his voice made no sound in their ears , he sometimes came out with his guess quite loud , and very often guessed right , too , for the sharpest needle , best Whitechapel , warranted not to cut in the eye , was not sharper than Scrooge ; blunt as he took it in his head to be .
The Ghost was greatly pleased to find him in this mood , and looked upon him with such favour , that he begged like a boy to be allowed to stay until the guests departed .
But this the Spirit said could not be done .
`` Here is a new game , '' said Scrooge .
`` One half-hour , Spirit , only one ! ''
It was a game called Yes and No , where Scrooge 's nephew had to think of something , and the rest must find out what ; he only answering to their questions yes or no , as the case was .
The brisk fire of questioning to which he was exposed elicited from him that he was thinking of an animal , a live animal , rather a disagreeable animal , a savage animal , an animal that growled and grunted sometimes , and talked sometimes , and lived in London , and walked about the streets , and was n't made a show of , and was n't led by anybody , and did n't live in a menagerie , and was never killed in a market , and was not a horse , or an ass , or a cow , or a bull , or a tiger , or a dog , or a pig , or a cat , or a bear .
At every fresh question that was put to him , this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter ; and was so inexpressibly tickled , that he was obliged to get up off the sofa , and stamp .
At last the plump sister , falling into a similar state , cried out : `` I have found it out !
I know what it is , Fred !
I know what it is ! ''
`` What is it ? ''
cried Fred .
`` It 's your uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge ! ''
Which it certainly was .
Admiration was the universal sentiment , though some objected that the reply to `` Is it a bear ? ''
ought to have been `` Yes '' : inasmuch as an answer in the negative was sufficient to have diverted their thoughts from Mr. Scrooge , supposing they had ever had any tendency that way .
`` He has given us plenty of merriment , I am sure , '' said Fred , `` and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health .
Here is a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the moment ; and I say , ` Uncle Scrooge ! ' ''
`` Well !
Uncle Scrooge ! ''
they cried .
`` A merry Christmas and a happy New Year to the old man , whatever he is ! ''
said Scrooge 's nephew .
`` He would n't take it from me , but may he have it nevertheless .
Uncle Scrooge ! ''
Uncle Scrooge had imperceptibly become so gay and light of heart , that he would have pledged the unconscious company in return , and thanked them in an inaudible speech , if the Ghost had given him time .
But the whole scene passed off in the breath of the last word spoken by his nephew ; and he and the Spirit were again upon their travels .
Much they saw , and far they went , and many homes they visited , but always with a happy end .
The Spirit stood beside sick-beds , and they were cheerful ; on foreign lands , and they were close at home ; by struggling men , and they were patient in their greater hope ; by poverty , and it was rich .
In almshouse , hospital , and gaol , in misery 's every refuge , where vain man in his little brief authority had not made fast the door , and barred the Spirit out , he left his blessing , and taught Scrooge his precepts .
It was a long night , if it were only a night ; but Scrooge had his doubts of this , because the Christmas holidays appeared to be condensed into the space of time they passed together .
It was strange , too , that , while Scrooge remained unaltered in his outward form , the Ghost grew older , clearly older .
Scrooge had observed this change , but never spoke of it , until they left a children 's Twelfth-Night party , when , looking at the Spirit as they stood together in an open place , he noticed that its hair was grey .
`` Are spirits ' lives so short ? ''
asked Scrooge .
`` My life upon this globe is very brief , '' replied the Ghost .
`` It ends to-night . ''
`` To-night ! ''
cried Scrooge .
`` To-night at midnight .
Hark !
The time is drawing near . ''
The chimes were ringing the three-quarters past eleven at that moment .
`` Forgive me if I am not justified in what I ask , '' said Scrooge , looking intently at the Spirit 's robe , `` but I see something strange , and not belonging to yourself , protruding from your skirts .
Is it a foot or a claw ? ''
`` It might be a claw , for the flesh there is upon it , '' was the Spirit 's sorrowful reply .
`` Look here . ''
From the foldings of its robe it brought two children ; wretched , abject , frightful , hideous , miserable .
They knelt down at its feet , and clung upon the outside of its garment .
`` Oh , Man !
look here !
Look , look , down here ! ''
exclaimed the Ghost .
They were a boy and girl .
Yellow , meagre , ragged , scowling , wolfish ; but prostrate , too , in their humility .
Where graceful youth should have filled their features out , and touched them with its freshest tints , a stale and shrivelled hand , like that of age , had pinched , and twisted them , and pulled them into shreds .
Where angels might have sat enthroned , devils lurked , and glared out menacing .
No change , no degradation , no perversion of humanity , in any grade , through all the mysteries of wonderful creation , has monsters half so horrible and dread .
Scrooge started back , appalled .
Having them shown to him in this way , he tried to say they were fine children , but the words choked themselves , rather than be parties to a lie of such enormous magnitude .
`` Spirit !
are they yours ? ''
Scrooge could say no more .
`` They are Man 's , '' said the Spirit , looking down upon them .
`` And they cling to me , appealing from their fathers .
This boy is Ignorance .
This girl is Want .
Beware of them both , and all of their degree , but most of all beware this boy , for on his brow I see that written which is Doom , unless the writing be erased .
Deny it ! ''
cried the Spirit , stretching out its hand towards the city .
`` Slander those who tell it ye !
Admit it for your factious purposes , and make it worse !
And bide the end ! ''
`` Have they no refuge or resource ? ''
cried Scrooge .
`` Are there no prisons ? ''
said the Spirit , turning on him for the last time with his own words .
`` Are there no workhouses ? ''
The bell struck Twelve .
Scrooge looked about him for the Ghost , and saw it not .
As the last stroke ceased to vibrate , he remembered the prediction of old Jacob Marley , and , lifting up his eyes , beheld a solemn Phantom , draped and hooded , coming like a mist along the ground towards him .
STAVE FOUR THE LAST OF THE SPIRITS The Phantom slowly , gravely , silently approached .
When it came near him , Scrooge bent down upon his knee ; for in the very air through which this Spirit moved it seemed to scatter gloom and mystery .
It was shrouded in a deep black garment , which concealed its head , its face , its form , and left nothing of it visible , save one outstretched hand .
But for this , it would have been difficult to detach its figure from the night , and separate it from the darkness by which it was surrounded .
He felt that it was tall and stately when it came beside him , and that its mysterious presence filled him with a solemn dread .
He knew no more , for the Spirit neither spoke nor moved .
`` I am in the presence of the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come ? ''
said Scrooge .
The Spirit answered not , but pointed onward with its hand .
`` You are about to show me shadows of the things that have not happened , but will happen in the time before us , '' Scrooge pursued .
`` Is that so , Spirit ? ''
The upper portion of the garment was contracted for an instant in its folds , as if the Spirit had inclined its head .
That was the only answer he received .
Although well used to ghostly company by this time , Scrooge feared the silent shape so much that his legs trembled beneath him , and he found that he could hardly stand when he prepared to follow it .
The Spirit paused a moment , as observing his condition , and giving him time to recover .
But Scrooge was all the worse for this .
It thrilled him with a vague uncertain horror to know that , behind the dusky shroud , there were ghostly eyes intently fixed upon him , while he , though he stretched his own to the utmost , could see nothing but a spectral hand and one great heap of black .
`` Ghost of the Future ! ''
he exclaimed , `` I fear you more than any spectre I have seen .
But , as I know your purpose is to do me good , and as I hope to live to be another man from what I was , I am prepared to bear you company , and do it with a thankful heart .
Will you not speak to me ? ''
It gave him no reply .
The hand was pointed straight before them .
`` Lead on ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` Lead on !
The night is waning fast , and it is precious time to me , I know .
Lead on , Spirit ! ''
The phantom moved away as it had come towards him .
Scrooge followed in the shadow of its dress , which bore him up , he thought , and carried him along .
They scarcely seemed to enter the City ; for the City rather seemed to spring up about them , and encompass them of its own act .
But there they were in the heart of it ; on ` Change , amongst the merchants ; who hurried up and down , and chinked the money in their pockets , and conversed in groups , and looked at their watches , and trifled thoughtfully with their great gold seals ; and so forth , as Scrooge had seen them often .
The Spirit stopped beside one little knot of business men .
Observing that the hand was pointed to them , Scrooge advanced to listen to their talk .
`` No , '' said a great fat man with a monstrous chin , `` I do n't know much about it either way .
I only know he 's dead . ''
`` When did he die ? ''
inquired another .
`` Last night , I believe . ''
`` Why , what was the matter with him ? ''
asked a third , taking a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff-box .
`` I thought he 'd never die . ''
`` God knows , '' said the first with a yawn .
`` What has he done with his money ? ''
asked a red-faced gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his nose , that shook like the gills of a turkey-cock .
`` I have n't heard , '' said the man with the large chin , yawning again .
`` Left it to his company , perhaps .
He has n't left it to me .
That 's all I know . ''
This pleasantry was received with a general laugh .
`` It 's likely to be a very cheap funeral , '' said the same speaker ; `` for , upon my life , I do n't know of anybody to go to it .
Suppose we make up a party , and volunteer ? ''
`` I do n't mind going if a lunch is provided , '' observed the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose .
`` But I must be fed if I make one . ''
Another laugh .
`` Well , I am the most disinterested among you , after all , '' said the first speaker , `` for I never wear black gloves , and I never eat lunch .
But I 'll offer to go if anybody else will .
When I come to think of it , I 'm not at all sure that I was n't his most particular friend ; for we used to stop and speak whenever we met .
Bye , bye ! ''
Speakers and listeners strolled away , and mixed with other groups .
Scrooge knew the men , and looked towards the Spirit for an explanation .
The Phantom glided on into a street .
Its finger pointed to two persons meeting .
Scrooge listened again , thinking that the explanation might lie here .
He knew these men , also , perfectly .
They were men of business : very wealthy , and of great importance .
He had made a point always of standing well in their esteem : in a business point of view , that is ; strictly in a business point of view .
`` How are you ? ''
said one .
`` How are you ? ''
returned the other .
`` Well ! ''
said the first .
`` Old Scratch has got his own at last , hey ? ''
`` So I am told , '' returned the second .
`` Cold , is n't it ? ''
`` Seasonable for Christmas-time .
You are not a skater , I suppose ? ''
`` No .
No .
Something else to think of .
Good morning ! ''
Not another word .
That was their meeting , their conversation , and their parting .
Scrooge was at first inclined to be surprised that the Spirit should attach importance to conversations apparently so trivial ; but , feeling assured that they must have some hidden purpose , he set himself to consider what it was likely to be .
They could scarcely be supposed to have any bearing on the death of Jacob , his old partner , for that was Past , and this Ghost 's province was the Future .
Nor could he think of any one immediately connected with himself , to whom he could apply them .
But nothing doubting that , to whomsoever they applied , they had some latent moral for his own improvement , he resolved to treasure up every word he heard , and everything he saw ; and especially to observe the shadow of himself when it appeared .
For he had an expectation that the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he missed , and would render the solution of these riddles easy .
He looked about in that very place for his own image , but another man stood in his accustomed corner , and , though the clock pointed to his usual time of day for being there , he saw no likeness of himself among the multitudes that poured in through the Porch .
It gave him little surprise , however ; for he had been revolving in his mind a change of life , and thought and hoped he saw his new-born resolutions carried out in this .
Quiet and dark , beside him stood the Phantom , with its outstretched hand .
When he roused himself from his thoughtful quest , he fancied , from the turn of the hand , and its situation in reference to himself , that the Unseen Eyes were looking at him keenly .
It made him shudder , and feel very cold .
They left the busy scene , and went into an obscure part of the town , where Scrooge had never penetrated before , although he recognised its situation and its bad repute .
The ways were foul and narrow ; the shops and houses wretched ; the people half naked , drunken , slipshod , ugly .
Alleys and archways , like so many cesspools , disgorged their offences of smell , and dirt , and life upon the straggling streets ; and the whole quarter reeked with crime , with filth and misery .
Far in this den of infamous resort , there was a low-browed , beetling shop , below a pent-house roof , where iron , old rags , bottles , bones , and greasy offal were bought .
Upon the floor within were piled up heaps of rusty keys , nails , chains , hinges , files , scales , weights , and refuse iron of all kinds .
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags , masses of corrupted fat , and sepulchres of bones .
Sitting in among the wares he dealt in , by a charcoal stove made of old bricks , was a grey-haired rascal , nearly seventy years of age , who had screened himself from the cold air without by a frouzy curtaining of miscellaneous tatters hung upon a line , and smoked his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement .
Scrooge and the Phantom came into the presence of this man , just as a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the shop .
But she had scarcely entered , when another woman , similarly laden , came in too , and she was closely followed by a man in faded black , who was no less startled by the sight of them than they had been upon the recognition of each other .
After a short period of blank astonishment , in which the old man with the pipe had joined them , they all three burst into a laugh .
`` Let the charwoman alone to be the first ! ''
cried she who had entered first .
`` Let the laundress alone to be the second ; and let the undertaker 's man alone to be the third .
Look here , old Joe , here 's a chance !
If we have n't all three met here without meaning it ! ''
`` You could n't have met in a better place , '' said old Joe , removing his pipe from his mouth .
`` Come into the parlour .
You were made free of it long ago , you know ; and the other two a n't strangers .
Stop till I shut the door of the shop .
Ah !
How it skreeks !
There a n't such a rusty bit of metal in the place as its own hinges , I believe ; and I 'm sure there 's no such old bones here as mine .
Ha !
ha !
We 're all suitable to our calling , we 're well matched .
Come into the parlour .
Come into the parlour . ''
The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags .
The old man raked the fire together with an old stair-rod , and , having trimmed his smoky lamp -LRB- for it was night -RRB- with the stem of his pipe , put it into his mouth again .
While he did this , the woman who had already spoken threw her bundle on the floor , and sat down in a flaunting manner on a stool ; crossing her elbows on her knees , and looking with a bold defiance at the other two .
`` What odds , then ?
What odds , Mrs. Dilber ? ''
said the woman .
`` Every person has a right to take care of themselves .
He always did ! ''
`` That 's true , indeed ! ''
said the laundress .
`` No man more so . ''
`` Why , then , do n't stand staring as if you was afraid , woman !
Who 's the wiser ?
We 're not going to pick holes in each other 's coats , I suppose ? ''
`` No , indeed ! ''
said Mrs. Dilber and the man together .
`` We should hope not . ''
`` Very well , then ! ''
cried the woman .
`` That 's enough .
Who 's the worse for the loss of a few things like these ?
Not a dead man , I suppose ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' said Mrs. Dilber , laughing .
`` If he wanted to keep 'em after he was dead , a wicked old screw , '' pursued the woman , `` why was n't he natural in his lifetime ?
If he had been , he 'd have had somebody to look after him when he was struck with Death , instead of lying gasping out his last there , alone by himself . ''
`` It 's the truest word that ever was spoke , '' said Mrs. Dilber , `` It 's a judgment on him . ''
`` I wish it was a little heavier judgment , '' replied the woman ; `` and it should have been , you may depend upon it , if I could have laid my hands on anything else .
Open that bundle , old Joe , and let me know the value of it .
Speak out plain .
I 'm not afraid to be the first , nor afraid for them to see it .
We knew pretty well that we were helping ourselves before we met here , I believe .
It 's no sin .
Open the bundle , Joe . ''
But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this ; and the man in faded black , mounting the breach first , produced his plunder .
It was not extensive .
A seal or two , a pencil-case , a pair of sleeve-buttons , and a brooch of no great value , were all .
They were severally examined and appraised by old Joe , who chalked the sums he was disposed to give for each upon the wall , and added them up into a total when he found that there was nothing more to come .
`` That 's your account , '' said Joe , `` and I would n't give another sixpence , if I was to be boiled for not doing it .
Who 's next ? ''
Mrs. Dilber was next .
Sheets and towels , a little wearing apparel , two old-fashioned silver tea-spoons , a pair of sugar-tongs , and a few boots .
Her account was stated on the wall in the same manner .
`` I always give too much to ladies .
It 's a weakness of mine , and that 's the way I ruin myself , '' said old Joe .
`` That 's your account .
If you asked me for another penny , and made it an open question , I 'd repent of being so liberal , and knock off half-a-crown . ''
`` And now undo my bundle , Joe , '' said the first woman .
Joe went down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening it , and , having unfastened a great many knots , dragged out a large heavy roll of some dark stuff .
`` What do you call this ? ''
said Joe .
`` Bed-curtains ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
returned the woman , laughing and leaning forward on her crossed arms .
`` Bed-curtains ! ''
`` You do n't mean to say you took 'em down , rings and all , with him lying there ? ''
said Joe .
`` Yes , I do , '' replied the woman .
`` Why not ? ''
`` You were born to make your fortune , '' said Joe , `` and you 'll certainly do it . ''
`` I certainly sha n't hold my hand , when I can get anything in it by reaching it out , for the sake of such a man as He was , I promise you , Joe , '' returned the woman coolly .
`` Do n't drop that oil upon the blankets , now . ''
`` His blankets ? ''
asked Joe .
`` Whose else 's do you think ? ''
replied the woman .
`` He is n't likely to take cold without 'em , I dare say . ''
`` I hope he did n't die of anything catching ?
Eh ? ''
said old Joe , stopping in his work , and looking up .
`` Do n't you be afraid of that , '' returned the woman .
`` I a n't so fond of his company that I 'd loiter about him for such things , if he did .
Ah !
You may look through that shirt till your eyes ache ; but you wo n't find a hole in it , nor a threadbare place .
It 's the best he had , and a fine one too .
They 'd have wasted it , if it had n't been for me . ''
`` What do you call wasting of it ? ''
asked old Joe .
`` Putting it on him to be buried in , to be sure , '' replied the woman with a laugh .
`` Somebody was fool enough to do it , but I took it off again .
If calico a n't good enough for such a purpose , it is n't good enough for anything .
It 's quite as becoming to the body .
He ca n't look uglier than he did in that one . ''
Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror .
As they sat grouped about their spoil , in the scanty light afforded by the old man 's lamp , he viewed them with a detestation and disgust which could hardly have been greater , though they had been obscene demons , marketing the corpse itself .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laughed the same woman when old Joe , producing a flannel bag with money in it , told out their several gains upon the ground .
`` This is the end of it , you see !
He frightened every one away from him when he was alive , to profit us when he was dead !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` Spirit ! ''
said Scrooge , shuddering from head to foot .
`` I see , I see .
The case of this unhappy man might be my own .
My life tends that way now .
Merciful Heaven , what is this ? ''
He recoiled in terror , for the scene had changed , and now he almost touched a bed : a bare , uncurtained bed : on which , beneath a ragged sheet , there lay a something covered up , which , though it was dumb , announced itself in awful language .
The room was very dark , too dark to be observed with any accuracy , though Scrooge glanced round it in obedience to a secret impulse , anxious to know what kind of room it was .
A pale light , rising in the outer air , fell straight upon the bed : and on it , plundered and bereft , unwatched , unwept , uncared for , was the body of this man .
Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom .
Its steady hand was pointed to the head .
The cover was so carelessly adjusted that the slightest raising of it , the motion of a finger upon Scrooge 's part , would have disclosed the face .
He thought of it , felt how easy it would be to do , and longed to do it ; but had no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss the spectre at his side .
Oh , cold , cold , rigid , dreadful Death , set up thine altar here , and dress it with such terrors as thou hast at thy command : for this is thy dominion !
But of the loved , revered , and honoured head thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes , or make one feature odious .
It is not that the hand is heavy , and will fall down when released ; it is not that the heart and pulse are still ; but that the hand WAS open , generous , and true ; the heart brave , warm , and tender ; and the pulse a man 's .
Strike , Shadow , strike !
And see his good deeds springing from the wound , to sow the world with life immortal !
No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge 's ears , and yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed .
He thought , if this man could be raised up now , what would be his foremost thoughts ?
Avarice , hard dealing , griping cares ?
They have brought him to a rich end , truly !
He lay , in the dark , empty house , with not a man , a woman , or a child to say he was kind to me in this or that , and for the memory of one kind word I will be kind to him .
A cat was tearing at the door , and there was a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth-stone .
What they wanted in the room of death , and why they were so restless and disturbed , Scrooge did not dare to think .
`` Spirit ! ''
he said , `` this is a fearful place .
In leaving it , I shall not leave its lesson , trust me .
Let us go ! ''
Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the head .
`` I understand you , '' Scrooge returned , `` and I would do it if I could .
But I have not the power , Spirit .
I have not the power . ''
Again it seemed to look upon him .
`` If there is any person in the town who feels emotion caused by this man 's death , '' said Scrooge , quite agonised , `` show that person to me , Spirit !
I beseech you . ''
The Phantom spread its dark robe before him for a moment , like a wing ; and , withdrawing it , revealed a room by daylight , where a mother and her children were .
She was expecting some one , and with anxious eagerness ; for she walked up and down the room ; started at every sound ; looked out from the window ; glanced at the clock ; tried , but in vain , to work with her needle ; and could hardly bear the voices of her children in their play .
At length the long-expected knock was heard .
She hurried to the door , and met her husband ; a man whose face was careworn and depressed , though he was young .
There was a remarkable expression in it now ; a kind of serious delight of which he felt ashamed , and which he struggled to repress .
He sat down to the dinner that had been hoarding for him by the fire , and , when she asked him faintly what news -LRB- which was not until after a long silence -RRB- , he appeared embarrassed how to answer .
`` Is it good , '' she said , `` or bad ? ''
to help him .
`` Bad , '' he answered .
`` We are quite ruined ? ''
`` No .
There is hope yet , Caroline . ''
`` If he relents , '' she said , amazed , `` there is !
Nothing is past hope , if such a miracle has happened . ''
`` He is past relenting , '' said her husband .
`` He is dead . ''
She was a mild and patient creature , if her face spoke truth ; but she was thankful in her soul to hear it , and she said so with clasped hands .
She prayed forgiveness the next moment , and was sorry ; but the first was the emotion of her heart .
`` What the half-drunken woman , whom I told you of last night , said to me when I tried to see him and obtain a week 's delay , and what I thought was a mere excuse to avoid me , turns out to have been quite true .
He was not only very ill , but dying , then . ''
`` To whom will our debt be transferred ? ''
`` I do n't know .
But , before that time , we shall be ready with the money ; and , even though we were not , it would be bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his successor .
We may sleep to-night with light hearts , Caroline ! ''
Yes .
Soften it as they would , their hearts were lighter .
The children 's faces , hushed and clustered round to hear what they so little understood , were brighter ; and it was a happier house for this man 's death !
The only emotion that the Ghost could show him , caused by the event , was one of pleasure .
`` Let me see some tenderness connected with a death , '' said Scrooge ; `` or that dark chamber , Spirit , which we left just now , will be for ever present to me . ''
The Ghost conducted him through several streets familiar to his feet ; and , as they went along , Scrooge looked here and there to find himself , but nowhere was he to be seen .
They entered poor Bob Cratchit 's house , -- the dwelling he had visited before , -- and found the mother and the children seated round the fire .
Quiet .
Very quiet .
The noisy little Cratchits were as still as statues in one corner , and sat looking up at Peter , who had a book before him .
The mother and her daughters were engaged in sewing .
But surely they were very quiet ! ''
` And he took a child , and set him in the midst of them . ' ''
Where had Scrooge heard those words ?
He had not dreamed them .
The boy must have read them out , as he and the Spirit crossed the threshold .
Why did he not go on ?
The mother laid her work upon the table , and put her hand up to her face .
`` The colour hurts my eyes , '' she said .
The colour ?
Ah , poor Tiny Tim !
`` They 're better now again , '' said Cratchit 's wife .
`` It makes them weak by candle-light ; and I would n't show weak eyes to your father , when he comes home , for the world .
It must be near his time . ''
`` Past it rather , '' Peter answered , shutting up his book .
`` But I think he has walked a little slower than he used , these few last evenings , mother . ''
They were very quiet again .
At last she said , and in a steady , cheerful voice , that only faltered once : `` I have known him walk with -- I have known him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder very fast indeed . ''
`` And so have I , '' cried Peter .
`` Often . ''
`` And so have I , '' exclaimed another .
So had all .
`` But he was very light to carry , '' she resumed , intent upon her work , `` and his father loved him so , that it was no trouble : no trouble .
And there is your father at the door ! ''
She hurried out to meet him ; and little Bob in his comforter -- he had need of it , poor fellow -- came in .
His tea was ready for him on the hob , and they all tried who should help him to it most .
Then the two young Cratchits got upon his knees , and laid , each child , a little cheek against his face , as if they said , `` Do n't mind it , father .
Do n't be grieved ! ''
Bob was very cheerful with them , and spoke pleasantly to all the family .
He looked at the work upon the table , and praised the industry and speed of Mrs. Cratchit and the girls .
They would be done long before Sunday , he said .
`` Sunday !
You went to-day , then , Robert ? ''
said his wife .
`` Yes , my dear , '' returned Bob .
`` I wish you could have gone .
It would have done you good to see how green a place it is .
But you 'll see it often .
I promised him that I would walk there on a Sunday .
My little , little child ! ''
cried Bob .
`` My little child ! ''
He broke down all at once .
He could n't help it .
If he could have helped it , he and his child would have been farther apart , perhaps , than they were .
He left the room , and went up-stairs into the room above , which was lighted cheerfully , and hung with Christmas .
There was a chair set close beside the child , and there were signs of some one having been there lately .
Poor Bob sat down in it , and , when he had thought a little and composed himself , he kissed the little face .
He was reconciled to what had happened , and went down again quite happy .
They drew about the fire , and talked ; the girls and mother working still .
Bob told them of the extraordinary kindness of Mr. Scrooge 's nephew , whom he had scarcely seen but once , and who , meeting him in the street that day , and seeing that he looked a little -- `` just a little down , you know , '' said Bob , inquired what had happened to distress him .
`` On which , '' said Bob , `` for he is the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you ever heard , I told him . '
I am heartily sorry for it , Mr. Cratchit , ' he said , ` and heartily sorry for your good wife . '
By-the-bye , how he ever knew that I do n't know . ''
`` Knew what , my dear ? ''
`` Why , that you were a good wife , '' replied Bob .
`` Everybody knows that , '' said Peter .
`` Very well observed , my boy ! ''
cried Bob .
`` I hope they do .
` Heartily sorry , ' he said , ` for your good wife .
If I can be of service to you in any way , ' he said , giving me his card , ` that 's where I live .
Pray come to me . '
Now , it was n't , '' cried Bob , `` for the sake of anything he might be able to do for us , so much as for his kind way , that this was quite delightful .
It really seemed as if he had known our Tiny Tim , and felt with us . ''
`` I 'm sure he 's a good soul ! ''
said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` You would be sure of it , my dear , '' returned Bob , `` if you saw and spoke to him .
I should n't be at all surprised -- mark what I say !
-- if he got Peter a better situation . ''
`` Only hear that , Peter , '' said Mrs. Cratchit .
`` And then , '' cried one of the girls , `` Peter will be keeping company with some one , and setting up for himself . ''
`` Get along with you ! ''
retorted Peter , grinning .
`` It 's just as likely as not , '' said Bob , `` one of these days ; though there 's plenty of time for that , my dear .
But , however and whenever we part from one another , I am sure we shall none of us forget poor Tiny Tim -- shall we -- or this first parting that there was among us ? ''
`` Never , father ! ''
cried they all .
`` And I know , '' said Bob , `` I know , my dears , that when we recollect how patient and how mild he was , although he was a little , little child , we shall not quarrel easily among ourselves , and forget poor Tiny Tim in doing it . ''
`` No , never , father ! ''
they all cried again .
`` I am very happy , '' said little Bob , `` I am very happy ! ''
Mrs. Cratchit kissed him , his daughters kissed him , the two young Cratchits kissed him , and Peter and himself shook hands .
Spirit of Tiny Tim , thy childish essence was from God !
`` Spectre , '' said Scrooge , `` something informs me that our parting moment is at hand .
I know it , but I know not how .
Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead ? ''
The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come conveyed him , as before -- though at a different time , he thought : indeed , there seemed no order in these latter visions , save that they were in the Future -- into the resorts of business men , but showed him not himself .
Indeed , the Spirit did not stay for anything , but went straight on , as to the end just now desired , until besought by Scrooge to tarry for a moment .
`` This court , '' said Scrooge , `` through which we hurry now , is where my place of occupation is , and has been for a length of time .
I see the house .
Let me behold what I shall be in days to come . ''
The Spirit stopped ; the hand was pointed elsewhere .
`` The house is yonder , '' Scrooge exclaimed .
`` Why do you point away ? ''
The inexorable finger underwent no change .
Scrooge hastened to the window of his office , and looked in .
It was an office still , but not his .
The furniture was not the same , and the figure in the chair was not himself .
The Phantom pointed as before .
He joined it once again , and , wondering why and whither he had gone , accompanied it until they reached an iron gate .
He paused to look round before entering .
A churchyard .
Here , then , the wretched man , whose name he had now to learn , lay underneath the ground .
It was a worthy place .
Walled in by houses ; overrun by grass and weeds , the growth of vegetation 's death , not life ; choked up with too much burying ; fat with repleted appetite .
A worthy place !
The Spirit stood among the graves , and pointed down to One .
He advanced towards it trembling .
The Phantom was exactly as it had been , but he dreaded that he saw new meaning in its solemn shape .
`` Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point , '' said Scrooge , `` answer me one question .
Are these the shadows of the things that Will be , or are they shadows of the things that May be only ? ''
Still the Ghost pointed downward to the grave by which it stood .
`` Men 's courses will foreshadow certain ends , to which , if persevered in , they must lead , '' said Scrooge .
`` But if the courses be departed from , the ends will change .
Say it is thus with what you show me ! ''
The Spirit was immovable as ever .
Scrooge crept towards it , trembling as he went ; and , following the finger , read upon the stone of the neglected grave his own name , EBENEZER SCROOGE .
`` Am I that man who lay upon the bed ? ''
he cried upon his knees .
The finger pointed from the grave to him , and back again .
`` No , Spirit !
Oh no , no ! ''
The finger still was there .
`` Spirit ! ''
he cried , tight clutching at its robe , `` hear me !
I am not the man I was .
I will not be the man I must have been but for this intercourse .
Why show me this , if I am past all hope ? ''
For the first time the hand appeared to shake .
`` Good Spirit , '' he pursued , as down upon the ground he fell before it : `` your nature intercedes for me , and pities me .
Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have shown me by an altered life ? ''
The kind hand trembled .
`` I will honour Christmas in my heart , and try to keep it all the year .
I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future .
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me .
I will not shut out the lessons that they teach .
Oh , tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone ! ''
In his agony , he caught the spectral hand .
It sought to free itself , but he was strong in his entreaty , and detained it .
The Spirit , stronger yet , repulsed him .
Holding up his hands in a last prayer to have his fate reversed , he saw an alteration in the Phantom 's hood and dress .
It shrunk , collapsed , and dwindled down into a bedpost .
STAVE FIVE THE END OF IT Yes !
and the bedpost was his own .
The bed was his own , the room was his own .
Best and happiest of all , the Time before him was his own , to make amends in !
`` I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future ! ''
Scrooge repeated as he scrambled out of bed .
`` The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me .
Oh , Jacob Marley !
Heaven and the Christmas Time be praised for this !
I say it on my knees , old Jacob ; on my knees ! ''
He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions , that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call .
He had been sobbing violently in his conflict with the Spirit , and his face was wet with tears .
`` They are not torn down , '' cried Scrooge , folding one of his bed-curtains in his arms , `` they are not torn down , rings and all .
They are here -- I am here -- the shadows of the things that would have been may be dispelled .
They will be .
I know they will ! ''
His hands were busy with his garments all this time ; turning them inside out , putting them on upside down , tearing them , mislaying them , making them parties to every kind of extravagance .
`` I do n't know what to do ! ''
cried Scrooge , laughing and crying in the same breath ; and making a perfect Laocon of himself with his stockings .
`` I am as light as a feather , I am as happy as an angel , I am as merry as a school-boy .
I am as giddy as a drunken man .
A merry Christmas to everybody !
A happy New Year to all the world !
Hallo here !
Whoop !
Hallo ! ''
He had frisked into the sitting-room , and was now standing there : perfectly winded .
`` There 's the saucepan that the gruel was in ! ''
cried Scrooge , starting off again , and going round the fire-place .
`` There 's the door by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley entered !
There 's the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present sat !
There 's the window where I saw the wandering Spirits !
It 's all right , it 's all true , it all happened .
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
Really , for a man who had been out of practice for so many years , it was a splendid laugh , a most illustrious laugh .
The father of a long , long line of brilliant laughs !
`` I do n't know what day of the month it is , '' said Scrooge .
`` I do n't know how long I have been among the Spirits .
I do n't know anything .
I 'm quite a baby .
Never mind .
I do n't care .
I 'd rather be a baby .
Hallo !
Whoop !
Hallo here ! ''
He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing out the lustiest peals he had ever heard .
Clash , clash , hammer ; ding , dong , bell !
Bell , dong , ding ; hammer , clang , clash !
Oh , glorious , glorious !
Running to the window , he opened it , and put out his head .
No fog , no mist ; clear , bright , jovial , stirring , cold ; cold , piping for the blood to dance to ; Golden sun-light ; Heavenly sky ; sweet fresh air ; merry bells .
Oh , glorious !
Glorious !
`` What 's to-day ? ''
cried Scrooge , calling downward to a boy in Sunday clothes , who perhaps had loitered in to look about him .
`` EH ? ''
returned the boy with all his might of wonder .
`` What 's to-day , my fine fellow ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` To-day ! ''
replied the boy .
`` Why , CHRISTMAS DAY . ''
`` It 's Christmas Day ! ''
said Scrooge to himself .
`` I have n't missed it .
The Spirits have done it all in one night .
They can do anything they like .
Of course they can .
Of course they can .
Hallo , my fine fellow ! ''
`` Hallo ! ''
returned the boy .
`` Do you know the Poulterer 's in the next street but one , at the corner ? ''
Scrooge inquired .
`` I should hope I did , '' replied the lad .
`` An intelligent boy ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` A remarkable boy !
Do you know whether they 've sold the prize Turkey that was hanging up there ?
-- Not the little prize Turkey : the big one ? ''
`` What !
the one as big as me ? ''
returned the boy .
`` What a delightful boy ! ''
said Scrooge .
`` It 's a pleasure to talk to him .
Yes , my buck ! ''
`` It 's hanging there now , '' replied the boy .
`` Is it ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` Go and buy it . ''
`` Walk-ER ! ''
exclaimed the boy .
`` No , no , '' said Scrooge , `` I am in earnest .
Go and buy it , and tell 'em to bring it here , that I may give them the directions where to take it .
Come back with the man , and I 'll give you a shilling .
Come back with him in less than five minutes , and I 'll give you half-a-crown ! ''
The boy was off like a shot .
He must have had a steady hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast .
`` I 'll send it to Bob Cratchit 's , '' whispered Scrooge , rubbing his hands , and splitting with a laugh .
`` He sha n't know who sends it .
It 's twice the size of Tiny Tim .
Joe Miller never made such a joke as sending it to Bob 's will be ! ''
The hand in which he wrote the address was not a steady one ; but write it he did , somehow , and went down-stairs to open the street-door , ready for the coming of the poulterer 's man .
As he stood there , waiting his arrival , the knocker caught his eye .
`` I shall love it as long as I live ! ''
cried Scrooge , patting it with his hand .
`` I scarcely ever looked at it before .
What an honest expression it has in its face !
It 's a wonderful knocker !
-- Here 's the Turkey .
Hallo !
Whoop !
How are you ?
Merry Christmas ! ''
It was a Turkey !
He never could have stood upon his legs , that bird .
He would have snapped 'em short off in a minute , like sticks of sealing-wax .
`` Why , it 's impossible to carry that to Camden Town , '' said Scrooge .
`` You must have a cab . ''
The chuckle with which he said this , and the chuckle with which he paid for the Turkey , and the chuckle with which he paid for the cab , and the chuckle with which he recompensed the boy , were only to be exceeded by the chuckle with which he sat down breathless in his chair again , and chuckled till he cried .
Shaving was not an easy task , for his hand continued to shake very much ; and shaving requires attention , even when you do n't dance while you are at it .
But , if he had cut the end of his nose off , he would have put a piece of sticking-plaster over it , and been quite satisfied .
He dressed himself `` all in his best , '' and at last got out into the streets .
The people were by this time pouring forth , as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present ; and , walking with his hands behind him , Scrooge regarded every one with a delighted smile .
He looked so irresistibly pleasant , in a word , that three or four good-humoured fellows said , `` Good morning , sir !
A merry Christmas to you ! ''
And Scrooge said often afterwards that , of all the blithe sounds he had ever heard , those were the blithest in his ears .
He had not gone far when , coming on towards him , he beheld the portly gentleman who had walked into his counting-house the day before , and said , `` Scrooge and Marley 's , I believe ? ''
It sent a pang across his heart to think how this old gentleman would look upon him when they met ; but he knew what path lay straight before him , and he took it .
`` My dear sir , '' said Scrooge , quickening his pace , and taking the old gentleman by both his hands , `` how do you do ?
I hope you succeeded yesterday .
It was very kind of you .
A merry Christmas to you , sir ! ''
`` Mr. Scrooge ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Scrooge .
`` That is my name , and I fear it may not be pleasant to you .
Allow me to ask your pardon .
And will you have the goodness -- '' Here Scrooge whispered in his ear .
`` Lord bless me ! ''
cried the gentleman , as if his breath were taken away .
`` My dear Mr. Scrooge , are you serious ? ''
`` If you please , '' said Scrooge .
`` Not a farthing less .
A great many back-payments are included in it , I assure you .
Will you do me that favour ? ''
`` My dear sir , '' said the other , shaking hands with him , `` I do n't know what to say to such munifi -- '' `` Do n't say anything , please , '' retorted Scrooge .
`` Come and see me .
Will you come and see me ? ''
`` I will ! ''
cried the old gentleman .
And it was clear he meant to do it .
`` Thankee , '' said Scrooge .
`` I am much obliged to you .
I thank you fifty times .
Bless you ! ''
He went to church , and walked about the streets , and watched the people hurrying to and fro , and patted the children on the head , and questioned beggars , and looked down into the kitchens of houses , and up to the windows ; and found that everything could yield him pleasure .
He had never dreamed that any walk -- that anything -- could give him so much happiness .
In the afternoon he turned his steps towards his nephew 's house .
He passed the door a dozen times before he had the courage to go up and knock .
But he made a dash , and did it .
`` Is your master at home , my dear ? ''
said Scrooge to the girl .
Nice girl !
Very .
`` Yes sir . ''
`` Where is he , my love ? ''
said Scrooge .
`` He 's in the dining-room , sir , along with mistress .
I 'll show you up-stairs , if you please . ''
`` Thankee .
He knows me , '' said Scrooge , with his hand already on the dining-room lock .
`` I 'll go in here , my dear . ''
He turned it gently , and sidled his face in round the door .
They were looking at the table -LRB- which was spread out in great array -RRB- ; for these young housekeepers are always nervous on such points , and like to see that everything is right .
`` Fred ! ''
said Scrooge .
Dear heart alive , how his niece by marriage started !
Scrooge had forgotten , for the moment , about her sitting in the corner with the footstool , or he would n't have done it on any account .
`` Why , bless my soul ! ''
cried Fred , `` who 's that ? ''
`` It 's I. Your uncle Scrooge .
I have come to dinner .
Will you let me in , Fred ? ''
Let him in !
It is a mercy he did n't shake his arm off .
He was at home in five minutes .
Nothing could be heartier .
His niece looked just the same .
So did Topper when he came .
So did the plump sister when she came .
So did every one when they came .
Wonderful party , wonderful games , wonderful unanimity , won-der-ful happiness !
But he was early at the office next morning .
Oh , he was early there !
If he could only be there first , and catch Bob Cratchit coming late !
That was the thing he had set his heart upon .
And he did it ; yes , he did !
The clock struck nine .
No Bob .
A quarter past .
No Bob .
He was full eighteen minutes and a half behind his time .
Scrooge sat with his door wide open , that he might see him come into the tank .
His hat was off before he opened the door ; his comforter too .
He was on his stool in a jiffy ; driving away with his pen , as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock .
`` Hallo ! ''
growled Scrooge in his accustomed voice as near as he could feign it .
`` What do you mean by coming here at this time of day ? ''
`` I am very sorry , sir , '' said Bob .
`` I am behind my time . ''
`` You are ! ''
repeated Scrooge .
`` Yes .
I think you are .
Step this way , sir , if you please . ''
`` It 's only once a year , sir , '' pleaded Bob , appearing from the tank .
`` It shall not be repeated .
I was making rather merry yesterday , sir . ''
`` Now , I 'll tell you what , my friend , '' said Scrooge .
`` I am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer .
And therefore , '' he continued , leaping from his stool , and giving Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that he staggered back into the tank again : `` and therefore I am about to raise your salary ! ''
Bob trembled , and got a little nearer to the ruler .
He had a momentary idea of knocking Scrooge down with it , holding him , and calling to the people in the court for help and a strait-waistcoat .
`` A merry Christmas , Bob ! ''
said Scrooge with an earnestness that could not be mistaken , as he clapped him on the back .
`` A merrier Christmas , Bob , my good fellow , than I have given you for many a year !
I 'll raise your salary , and endeavour to assist your struggling family , and we will discuss your affairs this very afternoon , over a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop , Bob !
Make up the fires and buy another coal-scuttle before you dot another i , Bob Cratchit ! ''
* * * * * Scrooge was better than his word .
He did it all , and infinitely more ; and to Tiny Tim , who did NOT die , he was a second father .
He became as good a friend , as good a master , and as good a man as the good old City knew , or any other good old city , town , or borough in the good old world .
Some people laughed to see the alteration in him , but he let them laugh , and little heeded them ; for he was wise enough to know that nothing ever happened on this globe , for good , at which some people did not have their fill of laughter in the outset ; and , knowing that such as these would be blind anyway , he thought it quite as well that they should wrinkle up their eyes in grins as have the malady in less attractive forms .
His own heart laughed : and that was quite enough for him .
He had no further intercourse with Spirits , but lived upon the Total-Abstinence Principle ever afterwards ; and it was always said of him that he knew how to keep Christmas well , if any man alive possessed the knowledge .
May that be truly said of us , and all of us !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Charles_Dickens___The_Cricket_on_the_Hearth.txt.out
THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH A FAIRY TALE OF HOME CHIRP THE FIRST The kettle began it !
Do n't tell me what Mrs. Peerybingle said .
I know better .
Mrs. Peerybingle may leave it on record to the end of time that she could n't say which of them began it ; but I say the kettle did .
I ought to know , I hope ?
The kettle began it , full five minutes by the little waxy-faced Dutch clock in the corner , before the Cricket uttered a chirp .
As if the clock had n't finished striking , and the convulsive little Hay-maker at the top of it , jerking away right and left with a scythe in front of a Moorish Palace , had n't mowed down half an acre of imaginary grass before the Cricket joined in at all !
