` What is the matter with me ? '
she thought , but somehow or other she managed to reach the hut , and threw herself down in a corner , where she slept so soundly that for days no one was able to wake her .
At length , one morning early , a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying , and that he was telling her that Djulung was dead , killed and eaten by her sisters , and that his bones lay buried under the kitchen fire .
Very softly she got up , and took up the large stone under the fire , and creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain , where she dug a hole and buried them anew .
And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song , bidding the bones grow till they became a tree -- a tree that reached up so high into the heavens that its leaves would fall across the sea into another island , whose king would pick them up .
As there was no Djulung to give her rice to , the girl soon became fat again , and as she was able to do her work as of old , her sisters did not trouble about her .
They never guessed that when she went into the forest to gather her sticks , she never failed to pay a visit to the tree , which grew taller and more wonderful day by day .
Never was such a tree seen before .
Its trunk was of iron , its leaves were of silk , its flowers of gold , and its fruit of diamonds , and one evening , though the girl did not know it , a soft breeze took one of the leaves , and blew it across the sea to the feet of one of the king 's attendants .
` What a curious leaf !
I have never beheld one like it before .
I must show it to the king , ' he said , and when the king saw it he declared he would never rest until he had found the tree which bore it , even if he had to spend the rest of his life in visiting the islands that lay all round .
Happily for him , he began with the island that was nearest , and here in the forest he suddenly saw standing before him the iron tree , its boughs covered with shining leaves like the one he carried about him .
` But what sort of a tree is it , and how did it get here ? '
he asked of the attendants he had with him .
No one could answer him , but as they were about to pass out of the forest a little boy went by , and the king stopped and inquired if there was anyone living in the neighbourhood whom he might question .
` Seven girls live in a hut down there , ' replied the boy , pointing with his finger to where the sun was setting .
` Then go and bring them here , and I will wait , ' said the king , and the boy ran off and told the sisters that a great chief , with strings of jewels round his neck , had sent for them .
Pleased and excited the six elder sisters at once followed the boy , but the youngest , who was busy , and who did not care about strangers , stayed behind , to finish the work she was doing .
The king welcomed the girls eagerly , and asked them all manner of questions about the tree , but as they had never even heard of its existence , they could tell him nothing .
` And if we , who live close by the forest , do not know , you may be sure no one does , ' added the eldest , who was rather cross at finding this was all that the king wanted of them .
` But the boy told me there were seven of you , and there are only six here , ' said the king .
` Oh , the youngest is at home , but she is always half asleep , and is of no use except to cut wood for the fire , ' replied they in a breath .
` That may be , but perhaps she dreams , ' answered the king .
` Anyway , I will speak to her also . '
Then he signed to one of his attendants , who followed the path that the boy had taken to the hut .
Soon the man returned , with the girl walking behind him .
And as soon as she reached the tree it bowed itself to the earth before her , and she stretched out her hand and picked some of its leaves and flowers and gave them to the king .
` The maiden who can work such wonders is fitted to be the wife of the greatest chief , ' he said , and so he married her , and took her with him across the sea to his own home , where they lived happily for ever after .
From ` Folk Lore , ' by A. F. Mackenzie .
The Sea King 's Gift There was once a fisherman who was called Salmon , and his Christian name was Matte .
He lived by the shore of the big sea ; where else could he live ?
He had a wife called Maie ; could you find a better name for her ?
In winter they dwelt in a little cottage by the shore , but in spring they flitted to a red rock out in the sea and stayed there the whole summer until it was autumn .
The cottage on the rock was even smaller than the other ; it had a wooden bolt instead of an iron lock to the door , a stone hearth , a flagstaff , and a weather-cock on the roof .
The rock was called Ahtola , and was not larger than the market-place of a town .
Between the crevices there grew a little rowan tree and four alder bushes .
Heaven only knows how they ever came there ; perhaps they were brought by the winter storms .
Besides that , there flourished some tufts of velvety grass , some scattered reeds , two plants of the yellow herb called tansy , four of a red flower , and a pretty white one ; but the treasures of the rock consisted of three roots of garlic , which Maie had put in a cleft .
Rock walls sheltered them on the north side , and the sun shone on them on the south .
This does not seem much , but it sufficed Maie for a herb plot .
All good things go in threes , so Matte and his wife fished for salmon in spring , for herring in summer , and for cod in winter .
When on Saturdays the weather was fine and the wind favourable , they sailed to the nearest town , sold their fish , and went to church on Sunday .
But it often happened that for weeks at a time they were quite alone on the rock Ahtola , and had nothing to look at except their little yellow-brown dog , which bore the grand name of Prince , their grass tufts , their bushes and blooms , the sea bays and fish , a stormy sky and the blue , white-crested waves .
For the rock lay far away from the land , and there were no green islets or human habitations for miles round , only here and there appeared a rock of the same red stone as Ahtola , besprinkled day and night with the ocean spray .
Matte and Maie were industrious , hard-working folk , happy and contented in their poor hut , and they thought themselves rich when they were able to salt as many casks of fish as they required for winter and yet have some left over with which to buy tobacco for the old man , and a pound or two of coffee for his wife , with plenty of burned corn and chicory in it to give it a flavour .
Besides that , they had bread , butter , fish , a beer cask , and a buttermilk jar ; what more did they require ?
All would have gone well had not Maie been possessed with a secret longing which never let her rest ; and this was , how she could manage to become the owner of a cow .
` What would you do with a cow ? '
asked Matte .
` She could not swim so far , and our boat is not large enough to bring her over here ; and even if we had her , we have nothing to feed her on . '
` We have four alder bushes and sixteen tufts of grass , ' rejoined Maie .
` Yes , of course , ' laughed Matte , ` and we have also three plants of garlic .
Garlic would be fine feeding for her . '
` Every cow likes salt herring , ' rejoined his wife .
` Even Prince is fond of fish . '
` That may be , ' said her husband .
` Methinks she would soon be a dear cow if we had to feed her on salt herring .
All very well for Prince , who fights with the gulls over the last morsel .
Put the cow out of your head , mother , we are very well off as we are . '
Maie sighed .
She knew well that her husband was right , but she could not give up the idea of a cow .
The buttermilk no longer tasted as good as usual in the coffee ; she thought of sweet cream and fresh butter , and of how there was nothing in the world to be compared with them .
One day as Matte and his wife were cleaning herring on the shore they heard Prince barking , and soon there appeared a gaily painted boat with three young men in it , steering towards the rock .
They were students , on a boating excursion , and wanted to get something to eat .
` Bring us a junket , good mother , ' cried they to Maie .
` Ah !
if only I had such a thing ! '
sighed Maie . '
A can of fresh milk , then , ' said the students ; ` but it must not be skim . '
` Yes , if only I had it ! '
sighed the old woman , still more deeply .
` What !
have n't you got a cow ? '
Maie was silent .
This question so struck her to the heart that she could not reply .
` We have no cow , ' Matte answered ; ` but we have good smoked herring , and can cook them in a couple of hours . '
` All right , then , that will do , ' said the students , as they flung themselves down on the rock , while fifty silvery-white herring were turning on the spit in front of the fire .
` What 's the name of this little stone in the middle of the ocean ? '
asked one of them .
` Ahtola , ' answered the old man .
` Well , you should want for nothing when you live in the Sea King 's dominion . '
Matte did not understand .
He had never read Kalevala and knew nothing of the sea gods of old , but the students proceeded to explain to him .
-LSB- FN # 2 : Kalevala is a collection of old Finnish songs about gods and heroes . -RSB-
` Ahti , ' said they , ` is a mighty king who lives in his dominion of Ahtola , and has a rock at the bottom of the sea , and possesses besides a treasury of good things .
He rules over all fish and animals of the deep ; he has the finest cows and the swiftest horses that ever chewed grass at the bottom of the ocean .
He who stands well with Ahti is soon a rich man , but one must beware in dealing with him , for he is very changeful and touchy .
Even a little stone thrown into the water might offend him , and then as he takes back his gift , he stirs up the sea into a storm and drags the sailors down into the depths .
Ahti owns also the fairest maidens , who bear the train of his queen Wellamos , and at the sound of music they comb their long , flowing locks , which glisten in the water . '
` Oh ! '
cried Matte , ` have your worships really seen all that ? '
` We have as good as seen it , ' said the students .
` It is all printed in a book , and everything printed is true . '
` I 'm not so sure of that , ' said Matte , as he shook his head .
But the herring were now ready , and the students ate enough for six , and gave Prince some cold meat which they happened to have in the boat .
Prince sat on his hind legs with delight and mewed like a pussy cat .
When all was finished , the students handed Matte a shining silver coin , and allowed him to fill his pipe with a special kind of tobacco .
They then thanked him for his kind hospitality and went on their journey , much regretted by Prince , who sat with a woeful expression and whined on the shore as long as he could see a flip of the boat 's white sail in the distance .
Maie had never uttered a word , but thought the more .
She had good ears , and had laid to heart the story about Ahti .
` How delightful , ' thought she to herself , ` to possess a fairy cow !
How delicious every morning and evening to draw milk from it , and yet have no trouble about the feeding , and to keep a shelf near the window for dishes of milk and junkets !
But this will never be my luck . '
` What are you thinking of ? '
asked Matte .
` Nothing , ' said his wife ; but all the time she was pondering over some magic rhymes she had heard in her childhood from an old lame man , which were supposed to bring luck in fishing .
` What if I were to try ? '
thought she .
Now this was Saturday , and on Saturday evenings Matte never set the herring-net , for he did not fish on Sunday .
Towards evening , however , his wife said : ` Let us set the herring-net just this once . '
` No , ' said her husband , ` it is a Saturday night . '
` Last night was so stormy , and we caught so little , ' urged his wife ; ` to-night the sea is like a mirror , and with the wind in this direction the herring are drawing towards land . '
` But there are streaks in the north-western sky , and Prince was eating grass this evening , ' said the old man .
` Surely he has not eaten my garlic , ' exclaimed the old woman .
` No ; but there will be rough weather by to-morrow at sunset , ' rejoined Matte .
` Listen to me , ' said his wife , ` we will set only one net close to the shore , and then we shall be able to finish up our half-filled cask , which will spoil if it stands open so long . '
The old man allowed himself to be talked over , and so they rowed out with the net .
When they reached the deepest part of the water , she began to hum the words of the magic rhyme , altering the words to suit the longing of her heart : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , Finest treasures have I heard , And glittering fish belong to thee .
The richest pearls beyond compare Are stored up in thy realm below , And Ocean 's cows so sleek and fair Feed on the grass in thy green meadow .
King of the waters , far and near , I ask not of thy golden store , I wish not jewels of pearl to wear , Nor silver either , ask I for , But one is odd and even is two , So give me a cow , sea-king so bold , And in return I 'll give to you A slice of the moon , and the sun 's gold .
` What 's that you 're humming ? '
asked the old man .
` Oh , only the words of an old rhyme that keeps running in my head , ' answered the old woman ; and she raised her voice and went on : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , A thousand cows are in thy herd , I pray thee give one onto me .
` That 's a stupid sort of song , ' said Matte .
` What else should one beg of the sea-king but fish ?
But such songs are not for Sunday . '
His wife pretended not to hear him , and sang and sang the same tune all the time they were on the water .
Matte heard nothing more as he sat and rowed the heavy boat , while thinking of his cracked pipe and the fine tobacco .
Then they returned to the island , and soon after went to bed .
But neither Matte nor Maie could sleep a wink ; the one thought of how he had profaned Sunday , and the other of Ahti 's cow .
About midnight the fisherman sat up , and said to his wife : ` Dost thou hear anything ? '
` No , ' said she . '
I think the twirling of the weathercock on the roof bodes ill , ' said he ; ` we shall have a storm . '
` Oh , it is nothing but your fancy , ' said his wife .
Matte lay down , but soon rose again .
` The weathercock is squeaking now , ' said he .
` Just fancy !
Go to sleep , ' said his wife ; and the old man tried to .
For the third time he jumped out of bed .
` Ho !
how the weather-cock is roaring at the pitch of its voice , as if it had a fire inside it !
We are going to have a tempest , and must bring in the net . '
Both rose .
The summer night was as dark as if it had been October , the weather-cock creaked , and the storm was raging in every direction .
As they went out the sea lay around them as white as now , and the spray was dashing right over the fisher-hut .
In all his life Matte had never remembered such a night .
To launch the boat and put to sea to rescue the net was a thing not to be thought of .
The fisherman and his wife stood aghast on the doorstep , holding on fast by the doorpost , while the foam splashed over their faces .
` Did I not tell thee that there is no luck in Sunday fishing ? '
said Matte sulkily ; and his wife was so frightened that she never even once thought of Ahti 's cows .
As there was nothing to be done , they went in .
Their eyes were heavy for lack of slumber , and they slept as soundly as if there had not been such a thing as an angry sea roaring furiously around their lonely dwelling .
When they awoke , the sun was high in the heavens , the tempest had cased , and only the swell of the sea rose in silvery heavings against the red rock .
` What can that be ? '
said the old woman , as she peeped out of the door .
` It looks like a big seal , ' said Matte .
` As sure as I live , it 's a cow ! '
exclaimed Maie .
And certainly it was a cow , a fine red cow , fat and flourishing , and looking as if it had been fed all its days on spinach .
It wandered peacefully up and down the shore , and never so much as even looked at the poor little tufts of grass , as if it despised such fare .
Matte could not believe his eyes .
But a cow she seemed , and a cow she was found to be ; and when the old woman began to milk her , every pitcher and pan , even to the baler , was soon filled with the most delicious milk .
The old man troubled his head in vain as to how she came there , and sallied forth to seek for his lost net .
He had not proceeded far when he found it cast up on the shore , and so full of fish that not a mesh was visible .
` It is all very fine to possess a cow , ' said Matte , as he cleaned the fish ; ` but what are we going to feed her on ? '
` We shall find some means , ' said his wife ; and the cow found the means herself .
She went out and cropped the seaweed which grew in great abundance near the shore , and always kept in good condition .
Every one Prince alone excepted , thought she was a clever beast ; but Prince barked at her , for he had now got a rival .
From that day the red rock overflowed with milk and junkets , and every net was filled with fish .
Matte and Maie grew fat on this fine living , and daily became richer .
She churned quantities of butter , and he hired two men to help him in his fishing .
The sea lay before him like a big fish tank , out of which he hauled as many as he required ; and the cow continued to fend for herself .
In autumn , when Matte and Maie went ashore , the cow went to sea , and in spring , when they returned to the rock , there she stood awaiting them .
` We shall require a better house , ' said Maie the following summer ; ` the old one is too small for ourselves and the men . '
` Yes , ' said Matte .
So he built a large cottage , with a real lock to the door , and a store-house for fish as well ; and he and his men caught such quantities of fish that they sent tons of salmon , herring , and cod to Russian and Sweden . '
I am quite overworked with so many folk , ' said Maie ; ' a girl to help me would not come amiss . '
` Get one , then , ' said her husband ; and so they hired a girl .
Then Maie said : ` We have too little milk for all these folk .
Now that I have a servant , with the same amount of trouble she could look after three cows . '
` All right , then , ' said her husband , somewhat provoked , ` you can sing a song to the fairies . '
This annoyed Maie , but nevertheless she rowed out to sea on Sunday night and sang as before : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , A thousand cows are in thy herd , I pray thee give three unto me .
The following morning , instead of one , three cows stood on the island , and they all ate seaweed and fended for themselves like the first one .
` Art thou satisfied now ? '
said Matte to his wife . '
I should be quite satisfied , ' said his wife , ` if only I had two servants to help , and if I had some finer clothes .
Do n't you know that I am addressed as Madam ? '
` Well , well , ' said her husband .
So Maie got several servants and clothes fit for a great lady .
` Everything would now be perfect if only we had a little better dwelling for summer .
You might build us a two-storey house , and fetch soil to make a garden .
Then you might make a little arbour up there to let us have a sea-view ; and we might have a fiddler to fiddle to us of an evening , and a little steamer to take us to church in stormy weather . '
` Anything more ? '
asked Matte ; but he did everything that his wife wished .
The rock Ahtola became so grand and Maie so grand that all the sea-urchins and herring were lost in wonderment .
Even Prince was fed on beefsteaks and cream scones till at last he was as round as a butter jar .
` Are you satisfied now ? '
asked Matte . '
I should be quite satisfied , ' said Maie , ` if only I had thirty cows .
At least that number is required for such a household . '
` Go to the fairies , ' said Matte .
His wife set out in the new steamer and sang to the sea-king .
Next morning thirty cows stood on the shore , all finding food for themselves .
` Know ` st thou , good man , that we are far too cramped on this wretched rock , and where am I to find room for so many cows ? '
` There is nothing to be done but to pump out the sea . '
` Rubbish ! '
said his wife .
` Who can pump out the sea ? '
` Try with thy new steamer , there is a pump in it . '
Maie knew well that her husband was only making fun of her , but still her mind was set upon the same subject . '
I never could pump the sea out , ' thought she , ` but perhaps I might fill it up , if I were to make a big dam .
I might heap up sand and stones , and make our island as big again . '
Maie loaded her boat with stones and went out to sea .
The fiddler was with her , and fiddled so finely that Ahti and Wellamos and all the sea 's daughters rose to the surface of the water to listen to the music .
` What is that shining so brightly in the waves ? '
asked Maie .
` That is sea foam glinting in the sunshine , ' answered the fiddler .
` Throw out the stones , ' said Maie .
The people in the boat began to throw out the stones , splash , splash , right and left , into the foam .
One stone hit the nose of Wellamos 's chief lady-in-waiting , another scratched the sea queen herself on the cheek , a third plumped close to Ahti 's head and tore off half of the sea-king 's beard ; then there was a commotion in the sea , the waves bubbled and bubbled like boiling water in a pot .
` Whence comes this gust of wind ? '
said Maie ; and as she spoke the sea opened and swallowed up the steamer .
Maie sank to the bottom like a stone , but , stretching out her arms and legs , she rose to the surface , where she found the fiddler 's fiddle , and used it as a float .
At the same moment she saw close beside her the terrible head of Ahti , and he had only half a beard ! '
` Why did you throw stones at me ? '
roared the sea-king .
` Oh , your majesty , it was a mistake !
Put some bear 's grease on your beard and that will soon make it grow again . '
` Dame , did I not give you all you asked for -- nay , even more ? '
` Truly , truly , your majesty .
Many thanks for the cows . '
` Well , where is the gold from the sun and the silver from the moon that you promised me ? '
` Ah , your majesty , they have been scattered day and night upon the sea , except when the sky was overcast , ' slyly answered Maie .
` I 'll teach you ! '
roared the sea-king ; and with that he gave the fiddle such a ` puff ' that it sent the old woman up like a sky-rocket on to her island .
There Prince lay , as famished as ever , gnawing the carcase of a crow .
There sat Matte in his ragged grey jacket , quite alone , on the steps of the old hut , mending a net .
` Heavens , mother , ' said he , ` where are you coming from at such a whirlwind pace , and what makes you in such a dripping condition ? '
Maie looked around her amazed , and said , ` Where is our two-storey house ? '
` What house ? '
asked her husband .
` Our big house , and the flower garden , and the men and the maids , and the thirty beautiful cows , and the steamer , and everything else ? '
` You are talking nonsense , mother , ' said he .
` The students have quite turned your head , for you sang silly songs last evening while we were rowing , and then you could not sleep till early morning .
We had stormy weather during the night , and when it was past I did not wish to waken you , so rowed out alone to rescue the net . '
` But I 've seen Ahti , ' rejoined Maie .
` You 've been lying in bed , dreaming foolish fancies , mother , and then in your sleep you walked into the water . '
` But there is the fiddle , ' said Maie . '
A fine fiddle !
It is only an old stick .
No , no , old woman , another time we will be more careful .
Good luck never attends fishing on a Sunday . '
From Z. Topelius .
The Raspberry Worm ` Phew ! '
cried Lisa .
` Ugh ! '
cried Aina .
` What now ? '
cried the big sister . '
A worm ! '
cried Lisa .
` On the raspberry ! '
cried Aina .
` Kill it ! '
cried Otto .
` What a fuss over a poor little worm ! '
said the big sister scornfully .
` Yes , when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully , ' said Lisa .
` It crept out from that very large one , ' put in Aina .
` And supposing someone had eaten the raspberry , ' said Lisa .
` Then they would have eaten the worm , too , ' said Aina .
` Well , what harm ? '
said Otto .
` Eat a worm ! '
cried Lisa .
` And kill him with one bite ! '
murmured Aina .
` Just think of it ! '
said Otto laughing .
` Now it is crawling on the table , ' cried Aina again .
` Blow it away ! '
said the big sister .
` Tramp on it ! '
laughed Otto .
But Lisa took a raspberry leaf , swept the worm carefully on to the leaf and carried it out into the yard .
Then Aina noticed that a sparrow sitting on the fence was just ready to pounce on the poor little worm , so she took up the leaf , carried it out into the wood and hid it under a raspberry bush where the greedy sparrow could not find it .
Yes , and what more is there to tell about a raspberry worm ?
Who would give three straws for such a miserable little thing ?
Yes , but who would not like to live in such a pretty home as it lives in ; in such a fresh fragrant dark-red cottage , far away in the quiet wood among flowers and green leaves !
Now it was just dinner time , so they all had a dinner of raspberries and cream .
` Be careful with the sugar , Otto , ' said the big sister ; but Otto 's plate was like a snowdrift in winter , with just a little red under the snow .
Soon after dinner the big sister said : ` Now we have eaten up the raspberries and we have none left to make preserve for the winter ; it would be fine if we could get two baskets full of berries , then we could clean them this evening , and to-morrow we could cook them in the big preserving pan , and then we should have raspberry jam to eat on our bread ! '
` Come , let us go to the wood and pick , ' said Lisa .
` Yes , let us , ' said Aina .
` You take the yellow basket and I will take the green one . '
` Do n't get lost , and come back safely in the evening , ' said the big sister .
` Greetings to the raspberry worm , ' said Otto , mockingly .
` Next time I meet him I shall do him the honour of eating him up . '
So Aina and Lisa went off to the wood .
Ah !
how delightful it was there , how beautiful !
It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over the fallen trees , and getting caught in the branches , and waging war with the juniper bushes and the midges , but what did that matter ?
The girls climbed well in their short dresses , and soon they were deep in the wood .
There were plenty of bilberries and elder berries , but no raspberries .
They wandered on and on , and at last they came ... No , it could not be true !
... they came to a large raspberry wood .
The wood had been on fire once , and now raspberry bushes had grown up , and there were raspberry bushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see .
Every bush was weighted to the ground with the largest , dark red , ripe raspberries , such a wealth of berries as two little berry pickers had never found before !
Lisa picked , Aina picked .
Lisa ate , Aina ate , and in a little while their baskets were full .
` Now we shall go home , ' said Aina .
` No , let us gather a few more , ' said Lisa .
So they put the baskets down on the ground and began to fill their pinafores , and it was not long before their pinafores were full , too .
` Now we shall go home , ' said Lina .
` Yes , now we shall go home , ' said Aina .
Both girls took a basket in one hand and held up her apron in the other and then turned to go home .
But that was easier said than done .
They had never been so far in the great wood before , they could not find any road nor path , and soon the girls noticed that they had lost their way .
The worst of it was that the shadows of the tress were becoming so long in the evening sunlight , the birds were beginning to fly home , and the day was closing in .
At last the sun went down behind the pine tops , and it was cool and dusky in the great wood .
The girls became anxious but went steadily on , expecting that the wood would soon end , and that they would see the smoke from the chimneys of their home .
After they had wandered on for a long time it began to grow dark .
At last they reached a great plain overgrown with bushes , and when they looked around them , they saw , as much as they could in the darkness , that they were among the same beautiful raspberry bushes from which they had picked their baskets and their aprons full .
Then they were so tired that they sat down on a stone and began to cry . '
I am so hungry , ' said Lisa .
` Yes , ' said Aina , ` if we had only two good meat sandwiches now . '
As she said that , she felt something in her hand , and when she looked down , she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken , and at the same time Lisa said : ` How very queer !
I have a sandwich in my hand . '
` And I , too , ' said Aina .
` Will you dare to eat it ? '
` Of course I will , ' said Lisa .
` Ah , if we only had a good glass of milk now ! '
Just as she said that she felt a large glass of milk between her fingers , and at the same time Aina cried out , ` Lisa !
Lisa !
I have a glass of milk in my hand !
Is n't it queer ? '
The girls , however , were very hungry , so they ate and drank with a good appetite .
When they had finished Aina yawned , stretched out her arms and said : ` Oh , if only we had a nice soft bed to sleep on now ! '
Scarcely had she spoken before she felt a nice soft bed by her side , and there beside Lisa was one too .
This seemed to the girls more and more wonderful , but tired and sleepy as they were , they thought no more about it , but crept into the little beds , drew the coverlets over their heads and were soon asleep .
When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens , the wood was beautiful in the summer morning , and the birds were flying about in the branches and the tree tops .
At first the girls were filled with wonder when they saw that they had slept in the wood among the raspberry bushes .
They looked at each other , they looked at their beds , which were of the finest flax covered over with leaves and moss .
At last Lisa said : ` Are you awake , Aina ? '
` Yes , ' said Aina .
` But I am still dreaming , ' said Lisa .
` No , ' said Aina , ` but there is certainly some good fairy living among these raspberry bushes .
Ah , if we had only a hot cup of coffee now , and a nice piece of white bread to dip into it ! '
Scarcely had she finished speaking when she saw beside her a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot , two cups of rare porcelain , a sugar basin of fine crystal , silver sugar tongs , and some good fresh white bread .
The girls poured out the beautiful coffee , put in the cream and sugar , and tasted it ; never in their lives had they drunk such beautiful coffee .
` Now I should like to know very much who has given us all this , ' said Lisa gratefully . '
I have , my little girls , ' said a voice just then from the bushes .
The children looked round wonderingly , and saw a little kind-looking old man , in a white coat and a red cap , limping out from among the bushes , for he was lame in his left foot ; neither Lisa nor Aina could utter a word , they were so filled with surprise .
` Do n't be afraid , little girls , ' he said smiling kindly at them ; he could not laugh properly because his mouth was crooked .
` Welcome to my kingdom !
Have you slept well and eaten well and drunk well ? '
he asked .
` Yes , indeed we have , ' said both the girls , ` but tell us ... ' and they wanted to ask who the old man was , but were afraid to . '
I will tell you who I am , ' said the old man ; ' I am the raspberry king , who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes , and I have lived here for more than a thousand years .
But the great spirit who rules over the woods , and the sea , and the sky , did not want me to become proud of my royal power and my long life .
Therefore he decreed that one day in every hundred years I should change into a little raspberry worm , and live in that weak and helpless form from sunrise to sunset .
During that time my life is dependent on the little worm 's life , so that a bird can eat me , a child can pick me with the berries and trample under foot my thousand years of life .
Now yesterday was just my transformation day , and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life .
Until sunset I lay helpless in the grass , and when I was swept away from your table I twisted one of my feet , and my mouth became crooked with terror ; but when evening came and I could take my own form again , I looked for you to thank you and reward you .
Then I found you both here in my kingdom , and tried to meet you both as well as I could without frightening you .
Now I will send a bird from my wood to show you the way home .
Good-bye , little children , thank you for your kind hearts ; the raspberry king can show that he is not ungrateful . '
The children shook hands with the old man and thanked him , feeling very glad that they had saved the little raspberry worm .
They were just going when the old man turned round , smiled mischievously with his crooked mouth , and said : ` Greetings to Otto from me , and tell him when I meet him again I shall do him the honour of eating him up . '
` Oh , please do n't do that , ' cried both the girls , very frightened .
` Well , for your sake I will forgive him , ' said the old man , ' I am not revengeful .
Greetings to Otto and tell him that he may expect a gift from me , too .
Good-bye . '
The two girls , light of heart , now took their berries and ran off through the wood after the bird ; and soon it began to get lighter in the wood and they wondered how they could have lost their way yesterday , it seemed so easy and plain now .
One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home .
Everyone had been looking for them , and the big sister had not been able to sleep , for she thought the wolves had eaten them up .
Otto met them ; he had a basket in his hand and said : ` Look , here is something that an old man has just left for you . '
When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones , dark red , and made in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription : ` To Lisa and Aina ' ; beside them there was a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm : on it was inscribed ` Otto , never destroy the helpless ! '
Otto felt rather ashamed : he quite understood what it meant , but he thought that the old man 's revenge was a noble one .
The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister , for when she went in to set the table for dinner , she found eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries , and no one knew how they had come there , but everyone guessed .
And so there was such a jam-making as had never been seen before , and if you like to go and help in it , you might perhaps get a little , for they must surely be making jam still to this very day .
From Z. Topelius .
The Stones of Plouhinec Perhaps some of you may have read a book called ` Kenneth ; or the Rear-Guard of the Grand Army ' of Napoleon .
If so , you will remember how the two Scotch children found in Russia were taken care of by the French soldiers and prevented as far as possible from suffering from the horrors of the terrible Retreat .
One of the soldiers , a Breton , often tried to make them forget how cold and hungry they were by telling them tales of his native country , Brittany , which is full of wonderful things .
The best and warmest place round the camp fire was always given to the children , but even so the bitter frost would cause them to shiver .
It was then that the Breton would begin : ` Plouhinec is a small town near Hennebonne by the sea , ' and would continue until Kenneth or Effie would interrupt him with an eager question .
Then he forgot how his mother had told him the tale , and was obliged to begin all over again , so the story lasted a long while , and by the time it was ended the children were ready to be rolled up in what ever coverings could be found , and go to sleep .
It is this story that I am going to tell to you .
Plouhinec is a small town near Hennebonne by the sea .
Around it stretches a desolate moor , where no corn can be grown , and the grass is so coarse that no beast grows fat on it .
Here and there are scattered groves of fir trees , and small pebbles are so thick on the ground that you might almost take it for a beach .
On the further side , the fairies , or korigans , as the people called them , had set up long long ago two rows of huge stones ; indeed , so tall and heavy were they , that it seemed as if all the fairies in the world could not have placed them upright .
Not far off them this great stone avenue , and on the banks of the little river Intel , there lived a man named Marzinne and his sister Rozennik .
They always had enough black bread to eat , and wooden shoes or sabots to wear , and a pig to fatten , so the neighbours thought them quite rich ; and what was still better , they thought themselves rich also .
Rozennik was a pretty girl , who knew how to make the best of everything , and she could , if she wished , have chosen a husband from the young men of Plouhinec , but she cared for none of them except Bernez , whom she had played with all her life , and Bernez , though he worked hard , was so very very poor that Marzinne told him roughly he must look elsewhere for a wife .
But whatever Marzinne might say Rozennik smiled and nodded to him as before , and would often turn her head as she passed , and sing snatches of old songs over her shoulder .
Christmas Eve had come , and all the men who worked under Marzinne or on the farms round about were gathered in the large kitchen to eat the soup flavoured with honey followed by rich puddings , to which they were always invited on this particular night .
In the middle of the table was a large wooden bowl , with wooden spoons placed in a circle round it , so that each might dip in his turn .
The benches were filled , and Marzinne was about to give the signal , when the door was suddenly thrown open , and an old man came in , wishing the guests a good appetite for their supper .
There was a pause , and some of the faces looked a little frightened ; for the new-comer was well known to them as a beggar , who was also said to be a wizard who cast spells over the cattle , and caused the corn to grow black , and old people to die , of what , nobody knew .
Still , it was Christmas Eve , and besides it was as well not to offend him , so the farmer invited him in , and gave him a seat at the table and a wooden spoon like the rest .
There was not much talk after the beggar 's entrance , and everyone was glad when the meal came to an end , and the beggar asked if he might sleep in the stable , as he should die of cold if he were left outside .
Rather unwillingly Marzinne gave him leave , and bade Bernez take the key and unlock the door .
There was certainly plenty of room for a dozen beggars , for the only occupants of the stable were an old donkey and a thin ox ; and as the night was bitter , the wizard lay down between them for warmth , with a sack of reeds for a pillow .
He had walked far that day , and even wizards get tired sometimes , so in spite of the hard floor he was just dropping off to sleep , when midnight struck from the church tower of Plouhinec .
At this sound the donkey raised her head and shook her ears , and turned towards the ox .
` Well , my dear cousin , ' said she , ` and how have you fared since last Christmas Eve , when we had a conversation together ? '
Instead of answering at once , the ox eyed the beggar with a long look of disgust .
` What is the use of talking , ' he replied roughly , ` when a good-for-nothing creature like that can hear all we say ? '
` Oh , you must n't lose time in grumbling , ' rejoined the donkey gaily , ` and do n't you see that the wizard is asleep ? '
` His wicked pranks do not make him rich , certainly , ' said the ox , ` and he is n't even clever enough to have found out what a piece of luck might befall him a week hence . '
` What piece of luck ? '
asked the donkey .
` Why , do n't you know , ' inquired the ox , ` that once very hundred years the stones on Plouhinec heath go down to drink at the river , and that while they are away the treasures underneath them are uncovered ? '
` Ah , I remember now , ' replied the donkey , ` but the stones return so quickly to their places , that you certainly would be crushed to death unless you have in your hands a bunch of crowsfoot and of five-leaved trefoil . '
` Yes , but that is not enough , ' said the ox ; ` even supposing you get safely by , the treasure you have brought with you will crumble into dust if you do not give in exchange a baptised soul .
It is needful that a Christian should die before you can enjoy the wealth of Plouhinec . '
The donkey was about to ask some further questions , when she suddenly found herself unable to speak : the time allowed them for conversation was over .
` Ah , my dear creatures , ' thought the beggar , who had of course heard everything , ` you are going to make me richer than the richest men of Vannes or Lorient .
But I have no time to lose ; to-morrow I must begin to hunt for the precious plants . '
He did not dare to seek too near Plouhinec , lest somebody who knew the story might guess what he was doing , so he went away further towards the south , where the air was softer and the plants are always green .
From the instant it was light , till the last rays had faded out of the sky , he searched every inch of ground where the magic plants might grow ; he scarcely gave himself a minute to eat and drink , but at length he found the crowsfoot in a little hollow !
Well , that was certainly a great deal , but after all , the crowsfoot was of no use without the trefoil , and there was so little time left .
He had almost give up hope , when on the very last day before it was necessary that he should start of Plouhinec , he came upon a little clump of trefoil , half hidden under a rock .
Hardly able to breathe from excitement , he sat down and hunted eagerly through the plant which he had torn up .
Leaf after leaf he threw aside in disgust , and he had nearly reached the end when he gave a cry of joy -- the five-leaved trefoil was in his hand .
The beggar scrambled to his feet , and without a pause walked quickly down the road that led northwards .
The moon was bright , and for some hours he kept steadily on , not knowing how many miles he had gone , nor even feeling tired .
By and bye the sun rose , and the world began to stir , and stopping at a farmhouse door , he asked for a cup of milk and slice of bread and permission to rest for a while in the porch .
Then he continued his journey , and so , towards sunset on New Year 's Eve , he came back to Plouhinec .
As he was passing the long line of stones , he saw Bernez working with a chisel on the tallest of them all .
` What are you doing there ? '
called the wizard , ` do you mean to hollow out for yourself a bed in that huge column ? '
` No , ' replied Bernez quietly , ` but as I happened to have no work to do to-day , I thought I would just carve a cross on this stone .
The holy sign can never come amiss . ' '
I believe you think it will help you to win Rozennik , ' laughed the old man .
Bernez ceased his task for a moment to look at him .
` Ah , so you know about that , ' replied he ; ` unluckily Marzinne wants a brother-in-law who has more pounds than I have pence . '
` And suppose I were to give you more pounds than Marzinne ever dreamed of ? '
whispered the sorcerer glancing round to make sure that no one overheard him .
` You ? '
` Yes , I. ' ` And what am I to do to gain the money , ' inquired Bernez , who knew quite well that the Breton peasant gives nothing for nothing .
` What I want of you only needs a little courage , ' answered the old man .
` If that is all , tell me what I have got to do , and I will do it , ' cried Bernez , letting fall his chisel .
` If I have to risk thirty deaths , I am ready . '
When the beggar knew that Bernez would give him no trouble , he told him how , during that very night , the treasures under the stones would be uncovered , and how in a very few minutes they could take enough to make them both rich for life .
But he kept silence as to the fate that awaited the man who was without the crowsfoot and the trefoil , and Bernez thought that nothing but boldness and quickness were necessary .
So he said : ` Old man , I am grateful , indeed , for the chance you have given me , and there will always be a pint of my blood at your service .
Just let me finish carving this cross .
It is nearly done , and I will join you in the fir wood at whatever hour you please . '
` You must be there without fail an hour before midnight , ' answered the wizard , and went on his way .
As the hour struck from the great church at Plouhinec , Bernez entered the wood .
He found the beggar already there with a bag in each hand , and a third slung round his neck .
` You are punctual , ' said the old man , ` but we need not start just yet .
You had better sit down and think what you will do when your pockets are filled with gold and silver and jewels . '
` Oh , it wo n't take me long to plan out that , ' returned Bernez with a laugh . '
I shall give Rozennik everything she can desire , dresses of all sorts , from cotton to silk , and good things of all kinds to eat , from white bread to oranges . '
` The silver you find will pay for all that , and what about the gold ? '
` With the gold I shall make rich Rozennik 's relations and every friend of hers in the parish , ' replied he .
` So much for the gold ; and the jewels ? '
` Then , ' cried Bernez , ' I will divide the jewels amongst everybody in the world , so that they may be wealthy and happy ; and I will tell them that it is Rozennik who would have it so . '
` Hush !
it is close on midnight -- we must go , ' whispered the wizard , and together they crept to the edge of the wood .
With the first stroke of twelve a great noise arose over the silent heath , and the earth seemed to rock under the feet of the two watchers .
The next moment by the light of the moon they beheld the huge stones near them leave their places and go down the slope leading to the river , knocking against each other in their haste .
Passing the spot where stood Bernez and the beggar , they were lost in the darkness .
It seemed as if a procession of giants had gone by .
` Quick , ' said the wizard , in a low voice , and he rushed towards the empty holes , which even in the night shone brightly from the treasures within them .
Flinging himself on his knees , the old man began filling the wallets he had brought , listening intently all the time for the return of the stones up the hill , while Bernez more slowly put handfuls of all he could see into his pockets .
The sorcerer had just closed his third wallet , and was beginning to wonder if he could carry away any more treasures when a low murmur as of a distant storm broke upon his ears .
The stones had finished drinking , and were hastening back to their places .
On they came , bent a little forward , the tallest of them all at their head , breaking everything that stood in their way .
At the sight Bernez stood transfixed with horror , and said , ` We are lost !
They will crush us to death . '
` Not me ! '
answered the sorcerer , holding up the crowsfoot and the five-leaved trefoil , ` for these will preserve me .
But in order to keep my riches , I was obliged to sacrifice a Christian to the stones , and an evil fate threw you in my way . '
And as he spoke he stretched out the magic herbs to the stones , which were advancing rapidly .
As if acknowledging a power greater than theirs , the monstrous things instantly parted to the right and left of the wizard , but closed their ranks again as they approached Bernez .
The young man did not try to escape , he knew it was useless , and sank on his knees and closed his eyes .
But suddenly the tall stone that was leading stopped straight in front of Bernez , so that no other could get past .
It was the stone on which Bernez had carved the cross , and it was now a baptized stone , and had power to save him .
So the stone remained before the young man till the rest had taken their places , and then , darting like a bird to its own hole , came upon the beggar , who , thinking himself quite safe , was staggering along under the weight of his treasures .
Seeing the stone approaching , he held out the magic herbs which he carried , but the baptized stone was no longer subject to the spells that bound the rest , and passed straight on its way , leaving the wizard crushed into powder in the heather .
Then Bernez went home , and showed his wealth to Marzinne , who this time did not refuse him as a brother-in-law , and he and Rozennik were married , and lived happy for ever after .
From ` Le Royer Breton , ' par Emile Souvestre .
The Castle of Kerglas Peronnik was a poor idiot who belonged to nobody , and he would have died of starvation if it had not been for the kindness of the village people , who gave him food whenever he chose to ask for it .
And as for a bed , when night came , and he grew sleepy , he looked about for a heap of straw , and making a hole in it , crept in , like a lizard .
Idiot though he was , he was never unhappy , but always thanked gratefully those who fed him , and sometimes would stop for a little and sing to them .
For he could imitate a lark so well , that no one knew which was Peronnik and which was the bird .
He had been wandering in a forest one day for several hours , and when evening approached , he suddenly felt very hungry .
Luckily , just at that place the trees grew thinner , and he could see a small farmhouse a little way off .
Peronnik went straight towards it , and found the farmer 's wife standing at the door holding in her hands the large bowl out of which her children had eaten their supper . '
I am hungry , will you give me something to eat ? '
asked the boy .
` If you can find anything here , you are welcome to it , ' answered she , and , indeed , there was not much left , as everybody 's spoon had dipped in .
But Peronnik ate what was there with a hearty appetite , and thought that he had never tasted better food .
` It is made of the finest flour and mixed with the richest milk and stirred by the best cook in all the countryside , ' and though he said it to himself , the woman heard him .
` Poor innocent , ' she murmured , ` he does not know what he is saying , but I will cut him a slice of that new wheaten loaf , ' and so she did , and Peronnik ate up every crumb , and declared that nobody less than the bishop 's baker could have baked it .
This flattered the farmer 's wife so much that she gave him some butter to spread on it , and Peronnik was still eating it on the doorstep when an armed knight rode up .
` Can you tell me the way to the castle of Kerglas ? '
asked he .
` To Kerglas ?
are you really going to Kerglas ? '
cried the woman , turning pale .
` Yes ; and in order to get there I have come from a country so far off that it has taken me three months ' hard riding to travel as far as this . '
` And why do you want to go to Kerglas ? '
said she . '
I am seeking the basin of gold and the lance of diamonds which are in the castle , ' he answered .
Then Peronnik looked up .
` The basin and the lance are very costly things , ' he said suddenly .
` More costly and precious than all the crowns in the world , ' replied the stranger , ` for not only will the basin furnish you with the best food that you can dream of , but if you drink of it , it will cure you of any illness however dangerous , and will even bring the dead back to life , if it touches their mouths .
As to the diamond lance , that will cut through any stone or metal . '
` And to whom do these wonders belong ? '
asked Peronnik in amazement .
` To a magician named Rogear who lives in the castle , ' answered the woman .
` Every day he passes along here , mounted on a black mare , with a colt thirteen months old trotting behind .
But no one dares to attack him , as he always carries his lance . '
` That is true , ' said the knight , ` but there is a spell laid upon him which forbids his using it within the castle of Kerglas .
The moment he enters , the basin and lance are put away in a dark cellar which no key but one can open .
And that is the place where I wish to fight the magician . '
` You will never overcome him , Sir Knight , ' replied the woman , shaking her head .
` More than a hundred gentlemen have ridden past this house bent on the same errand , and not one has ever come back . ' '
I know that , good woman , ' returned the knight , ` but then they did not have , like me , instructions from the hermit of Blavet . '
` And what did the hermit tell you ? '
asked Peronnik .
` He told me that I should have to pass through a wood full of all sorts of enchantments and voices , which would try to frighten me and make me lose my way .
Most of those who have gone before me have wandered they know not where , and perished from cold , hunger , or fatigue . '
` Well , suppose you get through safely ? '
said the idiot .
` If I do , ' continued the knight , ' I shall then meet a sort of fairy armed with a needle of fire which burns to ashes all it touches .
This dwarf stands guarding an apple-tree , from which I am bound to pluck an apple . '
` And next ? '
inquired Peronnik .
` Next I shall find the flower that laughs , protected by a lion whose mane is formed of vipers .
I must pluck that flower , and go on to the lake of the dragons and fight the black man who holds in his hand the iron ball which never misses its mark and returns of its own accord to its master .
After that , I enter the valley of pleasure , where some who conquered all the other obstacles have left their bones .
If I can win through this , I shall reach a river with only one ford , where a lady in black will be seated .
She will mount my horse behind me , and tell me what I am to do next . '
He paused , and the woman shook her head .
` You will never be able to do all that , ' said she , but he bade her remembered that these were only matters for men , and galloped away down the path she pointed out .
The farmer 's wife sighed and , giving Peronnik some more food , bade him good-night .
The idiot rose and was opening the gate which led into the forest when the farmer himself came up . '
I want a boy to tend my cattle , ' he said abruptly , ` as the one I had has run away .
Will you stay and do it ? '
and Peronnik , though he loved his liberty and hated work , recollected the good food he had eaten , and agreed to stop .
At sunrise he collected his herd carefully and led them to the rich pasture which lay along the borders of the forest , cutting himself a hazel wand with which to keep them in order .
His task was not quite so easy as it looked , for the cows had a way of straying into the wood , and by the time he had brought one back another was off .
He had gone some distance into the trees , after a naughty black cow which gave him more trouble than all the rest , when he heard the noise of horse 's feet , and peeping through the leaves he beheld the giant Rogear seated on his mare , with the colt trotting behind .
Round the giant 's neck hung the golden bowl suspended from a chain , and in his hand he grasped the diamond lance , which gleamed like fire .
But as soon as he was out of sight the idiot sought in vain for traces of the path he had taken .
This happened not only once but many times , till Peronnik grew so used to him that he never troubled to hide .
But on each occasion he saw him the desire to possess the bowl and the lance became stronger .
One evening the boy was sitting alone on the edge of the forest , when a man with a white beard stopped beside him .
` Do you want to know the way to Kerglas ? '
asked the idiot , and the man answered ' I know it well . '
` You have been there without being killed by the magician ? '
cried Peronnik .
` Oh !
he had nothing to fear from me , ' replied the white-bearded man , ' I am Rogear 's elder brother , the wizard Bryak .
When I wish to visit him I always pass this way , and as even I can not go through the enchanted wood without losing myself , I call the colt to guide me . '
Stooping down as he spoke he traced three circles on the ground and murmured some words very low , which Peronnik could not hear .
Then he added aloud : Colt , free to run and free to eat .
Colt , gallop fast until we meet , and instantly the colt appeared , frisking and jumping to the wizard , who threw a halter over his neck and leapt on his back .
Peronnik kept silence at the farm about this adventure , but he understood very well that if he was ever to get to Kerglas he must first catch the colt which knew the way .
Unhappily he had not heard the magic words uttered by the wizard , and he could not manage to draw the three circles , so if he was to summon the colt at all he must invent some other means of doing it .
All day long , while he was herding the cows , he thought and thought how he was to call the colt , for he felt sure that once on its back he could overcome the other dangers .
Meantime he must be ready in case a chance should come , and he made his preparations at night , when everyone was asleep .
Remembering what he had seen the wizard do , he patched up an old halter that was hanging in a corner of the stable , twisted a rope of hemp to catch the colt 's feet , and a net such as is used for snaring birds .
Next he sewed roughly together some bits of cloth to serve as a pocket , and this he filled with glue and lark 's feathers , a string of beads , a whistle of elder wood , and a slice of bread rubbed over with bacon fat .
Then he went out to the path down which Rogear , his mare , and the colt always rode , and crumbled the bread on one side of it .
Punctual to their hour all three appeared , eagerly watched by Peronnik , who lay hid in the bushes close by .
Suppose it was useless ; suppose the mare , and not the colt , ate the crumbs ?
Suppose -- but no !
the mare and her rider went safely by , vanishing round a corner , while the colt , trotting along with its head on the ground , smelt the bread , and began greedily to lick up the pieces .
Oh , how good it was !
Why had no one ever given it that before , and so absorbed was the little beast , sniffing about after a few more crumbs , that it never heard Peronnik creep up till it felt the halter on its neck and the rope round its feet , and -- in another moment -- some one on its back .
Going as fast as the hobbles would allow , the colt turned into one of the wildest parts of the forest , while its rider sat trembling at the strange sights he saw .
Sometimes the earth seemed to open in front of them and he was looking into a bottomless pit ; sometimes the trees burst into flames and he found himself in the midst of a fire ; often in the act of crossing a stream the water rose and threatened to sweep him away ; and again , at the foot of a mountain , great rocks would roll towards him , as if they would crush him and his colt beneath their weight .
To his dying day Peronnik never knew whether these things were real or if he only imagined them , but he pulled down his knitted cap so as to cover his eyes , and trusted the colt to carry him down the right road .
At last the forest was left behind , and they came out on a wide plain where the air blew fresh and strong .
The idiot ventured to peep out , and found to his relief that the enchantments seemed to have ended , though a thrill of horror shot through him as he noticed the skeletons of men scattered over the plain , beside the skeletons of their horses .
And what were those grey forms trotting away in the distance ?
Were they -- could they be -- wolves ?
But vast through the plain seemed , it did not take long to cross , and very soon the colt entered a sort of shady park in which was standing a single apple-tree , its branches bowed down to the ground with the weight of its fruit .
In front was the korigan -- the little fairy man -- holding in his hand the fiery sword , which reduced to ashes everything it touched .
At the sight of Peronnik he uttered a piercing scream , and raised his sword , but without appearing surprised the youth only lifted his cap , though he took care to remain at a little distance .
` Do not be alarmed , my prince , ' said Peronnik , ' I am just on my way to Kerglas , as the noble Rogear has begged me to come to him on business . '
` Begged you to come ! '
repeated the dwarf , ` and who , then , are you ? ' '
I am the new servant he has engaged , as you know very well , ' answered Peronnik . '
I do not know at all , ' rejoined the korigan sulkily , ` and you may be a robber for all I can tell . ' '
I am so sorry , ' replied Peronnik , ` but I may be wrong in calling myself a servant , for I am only a bird-catcher .
But do not delay me , I pray , for his highness the magician expects me , and , as you see , has lent me his colt so that I may reach the castle all the quicker . '
At these words the korigan cast his eyes for the first time on the colt , which he knew to be the one belonging to the magician , and began to think that the young man was speaking the truth .
After examining the horse , he studied the rider , who had such an innocent , and indeed vacant , air that he appeared incapable of inventing a story .
Still , the dwarf did not feel quite sure that all was right , and asked what the magician wanted with a bird-catcher .
` From what he says , he wants one very badly , ' replied Peronnik , ` as he declares that all his grain and all the fruit in his garden at Kerglas are eaten up by the birds . '
` And how are you going to stop that , my fine fellow ? '
inquired the korigan ; and Peronnik showed him the snare he had prepared , and remarked that no bird could possible escape from it .
` That is just what I should like to be sure of , ' answered the korigan .
` My apples are completely eaten up by blackbirds and thrushes .
Lay your snare , and if you can manage to catch them , I will let you pass . '
` That is a fair bargain , ' and as he spoke Peronnik jumped down and fastened his colt to a tree ; then , stopping , he fixed one end of the net to the trunk of the apple tree , and called to the korigan to hold the other while he took out the pegs .
The dwarf did as he was bid , when suddenly Peronnik threw the noose over his neck and drew it close , and the korigan was held as fast as any of the birds he wished to snare .
Shrieking with rage , he tried to undo the cord , but he only pulled the knot tighter .
He had put down the sword on the grass , and Peronnik had been careful to fix the net on the other side of the tree , so that it was now easy for him to pluck an apple and to mount his horse , without being hindered by the dwarf , whom he left to his fate .
When they had left the plain behind them , Peronnik and his steed found themselves in a narrow valley in which was a grove of trees , full of all sorts of sweet-smelling things -- roses of every colour , yellow broom , pink honeysuckle -- while above them all towered a wonderful scarlet pansy whose face bore a strange expression .
This was the flower that laughs , and no one who looked at it could help laughing too .
Peronnik 's heart beat high at the thought that he had reached safely the second trial , and he gazed quite calmly at the lion with the mane of vipers twisting and twirling , who walked up and down in front of the grove .
The young man pulled up and removed his cap , for , idiot though he was , he knew that when you have to do with people greater than yourself , a cap is more useful in the hand than on the head .
Then , after wishing all kinds of good fortune to the lion and his family , he inquired if he was on the right road to Kerglas .
` And what is your business at Kerglas ? '
asked the lion with a growl , and showing his teeth .
` With all respect , ' answered Peronnik , pretending to be very frightened , ' I am the servant of a lady who is a friend of the noble Rogear and sends him some larks for a pasty . '
` Larks ? '
cried the lion , licking his long whiskers .
` Why , it must be a century since I have had any !
Have you a large quantity with you ? '
` As many as this bag will hold , ' replied Peronnik , opening , as he spoke , the bag which he had filled with feathers and glue ; and to prove what he said , he turned his back on the lion and began to imitate the song of a lark .
` Come , ' exclaimed the lion , whose mouth watered , ` show me the birds !
I should like to see if they are fat enough for my master . ' '
I would do it with pleasure , ' answered the idiot , ` but if I once open the bag they will all fly away . '
` Well , open it wide enough for me to look in , ' said the lion , drawing a little nearer .
Now this was just what Peronnik had been hoping for , so he held the bag while the lion opened it carefully and put his head right inside , so that he might get a good mouthful of larks .
But the mass of feathers and glue stuck to him , and before he could pull his head out again Peronnik had drawn tight the cord , and tied it in a knot that no man could untie .
Then , quickly gathering the flower that laughs , he rode off as fast as the colt could take him .
The path soon led to the lake of the dragons , which he had to swim across .
The colt , who was accustomed to it , plunged into the water without hesitation ; but as soon as the dragons caught sight of Peronnik they approached from all parts of the lake in order to devour him .
This time Peronnik did not trouble to take off his cap , but he threw the beads he carried with him into the water , as you throw black corn to a duck , and with each bead that he swallowed a dragon turned on his back and died , so that the idiot reached the other side without further trouble .
The valley guarded by the black man now lay before him , and from afar Peronnik beheld him , chained by one foot to a rock at the entrance , and holding the iron ball which never missed its mark and always returned to its master 's hand .
In his head the black man had six eyes that were never all shut at once , but kept watch one after the other .
At this moment they were all open , and Peronnik knew well that if the black man caught a glimpse of him he would cast his ball .
So , hiding the colt behind a thicket of bushes , he crawled along a ditch and crouched close to the very rock to which the black man was chained .
The day was hot , and after a while the man began to grow sleepy .
Two of his eyes closed , and Peronnik sang gently .
In a moment a third eye shut , and Peronnik sang on .
The lid of a fourth eye dropped heavily , and then those of the fifth and the sixth .
The black man was asleep altogether .
Then , on tiptoe , the idiot crept back to the colt which he led over soft moss past the black man into the vale of pleasure , a delicious garden full of fruits that dangled before your mouth , fountains running with wine , and flowers chanting in soft little voices .
Further on , tables were spread with food , and girls dancing on the grass called to him to join them .
Peronnik heard , and , scarcely knowing what he did drew the colt into a slower pace .
He sniffed greedily the smell of the dishes , and raised his head the better to see the dancers .
Another instant and he would have stopped altogether and been lost , like others before him , when suddenly there came to him like a vision the golden bowl and the diamond lance .
Drawing his whistle from his pocket , he blew it loudly , so as to drown the sweet sounds about him , and ate what was left of his bread and bacon to still the craving of the magic fruits .
His eyes he fixed steadily on the ears of the colt , that he might not see the dancers .
In this way he was able to reach the end of the garden , and at length perceived the castle of Kerglas , with the river between them which had only one ford .
Would the lady be there , as the old man had told him ?
Yes , surely that was she , sitting on a rock , in a black satin dress , and her face the colour of a Moorish woman 's .
The idiot rode up , and took off his cap more politely than ever , and asked if she did not wish to cross the river . '
I was waiting for you to help me do so , ' answered she .
` Come near , that I may get up behind you . '
Peronnik did as she bade him , and by the help of his arm she jumped nimbly on to the back of the colt .
` Do you know how to kill the magician ? '
asked the lady , as they were crossing the ford . '
I thought that , being a magician , he was immortal , and that no one could kill him , ' replied Peronnik .
` Persuade him to taste that apple , and he will die , and if that is not enough I will touch him with my finger , for I am the plague , ' answered she .
` But if I kill him , how am I to get the golden bowl and the diamond lance that are hidden in the cellar without a key ? '
rejoined Peronnik .
` The flower that laughs opens all doors and lightens all darkness , ' said the lady ; and as she spoke , they reached the further bank , and advanced towards the castle .
In front of the entrance was a sort of tent supported on poles , and under it the giant was sitting , basking in the sun .
As soon as he noticed the colt bearing Peronnik and the lady , he lifted his head , and cried in a voice of thunder : ` Why , it is surely the idiot , riding my colt thirteen months old ! '
` Greatest of magicians , you are right , ' answered Peronnik .
` And how did you manage to catch him ? '
asked the giant .
` By repeating what I learnt from your brother Bryak on the edge of the forest , ' replied the idiot . '
I just said -- Colt , free to run and free to eat , Colt , gallop fast until we meet , and it came directly . '
` You know my brother , then ? '
inquired the giant .
` Tell me why he sent you here . '
` To bring you two gifts which he has just received from the country of the Moors , ' answered Peronnik : ` the apple of delight and the woman of submission .
If you eat the apple you will not desire anything else , and if you take the woman as your servant you will never wish for another . '
` Well , give me the apple , and bid the woman get down , ' answered Rogear .
The idiot obeyed , but at the first taste of the apple the giant staggered , and as the long yellow finger of the woman touched him he fell dead .
Leaving the magician where he lay , Peronnik entered the palace , bearing with him the flower that laughs .
Fifty doors flew open before him , and at length he reached a long flight of steps which seemed to lead into the bowels of the earth .
Down these he went till he came to a silver door without a bar or key .
Then he held up high the flower that laughs , and the door slowly swung back , displaying a deep cavern , which was as bright as the day from the shining of the golden bowl and the diamond lance .
The idiot hastily ran forward and hung the bowl round his neck from the chain which was attached to it , and took the lance in his hand .
As he did so , the ground shook beneath him , and with an awful rumbling the palace disappeared , and Peronnik found himself standing close to the forest where he led the cattle to graze .
Though darkness was coming on , Peronnik never thought of entering the farm , but followed the road which led to the court of the duke of Brittany .
As he passed through the town of Vannes he stopped at a tailor 's shop , and bought a beautiful costume of brown velvet and a white horse , which he paid for with a handful of gold that he had picked up in the corridor of the castle of Kerglas .
Thus he made his way to the city of Nantes , which at that moment was besieged by the French .
A little way off , Peronnik stopped and looked about him .
For miles round the country was bare , for the enemy had cut down every tree and burnt every blade of corn ; and , idiot though he might be , Peronnik was able to grasp that inside the gates men were dying of famine .
He was still gazing with horror , when a trumpeter appeared on the walls , and , after blowing a loud blast , announced that the duke would adopt as his heir the man who could drive the French out of the country .
On the four sides of the city the trumpeter blew his blast , and the last time Peronnik , who had ridden up as close as he might , answered him .
` You need blow no more , ' said he , ` for I myself will free the town from her enemies . '
And turning to a soldier who came running up , waving his sword , he touched him with the magic lance , and he fell dead on the spot .
The men who were following stood still , amazed .
Their comrade 's armour had not been pierced , of that they were sure , yet he was dead , as if he had been struck to the heart .
But before they had time to recover from their astonishment , Peronnik cried out : ` You see how my foes will fare ; now behold what I can do for my friends , ' and , stooping down , he laid the golden bowl against the mouth of the soldier , who sat up as well as ever .
Then , jumping his horse across the trench , he entered the gate of the city , which had opened wide enough to receive him .
The news of these marvels quickly spread through the town , and put fresh spirit into the garrison , so that they declared themselves able to fight under the command of the young stranger .
And as the bowl restored all the dead Bretons to life , Peronnik soon had an army large enough to drive away the French , and fulfilled his promise of delivering his country .
As to the bowl and the lance , no one knows what became of them , but some say that Bryak the sorcerer managed to steal them again , and that any one who wishes to possess them must seek them as Peronnik did .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par Emile Souvestre .
The Battle of the Birds There was to be a great battle between all the creatures of the earth and the birds of the air .
News of it went abroad , and the son of the king of Tethertown said that when the battle was fought he would be there to see it , and would bring back word who was to be king .
But in spite of that , he was almost too late , and every fight had been fought save the last , which was between a snake and a great black raven .
Both struck hard , but in the end the snake proved the stronger , and would have twisted himself round the neck of the raven till he died had not the king 's son drawn his sword , and cut off the head of the snake at a single blow .
And when the raven beheld that his enemy was dead , he was grateful , and said : ` For thy kindness to me this day , I will show thee a sight .
So come up now on the root of my two wings . '
The king 's son did as he was bid , and before the raven stopped flying , they had passed over seven bens and seven glens and seven mountain moors .
` Do you see that house yonder ? '
said the raven at last .
` Go straight for it , for a sister of mine dwells there , and she will make you right welcome .
And if she asks , `` Wert thou at the battle of the birds ? ''
answer that thou wert , and if she asks , `` Didst thou see my likeness ? ''
answer that thou sawest it , but be sure thou meetest me in the morning at this place . '
The king 's son followed what the raven told him and that night he had meat of each meat , and drink of each drink , warm water for his feet , and a soft bed to lie in .
Thus it happened the next day , and the next , but on the fourth meeting , instead of meeting the raven , in his place the king 's son found waiting for him the handsomest youth that ever was seen , with a bundle in his hand .
` Is there a raven hereabouts ? '
asked the king 's son , and the youth answered : ' I am that raven , and I was delivered by thee from the spells that bound me , and in reward thou wilt get this bundle .
Go back by the road thou camest , and lie as before , a night in each house , but be careful not to unloose the bundle till thou art in the place wherein thou wouldst most wish to dwell . '
Then the king 's son set out , and thus it happened as it had happened before , till he entered a thick wood near his father 's house .
He had walked a long way and suddenly the bundle seemed to grow heavier ; first he put it down under a tree , and next he thought he would look at it .
The string was easy to untie , and the king 's son soon unfastened the bundle .
What was it he saw there ?
Why , a great castle with an orchard all about it , and in the orchard fruit and flowers and birds of very kind .
It was all ready for him to dwell in , but instead of being in the midst of the forest , he did wish he had left the bundle unloosed till he had reached the green valley close to his father 's palace .
Well , it was no use wishing , and with a sigh he glanced up , and beheld a huge giant coming towards him .
` Bad is the place where thou hast built thy house , king 's son , ' said the giant .
` True ; it is not here that I wish to be , ' answered the king 's son .
` What reward wilt thou give me if I put it back in the bundle ? '
asked the giant .
` What reward dost thou ask ? '
answered the king 's son .
` The first boy thou hast when he is seven years old , ' said the giant .
` If I have a boy thou shalt get him , ' answered the king 's son , and as he spoke the castle and the orchard were tied up in the bundle again .
` Now take thy road , and I will take mine , ' said the giant .
` And if thou forgettest thy promise , I will remember it . '
Light of heart the king 's son went on his road , till he came to the green valley near his father 's palace .
Slowly he unloosed the bundle , fearing lest he should find nothing but a heap of stones or rags .
But no !
all was as it had been before , and as he opened the castle door there stood within the most beautiful maiden that ever was seen .
` Enter , king 's son , ' said she , ` all is ready , and we will be married at once , ' and so they were .
The maiden proved a good wife , and the king 's son , now himself a king , was so happy that he forgot all about the giant .
Seven years and a day had gone by , when one morning , while standing on the ramparts , he beheld the giant striding towards the castle .
Then he remembered his promise , and remembered , too , that he had told the queen nothing about it .
Now he must tell her , and perhaps she might help him in his trouble .
The queen listened in silence to his tale , and after he had finished , she only said : ` Leave thou the matter between me and the giant , ' and as she spoke , the giant entered the hall and stood before them .
` Bring out your son , ' cried he to the king , ` as you promised me seven years and a day since . '
The king glanced at his wife , who nodded , so he answered : ` Let his mother first put him in order , ' and the queen left the hall , and took the cook 's son and dressed him in the prince 's clothes , and led him up to the giant , who held his hand , and together they went out along the road .
They had not walked far when the giant stopped and stretched out a stick to the boy .
` If your father had that stick , what would he do with it ? '
asked he .
` If my father had that stick , he would beat the dogs and cats that steal the king 's meat , ' replied the boy .
` Thou art the cook 's son ! '
cried the giant .
` Go home to thy mother ' ; and turning his back he strode straight to the castle .
` If you seek to trick me this time , the highest stone will soon be the lowest , ' said he , and the king and queen trembled , but they could not bear to give up their boy .
` The butler 's son is the same age as ours , ' whispered the queen ; ` he will not know the difference , ' and she took the child and dressed him in the prince 's clothes , and the giant let him away along the road .
Before they had gone far he stopped , and held out a stick .
` If thy father had that rod , what would he do with it ? '
asked the giant .
` He would beat the dogs and cats that break the king 's glasses , ' answered the boy .
` Thou art the son of the butler ! '
cried the giant .
` Go home to thy mother ' ; and turning round he strode back angrily to the castle .
` Bring out thy son at once , ' roared he , ` or the stone that is highest will be lowest , ' and this time the real prince was brought .
But though his parents wept bitterly and fancied the child was suffering all kinds of dreadful things , the giant treated him like his own son , though he never allowed him to see his daughters .
The boy grew to be a big boy , and one day the giant told him that he would have to amuse himself alone for many hours , as he had a journey to make .
So the boy wandered to the top of the castle , where he had never been before .
There he paused , for the sound of music broke upon his ears , and opening a door near him , he beheld a girl sitting by the window , holding a harp .
` Haste and begone , I see the giant close at hand , ' she whispered hurriedly , ` but when he is asleep , return hither , for I would speak with thee . '
And the prince did as he was bid , and when midnight struck he crept back to the top of the castle .
` To-morrow , ' said the girl , who was the giant 's daughter , ` to-morrow thou wilt get the choice of my two sisters to marry , but thou must answer that thou wilt not take either , but only me .
This will anger him greatly , for he wishes to betroth me to the son of the king of the Green City , whom I like not at all . '
Then they parted , and on the morrow , as the girl had said , the giant called his three daughters to him , and likewise the young prince to whom he spoke .
` Now , O son of the king of Tethertown , the time has come for us to part .
Choose one of my two elder daughters to wife , and thou shalt take her to your father 's house the day after the wedding . '
` Give me the youngest instead , ' replied the youth , and the giant 's face darkened as he heard him .
` Three things must thou do first , ' said he .
` Say on , I will do them , ' replied the prince , and the giant left the house , and bade him follow to the byre , where the cows were kept .
` For a hundred years no man has swept this byre , ' said the giant , ` but if by nightfall , when I reach home , thou has not cleaned it so that a golden apple can roll through it from end to end , thy blood shall pay for it . '
All day long the youth toiled , but he might as well have tried to empty the ocean .
At length , when he was so tired he could hardly move , the giant 's youngest daughter stood in the doorway .
` Lay down thy weariness , ' said she , and the king 's son , thinking he could only die once , sank on the floor at her bidding , and fell sound asleep .
When he woke the girl had disappeared , and the byre was so clean that a golden apple could roll from end to end of it .
He jumped up in surprise , and at that moment in came the giant .
` Hast thou cleaned the byre , king 's son ? '
asked he . '
I have cleaned it , ' answered he .
` Well , since thou wert so active to-day , to-morrow thou wilt thatch this byre with a feather from every different bird , or else thy blood shall pay for it , ' and he went out .
Before the sun was up , the youth took his bow and his quiver and set off to kill the birds .
Off to the moor he went , but never a bird was to be seen that day .
At last he got so tired with running to and fro that he gave up heart .
` There is but one death I can die , ' thought he .
Then at midday came the giant 's daughter .
` Thou art tired , king 's son ? '
asked she . '
I am , ' answered he ; ` all these hours have I wandered , and there fell but these two blackbirds , both of one colour . '
` Lay down thy weariness on the grass , ' said she , and he did as she bade him , and fell fast asleep .
When he woke the girl had disappeared , and he got up , and returned to the byre .
As he drew near , he rubbed his eyes hard , thinking he was dreaming , for there it was , beautifully thatched , just as the giant had wished .
At the door of the house he met the giant .
` Hast thou thatched the byre , king 's son ? ' '
I have thatched it . '
` Well , since thou hast been so active to-day , I have something else for thee !
Beside the loch thou seest over yonder there grows a fir tree .
On the top of the fir tree is a magpie 's nest , and in the nest are five eggs .
Thou wilt bring me those eggs for breakfast , and if one is cracked or broken , thy blood shall pay for it . '
Before it was light next day , the king 's son jumped out of bed and ran down to the loch .
The tree was not hard to find , for the rising sun shone red on the trunk , which was five hundred feet from the ground to its first branch .
Time after time he walked round it , trying to find some knots , however small , where he could put his feet , but the bark was quite smooth , and he soon saw that if he was to reach the top at all , it must be by climbing up with his knees like a sailor .
But then he was a king 's son and not a sailor , which made all the difference .
However , it was no use standing there staring at the fir , at least he must try to do his best , and try he did till his hands and knees were sore , for as soon as he had struggled up a few feet , he slid back again .
Once he climbed a little higher than before , and hope rose in his heart , then down he came with such force that his hands and knees smarted worse than ever .
` This is no time for stopping , ' said the voice of the giant 's daughter , as he leant against the trunk to recover his breath .
` Alas !
I am no sooner up than down , ' answered he .
` Try once more , ' said she , and she laid a finger against the tree and bade him put his foot on it .
Then she placed another finger a little higher up , and so on till he reached the top , where the magpie had built her nest .
` Make haste now with the nest , ' she cried , ` for my father 's breath is burning my back , ' and down he scrambled as fast as he could , but the girl 's little finger had caught in a branch at the top , and she was obliged to leave it there .
But she was too busy to pay heed to this , for the sun was getting high over the hills .
` Listen to me , ' she said .
` This night my two sisters and I will be dressed in the same garments , and you will not know me .
But when my father says ` Go to thy wife , king 's son , ' come to the one whose right hand has no little finger . '
So he went and gave the eggs to the giant , who nodded his head .
` Make ready for thy marriage , ' cried he , ` for the wedding shall take place this very night , and I will summon thy bride to greet thee . '
Then his three daughters were sent for , and they all entered dressed in green silk of the same fashion , and with golden circlets round their heads .
The king 's son looked from one to another .
Which was the youngest ?
Suddenly his eyes fell on the hand of the middle one , and there was no little finger .
` Thou hast aimed well this time too , ' said the giant , as the king 's son laid his hand on her shoulder , ` but perhaps we may meet some other way ' ; and though he pretended to laugh , the bride saw a gleam in his eye which warned her of danger .
The wedding took place that very night , and the hall was filled with giants and gentlemen , and they danced till the house shook from top to bottom .
At last everyone grew tired , and the guests went away , and the king 's son and his bride were left alone .
` If we stay here till dawn my father will kill thee , ' she whispered , ` but thou art my husband and I will save thee , as I did before , ' and she cut an apple into nine pieces , and put two pieces at the head of the bed , and two pieces at the foot , and two pieces at the door of the kitchen , and two at the big door , and one outside the house .
And when this was done , and she heard the giant snoring , she and the king 's son crept out softly and stole across to the stable , where she led out the blue-grey mare and jumped on its back , and her husband mounted behind her .
Not long after , the giant awoke .
` Are you asleep ? '
asked he .
` Not yet , ' answered the apple at the head of the bed , and the giant turned over , and soon was snoring as loudly as before .
By and bye he called again .
` Are you asleep ? '
` Not yet , ' said the apple at the foot of the bed , and the giant was satisfied .
After a while , he called a third time , ` Are you asleep ? '
` Not yet , ' replied the apple in the kitchen , but when in a few minutes , he put the question for the fourth time and received an answer from the apple outside the house door , he guessed what had happened , and ran to the room to look for himself .
The bed was cold and empty !
` My father 's breath is burning my back , ' cried the girl , ` put thy hand into the ear of the mare , and whatever thou findest there , throw it behind thee . '
And in the mare 's ear there was a twig of sloe tree , and as he threw it behind him there sprung up twenty miles of thornwood so thick that scarce a weasel could go through it .
And the giant , who was striding headlong forwards , got caught in it , and it pulled his hair and beard .
` This is one of my daughter 's tricks , ' he said to himself , ` but if I had my big axe and my wood-knife , I would not be long making a way through this , ' and off he went home and brought back the axe and the wood-knife .
It took him but a short time to cut a road through the blackthorn , and then he laid the axe and the knife under a tree . '
I will leave them there till I return , ' he murmured to himself , but a hoodie crow , which was sitting on a branch above , heard him .
` If thou leavest them , ' said the hoodie , ` we will steal them . '
` You will , ' answered the giant , ` and I must take them home . '
So he took them home , and started afresh on his journey .
` My father 's breath is burning my back , ' cried the girl at midday .
` Put thy finger in the mare 's ear and throw behind thee whatever thou findest in it , ' and the king 's son found a splinter of grey stone , and threw it behind him , and in a twinkling twenty miles of solid rock lay between them and the giant .
` My daughter 's tricks are the hardest things that ever met me , ' said the giant , ` but if I had my lever and my crowbar , I would not be long in making my way through this rock also , ' but as he had got them , he had to go home and fetch them .
Then it took him but a short time to hew his way through the rock . '
I will leave the tools here , ' he murmured aloud when he had finished .
` If thou leavest them , we will steal them , ' said a hoodie who was perched on a stone above him , and the giant answered : ` Steal them if thou wilt ; there is no time to go back . '
` My father 's breath is burning my back , ' cried the girl ; ` look in the mare 's ear , king 's son , or we are lost , ' and he looked , and found a tiny bladder full of water , which he threw behind him , and it became a great lock .
And the giant , who was striding on so fast , could not stop himself , and he walked right into the middle and was drowned .
The blue-grey mare galloped on like the wind , and the next day the king 's son came in sight of his father 's house .
` Get down and go in , ' said the bride , ` and tell them that thou hast married me .
But take heed that neither man nor beast kiss thee , for then thou wilt cease to remember me at all . ' '
I will do thy bidding , ' answered he , and left her at the gate .
All who met him bade him welcome , and he charged his father and mother not to kiss him , but as he greeted them his old greyhound leapt on his neck , and kissed him on the mouth .
And after that he did not remember the giant 's daughter .
All that day she sat on a well which was near the gate , waiting , waiting , but the king 's son never came .
In the darkness she climbed up into an oak tree that shadowed the well , and there she lay all night , waiting , waiting .
On the morrow , at midday , the wife of a shoemaker who dwelt near the well went to draw water for her husband to drink , and she saw the shadow of the girl in the tree , and thought it was her own shadow .
` How handsome I am , to be sure , ' said she , gazing into the well , and as she stopped to behold herself better , the jug struck against the stones and broke in pieces , and she was forced to return to her husband without the water , and this angered him .
` Thou hast turned crazy , ' said he in wrath .
` Go thou , my daughter , and fetch me a drink , ' and the girl went , and the same thing befell her as had befallen her mother .
` Where is the water ? '
asked the shoemaker , when she came back , and as she held nothing save the handle of the jug he went to the well himself .
He too saw the reflection of the woman in the tree , but looked up to discover whence it came , and there above him sat the most beautiful woman in the world .
` Come down , ' he said , ` for a while thou canst stay in my house , ' and glad enough the girl was to come .
Now the king of the country was about to marry , and the young men about the court thronged the shoemaker 's shop to buy fine shoes to wear at the wedding .
` Thou hast a pretty daughter , ' said they when they beheld the girl sitting at work .
` Pretty she is , ' answered the shoemaker , ` but no daughter of mine . ' '
I would give a hundred pounds to marry her , ' said one .
` And I , ' ` And I , ' cried the others .
` That is no business of mine , ' answered the shoemaker , and the young men bade him ask her if she would choose one of them for a husband , and to tell them on the morrow .
Then the shoemaker asked her , and the girl said that she would marry the one who would bring his purse with him .
So the shoemaker hurried to the youth who had first spoken , and he came back , and after giving the shoemaker a hundred pounds for his news , he sought the girl , who was waiting for him .
` Is it thou ? '
inquired she . '
I am thirsty , give me a drink from the well that is yonder . '
And he poured out the water , but he could not move from the place where he was ; and there he stayed till many hours had passed by .
` Take away that foolish boy , ' cried the girl to the shoemaker at last , ' I am tired of him , ' and then suddenly he was able to walk , and betook himself to his home , but he did not tell the others what had happened to him .
Next day there arrived one of the other young men , and in the evening , when the shoemaker had gone out and they were alone , she said to him , ` See if the latch is on the door . '
The young man hastened to do her bidding , but as soon as he touched the latch , his fingers stuck to it , and there he had to stay for many hours , till the shoemaker came back , and the girl let him go .
Hanging his head , he went home , but he told no one what had befallen him .
Then was the turn of the third man , and his foot remained fastened to the floor , till the girl unloosed it .
And thankfully , he ran off , and was not seen looking behind him .
` Take the purse of gold , ' said the girl to the shoemaker , ' I have no need of it , and it will better thee . '
And the shoemaker took it and told the girl he must carry the shoes for the wedding up to the castle . '
I would fain get a sight of the king 's son before he marries , ' sighed she .
` Come with me , then , ' answered he ; ` the servants are all my friends , and they will let you stand in the passage down which the king 's son will pass , and all the company too . '
Up they went to the castle , and when the young men saw the girl standing there , they led her into the hall where the banquet was laid out and poured her out some wine .
She was just raising the glass to drink when a flame went up out of it , and out of the flame sprang two pigeons , one of gold and one of silver .
They flew round and round the head of the girl , when three grains of barley fell on the floor , and the silver pigeon dived down , and swallowed them .
` If thou hadst remembered how I cleaned the byre , thou wouldst have given me my share , ' cooed the golden pigeon , and as he spoke three more grains fell , and the silver pigeon ate them as before .
` If thou hadst remembered how I thatched the byre , thou wouldst have given me my share , ' cooed the golden pigeon again ; and as he spoke three more grains fell , and for the third time they were eaten by the silver pigeon .
` If thou hadst remembered how I got the magpie 's nest , thou wouldst have given me my share , ' cooed the golden pigeon .
Then the king 's son understood that they had come to remind him of what he had forgotten , and his lost memory came back , and he knew his wife , and kissed her .
But as the preparations had been made , it seemed a pity to waste them , so they were married a second time , and sat down to the wedding feast .
From ` Tales of the West Highlands . '
The Lady of the Fountain .
In the centre of the great hall in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk , king Arthur sat on a seat of green rushes , over which was thrown a covering of flame-coloured silk , and a cushion of red satin lay under his elbow .
With him were his knights Owen and Kynon and Kai , while at the far end , close to the window , were Guenevere the queen and her maidens embroidering white garments with strange devices of gold . '
I am weary , ' said Arthur , ` and till my food is prepared I would fain sleep .
You yourselves can tell each other tales , and Kai will fetch you from the kitchen a flagon of mean and some meat . '
And when they had eaten and drunk , Kynon , the oldest among them , began his story . '
I was the only son of my father and mother , and much store they set by me , but I was not content to stay with them at home , for I thought no deed in all the world was too mighty for me .
None could hold me back , and after I had won many adventures in my own land , I bade farewell to my parents and set out to see the world .
Over mountains , through deserts , across rivers I went , till I reached a fair valley full of trees , with a path running by the side of a stream .
I walked along that path all the day , and in the evening I came to a castle in front of which stood two youths clothed in yellow , each grasping an ivory bow , with arrows made of the bones of the whale , and winged with peacock 's feathers .
By their sides hung golden daggers with hilts of the bones of the whale .
` Near these young men was a man richly dressed , who turned and went with me towards the castle , where all the dwellers were gathered in the hall .
In one window I beheld four and twenty damsels , and the least fair of them was fairer than Guenevere at her fairest .
Some took my horse , and others unbuckled my armour , and washed it , with my sword and spear , till it all shone like silver .
Then I washed myself and put on a vest and doublet which they brought me , and I and the man that entered with me sat down before a table of silver , and a goodlier feast I never had .
` All this time neither the man nor the damsels had spoken one word , but when our dinner was half over , and my hunger was stilled , the man began to ask who I was .
Then I told him my name and my father 's name , and why I came there , for indeed I had grown weary of gaining the mastery over all men at home , and sought if perchance there was one who could gain the mastery over me .
And at this the man smiled and answered : ' `` If I did not fear to distress thee too much , I would show thee what thou seekest . ''
His words made me sorrowful and fearful of myself , which the man perceived , and added , `` If thou meanest truly what thou sayest , and desirest earnestly to prove thy valour , and not to boast vainly that none can overcome thee , I have somewhat to show thee .
But to-night thou must sleep in the this castle , and in the morning see that thou rise early and follow the road upwards through the valley , until thou reachest a wood .
In the wood is a path branching to the right ; go along this path until thou comest to a space of grass with a mound in the middle of it .
On the top of the mound stands a black man , larger than any two white men ; his eye is in the centre of his forehead and he has only one foot .
He carries a club of iron , and two white men could hardly lift it .
Around him graze a thousand beasts , all of different kinds , for he is the guardian of that wood , and it is he who will tell thee which way to go in order to find the adventure thou art in quest of . ''
` So spake the man , and long did that night seem to me , and before dawn I rose and put on my armour , and mounted my horse and rode on till I reached the grassy space of which he had told me .
There was the black man on top of the mound , as he had said , and in truth he was mightier in all ways than I had thought him to be .
As for the club , Kai , it would have been a burden for four of our warriors .
He waited for me to speak , and I asked him what power he held over the beasts that thronged so close about him . '
`` I will show thee , little man , '' he answered , and with his club he struck a stag on the head till he brayed loudly .
And at his braying the animals came running , numerous as the stars in the sky , so that scarce was I able to stand among them .
Serpents were there also , and dragons , and beasts of strange shapes , with horns in places where never saw I horns before .
And the black man only looked at them and bade them go and feed .
And they bowed themselves before him , as vassals before their lord . '
`` Now , little man , I have answered thy question and showed thee my power , '' said he .
`` Is there anything else thou wouldest know ? ''
Then I inquired of him my way , but he grew angry , and , as I perceived , would fain have hindered me ; but at the last , after I had told him who I was , his anger passed from him . '
`` Take that path , '' said he , `` that leads to the head of this grassy glade , and go up the wood till thou reachest the top .
There thou wilt find an open space , and in the midst of it a tall tree .
Under the tree is a fountain , and by the fountain a marble slab , and on the slab a bowl of silver , with a silver chain .
Dip the bowl in the fountain , and throw the water on the slab , and thou wilt hear a might peal of thunder , till heaven and earth seem trembling with the noise .
After the thunder will come hail , so fierce that scarcely canst thou endure it and live , for the hailstones are both large and thick .
Then the sun will shine again , but every leaf of the tree will by lying on the ground .
Next a flight of birds will come and alight on the tree , and never didst thou hear a strain so sweet as that which they will sing .
And at the moment in which their song sounds sweetest thou wilt hear a murmuring and complaining coming towards thee along the valley , and thou wilt see a knight in black velvet bestriding a black horse , bearing a lance with a black pennon , and he will spur his steed so as to fight thee .
If thou turnest to flee , he will overtake thee .
And if thou abidest were thou art , he will unhorse thee .
And if thou dost not find trouble in that adventure , thou needest not to seek it during the rest of thy life . ''
` So I bade the black man farewell , and took my way to the top of the wood , and there I found everything just as I had been told .
I went up to the tree beneath which stood the fountain , and filling the silver bowl with water , emptied it on the marble slab .
Thereupon the thunder came , louder by far than I had expected to hear it , and after the thunder came the shower , but heavier by far than I had expected to feel it , for , of a truth I tell thee , Kai , not one of those hailstones would be stopped by skin or by flesh till it had reached the bone .
I turned my horse 's flank towards the shower , and , bending over his neck , held my shield so that it might cover his head and my own .
When the hail had passed , I looked on the tree and not a single leaf was left on it , and the sky was blue and the sun shining , while on the branches were perched birds of very kind , who sang a song sweeter than any that has come to my ears , either before or since .
` Thus , Kai , I stood listening to the birds , when lo , a murmuring voice approached me , saying : ' `` O knight , what has brought thee hither ?
What evil have I done to thee , that thou shouldest do so much to me , for in all my lands neither man nor beast that met that shower has escaped alive . ''
Then from the valley appeared the knight on the black horse , grasping the lance with the black pennon .
Straightway we charged each other , and though I fought my best , he soon overcame me , and I was thrown to the ground , while the knight seized the bridle of my horse , and rode away with it , leaving me where I was , without even despoiling me of my armour .
` Sadly did I go down the hill again , and when I reached the glade where the black man was , I confess to thee , Kai , it was a marvel that I did not melt into a liquid pool , so great was my shame .
That night I slept at the castle where I had been before , and I was bathed and feasted , and none asked me how I had fared .
The next morning when I arose I found a bay horse saddled for me , and , girdling on my armour , I returned to my own court .
The horse is still in the stable , and I would not part with it for any in Britain .
` But of a truth , Kai , no man ever confessed an adventure so much to his own dishonour , and strange indeed it seems that none other man have I ever met that knew of the black man , and the knight and the shower . '
` Would it not be well , ' said Owen , ` to go and discover the place ? '
` By the hand of my friend , ' answered Kai , ` often dost thou utter that with thy tongue which thou wouldest not make good with thy deeds . '
` In truth , ' said Guenevere the queen , who had listened to the tale , ` thou wert better hanged , Kai , than use such speech towards a man like Owen . ' '
I meant nothing , lady , ' replied Kai ; ` thy praise of Owen is not greater than mine . '
And as he spoke Arthur awoke , and asked if he had not slept for a little .
` Yes , lord , ' answered Owen , ` certainly thou hast slept . '
` Is it time for us to go to meat ? '
` It is , lord , ' answered Owen .
Then the horn for washing themselves was sounded , and after that the king and his household sat down to eat .
And when they had finished , Owen left them , and made ready his horse and his arms .
With the first rays of the sun he set forth , and travelled through deserts and over mountains and across rivers , and all befell him which had befallen Kynon , till he stood under the leafless tree listening to the song of the birds .
Then he heard the voice , and turning to look found the knight galloping to meet him .
Fiercely they fought till their lances were broken , and then they drew their swords , and a blow from Owen cut through the knight 's helmet , and pierced his skull .
Feeling himself wounded unto death the knight fled , and Owen pursued him till they came to a splendid castle .
Here the knight dashed across the bridge that spanned the moat , and entered the gate , but as soon as he was safe inside , the drawbridge was pulled up and caught Owen 's horse in the middle , so that half of him was inside and half out , and Owen could not dismount and knew not what to do .
While he was in this sore plight a little door in the castle gate opened , and he could see a street facing him , with tall houses .
Then a maiden with curling hair of gold looked through the little door and bade Owen open the gate .
` By my troth ! '
cried Owen , ' I can no more open it from here than thou art able to set me free . '
` Well , ' said she , ' I will do my best to release thee if thou wilt do as I tell thee .
Take this ring and put it on with the stone inside thy hand , and close thy fingers tight , for as long as thou dost conceal it , it will conceal thee .
When the men inside have held counsel together , they will come to fetch thee to thy death , and they will be much grieved not to find thee .
I will stand on the horse block yonder and thou canst see me though I can not see thee .
Therefore draw near and place thy hand on my shoulder and follow me wheresoever I go . '
Upon that she went away from Owen , and when the men came out from the castle to seek him and did not find him they were sorely grieved , and they returned to the castle .
Then Owen went to the maiden and placed his hand on her shoulder , and she guided him to a large room , painted all over with rich colours , and adorned with images of gold .
Here she gave him meat and drink , and water to wash with and garments to wear , and he lay down upon a soft bed , with scarlet and fur to cover him , and slept gladly .
In the middle of the night he woke hearing a great outcry , and he jumped up and clothed himself and went into the hall , where the maiden was standing .
` What is it ? '
he asked , and she answered that the knight who owned the castle was dead , and they were bearing his body to the church .
Never had Owen beheld such vast crowds , and following the dead knight was the most beautiful lady in the world , whose cry was louder than the shout of the men , or the braying of the trumpets .
And Owen looked on her and loved her .
` Who is she ? '
he asked the damsel .
` That is my mistress , the countess of the fountain , and the wife of him whom thou didst slay yesterday . '
` Verily , ' said Owen , ` she is the woman that I love best . '
` She shall also love thee not a little , ' said the maiden .
Then she left Owen , and after a while went into the chamber of her mistress , and spoke to her , but the countess answered her nothing .
` What aileth thee , mistress ? '
inquired the maiden .
` Why hast thou kept far from me in my grief , Luned ? '
answered the countess , and in her turn the damsel asked : ` Is it well for thee to mourn so bitterly for the dead , or for anything that is gone from thee ? '
` There is no man in the world equal to him , ' replied the countess , her cheeks growing red with anger . '
I would fain banish thee for such words . '
` Be not angry , lady , ' said Luned , ` but listen to my counsel .
Thou knowest well that alone thou canst not preserve thy lands , therefore seek some one to help thee . '
` And how can I do that ? '
asked the countess . '
I will tell thee , ' answered Luned .
` Unless thou canst defend the fountain all will be lost , and none can defend the fountain except a knight of Arthur 's court .
There will I go to seek him , and woe betide me if I return without a warrior that can guard the fountain , as well as he who kept it before . '
` Go then , ' said the countess , ` and make proof of that which thou hast promised . '
So Luned set out , riding on a white palfrey , on pretence of journeying to King Arthur 's court , but instead of doing that she hid herself for as many days as it would have taken her to go and come , and then she left her hiding-place , and went into the countess .
` What news from the court ? '
asked her mistress , when she had given Luned a warm greeting .
` The best of news , ' answered the maiden , ` for I have gained the object of my mission .
When wilt thou that I present to thee the knight who has returned with me ? '
` To-morrow at midday , ' said the countess , ` and I will cause all the people in the town to come together . '
Therefore the next day at noon Owen put on his coat of mail , and over it he wore a splendid mantle , while on his feet were leather shoes fastened with clasps of gold .
And he followed Luned to the chamber of her mistress .
Right glad was the countess to see them , but she looked closely at Owen and said : ` Luned , this knight has scarcely the air of a traveller . '
` What harm is there in that , lady ? '
answered Luned . '
I am persuaded , ' said the countess , ` that this man and no other chased the soul from the body of my lord . '
` Had he not been stronger than thy lord , ' replied the damsel , ` he could not have taken his life , and for that , and for all things that are past , there is no remedy . '
` Leave me , both of you , ' said the countess , ` and I will take counsel . '
Then they went out .
The next morning the countess summoned her subjects to meet in the courtyard of the castle , and told them that now that her husband was dead there was none to defend her lands .
` So choose you which it shall be , ' she said .
` Either let one of you take me for a wife , or give me your consent to take a new lord for myself , that my lands be not without a master . '
At her words the chief men of the city withdrew into one corner and took counsel together , and after a while the leader came forward and said that they had decided that it was best , for the peace and safety of all , that she should choose a husband for herself .
Thereupon Owen was summoned to her presence , and he accepted with joy the hand that she offered him , and they were married forthwith , and the men of the earldom did him homage .
From that day Owen defended the fountain as the earl before him had done , and every knight that came by was overthrown by him , and his ransom divided among his barons .
In this way three years passed , and no man in the world was more beloved than Owen .
Now at the end of the three years it happened that Gwalchmai the knight was with Arthur , and he perceived the king to be very sad .
` My lord , has anything befallen thee ? '
he asked .
` Oh , Gwalchmai , I am grieved concerning Owen , whom I have lost these three years , and if a fourth year passes without him I can live no longer .
And sure am I that the tale told by Kynon the son of Clydno caused me to lose him .
I will go myself with the men of my household to avenge him if he is dead , to free him if he is in prison , to bring him back if he is alive . '
Then Arthur and three thousand men of his household set out in quest of Owen , and took Kynon for their guide .
When Arthur reached the castle , the youths were shooting in the same place , and the same yellow man was standing by , and as soon as he beheld Arthur he greeted him and invited him in , and they entered together .
So vast was the castle that the king 's three thousand men were of no more account than if they had been twenty .
At sunrise Arthur departed thence , with Kynon for his guide , and reached the black man first , and afterwards the top of the wooded hill , with the fountain and the bowl and the tree .
` My lord , ' said Kai , ` let me throw the water on the slab , and receive the first adventure that may befall . '
` Thou mayest do so , ' answered Arthur , and Kai threw the water .
Immediately all happened as before ; the thunder and the shower of hail which killed many of Arthur 's men ; the song of the birds and the appearance of the black knight .
And Kai met him and fought him , and was overthrown by him .
Then the knight rode away , and Arthur and his men encamped where they stood .
In the morning Kai again asked leave to meet the knight and to try to overcome him , which Arthur granted .
But once more he was unhorsed , and the black knight 's lance broke his helmet and pierced the skin even to the bone , and humbled in spirit he returned to the camp .
After this every one of the knights gave battle , but none came out victor , and at length there only remained Arthur himself and Gwalchmai .
` Oh , let me fight him , my lord , ' cried Gwalchmai , as he saw Arthur taking up his arms .
` Well , fight then , ' answered Arthur , and Gwalchmai threw a robe over himself and his horse , so that none knew him .
All that day they fought , and neither was able to throw the other , and so it was on the next day .
On the third day the combat was so fierce that they fell both to the ground at once , and fought on their feet , and at last the black knight gave his foe such a blow on his head that his helmet fell from his face . '
I did not know it was thee , Gwalchmai , ' said the black knight .
` Take my sword and my arms . '
` No , ' answered Gwalchmai , ` it is thou , Owen , who art the victor , take thou my sword ' ; but Owen would not .
` Give me your swords , ' said Arthur from behind them , ` for neither of you has vanquished the other , ' and Owen turned and put his arms round Arthur 's neck .
The next day Arthur would have given orders to his men to make ready to go back whence they came , but Owen stopped him .
` My lord , ' he said , ` during the three years that I have been absent from thee I have been preparing a banquet for thee , knowing full well that thou wouldst come to seek me .
Tarry with me , therefore , for a while , thou and thy men . '
So they rode to the castle of the countess of the fountain , and spent three months in resting and feasting .
And when it was time for them to depart Arthur besought the countess that she would allow Owen to go with him to Britain for the space of three months .
With a sore heart she granted permission , and so content was Owen to be once more with his old companions that three years instead of three months passed away like a dream .
One day Owen sat at meat in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk , when a damsel on a bay horse entered the hall , and riding straight up to the place where Owen sat she stooped and drew the ring from off his hand .
` Thus shall be treated the traitor and the faithless , ' said she , and turning her horse 's head she rode out of the hall .
At her words Owen remembered all that he had forgotten , and sorrowful and ashamed he went to his own chamber and made ready to depart .
At the dawn he set out , but he did not go back to the castle , for his heart was heavy , but he wandered far into wild places till his body was weak and thin , and his hair was long .
The wild beasts were his friends , and he slept by their side , but in the end he longed to see the face of a man again , and he came down into a valley and fell asleep by a lake in the lands of a widowed countess .
Now it was the time when the countess took her walk , attended by her maidens , and when they saw a man lying by the lake they shrank back in terror , for he lay so still that they thought he was dead .
But when they had overcome their fright , they drew near him , and touched him , and saw that there was life in him .
Then the countess hastened to the castle , and brought from it a flask full of precious ointment and gave it to one of her maidens .
` Take that horse which is grazing yonder , ' she said , ` and a suit of men 's garments , and place them near the man , and pour some of this ointment near his heart .
If there is any life in him that will bring it back .
But if he moves , hide thyself in the bushes near by , and see what he does . '
The damsel took the flask and did her mistress ' bidding .
Soon the man began to move his arms , and then rose slowly to his feet .
Creeping forward step by step he took the garments from off the saddle and put them on him , and painfully he mounted the horse .
When he was seated the damsel came forth and greeted him , and glad was he when he saw her and inquired what castle that was before him .
` It belongs to a widowed countess , ' answered the maiden .
` Her husband left her two earldoms , but it is all that remains of her broad lands , for they have been torn from her by a young earl , because she would not marry him . '
` That is a pity , ' replied Owen , but he said no more , for he was too weak to talk much .
Then the maiden guided him to the castle , and kindled a fire , and brought him food .
And there he stayed and was tended for three months , till he was handsomer than ever he was .
At noon one day Owen heard a sound of arms outside the castle , and he asked of the maiden what it was .
` It is the earl of whom I spoke to thee , ' she answered , ` who has come with a great host to carry off my mistress . '
` Beg of her to lend me a horse and armour , ' said Owen , and the maiden did so , but the countess laughed somewhat bitterly as she answered : ` Nay , but I will give them to him , and such a horse and armour and weapons as he has never had yet , though I know not what use they will be to him .
Yet mayhap it will save them from falling into the hands of my enemies . '
The horse was brought out and Owen rode forth with two pages behind him , and they saw the great host encamped before them .
` Where is the earl ? '
said he , and the pages answered : ` In yonder troop where are four yellow standards . '
` Await me , ' said Owen , ` at the gate of the castle , and he cried a challenge to the earl , who came to meet him .
Hard did they fight , but Owen overthrew his enemy and drove him in front to the castle gate and into the hall .
` Behold the reward of thy blessed balsam , ' said he , as he bade the earl kneel down before her , and made him swear that he would restore all that he had taken from her .
After that he departed , and went into the deserts , and as he was passing through a wood he heard a loud yelling .
Pushing aside the bushes he beheld a lion standing on a great mound , and by it a rock .
Near the rock was a lion seeking to reach the mound , and each time he moved out darted a serpent from the rock to prevent him .
Then Owen unsheathed his sword , and cut off the serpent 's head and went on his way , and the lion followed and played about him , as if he had been a greyhound .
And much more useful was he than a greyhound , for in the evening he brought large logs in his mouth to kindle a fire , and killed a fat buck for dinner .
Owen made his fire and skinned the buck , and put some of it to roast , and gave the rest to the lion for supper .
While he was waiting for the meat to cook he heard a sound of deep sighing close to him , and he said : ` Who are thou ? ' '
I am Luned , ' replied a voice from a cave so hidden by bushes and green hanging plants that Owen had not seen it .
` And what dost thou here ? '
cried he . '
I am held captive in this cave on account of the knight who married the countess and left her , for the pages spoke ill of him , and because I told them that no man living was his equal they dragged me here and said I should die unless he should come to deliver me by a certain day , and that is no further than the day after to-morrow .
His name is Owen the son of Urien , but I have none to send to tell him of my danger , or of a surety he would deliver me . '
Owen held his peace , but gave the maiden some of the meat , and bade her be of good cheer .
Then , followed by the lion , he set out for a great castle on the other side of the plain , and men came and took his horse and placed it in a manger , and the lion went after and lay down on the straw .
Hospitable and kind were all within the castle , but so full of sorrow that it might have been thought death was upon them .
At length , when they had eaten and drunk , Owen prayed the earl to tell him the reason of their grief .
` Yesterday , ' answered the earl , ` my two sons were seized , while thy were hunting , by a monster who dwells on those mountains yonder , and he vows that he will not let them go unless I give him my daughter to wife . '
` That shall never be , ' said Owen ; ` but what form hath this monster ? '
` In shape he is a man , but in stature he is a giant , ' replied the earl , ` and it were better by far that he should slay my sons than that I should give up my daughter . '
Early next morning the dwellers in the castle were awakened by a great clamour , and they found that the giant had arrived with the two young men .
Swiftly Owen put on his armour and went forth to meet the giant , and the lion followed at his heels .
And when the great beast beheld the hard blows which the giant dealt his master he flew at his throat , and much trouble had the monster in beating him off .
` Truly , ' said the giant , ' I should find no difficulty in fighting thee , if it were not for that lion . '
When he heard that Owen felt shame that he could not overcome the giant with his own sword , so he took the lion and shut him up in one of the towers of the castle , and returned to the fight .
But from the sound of the blows the lion knew that the combat was going ill for Owen , so he climbed up till he reached the top of the tower , where there was a door on to the roof , and from the tower he sprang on to the walls , and from the walls to the ground .
Then with a loud roar he leaped upon the giant , who fell dead under the blow of his paw .
Now the gloom of the castle was turned into rejoicing , and the earl begged Owen to stay with him till he could make him a feast , but the knight said he had other work to do , and rode back to the place where he had left Luned , and the lion followed at his heels .
When he came there he saw a great fire kindled , and two youths leading out the maiden to cast her upon the pile .
` Stop ! '
he cried , dashing up to them .
` What charge have you against her ? '
` She boasted that no man in the world was equal to Owen , ' said they , ` and we shut her in a cave , and agreed that none should deliver her but Owen himself , and that if he did not come by a certain day she should die .
And now the time has past and there is no sign of him . '
` In truth he is a good knight , and had he but known that the maid was in peril he would have come to save her , ' said Owen ; ` but accept me in his stead , I entreat you . '
` We will , ' replied they , and the fight began .
The youths fought well and pressed hard on Owen , and when the lion saw that he came to help his master .
But the youths made a sign for the fight to stop , and said : ` Chieftain , it was agreed we should give battle to thee alone , and it is harder for us to contend with yonder beast than with thee . '
Then Owen shut up the lion in the cave where the maiden had been in prison , and blocked up the front with stones .
But the fight with the giant had sorely tried him , and the youths fought well , and pressed him harder than before .
And when the lion saw that he gave a loud roar , and burst through the stones , and sprang upon the youths and slew them .
And so Luned was delivered at the last .
Then the maiden rode back with Owen to the lands of the lady of the fountain .
And he took the lady with him to Arthur 's court , where they lived happily till they died .
From the ` Mabinogion . '
The Four Gifts In the old land of Brittany , once called Cornwall , there lived a woman named Barbaik Bourhis , who spent all her days in looking after her farm with the help of her niece Tephany .
Early and late the two might be seen in the fields or in the dairy , milking cows , making butter , feeding fowls ; working hard themselves and taking care that others worked too .
Perhaps it might have been better for Barbaik if she had left herself a little time to rest and to think about other things , for soon she grew to love money for its own sake , and only gave herself and Tephany the food and clothes they absolutely needed .
And as for poor people she positively hated them , and declared that such lazy creatures had no business in the world .
Well , this being the sort of person Barbaik was , it is easy to guess at her anger when one day she found Tephany talking outside the cowhouse to young Denis , who was nothing more than a day labourer from the village of Plover .
Seizing her niece by the arm , she pulled her sharply away , exclaiming : ` Are you not ashamed , girl , to waste your time over a man who is as poor as a rat , when there are a dozen more who would be only too happy to buy you rings of silver , if you would let them ? '
` Denis is a good workman , as you know very well , ' answered Tephany , red with anger , ` and he puts by money too , and soon he will be able to take a farm for himself . '
` Nonsense , ' cried Barbaik , ` he will never save enough for a farm till he is a hundred .
I would sooner see you in your grave than the wife of a man who carries his whole fortune on his back . '
` What does fortune matter when one is young and strong ? '
asked Tephany , but her aunt , amazed at such words , would hardly let her finish .
` What does fortune matter ? '
repeated Barbaik , in a shocked voice .
` Is it possible that you are really so foolish as to despise money ?
If this is what you learn from Denis , I forbid you to speak to him , and I will have him turned out of the farm if he dares to show his face here again .
Now go and wash the clothes and spread them out to dry . '
Tephany did not dare to disobey , but with a heavy heart went down the path to the river .
` She is harder than these rocks , ' said the girl to herself , ` yes , a thousand times harder .
For the rain at least can at last wear away the stone , but you might cry for ever , and she would never care .
Talking to Denis is the only pleasure I have , and if I am not to see him I may as well enter a convent . '
Thinking these thoughts she reached the bank , and began to unfold the large packet of linen that had to be washed .
The tap of a stick made her look up , and standing before her she saw a little old woman , whose face was strange to her .
` You would like to sit down and rest , granny ? '
asked Tephany , pushing aside her bundle .
` When the sky is all the roof you have , you rest where you will , ' replied the old woman in trembling tones .
` Are you so lonely , then ? '
inquired Tephany , full of pity .
` Have you no friends who would welcome you into their houses ? '
The old woman shook her head .
` They all died long , long ago , ' she answered , ` and the only friends I have are strangers with kind hearts . '
The girl did not speak for a moment , then held out the small loaf and some bacon intended for her dinner .
` Take this , ' she said ; ` to-day at any rate you shall dine well , ' and the old woman took it , gazing at Tephany the while .
` Those who help others deserve to be helped , ' she answered ; ` your eyes are still red because that miser Barbaik has forbidden you to speak to the young man from Plover .
But cheer up , you are a good girl , and I will give you something that will enable you to see him once every day . '
` You ? '
cried Tephany , stupefied at discovering that the beggar knew all about her affairs , but the old woman did not hear her .
` Take this long copper pin , ' she went on , ` and every time you stick it in your dress Mother Bourhis will be obliged to leave the house in order to go and count her cabbages .
As long as the pin is in your dress you will be free , and your aunt will not come back until you have put it in its case again . '
Then , rising , she nodded to Tephany and vanished .
The girl stood where she was , as still as a stone .
If it had not been for the pin in her hands she would have thought she was dreaming .
But by that token she knew it was no common old woman who had given it to her , but a fairy , wise in telling what would happen in the days to come .
Then suddenly Tephany 's eyes fell on the clothes , and to make up for lost time she began to wash them with great vigour .
Next evening , at the moment when Denis was accustomed to wait for her in the shadow of the cowhouse , Tephany stuck the pin in her dress , and at the very same instant Barbaik took up her sabots or wooden shoes and went through the orchard and past to the fields , to the plot where the cabbages grew .
With a heart as light as her footsteps , the girl ran from the house , and spent her evening happily with Denis .
And so it was for many days after that .
Then , at last , Tephany began to notice something , and the something made her very sad .
At first , Denis seemed to find the hours that they were together fly as quickly as she did , but when he had taught her all the songs he knew , and told her all the plans he had made for growing rich and a great man , he had nothing more to say to her , for he , like a great many other people , was fond of talking himself , but not of listening to any one else .
Sometimes , indeed , he never came at all , and the next evening he would tell Tephany that he had been forced to go into the town on business , but though she never reproached him she was not deceived and saw plainly that he no longer cared for her as he used to do .
Day by day her heart grew heavier and her cheeks paler , and one evening , when she had waited for him in vain , she put her water-pot on her shoulder and went slowly down to the spring .
On the path in front of her stood the fairy who had given her the pin , and as she glanced at Tephany she gave a little mischievous laugh and said : ` Why , my pretty maiden hardly looks happier than she did before , in spite of meeting her lover whenever she pleases . '
` He has grown tired of me , ' answered Tephany in a trembling voice , ` and he makes excuses to stay away .
Ah !
granny dear , it is not enough to be able to see him , I must be able to amuse him and to keep him with me .
He is so clever , you know .
Help me to be clever too . '
` Is that what you want ? '
cried the old woman .
` Well , take this feather and stick it in your hair , and you will be as wise as Solomon himself . '
Blushing with pleasure Tephany went home and stuck the feather into the blue ribbon which girls always wear in that part of the country .
In a moment she heard Denis whistling gaily , and as her aunt was safely counting her cabbages , she hurried out to meet him .
The young man was struck dumb by her talk .
There was nothing that she did not seem to know , and as for songs she not only could sing those from every part of Brittany , but could compose them herself .
Was this really the quiet girl who had been so anxious to learn all he could teach her , or was it somebody else ?
Perhaps she had gone suddenly mad , and there was an evil spirit inside her .
But in any case , night after night he came back , only to find her growing wiser and wiser .
Soon the neighbours whispered their surprise among themselves , for Tephany had not been able to resist the pleasure of putting the feather in her hair for some of the people who despised her for her poor clothes , and many were the jokes she made about them .
Of course they heard of her jests , and shook their heads saying : ` She is an ill-natured little cat , and the man that marries her will find that it is she who will hold the reins and drive the horse . '
It was not long before Denis began to agree with them , and as he always liked to be master wherever he went , he became afraid of Tephany 's sharp tongue , and instead of laughing as before when she made fun of other people he grew red and uncomfortable , thinking that his turn would come next .
So matters went on till one evening Denis told Tephany that he really could not stay a moment , as he had promised to go to a dance that was to be held in the next village .
Tephany 's face fell ; she had worked hard all day , and had been counting on a quiet hour with Denis .
She did her best to persuade him to remain with her , but he would not listen , and at last she grew angry .
` Oh , I know why you are so anxious not to miss the dance , ' she said ; ` it is because Aziliez of Pennenru will be there . '
Now Aziliez was the loveliest girl for miles round , and she and Denis had known each other from childhood .
` Oh yes , Aziliez will be there , ' answered Denis , who was quite pleased to see her jealous , ` and naturally one would go a long way to watch her dance . '
` Go then ! '
cried Tephany , and entering the house she slammed the door behind her .
Lonely and miserable she sat down by the fire and stared into the red embers .
Then , flinging the feather from her hair , she put her head on her hands , and sobbed passionately .
` What is the use of being clever when it is beauty that men want ?
That is what I ought to have asked for .
But it is too late , Denis will never come back . '
` Since you wish it so much you shall have beauty , ' said a voice at her side , and looking round she beheld the old woman leaning on her stick .
` Fasten this necklace round your neck , and as long as you wear it you will be the most beautiful woman in the world , ' continued the fairy .
With a little shriek of joy Tephany took the necklace , and snapping the clasp ran to the mirror which hung in the corner .
Ah , this time she was not afraid of Aziliez or of any other girl , for surely none could be as fair and white as she .
And with the sight of her face a thought came to her , and putting on hastily her best dress and her buckled shoes she hurried off to the dance .
On the way she met a beautiful carriage with a young man seated in it .
` What a lovely maiden ! '
he exclaimed , as Tephany approached .
` Why , there is not a girl in my own country that can be compared to her .
She , and no other , shall be my bride . '
The carriage was large and barred the narrow road , so Tephany was forced , much against her will , to remain where she was .
But she looked the young man full in the face as she answered : ` Go your way , noble lord , and let me go mine .
I am only a poor peasant girl , accustomed to milk , and make hay and spin . '
` Peasant you may be , but I will make you a great lady , ' said he , taking her hand and trying to lead her to the carriage . '
I do n't want to be a great lady , I only want to be the wife of Denis , ' she replied , throwing off his hand and running to the ditch which divided the road from the cornfield , where he hoped to hide .
Unluckily the young man guessed what she was doing , and signed to his attendants , who seized her and put her in the coach .
The door was banged , and the horses whipped up into a gallop .
At the end of an hour they arrived at a splendid castle , and Tephany , who would not move , was lifted out and carried into the hall , while a priest was sent for to perform the marriage ceremony .
The young man tried to win a smile from her by telling of all the beautiful things she should have as his wife , but Tephany did not listen to him , and looked about to see if there was any means by which she could escape .
It did not seem easy .
The three great doors were closely barred , and the one through which she had entered shut with a spring , but her feather was still in her hair , and by its aid she detected a crack in the wooden panelling , through which a streak of light could be dimly seen .
Touching the copper pin which fastened her dress , the girl sent every one in the hall to count the cabbages , while she herself passed through the little door , not knowing whither she was going .
By this time night had fallen , and Tephany was very tired .
Thankfully she found herself at the gate of a convent , and asked if she might stay there till morning .
But the portress answered roughly that it was no place for beggars , and bade her begone , so the poor girl dragged herself slowly along the road , till a light and the bark of a dog told her that she was near a farm .
In front of the house was a group of people ; two or three women and the sons of the farmer .
When their mother heard Tephany 's request to be given a bed the good wife 's heart softened , and she was just going to invite her inside , when the young men , whose heads were turned by the girl 's beauty , began to quarrel as to which should do most for her .
From words they came to blows , and the women , frightened at the disturbance , pelted Tephany with insulting names .
She quickly ran down the nearest path , hoping to escape them in the darkness of the trees , but in an instant she heard their footsteps behind her .
Wild with fear her legs trembled under her , when suddenly she bethought herself of her necklace .
With a violent effort she burst the clasp and flung it round the neck of a pig which was grunting in a ditch , and as she did so she heard the footsteps cease from pursuing her and run after the pig , for her charm had vanished .
On she went , scarcely knowing where she was going , till she found herself , to her surprise and joy , close to her aunt 's house .
For several days she felt so tired and unhappy that she could hardly get through her work , and to make matters worse Denis scarcely ever came near her .
` He was too busy , ' he said , ` and really it was only rich people who could afford to waste time in talking . '
As the days went on Tephany grew paler and paler , till everybody noticed it except her aunt .
The water-pot was almost too heavy for her now , but morning and evening she carried it to the spring , though the effort to lift it to her shoulder was often too much for her .
` How could I have been so foolish , ' she whispered to herself , when she went down as usual at sunset .
` It was not freedom to see Denis that I should have asked for , for he was soon weary of me , nor a quick tongue , for he was afraid of it , nor beauty , for that brought me nothing but trouble , but riches which make life easy both for oneself and others .
Ah !
if I only dared to beg this gift from the fairy , I should be wiser than before and know how to choose better . '
` Be satisfied , ' said the voice of the old woman , who seemed to be standing unseen at Tephany 's elbow .
` If you look in your right-hand pocket when you go home you will find a small box .
Rub your eyes with the ointment it contains , and you will see that you yourself contain a priceless treasure . '
Tephany did not in the least understand what she meant , but ran back to the farm as fast as she could , and began to fumble joyfully in her right-hand pocket .
Sure enough , there was the little box with the precious ointment .
She was in the act of rubbing her eyes with it when Barbaik Bourhis entered the room .
Ever since she had been obliged to leave her work and pass her time , she did not know why , in counting cabbages , everything had gone wrong , and she could not get a labourer to stay with her because of her bad temper .
When , therefore , she saw her niece standing quietly before her mirror , Barbaik broke out : ` So this is what you do when I am out in the fields !
Ah !
it is no wonder if the farm is ruined .
Are you not ashamed , girl , to behave so ? '
Tephany tried to stammer some excuse , but her aunt was half mad with rage , and a box on the ears was her only answer .
At this Tephany , hurt , bewildered and excited , could control herself no longer , and turning away burst into tears .
But what was her surprise when she saw that each tear-drop was a round and shining pearl .
Barbaik , who also beheld this marvel , uttered a cry of astonishment , and threw herself on her knees to pick them up from the floor .
She was still gathering them when the door opened and in came Denis .
` Pearls !
Are they really pearls ? '
he asked , falling on his knees also , and looking up at Tephany he perceived others still more beautiful rolling down the girl 's cheeks .
` Take care not to let any of the neighbours hear of it , Denis , ' said Barbaik .
` Of course you shall have your share , but nobody else shall get a single one .
Cry on , my dear , cry on , ' she continued to Tephany .
It is for your good as well as ours , ' and she held out her apron to catch them , and Denis his hat .
But Tephany could hardly bear any more .
She felt half choked at the sight of their greediness , and wanted to rush from the hall , and though Barbaik caught her arm to prevent this , and said all sorts of tender words which she thought would make the girl weep the more , Tephany with a violent effort forced back her tears , and wiped her eyes .
` Is she finished already ? '
cried Barbaik , in a tone of disappointment .
` Oh , try again , my dear .
Do you think it would do any good to beat her a little ? '
she added to Denis , who shook his head .
` That is enough for the first time .
I will go into the town and find out the value of each pearl . '
` Then I will go with you , ' said Barbaik , who never trusted anyone and was afraid of being cheated .
So the two went out , leaving Tephany behind them .
She sat quite still on her chair , her hands clasped tightly together , as if she was forcing something back .
At last she raised her eyes , which had been fixed on the ground , and beheld the fairy standing in a dark corner by the hearth , observing her with a mocking look .
The girl trembled and jumped up , then , taking the feather , the pin , and the box , she held them out to the old woman .
` Here they are , all of them , ' she cried ; ` they belong to you .
Let me never see them again , but I have learned the lesson that they taught me .
Others may have riches , beauty and wit , but as for me I desire nothing but to be the poor peasant girl I always was , working hard for those she loves . '
` Yes , you have learned your lesson , ' answered the fairy , ` and now you shall lead a peaceful life and marry the man you love .
For after all it was not yourself you thought of but him . '
Never again did Tephany see the old woman , but she forgave Denis for selling her tears , and in time he grew to be a good husband , who did his own share of work .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Groac ' h of the Isle of Lok In old times , when all kinds of wonderful things happened in Brittany , there lived in the village of Lanillis , a young man named Houarn Pogamm and a girl called Bellah Postik .
They were cousins , and as their mothers were great friends , and constantly in and out of each other 's houses , they had often been laid in the same cradle , and had played and fought over their games .
` When they are grown up they will marry , ' said the mothers ; but just as every one was beginning to think of wedding bells , the two mothers died , and the cousins , who had no money , went as servants in the same house .
This was better than being parted , of course , but not so good as having a little cottage of their own , where they could do as they liked , and soon they might have been heard bewailing to each other the hardness of their lots .
` If we could only manage to buy a cow and get a pig to fatten , ' grumbled Houarn , ' I would rent a bit of ground from the master , and then we could be married . '
` Yes , ' answered Bellah , with a deep sigh ; ` but we live in such hard times , and at the last fair the price of pigs had risen again . '
` We shall have long to wait , that is quite clear , ' replied Houarn , turning away to his work .
Whenever they met they repeated their grievances , and at length Houarn 's patience was exhausted , and one morning he came to Bellah and told her that he was going away to seek his fortune .
The girl was very unhappy as she listened to this , and felt sorry that she had not tried to make the best of things .
She implored Houarn not to leave her , but he would listen to nothing .
` The birds , ' he said , ` continue flying until they reach a field of corn , and the bees do not stop unless they find the honey-giving flowers , and why should a man have less sense than they ?
Like them , I shall seek till I get what I want -- that is , money to buy a cow and a pig to fatten .
And if you love me , Bellah , you wo n't attempt to hinder a plan which will hasten our marriage . '
The girl saw it was useless to say more , so she answered sadly : ` Well , go then , since you must .
But first I will divide with you all that my parents left me , ' and going to her room , she opened a small chest , and took from it a bell , a knife , and a little stick .
` This bell , ' she said , ` can be heard at any distance , however far , but it only rings to warn us that our friends are in great danger .
The knife frees all it touches from the spells that have been laid on them ; while the stick will carry you wherever you want to go .
I will give you the knife to guard you against the enchantments of wizards , and the bell to tell me of your perils .
The stick I shall keep for myself , so that I can fly to you if ever you have need of me . '
Then they cried for a little on each other 's necks , and Houarn started for the mountains .
But in those days , as in these , beggars abounded , and through every village he passed they followed Houarn in crowds , mistaking him for a gentleman , because there were no holes in his clothes .
` There is no fortune to be made here , ' he thought to himself ; ` it is a place for spending , and not earning .
I see I must go further , ' and he walked on to Pont-aven , a pretty little town built on the bank of a river .
He was sitting on a bench outside an inn , when he heard two men who were loading their mules talking about the Groac ' h of the island of Lok .
` What is a Groac ` h ? '
asked he . '
I have never come across one . '
And the men answered that it was the name given to the fairy that dwelt in the lake , and that she was rich -- oh !
richer than all the kings in the world put together .
Many had gone to the island to try and get possession of her treasures , but no one had ever come back .
As he listened Houarn 's mind was made up . '
I will go , and return too , ' he said to the muleteers .
They stared at him in astonishment , and besought him not to be so mad and to throw away his life in such a foolish manner ; but he only laughed , and answered that if they could tell him of any other way in which to procure a cow and a pig to fatten , he would think no more about it .
But the men did not know how this was to be done , and , shaking their heads over his obstinacy , left him to his fate .
So Houarn went down to the sea , and found a boatman who engaged to take him to the isle of Lok .
The island was large , and lying almost across it was a lake , with a narrow opening to the sea .
Houarn paid the boatman and sent him away , and then proceeded to walk round the lake .
At one end he perceived a small skiff , painted blue and shaped like a swan , lying under a clump of yellow broom .
As far as he could see , the swan 's head was tucked under its wing , and Houarn , who had never beheld a boat of the sort , went quickly towards it and stepped in , so as to examine it the better .
But no sooner was he on board than the swan woke suddenly up ; his head emerged from under his wing , his feet began to move in the water , and in another moment they were in the middle of the lake .
As soon as the young man had recovered from his surprise , he prepared to jump into the lake and swim to shore .
But the bird had guessed his intentions , and plunged beneath the water , carrying Houarn with him to the palace of the Groac ` h. Now , unless you have been under the sea and beheld all the wonders that lie there , you can never have an idea what the Groac ` h 's palace was like .
It was all made of shells , blue and green and pink and lilac and white , shading into each other till you could not tell where one colour ended and the other began .
The staircases were of crystal , and every separate stair sang like a woodland bird as you put your foot on it .
Round the palace were great gardens full of all the plants that grow in the sea , with diamonds for flowers .
In a large hall the Groac ' h was lying on a couch of gold .
The pink and white of her face reminded you of the shells of her palace , while her long black hair was intertwined with strings of coral , and her dress of green silk seemed formed out of the sea .
At the sight of her Houarn stopped , dazzled by her beauty .
` Come in , ' said the Groac ` h , rising to her feet .
` Strangers and handsome youths are always welcome here .
Do not be shy , but tell me how you found your way , and what you want . '
` My name is Houarn , ' he answered , ` Lanillis is my home , and I am trying to earn enough money to buy a little cow and a pig to fatten . '
` Well , you can easily get that , ' replied she ; ` it is nothing to worry about .
Come in and enjoy yourself . '
And she beckoned him to follow her into a second hall whose floors and walls were formed of pearls , while down the sides there were tables laden with fruit and wines of all kinds ; and as he ate and drank , the Groac ' h talked to him and told him how the treasures he saw came from shipwrecked vessels , and were brought to her palace by a magic current of water . '
I do not wonder , ' exclaimed Houarn , who now felt quite at home -- ' I do not wonder that the people on the earth have so much to say about you . '
` The rich are always envied . '
` For myself , ' he added , with a laugh , ' I only ask for the half of your wealth . '
` You can have it , if you will , Houarn , ' answered the fairy .
` What do you mean ? '
cried he .
` My husband , Korandon , is dead , ' she replied , ` and if you wish it , I will marry you . '
The young man gazed at her in surprise .
Could any one so rich and so beautiful really wish to be his wife ?
He looked at her again , and Bellah was forgotten as he answered : ' A man would be mad indeed to refuse such an offer .
I can only accept it with joy . '
` Then the sooner it is done the better , ' said the Groac ` h , and gave orders to her servants .
After that was finished , she begged Houarn to accompany her to a fish-pond at the bottom of the garden .
` Come lawyer , come miller , come tailor , come singer ! '
cried she , holding out a net of steel ; and at each summons a fish appeared and jumped into the net .
When it was full she went into a large kitchen and threw them all into a golden pot ; but above the bubbling of the water Houarn seemed to hear the whispering of little voices .
` Who is it whispering in the golden pot , Groac ` h ? '
he inquired at last .
` It is nothing but the noise of the wood sparkling , ' she answered ; but it did not sound the least like that to Houarn .
` There it is again , ' he said , after a short pause .
` The water is getting hot , and it makes the fish jump , ' she replied ; but soon the noise grew louder and like cries .
` What is it ? '
asked Houarn , beginning to feel uncomfortable .
` Just the crickets on the hearth , ' said she , and broke into a song which drowned the cries from the pot .
But though Houarn held his peace , he was not as happy as before .
Something seemed to have gone wrong , and then he suddenly remembered Bellah .
` Is it possible I can have forgotten her so soon ?
What a wretch I am ! '
he thought to himself ; and he remained apart and watched the Groac ' h while she emptied the fish into a plate , and bade him eat his dinner while she fetched wine from her cellar in a cave .
Houarn sat down and took out the knife which Bellah had given him , but as soon as the blade touched the fish the enchantment ceased , and four men stood before him .
` Houarn , save us , we entreat you , and save yourself too ! '
murmured they , not daring to raise their voices .
` Why , it must have been you who were crying out in the pot just now ! '
exclaimed Houarn .
` Yes , it was us , ' they answered .
` Like you , we came to the isle of Lok to seek our fortunes , and like you we consented to marry the Groac ` h , and no sooner was the ceremony over than she turned us into fishes , as she had done to all our forerunners , who are in the fish-pond still , where you will shortly join them . '
On hearing this Houarn leaped into the air , as if he already felt himself frizzling in the golden pot .
He rushed to the door , hoping to escape that way ; but the Groac ` h , who had heard everything , met him on the threshold .
Instantly she threw the steel net over his head , and the eyes of a little green frog peeped through the meshes .
` You shall go and play with the rest , ' she said , carrying him off to the fish-pond .
It was at this very moment that Bellah , who was skimming the milk in the farm dairy , heard the fairy bell tinkle violently .
At the sound she grew pale , for she knew it meant that Houarn was in danger ; and , hastily , changing the rough dress she wore for her work , she left the farm with the magic stick in her hand .
Her knees were trembling under her , but she ran as fast as she could to the cross roads , where she drove her stick into the ground , murmuring as she did so a verse her mother had taught her : Little staff of apple-tree , Over the earth and over the sea , Up in the air be guide to me , Everywhere to wander free , and immediately the stick became a smart little horse , with a rosette at each ear and a feather on his forehead .
He stood quite still while Bellah scrambled up , then he started off , his pace growing quicker and quicker , till at length the girl could hardly see the trees and houses as they flashed past .
But , rapid as the pace was , it was not rapid enough for Bellah , who stooped and said : ` The swallow is less swift than the wind , the wind is less swift than the lightning .
But you , my horse , if you love me , must be swifter than them all , for there is a part of my heart that suffers -- the best part of my heart that is in danger . '
And the horse heard her , and galloped like a straw carried along by a tempest till they reached the foot of a rock called the Leap of the Deer .
There he stopped , for no horse or mule that ever was born could climb that rock , and Bellah knew it , so she began to sing again : Horse of Leon , given to me , Over the earth and over the sea , Up in the air be guide to me , Everywhere to wander free , and when she had finished , the horse 's fore legs grew shorter and spread into wings , his hind legs became claws , feathers sprouted all over his body , and she sat on the back of a great bird , which bore her to the summit of the rock .
Here she found a nest made of clay and lined with dried moss , and in the centre a tiny man , black and wrinkled , who gave a cry of surprise at the sight of Bellah .
` Ah !
you are the pretty girl who was to come and save me ! '
` To save you ! '
repeated Bellah .
` But who are you , my little friend ? ' '
I am the husband of the Groac ' h of the isle of Lok , and it is owing to her that I am here . '
` But what are you doing in this nest ? ' '
I am sitting on six eggs of stone , and I shall not be set free till they are hatched . '
On hearing this Bellah began to laugh .
` Poor little cock ! '
she said , ` and how am I to deliver you ? '
` By delivering Houarn , who is in the power of the Groac ` h. ' ` Ah !
tell me how I can manage that , and if I have to walk round the whole of Brittany on my bended knees I will do it ! '
` Well , first you must dress yourself as a young man , and then go and seek the Groac ` h .
When you have found her you must contrive to get hold of the net of steel that hangs from her waist , and shut her up in it for ever . '
` But where am I to find a young man 's clothes ? '
asked she . '
I will show you , ' he replied , and as he spoke he pulled out three of his red hairs and blew them away , muttering something the while .
In the twinkling of an eye the four hairs changed into four tailors , of whom the first carried a cabbage , the second a pair of scissors , the third a needle , and the fourth an iron .
Without waiting for orders , they sat down in the nest and , crossing their legs comfortably , began to prepare the suit of clothes for Bellah .
With one of the leaves of the cabbage they made her a coat , and another served for a waistcoat ; but it took two for the wide breeches which were then in fashion .
The hat was cut from the heart of the cabbage , and a pair of shoes from the thick stem .
And when Bellah had put them all on you would have taken her for a gentleman dressed in green velvet , lined with white satin .
She thanked the little men gratefully , and after a few more instructions , jumped on the back of her great bird , and was borne away to the isle of Lok .
Once there , she bade him transform himself back into a stick , and with it in her hand she stepped into the blue boat , which conducted her to the palace of shells .
The Groac ' h seemed overjoyed to see her , and told her that never before had she beheld such a handsome young man .
Very soon she led her visitor into the great hall , where wine and fruit were always waiting , and on the table lay the magic knife , left there by Houarn .
Unseen by the Groac ` h , Bellah hid it in a pocket of her green coat , and then followed her hostess into the garden , and to the pond which contained the fish , their sides shining with a thousand different colours .
` Oh !
what beautiful , beautiful creatures ! '
said she .
` I 'm sure I should never be tired of watching them . '
And she sat down on the bank , with her elbows on her knees and her chin in her hands , her eyes fixed on the fishes as they flashed past .
` Would you not like to stay here always ? '
asked the Groac ` h ; and Bellah answered that she desired nothing better .
` Then you have only to marry me , ' said the Groac ` h. ` Oh !
do n't say no , for I have fallen deeply in love with you . '
` Well , I wo n't say `` No , '' ' replied Bellah , with a laugh , ` but you must promise first to let me catch one of those lovely fish in your net . '
` It is not so easy as it looks , ' rejoined the Groac ` h , smiling , ` but take it , and try your luck . '
Bellah took the net which the Groac ' h held out , and , turning rapidly , flung it over the witch 's head .
` Become in body what you are in soul ! '
cried she , and in an instant the lovely fairy of the sea was a toad , horrible to look upon .
She struggled hard to tear the net asunder , but it was no use .
Bellah only drew it the tighter , and , flinging the sorceress into a pit , she rolled a great stone across the mouth , and left her .
As she drew near the pond she saw a great procession of fishes advancing to meet her , crying in hoarse tones : ` This is our lord and master , who has saved us from the net of steel and the pot of gold ! '
` And who will restore you to your proper shapes , ' said Bellah , drawing the knife from her pocket .
But just as she was going to touch the foremost fish , her eyes fell on a green frog on his knees beside her , his little paws crossed over his little heart .
Bellah felt as if fingers were tightening round her throat , but she managed to cry : ` Is this you , my Houarn ?
Is this you ? '
` It is I , ' croaked the little frog ; and as the knife touched him he was a man again , and , springing up , he clasped her in his arms .
` But we must not forget the others , ' she said at last , and began to transform the fishes to their proper shapes .
There were so many of them that it took quite a long time .
Just as she had finished there arrived the little dwarf from the Deer 's Leap in a car drawn by six cockchafers , which once had been the six stone eggs .
` Here I am ! '
he exclaimed .
` You have broken the spell that held me , and now come and get your reward , ' and , dismounting from his chariot , he led them down into the caves filled with gold and jewels , and bade Bellah and Houarn take as much as they wanted .
When their pockets were full , Bellah ordered her stick to become a winged carriage , large enough to bear them and the men they had rescued back to Lanillis .
There they were married the next day , but instead of setting up housekeeping with the little cow and pig to fatten that they had so long wished for , they were able to buy lands for miles round for themselves , and gave each man who had been delivered from the Groac ' h a small farm , where he lived happily to the end of his days .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Escape of the Mouse Manawyddan the prince and his friend Pryderi were wanderers , for the brother of Manawyddan had been slain , and his throne taken from him .
Very sorrowful was Manawyddan , but Pryderi was stout of heart , and bade him be of good cheer , as he knew a way out of his trouble .
` And what may that be ? '
asked Manawyddan .
` It is that thou marry my mother Rhiannon and become lord of the fair lands that I will give her for dowry .
Never did any lady have more wit than she , and in her youth none was more lovely ; even yet she is good to look upon . '
` Thou art the best friend that ever a man had , ' said Manawyddan .
` Let us go now to seek Rhiannon , and the lands where she dwells . '
Then they set forth , but the news of their coming ran swifter still , and Rhiannon and Kieva , wife of Pryderi , made haste to prepare a feast for them .
And Manawyddan found that Pryderi had spoken the truth concerning his mother , and asked if she would take him for her husband .
Right gladly did she consent , and without delay they were married , and rode away to the hunt , Rhiannon and Manawyddan , Kieva and Pryderi , and they would not be parted from each other by night or by day , so great was the love between them .
One day , when they were returned , they were sitting out in a green place , and suddenly the crash of thunder struck loudly on their ears , and a wall of mist fell between them , so that they were hidden one from the other .
Trembling they sat till the darkness fled and the light shone again upon them , but in the place where they were wont to see cattle , and herds , and dwellings , they beheld neither house nor beast , nor man nor smoke ; neither was any one remaining in the green place save these four only .
` Whither have they gone , and my host also ? '
cried Manawyddan , and they searched the hall , and there was no man , and the castle , and there was none , and in the dwellings that were left was nothing save wild beasts .
For a year these four fed on the meat that Manawyddan and Pryderi killed out hunting , and the honey of the bees that sucked the mountain heather .
For a time they desired nothing more , but when the next year began they grew weary .
` We can not spend our lives thus , ' said Manawyddan at last , ` let us go into England and learn some trade by which we may live . '
So they left Wales , and went to Hereford , and there they made saddles , while Manawyddan fashioned blue enamel ornaments to put on their trappings .
And so greatly did the townsfolk love these saddles , that no others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford , till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions .
When Pryderi heard of it , he was very wroth , and wished to stay and fight .
But the counsels of Manawyddan prevailed , and they moved by night to another city .
` What craft shall we follow ? '
asked Pryderi .
` We will make shields , ' answered Manawyddan .
` But do we know anything of that craft ? '
answered Pryderi .
` We will try it , ' said Manawyddan , and they began to make shields , and fashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen ; and these likewise they enamelled .
And so greatly did they prosper that no man in the town bought a shield except they had made it , till at length the shield-makers banded together as the saddlers had done , and resolved to slay them .
But of this they had warning , and by night betook themselves to another town .
` Let us take to making shoes , ' said Manawyddan , ` for there are not any among the shoemakers bold enough to fight us . ' '
I know nothing of making shoes , ' answered Pryderi , who in truth despised so peaceful a craft .
` But I know , ' replied Manawyddan , ` and I will teach thee to stitch .
We will buy the leather ready dressed , and will make the shoes from it .
Then straightway he sought the town for the best leather , and for a goldsmith to fashion the clasps , and he himself watched till it was done , so that he might learn for himself .
Soon he became known as ` The Maker of Gold Shoes , ' and prospered so greatly , that as long as one could be bought from him not a shoe was purchased from the shoemakers of the town .
And the craftsmen were wroth , and banded together to slay them .
` Pryderi , ' said Manawyddan , when he had received news of it , ` we will not remain in England any longer .
Let us set forth to Dyved . '
So they journeyed until they came to their lands at Narberth .
There they gathered their dogs round them , and hunted for a year as before .
After that a strange thing happened .
One morning Pryderi and Manawyddan rose up to hunt , and loosened their dogs , which ran before them , till they came to a small bush .
At the bush , the dogs shrank away as if frightened , and returned to their masters , their hair brisling on their backs .
` We must see what is in that bush , ' said Pryderi , and what was in it was a boar , with a skin as white as the snow on the mountains .
And he came out , and made a stand as the dogs rushed on him , driven on by the men .
Long he stood at bay ; then at last he betook himself to flight , and fled to a castle which was newly built , in a place where no building had ever been known .
Into the castle he ran , and the dogs after him , and long though their masters looked and listened , they neither saw nor heard aught concerning dogs or boar . '
I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs , ' said Pryderi at last .
` Truly , ' answered Manawyddan , ` thou wouldst do unwisely , for whosoever has cast a spell over this land has set this castle here . ' '
I can not give up my dogs , ' replied Pryderi , and to the castle he went .
But within was neither man nor beast ; neither boar nor dogs , but only a fountain with marble round it , and on the edge a golden bowl , richly wrought , which pleased Pryderi greatly .
In a moment he forgot about his dogs , and went up to the bowl and took hold of it , and his hands stuck to the bowl , and his feet to the marble slab , and despair took possession of him .
Till the close of day Manawyddan waited for him , and when the sun was fast sinking , he went home , thinking that he had strayed far .
` Where are thy friend and thy dogs ? '
said Rhiannon , and he told her what had befallen Pryderi . '
A good friend hast thou lost , ' answered Rhiannon , and she went up to the castle and through the gate , which was open .
There , in the centre of the courtyard , she beheld Pryderi standing , and hastened towards him .
` What dost thou here ? '
she asked , laying her hand on the bowl , and as she spoke she too stuck fast , and was not able to utter a word .
Then thunder was heard and a veil of darkness descended upon them , and the castle vanished and they with it .
When Kieva , the wife of Pryderi , found that neither her husband nor his mother returned to her , she was in such sorrow that she cared not whether she lived or died .
Manawyddan was grieved also in his heart , and said to her : ` It is not fitting that we should stay here , for he have lost our dogs and can not get food .
Let us go into England -- it is easier for us to live there . '
So they set forth .
` What craft wilt thou follow ? '
asked Kieva as they went along . '
I shall make shoes as once I did , ' replied he ; and he got all the finest leather in the town and caused gilded clasps to be made for the shoes , till everyone flocked to buy , and all the shoemakers in the town were idle and banded together in anger to kill him .
But luckily Manawyddan got word of it , and he and Kieva left the town one night and proceeded to Narberth , taking with him a sheaf of wheat , which he sowed in three plots of ground .
And while the wheat was growing up , he hunted and fished , and they had food enough and to spare .
Thus the months passed until the harvest ; and one evening Manawyddan visited the furthest of his fields of wheat ; and saw that it was ripe .
` To-morrow I will reap this , ' said he ; but on the morrow when he went to reap the wheat he found nothing but the bare straw .
Filled with dismay he hastened to the second field , and there the corn was ripe and golden .
` To-morrow I will reap this , ' he said , but on the morrow the ears had gone , and there was nothing but the bare straw .
` Well , there is still one field left , ' he said , and when he looked at it , it was still fairer than the other two .
` To-night I will watch here , ' thought he , ` for whosoever carried off the other corn will in like manner take this , and I will know who it is . '
So he hid himself and waited .
The hours slid by , and all was still , so still that Manawyddan well-nigh dropped asleep .
But at midnight there arose the loudest tumult in the world , and peeping out he beheld a mighty host of mice , which could neither be numbered nor measured .
Each mouse climbed up a straw till it bent down with its weight , and then it bit off one of the ears , and carried it away , and there was not one of the straws that had not got a mouse to it .
Full of wrath he rushed at the mice , but he could no more come up with them than if they had been gnats , or birds of the air , save one only which lingered behind the rest , and this mouse Manawyddan came up with .
Stooping down he seized it by the tail , and put it in his glove , and tied a piece of string across the opening of the glove , so that the mouse could not escape .
When he entered the hall where Kieva was sitting , he lighted a fire , and hung the glove up on a peg .
` What hast thou there ? '
asked she . '
A thief , ' he answered , ` that I caught robbing me . '
` What kind of a thief may it be which thou couldst put in thy glove ? '
said Kieva .
` That I will tell thee , ' he replied , and then he showed her how his fields of corn had been wasted , and how he had watched for the mice .
` And one was less nimble than the rest , and is now in my glove .
To-morrow I will hang it , and I only wish I had them all . '
` It is a marvel , truly , ' said she , ` yet it would be unseemly for a man of thy dignity to hang a reptile such as this .
Do not meddle with it , but let it go . '
` Woe betide me , ' he cried , ` if I would not hang them all if I could catch them , and such as I have I will hang . '
` Verily , ' said she , ` there is no reason I should succour this reptile , except to prevent discredit unto thee . '
` If I knew any cause that I should succour it , I would take thy counsel , ' answered Manawyddan , ` but as I know of none , I am minded to destroy it . '
` Do so then , ' said Kieva .
So he went up a hill and set up two forks on the top , and while he was doing this he saw a scholar coming towards him , whose clothes were tattered .
Now it was seven years since Manawyddan had seen man or beast in that place , and the sight amazed him .
` Good day to thee , my lord , ' said the scholar .
` Good greeting to thee , scholar .
Whence dost thou come ? '
` From singing in England ; but wherefore dost thou ask ? '
` Because for seven years no man hath visited this place . ' '
I wander where I will , ' answered the scholar .
` And what work art thou upon ? ' '
I am about to hang a thief that I caught robbing me ! '
` What manner of thief is that ? '
inquired the scholar . '
I see a creature in thy hand like upon a mouse , and ill does it become a man of thy rank to touch a reptile like this .
Let it go free . ' '
I will not let it go free , ' cried Manawyddan . '
I caught it robbing me , and it shall suffer the doom of a thief . '
` Lord ! '
said the scholar , ` sooner than see a man like thee at such a work , I would give thee a pound which I have received as alms to let it go free . ' '
I will not let it go free , neither will I sell it . '
` As thou wilt , lord , ' answered the scholar , and he went his way .
Manawyddan was placing the cross-beam on the two forked sticks , where the mouse was to hang , when a priest rode past .
` Good-day to thee , lord ; and what art thou doing ? ' '
I am hanging a thief that I caught robbing me . '
` What manner of thief , lord ? ' '
A creature in the form of a mouse .
It has been robbing me , and it shall suffer the doom of a thief . '
` Lord , ' said the priest , ` sooner than see thee touch this reptile , I would purchase its freedom . ' '
I will neither sell it nor set it free . '
` It is true that a mouse is worth nothing , but rather than see thee defile thyself with touching such a reptile as this , I will give thee three pounds for it . ' '
I will not take any price for it .
It shall be hanged as it deserves . '
` Willingly , my lord , if it is thy pleasure . '
And the priest went his way .
Then Manawyddan noosed the string about the mouse 's neck , and was about to draw it tight when a bishop , with a great following and horses bearing huge packs , came by .
` What work art thou upon ? '
asked the bishop , drawing rein .
` Hanging a thief that I caught robbing me . '
` But is not that a mouse that I see in thine hand ? '
asked the bishop .
` Yes ; that is the thief , ' answered Manawyddan .
` Well , since I have come at the doom of this reptile , I will ransom it of thee for seven pounds , rather than see a man of thy rank touch it .
Loose it , and let it go . ' '
I will not let it loose . ' '
I will give thee four and twenty pounds to set it free , ' said the bishop . '
I will not set it free for as much again . '
` If thou wilt not set it free for this , I will give thee all the horses thou seest and the seven loads of baggage . ' '
I will not set it free . '
` Then tell me at what price thou wilt loose it , and I will give it . '
` The spell must be taken off Rhiannon and Pryderi , ' said Manawyddan .
` That shall be done . '
` But not yet will I loose the mouse .
The charm that has been cast over all my lands must be taken off likewise . '
` This shall be done also . '
` But not yet will I loose the mouse till I know who she is . '
` She is my wife , ' answered the bishop .
` And wherefore came she to me ? '
asked Manawyddan .
` To despoil thee , ' replied the bishop , ` for it is I who cast the charm over thy lands , to avenge Gwawl the son of Clud my friend .
And it was I who threw the spell upon Pryderi to avenge Gwawl for the trick that had been played on him in the game of Badger in the Bag .
And not only was I wroth , but my people likewise , and when it was known that thou wast come to dwell in the land , they besought me much to change them into mice , that they might eat thy corn .
The first and the second nights it was the men of my own house that destroyed thy two fields , but on the third night my wife and her ladies came to me and begged me to change them also into the shape of mice , that they might take part in avenging Gwawl .
Therefore I changed them .
Yet had she not been ill and slow of foot , thou couldst not have overtaken her .
Still , since she was caught , I will restore thee Pryderi and Rhiannon , and will take the charm from off thy lands .
I have told thee who she is ; so now set her free . ' '
I will not set her free , ' answered Manawyddan , 'till thou swear that no vengeance shall be taken for his , either upon Pryderi , or upon Rhiannon , or on me . ' '
I will grant thee this boon ; and thou hast done wisely to ask it , for on thy head would have lit all the trouble .
Set now my wife free . ' '
I will not set her free till Pryderi and Rhiannon are with me . '
` Behold , here they come , ' said the bishop .
Then Manawyddan held out his hands and greeted Pryderi and Rhiannon , and they seated themselves joyfully on the grass .
` Ah , lord , hast thou not received all thou didst ask ? '
said the bishop .
` Set now my wife free ! '
` That I will gladly , ' answered Manawyddan , unloosing the cord from her neck , and as he did so the bishop struck her with his staff , and she turned into a young woman , the fairest that ever was seen .
` Look around upon thy land , ' said he , ` and thou wilt see it all tilled and peopled , as it was long ago . '
And Manawyddan looked , and saw corn growing in the fields , and cows and sheep grazing on the hill-side , and huts for the people to dwell in .
And he was satisfied in his soul , but one more question he put to the bishop .
` What spell didst thou lay upon Pryderi and Rhiannon ? '
` Pryderi has had the knockers of the gate of my palace hung about him , and Rhiannon has carried the collars of my asses around her neck , ' said the bishop with a smile .
From the ` Mabinogion . '
The Believing Husbands Once upon a time there dwelt in the land of Erin a young man who was seeking a wife , and of all the maidens round about none pleased him as well as the only daughter of a farmer .
The girl was willing and the father was willing , and very soon they were married and went to live at the farm .
By and bye the season came when they must cut the peats and pile them up to dry , so that they might have fires in the winter .
So on a fine day the girl and her husband , and the father and his wife all went out upon the moor .
They worked hard for many hours , and at length grew hungry , so the young woman was sent home to bring them food , and also to give the horses their dinner .
When she went into the stables , she suddenly saw the heavy pack-saddle of the speckled mare just over her head , and she jumped and said to herself : ` Suppose that pack-saddle were to fall and kill me , how dreadful it would be ! '
and she sat down just under the pack-saddle she was so much afraid of , and began to cry .
Now the others out on the moor grew hungrier and hungrier .
` What can have become of her ? '
asked they , and at length the mother declared that she would wait no longer , and must go and see what had happened .
As the bride was nowhere in the kitchen or the dairy , the old woman went into the stable , where she found her daughter weeping bitterly .
` What is the matter , my dove ? '
and the girl answered , between her sobs : ` When I came in and saw the pack-saddle over my head , I thought how dreadful it would be if it fell and killed me , ' and she cried louder than before .
The old woman struck her hands together : ` Ah , to think of it !
if that were to be , what should I do ? '
and she sat down by her daughter , and they both wrung their hands and let their tears flow .
` Something strange must have occurred , ' exclaimed the old farmer on the moor , who by this time was not only hungry , but cross . '
I must go after them . '
And he went and found them in the stable .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he .
` Oh ! '
replied his wife , ` when our daughter came home , did she not see the pack-saddle over her head , and she thought how dreadful it would be if it were to fall and kill her . '
` Ah , to think of it ! '
exclaimed he , striking his hands together , and he sat down beside them and wept too .
As soon as night fell the young man returned full of hunger , and there they were , all crying together in the stable .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he .
` When thy wife came home , ' answered the farmer , ` she saw the pack-saddle over her head , and she thought how dreadful it would be if it were to fall and kill her . '
` Well , but it did n't fall , ' replied the young man , and he went off to the kitchen to get some supper , leaving them to cry as long as they liked .
The next morning he got up with the sun , and said to the old man and to the old woman and to his wife : ` Farewell : my foot shall not return to the house till I have found other three people as silly as you , ' and he walked away till he came to the town , and seeing the door of a cottage standing open wide , he entered .
No man was present , but only some women spinning at their wheels .
` You do not belong to this town , ' said he .
` You speak truth , ' they answered , ` nor you either ? ' '
I do not , ' replied he , ` but is it a good place to live in ? '
The women looked at each other .
` The men of the town are so silly that we can make them believe anything we please , ' said they .
` Well , here is a gold ring , ' replied he , ` and I will give it to the one amongst you who can make her husband believe the most impossible thing , ' and he left them .
As soon as the first husband came home his wife said to him : ` Thou art sick ! '
` Am I ? '
asked he .
` Yes , thou art , ' she answered ; ` take off thy clothes and lie down . '
So he did , and when he was in his bed his wife went to him and said : ` Thou art dead . '
` Oh , am I ? '
asked he .
` Thou art , ' said she ; ` shut thine eyes and stir neither hand nor foot . '
And dead he felt sure he was .
Soon the second man came home , and his wife said to him : ` You are not my husband ! '
` Oh , am I not ? '
asked he .
` No , it is not you , ' answered she , so he went away and slept in the wood .
When the third man arrived his wife gave him his supper , and after that he went to bed , just as usual .
The next morning a boy knocked at the door , bidding him attend the burial of the man who was dead , and he was just going to get up when his wife stopped him .
` Time enough , ' said she , and he lay still till he heard the funeral passing the window .
` Now rise , and be quick , ' called the wife , and the man jumped out of bed in a great hurry , and began to look about him .
` Why , where are my clothes ? '
asked he .
` Silly that you are , they are on your back , of course , ' answered the woman .
` Are they ? '
said he .
` They are , ' said she , ` and make haste lest the burying be ended before you get there . '
Then off he went , running hard , and when the mourners saw a man coming towards them with nothing on but his nightshirt , they forgot in their fright what they were there for , and fled to hide themselves .
And the naked man stood alone at the head of the coffin .
Very soon a man came out of the wood and spoke to him .
` Do you know me ? '
` Not I , ' answered the naked man . '
I do not know you . '
` But why are you naked ? '
asked the first man .
` Am I naked ?
My wife told me that I had all my clothes on , ' answered he .
` And my wife told me that I myself was dead , ' said the man in the coffin .
But at the sound of his voice the two men were so terrified that they ran straight home , and the man in the coffin got up and followed them , and it was his wife that gained the gold ring , as he had been sillier than the other two .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Hoodie-Crow .
Once there lived a farmer who had three daughters , and good useful girls they were , up with the sun , and doing all the work of the house .
One morning they all ran down to the river to wash their clothes , when a hoodie came round and sat on a tree close by .
` Wilt thou wed me , thou farmer 's daughter ? '
he said to the eldest .
` Indeed I wo n't wed thee , ' she answered , ` an ugly brute is the hoodie . '
And the bird , much offended , spread his wings and flew away .
But the following day he came back again , and said to the second girl : ` Wilt thou wed me , farmer 's daughter ? '
` Indeed I will not , ' answered she , ` an ugly brute is the hoodie . '
And the hoodie was more angry than before , and went away in a rage .
However , after a night 's rest he was in a better temper , and thought that he might be more lucky the third time , so back he went to the old place .
` Wilt thou wed me , farmer 's daughter ? '
he said to the youngest .
` Indeed I will wed thee ; a pretty creature is the hoodie , ' answered she , and on the morrow they were married . '
I have something to ask thee , ' said the hoodie when they were far away in his own house .
` Wouldst thou rather I should be a hoodie by day and a man by night , or a man by day and a hoodie by night ? '
The girl was surprised at his words , for she did not know that he could be anything but a hoodie at all times .
Still she said nothing of this , and only replied , ' I would rather thou wert a man by day and a hoodie by night , ' And so he was ; and a handsomer man or a more beautiful hoodie never was seen .
The girl loved them both , and never wished for things to be different .
By and bye they had a son , and very pleased they both were .
But in the night soft music was heard stealing close towards the house , and every man slept , and the mother slept also .
When they woke again it was morning , and the baby was gone .
High and low they looked for it , but nowhere could they find it , and the farmer , who had come to see his daughter , was greatly grieved , as he feared it might be thought that he had stolen it , because he did not want the hoodie for a son-in-law .
The next year the hoodie 's wife had another son , and this time a watch was set at every door .
But it was no use .
In vain they determined that , come what might , they would not close their eyes ; at the first note of music they all fell asleep , and when the farmer arrived in the morning to see his grandson , he found them all weeping , for while they had slept the baby had vanished .
Well , the next year it all happened again , and the hoodie 's wife was so unhappy that her husband resolved to take her away to another house he had , and her sisters with her for company .
So they set out in a coach which was big enough to hold them , and had not gone very far when the hoodie suddenly said : ` You are sure you have not forgotten anything ? ' '
I have forgotten my coarse comb , ' answered the wife , feeling in her pocket , and as she spoke the coach changed into a withered faggot , and the man became a hoodie again , and flew away .
The two sisters returned home , but the wife followed the hoodie .
Sometimes she would see him on a hill-top , and then would hasten after him , hoping to catch him .
But by the time she had got to the top of the hill , he would be in the valley on the other side .
When night came , and she was tired , she looked about for some place to rest , and glad she was to see a little house full of light straight in front of her , and she hurried towards it as fast as she could .
At the door stood a little boy , and the sight of him filled her heart with pleasure , she did not know why .
A woman came out , and bade her welcome , and set before her food , and gave her a soft bed to lie on .
And the hoodie 's wife lay down , and so tired was she , that it seemed to her but a moment before the sun rose , and she awoke again .
From hill to hill she went after the hoodie , and sometimes she saw him on the top ; but when she got to the top , he had flown into the valley , and when she reached the valley he was on the top of another hill -- and so it happened till night came round again .
Then she looked round for some place to rest in , and she beheld a little house of light before her , and fast she hurried towards it .
At the door stood a little boy , and her heart was filled with pleasure at the sight of him , she did not know why .
After that a woman bade her enter , and set food before her , and gave her a soft bed to lie in .
And when the sun rose she got up , and left the house , in search of the hoodie .
This day everything befell as on the two other days , but when she reached the small house , the woman bade her keep awake , and if the hoodie flew into the room , to try to seize him .
But the wife had walked far , and was very tired , and strive as she would , she fell sound asleep .
Many hours she slept , and the hoodie entered through a window , and let fall a ring on her hand .
The girl awoke with a start , and leant forward to grasp him , but he was already flying off , and she only seized a feather from his wing .
And when dawn came , she got up and told the woman .
` He has gone over the hill of poison , ' said she , ` and there you can not follow him without horse-shoes on your hands and feet .
But I will help you .
Put on this suit of men 's clothes , and go down this road till you come to the smithy , and there you can learn to make horse-shoes for yourself . '
The girl thanked her , and put on the cloths and went down the road to do her bidding .
So hard did she work , that in a few days she was able to make the horse-shoes .
Early one morning she set out for the hill of poison .
On her hands and feet she went , but even with the horse-shoes on she had to be very careful not to stumble , lest some poisoned thorns should enter into her flesh , and she should die .
But when at last she was over , it was only to hear that her husband was to be married that day to the daughter of a great lord .
Now there was to be a race in the town , and everyone meant to be there , except the stranger who had come over the hill of poison -- everyone , that is , but the cook , who was to make the bridal supper .
Greatly he loved races , and sore was his heart to think that one should be run without his seeing it , so when he beheld a woman whom he did not know coming along the street , hope sprang up in him .
` Will you cook the wedding feast in place of me ? '
he said , ` and I will pay you well when I return from the race . '
Gladly she agreed , and cooked the feast in a kitchen that looked into the great hall , where the company were to eat it .
After that she watched the seat where the bridegroom was sitting , and taking a plateful of the broth , she dropped the ring and the feather into it , and set if herself before him .
With the first spoonful he took up the ring , and a thrill ran through him ; in the second he beheld the feather and rose from his chair .
` Who has cooked this feast ? '
asked he , and the real cook , who had come back from the race , was brought before him .
` He may be the cook , but he did not cook this feast , ' said the bridegroom , and then inquiry was made , and the girl was summoned to the great hall .
` That is my married wife , ' he declared , ` and no one else will I have , ' and at that very moment the spells fell off him , and never more would he be a hoodie .
Happy indeed were they to be together again , and little did they mind that the hill of poison took long to cross , for she had to go some way forwards , and then throw the horse-shoes back for him to put on .
Still , at last they were over , and they went back the way she had come , and stopped at the three houses in order to take their little sons to their own home .
But the story never says who had stolen them , nor what the coarse comb had to do with it .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Brownie of the Lake Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou .
You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or more contented , for he had a large farm , plenty of money , and above all , a daughter called Barbaik , the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side .
When she appeared on holidays in her embroidered cap , five petticoats , each one a little shorter than the other , and shoes with silver buckles , the women were all filled with envy , but little cared Barbaik what they might whisper behind her back as long as she knew that her clothes were finer than anyone else 's and that she had more partners than any other girl .
Now amongst all the young men who wanted to marry Barbaik , the one whose heart was most set on her was her father 's head man , but as his manners were rough and he was exceedingly ugly she would have nothing to say to him , and , what was worse , often made fun of him with the rest .
Jegu , for that was his name , of course heard of this , and it made him very unhappy .
Still he would not leave the farm , and look for work elsewhere , as he might have done , for then he would never see Barbaik at all , and what was life worth to him without that ?
One evening he was bringing back his horses from the fields , and stopped at a little lake on the way home to let them drink .
He was tired with a long day 's work , and stood with his hand on the mane of one of the animals , waiting till they had done , and thinking all the while of Barbaik , when a voice came out of the gorse close by .
` What is the matter , Jegu ?
You must n't despair yet . '
The young man glanced up in surprise , and asked who was there .
` It is I , the brownie of the lake , ' replied the voice .
` But where are you ? '
inquired Jegu .
` Look close , and you will see me among the reeds in the form of a little green frog .
I can take , ' he added proudly , ` any shape I choose , and even , which is much harder , be invisible if I want to . '
` Then show yourself to me in the shape in which your family generally appear , ' replied Jegu .
` Certainly , if you wish , ' and the frog jumped on the back of one of the horses , and changed into a little dwarf , all dressed in green .
This transformation rather frightened Jegu , but the brownie bade him have no fears , for he would not do him any harm ; indeed , he hoped that Jegu might find him of some use .
` But why should you take all this interest in me ? '
asked the peasant suspiciously .
` Because of a service you did me last winter , which I have never forgotten , ' answered the little fellow .
` You know , I am sure , that the korigans -LSB- FN # 3 : The spiteful fairies . -RSB-
who dwell in the White Corn country have declared war on my people , because they say that they are the friends of man .
We were therefore obliged to take refuge in distant lands , and to hide ourselves at first under different animal shapes .
Since that time , partly from habit and partly to amuse ourselves , we have continued to transform ourselves , and it was in this way that I got to know you . '
` How ? '
exclaimed Jegu , filled with astonishment .
` Do you remember when you were digging in the field near the river , three months ago , you found a robin redbreast caught in a net ?
` Yes , ' answered Jegu , ' I remember it very well , and I opened the net and let him go . '
` Well , I was that robin redbreast , and ever since I have vowed to be your friend , and as you want to marry Barbaik , I will prove the truth of what I say by helping you to do so . '
` Ah !
my little brownie , if you can do that , there is nothing I wo n't give you , except my soul . '
` Then let me alone , ' rejoined the dwarf , ` and I promise you that in a very few months you shall be master of the farm and of Barbaik . '
` But how are you going to do it ? '
exclaimed Jegu wonderingly .
` That is my affair .
Perhaps I may tell you later .
Meanwhile you just eat and sleep , and do n't worry yourself about anything . '
Jegu declared that nothing could be easier , and then taking off his hat , he thanked the dwarf heartily , and led his horses back to the farm .
Next morning was a holiday , and Barbaik was awake earlier than usual , as she wished to get through her work as soon as possible , and be ready to start for a dance which was to be held some distance off .
She went first to the cow-house , which it was her duty to keep clean , but to her amazement she found fresh straw put down , the racks filled with hay , the cows milked , and the pails standing neatly in a row .
` Of course , Jegu must have done this in the hope of my giving him a dance , ' she thought to herself , and when she met him outside the door she stopped and thanked him for his help .
To be sure , Jegu only replied roughly that he did n't know what she was talking about , but this answer made her feel all the more certain that it was he and nobody else .
The same thing took place every day , and never had the cow-house been so clean nor the cows so fat .
Morning and evening Barbaik found her earthen pots full of milk and a pound of butter freshly churned , ornamented with leaves .
At the end of a few weeks she grew so used to this state of affairs that she only got up just in time to prepare breakfast .
Soon even this grew to be unnecessary , for a day arrived when , coming downstairs , she discovered that the house was swept , the furniture polished , the fire lit , and the food ready , so that she had nothing to do except to ring the great bell which summoned the labourers from the fields to come and eat it .
This , also , she thought was the work of Jegu , and she could not help feeling that a husband of this sort would be very useful to a girl who liked to lie in bed and to amuse herself .
Indeed , Barbaik had only to express a wish for it to be satisfied .
If the wind was cold or the sun was hot and she was afraid to go out lest her complexion should be spoilt , she need only to run down to the spring close by and say softly , ' I should like my churns to be full , and my wet linen to be stretched on the hedge to dry , ' and she need never give another thought to the matter .
If she found the rye bread too hard to bake , or the oven taking too long to heat , she just murmured , ' I should like to see my six loaves on the shelf above the bread box , ' and two hours after there they were .
If she was too lazy to walk all the way to market along a dirty road , she would say out loud the night before , ` Why am I not already back from Morlaix with my milk pot empty , my butter bowl inside it , a pound of wild cherries on my wooden plate , and the money I have gained in my apron pocket ? '
and in the morning when she got up , lo and behold !
there were standing at the foot of her bed the empty milk pot with the butter bowl inside , the black cherries on the wooden plate , and six new pieces of silver in the pocket of her apron .
And she believed that all this was owing to Jegu , and she could no longer do without him , even in her thoughts .
When things had reached this pass , the brownie told the young man that he had better ask Barbaik to marry him , and this time the girl did not turn rudely away , but listened patiently to the end .
In her eyes he was as ugly and awkward as ever , but he would certainly make a most useful husband , and she could sleep every morning till breakfast time , just like a young lady , and as for the rest of the day , it would not be half long enough for all she meant to do .
She would wear the beautiful dresses that came when she wished for them , and visit her neighbours , who would be dying of envy all the while , and she would be able to dance as much as she wished .
Jegu would always be there to work for her and save for her , and watch over her .
So , like a well-brought-up girl , Barbaik answered that it should be as her father pleased , knowing quite well that old Riou had often said that after he was dead there was no one so capable of carrying on the farm .
The marriage took place the following month , and a few days later the old man died quite suddenly .
Now Jegu had everything to see to himself , and somehow it did not seem so easy as when the farmer was alive .
But once more the brownie stepped in , and was better than ten labourers .
It was he who ploughed and sowed and reaped , and if , as happened , occasionally , it was needful to get the work done quickly , the brownie called in some of his friends , and as soon as it was light a host of little dwarfs might have been seen in the fields , busy with hoe , fork or sickle .
But by the time the people were about all was finished , and the little fellows had disappeared .
And all the payment the brownie ever asked for was a bowl of broth .
From the very day of her marriage Barbaik had noted with surprise and rage that things ceased to be done for her as they had been done all the weeks and months before .
She complained to Jegu of his laziness , and he only stared at her , not understanding what she was talking about .
But the brownie , who was standing by , burst out laughing , and confessed that all the good offices she spoke of had been performed by him , for the sake of Jegu , but that now he had other business to do , and it was high time that she looked after her house herself .
Barbaik was furious .
Each morning when she was obliged to get up before dawn to milk the cows and go to market , and each evening when she had to sit up till midnight in order to churn the butter , her heart was filled with rage against the brownie who had caused her to expect a life of ease and pleasure .
But when she looked at Jegu and beheld his red face , squinting eyes , and untidy hair , her anger was doubled .
` If it had not been for you , you miserable dwarf ! '
she would say between her teeth , ` if it had not been for you I should never have married that man , and I should still have been going to dances , where the young men would have brought me present of nuts and cherries , and told me that I was the prettiest girl in the parish .
While now I can receive no presents except from my husband .
I can never dance , except with my husband .
Oh , you wretched dwarf , I will never , never forgive you ! '
In spite of her fierce words , no one knew better than Barbaik how to put her pride in her pocket when it suited her , and after receiving an invitation to a wedding , she begged the brownie to get her a horse to ride there .
To her great joy he consented , bidding her set out for the city of the dwarfs and to tell them exactly what she wanted .
Full of excitement , Barbaik started on her journey .
It was not long , and when she reached the town she went straight to the dwarfs , who were holding counsel in a wide green place , and said to them , ` Listen , my friends !
I have come to beg you to lend me a black horse , with eyes , a mouth , ears , bridle and saddle . '
She had hardly spoken when the horse appeared , and mounting on his back she started for the village where the wedding was to be held .
At first she was so delighted with the chance of a holiday from the work which she hated , that she noticed nothing , but very soon it struck her as odd that as she passed along the roads full of people they all laughed as they looked at her horse .
At length she caught some words uttered by one man to another .
` Why , the farmer 's wife has sold her horse 's tail ! '
and turned in her saddle .
Yes ; it was true .
Her horse had no tail !
She had forgotten to ask for one , and the wicked dwarfs had carried out her orders to the letter !
` Well , at any rate , I shall soon be there , ' she thought , and shaking the reins , tried to urge the horse to a gallop .
But it was of no use ; he declined to move out of a walk ; and she was forced to hear all the jokes that were made upon her .
In the evening she returned to the farm more angry than ever , and quite determined to revenge herself on the brownie whenever she had the chance , which happened to be very soon .
It was the spring , and just the time of year when the dwarfs held their fete , so one day the brownie asked Jegu if he might bring his friends to have supper in the great barn , and whether he would allow them to dance there .
Of course , Jegu was only too pleased to be able to do anything for the brownie , and he ordered Barbaik to spread her best table-cloths in the barn , and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes , and , besides , to keep all the milk given by the cows that morning .
He expected she would refuse , as he knew she hated the dwarfs , but she said nothing , and prepared the supper as he had bidden her .
When all was ready , the dwarfs , in new green suits , came bustling in , very happy and merry , and took their seats at the table .
But in a moment they all sprang up with a cry , and ran away screaming , for Barbaik had placed pans of hot coals under their feet , and all their poor little toes were burnt .
` You wo n't forget that in a hurry , ' she said , smiling grimly to herself , but in a moment they were back again with large pots of water , which they poured on the fire .
Then they joined hands and danced round it , singing : Wicked traitress , Barne Riou , Our poor toes are burned by you ; Now we hurry from your hall -- Bad luck light upon you all .
That evening they left the country for ever , and Jegu , without their help , grew poorer and poorer , and at last died of misery , while Barbaik was glad to find work in the market of Morlaix .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Winning of Olwen There was once a king and queen who had a little boy , and they called his name Kilweh .
The queen , his mother , fell ill soon after his birth , and as she could not take care of him herself she sent him to a woman she knew up in the mountains , so that he might learn to go out in all weathers , and bear heat and cold , and grow tall and strong .
Kilweh was quite happy with his nurse , and ran races and climbed hills with the children who were his playfellows , and in the winter , when the snow lay on the ground , sometimes a man with a harp would stop and beg for shelter , and in return would sing them songs of strange things that had happened in the years gone by .
But long before this changes had taken place in the court of Kilweh 's father .
Soon after she had sent her baby away the queen became much worse , and at length , seeing that she was going to die , she called her husband to her and said : ` Never again shall I rise from this bed , and by and bye thou wilt take another wife .
But lest she should make thee forget thy son , I charge thee that thou take not a wife until thou see a briar with two blossoms upon my grave . '
And this he promised her .
Then she further bade him to see to her grave that nothing might grow thereon .
This likewise he promised her , and soon she died , and for seven years the king sent a man every morning to see that nothing was growing on the queen 's grave , but at the end of seven years he forgot .
One day when the king was out hunting he rode past the place where the queen lay buried , and there he saw a briar growing with two blossoms on it .
` It is time that I took a wife , ' said he , and after long looking he found one .
But he did not tell her about his son ; indeed he hardly remembered that he had one till she heard it at last from an old woman whom she had gone to visit .
And the new queen was very pleased , and sent messengers to fetch the boy , and in his father 's court he stayed , while the years went by till one day the queen told him that a prophecy had foretold that he was to win for his wife Olwen the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr .
When he heard this Kilweh felt proud and happy .
Surely he must be a man now , he thought , or there would be no talk of a wife for him , and his mind dwelt all day upon his promised bride , and what she would be like when he beheld her .
` What aileth thee , my son ? '
asked his father at last , when Kilweh had forgotten something he had been bidden to do , and Kilweh blushed red as he answered : ` My stepmother says that none but Olwen , the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr , shall be my wife . '
` That will be easily fulfilled , ' replied his father .
` Arthur the king is thy cousin .
Go therefore unto him and beg him to cut thy hair , and to grant thee this boon . '
Then the youth pricked forth upon a dapple grey horse of four years old , with a bridle of linked gold , and gold upon his saddle .
In his hand he bore two spears of silver with heads of steel ; a war-horn of ivory was slung round his shoulder , and by his side hung a golden sword .
Before him were two brindled white-breasted greyhounds with collars of rubies round their necks , and the one that was on the left side bounded across to the right side , and the one on the right to the left , and like two sea-swallows sported round him .
And his horse cast up four sods with his four hoofs , like four swallows in the air about his head , now above , now below .
About him was a robe of purple , and an apple of gold was at each corner , and every one of the apples was of the value of a hundred cows .
And the blades of grass bent not beneath him , so light were his horse 's feet as he journeyed toward the gate of Arthur 's palace .
` Is there a porter ? '
cried Kilweh , looking round for someone to open the gate .
` There is ; and I am Arthur 's porter every first day of January , ' answered a man coming out to him .
` The rest of the year there are other porters , and among them Pennpingyon , who goes upon his head to save his feet . '
` Well , open the portal , I say . '
` No , that I may not do , for none can enter save the son of a king or a pedlar who has goods to sell .
But elsewhere there will be food for thy dogs and hay for thy horse , and for thee collops cooked and peppered , and sweet wine shall be served in the guest chamber . '
` That will not do for me , ' answered Kilweh .
` If thou wilt not open the gate I will send up three shouts that shall be heard from Cornwall unto the north , and yet again to Ireland . '
` Whatsoever clamour thou mayest make , ' spake Glewlwyd the porter , ` thou shalt not enter until I first go and speak with Arthur . '
Then Glewlwyd went into the hall , and Arthur said to him : ` Hast thou news from the gate ? '
and the porter answered : ` Far have I travelled , both in this island and elsewhere , and many kingly men have I seen ; but never yet have I beheld one equal in majesty to him who now stands at the door . '
` If walking thou didst enter here , return thou running , ' replied Arthur , ` and let everyone that opens and shuts the eye show him respect and serve him , for it is not meet to keep such a man in the wind and rain . '
So Glewlwyd unbarred the gate and Kilweh rode in upon his charger .
` Greeting unto thee , O ruler of this land , ' cried he , ` and greeting no less to the lowest than to the highest . '
` Greeting to thee also , ' answered Arthur .
` Sit thou between two of my warriors , and thou shalt have minstrels before thee and all that belongs to one born to be a king , while thou remainest in my palace . ' '
I am not come , ' replied Kilweh , ` for meat and drink , but to obtain a boon , and if thou grant it me I will pay it back , and will carry thy praise to the four winds of heaven .
But if thou wilt not grant it to me , then I will proclaim thy discourtesy wherever thy name is known . '
` What thou askest that shalt thou receive , ' said Arthur , ` as far as the wind dries and the rain moistens , and the sun revolves and the sea encircles and the earth extends .
Save only my ship and my mantle , my word and my lance , my shield and my dagger , and Guinevere my wife . ' '
I would that thou bless my hair , ' spake Kilweh , and Arthur answered : ` That shall be granted thee . '
Forthwith he bade his men fetch him a comb of gold and a scissors with loops of silver , and he combed the hair of Kilweh his guest .
` Tell me who thou art , ' he said , ` for my heart warms to thee , and I feel thou art come of my blood . ' '
I am Kilweh , son of Kilydd , ' replied the youth .
` Then my cousin thou art in truth , ' replied Arthur , ` and whatsoever boon thou mayest ask thou shalt receive . '
` The boon I crave is that thou mayest win for me Olwen , the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr , and this boon I seek likewise at the hands of thy warriors .
From Sol , who can stand all day upon one foot ; from Ossol , who , if he were to find himself on the top of the highest mountain in the world , could make it into a level plain in the beat of a bird 's wing ; from Cluse , who , though he were buried under the earth , could yet hear the ant leave her nest fifty miles away : from these and from Kai and from Bedwyr and from all thy mighty men I crave this boon . ' '
O Kilweh , ' said Arthur , ` never have I heard of the maiden of whom thou speakest , nor of her kindred , but I will send messengers to seek her if thou wilt give me time . '
` From this night to the end of the year right willingly will I grant thee , ' replied Kilweh ; but when the end of the year came and the messengers returned Kilweh was wroth , and spoke rough words to Arthur .
It was Kai , the boldest of the warriors and the swiftest of foot -- he would could pass nine nights without sleep , and nine days beneath the water -- that answered him : ` Rash youth that thou art , darest thou speak thus to Arthur ?
Come with us , and we will not part company till we have won that maiden , or till thou confess that there is none such in the world . '
Then Arthur summoned his five best men and bade them go with Kilweh .
There was Bedwyr the one-handed , Kai 's comrade and brother in arms , the swiftest man in Britain save Arthur ; there was Kynddelig , who knew the paths in a land where he had never been as surely as he did those of his own country ; there was Gwrhyr , that could speak all tongues ; and Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar , who never returned till he had gained what he sought ; and last of all there was Menw , who could weave a spell over them so that none might see them , while they could see everyone .
So these seven journeyed together till they reached a vast open plain in which was a fair castle .
But though it seemed so close it was not until the evening of the third day that they really drew near to it , and in front of it a flock of sheep was spread , so many in number that there seemed no end to them .
A shepherd stood on a mound watching over them , and by his side was a dog , as large as a horse nine winters old .
` Whose is this castle , O herdsmen ? '
asked the knights .
` Stupid are ye truly , ' answered the herdsman .
` All the world knows that this is the castle of Yspaddaden Penkawr . '
` And who art thou ? ' '
I am called Custennin , brother of Yspaddaden , and ill has he treated me .
And who are you , and what do you here ? '
` We come from Arthur the king , to seek Olwen the daughter of Yspaddaden , ' but at this news the shepherd gave a cry : ' O men , be warned and turn back while there is yet time .
Others have gone on that quest , but none have escaped to tell the tale , ' and he rose to his feet as if to leave them .
Then Kilweh held out to him a ring of gold , and he tried to put it on his finger , but it was too small , so he placed it in his glove , and went home and gave it to his wife .
` Whence came this ring ? '
asked she , ` for such good luck is not wont to befall thee . '
` The man to whom this ring belonged thou shalt see here in the evening , ' answered the shepherd ; ` he is Kilweh , son of Kilydd , cousin to king Arthur , and he has come to seek Olwen . '
And when the wife heard that she knew that Kilweh was her nephew , and her heart yearned after him , half with joy at the thought of seeing him , and half with sorrow for the doom she feared .
Soon they heard steps approaching , and Kai and the rest entered into the house and ate and drank .
After that the woman opened a chest , and out of it came a youth with curling yellow hair .
` It is a pity to hid him thus , ' said Gwrhyr , ` for well I know that he has done no evil . '
` Three and twenty of my sons has Yspaddaden slain , and I have no more hope of saving this one , ' replied she , and Kai was full of sorrow and answered : ` Let him come with me and be my comrade , and he shall never be slain unless I am slain also . '
And so it was agreed .
` What is your errand here ? '
asked the woman .
` We seek Olwen the maiden for this youth , ' answered Kai ; ` does she ever come hither so that she may be seen ? '
` She comes every Saturday to wash her hair , and in the vessel where she washes she leaves all her rings , and never does she so much as send a messenger to fetch them . '
` Will she come if she is bidden ? '
asked Kai , pondering .
` She will come ; but unless you pledge me your faith that you will not harm her I will not fetch her . '
` We pledge it , ' said they , and the maiden came .
A fair sight was she in a robe of flame-coloured silk , with a collar of ruddy gold about her neck , bright with emeralds and rubies .
More yellow was her head than the flower of the broom , and her skin was whiter than the foam of the wave , and fairer were her hands than the blossoms of the wood anemone .
Four white trefoils sprang up where she trod , and therefore was she called Olwen .
She entered , and sat down on a bench beside Kilweh , and he spake to her : ` Ah , maiden , since first I heard thy name I have loved thee -- wilt thou not come away with me from this evil place ? '
` That I can not do , ' answered she , ` for I have given my word to my father not to go without his knowledge , for his life will only last till I am betrothed .
Whatever is , must be , but this counsel I will give you .
Go , and ask me of my father , and whatsoever he shall required of thee grant it , and thou shalt win me ; but if thou deny him anything thou wilt not obtain me , and it will be well for thee if thou escape with thy life . '
` All this I promise , ' said he .
So she returned to the castle , and all Arthur 's men went after her , and entered the hall .
` Greeting to thee , Yspaddaden Penkawr , ' said they .
` We come to ask thy daughter Olwen for Kilweh , son of Kilydd . '
` Come hither to-morrow and I will answer you , ' replied Yspaddaden Penkawr , and as they rose to leave the hall he caught up one of the three poisoned darts that lay beside him and flung it in their midst .
But Bedwyr saw and caught it , and flung it back so hard that it pierced the knee of Yspaddaden . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly ! '
he cried , writhing with pain . '
I shall ever walk the worse for this rudeness .
Cursed be the smith who forged it , and the anvil on which it was wrought ! '
That night the men slept in the house of Custennin the herdsman , and the next day they proceeded to the castle , and entered the hall , and said : ` Yspaddaden Penkawr , give us thy daughter and thou shalt keep her dower .
And unless thou wilt do this we will slay thee . '
` Her four great grandmothers and her four great grandfathers yet live , ' answered Yspaddaden Penkawr ; ` it is needful that I take counsel with them . '
` Be it so ; we will go to meat , ' but as they turned he took up the second dart that lay by his side and cast it after them .
And Menw caught it , and flung it at him , and wounded him in the chest , so that it came out at his back . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly ! '
cried Yspaddaden , ` the iron pains me like the bite of a horse-leech .
Cursed be the hearth whereon it was heated , and the smith who formed it ! '
The third day Arthur 's men returned to the palace into the presence of Yspaddaden .
` Shoot not at me again , ' said he , ` unless you desire death .
But lift up my eyebrows , which have fallen over my eyes , that I may see my son-in-law . '
Then they arose , and as they did so Yspaddaden Penkawr took the third poisoned dart and cast it at them .
And Kilweh caught it , and flung it back , and it passed through his eyeball , and came out on the other side of his head . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly !
Cursed be the fire in which it was forged and the man who fashioned it ! '
The next day Arthur 's men came again to the palace and said : ` Shoot not at us any more unless thou desirest more pain than even now thou hast , but give us thy daughter without more words . '
` Where is he that seeks my daughter ?
Let him come hither so that I may see him . '
And Kilweh sat himself in a chair and spoke face to face with him .
` Is it thou that seekest my daughter ? '
` It is I , ' answered Kilweh .
` First give me thy word that thou wilt do nothing towards me that is not just , and when thou hast won for me that which I shall ask , then thou shalt wed my daughter . ' '
I promise right willingly , ' said Kilweh .
` Name what thou wilt . '
` Seest thou yonder hill ?
Well , in one day it shall be rooted up and ploughed and sown , and the grain shall ripen , and of that wheat I will bake the cakes for my daughter 's wedding . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this , although thou mayest deem it will not be easy , ' answered Kilweh , thinking of Ossol , under whose feet the highest mountain became straightway a plain , but Yspaddaden paid no heed , and continued : ` Seest thou that field yonder ?
When my daughter was born nine bushels of flax were sown therein , and not one blade has sprung up .
I require thee to sow fresh flax in the ground that my daughter may wear a veil spun from it on the day of her wedding . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this . '
` Though thou compass this there is that which thou wilt not compass .
For thou must bring me the basket of Gwyddneu Garanhir which will give meat to the whole world .
It is for thy wedding feast .
Thou must also fetch me the drinking-horn that is never empty , and the harp that never ceases to play until it is bidden .
Also the comb and scissors and razor that lie between the two ears of Trwyth the boar , so that I may arrange my hair for the wedding .
And though thou get this yet there is that which thou wilt not get , for Trwyth the boar will not let any man take from him the comb and the scissors , unless Drudwyn the whelp hunt him .
But no leash in the world can hold Drudwyn save the leash of Cant Ewin , and no collar will hold the leash except the collar of Canhastyr . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this , though thou mayest think it will not be easy , ' Kilweh answered him .
` Though thou get all these things yet there is that which thou wilt not get .
Throughout the world there is none that can hunt with this dog save Mabon the son of Modron .
He was taken from his mother when three nights old , and it is not know where he now is , nor whether he is living or dead , and though thou find him yet the boar will never be slain save only with the sword of Gwrnach the giant , and if thou obtain it not neither shalt thou obtain my daughter . '
` Horses shall I have , and knights from my lord Arthur .
And I shall gain thy daughter , and thou shalt lose thy life . '
The speech of Kilweh the son of Kilydd with Yspaddaden Penkawr was ended .
Then Arthur 's men set forth , and Kilweh with them , and journeyed till they reached the largest castle in the world , and a black man came out to meet them .
` Whence comest thou , O man ? '
asked they , ` and whose is that castle ? '
` That is the castle of Gwrnach the giant , as all the world knows , ' answered the man , ` but no guest ever returned thence alive , and none may enter the gate except a craftsman , who brings his trade . '
But little did Arthur 's men heed his warning , and they went straight to the gate .
` Open ! '
cried Gwrhyr . '
I will not open , ' replied the porter .
` And wherefore ? '
asked Kai .
` The knife is in the meat , and the drink is in the horn , and there is revelry in the hall of Gwrnach the giant , and save for a craftsman who brings his trade the gate will not be opened to-night . '
` Verily , then , I may enter , ' said Kai , ` for there is no better burnisher of swords than I. ' ` This will I tell Gwrnach the giant , and I will bring thee his answer . '
` Bid the man come before me , ' cried Gwrnach , when the porter had told his tale , ` for my sword stands much in need of polishing , ' so Kai passed in and saluted Gwrnach the giant .
` Is it true what I hear of thee , that thou canst burnish swords ? '
` It is true , ' answered Kai .
Then was the sword of Gwrnach brought to him .
` Shall it be burnished white or blue ? '
said Kai , taking a whetstone from under his arm .
` As thou wilt , ' answered the giant , and speedily did Kai polish half the sword .
The giant marvelled at his skill , and said : ` It is a wonder that such a man as thou shouldst be without a companion . ' '
I have a companion , noble sir , but he has no skill in this art . '
` What is his name ? '
asked the giant .
` Let the porter go forth , and I will tell him how he may know him .
The head of his lance will leave its shaft , and draw blood from the wind , and descend upon its shaft again . '
So the porter opened the gate and Bedwyr entered .
Now there was much talk amongst those who remained without when the gate closed upon Bedwyr , and Goreu , son of Custennin , prevailed with the porter , and he and his companions got in also and hid themselves .
By this time the whole of the sword was polished , and Kai gave it into the hand of Gwrnach the giant , who felt it and said : ` Thy work is good ; I am content . '
Then said Kai : ` It is thy scabbard that hath rusted thy sword ; give it to me that I may take out the wooden sides of it and put in new ones . '
And he took the scabbard in one hand and the sword in the other , and came and stood behind the giant , as if he would have sheathed the sword in the scabbard .
But with it he struck a blow at the head of the giant , and it rolled from his body .
After that they despoiled the castle of its gold and jewels , and returned , bearing the sword of the giant , to Arthur 's court .
They told Arthur how they had sped , and they all took counsel together , and agreed that they must set out on the quest for Mabon the son of Modron , and Gwrhyr , who knew the languages of beasts and of birds , went with them .
SO they journeyed until they came to the nest of an ousel , and Gwrhyr spoke to her .
` Tell me if thou knowest aught of Mabon the son of Modron , who was taken when three nights old from between his mother and the wall . '
And the ousel answered : ` When I first came here I was a young bird , and there was a smith 's anvil in this place .
But from that time no work has been done upon it , save that every evening I have pecked at it , till now there is not so much as the size of a nut remaining thereof .
Yet all that time I have never once heard of the man you name .
Still , there is a race of beasts older than I , and I will guide you to them . '
So the ousel flew before them , till she reached the stag of Redynvre ; but when they inquired of the stag whether he knew aught of Mabon he shook his head .
` When first I came hither , ' said he , ` the plain was bare save for one oak sapling , which grew up to be an oak with a hundred branches .
All that is left of that oak is a withered stump , but never once have I heard of the man you name .
Nevertheless , as you are Arthur 's men , I will guide you to the place where there is an animal older than I ' ; and the stag ran before them till he reached the owl of Cwm Cawlwyd .
But when they inquired of the owl if he knew aught of Mabon he shook his head .
` When first I came hither , ' said he , ` the valley was a wooded glen ; then a race of men came and rooted it up .
After that there grew a second wood , and then a third , which you see .
Look at my wings also -- are they not withered stumps ?
Yet until to-day I have never heard of the man you name .
Still , I will guide you to the oldest animal in the world , and the one that has travelled most , the eagle of Gwern Abbey . '
And he flew before them , as fast as his old wings would carry him , till he reached the eagle of Gwern Abbey , but when they inquired of the eagle whether he knew aught of Mabon he shook his head .
` When I first came hither , ' said the eagle , ` there was a rock here , and every evening I pecked at the stars from the top of it .
Now , behold , it is not even a span high !
But only once have I heard of the man you name , and that was when I went in search of food as far as Llyn Llyw .
I swooped down upon a salmon , and struck my claws into him , but he drew me down under water till scarcely could I escape him .
Then I summoned all my kindred to destroy him , but he made peace with me , and I took fifty fish spears from his back .
Unless he may know something of the man whom you seek I can not tell who may .
But I will guide you to the place where he is . '
So they followed the eagle , who flew before them , though so high was he in the sky , it was often hard to mark his flight .
At length he stopped above a deep pool in a river .
` Salmon of Llyn Llyw , ' he called , ' I have come to thee with an embassy from Arthur to inquire if thou knowest aught concerning Mabon the son of Modron . '
And the salmon answered : ` As much as I know I will tell thee .
With every tide I go up the river , till I reach the walls of Gloucester , and there have I found such wrong as I never found elsewhere .
And that you may see that what I say is true let two of you go thither on my shoulders . '
So Kai and Gwrhyr went upon the shoulders of the salmon , and were carried under the walls of the prison , from which proceeded the sound of great weeping .
` Who is it that thus laments in this house of stone ? '
` It is I , Mabon the son of Modron . '
` Will silver or gold bring thy freedom , or only battle and fighting ? '
asked Gwrhyr again .
` By fighting alone shall I be set free , ' said Mabon .
Then they sent a messenger to Arthur to tell him that Mabon was found , and he brought all his warriors to the castle of Gloucester and fell fiercely upon it ; while Kai and Bedwyr went on the shoulders of the salmon to the gate of the dungeon , and broke it down and carried away Mabon .
And he now being free returned home with Arthur .
After this , on a certain day , as Gwythyr was walking across a mountain he heard a grievous cry , and he hastened towards it .
In a little valley he saw the heather burning and the fire spreading fast towards the anthill , and all the ants were hurrying to and fro , not knowing whither to go .
Gwythyr had pity on them , and put out the fire , and in gratitude the ants brought him the nine bushels of flax seed which Yspaddaden Penkawr required of Kilweh .
And many of the other marvels were done likewise by Arthur and his knights , and at last it came to the fight with Trwyth the board , to obtain the comb and the scissors and the razor that lay between his ears .
But hard was the boar to catch , and fiercely did he fight when Arthur 's men gave him battle , so that many of them were slain .
Up and down the country went Trwyth the boar , and Arthur followed after him , till they came to the Severn sea .
There three knights caught his feet unawares and plunged him into the water , while one snatched the razor from him , and another seized the scissors .
But before they laid hold of the comb he had shaken them all off , and neither man nor horse nor dog could reach him till he came to Cornwall , whither Arthur had sworn he should not go .
Thither Arthur followed after him with his knights , and if it had been hard to win the razor and the scissors , the struggle for the comb was fiercer still , but at length Arthur prevailed , and the boar was driven into the sea .
And whether he was drowned or where he went no man knows to this day .
In the end all the marvels were done , and Kilweh set forward , and with him Goreu , the son of Custennin , to Yspaddaden Penkawr , bearing in their hands the razor , the scissors and the comb , and Yspaddaden Penkawr was shaved by Kaw .
` Is thy daughter mine now ? '
asked Kilweh .
` She is thine , ' answered Yspaddaden , ` but it is Arthur and none other who has won her for thee .
Of my own free will thou shouldst never have had her , for now I must lose my life . '
And as he spake Goreu the son of Custennin cut off his head , as if had been ordained , and Arthur 's hosts returned each man to his own country .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Orange_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE ORANGE FAIRY BOOK The Story of the Hero Makoma From the Senna -LRB- Oral Tradition -RRB- Once upon a time , at the town of Senna on the banks of the Zambesi , was born a child .
He was not like other children , for he was very tall and strong ; over his shoulder he carried a big sack , and in his hand an iron hammer .
He could also speak like a grown man , but usually he was very silent .
One day his mother said to him : ` My child , by what name shall we know you ? '
And he answered : ` Call all the head men of Senna here to the river 's bank . '
And his mother called the head men of the town , and when they had come he led them down to a deep black pool in the river where all the fierce crocodiles lived . '
O great men ! '
he said , while they all listened , ` which of you will leap into the pool and overcome the crocodiles ? '
But no one would come forward .
So he turned and sprang into the water and disappeared .
The people held their breath , for they thought : ` Surely the boy is bewitched and throws away his life , for the crocodiles will eat him ! '
Then suddenly the ground trembled , and the pool , heaving and swirling , became red with blood , and presently the boy rising to the surface swam on shore .
But he was no longer just a boy !
He was stronger than any man and very tall and handsome , so that the people shouted with gladness when they saw him .
` Now , O my people ! '
he cried , waving his hand , ` you know my name -- I am Makoma , `` the Greater '' ; for have I not slain the crocodiles into the pool where none would venture ? '
Then he said to his mother : ` Rest gently , my mother , for I go to make a home for myself and become a hero . '
Then , entering his hut he took Nu-endo , his iron hammer , and throwing the sack over his shoulder , he went away .
Makoma crossed the Zambesi , and for many moons he wandered towards the north and west until he came to a very hilly country where , one day , he met a huge giant making mountains .
` Greeting , ' shouted Makoma , ` you are you ? ' '
I am Chi-eswa-mapiri , who makes the mountains , ' answered the giant ; ` and who are you ? ' '
I am Makoma , which signifies `` greater , '' ' answered he .
` Greater than who ? '
asked the giant .
` Greater than you ! '
answered Makoma .
The giant gave a roar and rushed upon him .
Makoma said nothing , but swinging his great hammer , Nu-endo , he struck the giant upon the head .
He struck him so hard a blow that the giant shrank into quite a little man , who fell upon his knees saying : ` You are indeed greater than I , O Makoma ; take me with you to be your slave ! '
So Makoma picked him up and dropped him into the sack that he carried upon his back .
He was greater than ever now , for all the giant 's strength had gone into him ; and he resumed his journey , carrying his burden with as little difficulty as an eagle might carry a hare .
Before long he came to a country broken up with huge stones and immense clods of earth .
Looking over one of the heaps he saw a giant wrapped in dust dragging out the very earth and hurling it in handfuls on either side of him .
` Who are you , ' cried Makoma , ` that pulls up the earth in this way ? ' '
I am Chi-dubula-taka , ' said he , ` and I am making the river-beds . '
` Do you know who I am ? '
said Makoma . '
I am he that is called `` greater '' ! '
` Greater than who ? '
thundered the giant .
` Greater than you ! '
answered Makoma .
With a shout , Chi-dubula-taka seized a great clod of earth and launched it at Makoma .
But the hero had his sack held over his left arm and the stones and earth fell harmlessly upon it , and , tightly gripping his iron hammer , he rushed in and struck the giant to the ground .
Chi-dubula-taka grovelled before him , all the while growing smaller and smaller ; and when he had become a convenient size Makoma picked him up and put him into the sack beside Chi-eswa-mapiri .
He went on his way even greater than before , as all the river-maker 's power had become his ; and at last he came to a forest of bao-babs and thorn trees .
He was astonished at their size , for every one was full grown and larger than any trees he had ever seen , and close by he saw Chi-gwisa-miti , the giant who was planting the forest .
Chi-gwisa-miti was taller than either of his brothers , but Makoma was not afraid , and called out to him : ` Who are you , O Big One ? '
` I , ' said the giant , ` am Chi-gwisa-miti , and I am planting these bao-babs and thorns as food for my children the elephants . '
` Leave off ! '
shouted the hero , ` for I am Makoma , and would like to exchange a blow with thee ! '
The giant , plucking up a monster bao-bab by the roots , struck heavily at Makoma ; but the hero sprang aside , and as the weapon sank deep into the soft earth , whirled Nu-endo the hammer round his head and felled the giant with one blow .
So terrible was the stroke that Chi-gwisa-miti shrivelled up as the other giants had done ; and when he had got back his breath he begged Makoma to take him as his servant .
` For , ' said he , ` it is honourable to serve a man so great as thou . '
Makoma , after placing him in his sack , proceeded upon his journey , and travelling for many days he at last reached a country so barren and rocky that not a single living thing grew upon it -- everywhere reigned grim desolation .
And in the midst of this dead region he found a man eating fire .
` What are you doing ? '
demanded Makoma . '
I am eating fire , ' answered the man , laughing ; ` and my name is Chi-idea-moto , for I am the flame-spirit , and can waste and destroy what I like . '
` You are wrong , ' said Makoma ; ` for I am Makoma , who is `` greater '' than you -- and you can not destroy me ! '
The fire-eater laughed again , and blew a flame at Makoma .
But the hero sprang behind a rock -- just in time , for the ground upon which he had been standing was turned to molten glass , like an overbaked pot , by the heat of the flame-spirit 's breath .
Then the hero flung his iron hammer at Chi-idea-moto , and , striking him , it knocked him helpless ; so Makoma placed him in the sack , Woro-nowu , with the other great men that he had overcome .
And now , truly , Makoma was a very great hero ; for he had the strength to make hills , the industry to lead rivers over dry wastes , foresight and wisdom in planting trees , and the power of producing fire when he wished .
Wandering on he arrived one day at a great plain , well watered and full of game ; and in the very middle of it , close to a large river , was a grassy spot , very pleasant to make a home upon .
Makoma was so delighted with the little meadow that he sat down under a large tree and removing the sack from his shoulder , took out all the giants and set them before him .
` My friends , ' said he , ' I have travelled far and am weary .
Is not this such a place as would suit a hero for his home ?
Let us then go , to-morrow , to bring in timber to make a kraal . '
So the next day Makoma and the giants set out to get poles to build the kraal , leaving only Chi-eswa-mapiri to look after the place and cook some venison which they had killed .
In the evening , when they returned , they found the giant helpless and tied to a tree by one enormous hair !
` How is it , ' said Makoma , astonished , ` that we find you thus bound and helpless ? ' '
O Chief , ' answered Chi-eswa-mapiri , ` at mid-day a man came out of the river ; he was of immense statue , and his grey moustaches were of such length that I could not see where they ended !
He demanded of me `` Who is thy master ? ''
And I answered : `` Makoma , the greatest of heroes . ''
Then the man seized me , and pulling a hair from his moustache , tied me to this tree -- even as you see me . '
Makoma was very wroth , but he said nothing , and drawing his finger-nail across the hair -LRB- which was as thick and strong as palm rope -RRB- cut it , and set free the mountain-maker .
The three following days exactly the same thing happened , only each time with a different one of the party ; and on the fourth day Makoma stayed in camp when the others went to cut poles , saying that he would see for himself what sort of man this was that lived in the river and whose moustaches were so long that they extended beyond men 's sight .
So when the giants had gone he swept and tidied the camp and put some venison on the fire to roast .
At midday , when the sun was right overhead , he heard a rumbling noise from the river , and looking up he saw the head and shoulders of an enormous man emerging from it .
And behold !
right down the river-bed and up the river-bed , till they faded into the blue distance , stretched the giant 's grey moustaches !
` Who are you ? '
bellowed the giant , as soon as he was out of the water . '
I am he that is called Makoma , ' answered the hero ; ` and , before I slay thee , tell me also what is thy name and what thou doest in the river ? '
` My name is Chin-debou Mau-giri , ' said the giant .
` My home is in the river , for my moustache is the grey fever-mist that hangs above the water , and with which I bind all those that come unto me so that they die . '
` You can not bind me ! '
shouted Makoma , rushing upon him and striking with his hammer .
But the river giant was so slimy that the blow slid harmlessly off his green chest , and as Makoma stumbled and tried to regain his balance , the giant swung one of his long hairs around him and tripped him up .
For a moment Makoma was helpless , but remembering the power of the flame-spirit which had entered into him , he breathed a fiery breath upon the giant 's hair and cut himself free .
As Chin-debou Mau-giri leaned forward to seize him the hero flung his sack Woronowu over the giant 's slippery head , and gripping his iron hammer , struck him again ; this time the blow alighted upon the dry sack and Chin-debou Mau-giri fell dead .
When the four giants returned at sunset with the poles , they rejoiced to find that Makoma had overcome the fever-spirit , and they feasted on the roast venison till far into the night ; but in the morning , when they awoke , Makoma was already warming his hands to the fire , and his face was gloomy .
` In the darkness of the night , O my friends , ' he said presently , ` the white spirits of my fathers came upon me and spoke , saying : `` Get thee hence , Makoma , for thou shalt have no rest until thou hast found and fought with Sakatirina , who had five heads , and is very great and strong ; so take leave of thy friends , for thou must go alone . '' '
Then the giants were very sad , and bewailed the loss of their hero ; but Makoma comforted them , and gave back to each the gifts he had taken from them .
Then bidding them ` Farewell , ' he went on his way .
Makoma travelled far towards the west ; over rough mountains and water-logged morasses , fording deep rivers , and tramping for days across dry deserts where most men would have died , until at length he arrived at a hut standing near some large peaks , and inside the hut were two beautiful women .
` Greeting ! '
said the hero .
` Is this the country of Sakatirina of five heads , whom I am seeking ? '
` We greet you , O Great One ! '
answered the women .
` We are the wives of Sakatirina ; your search is at an end , for there stands he whom you seek ! '
And they pointed to what Makoma had thought were two tall mountain peaks .
` Those are his legs , ' they said ; ` his body you can not see , for it is hidden in the clouds . '
Makoma was astonished when he beheld how tall was the giant ; but , nothing daunted , he went forward until he reached one of Sakatirina 's legs , which he struck heavily with Nu-endo .
Nothing happened , so he hit again and then again until , presently , he heard a tired , far-away voice saying : ` Who is it that scratches my feet ? '
And Makoma shouted as loud as he could , answering : ` It is I , Makoma , who is called `` Greater '' ! '
And he listened , but there was no answer .
Then Makoma collected all the dead brushwood and trees that he could find , and making an enormous pile round the giant 's legs , set a light to it .
This time the giant spoke ; his voice was very terrible , for it was the rumble of thunder in the clouds .
` Who is it , ' he said , ` making that fire smoulder around my feet ? '
` It is I , Makoma ! '
shouted the hero .
` And I have come from far away to see thee , O Sakatirina , for the spirits of my fathers bade me go seek and fight with thee , lest I should grow fat , and weary of myself . '
There was silence for a while , and then the giant spoke softly : ` It is good , O Makoma ! '
he said .
` For I too have grown weary .
There is no man so great as I , therefore I am all alone .
Guard thyself ! '
and bending suddenly he seized the hero in his hands and dashed him upon the ground .
And lo !
instead of death , Makoma had found life , for he sprang to his feet mightier in strength and stature than before , and rushing in he gripped the giant by the waist and wrestled with him .
Hour by hour they fought , and mountains rolled beneath their feet like pebbles in a flood ; now Makoma would break away , and summoning up his strength , strike the giant with Nu-endo his iron hammer , and Sakatirina would pluck up the mountains and hurl them upon the hero , but neither one could slay the other .
At last , upon the second day , they grappled so strongly that they could not break away ; but their strength was failing , and , just as the sun was sinking , they fell together to the ground , insensible .
In the morning when they awoke , Mulimo the Great Spirit was standing by them ; and he said : ' O Makoma and Sakatirina !
Ye are heroes so great that no man may come against you .
Therefore ye will leave the world and take up your home with me in the clouds . '
And as he spake the heroes became invisible to the people of the Earth , and were no more seen among them .
The Magic Mirror -LSB- Native Rhodesian Tale . -RSB-
From the Senna A long , long while ago , before ever the White Men were seen in Senna , there lived a man called Gopani-Kufa .
One day , as he was out hunting , he came upon a strange sight .
An enormous python had caught an antelope and coiled itself around it ; the antelope , striking out in despair with its horns , had pinned the python 's neck to a tree , and so deeply had its horns sunk in the soft wood that neither creature could get away .
` Help ! '
cried the antelope , ` for I was doing no harm , yet I have been caught , and would have been eaten , had I not defended myself . '
` Help me , ' said the python , ` for I am Insato , King of all the Reptiles , and will reward you well ! '
Gopani-Kufa considered for a moment , then stabbing the antelope with his assegai , he set the python free . '
I thank you , ' said the python ; ` come back here with the new moon , when I shall have eaten the antelope , and I will reward you as I promised . '
` Yes , ' said the dying antelope , ` he will reward you , and lo !
your reward shall be your own undoing ! '
Gopani-Kufa went back to his kraal , and with the new moon he returned again to the spot where he had saved the python .
Insato was lying upon the ground , still sleepy from the effects of his huge meal , and when he saw the man he thanked him again , and said : ` Come with me now to Pita , which is my own country , and I will give you what you will of all my possessions . '
Gopani-Kufa at first was afraid , thinking of what the antelope had said , but finally he consented and followed Insato into the forest .
For several days they travelled , and at last they came to a hole leading deep into the earth .
It was not very wide , but large enough to admit a man .
` Hold on to my tail , ' said Insato , ` and I will go down first , drawing you after me . '
The man did so , and Insato entered .
Down , down , down they went for days , all the while getting deeper and deeper into the earth , until at last the darkness ended and they dropped into a beautiful country ; around them grew short green grass , on which browsed herds of cattle and sheep and goats .
In the distance Gopani-Kufa saw a great collection of houses all square , built of stone and very tall , and their roofs were shining with gold and burnished iron .
Gopani-Kufa turned to Insato , but found , in the place of the python , a man , strong and handsome , with the great snake 's skin wrapped round him for covering ; and on his arms and neck were rings of pure gold .
The man smiled . '
I am Insato , ' said he , ` but in my own country I take man 's shape -- even as you see me -- for this is Pita , the land over which I am king . '
He then took Gopani-Kufa by the hand and led him towards the town .
On the way they passed rivers in which men and women were bathing and fishing and boating ; and farther on they came to gardens covered with heavy crops of rice and maize , and many other grains which Gopani-Kufa did not even know the name of .
And as they passed , the people who were singing at their work in the fields , abandoned their labours and saluted Insato with delight , bringing also palm wine and green cocoanuts for refreshment , as to one returned from a long journey .
` These are my children ! '
said Insato , waving his hand towards the people .
Gopani-Kufa was much astonished at all that he saw , but he said nothing .
Presently they came to the town ; everything here , too , was beautiful , and everything that a man might desire he could obtain .
Even the grains of dust in the streets were of gold and silver .
Insato conducted Gopani-Kufa to the palace , and showing him his rooms , and the maidens who would wait upon him , told him that they would have a great feast that night , and on the morrow he might name his choice of the riches of Pita and it should be given him .
Then he was away .
Now Gopani-Kufa had a wasp called Zengi-mizi .
Zengi-mizi was not an ordinary wasp , for the spirit of the father of Gopani-Kufa had entered it , so that it was exceedingly wise .
In times of doubt Gopani-Kufa always consulted the wasp as to what had better be done , so on this occasion he took it out of the little rush basket in which he carried it , saying : ` Zengi-mizi , what gift shall I ask of Insato to-morrow when he would know the reward he shall bestow on me for saving his life ? '
` Biz-z-z , ' hummed Zengi-mizi , ` ask him for Sipao the Mirror . '
And it flew back into its basket .
Gopani-Kufa was astonished at this answer ; but knowing that the words of Zengi-mizi were true words , he determined to make the request .
So that night they feasted , and on the morrow Insato came to Gopani-Kufa and , giving him greeting joyfully , he said : ` Now , O my friend , name your choice amongst my possessions and you shall have it ! ' '
O king ! '
answered Gopani-Kufa , ` out of all your possessions I will have the Mirror , Sipao . '
The king started . '
O friend , Gopani-Kufa , ' he said , ` ask anything but that !
I did not think that you would request that which is most precious to me . '
` Let me think over it again then , O king , ' said Gopani-Kufa , ` and to-morrow I will let you know if I change my mind . '
But the king was still much troubled , fearing the loss of Sipao , for the mirror had magic powers , so that he who owned it had but to ask and his wish would be fulfilled ; to it Insato owed all that he possessed .
As soon as the king left him , Gopani-Kufa again took Zengi-mizi , out of his basket .
` Zengi-mizi , ' he said , ` the king seems loth to grant my request for the Mirror -- is there not some other thing of equal value for which I might ask ? '
And the wasp answered : ` There is nothing in the world , O Gopani-Kufa , which is of such value as this Mirror , for it is a Wishing Mirror , and accomplishes the desires of him who owns it .
If the king hesitates , go to him the next day , and the day after , and in the end he will bestow the Mirror upon you , for you saved his life . '
And it was even so .
For three days Gopani-Kufa returned the same answer to the king , and , at last , with tears in his eyes , Insato gave him the Mirror , which was of polished iron , saying : ` Take Sipao , then , O Gopani-Kufa , and may thy wishes come true .
Go back now to thine own country ; Sipao will show you the way . '
Gopani-Kufa was greatly rejoiced , and , taking farewell of the king , said to the Mirror : ` Sipao , Sipao , I wish to be back upon the Earth again ! '
Instantly he found himself standing upon the upper earth ; but , not knowing the spot , he said again to the Mirror : ` Sipao , Sipao , I want the path to my own kraal ! '
And behold !
right before him lay the path !
When he arrived home he found his wife and daughter mourning for him , for they thought that he had been eaten by lions ; but he comforted them , saying that while following a wounded antelope he had missed his way and had wandered for a long time before he had found the path again .
That night he asked Zengi-mizi , in whom sat the spirit of his father , what he had better ask Sipao for next ?
` Biz-z-z , ' said the wasp , ` would you not like to be as great a chief as Insato ? '
And Gopani-Kufa smiled , and took the Mirror and said to it : ` Sipao , Sipao , I want a town as great as that of Insato , the King of Pita ; and I wish to be chief over it ! '
Then all along the banks of the Zambesi river , which flowed near by , sprang up streets of stone buildings , and their roofs shone with gold and burnished iron like those in Pita ; and in the streets men and women were walking , and young boys were driving out the sheep and cattle to pasture ; and from the river came shouts and laughter from the young men and maidens who had launched their canoes and were fishing .
And when the people of the new town beheld Gopani-Kufa they rejoiced greatly and hailed him as chief .
Gopani-Kufa was now as powerful as Insato the King of the Reptiles had been , and he and his family moved into the palace that stood high above the other buildings right in the middle of the town .
His wife was too astonished at all these wonders to ask any questions , but his daughter Shasasa kept begging him to tell her how he had suddenly become so great ; so at last he revealed the whole secret , and even entrusted Sipao the Mirror to her care , saying : ` It will be safer with you , my daughter , for you dwell apart ; whereas men come to consult me on affairs of state , and the Mirror might be stolen . '
Then Shasasa took the Magic Mirror and hid it beneath her pillow , and after that for many years Gopani-Kufa ruled his people both well and wisely , so that all men loved him , and never once did he need to ask Sipao to grant him a wish .
Now it happened that , after many years , when the hair of Gopani-Kufa was turning grey with age , there came white men to that country .
Up the Zambesi they came , and they fought long and fiercely with Gopani-Kufa ; but , because of the power of the Magic Mirror , he beat them , and they fled to the sea-coast .
Chief among them was one Rei , a man of much cunning , who sought to discover whence sprang Gopani-Kufa 's power .
So one day he called to him a trusty servant named Butou , and said : ` Go you to the town and find out for me what is the secret of its greatness . '
And Butou , dressing himself in rags , set out , and when he came to Gopani-Kufa 's town he asked for the chief ; and the people took him into the presence of Gopani-Kufa .
When the white man saw him he humbled himself , and said : ' O Chief !
take pity on me , for I have no home !
When Rei marched against you I alone stood apart , for I knew that all the strength of the Zambesi lay in your hands , and because I would not fight against you he turned me forth into the forest to starve ! '
And Gopani-Kufa believed the white man 's story , and he took him in and feasted him , and gave him a house .
In this way the end came .
For the heart of Shasasa , the daughter of Gopani-Kufa , went forth to Butou the traitor , and from her he learnt the secret of the Magic Mirror .
One night , when all the town slept , he felt beneath her pillow and , finding the Mirror , he stole it and fled back with it to Rei , the chief of the white men .
So it befell that , one day , as Gopani-Kufa was gazing up at the river from a window of the palace he again saw the war-canoes of the white men ; and at the sight his spirit misgave him .
` Shasasa !
my daughter ! '
he cried wildly , ` go fetch me the mirror , for the white men are at hand . '
` Woe is me , my father ! '
she sobbed .
` The Mirror is gone !
For I loved Butou the traitor , and he has stolen Sipao from me ! '
Then Gopani-Kufa calmed himself , and drew out Zengi-mizi from its rush basket . '
O spirit of my father ! '
he said , ` what now shall I do ? ' '
O Gopani-Kufa ! '
hummed the wasp , ` there is nothing now that can be done , for the words of the antelope which you slew are being fulfilled . '
` Alas !
I am an old man -- I had forgotten ! '
cried the chief .
` The words of the antelope were true words -- my reward shall be my undoing -- they are being fulfilled ! '
Then the white men fell upon the people of Gopani-Kufa and slew them together with the chief and his daughter Shasasa ; and since then all the power of the Earth has rested in the hands of the white men , for they have in their possession Sipao , the Magic Mirror .
Story of the King Who Would See Paradise Once upon a time there was king who , one day out hunting , came upon a fakeer in a lonely place in the mountains .
The fakeer was seated on a little old bedstead reading the Koran , with his patched cloak thrown over his shoulders .
The king asked him what he was reading ; and he said he was reading about Paradise , and praying that he might be worthy to enter there .
Then they began to talk , and , by-and-bye , the king asked the fakeer if he could show him a glimpse of Paradise , for he found it very difficult to believe in what he could not see .
The fakeer replied that he was asking a very difficult , and perhaps a very dangerous , thing ; but that he would pray for him , and perhaps he might be able to do it ; only he warned the king both against the dangers of his unbelief , and against the curiosity which prompted him to ask this thing .
However , the king was not to be turned from his purpose , and he promised the fakeer always to provided him with food , if he , in return , would pray for him .
To this the fakeer agreed , and so they parted .
Time went on , and the king always sent the old fakeer his food according to his promise ; but , whenever he sent to ask him when he was going to show him Paradise , the fakeer always replied : ` Not yet , not yet ! '
After a year or two had passed by , the king heard one day that the fakeer was very ill -- indeed , he was believed to be dying .
Instantly he hurried off himself , and found that it was really true , and that the fakeer was even then breathing his last .
There and then the king besought him to remember his promise , and to show him a glimpse of Paradise .
The dying fakeer replied that if the king would come to his funeral , and , when the grave was filled in , and everyone else was gone away , he would come and lay his hand upon the grave , he would keep his word , and show him a glimpse of Paradise .
At the same time he implored the king not to do this thing , but to be content to see Paradise when God called him there .
Still the king 's curiosity was so aroused that he would not give way .
Accordingly , after the fakeer was dead , and had been buried , he stayed behind when all the rest went away ; and then , when he was quite alone , he stepped forward , and laid his hand upon the grave !
Instantly the ground opened , and the astonished king , peeping in , saw a flight of rough steps , and , at the bottom of them , the fakeer sitting , just as he used to sit , on his rickety bedstead , reading the Koran !
At first the king was so surprised and frightened that he could only stare ; but the fakeer beckoned to him to come down , so , mustering up his courage , he boldly stepped down into the grave .
The fakeer rose , and , making a sign to the king to follow , walked a few paces along a dark passage .
Then he stopped , turned solemnly to his companion , and , with a movement of his hand , drew aside as it were a heavy curtain , and revealed -- what ?
No one knows what was there shown to the king , nor did he ever tell anyone ; but , when the fakeer at length dropped the curtain , and the king turned to leave the place , he had had his glimpse of Paradise !
Trembling in every limb , he staggered back along the passage , and stumbled up the steps out of the tomb into the fresh air again .
The dawn was breaking .
It seemed odd to the king that he had been so long in the grave .
It appeared but a few minutes ago that he had descended , passed along a few steps to the place where he had peeped beyond the veil , and returned again after perhaps five minutes of that wonderful view !
And what WAS it he had seen ?
He racked his brains to remember , but he could not call to mind a single thing !
How curious everything looked too !
Why , his own city , which by now he was entering , seemed changed and strange to him !
The sun was already up when he turned into the palace gate and entered the public durbar hall .
It was full ; a chamberlain came across and asked him why he sat unbidden in the king 's presence .
` But I am the king ! '
he cried .
` What king ? '
said the chamberlain .
` The true king of this country , ' said he indignantly .
Then the chamberlain went away , and spoke to the king who sat on the throne , and the old king heard words like ` mad , ' ` age , ' ` compassion . '
Then the king on the throne called him to come forward , and , as he went , he caught sight of himself reflected in the polished steel shield of the bodyguard , and started back in horror !
He was old , decrepit , dirty , and ragged !
His long white beard and locks were unkempt , and straggled all over his chest and shoulders .
Only one sign of royalty remained to him , and that was the signet ring upon his right hand .
He dragged it off with shaking fingers and held it up to the king .
` Tell me who I am , ' he cried ; ` there is my signet , who once sat where you sit -- even yesterday ! '
The king looked at him compassionately , and examined the signet with curiosity .
Then he commanded , and they brought out dusty records and archives of the kingdom , and old coins of previous reigns , and compared them faithfully .
At last the king turned to the old man , and said : ` Old man , such a king as this whose signet thou hast , reigned seven hundred years ago ; but he is said to have disappeared , none know whither ; where got you the ring ? '
Then the old man smote his breast , and cried out with a loud lamentation ; for he understood that he , who was not content to wait patiently to see the Paradise of the faithful , had been judged already .
And he turned and left the hall without a wor , and went into the jungle , where he lived for twenty-five years a life of prayer and and meditation , until at last the Angel of Death came to him , and mercifully released him , purged and purified through his punishment .
How Isuro the Rabbit Tricked Gudu -LSB- A Pathan story told to Major Campbell . -RSB-
Far away in a hot country , where the forests are very thick and dark , and the rivers very swift and strong , there once lived a strange pair of friends .
Now one of the friends was a big white rabbit named Isuro , and the other was a tall baboon called Gudu , and so fond were they of each other that they were seldom seen apart .
One day , when the sun was hotter even than usual , the rabbit awoke from his midday sleep , and saw Gudu the baboon standing beside him .
` Get up , ' said Gudu ; ' I am going courting , and you must come with me .
So put some food in a bag , and sling it round your neck , for we may not be able to find anything to eat for a long while . '
Then the rabbit rubbed his eyes , and gathered a store of fresh green things from under the bushes , and told Gudu that he was ready for the journey .
They went on quite happily for some distance , and at last they came to a river with rocks scattered here and there across the stream .
` We can never jump those wide spaces if we are burdened with food , ' said Gudu , ` we must throw it into the river , unless we wish to fall in ourselves . '
And stooping down , unseen by Isuro , who was in front of him , Gudu picked up a big stone , and threw it into the water with a loud splash .
` It is your turn now , ' he cried to Isuro .
And with a heavy sigh , the rabbit unfastened his bag of food , which fell into the river .
The road on the other side led down an avenue of trees , and before they had gone very far Gudu opened the bag that lay hidden in the thick hair about his neck , and began to eat some delicious-looking fruit .
` Where did you get that from ? '
asked Isuro enviously .
` Oh , I found after all that I could get across the rocks quite easily , so it seemed a pity not to keep my bag , ' answered Gudu .
` Well , as you tricked me into throwing away mine , you ought to let me share with you , ' said Isuro .
But Gudu pretended not to hear him , and strode along the path .
By-and-bye they entered a wood , and right in front of them was a tree so laden with fruit that its branches swept the ground .
And some of the fruit was still green , and some yellow .
The rabbit hopped forward with joy , for he was very hungry ; but Gudu said to him : ` Pluck the green fruit , you will find it much the best .
I will leave it all for you , as you have had no dinner , and take the yellow for myself . '
So the rabbit took one of the green oranges and began to bite it , but its skin was so hard that he could hardly get his teeth through the rind .
` It does not taste at all nice , ' he cried , screwing up his face ; ' I would rather have one of the yellow ones . '
` No !
no !
I really could not allow that , ' answered Gudu .
` They would only make you ill .
Be content with the green fruit . '
And as they were all he could get , Isuro was forced to put up with them .
After this had happened two or three times , Isuro at last had his eyes opened , and made up his mind that , whatever Gudu told him , he would do exactly the opposite .
However , by this time they had reached the village where dwelt Gudu 's future wife , and as they entered Gudu pointed to a clump of bushes , and said to Isuro : ` Whenever I am eating , and you hear me call out that my food has burnt me , run as fast as you can and gather some of those leaves that they may heal my mouth . '
The rabbit would have liked to ask him why he ate food that he knew would burn him , only he was afraid , and just nodded in reply ; but when they had gone on a little further , he said to Gudu : ' I have dropped my needle ; wait here a moment while I go and fetch it . '
` Be quick then , ' answered Gudu , climbing into a tree .
And the rabbit hastened back to the bushes , and gathered a quantity of the leaves , which he hid among his fur , ` For , ' thought he , ` if I get them now I shall save myself the trouble of a walk by-and-by . '
When he had plucked as many as he wanted he returned to Gudu , and they went on together .
The sun was almost setting by the time they reached their journey 's end and being very tired they gladly sat down by a well .
Then Gudu 's betrothed , who had been watching for him , brought out a pitcher of water -- which she poured over them to wash off the dust of the road -- and two portions of food .
But once again the rabbit 's hopes were dashed to the ground , for Gudu said hastily : ` The custom of the village forbids you to eat till I have finished . '
And Isuro did not know that Gudu was lying , and that he only wanted more food .
So he saw hungrily looking on , waiting till his friend had had enough .
In a little while Gudu screamed loudly : ' I am burnt !
I am burnt ! '
though he was not burnt at all .
Now , though Isuro had the leaves about him , he did not dare to produce them at the last moment lest the baboon should guess why he had stayed behind .
So he just went round a corner for a short time , and then came hopping back in a great hurry .
But , quick though he was , Gudu had been quicker still , and nothing remained but some drops of water .
` How unlucky you are , ' said Gudu , snatching the leaves ; ` no sooner had you gone than ever so many people arrived , and washed their hands , as you see , and ate your portion . '
But , though Isuro knew better than to believe him , he said nothing , and went to bed hungrier than he had ever been in his life .
Early next morning they started for another village , and passed on the way a large garden where people were very busy gathering monkey-nuts .
` You can have a good breakfast at last , ' said Gudu , pointing to a heap of empty shells ; never doubting but that Isuro would meekly take the portion shown him , and leave the real nuts for himself .
But what was his surprise when Isuro answered : ` Thank you ; I think I should prefer these . '
And , turning to the kernels , never stopped as long as there was one left .
And the worst of it was that , with so many people about , Gudu could not take the nuts from him .
It was night when they reached the village where dwelt the mother of Gudu 's betrothed , who laid meat and millet porridge before them . '
I think you told me you were fond of porridge , ' said Gudu ; but Isuro answered : ` You are mistaking me for somebody else , as I always eat meat when I can get it . '
And again Gudu was forced to be content with the porridge , which he hated .
While he was eating it , however a sudden thought darted into his mind , and he managed to knock over a great pot of water which was hanging in front of the fire , and put it quite out .
` Now , ' said the cunning creature to himself , ' I shall be able in the dark to steal his meat ! '
But the rabbit had grown as cunning as he , and standing in a corner hid the meat behind him , so that the baboon could not find it . '
O Gudu ! '
he cried , laughing aloud , ` it is you who have taught me to be clever . '
And calling to the people of the house , he bade them kindle the fire , for Gudu would sleep by it , but that he would pass the night with some friends in another hut .
It was still quite dark when Isuro heard his name called very softly , and , on opening his eyes , beheld Gudu standing by him .
Laying his finger on his nose , in token of silence , he signed to Isuro to get up and follow him , and it was not until they were some distance from the hut that Gudu spoke . '
I am hungry and want something to eat better than that nasty porridge that I had for supper .
So I am going to kill one of those goats , and as you are a good cook you must boil the flesh for me . '
The rabbit nodded , and Gudu disappeared behind a rock , but soon returned dragging the dead goat with him .
The two then set about skinning it , after which they stuffed the skin with dried leaves , so that no one would have guessed it was not alive , and set it up in the middle of a lump of bushes , which kept it firm on its feet .
While he was doing this , Isuro collected sticks for a fire , and when it was kindled , Gudu hastened to another hut to steal a pot which he filled with water from the river , and , planting two branches in the ground , they hung the pot with the meat in it over the fire .
` It will not be fit to eat for two hours at least , ' said Gudu , ` so we can both have a nap . '
And he stretched himself out on the ground , and pretended to fall fast asleep , but , in reality , he was only waiting till it was safe to take all the meat for himself .
` Surely I hear him snore , ' he thought ; and he stole to the place where Isuro was lying on a pile of wood , but the rabbit 's eyes were wide open .
` How tiresome , ' muttered Gudu , as he went back to his place ; and after waiting a little longer he got up , and peeped again , but still the rabbit 's pink eyes stared widely .
If Gudu had only known , Isuro was asleep all the time ; but this he never guessed , and by-and-bye he grew so tired with watching that he went to sleep himself .
Soon after , Isuro woke up , and he too felt hungry , so he crept softly to the pot and ate all the meat , while he tied the bones together and hung them in Gudu 's fur .
After that he went back to the wood-pile and slept again .
In the morning the mother of Gudu 's betrothed came out to milk her goats , and on going to the bushes where the largest one seemed entangled , she found out the trick .
She made such lament that the people of the village came running , and Gudu and Isuro jumped up also , and pretended to be as surprised and interested as the rest .
But they must have looked guilty after all , for suddenly an old man pointed to them , and cried : ` Those are thieves . '
And at the sound of his voice the big Gudu trembled all over .
` How dare you say such things ?
I defy you to prove it , ' answered Isuro boldly .
And he danced forward , and turned head over heels , and shook himself before them all . '
I spoke hastily ; you are innocent , ' said the old man ; ` but now let the baboon do likewise . '
And when Gudu began to jump the goat 's bones rattled and the people cried : ` It is Gudu who is the goat-slayer ! '
But Gudu answered : ` Nay , I did not kill your goat ; it was Isuro , and he ate the meat , and hung the bones round my neck .
So it is he who should die ! '
And the people looked at each other , for they knew not what to believe .
At length one man said : ` Let them both die , but they may choose their own deaths . '
Then Isuro answered : ` If we must die , put us in the place where the wood is cut , and heap it up all round us , so that we can not escape , and set fire to the wood ; and if one is burned and the other is not , then he that is burned is the goat-slayer . '
And the people did as Isuro had said .
But Isuro knew of a hole under the wood-pile , and when the fire was kindled he ran into the hole , but Gudu died there .
When the fire had burned itself out and only ashes were left where the wood had been , Isuro came out of his hole , and said to the people : ` Lo !
did I not speak well ?
He who killed your goat is among those ashes . '
Ian , the Soldier 's Son -LSB- Mashona Story . -RSB-
There dwelt a knight in Grianaig of the land of the West , who had three daughters , and for goodness and beauty they had not their like in all the isles .
All the people loved them , and loud was the weeping when one day , as the three maidens sat on the rocks on the edge of the sea , dipping their feet in the water , there arose a great beast from under the waves and swept them away beneath the ocean .
And none knew whither they had gone , or how to seek them .
Now there lived in a town a few miles off a soldier who had three sons , fine youths and strong , and the best players at shinny in that country .
At Christmastide that year , when families met together and great feasts were held , Ian , the youngest of the three brothers , said : ` Let us have a match at shinny on the lawn of the knight of Grianaig , for his lawn is wider and the grass smoother than ours . '
But the others answered : ` Nay , for he is in sorrow , and he will think of the games that we have played there when his daughters looked on . '
` Let him be pleased or angry as he will , ' said Ian ; ` we will drive our ball on his lawn to-day . '
And so it was done , and Ian won three games from his brothers .
But the knight looked out of his window , and was wroth ; and bade his men bring the youths before him .
When he stood in his hall and beheld them , his heart was softened somewhat ; but his face was angry as he asked : ` Why did you choose to play shinny in front of my castle when you knew full well that the remembrance of my daughters would come back to me ?
The pain which you have made me suffer you shall suffer also . '
` Since we have done you wrong , ' answered Ian , the youngest , ` build us a ship , and we will go and seek your daughters .
Let them be to windward , or to leeward , or under the four brown boundaries of the sea , we will find them before a year and a day goes by , and will carry them back to Grianaig . '
In seven days the ship was built , and great store of food and wine placed in her .
And the three brothers put her head to the sea and sailed away , and in seven days the ship ran herself on to a beach of white sand , and they all went ashore .
They had none of them ever seen that land before , and looked about them .
Then they saw that , a short way from them , a number of men were working on a rock , with one man standing over them .
` What place is this ? '
asked the eldest brother .
And the man who was standing by made answer : ` This is the place where dwell the three daughters of the knight of Grianaig , who are to be wedded to-morrow to three giants . '
` How can we find them ? '
asked the young man again .
And the overlooker answered : ` To reach the daughters of the knight of Grianaig you must get into this basket , and be drawn by a rope up the face of this rock . '
` Oh , that is easily done , ' said the eldest brother , jumping into the basket , which at once began to move -- up , and up , and up -- till he had gone about half-way , when a fat black raven flew at him and pecked him till he was nearly blind , so that he was forced to go back the way he had come .
After that the second brother got into the creel ; but he fared no better , for the raven flew upon him , and he returned as his brother had done .
` Now it is my turn , ' said Ian .
But when he was halfway up the raven set upon him also .
` Quick !
quick ! '
cried Ian to the men who held the rope .
` Quick !
quick !
or I shall be blinded ! '
And the men pulled with all their might , and in another moment Ian was on top , and the raven behind him .
` Will you give me a piece of tobacco ? '
asked the raven , who was now quite quiet .
` You rascal !
Am I to give you tobacco for trying to peck my eyes out ? '
answered Ian .
` That was part of my duty , ' replied the raven ; ` but give it to me , and I will prove a good friend to you . '
So Ian broke off a piece of tobacco and gave it to him .
The raven hid it under his wing , and then went on ; ` Now I will take you to the house of the big giant , where the knight 's daughter sits sewing , sewing , till even her thimble is wet with tears . '
And the raven hopped before him till they reached a large house , the door of which stood open .
They entered and passed through one hall after the other , until they found the knight 's daughter , as the bird had said .
` What brought you here ? '
asked she .
And Ian made answer : ` Why may I not go where you can go ? ' '
I was brought hither by a giant , ' replied she . '
I know that , ' said Ian ; ` but tell me where the giant is , that I may find him . '
` He is on the hunting hill , ' answered she ; ` and nought will bring him home save a shake of the iron chain which hangs outside the gate .
But , there , neither to leeward , nor to windward , nor in the four brown boundaries of the sea , is there any man that can hold battle against him , save only Ian , the soldier 's son , and he is now but sixteen years old , and how shall he stand against the giant ? '
` In the land whence I have come there are many men with the strength of Ian , ' answered he .
And he went outside and pulled at the chain , but he could not move it , and fell on to his knees .
At that he rose swiftly , and gathering up his strength , he seized the chain , and this time he shook it so that the link broke .
And the giant heard it on the hunting hill , and lifted his head , thinking -- ` It sounds like the noise of Ian , the soldier 's son , ' said he ; ` but as yet he is only sixteen years old .
Still , I had better look to it . '
And home he came .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
he asked , as he entered the castle .
` No , of a surety , ' answered the youth , who had no wish that they should know him .
` Then who are you in the leeward , or in the windward , or in the four brown boundaries of the sea , who are able to move my battle-chain ? '
` That will be plain to you after wrestling with me as I wrestle with my mother .
And one time she got the better of me , and two times she did not . '
So they wrestled , and twisted and strove with each other till the giant forced Ian to his knee .
` You are the stronger , ' said Ian ; and the giant answered : ` All men know that ! '
And they took hold of each other once more , and at last Ian threw the giant , and wished that the raven were there to help him .
No sooner had he wished his wish than the raven came .
` Put your hand under my right wing and you will find a knife sharp enough to take off his head , ' said the raven .
And the knife was so sharp that it cut off the giant 's head with a blow .
` Now go and tell the daughter of the king of Grianaig ; but take heed lest you listen to her words , and promise to go no further , for she will seek to help you .
Instead , seek the middle daughter , and when you have found her , you shall give me a piece of tobacco for reward . '
` Well have you earned the half of all I have , ' answered Ian .
But the raven shook his head .
` You know only what has passed , and nothing of what lies before .
If you would not fail , wash yourself in clean water , and take balsam from a vessel on top of the door , and rub it over your body , and to-morrow you will be as strong as many men , and I will lead you to the dwelling of the middle one . '
Ian did as the raven bade him , and in spite of the eldest daughter 's entreaties , he set out to seek her next sister .
He found her where she was seated sewing , her very thimble wet from the tears which she had shed .
` What brought you here ? '
asked the second sister .
` Why may I not go where you can go ? '
answered he ; ` and why are you weeping ? '
` Because in one day I shall be married to the giant who is on the hunting hill . '
` How can I get him home ? '
asked Ian .
` Nought will bring him but a shake of that iron chain which hangs outside the gate .
But there is neither to leeward , nor to westward , nor in the four brown boundaries of the sea , any man that can hold battle with him , save Ian , the soldier 's son , and he is now but sixteen years of age . '
` In the land whence I have come there are many men with the strength of Ian , ' said he .
And he went outside and pulled at the chain , but he could not move it , and fell on his knees .
At that he rose to his feet , and gathering up his strength mightily , he seized the chain , and this time he shook it so that three links broke .
And the second giant heard it on the hunting hill , and lifted his head , thinking -- ` It sounds like the noise of Ian , the soldier 's son , ' said he ; ` but as yet he is only sixteen years old .
Still , I had better look to it . '
And home he came .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
he asked , as he entered the castle .
` No , of a surety , ' answered the youth , who had no wish that this giant should know him either ; ` but I will wrestle with you as if I were he . '
Then they seized each other by the shoulder , and the giant threw him on his two knees .
` You are the stronger , ' cried Ian ; ` but I am not beaten yet . '
And rising to his feet , he threw his arms round the giant .
Backwards and forwards they swayed , and first one was uppermost and then the other ; but at length Ian worked his leg round the giant 's and threw him to the ground .
Then he called to the raven , and the raven came flapping towards him , and said : ` Put your hand under my right wing , and you will find there a knife sharp enough to take off his head . '
And sharp indeed it was , for with a single blow , the giant 's head rolled from his body .
` Now wash yourself with warm water , and rub yourself over with oil of balsam , and to-morrow you will be as strong as many men .
But beware of the words of the knight 's daughter , for she is cunning , and will try to keep you at her side .
So farewell ; but first give me a piece of tobacco . '
` That I will gladly , ' answered Ian breaking off a large bit .
He washed and rubbed himself that night , as the raven had told him , and the next morning he entered the chamber where the knight 's daughter was sitting .
` Abide here with me , ' she said , ` and be my husband .
There is silver and gold in plenty in the castle . '
But he took no heed , and went on his way till he reached the castle where the knight 's youngest daughter was sewing in the hall .
And tears dropped from her eyes on to her thimble .
` What brought you here ? '
asked she .
And Ian made answer : ` Why may I not go where you can go ? ' '
I was brought hither by a giant . ' '
I know full well , ' said he .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
asked she again .
And again he answered : ` Yes , I am ; but tell me , why are you weeping ? '
` To-morrow the giant will return from the hunting hill , and I must marry him , ' she sobbed .
And Ian took no heed , and only said : ` How can I bring him home ? '
` Shake the iron chain that hangs outside the gate . '
And Ian went out , and gave such a pull to the chain that he fell down at full length from the force of the shake .
But in a moment he was on his feet again , and seized the chain with so much strength that four links came off in his hand .
And the giant heard him in the hunting hill , as he was putting the game he had killed into a bag .
` In the leeward , or the windward , or in the four brown boundaries of the sea , there is none who could give my chain a shake save only Ian , the soldier 's son .
And if he has reached me , then he has left my two brothers dead behind him . '
With that he strode back to the castle , the earth trembling under him as he went .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
asked he .
And the youth answered : ` No , of a surety . '
` Then who are you in the leeward , or the windward , or in the four brown boundaries of the sea , who are able to shake my battle chain ?
There is only Ian , the soldier 's son , who can do this , and he is but now sixteen years old . '
I will show you who I am when you have wrestled with me , ' said Ian .
And they threw their arms round each other , and the giant forced Ian on to his knees ; but in a moment he was up again , and crooking his leg round the shoulders of the giant , he threw him heavily to the ground .
` Stumpy black raven , come quick ! '
cried he ; and the raven came , and beat the giant about the head with his wings , so that he could not get up .
Then he bade Ian take out a sharp knife from under his feathers , which he carried with him for cutting berries , and Ian smote off the giant 's head with it .
And so sharp was that knife that , with one blow , the giant 's head rolled on the ground .
` Rest now this night also , ' said the raven , ` and to-morrow you shall take the knight 's three daughters to the edge of the rock that leads to the lower world .
But take heed to go down first yourself , and let them follow after you .
And before I go you shall give me a piece of tobacco . '
` Take it all , ' answered Ian , ` for well have you earned it . '
` No ; give me but a piece .
You know what is behind you , but you have no knowledge of what is before you . '
And picking up the tobacco in his beak , the raven flew away .
So the next morning the knight 's youngest daughter loaded asses with all the silver and gold to be found in the castle , and she set out with Ian the soldier 's son for the house where her second sister was waiting to see what would befall .
She also had asses laden with precious things to carry away , and so had the eldest sister , when they reached the castle where she had been kept a prisoner .
Together they all rode to the edge of the rock , and then Ian lay down and shouted , and the basket was drawn up , and in it they got one by one , and were let down to the bottom .
When the last one was gone , Ian should have gone also , and left the three sisters to come after him ; but he had forgotten the raven 's warning , and bade them go first , lest some accident should happen .
Only , he begged the youngest sister to let him keep the little gold cap which , like the others , she wore on her head ; and then he helped them , each in her turn , into the basket .
Long he waited , but wait as he might , the basket never came back , for in their joy at being free the knight 's daughters had forgotten all about Ian , and had set sail in the ship that had brought him and his brothers to the land of Grianaig .
At last he began to understand what had happened to him , and while he was taking counsel with himself what had best be done , the raven came to him .
` You did not heed my words , ' he said gravely .
` No , I did not , and therefore am I here , ' answered Ian , bowing his head .
` The past can not be undone , ' went on the raven .
` He that will not take counsel will take combat .
This night , you will sleep in the giant 's castle .
And now you shall give me a piece of tobacco . ' '
I will .
But , I pray you , stay in the castle with me . '
` That I may not do , but on the morrow I will come . '
And on the morrow he did , and he bade Ian go to the giant 's stable where stood a horse to whom it mattered nothing if she journeyed over land or sea .
` But be careful , ' he added , ` how you enter the stable , for the door swings without ceasing to and fro , and if it touches you , it will cause you to cry out .
I will go first and show you the way . '
` Go , ' said Ian .
And the raven gave a bob and a hop , and thought he was quite safe , but the door slammed on a feather of his tail , and he screamed loudly .
Then Ian took a run backwards , and a run forwards , and made a spring ; but the door caught one of his feet , and he fell fainting on the stable floor .
Quickly the raven pounced on him , and picked him up in his beak and claws , and carried him back to the castle , where he laid ointments on his foot till it was as well as ever it was .
` Now come out to walk , ' said the raven , ` but take heed that you wonder not at aught you may behold ; neither shall you touch anything .
And , first , give me a piece of tobacco . '
Many strange things did Ian behold in that island , more than he had thought for .
In a glen lay three heroes stretched on their backs , done to death by three spears that still stuck in their breasts .
But he kept his counsel and spake nothing , only he pulled out the spears , and the men sat up and said : ` You are Ian the soldier 's son , and a spell is laid upon you to travel in our company , to the cave of the black fisherman . '
So together they went till they reached the cave , and one of the men entered , to see what should be found there .
And he beheld a hag , horrible to look upon , seated on a rock , and before he could speak , she struck him with her club , and changed him into a stone ; and in like manner she dealt with the other three .
At the last Ian entered .
` These men are under spells , ' said the witch , ` and alive they can never be till you have anointed them with the water which you must fetch from the island of Big Women .
See that you do not tarry . '
And Ian turned away with a sinking heart , for he would fain have followed the youngest daughter of the knight of Grianaig .
` You did not obey my counsel , ' said the raven , hopping towards him , ` and so trouble has come upon you .
But sleep now , and to-morrow you shall mount the horse which is in the giant 's stable , that can gallop over sea and land .
When you reach the island of Big Women , sixteen boys will come to meet you , and will offer the horse food , and wish to take her saddle and bridle from her .
But see that they touch her not , and give her food yourself , and yourself lead her into the stable , and shut the door .
And be sure that for every turn of the lock given by the sixteen stable lads you give one .
And now you shall break me off a piece of tobacco . '
The next morning Ian arose , and led the horse from the stable , without the door hurting him , and he rode across the sea to the island of the Big Women , where the sixteen stable lads met him , and each one offered to take his horse , and to feed her , and to put her into the stable .
But Ian only answered : ' I myself will put her in and will see to her . '
And thus he did .
And while he was rubbing her sides the horse said to him : ` Every kind of drink will they offer you , but see you take none , save whey and water only . '
And so it fell out ; and when the sixteen stable-boys saw that he would drink nothing , they drank it all themselves , and one by one lay stretched around the board .
Then Ian felt pleased in his heart that he had withstood their fair words , and he forgot the counsel that the horse had likewise given him saying : ` Beware lest you fall asleep , and let slip the chance of getting home again ' ; for while the lads were sleeping sweet music reached his ears , and he slept also .
When this came to pass the steed broke through the stable door , and kicked him and woke him roughly .
` You did not heed my counsel , ' said she ; ` and who knows if it is not too late to win over the sea ?
But first take that sword which hangs on the wall , and cut off the heads of the sixteen grooms . '
Filled with shame at being once more proved heedless , Ian arose and did as the horse bade him .
Then he ran to the well and poured some of the water into a leather bottle , and jumping on the horse 's back rode over the sea to the island where the raven was waiting for him .
` Lead the horse into the stable , ' said the raven , ` and lie down yourself to sleep , for to-morrow you must make the heroes to live again , and must slay the hag .
And have a care not to be so foolish to-morrow as you were to-day . '
` Stay with me for company , ' begged Ian ; but the raven shook his head , and flew away .
In the morning Ian awoke , and hastened to the cave where the old hag was sitting , and he struck her dead as she was , before she could cast spells on him .
Next he sprinkled the water over the heroes , who came to life again , and together they all journeyed to the other side of the island , and there the raven met them .
` At last you have followed the counsel that was given you , ' said the raven ; ` and now , having learned wisdom , you may go home again to Grianaig .
There you will find that the knight 's two eldest daughters are to be wedded this day to your two brothers , and the youngest to the chief of the men at the rock .
But her gold cap you shall give to me and , if you want it , you have only to think of me and I will bring it to you .
And one more warning I give you .
If anyone asks you whence you came , answer that you have come from behind you ; and if anyone asks you whither you are going , say that you are going before you . '
So Ian mounted the horse and set her face to the sea and her back to the shore , and she was off , away and away till she reached the church of Grianaig , and there , in a field of grass , beside a well of water , he leaped down from his saddle .
` Now , ' the horse said to him , ` draw your sword and cut off my head . '
But Ian answered : ` Poor thanks would that be for all the help I have had from you . '
` It is the only way that I can free myself from the spells that were laid by the giants on me and the raven ; for I was a girl and he was a youth wooing me !
So have no fears , but do as I have said . '
Then Ian drew his sword as she bade him , and cut off her head , and went on his way without looking backwards .
As he walked he saw a woman standing at her house door .
She asked him whence he had come , and he answered as the raven had told him , that he came from behind .
Next she inquired whither he was going , and this time he made reply that he was going on before him , but that he was thirsty and would like a drink .
` You are an impudent fellow , ' said the woman ; ` but you shall have a drink . '
And she gave him some milk , which was all she had till her husband came home .
` Where is your husband ? '
asked Ian , and the woman answered him : ` He is at the knight 's castle trying to fashion gold and silver into a cap for the youngest daughter , like unto the caps that her sisters wear , such as are not to be found in all this land .
But , see , he is returning ; and now we shall hear how he has sped . '
At that the man entered the gate , and beholding a strange youth , he said to him : ` What is your trade , boy ? ' '
I am a smith , ' replied Ian .
And the man answered : ` Good luck has befallen me , then , for you can help me to make a cap for the knight 's daughter . '
` You can not make that cap , and you know it , ' said Ian .
` Well , I must try , ' replied the man , ` or I shall be hanged on a tree ; so it were a good deed to help me . ' '
I will help you if I can , ' said Ian ; ` but keep the gold and silver for yourself , and lock me into the smithy to-night , and I will work my spells . '
So the man , wondering to himself , locked him in .
As soon as the key was turned in the lock Ian wished for the raven , and the raven came to him , carrying the cap in his mouth .
` Now take my head off , ' said the raven .
But Ian answered : ` Poor thanks were that for all the help you have given me . '
` It is the only thanks you can give me , ' said the raven , ` for I was a youth like yourself before spells were laid on me . '
Then Ian drew his sword and cut off the head of the raven , and shut his eyes so that he might see nothing .
After that he lay down and slept till morning dawned , and the man came and unlocked the door and shook the sleeper .
` Here is the cap , ' said Ian drowsily , drawing it from under his pillow .
And he fell asleep again directly .
The sun was high in the heavens when he woke again , and this time he beheld a tall , brown-haired youth standing by him . '
I am the raven , ' said the youth , ` and the spells are broken .
But now get up and come with me . '
Then they two went together to the place where Ian had left the dead horse ; but no horse was there now , only a beautiful maiden . '
I am the horse , ' she said , ` and the spells are broken ' ; and she and the youth went away together .
In the meantime the smith had carried the cap to the castle , and bade a servant belonging to the knight 's youngest daughter bear it to her mistress .
But when the girl 's eyes fell on it , she cried out : ` He speaks false ; and if he does not bring me the man who really made the cap I will hang him on the tree beside my window . '
The servant was filled with fear at her words , and hastened and told the smith , who ran as fast as he could to seek for Ian .
And when he found him and brought him into the castle , the girl was first struck dumb with joy ; then she declared that she would marry nobody else .
At this some one fetched to her the knight of Grianaig , and when Ian had told his tale , he vowed that the maiden was right , and that his elder daughters should never wed with men who had not only taken glory to themselves which did not belong to them , but had left the real doer of the deeds to his fate .
And the wedding guests said that the knight had spoken well ; and the two elder brothers were fain to leave the country , for no one would converse with them .
The Fox and the Wolf -LSB- From Tales of the West Highlands . -RSB-
At the foot of some high mountains there was , once upon a time , a small village , and a little way off two roads met , one of them going to the east and the other to the west .
The villagers were quiet , hard-working folk , who toiled in the fields all day , and in the evening set out for home when the bell began to ring in the little church .
In the summer mornings they led out their flocks to pasture , and were happy and contented from sunrise to sunset .
One summer night , when a round full moon shone down upon the white road , a great wolf came trotting round the corner . '
I positively must get a good meal before I go back to my den , ' he said to himself ; ` it is nearly a week since I have tasted anything but scraps , though perhaps no one would think it to look at my figure !
Of course there are plenty of rabbits and hares in the mountains ; but indeed one needs to be a greyhound to catch them , and I am not so young as I was !
If I could only dine off that fox I saw a fortnight ago , curled up into a delicious hairy ball , I should ask nothing better ; I would have eaten her then , but unluckily her husband was lying beside her , and one knows that foxes , great and small , run like the wind .
Really it seems as if there was not a living creature left for me to prey upon but a wolf , and , as the proverb says : `` One wolf does not bite another . ''
However , let us see what this village can produce .
I am as hungry as a schoolmaster . '
Now , while these thoughts were running through the mind of the wolf , the very fox he had been thinking of was galloping along the other road .
` The whole of this day I have listened to those village hens clucking till I could bear it no longer , ' murmured she as she bounded along , hardly seeming to touch the ground .
` When you are fond of fowls and eggs it is the sweetest of all music .
As sure as there is a sun in heaven I will have some of them this night , for I have grown so thin that my very bones rattle , and my poor babies are crying for food . '
And as she spoke she reached a little plot of grass , where the two roads joined , and flung herself under a tree to take a little rest , and to settle her plans .
At this moment the wolf came up .
At the sight of the fox lying within his grasp his mouth began to water , but his joy was somewhat checked when he noticed how thin she was .
The fox 's quick ears heard the sound of his paws , though they were soft as velvet , and turning her head she said politely : ` Is that you , neighbour ?
What a strange place to meet in !
I hope you are quite well ? '
` Quite well as regards my health , ' answered the wolf , whose eye glistened greedily , ` at least , as well as one can be when one is very hungry .
But what is the matter with you ?
A fortnight ago you were as plump as heart could wish ! ' '
I have been ill -- very ill , ' replied the fox , ` and what you say is quite true .
A worm is fat in comparison with me . '
` He is .
Still , you are good enough for me ; for `` to the hungry no bread is hard . '' '
` Oh , you are always joking !
I 'm sure you are not half as hungry as I ! '
` That we shall soon see , ' cried the wolf , opening his huge mouth and crouching for a spring .
` What are you doing ? '
exclaimed the fox , stepping backwards .
` What am I doing ?
What I am going to do is to make my supper off you , in less time than a cock takes to crow . '
` Well , I suppose you must have your joke , ' answered the fox lightly , but never removing her eye from the wolf , who replied with a snarl which showed all his teeth : ' I do n't want to joke , but to eat ! '
` But surely a person of your talents must perceive that you might eat me to the very last morsel and never know that you had swallowed anything at all ! '
` In this world the cleverest people are always the hungriest , ' replied the wolf .
` Ah !
how true that is ; but -- ' ' I ca n't stop to listen to your `` buts '' and `` yets , '' ' broke in the wolf rudely ; ` let us get to the point , and the point is that I want to eat you and not talk to you . '
` Have you no pity for a poor mother ? '
asked the fox , putting her tail to her eyes , but peeping slily out of them all the same . '
I am dying of hunger , ' answered the wolf , doggedly ; ` and you know , ' he added with a grin , ` that charity begins at home . '
` Quite so , ' replied the fox ; ` it would be unreasonable of me to object to your satisfying your appetite at my expense .
But if the fox resigns herself to the sacrifice , the mother offers you one last request . '
` Then be quick and do n't waste my time , for I ca n't wait much longer .
What is it you want ? '
` You must know , ' said the fox , ` that in this village there is a rich man who makes in the summer enough cheeses to last him for the whole year , and keeps them in an old well , now dry , in his courtyard .
By the well hang two buckets on a pole that were used , in former days , to draw up water .
For many nights I have crept down to the palace , and have lowered myself in the bucket , bringing home with me enough cheese to feed the children .
All I beg of you is to come with me , and , instead of hunting chickens and such things , I will make a good meal off cheese before I die . '
` But the cheeses may be all finished by now ? '
` If you were only to see the quantities of them ! '
laughed the fox .
` And even if they were finished , there would always be ME to eat . '
` Well , I will come .
Lead the way , but I warn you that if you try to escape or play any tricks you are reckoning without your host -- that is to say , without my legs , which are as long as yours ! '
All was silent in the village , and not a light was to be seen but that of the moon , which shone bright and clear in the sky .
The wolf and the fox crept softly along , when suddenly they stopped and looked at each other ; a savoury smell of frying bacon reached their noses , and reached the noses of the sleeping dogs , who began to bark greedily .
` Is it safe to go on , think you ? '
asked the wolf in a whisper .
And the fox shook her head .
` Not while the dogs are barking , ' said she ; ` someone might come out to see if anything was the matter . '
And she signed to the wolf to curl himself up in the shadow beside her .
In about half an hour the dogs grew tired of barking , or perhaps the bacon was eaten up and there was no smell to excite them .
Then the wolf and the fox jumped up , and hastened to the foot of the wall . '
I am lighter than he is , ' thought the fox to herself , ` and perhaps if I make haste I can get a start , and jump over the wall on the other side before he manages to spring over this one . '
And she quickened her pace .
But if the wolf could not run he could jump , and with one bound he was beside his companion .
` What were you going to do , comrade ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' replied the fox , much vexed at the failure of her plan . '
I think if I were to take a bit out of your haunch you would jump better , ' said the wolf , giving a snap at her as he spoke .
The fox drew back uneasily .
` Be careful , or I shall scream , ' she snarled .
And the wolf , understanding all that might happen if the fox carried out her threat , gave a signal to his companion to leap on the wall , where he immediately followed her .
Once on the top they crouched down and looked about them .
Not a creature was to be seen in the courtyard , and in the furthest corner from the house stood the well , with its two buckets suspended from a pole , just as the fox had described it .
The two thieves dragged themselves noiselessly along the wall till they were opposite the well , and by stretching out her neck as far as it would go the fox was able to make out that there was only very little water in the bottom , but just enough to reflect the moon , big , and round and yellow .
` How lucky ! '
cried she to the wolf .
` There is a huge cheese about the size of a mill wheel .
Look !
look !
did you ever see anything so beautiful ! '
` Never ! '
answered the wolf , peering over in his turn , his eyes glistening greedily , for he imagined that the moon 's reflection in the water was really a cheese .
` And now , unbeliever , what have you to say ? '
and the fox laughed gently .
` That you are a woman -- I mean a fox -- of your word , ' replied the wolf .
` Well , then , go down in that bucket and eat your fill , ' said the fox .
` Oh , is that your game ? '
asked the wolf , with a grin .
` No !
no !
The person who goes down in the bucket will be you !
And if you do n't go down your head will go without you ! '
` Of course I will go down , with the greatest pleasure , ' answered the fox , who had expected the wolf 's reply .
` And be sure you do n't eat all the cheese , or it will be the worse for you , ' continued the wolf .
But the fox looked up at him with tears in her eyes .
` Farewell , suspicious one ! '
she said sadly .
And climbed into the bucket .
In an instant she had reached the bottom of the well , and found that the water was not deep enough to cover her legs .
` Why , it is larger and richer than I thought , ' cried she , turning towards the wolf , who was leaning over the wall of the well .
` Then be quick and bring it up , ' commanded the wolf .
` How can I , when it weighs more than I do ? '
asked the fox .
` If it is so heavy bring it in two bits , of course , ' said he .
` But I have no knife , ' answered the fox .
` You will have to come down yourself , and we will carry it up between us . '
` And how am I to come down ? '
inquired the wolf .
` Oh , you are really very stupid !
Get into the other bucket that is nearly over your head . '
The wolf looked up , and saw the bucket hanging there , and with some difficulty he climbed into it .
As he weighed at least four times as much as the fox the bucket went down with a jerk , and the other bucket , in which the fox was seated , came to the surface .
As soon as he understood what was happening , the wolf began to speak like an angry wolf , but was a little comforted when he remembered that the cheese still remained to him .
` But where is the cheese ? '
he asked of the fox , who in her turn was leaning over the parapet watching his proceedings with a smile .
` The cheese ? '
answered the fox ; ` why I am taking it home to my babies , who are too young to get food for themselves . '
` Ah , traitor ! '
cried the wolf , howling with rage .
But the fox was not there to hear this insult , for she had gone off to a neighbouring fowl-house , where she had noticed some fat young chickens the day before .
` Perhaps I did treat him rather badly , ' she said to herself .
` But it seems getting cloudy , and if there should be heavy rain the other bucket will fill and sink to the bottom , and his will go up -- at least it may ! '
How Ian Direach Got the Blue Falcon -LSB- From Cuentos Populares , por Antonio de Trueba . -RSB-
Long ago a king and queen ruled over the islands of the west , and they had one son , whom they loved dearly .
The boy grew up to be tall and strong and handsome , and he could run and shoot , and swim and dive better than any lad of his own age in the country .
Besides , he knew how to sail about , and sing songs to the harp , and during the winter evenings , when everyone was gathered round the huge hall fire shaping bows or weaving cloth , Ian Direach would tell them tales of the deeds of his fathers .
So the time slipped by till Ian was almost a man , as they reckoned men in those days , and then his mother the queen died .
There was great mourning throughout all the isles , and the boy and his father mourned her bitterly also ; but before the new year came the king had married another wife , and seemed to have forgotten his old one .
Only Ian remembered .
On a morning when the leaves were yellow in the trees of the glen , Ian slung his bow over his shoulder , and filling his quiver with arrows , went on to the hill in search of game .
But not a bird was to be seen anywhere , till at length a blue falcon flew past him , and raising his bow he took aim at her .
His eye was straight and his hand steady , but the falcon 's flight was swift , and he only shot a feather from her wing .
As the sun was now low over the sea he put the feather in his game bag , and set out homewards .
` Have you brought me much game to-day ? '
asked his stepmother as he entered the hall .
` Nought save this , ' he answered , handing her the feather of the blue falcon , which she held by the tip and gazed at silently .
Then she turned to Ian and said : ' I am setting it on you as crosses and as spells , and as the fall of the year !
That you may always be cold , and wet and dirty , and that your shoes may ever have pools in them , till you bring me hither the blue falcon on which that feather grew . '
` If it is spells you are laying I can lay them too , ' answered Ian Direach ; ` and you shall stand with one foot on the great house and another on the castle , till I come back again , and your face shall be to the wind , from wheresoever it shall blow . '
Then he went away to seek the bird , as his stepmother bade him ; and , looking homewards from the hill , he saw the queen standing with one foot on the great house , and the other on the castle , and her face turned towards whatever tempest should blow .
On he journeyed , over hills , and through rivers till he reached a wide plain , and never a glimpse did he catch of the falcon .
Darker and darker it grew , and the small birds were seeking their nests , and at length Ian Direach could see no more , and he lay down under some bushes and sleep came to him .
And in his dream a soft nose touched him , and a warm body curled up beside him , and a low voice whispered to him : ` Fortune is against you , Ian Direach ; I have but the cheek and the hoof of a sheep to give you , and with these you must be content . '
With that Ian Direach awoke , and beheld Gille Mairtean the fox .
Between them they kindled a fire , and ate their supper .
Then Gille Mairtean the fox bade Ian Direach lie down as before , and sleep till morning .
And in the morning , when he awoke , Gille Mairtean said : ` The falcon that you seek is in the keeping of the Giant of the Five Heads , and the Five Necks , and the Five Humps .
I will show you the way to his house , and I counsel you to do his bidding , nimbly and cheerfully , and , above all , to treat his birds kindly , for in this manner he may give you his falcon to feed and care for .
And when this happens , wait till the giant is out of his house ; then throw a cloth over the falcon and bear her away with you .
Only see that not one of her feathers touches anything within the house , or evil will befall you . ' '
I thank you for your counsel , ' spake Ian Direach , ` and I will be careful to follow it . '
Then he took the path to the giant 's house .
` Who is there ? '
cried the giant , as someone knocked loudly on the door of his house .
` One who seeks work as a servant , ' answered Ian Direach .
` And what can you do ? '
asked the giant again . '
I can feed birds and tend pigs ; I can feed and milk a cow , and also goats and sheep , if you have any of these , ' replied Ian Direach .
` Then enter , for I have great need of such a one , ' said the giant .
So Ian Direach entered , and tended so well and carefully all the birds and beasts , that the giant was better satisfied than ever he had been , and at length he thought that he might even be trusted to feed the falcon .
And the heart of Ian was glad , and he tended the blue falcon till his fathers shone like the sky , and the giant was well pleased ; and one day he said to him : ` For long my brothers on the other side of the mountain have besought me to visit them , but never could I go for fear of my falcon .
Now I think I can leave her with you for one day , and before nightfall I shall be back again . '
Scarcely was the giant out of sight next morning when Ian Direach seized the falcon , and throwing a cloth over her head hastened with her to the door .
But the rays of the sun pierced through the thickness of the cloth , and as they passed the doorpost she gave a spring , and the tip of one of her feathers touched the post , which gave a scream , and brought the giant back in three strides .
Ian Direach trembled as he saw him ; but the giant only said : ` If you wish for my falcon you must first bring me the White Sword of Light that is in the house of the Big Women of Dhiurradh . '
` And where do they live ? '
asked Ian .
But the giant answered : ` Ah , that is for you to discover . '
And Ian dared say no more , and hastened down to the waste .
There , as he hoped , he met his friend Gille Mairtean the fox , who bade him eat his supper and lie down to sleep .
And when he had wakened next morning the fox said to him : ` Let us go down to the shore of the sea . '
And to the shore of the sea they went .
And after they had reached the shore , and beheld the sea stretching before them , and the isle of Dhiurradh in the midst of it , the soul of Ian sank , and he turned to Gille Mairtean and asked why he had brought him thither , for the giant , when he had sent him , had known full well that without a boat he could never find the Big Women .
` Do not be cast down , ' answered the fox , ` it is quite easy !
I will change myself into a boat , and you shall go on board me , and I will carry you over the sea to the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh .
Tell them that you are skilled in brightening silver and gold , and in the end they will take you as servant , and if you are careful to please them they will give you the White Sword of Light to make bright and shining .
But when you seek to steal it , take heed that its sheath touches nothing inside the house , or ill will befall you . '
So Ian Direach did all things as the fox had told him , and the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh took him for their servant , and for six weeks he worked so hard that his seven mistresses said to each other : ` Never has a servant had the skill to make all bright and shining like this one .
Let us give him the White Sword of Light to polish like the rest . '
Then they brought forth the White Sword of Light from the iron closet where it hung , and bade him rub it till he could see his face in the shining blade ; and he did so .
But one day , when the Seven Big Women were out of the way , he bethought him that the moment had come for him to carry off the sword , and , replacing it in its sheath , he hoisted it on his shoulder .
But just as he was passing through the door the tip of the sheath touched it , and the door gave a loud shriek .
And the Big Women heard it , and came running back , and took the sword from him , and said : ` If it is our sword you want , you must first bring us the bay colt of the King of Erin . '
Humbled and ashamed , Ian Direach left the house , and sat by the side of the sea , and soon Gille Mairtean the fox came to him .
` Plainly I see that you have taken no heed to my words , Ian Direach , ' spoke the fox .
` But eat first , and yet once more will I help you . '
At these words the heart returned again to Ian Direach , and he gathered sticks and made a fire and ate with Gille Mairtean the fox , and slept on the sand .
At dawn next morning Gille Mairtean said to Ian Direach : ' I will change myself into a ship , and will bear you across the seas to Erin , to the land where dwells the king .
And you shall offer yourself to serve in his stable , and to tend his horses , till at length so well content is he , that he gives you the bay colt to wash and brush .
But when you run away with her see that nought except the soles of her hoofs touch anything within the palace gates , or it will go ill with you . '
After he had thus counselled Ian Direach , the fox changed himself into a ship , and set sail for Erin .
And the king of that country gave into Ian Direach 's hands the care of his horses , and never before did their skins shine so brightly or was their pace so swift .
And the king was well pleased , and at the end of a month he sent for Ian and said to him : ` You have given me faithful service , and now I will entrust you with the most precious thing that my kingdom holds . '
And when he had spoken , he led Ian Direach to the stable where stood the bay colt .
And Ian rubbed her and fed her , and galloped with her all round the country , till he could leave one wind behind him and catch the other which was in front . '
I am going away to hunt , ' said the king one morning while he was watching Ian tend the bay colt in her stable .
` The deer have come down from the hill , and it is time for me to give them chase . '
Then he went away ; and when he was no longer in sight , Ian Direach led the bay colt out of the stable , and sprang on her back .
But as they rode through the gate , which stood between the palace and the outer world , the colt swished her tail against the post , which shrieked loudly .
In a moment the king came running up , and he seized the colt 's bridle .
` If you want my bay colt , you must first bring me the daughter of the king of the Franks . '
With slow steps went Ian Direach down to the shore where Gille Mairtean the fox awaited him .
` Plainly I see that you have not done as I bid you , nor will you ever do it , ' spoke Gille Mairtean the fox ; ` but I will help you yet again for a third time I will change myself into a ship , and we will sail to France . '
And to France they sailed , and , as he was the ship , the Gille Mairtean sailed where he would , and ran himself into the cleft of a rock , high on to the land .
Then , he commanded Ian Direach to go up to the king 's palace , saying that he had been wrecked , that his ship was made fast in a rock , and that none had been saved but himself only .
Ian Direach listened to the words of the fox , and he told a tale so pitiful , that the king and queen , and the princess their daughter , all came out to hear it .
And when they had heard , nought would please them except to go down to the shore and visit the ship , which by now was floating , for the tide was up .
Torn and battered was she , as if she had passed through many dangers , yet music of a wondrous sweetness poured forth from within .
` Bring hither a boat , ' cried the princess , ` that I may go and see for myself the harp that gives forth such music . '
And a boat was brought , and Ian Direach stepped in to row it to the side of the ship .
To the further side he rowed , so that none could see , and when he helped the princess on board he gave a push to the boat , so that she could not get back to it again .
And the music sounded always sweeter , though they could never see whence it came , and sought it from one part of the vessel to another .
When at last they reached the deck and looked around them , nought of land could they see , or anything save the rushing waters .
The princess stood silent , and her face grew grim .
At last she said : ` An ill trick have you played me !
What is this that you have done , and whither are we going ? '
` It is a queen you will be , ' answered Ian Direach , ` for the king of Erin has sent me for you , and in return he will give me his bay colt , that I may take him to the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh , in exchange for the White Sword of Light .
This I must carry to the giant of the Five Heads and Five Necks and Five Humps , and , in place of it , he will bestow on me the blue falcon , which I have promised my stepmother , so that she may free me from the spell which she has laid on me . ' '
I would rather be wife to you , ' answered the princess .
By-and-by the ship sailed into a harbour on the coast of Erin , and cast anchor there .
And Gille Mairtean the fox bade Ian Direach tell the princess that she must bide yet a while in a cave amongst the rocks , for they had business on land , and after a while they would return to her .
Then they took a boat and rowed up to some rocks , and as they touched the land Gille Mairtean changed himself into a fair woman , who laughed , and said to Ian Direach , ' I will give the king a fine wife . '
Now the king of Erin had been hunting on the hill , and when he saw a strange ship sailing towards the harbour , he guessed that it might be Ian Direach , and left his hunting , and ran down to the hill to the stable .
Hastily he led the bay colt from his stall , and put the golden saddle on her back , and the silver bridle over his head , and with the colt 's bridle in his hand , he hurried to meet the princess . '
I have brought you the king of France 's daughter , ' said Ian Direach .
And the king of Erin looked at the maiden , and was well pleased , not knowing that it was Gille Mairtean the fox .
And he bowed low , and besought her to do him the honour to enter the palace ; and Gille Mairtean , as he went in , turned to look back at Ian Direach , and laughed .
In the great hall the king paused and pointed to an iron chest which stood in a corner .
` In that chest is the crown that has waited for you for many years , ' he said , ` and at last you have come for it . '
And he stooped down to unlock the box .
In an instant Gille Mairtean the fox had sprung on his back , and gave him such a bite that he fell down unconscious .
Quickly the fox took his own shape again , and galloped away to the sea shore , where Ian Direach and the princess and the bay colt awaited him . '
I will become a ship , ' cried Gille Mairtean , ` and you shall go on board me . '
And so he did , and Ian Direach let the bay colt into the ship and the princess went after them , and they set sail for Dhiurradh .
The wind was behind them , and very soon they saw the rocks of Dhiurradh in front .
Then spoke Gille Mairtean the fox : ` Let the bay colt and the king 's daughter hide in these rocks , and I will change myself into the colt , and go with you to the house of the Seven Big Women . '
Joy filed the hearts of the Big Women when they beheld the bay colt led up to their door by Ian Direach .
And the youngest of them fetched the White Sword of Light , and gave it into the hands of Ian Direach , who took off the golden saddle and the silver bridle , and went down the hill with the sword to the place where the princess and the real colt awaited him .
` Now we shall have the ride that we have longed for ! '
cried the Seven Big Women ; and they saddled and bridled the colt , and the eldest one got upon the saddle .
Then the second sister sat on the back of the first , and the third on the back of the second , and so on for the whole seven .
And when they were all seated , the eldest struck her side with a whip and the colt bounded forward .
Over the moors she flew , and round and round the mountains , and still the Big Women clung to her and snorted with pleasure .
At last she leapt high in the air , and came down on top of Monadh the high hill , where the crag is .
And she rested her fore feet on the crag , and threw up her hind legs , and the Seven Big Women fell over the crag , and were dead when they reached the bottom .
And the colt laughed , and became a fox again and galloped away to the sea shore , where Ian Direach , and the princess and the real colt and the White Sword of Light were awaiting him . '
I will make myself into a ship , ' said Gille Mairtean the fox , ` and will carry you and the princess , and the bay colt and the White Sword of Light , back to the land . '
And when the shore was reached , Gille Mairtean the fox took back his own shape , and spoke to Ian Direach in this wise : ` Let the princess and the White Sword of Light , and the bay colt , remain among the rocks , and I will change myself into the likeness of the White Sword of Light , and you shall bear me to the giant , and , instead , he will give you the blue falcon . '
And Ian Direach did as the fox bade him , and set out for the giant 's castle .
From afar the giant beheld the blaze of the White Sword of Light , and his heart rejoiced ; and he took the blue falcon and put it in a basket , and gave it to Ian Direach , who bore it swiftly away to the place where the princess , and the bay colt , and the real Sword of Light were awaiting him .
So well content was the giant to possess the sword he had coveted for many a year , that he began at once to whirl it through the air , and to cut and slash with it .
For a little while Gille Mairtean let the giant play with him in this manner ; then he turned in the giant 's hand , and cut through the Five Necks , so that the Five Heads rolled on the ground .
Afterwards he went back to Ian Direach and said to him : ` Saddle the colt with the golden saddle , and bridle her with the silver bridle , and sling the basket with the falcon over your shoulders , and hold the White Sword of Light with its back against your nose .
Then mount the colt , and let the princess mount behind you , and ride thus to your father 's palace .
But see that the back of the sword is ever against your nose , else when your stepmother beholds you , she will change you into a dry faggot .
If , however , you do as I bid you , she will become herself a bundle of sticks . '
Ian Direach hearkened to the words of Gille Mairtean , and his stepmother fell as a bundle of sticks before him ; and he set fire to her , and was free from her spells for ever .
After that he married the princess , who was the best wife in all the islands of the West .
Henceforth he was safe from harm , for had he not the bay colt who could leave one wind behind her and catch the other wind , and the blue falcon to bring him game to eat , and the White Sword of Light to pierce through his foes ?
And Ian Direach knew that all this he owed to Gille Mairtean the fox , and he made a compact with him that he might choose any beast out of his herds , whenever hunger seized him , and that henceforth no arrow should be let fly at him or at any of his race .
But Gille Mairtean the fox would take no reward for the help he had given to Ian Direach , only his friendship .
Thus all things prospered with Ian Direach till he died .
The Ugly Duckling -LSB- From Tales of the West Highlands . -RSB-
It was summer in the land of Denmark , and though for most of the year the country looks flat and ugly , it was beautiful now .
The wheat was yellow , the oats were green , the hay was dry and delicious to roll in , and from the old ruined house which nobody lived in , down to the edge of the canal , was a forest of great burdocks , so tall that a whole family of children might have dwelt in them and never have been found out .
It was under these burdocks that a duck had built herself a warm nest , and was not sitting all day on six pretty eggs .
Five of them were white , but the sixth , which was larger than the others , was of an ugly grey colour .
The duck was always puzzled about that egg , and how it came to be so different from the rest .
Other birds might have thought that when the duck went down in the morning and evening to the water to stretch her legs in a good swim , some lazy mother might have been on the watch , and have popped her egg into the nest .
But ducks are not clever at all , and are not quick at counting , so this duck did not worry herself about the matter , but just took care that the big egg should be as warm as the rest .
This was the first set of eggs that the duck had ever laid , and , to begin with , she was very pleased and proud , and laughed at the other mothers , who were always neglecting their duties to gossip with each other or to take little extra swims besides the two in the morning and evening that were necessary for health .
But at length she grew tired of sitting there all day .
` Surely eggs take longer hatching than they did , ' she said to herself ; and she pined for a little amusement also .
Still , she knew that if she left her eggs and the ducklings in them to die none of her friends would ever speak to her again ; so there she stayed , only getting off the eggs several times a day to see if the shells were cracking -- which may have been the very reason why they did not crack sooner .
She had looked at the eggs at least a hundred and fifty times , when , to her joy , she saw a tiny crack on two of them , and scrambling back to the nest she drew the eggs closer the one to the other , and never moved for the whole of that day .
Next morning she was rewarded by noticing cracks in the whole five eggs , and by midday two little yellow heads were poking out from the shells .
This encouraged her so much that , after breaking the shells with her bill , so that the little creatures could get free of them , she sat steadily for a whole night upon the nest , and before the sun arose the five white eggs were empty , and ten pairs of eyes were gazing out upon the green world .
Now the duck had been carefully brought up , and did not like dirt , and , besides , broken shells are not at all comfortable things to sit or walk upon ; so she pushed the rest out over the side , and felt delighted to have some company to talk to till the big egg hatched .
But day after day went on , and the big egg showed no signs of cracking , and the duck grew more and more impatient , and began to wish to consult her husband , who never came . '
I ca n't think what is the matter with it , ' the duck grumbled to her neighbour who had called in to pay her a visit .
` Why I could have hatched two broods in the time that this one has taken ! '
` Let me look at it , ' said the old neighbour .
` Ah , I thought so ; it is a turkey 's egg .
Once , when I was young , they tricked me to sitting on a brood of turkey 's eggs myself , and when they were hatched the creatures were so stupid that nothing would make them learn to swim .
I have no patience when I think of it . '
` Well , I will give it another chance , ' sighed the duck , ` and if it does not come out of its shell in another twenty-four hours , I will just leave it alone and teach the rest of them to swim properly and to find their own food .
I really ca n't be expected to do two things at once . '
And with a fluff of her feathers she pushed the egg into the middle of the nest .
All through the next day she sat on , giving up even her morning bath for fear that a blast of cold might strike the big egg .
In the evening , when she ventured to peep , she thought she saw a tiny crack in the upper part of the shell .
Filled with hope , she went back to her duties , though she could hardly sleep all night for excitement .
When she woke with the first steaks of light she felt something stirring under her .
Yes , there it was at last ; and as she moved , a big awkward bird tumbled head foremost on the ground .
There was no denying it was ugly , even the mother was forced to admit that to herself , though she only said it was ` large ' and ` strong . '
` You wo n't need any teaching when you are once in the water , ' she told him , with a glance of surprise at the dull brown which covered his back , and at his long naked neck .
And indeed he did not , though he was not half so pretty to look at as the little yellow balls that followed her .
When they returned they found the old neighbour on the bank waiting for them to take them into the duckyard .
` No , it is not a young turkey , certainly , ' whispered she in confidence to the mother , ` for though it is lean and skinny , and has no colour to speak of , yet there is something rather distinguished about it , and it holds its head up well . '
` It is very kind of you to say so , ' answered the mother , who by this time had some secret doubts of its loveliness .
` Of course , when you see it by itself it is all right , though it is different , somehow , from the others .
But one can not expect all one 's children to be beautiful ! '
By this time they had reached the centre of the yard , where a very old duck was sitting , who was treated with great respect by all the fowls present .
` You must go up and bow low before her , ' whispered the mother to her children , nodding her head in the direction of the old lady , ` and keep your legs well apart , as you see me do .
No well-bred duckling turns in its toes .
It is a sign of common parents . '
The little ducks tried hard to make their small fat bodies copy the movements of their mother , and the old lady was quite pleased with them ; but the rest of the ducks looked on discontentedly , and said to each other : ` Oh , dear me , here are ever so many more !
The yard is full already ; and did you ever see anything quite as ugly as that great tall creature ?
He is a disgrace to any brood .
I shall go and chase him out ! '
So saying she put up her feathers , and running to the big duckling bit his neck .
The duckling gave a loud quack ; it was the first time he had felt any pain , and at the sound his mother turned quickly .
` Leave him alone , ' she said fiercely , ` or I will send for his father .
He was not troubling you . '
` No ; but he is so ugly and awkward no one can put up with him , ' answered the stranger .
And though the duckling did not understand the meaning of the words , he felt he was being blamed , and became more uncomfortable still when the old Spanish duck who ruled the fowlyard struck in : ` It certainly is a great pity he is so different from these beautiful darlings .
If he could only be hatched over again ! '
The poor little fellow drooped his head , and did not know where to look , but was comforted when his mother answered : ` He may not be quite as handsome as the others , but he swims better , and is very strong ; I am sure he will make his way in the world as well as anybody . '
` Well , you must feel quite at home here , ' said the old duck waddling off .
And so they did , all except the duckling , who was snapped at by everyone when they thought his mother was not looking .
Even the turkey-cock , who was so big , never passed him without mocking words , and his brothers and sisters , who would not have noticed any difference unless it had been put into their heads , soon became as rude and unkind as the rest .
At last he could bear it no longer , and one day he fancied he saw signs of his mother turning against him too ; so that night , when the ducks and hens were still asleep , he stole away through an open door , and under cover of the burdock leaves scrambled on by the bank of the canal , till he reached a wide grassy moor , full of soft marshy places where the reeds grew .
Here he lay down , but he was too tired and too frightened to fall asleep , and with the earliest peep of the sun the reeds began to rustle , and he saw that he had blundered into a colony of wild ducks .
But as he could not run away again he stood up and bowed politely .
` You are ugly , ' said the wild ducks , when they had looked him well over ; ` but , however , it is no business of ours , unless you wish to marry one of our daughters , and that we should not allow . '
And the duckling answered that he had no idea of marrying anybody , and wanted nothing but to be left alone after his long journey .
So for two whole days he lay quietly among the reeds , eating such food as he could find , and drinking the water of the moorland pool , till he felt himself quite strong again .
He wished he might stay were he was for ever , he was so comfortable and happy , away from everyone , with nobody to bite him and tell him how ugly he was .
He was thinking these thoughts , when two young ganders caught sight of him as they were having their evening splash among the reeds , looking for their supper .
` We are getting tired of this moor , ' they said , ` and to-morrow we think of trying another , where the lakes are larger and the feeding better .
Will you come with us ? '
` Is it nicer than this ? '
asked the duckling doubtfully .
And the words were hardly out of his mouth , when ` Pif !
pah ! '
and the two new-comers were stretched dead beside him .
At the sound of the gun the wild ducks in the rushes flew into the air , and for a few minutes the firing continued .
Luckily for himself the duckling could not fly , and he floundered along through the water till he could hide himself amidst some tall ferns which grew in a hollow .
But before he got there he met a huge creature on four legs , which he afterwards knew to be a dog , who stood and gazed at him with a long red tongue hanging out of his mouth .
The duckling grew cold with terror , and tried to hide his head beneath his little wings ; but the dog snuffed at him and passed on , and he was able to reach his place of shelter . '
I am too ugly even for a dog to eat , ' said he to himself .
` Well , that is a great mercy . '
And he curled himself up in the soft grass till the shots died away in the distance .
When all had been quiet for a long time , and there were only stars to see him , he crept out and looked about him .
He would never go near a pool again , never , thought he ; and seeing that the moor stretched far away in the opposite direction from which he had come , he marched bravely on till he got to a small cottage , which seemed too tumbledown for the stones to hold together many hours longer .
Even the door only hung upon one hinge , and as the only light in the room sprang from a tiny fire , the duckling edged himself cautiously in , and lay down under a chair close to the broken door , from which he could get out if necessary .
But no one seemed to see him or smell him ; so he spend the rest of the night in peace .
Now in the cottage dwelt an old woman , her cat , and a hen ; and it was really they , and not she , who were masters of the house .
The old woman , who passed all her days in spinning yarn , which she sold at the nearest town , loved both the cat and the hen as her own children , and never contradicted them in any way ; so it was their grace , and not hers , that the duckling would have to gain .
It was only next morning , when it grew light , that they noticed their visitor , who stood trembling before them , with his eye on the door ready to escape at any moment .
They did not , however , appear very fierce , and the duckling became less afraid as they approached him .
` Can you lay eggs ? '
asked the hen .
And the duckling answered meekly : ` No ; I do n't know how . '
Upon which the hen turned her back , and the cat came forward .
` Can you ruffle your fur when you are angry , or purr when you are pleased ? '
said she .
And again the duckling had to admit that he could do nothing but swim , which did not seem of much use to anybody .
So the cat and the hen went straight off to the old woman , who was still in bed .
` Such a useless creature has taken refuge here , ' they said .
` It calls itself a duckling ; but it can neither lay eggs nor purr !
What had we better do with it ? '
` Keep it , to be sure ! '
replied the old woman briskly .
` It is all nonsense about it not laying eggs .
Anyway , we will let it stay here for a bit , and see what happens . '
So the duckling remained for three weeks , and shared the food of the cat and the hen ; but nothing in the way of eggs happened at all .
Then the sun came out , and the air grew soft , and the duckling grew tired of being in a hut , and wanted with all his might to have a swim .
And one morning he got so restless that even his friends noticed it .
` What is the matter ? '
asked the hen ; and the duckling told her . '
I am so longing for the water again .
You ca n't think how delicious it is to put your head under the water and dive straight to the bottom . ' '
I do n't think I should enjoy it , ' replied the hen doubtfully .
` And I do n't think the cat would like it either . '
And the cat , when asked , agreed there was nothing she would hate so much . '
I ca n't stay here any longer , I Must get to the water , ' repeated the duck .
And the cat and the hen , who felt hurt and offended , answered shortly : ` Very well then , go . '
The duckling would have liked to say good-bye , and thank them for their kindness , as he was polite by nature ; but they had both turned their backs on him , so he went out of the rickety door feeling rather sad .
But , in spite of himself , he could not help a thrill of joy when he was out in the air and water once more , and cared little for the rude glances of the creatures he met .
For a while he was quite happy and content ; but soon the winter came on , and snow began to fall , and everything to grow very wet and uncomfortable .
And the duckling soon found that it is one thing to enjoy being in the water , and quite another to like being damp on land .
The sun was setting one day , like a great scarlet globe , and the river , to the duckling 's vast bewilderment , was getting hard and slippery , when he heard a sound of whirring wings , and high up in the air a flock of swans were flying .
They were as white as snow which had fallen during the night , and their long necks with yellow bills were stretched southwards , for they were going -- they did not quite know whither -- but to a land where the sun shone all day .
Oh , if he only could have gone with them !
But that was not possible , of course ; and besides , what sort of companion could an ugly thing like him be to those beautiful beings ?
So he walked sadly down to a sheltered pool and dived to the very bottom , and tried to think it was the greatest happiness he could dream of .
But , all the same , he knew it was n't !
And every morning it grew colder and colder , and the duckling had hard work to keep himself warm .
Indeed , it would be truer to say that he never was warm at all ; and at last , after one bitter night , his legs moved so slowly that the ice crept closer and closer , and when the morning light broke he was caught fast , as in a trap ; and soon his senses went from him .
A few hours more and the poor duckling 's life had been ended .
But , by good fortune , a man was crossing the river on his way to his work , and saw in a moment what had happened .
He had on thick wooden shoes , and he went and stamped so hard on the ice that it broke , and then he picked up the duckling and tucked him under his sheepskin coat , where his frozen bones began to thaw a little .
Instead of going on his work , the man turned back and took the bird to his children , who gave him a warm mess to eat and put him in a box by the fire , and when they came back from school he was much more comfortable than he had been since he had left the old woman 's cottage .
They were kind little children , and wanted to play with him ; but , alas !
the poor fellow had never played in his life , and thought they wanted to tease him , and flew straight into the milk-pan , and then into the butter-dish , and from that into the meal-barrel , and at last , terrified at the noise and confusion , right out of the door , and hid himself in the snow amongst the bushes at the back of the house .
He never could tell afterwards exactly how he had spent the rest of the winter .
He only knew that he was very miserable and that he never had enough to eat .
But by-and-by things grew better .
The earth became softer , the sun hotter , the birds sang , and the flowers once more appeared in the grass .
When he stood up , he felt different , somehow , from what he had done before he fell asleep among the reeds to which he had wandered after he had escaped from the peasant 's hut .
His body seemed larger , and his wings stronger .
Something pink looked at him from the side of a hill .
He thought he would fly towards it and see what it was .
Oh , how glorious it felt to be rushing through the air , wheeling first one way and then the other !
He had never thought that flying could be like that !
The duckling was almost sorry when he drew near the pink cloud and found it was made up of apple blossoms growing beside a cottage whose garden ran down to the banks of the canal .
He fluttered slowly to the ground and paused for a few minutes under a thicket of syringas , and while he was gazing about him , there walked slowly past a flock of the same beautiful birds he had seen so many months ago .
Fascinated , he watched them one by one step into the canal , and float quietly upon the waters as if they were part of them . '
I will follow them , ' said the duckling to himself ; ` ugly though I am , I would rather be killed by them than suffer all I have suffered from cold and hunger , and from the ducks and fowls who should have treated me kindly . '
And flying quickly down to the water , he swam after them as fast as he could .
It did not take him long to reach them , for they had stopped to rest in a green pool shaded by a tree whose branches swept the water .
And directly they saw him coming some of the younger ones swam out to meet him with cries of welcome , which again the duckling hardly understood .
He approached them glad , yet trembling , and turning to one of the older birds , who by this time had left the shade of the tree , he said : ` If I am to die , I would rather you should kill me .
I do n't know why I was ever hatched , for I am too ugly to live . '
And as he spoke , he bowed his head and looked down into the water .
Reflected in the still pool he saw many white shapes , with long necks and golden bills , and , without thinking , he looked for the dull grey body and the awkward skinny neck .
But no such thing was there .
Instead , he beheld beneath him a beautiful white swan !
` The new one is the best of all , ' said the children when they came down to feed the swans with biscuit and cake before going to bed .
` His feathers are whiter and his beak more golden than the rest . '
And when he heard that , the duckling thought that it was worth while having undergone all the persecution and loneliness that he had passed through , as otherwise he would never have known what it was to be really happy .
The Two Caskets -LSB- Hans Andersen . -RSB-
Far , far away , in the midst of a pine forest , there lived a woman who had both a daughter and a stepdaughter .
Ever since her own daughter was born the mother had given her all that she cried for , so she grew up to be as cross and disagreeable as she was ugly .
Her stepsister , on the other hand , had spent her childhood in working hard to keep house for her father , who died soon after his second marriage ; and she was as much beloved by the neighbours for her goodness and industry as she was for her beauty .
As the years went on , the difference between the two girls grew more marked , and the old woman treated her stepdaughter worse than ever , and was always on the watch for some pretext for beating her , or depriving her of her food .
Anything , however foolish , was good enough for this , and one day , when she could think of nothing better , she set both the girls to spin while sitting on the low wall of the well .
` And you had better mind what you do , ' said she , ` for the one whose thread breaks first shall be thrown to the bottom . '
But of course she took good care that her own daughter 's flax was fine and strong , while the stepsister had only some coarse stuff , which no one would have thought of using .
As might be expected , in a very little while the poor girl 's thread snapped , and the old woman , who had been watching from behind a door , seized her stepdaughter by her shoulders , and threw her into the well .
` That is an end of you ! '
she said .
But she was wrong , for it was only the beginning .
Down , down , down went the girl -- it seemed as if the well must reach to the very middle of the earth ; but at last her feet touched the ground , and she found herself in a field more beautiful than even the summer pastures of her native mountains .
Trees waved in the soft breeze , and flowers of the brightest colours danced in the grass .
And though she was quite alone , the girl 's heart danced too , for she felt happier than she had since her father died .
So she walked on through the meadow till she came to an old tumbledown fence -- so old that it was a wonder it managed to stand up at all , and it looked as if it depended for support on the old man 's beard that climbed all over it .
The girl paused for a moment as she came up , and gazed about for a place where she might safely cross .
But before she could move a voice cried from the fence : ` Do not hurt me , little maiden ; I am so old , so old , I have not much longer to live . '
And the maiden answered : ` No , I will not hurt you ; fear nothing . '
And then seeing a spot where the clematis grew less thickly than in other places , she jumped lightly over .
` May all go well with thee , ' said the fence , as the girl walked on .
She soon left the meadow and turned into a path which ran between two flowery hedges .
Right in front of her stood an oven , and through its open door she could see a pile of white loaves .
` Eat as many loaves as you like , but do me no harm , little maiden , ' cried the oven .
And the maiden told her to fear nothing , for she never hurt anything , and was very grateful for the oven 's kindness in giving her such a beautiful white loaf .
When she had finished it , down to the last crumb , she shut the oven door and said : ` Good-morning . '
` May all go well with thee , ' said the oven , as the girl walked on .
By-and-by she became very thirsty , and seeing a cow with a milk-pail hanging on her horn , turned towards her .
` Milk me and drink as much as you will , little maiden , ' cried the cow , ` but be sure you spill none on the ground ; and do me no harm , for I have never harmed anyone . '
` Nor I , ' answered the girl ; ` fear nothing . '
So she sat down and milked till the pail was nearly full .
Then she drank it all up except a little drop at the bottom .
` Now throw any that is left over my hoofs , and hang the pail on my horns again , ' said the cow .
And the girl did as she was bid , and kissed the cow on her forehead and went her way .
Many hours had now passed since the girl had fallen down the well , and the sun was setting .
` Where shall I spend the night ? '
thought she .
And suddenly she saw before her a gate which she had not noticed before , and a very old woman leaning against it .
` Good evening , ' said the girl politely ; and the old woman answered : ` Good evening , my child .
Would that everyone was as polite as you .
Are you in search of anything ? ' '
I am in search of a place , ' replied the girl ; and the woman smiled and said : ` Then stop a little while and comb my hair , and you shall tell me all the things you can do . '
` Willingly , mother , ' answered the girl .
And she began combing out the old woman 's hair , which was long and white .
Half an hour passed in this way , and then the old woman said : ` As you did not think yourself too good to comb me , I will show you where you may take service .
Be prudent and patient and all will go well . '
So the girl thanked her , and set out for a farm at a little distance , where she was engaged to milk the cows and sift the corn .
As soon as it was light next morning the girl got up and went into the cow-house .
` I 'm sure you must be hungry , ' said she , patting each in turn .
And then she fetched hay from the barn , and while they were eating it , she swept out the cow-house , and strewed clean straw upon the floor .
The cows were so pleased with the care she took of them that they stood quite still while she milked them , and did not play any of the tricks on her that they had played on other dairymaids who were rough and rude .
And when she had done , and was going to get up from her stool , she found sitting round her a whole circle of cats , black and white , tabby and tortoise-shell , who all cried with one voice : ` We are very thirsty , please give us some milk ! '
` My poor little pussies , ' said she , ` of course you shall have some . '
And she went into the dairy , followed by all the cats , and gave each one a little red saucerful .
But before they drank they all rubbed themselves against her knees and purred by way of thanks .
The next thing the girl had to do was to go to the storehouse , and to sift the corn through a sieve .
While she was busy rubbing the corn she heard a whirr of wings , and a flock of sparrows flew in at the window .
` We are hungry ; give us some corn !
give us some corn ! '
cried they ; and the girl answered : ` You poor little birds , of course you shall have some ! '
and scattered a fine handful over the floor .
When they had finished they flew on her shoulders and flapped their wings by way of thanks .
Time went by , and no cows in the whole country-side were so fat and well tended as hers , and no dairy had so much milk to show .
The farmer 's wife was so well satisfied that she gave her higher wages , and treated her like her own daughter .
At length , one day , the girl was bidden by her mistress to come into the kitchen , and when there , the old woman said to her : ' I know you can tend cows and keep a diary ; now let me see what you can do besides .
Take this sieve to the well , and fill it with water , and bring it home to me without spilling one drop by the way . '
The girl 's heart sank at this order ; for how was it possible for her to do her mistress 's bidding ?
However , she was silent , and taking the sieve went down to the well with it .
Stopping over the side , she filled it to the brim , but as soon as she lifted it the water all ran out of the holes .
Again and again she tried , but not a drop would remaining in the sieve , and she was just turning away in despair when a flock of sparrows flew down from the sky .
` Ashes !
ashes ! '
they twittered ; and the girl looked at them and said : ` Well , I ca n't be in a worse plight than I am already , so I will take your advice . '
And she ran back to the kitchen and filled her sieve with ashes .
Then once more she dipped the sieve into the well , and , behold , this time not a drop of water disappeared !
` Here is the sieve , mistress , ' cried the girl , going to the room where the old woman was sitting .
` You are cleverer than I expected , ' answered she ; ` or else someone helped you who is skilled in magic . '
But the girl kept silence , and the old woman asked her no more questions .
Many days passed during which the girl went about her work as usual , but at length one day the old woman called her and said : ' I have something more for you to do .
There are here two yarns , the one white , the other black .
What you must do is to wash them in the river till the black one becomes white and the white black . '
And the girl took them to the river and washed hard for several hours , but wash as she would they never changed one whit .
` This is worse than the sieve , ' thought she , and was about to give up in despair when there came a rush of wings through the air , and on every twig of the birch trees which grew by the bank was perched a sparrow .
` The black to the east , the white to the west ! '
they sang , all at once ; and the girl dried her tears and felt brave again .
Picking up the black yarn , she stood facing the east and dipped it in the river , and in an instant it grew white as snow , then turning to the west , she held the white yarn in the water , and it became as black as a crow 's wing .
She looked back at the sparrows and smiled and nodded to them , and flapping their wings in reply they flew swiftly away .
At the sight of the yarn the old woman was struck dumb ; but when at length she found her voice she asked the girl what magician had helped her to do what no one had done before .
But she got no answer , for the maiden was afraid of bringing trouble on her little friends .
For many weeks the mistress shut herself up in her room , and the girl went about her work as usual .
She hoped that there was an end to the difficult tasks which had been set her ; but in this she was mistaken , for one day the old woman appeared suddenly in the kitchen , and said to her : ` There is one more trial to which I must put you , and if you do not fail in that you will be left in peace for evermore .
Here are the yarns which you washed .
Take them and weave them into a web that is as smooth as a king 's robe , and see that it is spun by the time that the sun sets . '
` This is the easiest thing I have been set to do , ' thought the girl , who was a good spinner .
But when she began she found that the skein tangled and broke every moment .
` Oh , I can never do it ! '
she cried at last , and leaned her head against the loom and wept ; but at that instant the door opened , and there entered , one behind another , a procession of cats .
` What is the matter , fair maiden ? '
asked they .
And the girl answered : ` My mistress has given me this yarn to weave into a piece of cloth , which must be finished by sunset , and I have not even begun yet , for the yarn breaks whenever I touch it . '
` If that is all , dry your eyes , ' said the cats ; ` we will manage it for you . '
And they jumped on the loom , and wove so fast and so skilfully that in a very short time the cloth was ready and was as fine as any king ever wore .
The girl was so delighted at the sight of it that she gave each cat a kiss on his forehead as they left the room behind one the other as they had come .
` Who has taught you this wisdom ? '
asked the old woman , after she had passed her hands twice or thrice over the cloth and could find no roughness anywhere .
But the girl only smiled and did not answer .
She had learned early the value of silence .
After a few weeks the old woman sent for her maid and told her that as her year of service was now up , she was free to return home , but that , for her part , the girl had served her so well that she hoped she might stay with her .
But at these words the maid shook her head , and answered gently : ' I have been happy here , Madam , and I thank you for your goodness to me ; but I have left behind me a stepsister and a stepmother , and I am fain to be with them once more . '
The old woman looked at her for a moment , and then she said : ` Well , that must be as you like ; but as you have worked faithfully for me I will give you a reward .
Go now into the loft above the store house and there you will find many caskets .
Choose the one which pleases you best , but be careful not to open it till you have set it in the place where you wish it to remain . '
The girl left the room to go to the loft , and as soon as she got outside , she found all the cats waiting for her .
Walking in procession , as was their custom , they followed her into the loft , which was filled with caskets big and little , plain and splendid .
She lifted up one and looked at it , and then put it down to examine another yet more beautiful .
Which should she choose , the yellow or the blue , the red or the green , the gold or the silver ?
She hesitated long , and went first to one and then to another , when she heard the cats ' voices calling : ` Take the black !
take the black ! '
The words make her look round -- she had seen no black casket , but as the cats continued their cry she peered into several corners that had remained unnoticed , and at length discovered a little black box , so small and so black , that it might easily have been passed over .
` This is the casket that pleases me best , mistress , ' said the girl , carrying it into the house .
And the old woman smiled and nodded , and bade her go her way .
So the girl set forth , after bidding farewell to the cows and the cats and the sparrows , who all wept as they said good-bye .
She walked on and on and on , till she reached the flowery meadow , and there , suddenly , something happened , she never knew what , but she was sitting on the wall of the well in her stepmother 's yard .
Then she got up and entered the house .
The woman and her daughter stared as if they had been turned into stone ; but at length the stepmother gasped out : ` So you are alive after all !
Well , luck was ever against me !
And where have you been this year past ? '
Then the girl told how she had taken service in the under-world , and , beside her wages , had brought home with her a little casket , which she would like to set up in her room .
` Give me the money , and take the ugly little box off to the outhouse , ' cried the woman , beside herself with rage , and the girl , quite frightened at her violence , hastened away , with her precious box clasped to her bosom .
The outhouse was in a very dirty state , as no one had been near it since the girl had fallen down the well ; but she scrubbed and swept till everything was clean again , and then she placed the little casket on a small shelf in the corner .
` Now I may open it , ' she said to herself ; and unlocking it with the key which hung to its handle , she raised the lid , but started back as she did so , almost blinded by the light that burst upon her .
No one would ever have guessed that that little black box could have held such a quantity of beautiful things !
Rings , crowns , girdles , necklaces -- all made of wonderful stones ; and they shone with such brilliance that not only the stepmother and her daughter but all the people round came running to see if the house was on fire .
Of course the woman felt quite ill with greed and envy , and she would have certainly taken all the jewels for herself had she not feared the wrath of the neighbours , who loved her stepdaughter as much as they hated her .
But if she could not steal the casket and its contents for herself , at least she could get another like it , and perhaps a still richer one .
So she bade her own daughter sit on the edge of the well , and threw her into the water , exactly as she had done to the other girl ; and , exactly as before , the flowery meadow lay at the bottom .
Every inch of the way she trod the path which her stepsister had trodden , and saw the things which she had seen ; but there the likeness ended .
When the fence prayed her to do it no harm , she laughed rudely , and tore up some of the stakes so that she might get over the more easily ; when the oven offered her bread , she scattered the loaves onto the ground and stamped on them ; and after she had milked the cow , and drunk as much as she wanted , she threw the rest on the grass , and kicked the pail to bits , and never heard them say , as they looked after her : ` You shall not have done this to me for nothing ! '
Towards evening she reached the spot where the old woman was leaning against the gate-post , but she passed her by without a word .
` Have you no manners in your country ? '
asked the crone . '
I ca n't stop and talk ; I am in a hurry , ' answered the girl .
` It is getting late , and I have to find a place . '
` Stop and comb my hair for a little , ' said the old woman , ` and I will help you to get a place . '
` Comb your hair , indeed !
I have something better to do than that ! '
And slamming the gate in the crone 's face she went her way .
And she never heard the words that followed her : ` You shall not have done this to me for nothing ! '
By-and-by the girl arrived at the farm , and she was engaged to look after the cows and sift the corn as her stepsister had been .
But it was only when someone was watching her that she did her work ; at other times the cow-house was dirty , and the cows ill-fed and beaten , so that they kicked over the pail , and tried to butt her ; and everyone said they had never seen such thin cows or such poor milk .
As for the cats , she chased them away , and ill-treated them , so that they had not even the spirit to chase the rats and mice , which nowadays ran about everywhere .
And when the sparrows came to beg for some corn , they fared no better than the cows and the cats , for the girl threw her shoes at them , till they flew in a fright to the woods , and took shelter amongst the trees .
Months passed in this manner , when , one day , the mistress called the girl to her .
` All that I have given you to do you have done ill , ' said she , ` yet will I give you another chance .
For though you can not tend cows , or divide the grain from the chaff , there may be other things that you can do better .
Therefore take this sieve to the well , and fill it with water , and see that you bring it back without spilling a drop . '
The girl took the sieve and carried it to the well as her sister had done ; but no little birds came to help her , and after dipping it in the well two or three times she brought it back empty . '
I thought as much , ' said the old woman angrily ; ` she that is useless in one thing is useless in another . '
Perhaps the mistress may have thought that the girl had learnt a lesson , but , if she did , she was quite mistaken , as the work was no better done than before .
By-and-by she sent for her again , and gave her maid the black and white yarn to wash in the river ; but there was no one to tell her the secret by which the black would turn white , and the white black ; so she brought them back as they were .
This time the old woman only looked at her grimly but the girl was too well pleased with herself to care what anyone thought about her .
After some weeks her third trial came , and the yarn was given her to spin , as it had been given to her stepsister before her .
But no procession of cats entered the room to weave a web of fine cloth , and at sunset she only brought back to her mistress an armful of dirty , tangled wool .
` There seems nothing in the world you can do , ' said the old woman , and left her to herself .
Soon after this the year was up , and the girl went to her mistress to tell her that she wished to go home .
` Little desire have I to keep you , ' answered the old woman , ` for no one thing have you done as you ought .
Still , I will give you some payment , therefore go up into the loft , and choose for yourself one of the caskets that lies there .
But see that you do not open it till you place it where you wish it to stay . '
This was what the girl had been hoping for , and so rejoiced was she , that , without even stopping to thank the old woman , she ran as fast as she could to the loft .
There were the caskets , blue and red , green and yellow , silver and gold ; and there in the corner stood a little black casket just like the one her stepsister had brought home .
` If there are so many jewels in that little black thing , this big red one will hold twice the number , ' she said to herself ; and snatching it up she set off on her road home without even going to bid farewell to her mistress .
` See , mother , see what I have brought ! '
cried she , as she entered the cottage holding the casket in both hands .
` Ah !
you have got something very different from that little black box , ' answered the old woman with delight .
But the girl was so busy finding a place for it to stand that she took little notice of her mother .
` It will look best here -- no , here , ' she said , setting it first on one piece of furniture and then on another .
` No , after all it is to fine to live in a kitchen , let us place it in the guest chamber . '
So mother and daughter carried it proudly upstairs and put it on a shelf over the fireplace ; then , untying the key from the handle , they opened the box .
As before , a bright light leapt out directly the lid was raised , but it did not spring from the lustre of jewels , but from hot flames , which darted along the walls and burnt up the cottage and all that was in it and the mother and daughter as well .
As they had done when the stepdaughter came home , the neighbours all hurried to see what was the matter ; but they were too late .
Only the hen-house was left standing ; and , in spite of her riches , there the stepdaughter lived happily to the end of her days .
The Goldsmith 's Fortune -LSB- From Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
Once upon a time there was a goldsmith who lived in a certain village where the people were as bad and greedy , and covetous , as they could possibly be ; however , in spite of his surroundings , he was fat and prosperous .
He had only one friend whom he liked , and that was a cowherd , who looked after cattle for one of the farmers in the village .
Every evening the goldsmith would walk across to the cowherd 's house and say : ` Come , let 's go out for a walk ! '
Now the cowherd did n't like walking in the evening , because , he said , he had been out grazing the cattle all day , and was glad to sit down when night came ; but the goldsmith always worried him so that the poor man had to go against his will .
This at last so annoyed him that he tried to think how he could pick a quarrel with the goldsmith , so that he should not beg him to walk with him any more .
He asked another cowherd for advice , and he said the best thing he could do was to go across and kill the goldsmith 's wife , for then the goldsmith would be sure to regard him as an enemy ; so , being a foolish person , and there being no laws in that country by which a man would be certainly punished for such a crime , the cowherd one evening took a big stick and went across to the goldsmith 's house when only Mrs. Goldsmith was at home , and banged her on the head so hard that she died then and there .
When the goldsmith came back and found his wife dead he said nothing , but just took her outside into the dark lane and propped her up against the wall of his house , and then went into the courtyard and waited .
Presently a rich stranger came along the lane , and seeing someone there , as he supposed , he said : ` Good-evening , friend !
a fine night to-night ! '
But the goldsmith 's wife said nothing .
The man then repeated his words louder ; but still there was no reply .
A third time he shouted : ` Good-evening , friend !
are you deaf ? '
but the figure never replied .
Then the stranger , being angry at what he thought very rude behaviour , picked up a big stone and threw it at Mrs. Goldsmith , crying : ` Let that teach you manners ! '
Instantly poor Mrs. Goldsmith tumbled over ; and the stranger , horrified at seeing what he had done , was immediately seized by the goldsmith , who ran out screaming : ` Wretch !
you have killed my wife !
Oh , miserable one ; we will have justice done to thee ! '
With many protestations and reproaches they wrangled together , the stranger entreating the goldsmith to say nothing and he would pay him handsomely to atone for the sad accident .
At last the goldsmith quieted down , and agreed to accept one thousand gold pieces from the stranger , who immediately helped him to bury his poor wife , and then rushed off to the guest house , packed up his things and was off by daylight , lest the goldsmith should repent and accuse him as the murderer of his wife .
Now it very soon appeared that the goldsmith had a lot of extra money , so that people began to ask questions , and finally demanded of him the reason for his sudden wealth .
` Oh , ' said he , ` my wife died , and I sold her . '
` You sold your dead wife ? '
cried the people .
` Yes , ' said the goldsmith .
` For how much ? ' '
A thousand gold pieces , ' replied the goldsmith .
Instantly the villagers went away and each caught hold of his own wife and throttled her , and the next day they all went off to sell their dead wives .
Many a weary mile did they tramp , but got nothing but hard words or laughter , or directions to the nearest cemetery , from people to whom they offered dead wives for sale .
At last they perceived that they had been cheated somehow by that goldsmith .
So off they rushed home , seized the unhappy man , and , without listening to his cries and entreaties , hurried him down to the river bank and flung him -- plop !
-- into the deepest , weediest , and nastiest place they could find .
` That will teach him to play tricks on us , ' said they .
` For as he ca n't swim he 'll drown , and we sha 'n' t have any more trouble with him ! '
Now the goldsmith really could not swim , and as soon as he was thrown into the deep river he sank below the surface ; so his enemies went away believing that they had seen the last of him .
But , in reality , he was carried down , half drowned , below the next bend in the river , where he fortunately came across a ` snag ' floating in the water -LRB- a snag is , you know , a part of a tree or bush which floats very nearly under the surface of the water -RRB- ; and he held on to this snag , and by great good luck eventually came ashore some two or three miles down the river .
At the place where he landed he came across a fine fat cow buffalo , and immediately he jumped on her back and rode home .
When the village people saw him , they ran out in surprise , and said : ` Where on earth do you come from , and where did you get that buffalo ? '
` Ah ! '
said the goldsmith , ` you little know what delightful adventures I have had !
Why , down in that place in the river where you threw me in I found meadows , and trees , and fine pastures , and buffaloes , and all kinds of cattle .
In fact , I could hardly tear myself away ; but I thought that I must really let you all know about it . '
` Oh , oh ! '
thought the greedy village people ; ` if there are buffaloes to be had for the taking we 'll go after some too . '
Encouraged by the goldsmith they nearly all ran off the very next morning to the river ; and , in order that they might get down quickly to the beautiful place the goldsmith told them of , they tied great stones on to their feet and their necks , and one after another they jumped into the water as fast as the could , and were drowned .
And whenever any one of them waved his hands about and struggled the goldsmith would cry out : ` Look !
he 's beckoning the rest of you to come ; he 's got a fine buffalo ! '
And others who were doubtful would jump in , until not one was left .
Then the cunning goldsmith went back and took all the village for himself , and became very rich indeed .
But do you think he was happy ?
Not a bit .
Lies never made a man happy yet .
Truly , he got the better of a set of wicked and greedy people , but only by being wicked and greedy himself ; and , as it turned out , when he got so rich he got very fat ; and at last was so fat that he could n't move , and one day he got the apoplexy and died , and no one in the world cared the least bit .
The Enchanted Wreath -LSB- Told by a Pathan to Major Campbell . -RSB-
Once upon a time there lived near a forest a man and his wife and two girls ; one girl was the daughter of the man , and the other the daughter of his wife ; and the man 's daughter was good and beautiful , but the woman 's daughter was cross and ugly .
However , her mother did not know that , but thought her the most bewitching maiden that ever was seen .
One day the man called to his daughter and bade her come with him into the forest to cut wood .
They worked hard all day , but in spite of the chopping they were very cold , for it rained heavily , and when they returned home , they were wet through .
Then , to his vexation , the man found that he had left his axe behind him , and he knew that if it lay all night in the mud it would become rusty and useless .
So he said to his wife : ' I have dropped my axe in the forest , bid your daughter go and fetch it , for mine has worked hard all day and is both wet and weary . '
But the wife answered : ` If your daughter is wet already , it is all the more reason that she should go and get the axe .
Besides , she is a great strong girl , and a little rain will not hurt her , while my daughter would be sure to catch a bad cold . '
By long experience the man knew there was no good saying any more , and with a sigh he told the poor girl she must return to the forest for the axe .
The walk took some time , for it was very dark , and her shoes often stuck in the mud , but she was brave as well as beautiful and never thought of turning back merely because the path was both difficult and unpleasant .
At last , with her dress torn by brambles that she could not see , and her fact scratched by the twigs on the trees , she reached the spot where she and her father had been cutting in the morning , and found the axe in the place he had left it .
To her surprise , three little doves were sitting on the handle , all of them looking very sad .
` You poor little things , ' said the girl , stroking them .
` Why do you sit there and get wet ?
Go and fly home to your nest , it will be much warmer than this ; but first eat this bread , which I saved from my dinner , and perhaps you will feel happier .
It is my father 's axe you are sitting on , and I must take it back as fast as I can , or I shall get a terrible scolding from my stepmother . '
She then crumbled the bread on the ground , and was pleased to see the doves flutter quite cheerfully towards it .
` Good-bye , ' she said , picking up the axe , and went her way homewards .
By the time they had finished all the crumbs the doves felt must better , and were able to fly back to their nest in the top of a tree .
` That is a good girl , ' said one ; ' I really was too weak to stretch out a wing before she came .
I should like to do something to show how grateful I am . '
` Well , let us give her a wreath of flowers that will never fade as long as she wears it , ' cried another .
` And let the tiniest singing birds in the world sit amongst the flowers , ' rejoined the third .
` Yes , that will do beautifully , ' said the first .
And when the girl stepped into her cottage a wreath of rosebuds was on her head , and a crowd of little birds were singing unseen .
The father , who was sitting by the fire , thought that , in spite of her muddy clothes , he had never seen his daughter looking so lovely ; but the stepmother and the other girl grew wild with envy .
` How absurd to walk about on such a pouring night , dressed up like that , ' she remarked crossly , and roughly pulled off the wreath as she spoke , to place it on her own daughter .
As she did so the roses became withered and brown , and the birds flew out of the window .
` See what a trumpery thing it is ! '
cried the stepmother ; ` and now take your supper and go to bed , for it is near upon midnight . '
But though she pretended to despise the wreath , she longed none the less for her daughter to have one like it .
Now it happened that the next evening the father , who had been alone in the forest , came back a second time without his axe .
The stepmother 's heart was glad when she saw this , and she said quite mildly : ` Why , you have forgotten your axe again , you careless man !
But now your daughter shall stay at home , and mine shall go and bring it back ' ; and throwing a cloak over the girl 's shoulders , she bade her hasten to the forest .
With a very ill grace the damsel set forth , grumbling to herself as she went ; for though she wished for the wreath , she did not at all want the trouble of getting it .
By the time she reached the spot where her stepfather had been cutting the wood the girl was in a very bad temper indeed , and when she caught sight of the axe , there were the three little doves , with drooping heads and soiled , bedraggled feathers , sitting on the handle .
` You dirty creatures , ' cried she , ` get away at once , or I will throw stones at you !
And the doves spread their wings in a fright and flew up to the very top of a tree , their bodies shaking with anger .
` What shall we do to revenge ourselves on her ? '
asked the smallest of the doves , ` we were never treated like that before . '
` Never , ' said the biggest dove .
` We must find some way of paying her back in her own coin ! ' '
I know , ' answered the middle dove ; ` she shall never be able to say anything but `` dirty creatures '' to the end of her life . '
` Oh , how clever of you !
That will do beautifully , ' exclaimed the other two .
And they flapped their wings and clucked so loud with delight , and made such a noise , that they woke up all the birds in the trees close by .
` What in the world is the matter ? '
asked the birds sleepily .
` That is our secret , ' said the doves .
Meanwhile the girl had reached home crosser than ever ; but as soon as her mother heard her lift the latch of the door she ran out to hear her adventures .
` Well , did you get the wreath ? '
cried she .
` Dirty creatures ! '
answered her daughter .
` Do n't speak to me like that !
What do you mean ? '
asked the mother again .
` Dirty creatures ! '
repeated the daughter , and nothing else could she say .
Then the woman saw that something evil had befallen her , and turned in her rage to her stepdaughter .
` You are at the bottom of this , I know , ' she cried ; and as the father was out of the way she took a stick and beat the girl till she screamed with pain and went to bed sobbing .
If the poor girl 's life had been miserable before , it was ten times worse now , for the moment her father 's back was turned the others teased and tormented her from morning till night ; and their fury was increased by the sight of her wreath , which the doves had placed again on her head .
Things went on like this for some weeks , when , one day , as the king 's son was riding through the forest , he heard some strange birds singing more sweetly than birds had ever sung before .
He tied his horse to a tree , and followed where the sound led him , and , to his surprise , he saw before him a beautiful girl chopping wood , with a wreath of pink rose-buds , out of which the singing came .
Standing in the shelter of a tree , he watched her a long while , and then , hat in hand , he went up and spoke to her .
` Fair maiden , who are you , and who gave you that wreath of singing roses ? '
asked he , for the birds were so tiny that till you looked closely you never saw them . '
I live in a hut on the edge of the forest , ' she answered , blushing , for she had never spoken to a prince before .
` As to the wreath , I know not how it came there , unless it may be the gift of some doves whom I fed when they were starving !
The prince was delighted with this answer , which showed the goodness of the girl 's heart , and besides he had fallen in love with her beauty , and would not be content till she promised to return with him to the palace , and become his bride .
The old king was naturally disappointed at his son 's choice of a wife , as he wished him to marry a neighbouring princess ; but as from his birth the prince had always done exactly as he like , nothing was said and a splendid wedding feast was got ready .
The day after her marriage the bride sent a messenger , bearing handsome presents to her father , and telling him of the good fortune which had befallen her .
As may be imagined , the stepmother and her daughter were so filled with envy that they grew quite ill , and had to take to their beds , and nobody would have been sorry it they had never got up again ; but that did not happen .
At length , however , they began to feel better , for the mother invented a plan by which she could be revenged on the girl who had never done her any harm .
Her plan was this .
In the town where she had lived before she was married there was an old witch , who had more skill in magic that any other witch she knew .
To this witch she would go and beg her to make her a mask with the face of her stepdaughter , and when she had the mask the rest would be easy .
She told her daughter what she meant to do , and although the daughter could only say ` dirty creatures , ' in answer , she nodded and smiled and looked well pleased .
Everything fell out exactly as the woman had hoped .
By the aid of her magic mirror the witch beheld the new princess walking in her gardens in a dress of green silk , and in a few minutes had produced a mask so like her , that very few people could have told the difference .
However , she counselled the woman that when her daughter first wore it -- for that , of course , was what she intended her to do -- she had better pretend that she had a toothache , and cover her head with a lace veil .
The woman thanked her and paid her well , and returned to her hut , carrying the mask under her cloak .
In a few days she heard that a great hunt was planned , and the prince would leave the palace very early in the morning , so that his wife would be alone all day .
This was a chance not to be missed , and taking her daughter with her she went up to the palace , where she had never been before .
The princess was too happy in her new home to remember all that she had suffered in the old one , and she welcomed them both gladly , and gave them quantities of beautiful things to take back with them .
At last she took them down to the shore to see a pleasure boat which her husband had had made for her ; and here , the woman seizing her opportunity , stole softly behind the girl and pushed her off the rock on which she was standing , into the deep water , where she instantly sank to the bottom .
Then she fastened the mask on her daughter , flung over her shoulders a velvet cloak , which the princess had let fall , and finally arranged a lace veil over her head .
` Rest your cheek on your hand , as if you were in pain , when the prince returns , ' said the mother ; ` and be careful not to speak , whatever you do .
I will go back to the witch and see if she can not take off the spell laid on you by those horrible birds .
Ah !
why did I not think of it before ! '
No sooner had the prince entered the palace than he hastened to the princess 's apartments , where he found her lying on the sofa apparently in great pain .
` My dearest wife , what is the matter with you ? '
he cried , kneeling down beside her , and trying to take her hand ; but she snatched it away , and pointing to her cheek murmured something he could not catch .
` What is it ?
tell me !
Is the pain bad ?
When did it begin ?
Shall I send for your ladies to bath the place ? '
asked the prince , pouring out these and a dozen other questions , to which the girl only shook her head .
` But I ca n't leave you like this , ' he continued , starting up , ' I must summon all the court physicians to apply soothing balsams to the sore place !
And as he spoke he sprang to his feet to go in search of them once came near her the trick would at once be discovered , that she forgot her mother 's counsel not to speak , and forgot even the spell that had been laid upon her , and catching hold of the prince 's tunic , she cried in tones of entreaty : ` Dirty creatures ! '
The young man stopped , not able to believe his ears , but supposed that pain had made the princess cross , as it sometimes does .
However , he guessed somehow that she wised to be left alone , so he only said : ` Well , I dare say a little sleep will do you good , if you can manage to get it , and that you will wake up better to-morrow . '
Now , that night happened to be very hot and airless , and the prince , after vainly trying to rest , at length got up and went to the window .
Suddenly he beheld in the moonlight a form with a wreath of roses on her head rise out of the sea below him and step on to the sands , holding out her arms as she did so towards the palace .
` That maiden is strangely like my wife , ' thought he ; ' I must see her closer !
And he hastened down to the water .
But when he got there , the princess , for she indeed it was , had disappeared completely , and he began to wonder if his eyes had deceived him .
The next morning he went to the false bride 's room , but her ladies told him she would neither speak nor get up , though she ate everything they set before her .
The prince was sorely perplexed as to what could be the matter with her , for naturally he could not guess that she was expecting her mother to return every moment , and to remove the spell the doves had laid upon her , and meanwhile was afraid to speak lest she should betray herself .
At length he made up his mind to summon all the court physicians ; he did not tell her what he was going to do , lest it should make her worse , but he went himself and begged the four learned leeches attached to the king 's person to follow him to the princess 's apartments .
Unfortunately , as they entered , the princess was so enraged at the sight of them that she forgot all about the doves , and shrieked out : ` Dirty creatures !
dirty creatures ! '
which so offended the physicians that they left the room at once , and nothing that the prince could say would prevail on them to remain .
He then tried to persuade his wife to send them a message that she was sorry for her rudeness , but not a word would she say .
Late that evening , when he had performed all the tiresome duties which fall to the lot of every prince , the young man was leaning out of his window , refreshing himself with the cool breezes that blew off the sea .
His thoughts went back to the scene of the morning , and he wondered if , after all , he had not made a great mistake in marrying a low-born wife , however beautiful she might be .
How could he have imagined that the quiet , gentle girl who had been so charming a companion to him during the first days of their marriage , could have become in a day the rude , sulky woman , who could not control her temper even to benefit herself .
One thing was clear , if she did not change her conduct very shortly he would have to send her away from court .
He was thinking these thoughts , when his eyes fell on the sea beneath him , and there , as before , was the figure that so closely resembled his wife , standing with her feet in the water , holding out her arms to him .
` Wait for me !
Wait for me !
Wait for me ! '
he cried ; not even knowing he was speaking .
But when he reached the shore there was nothing to be seen but the shadows cast by the moonlight .
A state ceremonial in a city some distance off caused the prince to ride away at daybreak , and he left without seeing his wife again .
` Perhaps she may have come to her senses by to-morrow , ' said he to himself ; ` and , anyhow , if I am going to send her back to her father , it might be better if we did not meet in the meantime !
Then he put the matter from his mind , and kept his thoughts on the duty that lay before him .
It was nearly midnight before he returned to the palace , but , instead of entering , he went down to the shore and hid behind a rock .
He had scarcely done so when the girl came out of the sea , and stretched out her arms towards his window .
In an instant the prince had seized her hand , and though she made a frightened struggle to reach the water -- for she in her turn had had a spell laid upon her -- he held her fast .
` You are my own wife , and I shall never let you go , ' he said .
But the words were hardly out of his mouth when he found that it was a hare that he was holding by the paw .
Then the hare changed into a fish , and the fish into a bird , and the bird into a slimy wriggling snake .
This time the prince 's hand nearly opened of itself , but with a strong effort he kept his fingers shut , and drawing his sword cut off its head , when the spell was broken , and the girl stood before him as he had seen her first , the wreath upon her head and the birds singing for joy .
The very next morning the stepmother arrived at the palace with an ointment that the old witch had given her to place upon her daughter 's tongue , which would break the dove 's spell , if the rightful bride had really been drowned in the sea ; if not , then it would be useless .
The mother assured her that she had seen her stepdaughter sink , and that there was no fear that she would ever come up again ; but , to make all quite safe , the old woman might bewitch the girl ; and so she did .
After that the wicked stepmother travelled all through the night to get to the palace as soon as possible , and made her way straight into her daughter 's room . '
I have got it !
I have got it ! '
she cried triumphantly , and laid the ointment on her daughter 's tongue .
` Now what do you say ? '
she asked proudly .
` Dirty creatures !
dirty creatures ! '
answered the daughter ; and the mother wrung her hands and wept , as she knew that all her plans had failed .
At this moment the prince entered with his real wife .
` You both deserved death , ' he said , ` and if it were left to me , you should have it .
But the princess has begged me to spare your lives , so you will be put into a ship and carried off to a desert island , where you will stay till you die . '
Then the ship was made ready and the wicked woman and her daughter were placed in it , and it sailed away , and no more was heard of them .
But the prince and his wife lived together long and happily , and ruled their people well .
The Foolish Weaver -LSB- Adapted from Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
Once a weaver , who was in want of work , took service with a certain farmer as a shepherd .
The farmer , knowing that the man was very slow-witted , gave him most careful instructions as to everything that he was to do .
Finally he said : ` If a wolf or any wild animal attempts to hurt the flock you should pick up a big stone like this ' -LRB- suiting the action to the word -RRB- ` and throw a few such at him , and he will be afraid and go away . '
The weaver said that he understood , and started with the flocks to the hillsides where they grazed all day .
By chance in the afternoon a leopard appeared , and the weaver instantly ran home as fast as he could to get the stones which the farmer had shown him , to throw at the creature .
When he came back all the flock were scattered or killed , and when the farmer heard the tale he beat him soundly .
` Were there no stones on the hillside that you should run back to get them , you senseless one ? '
he cried ; ` you are not fit to herd sheep .
To-day you shall stay at home and mind my old mother who is sick , perhaps you will be able to drive flies off her face , if you ca n't drive beasts away from sheep ! '
So , the next day , the weaver was left at home to take care of the farmer 's old sick mother .
Now as she lay outside on a bed , it turned out that the flies became very troublesome , and the weaver looked round for something to drive them away with ; and as he had been told to pick up the nearest stone to drive the beasts away from the flock , he thought he would this time show how cleverly he could obey orders .
Accordingly he seized the nearest stone , which was a big , heavy one , and dashed it at the flies ; but , unhappily , he slew the poor old woman also ; and then , being afraid of the wrath of the farmer , he fled and was not seen again in that neighbourhood .
All that day and all the next night he walked , and at length he came to a village where a great many weavers lived together .
` You are welcome , ' said they .
` Eat and sleep , for to-morrow six of us start in search of fresh wool to weave , and we pray you to give us your company . '
` Willingly , ' answered the weaver .
So the next morning the seven weavers set out to go to the village where they could buy what they wanted .
On the way they had to cross a ravine which lately had been full of water , but now was quite dry .
The weavers , however , were accustomed to swim over this ravine ; therefore , regardless of the fact that this time it was dry , they stripped , and , tying their clothes on their heads , they proceeded to swim across the dry sand and rocks that formed the bed of the ravine .
Thus they got to the other side without further damage than bruised knees and elbows , and as soon as they were over , one of them began to count the party to make sure that all were safe there .
He counted all except himself , and then cried out that somebody was missing !
This set each of them counting ; but each made the same mistake of counting all except himself , so that they became certain that one of their party was missing !
They ran up and down the bank of the ravine wringing their hands in great distress and looking for signs of their lost comrade .
There a farmer found them and asked what was the matter .
` Alas ! '
said one , ` seven of us started from the other bank and one must have been drowned on the crossing , as we can only find six remaining ! '
The farmer eyed them a minute , and then , picking up his stick , he dealt each a sounding blow , counting , as he did so , ` One !
two !
three ! '
and so on up to the seven .
When the weavers found that there were seven of them they were overcome with gratitude to one whom they took for a magician as he could thus make seven out of an obvious six .
The Clever Cat -LSB- From the Pushto . -RSB-
Once upon a time there lived an old man who dwelt with his son in a small hut on the edge of the plain .
He was very old , and had worked very hard , and when at last he was struck down by illness he felt that he should never rise from his bed again .
So , one day , he bade his wife summon their son , when he came back from his journey to the nearest town , where he had been to buy bread .
` Come hither , my son , ' said he ; ' I know myself well to be dying , and I have nothing to leave you but my falcon , my cat and my greyhound ; but if you make good use of them you will never lack food .
Be good to your mother , as you have been to me .
And now farewell ! '
Then he turned his face to the wall and died .
There was great mourning in the hut for many days , but at length the son rose up , and calling to his greyhound , his cat and his falcon , he left the house saying that he would bring back something for dinner .
Wandering over the plain , he noticed a troop of gazelles , and pointed to his greyhound to give chase .
The dog soon brought down a fine fat beast , and slinging it over his shoulders , the young man turned homewards .
On the way , however , he passed a pond , and as he approached a cloud of birds flew into the air .
Shaking his wrist , the falcon seated on it darted into the air , and swooped down upon the quarry he had marked , which fell dead to the ground .
The young man picked it up , and put it in his pouch and then went towards home again .
Near the hut was a small barn in which he kept the produce of the little patch of corn , which grew close to the garden .
Here a rat ran out almost under his feet , followed by another and another ; but quick as thought the cat was upon them and not one escaped her .
When all the rats were killed , the young man left the barn .
He took the path leading to the door of the hut , but stopped on feeling a hand laid on his shoulder .
` Young man , ' said the ogre -LRB- for such was the stranger -RRB- , ` you have been a good son , and you deserve the piece of luck which has befallen you this day .
Come with me to that shining lake yonder , and fear nothing . '
Wondering a little at what might be going to happen to him , the youth did as the ogre bade him , and when they reached the shore of the lake , the ogre turned and said to him : ` Step into the water and shut your eyes !
You will find yourself sinking slowly to the bottom ; but take courage , all will go well .
Only bring up as much silver as you can carry , and we will divide it between us . '
So the young man stepped bravely into the lake , and felt himself sinking , sinking , till he reached firm ground at last .
In front of him lay four heaps of silver , and in the midst of them a curious white shining stone , marked over with strange characters , such as he had never seen before .
He picked it up in order to examine it more closely , and as he held it the stone spoke .
` As long as you hold me , all your wishes will come true , ' it said .
` But hide me in your turban , and then call to the ogre that you are ready to come up . '
In a few minutes the young man stood again by the shores of the lake .
` Well , where is the silver ? '
asked the ogre , who was awaiting him .
` Ah , my father , how can I tell you !
So bewildered was I , and so dazzled with the splendours of everything I saw , that I stood like a statue , unable to move .
Then hearing steps approaching I got frightened , and called to you , as you know . '
` You are no better than the rest , ' cried the ogre , and turned away in a rage .
When he was out of sight the young man took the stone from his turban and looked at it . '
I want the finest camel that can be found , and the most splendid garments , ' said he .
` Shut your eyes then , ' replied the stone .
And he shut them ; and when he opened them again the camel that he had wished for was standing before him , while the festal robes of a desert prince hung from his shoulders .
Mounting the camel , he whistled the falcon to his wrist , and , followed by his greyhound and his cat , he started homewards .
His mother was sewing at her door when this magnificent stranger rode up , and , filled with surprise , she bowed low before him .
` Do n't you know me , mother ? '
he said with a laugh .
And on hearing his voice the good woman nearly fell to the ground with astonishment .
` How have you got that camel and those clothes ? '
asked she .
` Can a son of mine have committed murder in order to possess them ? '
` Do not be afraid ; they are quite honestly come by , ' answered the youth . '
I will explain all by-and-by ; but now you must go to the palace and tell the king I wish to marry his daughter . '
At these words the mother thought her son had certainly gone mad , and stared blankly at him .
The young man guessed what was in her heart , and replied with a smile : ` Fear nothing .
Promise all that he asks ; it will be fulfilled somehow . '
So she went to the palace , where she found the king sitting in the Hall of Justice listening to the petitions of his people .
The woman waited until all had been heard and the hall was empty , and then went up and knelt before the throne .
` My son has sent me to ask for the hand of the princess , ' said she .
The king looked at her and thought that she was mad ; but , instead of ordering his guards to turn her out , he answered gravely : ` Before he can marry the princess he must build me a palace of ice , which can be warmed with fires , and wherein the rarest singing-birds can live ! '
` It shall be done , your Majesty , ' said she , and got up and left the hall .
Her son was anxiously awaiting her outside the palace gates , dressed in the clothes that he wore every day .
` Well , what have I got to do ? '
he asked impatiently , drawing his mother aside so that no one could overhear them .
` Oh , something quite impossible ; and I hope you will put the princess out of your head , ' she replied .
` Well , but what is it ? '
persisted he .
` Nothing but to build a palace of ice wherein fires can burn that shall keep it so warm that the most delicate singing-birds can live in it ! ' '
I thought it would be something much harder than that , ' exclaimed the young man . '
I will see about it at once . '
And leaving his mother , he went into the country and took the stone from his turban . '
I want a palace of ice that can be warmed with fires and filled with the rarest singing-birds ! '
` Shut your eyes , then , ' said the stone ; and he shut them , and when he opened them again there was the palace , more beautiful than anything he could have imagined , the fires throwing a soft pink glow over the ice .
` It is fit even for the princess , ' thought he to himself .
As soon as the king awoke next morning he ran to the window , and there across the plain he beheld the palace .
` That young man must be a great wizard ; he may be useful to me . '
And when the mother came again to tell him that his orders had been fulfilled he received her with great honour , and bade her tell her son that the wedding was fixed for the following day .
The princess was delighted with her new home , and with her husband also ; and several days slipped happily by , spent in turning over all the beautiful things that the palace contained .
But at length the young man grew tired of always staying inside walls , and he told his wife that the next day he must leave her for a few hours , and go out hunting .
` You will not mind ? '
he asked .
And she answered as became a good wife : ` Yes , of course I shall mind ; but I will spend the day in planning out some new dresses ; and then it will be so delightful when you come back , you know ! '
So the husband went off to hunt , with the falcon on his wrist , and the greyhound and the cat behind him -- for the palace was so warm that even the cat did not mind living in it .
No sooner had he gone , than the ogre who had been watching his chance for many days , knocked at the door of the palace . '
I have just returned from a far country , ' he said , ` and I have some of the largest and most brilliant stones in the world with me .
The princess is known to love beautiful things , perhaps she might like to buy some ? '
Now the princess had been wondering for many days what trimming she should put on her dresses , so that they should outshine the dresses of the other ladies at the court balls .
Nothing that she thought of seemed good enough , so , when the message was brought that the ogre and his wares were below , she at once ordered that he should be brought to her chamber .
Oh !
what beautiful stones he laid before her ; what lovely rubies , and what rare pearls !
No other lady would have jewels like those -- of that the princess was quite sure ; but she cast down her eyes so that the ogre might not see how much she longed for them . '
I fear they are too costly for me , ' she said carelessly ; ` and besides , I have hardly need of any more jewels just now . ' '
I have no particular wish to sell them myself , ' answered the ogre , with equal indifference .
` But I have a necklace of shining stones which was left me by father , and one , the largest engraven with weird characters , is missing .
I have heard that it is in your husband 's possession , and if you can get me that stone you shall have any of these jewels that you choose .
But you will have to pretend that you want it for yourself ; and , above all , do not mention me , for he sets great store by it , and would never part with it to a stranger !
To-morrow I will return with some jewels yet finer than those I have with me to-day .
So , madam , farewell ! '
Left alone , the princess began to think of many things , but chiefly as to whether she would persuade her husband to give her the stone or not .
At one moment she felt he had already bestowed so much upon her that it was a shame to ask for the only object he had kept back .
No , it would be mean ; she could not do it !
But then , those diamonds , and those string of pearls !
After all , they had only been married a week , and the pleasure of giving it to her ought to be far greater than the pleasure of keeping it for himself .
And she was sure it would be !
Well , that evening , when the young man had supped off his favourite dishes which the princess took care to have specially prepared for him , she sat down close beside him , and began stroking his head .
For some time she did not speak , but listened attentively to all the adventures that had befallen him that day .
` But I was thinking of you all the time , ' said he at the end , ` and wishing that I could bring you back something you would like .
But , alas !
what is there that you do not possess already ? '
` How good of you not to forget me when you are in the midst of such dangers and hardships , ' answered she .
` Yes , it is true I have many beautiful things ; but if you want to give me a present -- and to-morrow is my birthday -- there IS one thing that I wish for very much . '
` And what is that ?
Of course you shall have it directly ! '
he asked eagerly .
` It is that bright stone which fell out of the folds of your turban a few days ago , ' she answered , playing with his finger ; ` the little stone with all those funny marks upon it .
I never saw any stone like it before . '
The young man did not answer at first ; then he said , slowly : ' I have promised , and therefore I must perform .
But will you swear never to part from it , and to keep it safely about you always ?
More I can not tell you , but I beg you earnestly to take heed to this . '
The princess was a little startled by his manner , and began to be sorry that she had every listened to the ogre .
But she did not like to draw back , and pretended to be immensely delighted at her new toy , and kissed and thanked her husband for it .
` After all I need n't give it to the ogre , ' thought she as she dropped off to sleep .
Unluckily the next morning the young man went hunting again , and the ogre , who was watching , knew this , and did not come till much later than before .
At the moment that he knocked at the door of the palace the princess had tired of all her employments , and her attendants were at their wits ' end how to amuse her , when a tall negro dressed in scarlet came to announce that the ogre was below , and desired to know if the princess would speak to him .
` Bring him hither at once ! '
cried she , springing up from her cushions , and forgetting all her resolves of the previous night .
In another moment she was bending with rapture over the glittering gems .
` Have you got it ? '
asked the ogre in a whisper , for the princess 's ladies were standing as near as they dared to catch a glimpse of the beautiful jewels .
` Yes , here , ' she answered , slipping the stone from her sash and placing it among the rest .
Then she raised her voice , and began to talk quickly of the prices of the chains and necklaces , and after some bargaining , to deceive the attendants , she declared that she liked one string of pearls better than all the rest , and that the ogre might take away the other things , which were not half as valuable as he supposed .
` As you please , madam , ' said he , bowing himself out of the palace .
Soon after he had gone a curious thing happened .
The princess carelessly touched the wall of her room , which was wont to reflect the warm red light of the fire on the hearth , and found her hand quite wet .
She turned round , and -- was it her fancy ?
or did the fire burn more dimly than before ?
Hurriedly she passed into the picture gallery , where pools of water showed here and there on the floor , and a cold chill ran through her whole body .
At that instant her frightened ladies came running down the stairs , crying : ` Madam !
madam !
what has happened ?
The palace is disappearing under our eyes ! '
` My husband will be home very soon , ' answered the princess -- who , though nearly as much frightened as her ladies , felt that she must set them a good example .
` Wait till then , and he will tell us what to do . '
So they waited , seated on the highest chairs they could find , wrapped in their warmest garments , and with piles of cushions under their feet , while the poor birds flew with numbed wings hither and thither , till they were so lucky as to discover an open window in some forgotten corner .
Through this they vanished , and were seen no more .
At last , when the princess and her ladies had been forced to leave the upper rooms , where the walls and floors had melted away , and to take refuge in the hall , the young man came home .
He had ridden back along a winding road from which he did not see the palace till he was close upon it , and stood horrified at the spectacle before him .
He knew in an instant that his wife must have betrayed his trust , but he would not reproach her , as she must be suffering enough already .
Hurrying on he sprang over all that was left of the palace walls , and the princess gave a cry of relief at the sight of him .
` Come quickly , ' he said , ` or you will be frozen to death ! '
And a dreary little procession set out for the king 's palace , the greyhound and the cat bringing up the rear .
At the gates he left them , though his wife besought him to allow her to enter .
` You have betrayed me and ruined me , ' he said sternly ; ' I go to seek my fortune alone . '
And without another word he turned and left her .
With his falcon on his wrist , and his greyhound and cat behind him , the young man walked a long way , inquiring of everyone he met whether they had seen his enemy the ogre .
But nobody had .
Then he bade his falcon fly up into the sky -- up , up , and up -- and try if his sharp eyes could discover the old thief .
The bird had to go so high that he did not return for some hours ; but he told his master that the ogre was lying asleep in a splendid palace in a far country on the shores of the sea .
This was delightful news to the young man , who instantly bought some meat for the falcon , bidding him make a good meal .
` To-morrow , ' said he , ` you will fly to the palace where the ogre lies , and while he is asleep you will search all about him for a stone on which is engraved strange signs ; this you will bring to me .
In three days I shall expect you back here . '
` Well , I must take the cat with me , ' answered the bird .
The sun had not yet risen before the falcon soared high into the air , the cat seated on his back , with his paws tightly clasping the bird 's neck .
` You had better shut your eyes or you may get giddy , ' said the bird ; and the cat , you had never before been off the ground except to climb a tree , did as she was bid .
All that day and all that night they flew , and in the morning they saw the ogre 's palace lying beneath them .
` Dear me , ' said the cat , opening her eyes for the first time , ` that looks to me very like a rat city down there , let us go down to it ; they may be able to help us . '
So they alighted in some bushes in the heart of the rat city .
The falcon remained where he was , but the cat lay down outside the principal gate , causing terrible excitement among the rats .
At length , seeing she did not move , one bolder than the rest put its head out of an upper window of the castle , and said , in a trembling voice : ` Why have you come here ?
What do you want ?
If it is anything in our power , tell us , and we will do it . '
` If you would have let me speak to you before , I would have told you that I come as a friend , ' replied the cat ; ` and I shall be greatly obliged if you would send four of the strongest and cunningest among you , to do me a service . '
` Oh , we shall be delighted , ' answered the rat , much relieved .
` But if you will inform me what it is you wish them to do I shall be better able to judge who is most fitted for the post . ' '
I thank you , ' said the cat .
` Well , what they have to do is this : To-night they must burrow under the walls of the castle and go up to the room were an ogre lies asleep .
Somewhere about him he has hidden a stone , on which are engraved strange signs .
When they have found it they must take it from him without his waking , and bring it to me . '
` Your orders shall be obeyed , ' replied the rat .
And he went out to give his instructions .
About midnight the cat , who was still sleeping before the gate , was awakened by some water flung at her by the head rat , who could not make up his mind to open the doors .
` Here is the stone you wanted , ' said he , when the cat started up with a loud mew ; ` if you will hold up your paws I will drop it down . '
And so he did .
` And now farewell , ' continued the rat ; ` you have a long way to go , and will do well to start before daybreak . '
` Your counsel is good , ' replied the cat , smiling to itself ; and putting the stone in her mouth she went off to seek the falcon .
Now all this time neither the cat nor the falcon had had any food , and the falcon soon got tired carrying such a heavy burden .
When night arrived he declared he could go no further , but would spend it on the banks of a river .
` And it is my turn to take care of the stone , ' said he , ` or it will seem as if you had done everything and I nothing . '
` No , I got it , and I will keep it , ' answered the cat , who was tired and cross ; and they began a fine quarrel .
But , unluckily , in the midst of it , the cat raised her voice , and the stone fell into the ear of a big fish which happened to be swimming by , and though both the cat and the falcon sprang into the water after it , they were too late .
Half drowned , and more than half choked , the two faithful servants scrambled back to land again .
The falcon flew to a tree and spread his wings in the sun to dry , but the cat , after giving herself a good shake , began to scratch up the sandy banks and to throw the bits into the stream .
` What are you doing that for ? '
asked a little fish .
` Do you know that you are making the water quite muddy ? '
` That does n't matter at all to me , ' answered the cat . '
I am going to fill up all the river , so that the fishes may die . '
` That is very unkind , as we have never done you any harm , ' replied the fish .
` Why are you so angry with us ? '
` Because one of you has got a stone of mine -- a stone with strange signs upon it -- which dropped into the water .
If you will promise to get it back for me , why , perhaps I will leave your river alone . ' '
I will certainly try , ' answered the fish in a great hurry ; ` but you must have a little patience , as it may not be an easy task . '
And in an instant his scales might be seen flashing quickly along .
The fish swam as fast as he could to the sea , which was not far distant , and calling together all his relations who lived in the neighbourhood , he told them of the terrible danger which threatened the dwellers in the river .
` None of us has got it , ' said the fishes , shaking their heads ; ` but in the bay yonder there is a tunny who , although he is so old , always goes everywhere .
He will be able to tell you about it , if anyone can . '
So the little fish swam off to the tunny , and again related his story .
` Why I was up that river only a few hours ago ! '
cried the tunny ; ` and as I was coming back something fell into my ear , and there it is still , for I went to sleep , when I got home and forgot all about it .
Perhaps it may be what you want . '
And stretching up his tail he whisked out the stone .
` Yes , I think that must be it , ' said the fish with joy .
And taking the stone in his mouth he carried it to the place where the cat was waiting for him . '
I am much obliged to you , ' said the cat , as the fish laid the stone on the sand , ` and to reward you , I will let your river alone . '
And she mounted the falcon 's back , and they flew to their master .
Ah , how glad he was to see them again with the magic stone in their possession .
In a moment he had wished for a palace , but this time it was of green marble ; and then he wished for the princess and her ladies to occupy it .
And there they lived for many years , and when the old king died the princess 's husband reigned in his stead .
The Story of Manus -LSB- Adapted from Contes Berberes . -RSB-
Far away over the sea of the West there reigned a king who had two sons ; and the name of the one was Oireal , and the name of the other was Iarlaid .
When the boys were still children , their father and mother died , and a great council was held , and a man was chosen from among them who would rule the kingdom till the boys were old enough to rule it themselves .
The years passed on , and by-and-by another council was held , and it was agreed that the king 's sons were now of an age to take the power which rightly belonged to them .
So the youths were bidden to appear before the council , and Oireal the elder was smaller and weaker than his brother . '
I like not to leave the deer on the hill and the fish in the rivers , and sit in judgment on my people , ' said Oireal , when he had listened to the words of the chief of the council .
And the chief waxed angry , and answered quickly : ` Not one clod of earth shall ever be yours if this day you do not take on yourself the vows that were taken by the king your father . '
Then spake Iarlaid , the younger , and he said : ` Let one half be yours , and the other give to me ; then you will have fewer people to rule over . '
` Yes , I will do that , ' answered Oireal .
After this , one half of the men of the land of Lochlann did homage to Oireal , and the other half to Iarlaid .
And they governed their kingdoms as they would , and in a few years they became grown men with beards on their chins ; and Iarlaid married the daughter of the king of Greece , and Oireal the daughter of the king of Orkney .
The next year sons were born to Oireal and Iarlaid ; and the son of Oireal was big and strong , but the son of Iarlaid was little and weak , and each had six foster brothers who went everywhere with the princes .
One day Manus , son of Oireal , and his cousin , the son of Iarlaid , called to their foster brothers , and bade them come and play a game at shinny in the great field near the school where they were taught all that princes and nobles should know .
Long they played , and swiftly did the ball pass from one to another , when Manus drove the ball at his cousin , the son of Iarlaid .
The boy , who was not used to be roughly handled , even in jest , cried out that he was sorely hurt , and went home with his foster brothers and told his tale to his mother .
The wife of Iarlaid grew white and angry as she listened , and thrusting her son aside , sought the council hall where Iarlaid was sitting .
` Manus has driven a ball at my son , and fain would have slain him , ' said she .
` Let an end be put to him and his ill deeds . '
But Iarlaid answered : ` Nay , I will not slay the son of my brother . '
` And he shall not slay my son , ' said the queen .
And calling to her chamberlain she ordered him to lead the prince to the four brown boundaries of the world , and to leave him there with a wise man , who would care for him , and let no harm befall him .
And the wise man set the boy on the top of a hill where the sun always shone , and he could see every man , but no man could see him .
Then she summoned Manus to the castle , and for a whole year she kept him fast , and his own mother could not get speech of him .
But in the end , when the wife of Oireal fell sick , Manus fled from the tower which was his prison , and stole back to his on home .
For a few years he stayed there in peace , and then the wife of Iarlaid his uncle sent for him .
` It is time that you were married , ' she said , when she saw that Manus had grown tall and strong like unto Iarlaid .
` Tall and strong you are , and comely of face .
I know a bride that will suit you well , and that is the daughter of the mighty earl of Finghaidh , that does homage for his lands to me .
I myself will go with a great following to his house , and you shall go with me . '
Thus it was done ; and though the earl 's wife was eager to keep her daughter with her yet a while , she was fain to yield , as the wife of Iarlaid vowed that not a rood of land should the earl have , unless he did her bidding .
But if he would give his daughter to Manus , she would bestow on him the third part of her own kingdom , with much treasure beside .
This she did , not from love to Manus , but because she wished to destroy him .
So they were married , and rode back with the wife of Iarlaid to her own palace .
And that night , while he was sleeping , there came a wise man , who was his father 's friend , and awoke him saying : ` Danger lies very close to you , Manus , son of Oireal .
You hold yourself favoured because you have as a bride the daughter of a mighty earl ; but do you know what bride the wife of Iarlaid sought for her own son ?
It was no worldly wife she found for him , but the swift March wind , and never can you prevail against her . '
` Is it thus ? '
answered Manu .
And at the first streak of dawn he went to the chamber where the queen lay in the midst of her maidens . '
I have come , ' he said , ` for the third part of the kingdom , and for the treasure which you promised me . '
But the wife of Iarlaid laughed as she heard him .
` Not a clod shall you have here , ' spake she .
` You must go to the Old Bergen for that .
Mayhap under its stones and rough mountains you may find a treasure ! '
` Then give me your son 's six foster brothers as well as my own , ' answered he .
And the queen gave them to him , and they set out for Old Bergen .
A year passed by , and found them still in that wild land , hunting the reindeer , and digging pits for the mountain sheep to fall into .
For a time Manus and his companions lived merrily , but at length Manus grew weary of the strange country , and they all took ship for the land of Lochlann .
The wind was fierce and cold , and long was the voyage ; but , one spring day , they sailed into the harbour that lay beneath the castle of Iarlaid .
The queen looked from her window and beheld him mounting the hill , with the twelve foster brothers behind him .
Then she said to her husband : ` Manus has returned with his twelve foster brothers .
Would that I could put an end to him and his murdering and his slaying . '
` That were a great pity , ' answered Iarlaid .
` And it is not I that will do it . '
` If you will not do it I will , ' said she .
And she called the twelve foster brothers and made them vow fealty to herself .
So Manus was left with no man , and sorrowful was he when he returned alone to Old Bergen .
It was late when his foot touched the shore , and took the path towards the forest .
On his way there met him a man in a red tunic .
` Is it you , Manus , come back again ? '
asked he .
` It is I , ' answered Manus ; ` alone have I returned from the land of Lochlann . '
The man eyed him silently for a moment , and then he said : ' I dreamed that you were girt with a sword and became king of Lochlann . '
But Manus answered : ' I have no sword and my bow is broken . ' '
I will give you a new sword if you will make me a promise , ' said the man once more .
` To be sure I will make it , if ever I am king , ' answered Manus .
` But speak , and tell me what promise I am to make . ' '
I was your grandfather 's armourer , ' replied the man , ` and I wish to be your armourer also . '
` That I will promise readily , ' said Manus ; and followed the man into his house , which was at a little distance .
But the house was not like other houses , for the walls of every room were hung so thick with arms that you could not see the boards .
` Choose what you will , ' said the man ; and Manus unhooked a sword and tried it across his knee , and it broke , and so did the next , and the next .
` Leave off breaking the swords , ' cried the man , ` and look at this old sword and helmet and tunic that I wore in the wars of your grandfather .
Perhaps you may find them of stouter steel . '
And Manus bent the sword thrice across his knee but he could not break it .
So he girded it to his side , and put on the old helmet .
As he fastened the strap his eye fell on a cloth flapping outside the window .
` What cloth is that ? '
asked he .
` It is a cloth that was woven by the Little People of the forest , ' said the man ; ` and when you are hungry it will give you food and drink , and if you meet a foe , he will not hurt you , but will stoop and kiss the back of your hand in token of submission .
Take it , and use it well . '
Manus gladly wrapped the shawl round his arm , and was leaving the house , when he heard the rattling of a chain blown by the wind .
` What chain is that ? '
asked he .
` The creature who has that chain round his neck , need not fear a hundred enemies , ' answered the armourer .
And Manus wound it round him and passed on into the forest .
Suddenly there sprang out from the bushes two lions , and a lion cub with them .
The fierce beasts bounded towards him , roaring loudly , and would fain have eaten him , but quickly Manus stooped and spread the cloth upon the ground .
At that the lions stopped , and bowing their great heads , kissed the back of his wrist and went their ways .
But the cub rolled itself up in the cloth ; so Manus picked them both up , and carried them with him to Old Bergen .
Another year went by , and then he took the lion cub and set forth to the land of Lochlann .
And the wife of Iarlaid came to meet him , and a brown dog , small but full of courage , came with her .
When the dog beheld the lion cub he rushed towards him , thinking to eat him ; but the cub caught the dog by the neck , and shook him , and he was dead .
And the wife of Iarlaid mourned him sore , and her wrath was kindled , and many times she tried to slay Manus and his cub , but she could not .
And at last they two went back to Old Bergen , and the twelve foster brothers went also .
` Let them go , ' said the wife of Iarlaid , when she heard of it .
` My brother the Red Gruagach will take the head off Manus as well in Old Bergen as elsewhere . '
Now these words were carried by a messenger to the wife of Oireal , and she made haste and sent a ship to Old Bergen to bear away her son before the Red Gruagach should take the head off him .
And in the ship was a pilot .
But the wife of Iarlaid made a thick fog to cover the face of the sea , and the rowers could not row , lest they should drive the ship on to a rock .
And when night came , the lion cub , whose eyes were bright and keen , stole up to Manus , and Manus got on his back , and the lion cub sprang ashore and bade Manus rest on the rock and wait for him .
So Manus slept , and by-and-by a voice sounded in his ears , saying : ` Arise ! '
And he saw a ship in the water beneath him , and in the ship sat the lion cup in the shape of the pilot .
Then they sailed away through the fog , and none saw them ; and they reached the land of Lochlann , and the lion cub with the chain round his neck sprang from the ship and Manus followed after .
And the lion cub killed all the men that guarded the castle , and Iarlaid and his wife also , so that , in the end , Manus son of Oireal was crowned king of Lochlann .
Pinkel the Thief -LSB- Shortened from West Highland Tales . -RSB-
Long , long ago there lived a widow who had three sons .
The two eldest were grown up , and though they were known to be idle fellows , some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held .
But at the time this story begins they had both been so careless and idle that their masters declared they would keep them no longer .
So home they went to their mother and youngest brother , of whom they thought little , because he made himself useful about the house , and looked after the hens , and milked the cow .
` Pinkel , ' they called him in scorn , and by-and-by ` Pinkel ' became his name throughout the village .
The two young men thought it was much nicer to live at home and be idle than to be obliged to do a quantity of disagreeable things they did not like , and they would have stayed by the fire till the end of their lives had not the widow lost patience with them and said that since they would not look for work at home they must seek it elsewhere , for she would not have them under her roof any longer .
But she repented bitterly of her words when Pinkel told her that he too was old enough to go out into the world , and that when he had made a fortune he would send for his mother to keep house for him .
The widow wept many tears at parting from her youngest son , but as she saw that his heart was set upon going with his brothers , she did not try to keep him .
So the young men started off one morning in high spirits , never doubting that work such as they might be willing to do would be had for the asking , as soon as their little store of money was spent .
But a very few days of wandering opened their eyes .
Nobody seemed to want them , or , if they did , the young men declared that they were not able to undertake all that the farmers or millers or woodcutters required of them .
The youngest brother , who was wiser , would gladly have done some of the work that the others refused , but he was small and slight , and no one thought of offering him any .
Therefore they went from one place to another , living only on the fruit and nuts they could find in the woods , and getting hungrier every day .
One night , after they had been walking for many hours and were very tired , they came to a large lake with an island in the middle of it .
From the island streamed a strong light , by which they could see everything almost as clearly as if the sun had been shining , and they perceived that , lying half hidden in the rushes , was a boat .
` Let us take it and row over to the island , where there must be a house , ' said the eldest brother ; ` and perhaps they will give us food and shelter . '
And they all got in and rowed across in the direction of the light .
As they drew near the island they saw that it came from a golden lantern hanging over the door of a hut , while sweet tinkling music proceeded from some bells attached to the golden horns of a goat which was feeding near the cottage .
The young men 's hearts rejoiced as they thought that at last they would be able to rest their weary limbs , and they entered the hut , but were amazed to see an ugly old woman inside , wrapped in a cloak of gold which lighted up the whole house .
They looked at each other uneasily as she came forward with her daughter , as they knew by the cloak that this was a famous witch .
` What do you want ? '
asked she , at the same time signing to her daughter to stir the large pot on the fire .
` We are tired and hungry , and would fain have shelter for the night , ' answered the eldest brother .
` You can not get it here , ' said the witch , ` but you will find both food and shelter in the palace on the other side of the lake .
Take your boat and go ; but leave this boy with me -- I can find work for him , though something tells me he is quick and cunning , and will do me ill . '
` What harm can a poor boy like me do a great Troll like you ? '
answered Pinkel .
` Let me go , I pray you , with my brothers .
I will promise never to hurt you . '
And at last the witch let him go , and he followed his brothers to the boat .
The way was further than they thought , and it was morning before they reached the palace .
Now , at last , their luck seemed to have turned , for while the two eldest were given places in the king 's stables , Pinkel was taken as page to the little prince .
He was a clever and amusing boy , who saw everything that passed under his eyes , and the king noticed this , and often employed him in his own service , which made his brothers very jealous .
Things went on this way for some time , and Pinkel every day rose in the royal favour .
At length the envy of his brothers became so great that they could bear it no longer , and consulted together how best they might ruin his credit with the king .
They did not wish to kill him -- though , perhaps , they would not have been sorry if they had heard he was dead -- but merely wished to remind him that he was after all only a child , not half so old and wise as they .
Their opportunity soon came .
It happened to be the king 's custom to visit his stables once a week , so that he might see that his horses were being properly cared for .
The next time he entered the stables the two brothers managed to be in the way , and when the king praised the beautiful satin skins of the horses under their charge , and remarked how different was their condition when his grooms had first come across the lake , the young men at once began to speak of the wonderful light which sprang from the lantern over the hut .
The king , who had a passion for collection all the rarest things he could find , fell into the trap directly , and inquired where he could get this marvellous lantern .
` Send Pinkel for it , Sire , ' said they .
` It belongs to an old witch , who no doubt came by it in some evil way .
But Pinkel has a smooth tongue , and he can get the better of any woman , old or young . '
` Then bid him go this very night , ' cried the king ; ` and if he brings me the lantern I will make him one of the chief men about my person . '
Pinkel was much pleased at the thought of his adventure , and without more ado he borrowed a little boat which lay moored to the shore , and rowed over to the island at once .
It was late by the time he arrived , and almost dark , but he knew by the savoury smell that reached him that the witch was cooking her supper .
So he climbed softly on to the roof , and , peering , watched till the old woman 's back was turned , when he quickly drew a handful of salt from his pocket and threw it into the pot .
Scarcely had he done this when the witch called her daughter and bade her lift the pot off the fire and put the stew into a dish , as it had been cooking quite long enough and she was hungry .
But no sooner had she tasted it than she put her spoon down , and declared that her daughter must have been meddling with it , for it was impossible to eat anything that was all made of salt .
` Go down to the spring in the valley , and get some fresh water , that I may prepare a fresh supper , ' cried she , ` for I feel half-starved . '
` But , mother , ' answered the girl , ` how can I find the well in this darkness ?
For you know that the lantern 's rays shed no light down there . '
` Well , then , take the lantern with you , ' answered the witch , ` for supper I must have , and there is no water that is nearer . '
So the girl took her pail in one hand and the golden lantern in the other , and hastened away to the well , followed by Pinkel , who took care to keep out of the way of the rays .
When at last she stooped to fill her pail at the well Pinkel pushed her into it , and snatching up the lantern hurried back to his boat and rowed off from the shore .
He was already a long distance from the island when the witch , who wondered what had become of her daughter , went to the door to look for her .
Close around the hut was thick darkness , but what was that bobbing light that streamed across the water ?
The witch 's heart sank as all at once it flashed upon her what had happened .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
cried she ; and the youth answered : ` Yes , dear mother , it is I ! '
` And are you not a knave for robbing me ? '
said she .
` Truly , dear mother , I am , ' replied Pinkel , rowing faster than ever , for he was half afraid that the witch might come after him .
But she had no power on the water , and turned angrily into the hut , muttering to herself all the while : ` Take care !
take care !
A second time you will not escape so easily ! '
The sun had not yet risen when Pinkel returned to the palace , and , entering the king 's chamber , he held up the lantern so that its rays might fall upon the bed .
In an instant the king awoke , and seeing the golden lantern shedding its light upon him , he sprang up , and embraced Pinkel with joy . '
O cunning one , ' cried he , ` what treasure hast thou brought me ! '
And calling for his attendants he ordered that rooms next his own should be prepared for Pinkel , and that the youth might enter his presence at any hour .
And besides this , he was to have a seat on the council .
It may easily be guessed that all this made the brothers more envious than they were before ; and they cast about in their minds afresh how best they might destroy him .
At length they remembered the goat with golden horns and the bells , and they rejoiced ; ` For , ' said they , ` THIS time the old woman will be on the watch , and let him be as clever as he likes , the bells on the horns are sure to warn her . '
So when , as before , the king came down to the stables and praised the cleverness of their brother , the young men told him of that other marvel possessed by the witch , the goat with the golden horns .
From this moment the king never closed his eyes at night for longing after this wonderful creature .
He understood something of the danger that there might be in trying to steal it , now that the witch 's suspicions were aroused , and he spent hours in making plans for outwitting her .
But somehow he never could think of anything that would do , and at last , as the brothers had foreseen , he sent for Pinkel . '
I hear , ' he said , ` that the old witch on the island has a goat with golden horns from which hang bells that tinkle the sweetest music .
That goat I must have !
But , tell me , how am I to get it ?
I would give the third part of my kingdom to anyone who would bring it to me . ' '
I will fetch it myself , ' answered Pinkel .
This time it was easier for Pinkel to approach the island unseen , as there was no golden lantern to thrown its beams over the water .
But , on the other hand , the goat slept inside the hut , and would therefore have to be taken from under the very eyes of the old woman .
How was he to do it ?
All the way across the lake he thought and thought , till at length a plan came into his head which seemed as if it might do , though he knew it would be very difficult to carry out .
The first thing he did when he reached the shore was to look about for a piece of wood , and when he had found it he hid himself close to the hut , till it grew quite dark and near the hour when the witch and her daughter went to bed .
Then he crept up and fixed the wood under the door , which opened outwards , in such a manner that the more you tried to shut it the more firmly it stuck .
And this was what happened when the girl went as usual to bolt the door and make all fast for the night .
` What are you doing ? '
asked the witch , as her daughter kept tugging at the handle .
` There is something the matter with the door ; it wo n't shut , ' answered she .
` Well , leave it alone ; there is nobody to hurt us , ' said the witch , who was very sleepy ; and the girl did as she was bid , and went to bed .
Very soon they both might have been heard snoring , and Pinkel knew that his time was come .
Slipping off his shoes he stole into the hut on tiptoe , and taking from his pocket some food of which the goat was particularly fond , he laid it under his nose .
Then , while the animal was eating it , he stuffed each golden bell with wool which he had also brought with him , stopping every minute to listen , lest the witch should awaken , and he should find himself changed into some dreadful bird or beast .
But the snoring still continued , and he went on with his work as quickly as he could .
When the last bell was done he drew another handful of food out of his pocket , and held it out to the goat , which instantly rose to its feet and followed Pinkel , who backed slowly to the door , and directly he got outside he seized the goat in his arms and ran down to the place where he had moored his boat .
As soon as he had reached the middle of the lake , Pinkel took the wool out of the bells , which began to tinkle loudly .
Their sound awoke the witch , who cried out as before : ` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
` Yes , dear mother , it is I , ' said Pinkel .
` Have you stolen my golden goat ? '
asked she .
` Yes , dear mother , I have , ' answered Pinkel .
` Are you not a knave , Pinkel ? '
` Yes , dear mother , I am , ' he replied .
And the old witch shouted in a rage : ` Ah !
beware how you come hither again , for next time you shall not escape me ! '
But Pinkel laughed and rowed on .
The king was so delighted with the goat that he always kept it by his side , night and day ; and , as he had promised , Pinkel was made ruler over the third part of the kingdom .
As may be supposed , the brothers were more furious than ever , and grew quite thin with rage .
` How can we get rid of him ? '
said one to the other .
And at length they remembered the golden cloak .
` He will need to be clever if he is to steal that ! '
they cried , with a chuckle .
And when next the king came to see his horses they began to speak of Pinkel and his marvellous cunning , and how he had contrived to steal the lantern and the goat , which nobody else would have been able to do .
` But as he was there , it is a pity he could not have brought away the golden cloak , ' added they .
` The golden cloak !
what is that ? '
asked the king .
And the young men described its beauties in such glowing words that the king declared he should never know a day 's happiness till he had wrapped the cloak round his own shoulders .
` And , ' added he , ` the man who brings it to me shall wed my daughter , and shall inherit my throne . '
` None can get it save Pinkel , ' said they ; for they did not imagine that the witch , after two warnings , could allow their brother to escape a third time .
So Pinkel was sent for , and with a glad heart he set out .
He passed many hours inventing first one plan and then another , till he had a scheme ready which he thought might prove successful .
Thrusting a large bag inside his coat , he pushed off from the shore , taking care this time to reach the island in daylight .
Having made his boat fast to a tree , he walked up to the hut , hanging his head , and putting on a face that was both sorrowful and ashamed .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
asked the witch when she saw him , her eyes gleaming savagely .
` Yes , dear mother , it is I , ' answered Pinkel .
` So you have dared , after all you have done , to put yourself in my power ! '
cried she .
` Well , you sha 'n' t escape me THIS time ! '
And she took down a large knife and began to sharpen it . '
` Oh !
dear mother , spare me ! '
shrieked Pinkel , falling on his knees , and looking wildly about him .
` Spare you , indeed , you thief !
Where are my lantern and my goat ?
No !
not !
there is only one fate for robbers ! '
And she brandished the knife in the air so that it glittered in the firelight .
` Then , if I must die , ' said Pinkel , who , by this time , was getting really rather frightened , ` let me at least choose the manner of my death .
I am very hungry , for I have had nothing to eat all day .
Put some poison , if you like , into the porridge , but at least let me have a good meal before I die . '
` That is not a bad idea , ' answered the woman ; ` as long as you do die , it is all one to me . '
And ladling out a large bowl of porridge , she stirred some poisonous herbs into it , and set about work that had to be done .
Then Pinkel hastily poured all the contents of the bowl into his bag , and make a great noise with his spoon , as if he was scraping up the last morsel .
` Poisoned or not , the porridge is excellent .
I have eaten it , every scrap ; do give me some more , ' said Pinkel , turning towards her .
` Well , you have a fine appetite , young man , ' answered the witch ; ` however , it is the last time you will ever eat it , so I will give you another bowlful . '
And rubbing in the poisonous herbs , she poured him out half of what remained , and then went to the window to call her cat .
In an instant Pinkel again emptied the porridge into the bag , and the next minute he rolled on the floor , twisting himself about as if in agony , uttering loud groans the while .
Suddenly he grew silent and lay still .
` Ah !
I thought a second dose of that poison would be too much for you , ' said the witch looking at him . '
I warned you what would happen if you came back .
I wish that all thieves were as dead as you !
But why does not my lazy girl bring the wood I sent her for , it will soon be too dark for her to find her way ?
I suppose I must go and search for her .
What a trouble girls are ! '
And she went to the door to watch if there were any signs of her daughter .
But nothing could be seen of her , and heavy rain was falling .
` It is no night for my cloak , ' she muttered ; ` it would be covered with mud by the time I got back . '
So she took it off her shoulders and hung it carefully up in a cupboard in the room .
After that she put on her clogs and started to seek her daughter .
Directly the last sound of the clogs had ceased , Pinkel jumped up and took down the cloak , and rowed off as fast as he could .
He had not gone far when a puff of wind unfolded the cloak , and its brightness shed gleams across the water .
The witch , who was just entering the forest , turned round at that moment and saw the golden rays .
She forgot all about her daughter , and ran down to the shore , screaming with rage at being outwitted a third time .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
cried she .
` Yes , dear mother , it is I. ' ` Have you taken my gold cloak ? '
` Yes , dear mother , I have . '
` Are you not a great knave ? '
` Yes , truly dear mother , I am . '
And so indeed he was !
But , all the same , he carried the cloak to the king 's palace , and in return he received the hand of the king 's daughter in marriage .
People said that it was the bride who ought to have worn the cloak at her wedding feast ; but the king was so pleased with it that he would not part from it ; and to the end of his life was never seen without it .
After his death , Pinkel became king ; and let up hope that he gave up his bad and thievish ways , and ruled his subjects well .
As for his brothers , he did not punish them , but left them in the stables , where they grumbled all day long .
The Adventures of a Jackal -LSB- Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
In a country which is full of wild beasts of all sorts there once lived a jackal and a hedgehog , and , unlike though they were , the two animals made great friends , and were often seen in each other 's company .
One afternoon they were walking along a road together , when the jackal , who was the taller of the two , exclaimed : ` Oh !
there is a barn full of corn ; let us go and eat some . '
` Yes , do let us ! '
answered the hedgehog .
So they went to the barn , and ate till they could eat no more .
Then the jackal put on his shoes , which he had taken off so as to make no noise , and they returned to the high road .
After they had gone some way they met a panther , who stopped , and bowing politely , said : ` Excuse my speaking to you , but I can not help admiring those shoes of yours .
Do you mind telling me who made them ? '
` Yes , I think they are rather nice , ' answered the jackal ; ' I made them myself , though . '
` Could you make me a pair like them ? '
asked the panther eagerly . '
I would do my best , of course , ' replied the jackal ; ` but you must kill me a cow , and when we have eaten the flesh I will take the skin and make your shoes out of it . '
So the panther prowled about until he saw a fine cow grazing apart from the rest of the herd .
He killed it instantly , and then gave a cry to the jackal and hedgehog to come to the place where he was .
They soon skinned the dead beasts , and spread its skin out to dry , after which they had a grand feast before they curled themselves up for the night , and slept soundly .
Next morning the jackal got up early and set to work upon the shoes , while the panther sat by and looked on with delight .
At last they were finished , and the jackal arose and stretched himself .
` Now go and lay them in the sun out there , ' said he ; ` in a couple of hours they will be ready to put on ; but do not attempt to wear them before , or you will feel them most uncomfortable .
But I see the sun is high in the heavens , and we must be continuing our journey . '
The panther , who always believed what everybody told him , did exactly as he was bid , and in two hours ' time began to fasten on the shoes .
They certainly set off his paws wonderfully , and he stretched out his forepaws and looked at them with pride .
But when he tried to walk -- ah !
that was another story !
They were so stiff and hard that he nearly shrieked every step he took , and at last he sank down where he was , and actually began to cry .
After some time some little partridges who were hopping about heard the poor panther 's groans , and went up to see what was the matter .
He had never tried to make his dinner off them , and they had always been quite friendly .
` You seem in pain , ' said one of them , fluttering close to him , ` can we help you ? '
` Oh , it is the jackal !
He made me these shoes ; they are so hard and tight that they hurt my feet , and I can not manage to kick them off . '
` Lie still , and we will soften them , ' answered the kind little partridge .
And calling to his brothers , they all flew to the nearest spring , and carried water in their beaks , which they poured over the shoes .
This they did till the hard leather grew soft , and the panther was able to slip his feet out of them .
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' he cried , skipping round with joy . '
I feel a different creature .
Now I will go after the jackal and pay him my debts . '
And he bounded away into the forest .
But the jackal had been very cunning , and had trotted backwards and forwards and in and out , so that it was very difficult to know which track he had really followed .
At length , however , the panther caught sight of his enemy , at the same moment that the jackal had caught sight of him .
The panther gave a loud roar , and sprang forward , but the jackal was too quick for him and plunged into a dense thicket , where the panther could not follow .
Disgusted with his failure , but more angry than ever , the panther lay down for a while to consider what he should do next , and as he was thinking , an old man came by .
` Oh !
father , tell me how I can repay the jackal for the way he has served me ! '
And without more ado he told his story .
` If you take my advice , ' answered the old man , ` you will kill a cow , and invite all the jackals in the forest to the feast .
Watch them carefully while they are eating , and you will see that most of them keep their eyes on their food .
But if one of them glances at you , you will know that is the traitor . '
The panther , whose manners were always good , thanked the old man , and followed his counsel .
The cow was killed , and the partridges flew about with invitations to the jackals , who gathered in large numbers to the feast .
The wicked jackal came amongst them ; but as the panther had only seen him once he could not distinguish him from the rest .
However , they all took their places on wooden seats placed round the dead cow , which was laid across the boughs of a fallen tree , and began their dinner , each jackal fixing his eyes greedily on the piece of meat before him .
Only one of them seemed uneasy , and every now and then glanced in the direction of his host .
This the panther noticed , and suddenly made a bound at the culprit and seized his tail ; but again the jackal was too quick for him , and catching up a knife he cut off his tail and darted into the forest , followed by all the rest of the party .
And before the panther had recovered from his surprise he found himself alone .
` What am I to do now ? '
he asked the old man , who soon came back to see how things had turned out .
` It is very unfortunate , certainly , ' answered he ; ` but I think I know where you can find him .
There is a melon garden about two miles from here , and as jackals are very fond of melons they are nearly sure to have gone there to feed .
If you see a tailless jackal you will know that he is the one you want . '
So the panther thanked him and went his way .
Now the jackal had guessed what advice the old man would give his enemy , and so , while his friends were greedily eating the ripest melons in the sunniest corner of the garden , he stole behind them and tied their tails together .
He had only just finished when his ears caught the sound of breaking branches ; and he cried : ` Quick !
quick !
here comes the master of the garden ! '
And the jackals sprang up and ran away in all directions , leaving their tails behind them .
And how was the panther to know which was his enemy ?
` They none of them had any tails , ' he said sadly to the old man , ` and I am tired of hunting them .
I shall leave them alone and go and catch something for supper . '
Of course the hedgehog had not been able to take part in any of these adventures ; but as soon as all danger was over , the jackal went to look for his friend , whom he was lucky enough to find at home .
` Ah , there you are , ' he said gaily . '
I have lost my tail since I saw you last .
And other people have lost theirs too ; but that is no matter !
I am hungry , so come with me to the shepherd who is sitting over there , and we will ask him to sell us one of his sheep . '
` Yes , that is a good plan , ' answered the hedgehog .
And he walked as fast as his little legs would go to keep up with the jackal .
When they reached the shepherd the jackal pulled out his purse from under his foreleg , and made his bargain .
` Only wait till to-morrow , ' said the shepherd , ` and I will give you the biggest sheep you ever saw .
But he always feeds at some distance from the rest of the flock , and it would take me a long time to catch him . '
` Well , it is very tiresome , but I suppose I must wait , ' replied the jackal .
And he and the hedgehog looked about for a nice dry cave in which to make themselves comfortable for the night .
But , after they had gone , the shepherd killed one of his sheep , and stripped off his skin , which he sewed tightly round a greyhound he had with him , and put a cord round its neck .
Then he lay down and went to sleep .
Very , very early , before the sun was properly up , the jackal and the hedgehog were pulling at the shepherd 's cloak .
` Wake up , ' they said , ` and give us that sheep .
We have had nothing to eat all night , and are very hungry . '
The shepherd yawned and rubbed his eyes .
` He is tied up to that tree ; go and take him . '
So they went to the tree and unfastened the cord , and turned to go back to the cave where they had slept , dragging the greyhound after them .
When they reached the cave the jackal said to the hedgehog .
` Before I kill him let me see whether he is fat or thin . '
And he stood a little way back , so that he might the better examine the animal .
After looking at him , with his head on one side , for a minute or two , he nodded gravely .
` He is quite fat enough ; he is a good sheep . '
But the hedgehog , who sometimes showed more cunning than anyone would have guessed , answered : ` My friend , you are talking nonsense .
The wool is indeed a sheep 's wool , but the paws of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath . '
` He is a sheep , ' repeated the jackal , who did not like to think anyone cleverer than himself .
` Hold the cord while I look at him , ' answered the hedgehog .
Very unwillingly the jackal held the rope , while the hedgehog walked slowly round the greyhound till he reached the jackal again .
He knew quite well by the paws and tail that it was a greyhound and not a sheep , that the shepherd had sold them ; and as he could not tell what turn affairs might take , he resolved to get out of the way .
` Oh !
yes , you are right , ' he said to the jackal ; ` but I never can eat till I have first drunk .
I will just go and quench my thirst from that spring at the edge of the wood , and then I shall be ready for breakfast . '
` Do n't be long , then , ' called the jackal , as the hedgehog hurried off at his best pace .
And he lay down under a rock to wait for him .
More than an hour passed by and the hedgehog had had plenty of time to go to the spring and back , and still there was no sign of him .
And this was very natural , as he had hidden himself in some long grass under a tree !
At length the jackal guessed that for some reason his friend had run away , and determined to wait for his breakfast no longer .
So he went up to the place where the greyhound had been tethered and untied the rope .
But just as he was about to spring on his back and give him a deadly bite , the jackal heard a low growl , which never proceeded from the throat of any sheep .
Like a flash of lightning the jackal threw down the cord and was flying across the plain ; but though his legs were long , the greyhound 's legs were longer still , and he soon came up with his prey .
The jackal turned to fight , but he was no match for the greyhound , and in a few minutes he was lying dead on the ground , while the greyhound was trotting peacefully back to the shepherd .
The Adventures of the Jackal 's Eldest Son -LSB- Nouveaux Contes Berberes , par Rene Basset . -RSB-
Now , though the jackal was dead , he had left two sons behind him , every whit as cunning and tricky as their father .
The elder of the two was a fine handsome creature , who had a pleasant manner and made many friends .
The animal he saw most of was a hyena ; and one day , when they were taking a walk together , they picked up a beautiful green cloak , which had evidently been dropped by some one riding across the plain on a camel .
Of course each wanted to have it , and they almost quarrelled over the matter ; but at length it was settled that the hyena should wear the cloak by day and the jackal by night .
After a little while , however , the jackal became discontented with this arrangement , declaring that none of his friends , who were quite different from those of the hyena , could see the splendour of the mantle , and that it was only fair that he should sometimes be allowed to wear it by day .
To this the hyena would by no means consent , and they were on the eve of a quarrel when the hyena proposed that they should ask the lion to judge between them .
The jackal agreed to this , and the hyena wrapped the cloak about him , and they both trotted off to the lion 's den .
The jackal , who was fond of talking , at once told the story ; and when it was finished the lion turned to the hyena and asked if it was true .
` Quite true , your majesty , ' answered the hyena .
` Then lay the cloak on the ground at my feet , ' said the lion , ` and I will give my judgment . '
So the mantle was spread upon the red earth , the hyena and the jackal standing on each side of it .
There was silence for a few moments , and then the lion sat up , looking very great and wise .
` My judgment is that the garment shall belong wholly to whoever first rings the bell of the nearest mosque at dawn to-morrow .
Now go ; for much business awaits me ! '
All that night the hyena sat up , fearing lest the jackal should reach the bell before him , for the mosque was close at hand .
With the first streak of dawn he bounded away to the bell , just as the jackal , who had slept soundly all night , was rising to his feet .
` Good luck to you , ' cried the jackal .
And throwing the cloak over his back he darted away across the plain , and was seen no more by his friend the hyena .
After running several miles the jackal thought he was safe from pursuit , and seeing a lion and another hyena talking together , he strolled up to join them .
` Good morning , ' he said ; ` may I ask what is the matter ?
You seem very serious about something . '
` Pray sit down , ' answered the lion .
` We were wondering in which direction we should go to find the best dinner .
The hyena wishes to go to the forest , and I to the mountains .
What do you say ? '
` Well , as I was sauntering over the plain , just now , I noticed a flock of sheep grazing , and some of them had wandered into a little valley quite out of sight of the shepherd .
If you keep among the rocks you will never be observed .
But perhaps you will allow me to go with you and show you the way ? '
` You are really very kind , ' answered the lion .
And they crept steadily along till at length they reached the mouth of the valley where a ram , a sheep and a lamb were feeding on the rich grass , unconscious of their danger .
` How shall we divide them ? '
asked the lion in a whisper to the hyena .
` Oh , it is easily done , ' replied the hyena .
` The lamb for me , the sheep for the jackal , and the ram for the lion . '
` So I am to have that lean creature , which is nothing but horns , am I ? '
cried the lion in a rage . '
I will teach you to divide things in that manner ! '
And he gave the hyena two great blows , which stretched him dead in a moment .
Then he turned to the jackal and said : ` How would you divide them ? '
` Quite differently from the hyena , ' replied the jackal .
` You will breakfast off the lamb , you will dine off the sheep , and you will sup off the ram . '
` Dear me , how clever you are !
Who taught you such wisdom ? '
exclaimed the lion , looking at him admiringly .
` The fate of the hyena , ' answered the jackal , laughing , and running off at his best speed ; for he saw two men armed with spears coming close behind the lion !
The jackal continued to run till at last he could run no longer .
He flung himself under a tree panting for breath , when he heard a rustle amongst the grass , and his father 's old friend the hedgehog appeared before him .
` Oh , is it you ? '
asked the little creature ; ` how strange that we should meet so far from home ! ' '
I have just had a narrow escape of my life , ' gasped the jackal , ` and I need some sleep .
After that we must think of something to do to amuse ourselves . '
And he lay down again and slept soundly for a couple of hours .
` Now I am ready , ' said he ; ` have you anything to propose ? '
` In a valley beyond those trees , ' answered the hedgehog , ` there is a small farmhouse where the best butter in the world is made .
I know their ways , and in an hour 's time the farmer 's wife will be off to milk the cows , which she keeps at some distance .
We could easily get in at the window of the shed where she keeps the butter , and I will watch , lest some one should come unexpectedly , while you have a good meal .
Then you shall watch , and I will eat . '
` That sounds a good plan , ' replied the jackal ; and they set off together .
But when they reached the farmhouse the jackal said to the hedgehog : ` Go in and fetch the pots of butter and I will hide them in a safe place . '
` Oh no , ' cried the hedgehog , ' I really could n't .
They would find out directly !
And , besides , it is so different just eating a little now and then . '
` Do as I bid you at once , ' said the jackal , looking at the hedgehog so sternly that the little fellow dared say no more , and soon rolled the jars to the window where the jackal lifted them out one by one .
When they were all in a row before him he gave a sudden start .
` Run for your life , ' he whispered to his companion ; ' I see the woman coming over the hill ! '
And the hedgehog , his heart beating , set off as fast as he could .
The jackal remained where he was , shaking with laughter , for the woman was not in sight at all , and he had only sent the hedgehog away because he did not want him to know where the jars of butter were buried .
But every day he stole out to their hiding-place and had a delicious feast .
At length , one morning , the hedgehog suddenly said : ` You never told me what you did with those jars ? '
` Oh , I hid them safely till the farm people should have forgotten all about them , ' replied the jackal .
` But as they are still searching for them we must wait a little longer , and then I 'll bring them home , and we will share them between us . '
So the hedgehog waited and waited ; but every time he asked if there was no chance of getting jars of butter the jackal put him off with some excuse .
After a while the hedgehog became suspicious , and said : ' I should like to know where you have hidden them .
To-night , when it is quite dark , you shall show me the place . ' '
I really ca n't tell you , ' answered the jackal .
` You talk so much that you would be sure to confide the secret to somebody , and then we should have had our trouble for nothing , besides running the risk of our necks being broken by the farmer .
I can see that he is getting disheartened , and very soon he will give up the search .
Have patience just a little longer . '
The hedgehop said no more , and pretended to be satisfied ; but when some days had gone by he woke the jackal , who was sleeping soundly after a hunt which had lasted several hours . '
I have just had notice , ' remarked the hedgehog , shaking him , ` that my family wish to have a banquet to-morrow , and they have invited you to it .
Will you come ? '
` Certainly , ' answered the jackal , ` with pleasure .
But as I have to go out in the morning you can meet me on the road . '
` That will do very well , ' replied the hedgehog .
And the jackal went to sleep again , for he was obliged to be up early .
Punctual to the moment the hedgehog arrived at the place appointed for their meeting , and as the jackal was not there he sat down and waited for him .
` Ah , there you are ! '
he cried , when the dusky yellow form at last turned the corner . '
I had nearly given you up !
Indeed , I almost wish you had not come , for I hardly know where I shall hide you . '
` Why should you hide me anywhere ? '
asked the jackal .
` What is the matter with you ? '
` Well , so many of the guests have brought their dogs and mules with them , that I fear it may hardly be safe for you to go amongst them .
No ; do n't run off that way , ' he added quickly , ` because there is another troop that are coming over the hill .
Lie down here , and I will throw these sacks over you ; and keep still for your life , whatever happens . '
And what did happen was , that when the jackal was lying covered up , under a little hill , the hedgehog set a great stone rolling , which crushed him to death .
The Adventures of the Younger Son of the Jackal -LSB- Contes Berberes . -RSB-
Now that the father and elder brother were both dead , all that was left of the jackal family was one son , who was no less cunning than the others had been .
He did not like staying in the same place any better than they , and nobody ever knew in what part of the country he might be found next .
One day , when we was wandering about he beheld a nice fat sheep , which was cropping the grass and seemed quite contented with her lot .
` Good morning , ' said the jackal , ' I am so glad to see you .
I have been looking for you everywhere . '
` For ME ? '
answered the sheep , in an astonished voice ; ` but we have never met before ! '
` No ; but I have heard of you .
Oh !
You do n't know what fine things I have heard !
Ah , well , some people have all the luck ! '
` You are very kind , I am sure , ' answered the sheep , not knowing which way to look .
` Is there any way in which I can help you ? '
` There is something that I had set my heart on , though I hardly like to propose it on so short an acquaintance ; but from what people have told me , I thought that you and I might keep house together comfortably , if you would only agree to try .
I have several fields belonging to me , and if they are kept well watered they bear wonderful crops . '
` Perhaps I might come for a short time , ' said the sheep , with a little hesitation ; ` and if we do not get on , we can part company . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' cried the jackal ; ` do not let us lose a moment . '
And he held out his paw in such an inviting manner that the sheep got up and trotted beside him till they reached home .
` Now , ' said the jackal , ` you go to the well and fetch the water , and I will pour it into the trenches that run between the patches of corn . '
And as he did so he sang lustily .
The work was very hard , but the sheep did not grumble , and by-and-by was rewarded at seeing the little green heads poking themselves through earth .
After that the hot sun ripened them quickly , and soon harvest time was come .
Then the grain was cut and ground and ready for sale .
When everything was complete , the jackal said to the sheep : ` Now let us divide it , so that we can each do what we like with his share . '
` You do it , ' answered the sheep ; ` here are the scales .
You must weigh it carefully . '
So the jackal began to weigh it , and when he had finished , he counted out loud : ` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven parts for the jackal , and one part for the sheep .
If she likes it she can take it , if not , she can leave it . '
The sheep looked at the two heaps in silence -- one so large , the other so small ; and then she answered : ` Wait for a minute , while I fetch some sacks to carry away my share . '
But it was not sacks that the sheep wanted ; for as soon as the jackal could no longer see her she set forth at her best pace to the home of the greyhound , where she arrived panting with the haste she had made .
` Oh , good uncle , help me , I pray you ! '
she cried , as soon as she could speak .
` Why , what is the matter ? '
asked the greyhound , looking up with astonishment . '
I beg you to return with me , and frighten the jackal into paying me what he owes me , ' answered the sheep .
` For months we have lived together , and I have twice every day drawn the water , while he only poured it into the trenches .
Together we have reaped our harvest ; and now , when the moment to divide our crop has come , he has taken seven parts for himself , and only left one for me . '
She finished , and giving herself a twist , passed her woolly tail across her eyes ; while the greyhound watched her , but held his peace .
Then he said : ` Bring me a sack . '
And the sheep hastened away to fetch one .
Very soon she returned , and laid the sack down before him .
` Open it wide , that I may get in , ' cried he ; and when he was comfortably rolled up inside he bade the sheep take him on her back , and hasten to the place where she had left the jackal .
She found him waiting for her , and pretending to be asleep , though she clearly saw him wink one of his eyes .
However , she took no notice , but throwing the sack roughly on the ground , she exclaimed : ` Now measure ! '
At this the jackal got up , and going to the heap of grain which lay close by , he divided it as before into eight portions -- seven for himself and one for the sheep .
` What are you doing that for ? '
asked she indignantly .
` You know quite well that it was I who drew the water , and you who only poured it into the trenches . '
` You are mistaken , ' answered the jackal .
` It was I who drew the water , and you who poured it into the trenches .
Anybody will tell you that !
If you like , I will ask those people who are digging there ! '
` Very well , ' replied the sheep .
And the jackal called out : ` Ho !
You diggers , tell me : Who was it you heard singing over the work ? '
` Why , it was you , of course , jackal !
You sang so loud that the whole world might have heard you ! '
` And who it is that sings -- he who draws the water , or he who empties it ? '
` Why , certainly he who draws the water ! '
` You hear ? '
said the jackal , turning to the sheep .
` Now come and carry away your own portion , or else I shall take it for myself . '
` You have got the better of me , ' answered the sheep ; ` and I suppose I must confess myself beaten !
But as I bear no malice , go and eat some of the dates that I have brought in that sack . '
And the jackal , who loved dates , ran instantly back , and tore open the mouth of the sack .
But just as he was about to plunge his nose in he saw two brown eyes calmly looking at him .
In an instant he had let fall the flap of the sack and bounded back to where the sheep was standing . '
I was only in fun ; and you have brought my uncle the greyhound .
Take away the sack , we will make the division over again . '
And he began rearranging the heaps .
` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , for my mother the sheep , and one for the jackal , ' counted he ; casting timid glances all the while at the sack .
` Now you can take your share and go , ' said the sheep .
And the jackal did not need twice telling !
Whenever the sheep looked up , she still saw him flying , flying across the plain ; and , for all I know , he may be flying across it still .
The Three Treasures of the Giants -LSB- Contes Berberes , par Rene Basset . -RSB-
Long , long ago , there lived an old man and his wife who had three sons ; the eldest was called Martin , the second Michael , while the third was named Jack .
One evening they were all seated round the table , eating their supper of bread and milk .
` Martin , ' said the old man suddenly , ' I feel that I can not live much longer .
You , as the eldest , will inherit this hut ; but , if you value my blessing , be good to your mother and brothers . '
` Certainly , father ; how can you suppose I should do them wrong ? '
replied Martin indignantly , helping himself to all the best bits in the dish as he spoke .
The old man saw nothing , but Michael looked on in surprise , and Jack was so astonished that he quite forgot to eat his own supper .
A little while after , the father fell ill , and sent for his sons , who were out hunting , to bid him farewell .
After giving good advice to the two eldest , he turned to Jack .
` My boy , ' he said , ` you have not got quite as much sense as other people , but if Heaven has deprived you of some of your wits , it was given you a kind heart .
Always listen to what it says , and take heed to the words of your mother and brothers , as well as you are able ! '
So saying the old man sank back on his pillows and died .
The cries of grief uttered by Martin and Michael sounded through the house , but Jack remained by the bedside of his father , still and silent , as if he were dead also .
At length he got up , and going into the garden , hid himself in some trees , and wept like a child , while his two brothers made ready for the funeral .
No sooner was the old man buried than Martin and Michael agreed that they would go into the world together to seek their fortunes , while Jack stayed at home with their mother .
Jack would have liked nothing better than to sit and dream by the fire , but the mother , who was very old herself , declared that there was no work for him to do , and that he must seek it with his brothers .
So , one fine morning , all three set out ; Martin and Michael carried two great bags full of food , but Jack carried nothing .
This made his brothers very angry , for the day was hot and the bags were heavy , and about noon they sat down under a tree and began to eat .
Jack was as hungry as they were , but he knew that it was no use asking for anything ; and he threw himself under another tree , and wept bitterly .
` Another time perhaps you wo n't be so lazy , and will bring food for yourself , ' said Martin , but to his surprise Jack answered : ` You are a nice pair !
You talk of seeking your fortunes so as not to be a burden on our mother , and you begin by carrying off all the food she has in the house ! '
This reply was so unexpected that for some moments neither of the brothers made any answer .
Then they offered their brother some of their food , and when he had finished eating they went their way once more .
Towards evening they reached a small hut , and knocking at the door , asked if they might spend the night there .
The man , who was a wood-cutter , invited them him , and begged them to sit down to supper .
Martin thanked him , but being very proud , explained that it was only shelter they wanted , as they had plenty of food with them ; and he and Michael at once opened their bags and began to eat , while Jack hid himself in a corner .
The wife , on seeing this , took pity on him , and called him to come and share their supper , which he gladly did , and very good he found it .
At this , Martin regretted deeply that he had been so foolish as to refuse , for his bits of bread and cheese seemed very hard when he smelt the savoury soup his brother was enjoying .
` He sha n't have such a chance again , ' thought he ; and the next morning he insisted on plunging into a thick forest where they were likely to meet nobody .
For a long time they wandered hither and thither , for they had no path to guide them ; but at last they came upon a wide clearing , in the midst of which stood a castle .
Jack shouted with delight , but Martin , who was in a bad temper , said sharply : ` We must have taken a wrong turning !
Let us go back . '
` Idiot ! '
replied Michael , who was hungry too , and , like many people when they are hungry , very cross also .
` We set out to travel through the world , and what does it matter if we go to the right or to the left ? '
And , without another word , took the path to the castle , closely followed by Jack , and after a moment by Martin likewise .
The door of the castle stood open , and they entered a great hall , and looked about them .
Not a creature was to be seen , and suddenly Martin -- he did not know why -- felt a little frightened .
He would have left the castle at once , but stopped when Jack boldly walked up to a door in the wall and opened it .
He could not for very shame be outdone by his younger brother , and passed behind him into another splendid hall , which was filled from floor to ceiling with great pieces of copper money .
The sight quite dazzled Martin and Michael , who emptied all the provisions that remained out of their bags , and heaped them up instead with handfuls of copper .
Scarcely had they done this when Jack threw open another door , and this time it led to a hall filled with silver .
In an instant his brothers had turned their bags upside down , so that the copper money tumbled out on to the floor , and were shovelling in handfuls of the silver instead .
They had hardly finished , when Jack opened yet a third door , and all three fell back in amazement , for this room as a mass of gold , so bright that their eyes grew sore as they looked at it .
However , they soon recovered from their surprise , and quickly emptied their bags of silver , and filled them with gold instead .
When they would hold no more , Martin said : ` We had better hurry off now lest somebody else should come , and we might not know what to do ' ; and , followed by Michael , he hastily left the castle .
Jack lingered behind for a few minutes to put pieces of gold , silver , and copper into his pocket , and to eat the food that his brothers had thrown down in the first room .
Then he went after them , and found them lying down to rest in the midst of a forest .
It was near sunset , and Martin began to feel hungry , so , when Jack arrived , he bade him return to the castle and bring the bread and cheese that they had left there .
` It is hardly worth doing that , ' answered Jack ; ` for I picked up the pieces and ate them myself . '
At this reply both brothers were beside themselves with anger , and fell upon the boy , beating him , and calling him names , till they were quite tired .
` Go where you like , ' cried Martin with a final kick ; ` but never come near us again . '
And poor Jack ran weeping into the woods .
The next morning his brothers went home , and bought a beautiful house , where they lived with their mother like great lords .
Jack remained for some hours in hiding , thankful to be safe from his tormentors ; but when no one came to trouble him , and his back did not ache so much , he began to think what he had better do .
At length he made up his mind to go to the caste and take away as much money with him as would enable him to live in comfort for the rest of his life .
This being decided , he sprang up , and set out along the path which led to the castle .
As before , the door stood open , and he went on till he had reached the hall of gold , and there he took off his jacket and tied the sleeves together so that it might make a kind of bag .
He then began to pour in the gold by handfuls , when , all at once , a noise like thunder shook the castle .
This was followed by a voice , hoarse as that of a bull , which cried : ' I smell the smell of a man . '
And two giants entered .
` So , little worm !
it is you who steal our treasures ! '
exclaimed the biggest .
` Well , we have got you now , and we will cook you for supper ! '
But here the other giant drew him aside , and for a moment or two they whispered together .
At length the first giant spoke : ` To please my friend I will spare your life on condition that , for the future , you shall guard our treasures .
If you are hungry take this little table and rap on it , saying , as you do so : `` The dinner of an emperor ! ''
and you will get as much food as you want . '
With a light heart Jack promised all that was asked of him , and for some days enjoyed himself mightily .
He had everything he could wish for , and did nothing from morning till night ; but by-and-by he began to get very tired of it all .
` Let the giants guard their treasures themselves , ' he said to himself at last ; ' I am going away .
But I will leave all the gold and silver behind me , and will take nought but you , my good little table . '
So , tucking the table under his arm , he started off for the forest , but he did not linger there long , and soon found himself in the fields on the other side .
There he saw an old man , who begged Jack to give him something to eat .
` You could not have asked a better person , ' answered Jack cheerfully .
And signing to him to sit down with him under a tree , he set the table in front of them , and struck it three times , crying : ` The dinner of an emperor ! '
He had hardly uttered the words when fish and meat of all kinds appeared on it !
` That is a clever trick of yours , ' said the old man , when he had eaten as much as he wanted .
` Give it to me in exchange for a treasure I have which is still better .
Do you see this cornet ?
Well , you have only to tell it that you wish for an army , and you will have as many soldiers as you require . '
Now , since he had been left to himself , Jack had grown ambitious , so , after a moment 's hesitation , he took the cornet and gave the table in exchange .
The old man bade him farewell , and set off down one path , while Jack chose another , and for a long time he was quite pleased with his new possession .
Then , as he felt hungry , he wished for his table back again , as no house was in sight , and he wanted some supper badly .
All at once he remembered his cornet , and a wicked thought entered his mind .
` Two hundred hussars , forward ! '
cried he .
And the neighing of horses and the clanking of swords were heard close at hand .
The officer who rode at their head approached Jack , and politely inquired what he wished them to do . '
A mile or two along that road , ' answered Jack , ` you will find an old man carrying a table .
Take the table from him and bring it to me . '
The officer saluted and went back to his men , who started at a gallop to do Jack 's bidding .
In ten minutes they had returned , bearing the table with them .
` That is all , thank you , ' said Jack ; and the soldiers disappeared inside the cornet .
Oh , what a good supper Jack had that night , quite forgetting that he owed it to a mean trick .
The next day he breakfasted early , and then walked on towards the nearest town .
On the way thither he met another old man , who begged for something to eat .
` Certainly , you shall have something to eat , ' replied Jack .
And , placing the table on the ground he cried : ` The dinner of an emperor ! '
when all sorts of food dishes appeared .
At first the old man ate quite greedily , and said nothing ; but , after his hunger was satisfied , he turned to Jack and said : ` That is a very clever trick of yours .
Give the table to me and you shall have something still better . ' '
I do n't believe that there is anything better , ' answered Jack .
` Yes , there is .
Here is my bag ; it will give you as many castles as you can possibly want . '
Jack thought for a moment ; then he replied : ` Very well , I will exchange with you . '
And passing the table to the old man , he hung the bag over his arm .
Five minutes later he summoned five hundred lancers out of the cornet and bade them go after the old man and fetch back the table .
Now that by his cunning he had obtained possession of the three magic objects , he resolved to return to his native place .
Smearing his face with dirt , and tearing his clothes so as to look like a beggar , he stopped the passers by and , on pretence of seeking money or food , he questioned them about the village gossip .
In this manner he learned that his brothers had become great men , much respected in all the country round .
When he heard that , he lost no time in going to the door of their fine house and imploring them to give him food and shelter ; but the only thing he got was hard words , and a command to beg elsewhere .
At length , however , at their mother 's entreaty , he was told that he might pass the night in the stable .
Here he waited until everybody in the house was sound asleep , when he drew his bag from under his cloak , and desired that a castle might appear in that place ; and the cornet gave him soldiers to guard the castle , while the table furnished him with a good supper .
In the morning , he caused it all to vanish , and when his brothers entered the stable they found him lying on the straw .
Jack remained here for many days , doing nothing , and -- as far as anybody knew -- eating nothing .
This conduct puzzled his brothers greatly , and they put such constant questions to him , that at length he told them the secret of the table , and even gave a dinner to them , which far outdid any they had ever seen or heard of .
But though they had solemnly promised to reveal nothing , somehow or other the tale leaked out , and before long reached the ears of the king himself .
That very evening his chamberlain arrived at Jack 's dwelling , with a request from the king that he might borrow the table for three days .
` Very well , ' answered Jack , ` you can take it back with you .
But tell his majesty that if he does not return it at the end of the three days I will make war upon him . '
So the chamberlain carried away the table and took it straight to the king , telling him at the same time of Jack 's threat , at which they both laughed till their sides ached .
Now the king was so delighted with the table , and the dinners it gave him , that when the three days were over he could not make up his mind to part with it .
Instead , he sent for his carpenter , and bade him copy it exactly , and when it was done he told his chamberlain to return it to Jack with his best thanks .
It happened to be dinner time , and Jack invited the chamberlain , who knew nothing of the trick , to stay and dine with him .
The good man , who had eaten several excellent meals provided by the table in the last three days , accepted the invitation with pleasure , even though he was to dine in a stable , and sat down on the straw beside Jack .
` The dinner of an emperor ! '
cried Jack .
But not even a morsel of cheese made its appearance .
` The dinner of an emperor ! '
shouted Jack in a voice of thunder .
Then the truth dawned on him ; and , crushing the table between his hands , he turned to the chamberlain , who , bewildered and half-frightened , was wondering how to get away .
` Tell your false king that to-morrow I will destroy his castle as easily as I have broken this table . '
The chamberlain hastened back to the palace , and gave the king Jack 's message , at which he laughed more than before , and called all his courtiers to hear the story .
But they were not quite so merry when they woke next morning and beheld ten thousand horsemen , and as many archers , surrounding the palace .
The king saw it was useless to hold out , and he took the white flag of truce in one hand , and the real table in the other , and set out to look for Jack . '
I committed a crime , ' said he ; ` but I will do my best to make up for it .
Here is your table , which I own with shame that I tried to steal , and you shall have besides , my daughter as your wife ! '
There was no need to delay the marriage when the table was able to furnish the most splendid banquet that ever was seen , and after everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted , Jack took his bag and commanded a castle filled with all sorts of treasures to arise in the park for himself and his bride .
At this proof of his power the king 's heart died within him .
` Your magic is greater than mine , ' he said ; ` and you are young and strong , while I am old and tired .
Take , therefore , the sceptre from my hand , and my crown from my head , and rule my people better than I have done . '
So at last Jack 's ambition was satisfied .
He could not hope to be more than king , and as long as he had his cornet to provide him with soldiers he was secure against his enemies .
He never forgave his brothers for the way they had treated him , though he presented his mother with a beautiful castle , and everything she could possibly wish for .
In the centre of his own palace was a treasure chamber , and in this chamber the table , the cornet , and the bag were kept as the most prized of all his possessions , and not a week passed without a visit from king John to make sure they were safe .
He reigned long and well , and died a very old man , beloved by his people .
But his good example was not followed by his sons and his grandsons .
They grew so proud that they were ashamed to think that the founder of their race had once been a poor boy ; and as they and all the world could not fail to remember it , as long as the table , the cornet , and the bag were shown in the treasure chamber , one king , more foolish than the rest , thrust them into a dark and damp cellar .
For some time the kingdom remained , though it became weaker and weaker every year that passed .
Then , one day , a rumour reached the king that a large army was marching against him .
Vaguely he recollected some tales he had heard about a magic cornet which could provide as many soldiers as would serve to conquer the earth , and which had been removed by his grandfather to a cellar .
Thither he hastened that he might renew his power once more , and in that black and slimy spot he found the treasures indeed .
But the table fell to pieces as he touched it , in the cornet there remained only a few fragments of leathern belts which the rats had gnawed , and in the bag nothing but broken bits of stone .
And the king bowed his head to the doom that awaited him , and in his heart cursed the ruin wrought by the pride and foolishness of himself and his forefathers .
The Rover of the Plain -LSB- From Contes Populaires Slaves , par Louis Leger . -RSB-
A long way off , near the sea coast of the east of Africa , there dwelt , once upon a time , a man and his wife .
They had two children , a son and a daughter , whom they loved very much , and , like parents in other countries , they often talked of the fine marriages the young people would make some day .
Out there both boys and girls marry early , and very soon , it seemed to the mother , a message was sent by a rich man on the other side of the great hills offering a fat herd of oxen in exchange for the girl .
Everyone in the house and in the village rejoiced , and the maiden was despatched to her new home .
When all was quiet again the father said to his son : ` Now that we own such a splendid troop of oxen you had better hasten and get yourself a wife , lest some illness should overtake them .
Already we have seen in the villages round about one or two damsels whose parents would gladly part with them for less than half the herd .
Therefore tell us which you like best , and we will buy her for you . '
But the son answered : ` Not so ; the maidens I have seen do not please me .
If , indeed , I must marry , let me travel and find a wife for myself . '
` It shall be as you wish , ' said the parents ; ` but if by-and-by trouble should come of it , it will be your fault and not ours . '
The youth , however , would not listen ; and bidding his father and mother farewell , set out on his search .
Far , far away he wandered , over mountains and across rivers , till he reached a village where the people were quite different from those of his own race .
He glanced about him and noticed that the girls were fair to look upon , as they pounded maize or stewed something that smelt very nice in earthen pots -- especially if you were hot and tired ; and when one of the maidens turned round and offered the stranger some dinner , he made up his mind that he would wed her and nobody else .
So he sent a message to her parents asking their leave to take her for his wife , and they came next day to bring their answer .
` We will give you our daughter , ' said they , ` if you can pay a good price for her .
Never was there so hardworking a girl ; and how we shall do without her we can not tell !
Still -- no doubt your father and mother will come themselves and bring the price ? '
` No ; I have the price with me , ' replied the young man ; laying down a handful of gold pieces .
` Here it is -- take it . '
The old couple 's eyes glittered greedily ; but custom forbade them to touch the price before all was arranged .
` At least , ' said they , after a moment 's pause , ` we may expect them to fetch your wife to her new home ? '
` No ; they are not used to travelling , ' answered the bridegroom .
` Let the ceremony be performed without delay , and we will set forth at once .
It is a long journey . '
Then the parents called in the girl , who was lying in the sun outside the hut , and , in the presence of all the village , a goat was killed , the sacred dance took place , and a blessing was said over the heads of the young people .
After that the bride was led aside by her father , whose duty it was to bestow on her some parting advice as to her conduct in her married life .
` Be good to your husband 's parents , ' added he , ` and always do the will of your husband . '
And the girl nodded her head obediently .
Next it was the mother 's turn ; and , as was the custom of the tribe , she spoke to her daughter : ` Will you choose which of your sisters shall go with you to cut your wood and carry your water ? ' '
I do not want any of them , ' answered she ; ` they are no use .
They will drop the wood and spill the water . '
` Then will you have any of the other children ?
There are enough to spare , ' asked the mother again .
But the bride said quickly : ' I will have none of them !
You must give me our buffalo , the Rover of the Plain ; he alone shall serve me . '
` What folly you talk ! '
cried the parents .
` Give you our buffalo , the Rover of the Plain ?
Why , you know that our life depends on him .
Here he is well fed and lies on soft grass ; but how can you tell what will befall him in another country ?
The food may be bad , he will die of hunger ; and , if he dies we die also . '
` No , no , ' said the bride ; ' I can look after him as well as you .
Get him ready , for the sun is sinking and it is time we set forth . '
So she went away and put together a small pot filled with healing herms , a horn that she used in tending sick people , a little knife , and a calabash containing deer fat ; and , hiding these about her , she took leave of her father and mother and started across the mountains by the side of her husband .
But the young man did not see the buffalo that followed them , which had left his home to be the servant of his wife .
No one ever knew how the news spread to the kraal that the young man was coming back , bringing a wife with him ; but , somehow or other , when the two entered the village , every man and woman was standing in the road uttering shouts of welcome .
` Ah , you are not dead after all , ' cried they ; ` and have found a wife to your liking , though you would have none of our girls .
Well , well , you have chosen your own path ; and if ill comes of it beware lest you grumble . '
Next day the husband took his wife to the fields and showed her which were his , and which belonged to his mother .
The girl listened carefully to all he told her , and walked with him back to the hut ; but close to the door she stopped , and said : ' I have dropped my necklace of beads in the field , and I must go and look for it . '
But in truth she had done nothing of the sort , and it was only an excuse to go and seek the buffalo .
The beast was crouching under a tree when she came up , and snorted with pleasure at the sight of her .
` You can roam about this field , and this , and this , ' she said , ` for they belong to my husband ; and that is his wood , where you may hide yourself .
But the other fields are his mother 's , so beware lest you touch them . ' '
I will beware , ' answered the buffalo ; and , patting his head , the girl left him .
Oh , how much better a servant he was than any of the little girls the bride had refused to bring with her !
If she wanted water , she had only to cross the patch of maize behind the hut and seek out the place where the buffalo lay hidden , and put down her pail beside him .
Then she would sit at her ease while he went to the lake and brought the bucket back brimming over .
If she wanted wood , he would break the branches off the trees and lay them at her feet .
And the villagers watched her return laden , and said to each other : ` Surely the girls of her country are stronger than our girls , for none of them could cut so quickly or carry so much ! '
But then , nobody knew that she had a buffalo for a servant .
Only , all this time she never gave the poor buffalo anything to eat , because she had just one dish , out of which she and her husband ate ; while in her old home there was a dish put aside expressly for the Rover of the Plain .
The buffalo bore it as long as he could ; but , one day , when his mistress bade him go to the lake and fetch water , his knees almost gave way from hunger .
He kept silence , however , till the evening , when he said to his mistress : ' I am nearly starved ; I have not touched food since I came here .
I can work no more . '
` Alas ! '
answered she , ` what can I do ?
I have only one dish in the house .
You will have to steal some beans from the fields .
Take a few here and a few there ; but be sure not to take too many from one place , or the owner may notice it . '
Now the buffalo had always lived an honest life , but if his mistress did not feed him , he must get food for himself .
So that night , when all the village was asleep , he came out from the wood and ate a few beans here and a few there , as his mistress had bidden him .
And when at last his hunger was satisfied , he crept back to his lair .
But a buffalo is not a fairy , and the next morning , when the women arrived to work in the fields , they stood still with astonishment , and said to each other : ` Just look at this ; a savage beast has been destroying our crops , and we can see the traces of his feet ! '
And they hurried to their homes to tell their tale .
In the evening the girl crept out to the buffalo 's hiding-place , and said to him : ` They perceived what happened , of course ; so to-night you had better seek your supper further off . '
And the buffalo nodded his head and followed her counsel ; but in the morning , when these women also went out to work , the races of hoofs were plainly to be seen , and they hastened to tell their husbands , and begged them to bring their guns , and to watch for the robber .
It happened that the stranger girl 's husband was the best marksman in all the village , and he hid himself behind the trunk of a tree and waited .
The buffalo , thinking that they would probably make a search for him in the fields he had laid waste the evening before , returned to the bean patch belonging to his mistress .
The young man saw him coming with amazement .
` Why , it is a buffalo ! '
cried he ; ' I never have beheld one in this country before ! '
And raising his gun , he aimed just behind the ear .
The buffalo gave a leap into the air , and then fell dead .
` It was a good shot , ' said the young man .
And he ran to the village to tell them that the thief was punished .
When he entered his hut he found his wife , who had somehow heard the news , twisting herself to and fro and shedding tears .
` Are you ill ? '
asked he .
And she answered : ` Yes ; I have pains all over my body . '
But she was not ill at all , only very unhappy at the death of the buffalo which had served her so well .
Her husband felt anxious , and sent for the medicine man ; but though she pretended to listen to him , she threw all his medicine out of the door directly he had gone away .
With the first rays of light the whole village was awake , and the women set forth armed with baskets and the men with knives in order to cut up the buffalo .
Only the girl remained in her hut ; and after a while she too went to join them , groaning and weeping as she walked along .
` What are you doing here ? '
asked her husband when he saw her .
` If you are ill you are better at home . '
` Oh !
I could not stay alone in the village , ' said she .
And her mother-in-law left off her work to come and scold her , and to tell her that she would kill herself if she did such foolish things .
But the girl would not listen and sat down and looked on .
When they had divided the buffalo 's flesh , and each woman had the family portion in her basket , the stranger wife got up and said : ` Let me have the head . '
` You could never carry anything so heavy , ' answered the men , ` and now you are ill besides . '
` You do not know how strong I am , ' answered she .
And at last they gave it her .
She did not walk to the village with the others , but lingered behind , and , instead of entering her hut , she slipped into the little shed where the pots for cooking and storing maize were kept .
Then she laid down the buffalo 's head and sat beside it .
Her husband came to seek her , and begged her to leave the shed and go to bed , as she must be tired out ; but the girl would not stir , neither would she attend to the words of her mother-in-law . '
I wish you would leave me alone ! '
she answered crossly .
` It is impossible to sleep if somebody is always coming in . '
And she turned her back on them , and would not even eat the food they had brought .
So they went away , and the young man soon stretched himself out on his mat ; but his wife 's odd conduct made him anxious , and he lay wake all night , listening .
When all was still the girl made a fire and boiled some water in a pot .
As soon as it was quite hot she shook in the medicine that she had brought from home , and then , taking the buffalo 's head , she made incisions with her little knife behind the ear , and close to the temple where the shot had struck him .
Next she applied the horn to the spot and blew with all her force till , at length , the blood began to move .
After that she spread some of the deer fat out of the calabash over the wound , which she held in the steam of the hot water .
Last of all , she sang in a low voice a dirge over the Rover of the Plain .
As she chanted the final words the head moved , and the limbs came back .
The buffalo began to feel alive again and shook his horns , and stood up and stretched himself .
Unluckily it was just at this moment that the husband said to himself : ' I wonder if she is crying still , and what is the matter with her !
Perhaps I had better go and see . '
And he got up and , calling her by name , went out to the shed .
` Go away !
I do n't want you ! '
she cried angrily .
But it was too late .
The buffalo had fallen to the ground , dead , and with the wound in his head as before .
The young man who , unlike most of his tribe , was afraid of his wife , returned to his bed without having seen anything , but wondering very much what she could be doing all this time .
After waiting a few minutes , she began her task over again , and at the end the buffalo stood on his feet as before .
But just as the girl was rejoicing that her work was completed , in came the husband once more to see what his wife was doing ; and this time he sat himself down in the hut , and said that he wished to watch whatever was going on .
Then the girl took up the pitcher and all her other things and left the shed , trying for the third time to bring the buffalo back to life .
She was too late ; the dawn was already breaking , and the head fell to the ground , dead and corrupt as it was before .
The girl entered the hut , where her husband and his mother were getting ready to go out . '
I want to go down to the lake , and bathe , ' said she .
` But you could never walk so far , ' answered they .
` You are so tired , as it is , that you can hardly stand ! '
However , in spite of their warnings , the girl left the hut in the direction of the lake .
Very soon she came back weeping , and sobbed out : ' I met some one in the village who lives in my country , and he told me that my mother is very , very ill , and if I do not go to her at once she will be dead before I arrive .
I will return as soon as I can , and now farewell . '
And she set forth in the direction of the mountains .
But this story was not true ; she knew nothing about her mother , only she wanted an excuse to go home and tell her family that their prophecies had come true , and that the buffalo was dead .
Balancing her basket on her head , she walked along , and directly she had left the village behind her she broke out into the song of the Rover of the Plain , and at last , at the end of the day , she came to the group of huts where her parents lived .
Her friends all ran to meet her , and , weeping , she told them that the buffalo was dead .
This sad news spread like lightning through the country , and the people flocked from far and near to bewail the loss of the beast who had been their pride .
` If you had only listened to us , ' they cried , ` he would be alive now .
But you refused all the little girls we offered you , and would have nothing but the buffalo .
And remember what the medicine-man said : `` If the buffalo dies you die also ! '' '
So they bewailed their fate , one to the other , and for a while they did not perceive that the girl 's husband was sitting in their midst , leaning his gun against a tree .
Then one man , turning , beheld him , and bowed mockingly .
` Hail , murderer !
hail !
you have slain us all ! '
The young man stared , not knowing what he meant , and answered , wonderingly : ' I shot a buffalo ; is that why you call me a murderer ? ' '
A buffalo -- yes ; but the servant of your wife !
It was he who carried the wood and drew the water .
Did you not know it ? '
` No ; I did not know it , ' replied the husband in surprise .
` Why did no one tell me ?
Of course I should not have shot him ! '
` Well , he is dead , ' answered they , ` and we must die too . '
At this the girl took a cup in which some poisonous herbs had been crushed , and holding it in her hands , she wailed : ' O my father , Rover of the Plain ! '
Then drinking a deep draught from it , fell back dead .
One by one her parents , her brothers and her sisters , drank also and died , singing a dirge to the memory of the buffalo .
The girl 's husband looked on with horror ; and returned sadly home across the mountains , and , entering his hut , threw himself on the ground .
At first he was too tired to speak ; but at length he raised his head and told all the story to his father and mother , who sat watching him .
When he had finished they shook their heads and said : ` Now you see that we spoke no idle words when we told you that ill would come of your marriage !
We offered you a good and hard-working wife , and you would have none of her .
And it is not only your wife you have lost , but your fortune also .
For who will give you back your money if they are all dead ? '
` It is true , O my father , ' answered the young man .
But in his heart he thought more of the loss of his wife than of the money he had given for her .
The White Doe -LSB- From L'Etude Ethnographique sur les Baronga , par Henri Junod . -RSB-
Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who loved each other dearly , and would have been perfectly happy if they had only had a little son or daughter to play with .
They never talked about it , and always pretended that there was nothing in the world to wish for ; but , sometimes when they looked at other people 's children , their faces grew sad , and their courtiers and attendants knew the reason why .
One day the queen was sitting alone by the side of a waterfall which sprung from some rocks in the large park adjoining the castle .
She was feeling more than usually miserable , and had sent away her ladies so that no one might witness her grief .
Suddenly she heard a rustling movement in the pool below the waterfall , and , on glancing up , she saw a large crab climbing on to a stone beside her .
` Great queen , ' said the crab , ' I am here to tell you that the desire of your heart will soon be granted .
But first you must permit me to lead you to the palace of the fairies , which , though hard by , has never been seen by mortal eyes because of the thick clouds that surround it .
When there you will know more ; that is , if you will trust yourself to me . '
The queen had never before heard an animal speak , and was struck dumb with surprise .
However , she was so enchanted at the words of the crab that she smiled sweetly and held out her hand ; it was taken , not by the crab , which had stood there only a moment before , but by a little old woman smartly dressed in white and crimson with green ribbons in her grey hair .
And , wonderful to say , not a drop of water fell from her clothes .
The old woman ran lightly down a path along which the queen had been a hundred times before , but it seemed so different she could hardly believe it was the same .
Instead of having to push her way through nettles and brambles , roses and jasmine hung about her head , while under her feet the ground was sweet with violets .
The orange trees were so tall and thick that , even at mid-day , the sun was never too hot , and at the end of the path was a glimmer of something so dazzling that the queen had to shade her eyes , and peep at it only between her fingers .
` What can it be ? '
she asked , turning to her guide ; who answered : ` Oh , that is the fairies ' palace , and here are some of them coming to meet us . '
As she spoke the gates swung back and six fairies approached , each bearing in her hand a flower made of precious stones , but so like a real one that it was only by touching you could tell the difference .
` Madam , ' they said , ` we know not how to thank you for this mark of your confidence , but have the happiness to tell you that in a short time you will have a little daughter . '
The queen was so enchanted at this news that she nearly fainted with joy ; but when she was able to speak , she poured out all her gratitude to the fairies for their promised gift .
` And now , ' she said , ' I ought not to stay any longer , for my husband will think that I have run away , or that some evil beast has devoured me . '
In a little while it happened just as the fairies had foretold , and a baby girl was born in the palace .
Of course both the king and queen were delighted , and the child was called Desiree , which means ` desired , ' for she had been ` desired ' for five years before her birth .
At first the queen could think of nothing but her new plaything , but then she remembered the fairies who had sent it to her .
Bidding her ladies bring her the posy of jewelled flowers which had been given her at the palace , she took each flower in her hand and called it by name , and , in turn , each fairy appeared before her .
But , as unluckily often happens , the one to whom she owed the most , the crab-fairy , was forgotten , and by this , as in the case of other babies you have read about , much mischief was wrought .
However , for the moment all was gaiety in the palace , and everybody inside ran to the windows to watch the fairies ' carriages , for no two were alike .
One had a car of ebony , drawn by white pigeons , another was lying back in her ivory chariot , driving ten black crows , while the rest had chosen rare woods or many-coloured sea-shells , with scarlet and blue macaws , long-tailed peacocks , or green love-birds for horses .
These carriages were only used on occasions of state , for when they went to war flying dragons , fiery serpents , lions or leopards , took the place of the beautiful birds .
The fairies entered the queen 's chamber followed by little dwarfs who carried their presents and looked much prouder than their mistresses .
One by one their burdens were spread upon the ground , and no one had ever seen such lovely things .
Everything that a baby could possibly wear or play with was there , and besides , they had other and more precious gifts to give her , which only children who have fairies for godmothers can ever hope to possess .
They were all gathered round the heap of pink cushions on which the baby lay asleep , when a shadow seemed to fall between them and the sun , while a cold wind blew through the room .
Everybody looked up , and there was the crab-fairy , who had grown as tall as the ceiling in her anger .
` So I am forgotten ! '
cried she , in a voice so loud that the queen trembled as she heard it .
` Who was it soothed you in your trouble ?
Who was it led you to the fairies ?
Who was it brought you back in safety to your home again ?
Yet I -- I -- am overlooked , while these who have done nothing in comparison , are petted and thanked . '
The queen , almost dumb with terror , in vain tried to think of some explanation or apology ; but there was none , and she could only confess her fault and implore forgiveness .
The fairies also did their best to soften the wrath of their sister , and knowing that , like many plain people who are not fairies , she was very vain , they entreated her to drop her crab 's disguise , and to become once more the charming person they were accustomed to see .
For some time the enraged fairy would listen to nothing ; but at length the flatteries began to take effect .
The crab 's shell fell from her , she shrank into her usual size , and lost some of her fierce expression .
` Well , ' she said , ' I will not cause the princess 's death , as I had meant to do , but at the same time she will have to bear the punishment of her mother 's fault , as many other children have done before her .
The sentence I pass upon her is , that if she is allowed to see one ray of daylight before her fifteenth birthday she will rue it bitterly , and it may perhaps cost her her life . '
And with these words she vanished by the window through which she came , while the fairies comforted the weeping queen and took counsel how best the princess might be kept safe during her childhood .
At the end of half an hour they had made up their minds what to do , and at the command of the fairies , a beautiful palace sprang up , close to that of the king and queen , but different from every palace in the world in having no windows , and only a door right under the earth .
However , once within , daylight was hardly missed , so brilliant were the multitudes of tapers that were burning on the walls .
Now up to this time the princess 's history has been like the history of many a princess that you have read about ; but , when the period of her imprisonment was nearly over , her fortunes took another turn .
For almost fifteen years the fairies had taken care of her , and amused her and taught her , so that when she came into the world she might be no whit behind the daughters of other kings in all that makes a princess charming and accomplished .
They all loved her dearly , but the fairy Tulip loved her most of all ; and as the princess 's fifteenth birthday drew near , the fairy began to tremble lest something terrible should happen -- some accident which had not been foreseen .
` Do not let her out of your sight , ' said Tulip to the queen , ` and meanwhile , let her portrait be painted and carried to the neighbouring Courts , as is the custom in order that the kings may see how far her beauty exceeds that of every other princess , and that they may demand her in marriage for their sons . '
And so it was done ; and as the fairy had prophesied , all the young princes fell in love with the picture ; but the last one to whom it was shown could think of nothing else , and refused to let it be removed from his chamber , where he spent whole days gazing at it .
The king his father was much surprised at the change which had come over his son , who generally passed all his time in hunting or hawking , and his anxiety was increased by a conversation he overheard between two of his courtiers that they feared the prince must be going out of his mind , so moody had he become .
Without losing a moment the king went to visit his son , and no sooner had he entered the room than the young man flung himself at his father 's feet .
` You have betrothed me already to a bride I can never love ! '
cried he ; ` but if you will not consent to break off the match , and ask for the hand of the princess Desiree , I shall die of misery , thankful to be alive no longer . '
These words much displeased the king , who felt that , in breaking off the marriage already arranged he would almost certainly be bringing on his subjects a long and bloody war ; so , without answering , he turned away , hoping that a few days might bring his son to reason .
But the prince 's condition grew rapidly so much worse that the king , in despair , promised to send an embassy at once to Desiree 's father .
This news cured the young man in an instant of all his ills ; and he began to plan out every detail of dress and of horses and carriages which were necessary to make the train of the envoy , whose name was Becasigue , as splendid as possible .
He longed to form part of the embassy himself , if only in the disguise of a page ; but this the king would not allow , and so the prince had to content himself with searching the kingdom for everything that was rare and beautiful to send to the princess .
Indeed , he arrived , just as the embassy was starting , with his portrait , which had been painted in secret by the court painter .
The king and queen wished for nothing better than that their daughter marry into such a great and powerful family , and received the ambassador with every sign of welcome .
They even wished him to see the princess Desiree , but this was prevented by the fairy Tulip , who feared some ill might come of it .
` And be sure you tell him , ' added she , ` that the marriage can not be celebrated till she is fifteen years old , or else some terrible misfortune will happen to the child . '
So when Becasigue , surround by his train , made a formal request that the princess Desiree might be given in marriage to his master 's son , the king replied that he was much honoured , and would gladly give his consent ; but that no one could even see the princess till her fifteenth birthday , as the spell laid upon her in her cradle by a spiteful fairy , would not cease to work till that was past .
The ambassador was greatly surprised and disappointed , but he knew too much about fairies to venture to disobey them , therefore he had to content himself with presenting the prince 's portrait to the queen , who lost no time in carrying it to the princess .
As the girl took it in her hands it suddenly spoke , as it had been taught to do , and uttered a compliment of the most delicate and charming sort , which made the princess flush with pleasure .
` How would you like to have a husband like that ? '
asked the queen , laughing .
` As if I knew anything about husbands ! '
replied Desiree , who had long ago guessed the business of the ambassador .
` Well , he will be your husband in three months , ' answered the queen , ordering the prince 's presents to be brought in .
The princess was very pleased with them , and admired them greatly , but the queen noticed that all the while her eyes constantly strayed from the softest silks and most brilliant jewels to the portrait of the prince .
The ambassador , finding that there was no hope of his being allowed to see the princess , took his leave , and returned to his own court ; but here a new difficulty appeared .
The prince , though transported with joy at the thought that Desiree was indeed to be his bride , was bitterly disappointed that she had not been allowed to return with Becasigue , as he had foolishly expected ; and never having been taught to deny himself anything or to control his feelings , he fell as ill as he had done before .
He would eat nothing nor take pleasure in anything , but lay all day on a heap of cushions , gazing at the picture of the princess .
` If I have to wait three months before I can marry the princess I shall die ! '
was all this spoilt boy would say ; and at length the king , in despair , resolved to send a fresh embassy to Desiree 's father to implore him to permit the marriage to be celebrated at once . '
I would have presented my prayer in person , he added in his letter , ` but my great age and infirmities do not suffer me to travel ; however my envoy has orders to agree to any arrangement that you may propose . '
On his arrival at the palace Becasigue pleaded his young master 's cause as fervently as the king his father could have done , and entreated that the princess might be consulted in the matter .
The queen hastened to the marble tower , and told her daughter of the sad state of the prince .
Des the prince without risking the doom pronounced over her by the wicked fairy . '
I see ! '
she exclaimed joyfully at last .
` Let a carriage be built through which no light can come , and let it be brought into my room .
I will then get into it , and we can travel swiftly during the night and arrive before dawn at the palace of the prince .
Once there , I can remain in some underground chamber , where no light can come . '
` Ah , how clever you are , ' cried the queen , clasping her in her arms .
And she hurried away to tell the king .
` What a wife our prince will have ! '
said Becasigue bowing low ; ` but I must hasten back with the tidings , and to prepare the underground chamber for the princess . '
And so he took his leave .
In a few days the carriage commanded by the princess was ready .
It was of green velvet , scattered over with large golden thistles , and lined inside with silver brocade embroidered with pink roses .
It had no windows , of course ; but the fairy Tulip , whose counsel had been asked , had managed to light it up with a soft glow that came no one knew whither .
It was carried straight up into the great hall of the tower , and the princess stepped into it , followed by her faithful maid of honour , Eglantine , and by her lady in waiting Cerisette , who also had fallen in love with the prince 's portrait and was bitterly jealous of her mistress .
The fourth place in the carriage was filled by Cerisette 's mother , who had been sent by the queen to look after the three young people .
Now the Fairy of the Fountain was the godmother of the princess Nera , to whom the prince had been betrothed before the picture of Desiree had made him faithless .
She was very angry at the slight put upon her godchild , and from that moment kept careful watch on the princess .
In this journey she saw her chance , and it was she who , invisible , sat by Cerisette , and put bad thoughts into the minds of both her and her mother .
The way to the city where the prince lived ran for the most part through a thick forest , and every night when there was no moon , and not a single star could be seen through the trees , the guards who travelled with the princess opened the carriage to give it an airing .
This went on for several days , till only twelve hours journey lay between them and the palace .
The Cerisette persuaded her mother to cut a great hole in the side of the carriage with a sharp knife which she herself had brought for the purpose .
In the forest the darkness was so intense that no one perceived what she had done , but when they left the last trees behind them , and emerged into the open country , the sun was up , and for the first time since her babyhood , Desiree found herself in the light of day .
She looked up in surprise at the dazzling brilliance that streamed through the hole ; then gave a sigh which seemed to come from her heart .
The carriage door swung back , as if by magic , and a white doe sprang out , and in a moment was lost to sight in the forest .
But , quick as she was , Eglantine , her maid of honour , had time to see where she went , and jumped from the carriage in pursuit of her , followed at a distance by the guards .
Cerisette and her mother looked at each other in surprise and joy .
They could hardly believe in their good fortune , for everything had happened exactly as they wished .
The first thing to be done was to conceal the hole which had been cut , and when this was managed -LRB- with the help of the angry fairy , though they did not know it -RRB- , Cerisette hastened to take off her own clothes , and put on those of the princess , placing the crown of diamonds on her head .
She found this heavier than she expected ; but then , she had never been accustomed to wear crowns , which makes all the difference .
At the gates of the city the carriage was stopped by a guard of honour sent by the king as an escort to his son 's bride .
Though Cerisette and her mother could of course see nothing of what was going on outside , they heard plainly the shouts of welcome from the crowds along the streets .
The carriage stopped at length in the vast hall which Becasigue had prepared for the reception of the princess .
The grand chamberlain and the lord high steward were awaiting her , and when the false bride stepped into the brilliantly lighted room , they bowed low , and said they had orders to inform his highness the moment she arrived .
The prince , whom the strict etiquette of the court had prevented from being present in the underground hall , was burning with impatience in his own apartments .
` So she had come ! '
cried he , throwing down the bow he had been pretending to mend .
` Well , was I not right ?
Is she not a miracle of beauty and grace ?
And has she her equal in the whole world ? '
The ministers looked at each other , and made no reply ; till at length the chamberlain , who was the bolder of the two , observed : ` My lord , as to her beauty , you can judge of that for yourself .
No doubt it is as great as you say ; but at present it seems to have suffered , as is natural , from the fatigues of the journey . '
This was certainly not what the prince had expected to hear .
Could the portrait have flattered her ?
He had known of such things before , and a cold shiver ran through him ; but with an effort he kept silent from further questioning , and only said : ` Has the king been told that the princess is in the palace ? '
` Yes , highness ; and he has probably already joined her . '
` Then I will go too , ' said the prince .
Weak as he was from his long illness , the prince descended the staircase , supported by the ministers , and entered the room just in time to hear his father 's loud cry of astonishment and disgust at the sight of Cerisette .
` There was been treachery at work , ' he exclaimed , while the prince leant , dumb with horror , against the doorpost .
But the lady in waiting , who had been prepared for something of the sort , advanced , holding in her hand the letters which the king and queen had entrusted to her .
` This is the princess Desiree , ' said she , pretending to have heard nothing , ` and I have the honour to present to you these letters from my liege lord and lady , together with the casket containing the princess ' jewels . '
The king did not move or answer her ; so the prince , leaning on the arm of Becasigue , approached a little closer to the false princess , hoping against hope that his eyes had deceived him .
But the longer he looked the more he agreed with his father that there was treason somewhere , for in no single respect did the portrait resemble the woman before him .
Cerisette was so tall that the dress of the princess did not reach her ankles , and so thin that her bones showed through the stuff .
Besides that her nose was hooked , and her teeth black and ugly .
In his turn , the prince stood rooted to the spot .
At last he spoke , and his words were addressed to his father , and not to the bride who had come so far to marry him .
` We have been deceived , ' he said , ` and it will cost me my life . '
And he leaned so heavily on the envoy that Becasigue feared he was going to faint , and hastily laid him on the floor .
For some minutes no one could attend to anybody but the prince ; but as soon as he revived the lady in waiting made herself heard .
` Oh , my lovely princess , why did we ever leave home ? '
cried she .
` But the king your father will avenge the insults that have been heaped on you when we tell him how you have been treated . ' '
I will tell him myself , ' replied the king in wrath ; ` he promised me a wonder of beauty , he has sent me a skeleton !
I am not surprised that he has kept her for fifteen years hidden away from the eyes of the world .
Take them both away , ' he continued , turning to his guards , ` and lodge them in the state prison .
There is something more I have to learn of this matter . '
His orders were obeyed , and the prince , loudly bewailing his sad fate , was led back to bed , where for many days he lay in a high fever .
At length he slowly began to gain strength , but his sorrow was still so great that he could not bear the sight of a strange face , and shuddered at the notion of taking his proper part in the court ceremonies .
Unknown to the king , or to anybody but Becasigue , he planned that , as soon as he was able , he would make his escape and pass the rest of his life alone in some solitary place .
It was some weeks before he had regained his health sufficiently to carry out his design ; but finally , one beautiful starlight night , the two friends stole away , and when the king woke next morning he found a letter lying by his bed , saying that his son had gone , he knew not whither .
He wept bitter tears at the news , for he loved the prince dearly ; but he felt that perhaps the young man had done wisely , and he trusted to time and Becasigue 's influence to bring the wanderer home .
And while these things were happening , what had become of the white doe ?
Though when she sprang from the carriage she was aware that some unkind fate had changed her into an animal , yet , till she saw herself in a stream , she had no idea what it was .
` Is it really , I , Desiree ? '
she said to herself , weeping .
` What wicked fairy can have treated me so ; and shall I never , never take my own shape again ?
My only comfort that , in this great forest , full of lions and serpents , my life will be a short one . '
Now the fairy Tulip was as much grieved at the sad fate of the princess as Desiree 's own mother could have been if she had known of it .
Still , she could not help feeling that if the king and queen had listened to her advice the girl would by this time be safely in the walls of her new home .
However , she loved Desiree too much to let her suffer more than could be helped , and it was she who guided Eglantine to the place where the white doe was standing , cropping the grass which was her dinner .
At the sound of footsteps the pretty creature lifted her head , and when she saw her faithful companion approaching she bounded towards her , and rubbed her head on Eglantine 's shoulder .
The maid of honour was surprised ; but she was fond of animals , and stroked the white doe tenderly , speaking gently to her all the while .
Suddenly the beautiful creature lifted her head , and looked up into Eglantine 's face , with tears streaming from her eyes .
A thought flashed through her mind , and quick as lightning the girl flung herself on her knees , and lifting the animal 's feet kissed them one by one .
` My princess !
O my dear princess ! '
cried she ; and again the white doe rubbed her head against her , for thought the spiteful fairy had taken away her power of speech , she had not deprived her of her reason !
All day long the two remained together , and when Eglantine grew hungry she was led by the white doe to a part of the forest where pears and peaches grew in abundance ; but , as night came on , the maid of honour was filled with the terrors of wild beasts which had beset the princess during her first night in the forest .
` Is there no hut or cave we could go into ? '
asked she .
But the doe only shook her head ; and the two sat down and wept with fright .
The fairy Tulip , who , in spite of her anger , was very soft-hearted , was touched at their distress , and flew quickly to their help . '
I can not take away the spell altogether , ' she said , ` for the Fairy of the Fountain is stronger than I ; but I can shorten the time of your punishment , and am able to make it less hard , for as soon as darkness fall you shall resume your own shape . '
To think that by-and-by she would cease to be a white doe -- indeed , that she would at once cease to be one during the night -- was for the present joy enough for Desiree , and she skipped about on the grass in the prettiest manner .
` Go straight down the path in front of you , ' continued the fairy , smiling as she watched her ; ` go straight down the path and you will soon reach a little hut where you will find shelter . '
And with these words she vanished , leaving her hearers happier than they ever thought they could be again .
An old woman was standing at the door of the hut when Eglantine drew near , with the white doe trotting by her side .
` Good evening ! '
she said ; ` could you give me a night 's lodging for myself and my doe ? '
` Certainly I can , ' replied the old woman .
And she led them into a room with two little white beds , so clean and comfortable that it made you sleepy even to look at them .
The door had hardly closed behind the old woman when the sun sank below the horizon , and Desiree became a girl again .
` Oh , Eglantine !
what should I have done if you had not followed me , ' she cried .
And she flung herself into her friend 's arms in a transport of delight .
Early in the morning Eglantine was awakened by the sound of someone scratching at the door , and on opening her eyes she saw the white doe struggling to get out .
The little creature looked up and into her face , and nodded her head as the maid of honour unfastened the latch , but bounded away into the woods , and was lost to sight in a moment .
Meanwhile , the prince and Becasigue were wandering through the wood , till at last the prince grew so tired , that he lay down under a tree , and told Becasigue that he had better go in search of food , and of some place where they could sleep .
Becasigue had not gone very far , when a turn of the path brought him face to face with the old woman who was feeding her doves before her cottage .
` Could you give me some milk and fruit ? '
asked he . '
I am very hungry myself , and , besides , I have left a friend behind me who is still weak from illness . '
` Certainly I can , ' answered the old woman .
` But come and sit down in my kitchen while I catch the goat and milk it . '
Becasigue was glad enough to do as he was bid , and in a few minutes the old woman returned with a basket brimming over with oranges and grapes .
` If your friend has been ill he should not pass the night in the forest , ' said she . '
I have room in my hut -- tiny enough , it is true ; but better than nothing , and to that you are both heartily welcome . '
Becasigue thanked her warmly , and as by this time it was almost sunset , he set out to fetch the prince .
It was while he was absent that Eglantine and the white doe entered the hut , and having , of course , no idea that in the very next room was the man whose childish impatience had been the cause of all their troubles .
In spite of his fatigue , the prince slept badly , and directly it was light he rose , and bidding Becasigue remain where he was , as he wished to be alone , he strolled out into the forest .
He walked on slowly , just as his fancy led him , till , suddenly , he came to a wide open space , and in the middle was the white doe quietly eating her breakfast .
She bounded off at the sight of a man , but not before the prince , who had fastened on his bow without thinking , had let fly several arrows , which the fairy Tulip took care should do her no harm .
But , quickly as she ran , she soon felt her strength failing her , for fifteen years of life in a tower had not taught her how to exercise her limbs .
Luckily , the prince was too weak to follow her far , and a turn of a path brought her close to the hut , where Eglantine was awaiting her .
Panting for breath , she entered their room , and flung herself down on the floor .
When it was dark again , and she was once more the princess Desiree , she told Eglantine what had befallen her . '
I feared the Fairy of the Fountain , and the cruel beasts , ' said she ; ` but somehow I never thought of the dangers that I ran from men .
I do not know now what saved me . '
` You must stay quietly here till the time of your punishment is over , ' answered Eglantine .
But when the morning dawned , and the girl turned into a doe , the longing for the forest came over her , and she sprang away as before .
As soon as the prince was awake he hastened to the place where , only the day before , he had found the white doe feeding ; but of course she had taken care to go in the opposite direction .
Much disappointed , he tried first one green path and then another , and at last , wearied with walking , he threw himself down and went fast asleep .
Just at this moment the white doe sprang out of a thicket near by , and started back trembling when she beheld her enemy lying there .
Yet , instead of turning to fly , something bade her go and look at him unseen .
As she gazed a thrill ran through her , for she felt that , worn and wasted though he was by illness , it was the face of her destined husband .
Gently stooping over him she kissed his forehead , and at her touch he awoke .
For a minute they looked at each other , and to his amazement he recognized the white doe which had escaped him the previous day .
But in an instant the animal was aroused to a sense of her danger , and she fled with all her strength into the thickest part of the forest .
Quick as lightning the prince was on her track , but this time it was with no wish to kill or even wound the beautiful creature .
` Pretty doe !
pretty doe !
stop !
I wo n't hurt you , ' cried he , but his words were carried away by the wind .
At length the doe could run no more , and when the prince reached her , she was lying stretched out on the grass , waiting for her death blow .
But instead the prince knelt at her side , and stroked her , and bade her fear nothing , as he would take care of her .
So he fetched a little water from the stream in his horn hunting cup , then , cutting some branches from the trees , he twisted them into a litter which he covered with moss , and laid the white doe gently on it .
For a long time they remained thus , but when Desiree saw by the way that the light struck the trees , that he sun must be near its setting , she was filled with alarm lest the darkness should fall , and the prince should behold her in her human shape .
` No , he must not see me for the first time here , ' she thought , and instantly began to plan how to get rid of him .
Then she opened her mouth and let her tongue hang out , as if she were dying of thirst , and the prince , as she expected , hastened to the stream to get her some more water .
When he returned , the white doe was gone .
That night Desiree confessed to Eglantine that her pursuer was no other than the prince , and that far from flattering him , the portrait had never done him justice .
` Is it not hard to meet him in this shape , ' wept she , ` when we both love each other so much ? '
But Eglantine comforted her , and reminded her that in a short time all would be well .
The prince was very angry at the flight of the white doe , for whom he had taken so much trouble , and returning to the cottage he poured out his adventures and his wrath to Becasigue , who could not help smiling .
` She shall not escape me again , ' cried the prince .
` If I hunt her every day for a year , I will have her at last . '
And in this frame of mind he went to bed .
When the white doe entered the forest next morning , she had not made up her mind whether she would go and meet the prince , or whether she would shun him , and hide in thickets of which he knew nothing .
She decided that the last plan was the best ; and so it would have been if the prince had not taken the very same direction in search of her .
Quite by accident he caught sight of her white skin shining through the bushes , and at the same instant she heard a twig snap under his feet .
In a moment she was up and away , but the prince , not knowing how else to capture her , aimed an arrow at her leg , which brought her to the ground .
The young man felt like a murderer as he ran hastily up to where the white doe lay , and did his best to soothe the pain she felt , which , in reality , was the last part of the punishment sent by the Fairy of the Fountain .
First he brought her some water , and then he fetched some healing herbs , and having crushed them in his hand , laid them on the wound .
` Ah !
what a wretch I was to have hurt you , ' cried he , resting her head upon his knees ; ` and now you will hate me and fly from me for ever ! '
For some time the doe lay quietly where she was , but , as before , she remembered that the hour of her transformation was near .
She struggled to her feet , but the prince would not hear of her walking , and thinking the old woman might be able to dress her wound better than he could , he took her in his arms to carry her back to the hut .
But , small as she was , she made herself so heavy that , after staggering a few steps under her weight , he laid her down , and tied her fast to a tree with some of the ribbons of his hat .
This done he went away to get help .
Meanwhile Eglantine had grown very uneasy at the long absence of her mistress , and had come out to look for her .
Just as the prince passed out of sight the fluttering ribbons dance before her eyes , and she descried her beautiful princess bound to a tree .
With all her might she worked at the knots , but not a single one could she undo , though all appeared so easy .
She was still busy with them when a voice behind her said : ` Pardon me , fair lady , but it is MY doe you are trying to steal ! '
` Excuse me , good knight ' answered Eglantine , hardly glancing at him , ` but it is MY doe that is tied up here !
And if you wish for a proof of it , you can see if she knows me or not .
Touch my heart , my little one , ' she continued , dropping on her knees .
And the doe lifted up its fore-foot and laid it on her side .
` Now put your arms round my neck , and sigh . '
And again the doe did as she was bid .
` You are right , ' said the prince ; ` but it is with sorrow I give her up to you , for though I have wounded her yet I love her deeply . '
To this Eglantine answered nothing ; but carefully raising up the doe , she led her slowly to the hut .
Now both the prince and Becasigue were quite unaware that the old woman had any guests besides themselves , and , following afar , were much surprised to behold Eglantine and her charge enter the cottage .
They lost no time in questioning the old woman , who replied that she knew nothing about the lady and her white doe , who slept next the chamber occupied by the prince and his friend , but that they were very quiet , and paid her well .
Then she went back to her kitchen .
` Do you know , ' said Becasigue , when they were alone , ' I am certain that the lady we saw is the maid of honour to the Princess Desiree , whom I met at the palace .
And , as her room is next to this , it will be easy to make a small hole through which I can satisfy myself whether I am right or not . '
So , taking a knife out of his pocket , he began to saw away the woodwork .
The girls heard the grating noise , but fancying it was a mouse , paid no attention , and Becasigue was left in peace to pursue his work .
At length the hole was large enough for him to peep through , and the sight was one to strike him dumb with amazement .
He had guessed truly : the tall lady was Eglantine herself ; but the other -- where had he seen her ?
Ah !
now he knew -- it was the lady of the portrait !
Desiree , in a flowing dress of green silk , was lying stretched out upon cushions , and as Eglantine bent over her to bathe the wounded leg , she began to talk : ` Oh !
let me die , ' cried she , ` rather than go on leading this life .
You can not tell the misery of being a beast all the day , and unable to speak to the man I love , to whose impatience I owe my cruel fate .
Yet , even so , I can not bring myself to hate him . '
These words , low though they were spoken , reached Becasigue , who could hardly believe his ears .
He stood silent for a moment ; then , crossing to the window out of which the prince was gazing , he took his arm and led him across the room .
