I got every one myself , and they are extra whackers , '' said Mac , presenting a bushel or so .
`` You should have seen Giglamps when he was after them .
He pitched out of the tree , and would have broken his blessed old neck if Arch had not caught him , '' observed Steve , as he lounged gracefully in the window seat .
`` You need n't talk , Dandy , when you did n't know a chestnut from a beech , and kept on thrashing till I told you of it , '' retorted Mac , festooning himself over the back of the sofa , being a privileged boy .
`` I do n't make mistakes when I thrash you , old Worm , so you 'd better mind what you are about , '' answered Steve , without a ray of proper respect for his elder brother .
`` It is getting dark , and I must go , or mamma will be alarmed , '' said Ariadne , rising in sudden haste , though she hoped to be asked to remain to the nut-party .
No one invited her ; and all the while she was putting on her things and chatting to Rose the boys were telegraphing to one another the sad fact that someone ought to escort the young lady home .
Not a boy felt heroic enough to cast himself into the breach , however ; even polite Archie shirked the duty , saying to Charlie , as they quietly slipped into an adjoining room , `` I 'm not going to do all the gallivanting .
Let Steve take that chit home and show his manners . ''
`` I 'll be hanged if I do ! ''
answered Prince , who disliked Miss Blish because she tried to be coquettish with him .
`` Then I will , '' and , to the dismay of both recreant lads , Dr. Alec walked out of the room to offer his services to the `` chit . ''
He was too late , however , for Mac , obeying a look from Rose , had already made a victim of himself , and trudged meekly away , wishing the gentle Ariadne at the bottom of the Red Sea .
`` Then I will take this lady down to tea , as the other one has found a gentleman to go home with her .
I see the lamps are lighted below , and I smell a smell which tells me that auntie has something extra nice for us to-night . ''
As he spoke , Dr. Alec was preparing to carry Rose downstairs as usual ; but Archie and Prince rushed forward , begging with penitent eagerness for the honour of carrying her in an arm-chair .
Rose consented , fearing that her uncle 's keen eye would discover the fatal bits of silk ; so the boys crossed hands , and , taking a good grip of each curly pate , she was borne down in state , while the others followed by way of the banisters .
Tea was ordered earlier than usual , so that Jamie and his dolly could have a taste , at least , of the holiday fun , for they were to stay till seven , and be allowed twelve roasted chestnuts apiece , which they were under bonds not to eat till next day .
Tea was despatched rapidly , therefore , and the party gathered round the wide hearth in the dining-room , where the nuts were soon dancing gaily on hot shovels or bouncing out among the company , thereby causing delightful panics among the little ones .
`` Come , Rosy , tell us a story while we work , for you ca n't help much , and must amuse us as your share , '' proposed Mac , who sat in the shade pricking nuts , and who knew by experience what a capital little Scheherazade his cousin was .
`` Yes , we poor monkeys ca n't burn our paws for nothing , so tell away , Pussy , '' added Charlie , as he threw several hot nuts into her lap and shook his fingers afterwards .
`` Well , I happen to have a little story with a moral to it in my mind , and I will tell it , though it is intended for younger children than you , '' answered Rose , who was rather fond of telling instructive tales .
`` Fire away , '' said Geordie , and she obeyed , little thinking what a disastrous story it would prove to herself .
`` Well , once upon a time , a little girl went to see a young lady who was very fond of her .
Now , the young lady happened to be lame , and had to have her foot bandaged up every day ; so she kept a basketful of bandages , all nicely rolled and ready .
The little girl liked to play with this basket , and one day , when she thought no one saw her , she took one of the rolls without asking leave , and put it in her pocket . ''
Here Pokey , who had been peering lovingly down at the five warm nuts that lay at the bottom of her tiny pocket , suddenly looked up and said , `` Oh ! ''
in a startled tone , as if the moral tale had become intensely interesting all at once .
Rose heard and saw the innocent betrayal of the small sinner , and went on in a most impressive manner , while the boys nudged one another and winked as they caught the joke .
`` But an eye did see this naughty little girl , and whose eye do you think it was ? ''
`` Eye of Dod , '' murmured conscience-stricken Pokey , spreading two chubby little hands before the round face , which they were not half big enough to hide .
Rose was rather taken aback by this reply , but , feeling that she was producing a good effect , she added seriously , `` Yes , God saw her , and so did the young lady , but she did not say anything ; she waited to see what the little girl would do about it .
She had been very happy before she took the bandage , but when it was in her pocket she seemed troubled , and pretty soon stopped playing , and sat down in a corner looking very sober .
She thought a few minutes , and then went and put back the roll very softly , and her face cleared up , and she was a happy child again .
The young lady was glad to see that , and wondered what made the little girl put it back . ''
`` Tonscience p ` icked her , '' murmured a contrite voice from behind the small hands pressed tightly over Pokey 's red face .
`` And why did she take it , do you suppose ? ''
asked Rose , in a school-marmish tone , feeling that all the listeners were interested in her tale and its unexpected application .
`` It was so nice and wound , and she wanted it deffly , '' answered the little voice .
`` Well , I 'm glad she had such a good conscience .
The moral is that people who steal do n't enjoy what they take , and are not happy till they put it back .
What makes that little girl hide her face ? ''
asked Rose , as she concluded .
`` Me 's so ` shamed of Pokey , '' sobbed the small culprit , quite overcome by remorse and confusion at this awful disclosure .
`` Come , Rose , it 's too bad to tell her little tricks before everyone , and preach at her in that way ; you would n't like it yourself , '' began Dr. Alec , taking the weeper on his knee and administering consolation in the shape of kisses and nuts .
Before Rose could express her regret , Jamie , who had been reddening and ruffling like a little turkey-cock for several minutes , burst out indignantly , bent on avenging the wound given to his beloved dolly .
`` I know something bad that you did , and I 'm going to tell right out .
You thought we did n't see you , but we did , and you said uncle would n't like it , and the boys would tease , and you made Ariadne promise not to tell , and she punched holes in your ears to put ear-rings in .
So now !
and that 's much badder than to take an old piece of rag ; and I hate you for making my Pokey cry . ''
Jamie 's somewhat incoherent explosion produced such an effect that Pokey 's small sin was instantly forgotten , and Rose felt that her hour had come .
`` What !
what !
what ! ''
cried the boys in a chorus , dropping their shovels and knives to gather round Rose , for a guilty clutching at her ears betrayed her , and with a feeble cry of `` Ariadne made me ! ''
she hid her head among the pillows like an absurd little ostrich .
`` Now she 'll go prancing round with bird cages and baskets and carts and pigs , for all I know , in her ears , as the other girls do , and wo n't she look like a goose ? ''
asked one tormentor , tweaking a curl that strayed out from the cushions .
`` I did n't think she 'd be so silly , '' said Mac , in a tone of disappointment that told Rose she had sunk in the esteem of her wise cousin .
`` That Blish girl is a nuisance , and ought not to be allowed to come here with her nonsensical notions , '' said the Prince , feeling a strong desire to shake that young person as an angry dog might shake a mischievous kitten .
`` How do you like it , uncle ? ''
asked Archie , who , being the head of a family himself , believed in preserving discipline at all costs .
`` I am very much surprised ; but I see she is a girl , after all , and must have her vanities like all the rest of them , '' answered Dr. Alec , with a sigh , as if he had expected to find Rose a sort of angel , above all earthly temptations .
`` What shall you do about it , sir ? ''
inquired Geordie , wondering what punishment would be inflicted on a feminine culprit .
`` As she is fond of ornaments , perhaps we had better give her a nose-ring also .
I have one somewhere that a Fiji belle once wore ; I 'll look it up , '' and , leaving Pokey to Jamie 's care , Dr. Alec rose as if to carry out his suggestion in earnest .
`` Good !
good !
We 'll do it right away !
Here 's a gimlet , so you hold her , boys , while I get her dear little nose all ready , '' cried Charlie , whisking away the pillow as the other boys danced about the sofa in true Fiji style .
It was a dreadful moment , for Rose could not run away she could only grasp her precious nose with one hand and extend the other , crying distractedly , `` O uncle , save me , save me ! ''
Of course he saved her ; and when she was securely barricaded by his strong arm , she confessed her folly in such humiliation of spirit , that the lads , after a good laugh at her , decided to forgive her and lay all the blame on the tempter , Ariadne .
Even Dr. Alec relented so far as to propose two gold rings for the ears instead of one copper one for the nose ; a proceeding which proved that if Rose had all the weakness of her sex for jewellery , he had all the inconsistency of his in giving a pretty penitent exactly what she wanted , spite of his better judgment .
Chapter 16 -- Bread and Button-Holes `` What in the world is my girl thinking about all alone here , with such a solemn face ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , coming into the study , one November day , to find Rose sitting there with folded hands and a very thoughtful aspect .
`` Uncle , I want to have some serious conversation with you , if you have time , '' she said , coming out of a brown study , as if she had not heard his question .
`` I 'm entirely at your service , and most happy to listen , '' he answered , in his politest manner , for when Rose put on her womanly little airs he always treated her with a playful sort of respect that pleased her very much .
Now , as he sat down beside her , she said , very soberly , `` I 've been trying to decide what trade I would learn , and I want you to advise me . ''
`` Trade , my dear ? ''
and Dr. Alec looked so astonished that she hastened to explain .
`` I forgot that you did n't hear the talk about it up at Cosey Corner .
You see we used to sit under the pines and sew , and talk a great deal all the ladies , I mean and I liked it very much .
Mother Atkinson thought that everyone should have a trade , or something to make a living out of , for rich people may grow poor , you know , and poor people have to work .
Her girls were very clever , and could do ever so many things , and Aunt Jessie thought the old lady was right ; so when I saw how happy and independent those young ladies were , I wanted to have a trade , and then it would n't matter about money , though I like to have it well enough . ''
Dr. Alec listened to this explanation with a curious mixture of surprise , pleasure , and amusement in his face , and looked at his little niece as if she had suddenly changed into a young woman .
She had grown a good deal in the last six months , and an amount of thinking had gone on in that young head which would have astonished him greatly could he have known it all , for Rose was one of the children who observe and meditate much , and now and then nonplus their friends by a wise or curious remark .
`` I quite agree with the ladies , and shall be glad to help you decide on something if I can , '' said the Doctor seriously .
`` What do you incline to ?
A natural taste or talent is a great help in choosing , you know . ''
`` I have n't any talent , or any especial taste that I can see , and that is why I ca n't decide , uncle .
So , I think it would be a good plan to pick out some very useful business and learn it , because I do n't do it for pleasure , you see , but as a part of my education , and to be ready in case I 'm ever poor , '' answered Rose , looking as if she rather longed for a little poverty so that her useful gift might be exercised .
`` Well , now , there is one very excellent , necessary , and womanly accomplishment that no girl should be without , for it is a help to rich and poor , and the comfort of families depends upon it .
This fine talent is neglected nowadays , and considered old-fashioned , which is a sad mistake , and one that I do n't mean to make in bringing up my girl .
It should be a part of every girl 's education , and I know of a most accomplished lady who will teach you in the best and pleasantest manner . ''
`` Oh , what is it ? ''
cried Rose eagerly , charmed to be met in this helpful and cordial way .
`` Housekeeping ! ''
answered Dr. Alec .
`` Is that an accomplishment ? ''
asked Rose , while her face fell , for she had indulged in all sorts of vague , delightful dreams .
`` Yes ; it is one of the most beautiful as well as useful of all the arts a woman can learn .
Not so romantic , perhaps , as singing , painting , writing , or teaching , even ; but one that makes many happy and comfortable , and home the sweetest place in the world .
Yes , you may open your big eyes ; but it is a fact that I had rather see you a good housekeeper than the greatest belle in the city .
It need not interfere with any talent you may possess , but it is a necessary part of your training , and I hope that you will set about it at once , now that you are well and strong . ''
`` Who is the lady ? ''
asked Rose , rather impressed by her uncle 's earnest speech .
`` Aunt Plenty . ''
`` Is she accomplished ? ''
began Rose in a wondering tone , for this great-aunt of hers had seemed the least cultivated of them all .
`` In the good old-fashioned way she is very accomplished , and has made this house a happy home to us all , ever since we can remember .
She is not elegant , but genuinely good , and so beloved and respected that there will be universal mourning for her when her place is empty .
No one can fill it , for the solid , homely virtues of the dear soul have gone out of fashion , as I say , and nothing new can be half so satisfactory , to me at least . ''
`` I should like to have people feel so about me .
Can she teach me to do what she does , and to grow as good ? ''
asked Rose , with a little prick of remorse for even thinking that Aunt Plenty was a commonplace old lady .
`` Yes , if you do n't despise such simple lessons as she can give .
I know it would fill her dear old heart with pride and pleasure to feel that anyone cared to learn of her , for she fancies her day gone by .
Let her teach you how to be what she has been a skilful , frugal , cheerful housewife ; the maker and the keeper of a happy home , and by and by you will see what a valuable lesson it is . ''
`` I will , uncle .
But how shall I begin ? ''
`` I 'll speak to her about it , and she will make it all right with Dolly , for cooking is one of the main things , you know . ''
`` So it is !
I do n't mind that a bit , for I like to mess , and used to try at home ; but I had no one to tell me , so I never did much but spoil my aprons .
Pies are great fun , only Dolly is so cross , I do n't believe she will ever let me do a thing in the kitchen . ''
`` Then we 'll cook in the parlour .
I fancy Aunt Plenty will manage her , so do n't be troubled .
Only mind this , I 'd rather you learned how to make good bread than the best pies ever baked .
When you bring me a handsome , wholesome loaf , entirely made by yourself , I shall be more pleased than if you offered me a pair of slippers embroidered in the very latest style .
I do n't wish to bribe you , but I 'll give you my heartiest kiss , and promise to eat every crumb of the loaf myself . ''
`` It 's a bargain !
it 's a bargain !
Come and tell aunty all about it , for I 'm in a hurry to begin , '' cried Rose , dancing before him toward the parlor , where Miss Plenty sat alone knitting contentedly , yet ready to run at the first call for help of any sort , from any quarter .
No need to tell how surprised and gratified she was at the invitation she received to teach the child the domestic arts which were her only accomplishments , nor to relate how energetically she set about her pleasant task .
Dolly dared not grumble , for Miss Plenty was the one person whom she obeyed , and Phebe openly rejoiced , for these new lessons brought Rose nearer to her , and glorified the kitchen in the good girl 's eyes .
To tell the truth , the elder aunts had sometimes felt that they did not have quite their share of the little niece who had won their hearts long ago , and was the sunshine of the house .
They talked it over together sometimes , but always ended by saying that as Alec had all the responsibility , he should have the larger share of the dear girl 's love and time , and they would be contented with such crumbs of comfort as they could get .
Dr. Alec had found out this little secret , and , after reproaching himself for being blind and selfish , was trying to devise some way of mending matters without troubling anyone , when Rose 's new whim suggested an excellent method of weaning her a little from himself .
He did not know how fond he was of her till he gave her up to the new teacher , and often could not resist peeping in at the door to see how she got on , or stealing sly looks through the slide when she was deep in dough , or listening intently to some impressive lecture from Aunt Plenty .
They caught him at it now and then , and ordered him off the premises at the point of the rolling-pin ; or , if unusually successful , and , therefore , in a milder mood , they lured him away with bribes of ginger-bread , a stray pickle , or a tart that was not quite symmetrical enough to suit their critical eyes .
Of course he made a point of partaking copiously of all the delectable messes that now appeared at table , for both the cooks were on their mettle , and he fared sumptuously every day .
But an especial relish was given to any dish when , in reply to his honest praise of it , Rose coloured up with innocent pride , and said modestly , `` I made that , uncle , and I 'm glad you like it . ''
It was some time before the perfect loaf appeared , for bread-making is an art not easily learned , and Aunt Plenty was very thorough in her teaching ; so Rose studied yeast first , and through various stages of cake and biscuit came at last to the crowning glory of the `` handsome , wholesome loaf . ''
It appeared at tea-time , on a silver salver , proudly borne in by Phebe , who could not refrain from whispering , with a beaming face , as she set it down before Dr. Alec , `` Ai n't it just lovely , sir ? ''
`` It is a regularly splendid loaf !
Did my girl make it all herself ? ''
he asked , surveying the shapely , sweet-smelling object with real interest and pleasure .
`` Every particle herself , and never asked a bit of help or advice from anyone , '' answered Aunt Plenty , folding her hands with an air of unmitigated satisfaction , for her pupil certainly did her great credit .
`` I 've had so many failures and troubles that I really thought I never should be able to do it alone .
Dolly let one splendid batch burn up because I forgot it .
She was there and smelt it , but never did a thing , for she said , when I undertook to bake bread I must give my whole mind to it .
Was n't it hard ?
She might have called me at least , '' said Rose , recollecting , with a sigh , the anguish of that moment .
`` She meant you should learn by experience , as Rosamond did in that little affair of the purple jar , you remember . ''
`` I always thought it very unfair in her mother not to warn the poor thing a little bit ; and she was regularly mean when Rosamond asked for a bowl to put the purple stuff in , and she said , in such a provoking way , ' I did not agree to lend you a bowl , but I will , my dear . '
Ugh !
I always want to shake that hateful woman , though she was a moral mamma . ''
`` Never mind her now , but tell me all about my loaf , '' said Dr. Alec , much amused at Rose 's burst of indignation .
`` There 's nothing to tell , uncle , except that I did my best , gave my mind to it , and sat watching over it all the while it was in the oven till I was quite baked myself .
Everything went right this time , and it came out a nice , round , crusty loaf , as you see .
Now taste it , and tell me if it is good as well as handsome . ''
`` Must I cut it ?
Ca n't I put it under a glass cover and keep it in the parlor as they do wax flowers and fine works of that sort ? ''
`` What an idea , uncle !
It would mould and be spoilt .
Besides , people would laugh at us , and make fun of my old-fashioned accomplishment .
You promised to eat it , and you must ; not all at once , but as soon as you can , so I can make you some more . ''
Dr. Alec solemnly cut off his favourite crusty slice , and solemnly ate it ; then wiped his lips , and brushing back Rose 's hair , solemnly kissed her on the forehead , saying , heartily , `` My dear , it is perfect bread , and you are an honour to your teacher .
When we have our model school I shall offer a prize for the best bread , and you will get it . ''
`` I 've got it already , and I 'm quite satisfied , '' said Rose , slipping into her seat , and trying to hide her right hand which had a burn on it .
But Dr. Alec saw it , guessed how it came there , and after tea insisted on easing the pain which she would hardly confess .
`` Aunt Clara says I am spoiling my hands , but I do n't care , for I 've had such good times with Aunt Plenty , and I think she has enjoyed it as much as I have .
Only one thing troubles me , uncle , and I want to ask you about it , '' said Rose , as they paced up and down the hall in the twilight , the bandaged hand very carefully laid on Dr. Alec 's arm .
`` More little confidences ?
I like them immensely , so tell away , my dear . ''
`` Well , you see I feel as if Aunt Peace would like to do something for me , and I 've found out what it can be .
You know she ca n't go about like Aunty Plen , and we are so busy nowadays that she is rather lonely , I 'm afraid .
So I want to take lessons in sewing of her .
She works so beautifully , and it is a useful thing , you know , and I ought to be a good needlewoman as well as housekeeper , ought n't I ? ''
`` Bless your kind little heart , that is what I was thinking of the other day when Aunt Peace said she saw you very seldom now , you were so busy I wanted to speak of it , but fancied you had as much on your hands as you could manage .
It would delight the dear woman to teach you all her delicate handicraft , especially button-holes , for I believe that is where young ladies fail ; at least , I 've heard them say so .
So , do you devote your mind to button-holes ; make 'em all over my clothes if you want something to practice on .
I 'll wear any quantity . ''
Rose laughed at this reckless offer , but promised to attend to that important branch , though she confessed that darning was her weak point .
Whereupon Uncle Alec engaged to supply her with socks in all stages of dilapidation , and to have a new set at once , so that she could run the heels for him as a pleasant beginning .
Then they went up to make their request in due form , to the great delight of gentle Aunt Peace , who got quite excited with the fun that went on while they would yarn , looked up darning needles , and fitted out a nice little mending basket for her pupil .
Very busy and very happy were Rose 's days now , for in the morning she went about the house with Aunt Plenty attending to linen-closets and store-rooms , pickling and preserving , exploring garret and cellar to see that all was right , and learning , in the good old-fashioned manner , to look well after the ways of the household .
In the afternoon , after her walk or drive , she sat with Aunt Peace plying her needle , while Aunt Plenty , whose eyes were failing , knitted and chatted briskly , telling many a pleasant story of old times , till the three were moved to laugh and cry together , for the busy needles were embroidering all sorts of bright patterns on the lives of the workers , though they seemed to be only stitching cotton and darning hose .
It was a pretty sight to see the rosy-faced little maid sitting between the two old ladies , listening dutifully to their instructions , and cheering the lessons with her lively chatter and blithe laugh .
If the kitchen had proved attractive to Dr. Alec when Rose was there at work , the sewing-room was quite irresistible , and he made himself so agreeable that no one had the heart to drive him away , especially when he read aloud or spun yarns .
`` There !
I 've made you a new set of warm night-gowns with four button-holes in each .
See if they are not neatly done , '' said Rose , one day , some weeks after the new lessons began .
`` Even to a thread , and nice little bars across the end so I ca n't tear them when I twitch the buttons out .
Most superior work , ma'am , and I 'm deeply grateful ; so much so , that I 'll sew on these buttons myself , and save those tired fingers from another prick . ''
`` You sew them on ? ''
cried Rose , with her eyes wide open in amazement .
`` Wait a bit till I get my sewing tackle , and then you shall see what I can do . ''
`` Can he , really ? ''
asked Rose of Aunt Peace , as Uncle Alec marched off with a comical air of importance .
`` Oh , yes , I taught him years ago , before he went to sea ; and I suppose he has had to do things for himself , more or less , ever since ; so he has kept his hand in . ''
He evidently had , for he was soon back with a funny little work-bag , out of which he produced a thimble without a top ; and , having threaded his needle , he proceeded to sew on the buttons so handily that Rose was much impressed and amused .
`` I wonder if there is anything in the world that you can not do , '' she said , in a tone of respectful admiration .
`` There are one or two things that I am not up to yet , '' he answered , with a laugh in the corner of his eye , as he waxed his thread with a flourish .
`` I should like to know what ? ''
`` Bread and button-holes , ma'am . ''
Chapter 17 -- Good Bargains It was a rainy Sunday afternoon , and four boys were trying to spend it quietly in the `` liberry , '' as Jamie called the room devoted to books and boys , at Aunt Jessie 's .
Will and Geordie were sprawling on the sofa , deep in the adventures of the scapegraces and ragamuffins whose histories are now the fashion .
Archie lounged in the easy chair , surrounded by newspapers ; Charlie stood upon the rug , in an Englishman 's favourite attitude , and , I regret to say , both were smoking cigars .
`` It is my opinion that this day will never come to an end , '' said Prince , with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder .
`` Read and improve your mind , my son , '' answered Archie , peering solemnly over the paper behind which he had been dozing .
`` Do n't you preach , parson , but put on your boots and come out for a tramp , instead of mulling over the fire like a granny . ''
`` No , thank you , tramps in an easterly storm do n't strike me as amusing . ''
There Archie stopped and held up his hand , for a pleasant voice was heard saying outside , `` Are the boys in the library , auntie ? ''
`` Yes , dear , and longing for sunshine ; so run in and make it for them , '' answered Mrs. Jessie .
`` It 's Rose , '' and Archie threw his cigar into the fire .
`` What 's that for ? ''
asked Charlie .
`` Gentlemen do n't smoke before ladies . ''
`` True ; but I 'm not going to waste my weed , '' and Prince poked his into the empty inkstand that served them for an ash tray .
A gentle tap at the door was answered by a chorus of `` Come in , '' and Rose appeared , looking blooming and breezy with the chilly air .
`` If I disturb you , say so , and I 'll go away , '' she began , pausing on the threshold with modest hesitation , for something in the elder boys ' faces excited her curiosity .
`` You never disturb us , cousin , '' said the smokers , while the readers tore themselves from the heroes of the bar-room and gutter long enough to nod affably to their guest .
As Rose bent to warm her hands , one end of Archie 's cigar stuck out of the ashes , smoking furiously and smelling strongly .
`` Oh , you bad boys , how could you do it , to-day of all days ? ''
she said reproachfully .
`` Where 's the harm ? ''
asked Archie .
`` You know as well as I do ; your mother does n't like it , and it 's a bad habit , for it wastes money and does you no good . ''
`` Fiddlesticks !
every man smokes , even Uncle Alec , whom you think so perfect , '' began Charlie , in his teasing way .
`` No , he does n't !
He has given it up , and I know why , '' cried Rose eagerly .
`` Now I think of it , I have n't seen the old meerschaum since he came home .
Did he stop it on our account ? ''
asked Archie .
`` Yes , '' and Rose told the little scene on the seashore in the camping-out time .
Archie seemed much impressed , and said manfully , `` He wo n't have done that in vain so far as I 'm concerned .
I do n't care a pin about smoking , so can give it up as easy as not , and I promise you I will .
I only do it now and then for fun . ''
`` You too ? ''
and Rose looked up at the bonny Prince , who never looked less bonny than at that moment , for he had resumed his cigar just to torment her .
Now Charlie cared as little as Archie about smoking , but it would not do to yield too soon : so he shook his head , gave a great puff , and said loftily , `` You women are always asking us to give up harmless little things just because you do n't approve of them .
How would you like it if we did the same by you , miss ? ''
`` If I did harmful or silly things , I 'd thank you for telling me of them , and I 'd try to mend my ways , '' answered Rose heartily .
`` Well , now , we 'll see if you mean what you say .
I 'll give up smoking to please you , if you will give up something to please me , '' said Prince , seeing a good chance to lord it over the weaker vessel at small cost to himself .
`` I 'll agree if it is as foolish as cigars . ''
`` Oh , it 's ever so much sillier . ''
`` Then I promise ; what is it ? ''
and Rose quite trembled with anxiety to know which of her pet habits or possessions she must lose .
`` Give up your ear-rings , '' and Charlie laughed wickedly , sure that she would never hold to that bargain .
Rose uttered a cry and clapped both hands to her ears where the gold rings hung .
`` Oh , Charlie , would n't anything else do as well ?
I 've been through so much teasing and trouble , I do want to enjoy my pretty ear-rings , for I can wear them now . ''
`` Wear as many as you like , and I 'll smoke in peace , '' returned this bad boy .
`` Will nothing else satisfy you ? ''
imploringly .
`` Nothing , '' sternly .
Rose stood silent for a minute , thinking of something Aunt Jessie once said `` You have more influence over the boys than you know ; use it for their good , and I shall thank you all my life . ''
Here was a chance to do some good by sacrificing a little vanity of her own .
She felt it was right to do it , yet found it very hard , and asked wistfully , `` Do you mean never wear them , Charlie ? ''
`` Never , unless you want me to smoke . ''
`` I never do . ''
`` Then clinch the bargain . ''
He had no idea she would do it , and was much surprised when she took the dear rings from her ears , with a quick gesture , and held them out to him , saying , in a tone that made the colour come up to his brown cheek , it was so full of sweet good will , `` I care more for my cousins than for my ear-rings , so I promise , and I 'll keep my word . ''
`` For shame , Prince !
let her wear her little danglers if she likes , and do n't bargain about doing what you know is right , '' cried Archie , coming out of his grove of newspapers with an indignant bounce .
But Rose was bent on showing her aunt that she could use her influence for the boys ' good , and said steadily , `` It is fair , and I want it to be so , then you will believe I 'm in earnest .
Here , each of you wear one of these on your watch-guard to remind you .
I shall not forget , because very soon I can not wear ear-rings if I want to . ''
As she spoke , Rose offered a little ring to each cousin , and the boys , seeing how sincere she was , obeyed her .
When the pledges were safe , Rose stretched a hand to each , and the lads gave hers a hearty grip , half pleased and half ashamed of their part in the compact .
Just at that moment Dr. Alec and Mrs. Jessie came in .
`` What 's this ?
Dancing Ladies ' Triumph on Sunday ? ''
exclaimed Uncle Alec , surveying the trio with surprise .
`` No , sir , it is the Anti-Tobacco League .
Will you join ? ''
said Charlie , while Rose slipped away to her aunt , and Archie buried both cigars behind the back log .
When the mystery was explained , the elders were well pleased , and Rose received a vote of thanks , which made her feel as if she had done a service to her country , as she had , for every boy who grows up free from bad habits bids fair to make a good citizen .
`` I wish Rose would drive a bargain with Will and Geordie also , for I think these books are as bad for the small boys as cigars for the large ones , '' said Mrs. Jessie , sitting down on the sofa between the readers , who politely curled up their legs to make room for her .
`` I thought they were all the fashion , '' answered Dr. Alec , settling in the big chair with Rose .
`` So is smoking , but it is harmful .
The writers of these popular stories intend to do good , I have no doubt , but it seems to me they fail because their motto is , ` Be smart , and you will be rich , ' instead of ` Be honest , and you will be happy . '
I do not judge hastily , Alec , for I have read a dozen , at least , of these stories , and , with much that is attractive to boys , I find a great deal to condemn in them , and other parents say the same when I ask them . ''
`` Now , Mum , that 's too bad !
I like 'em tip-top .
This one is a regular screamer , '' cried Will .
`` They 're bully books , and I 'd like to know where 's the harm , '' added Geordie .
`` You have just shown us one of the chief evils , and that is slang , '' answered their mother quickly .
`` Must have it , ma'am .
If these chaps talked all right , there 'd be no fun in 'em , '' protested Will .
`` A boot-black must n't use good grammar , and a newsboy must swear a little , or he would n't be natural , '' explained Geordie , both boys ready to fight gallantly for their favourites .
`` But my sons are neither boot-blacks nor newsboys , and I object to hearing them use such words as ` screamer , ' ` bully , ' and ` buster . '
In fact , I fail to see the advantage of writing books about such people unless it is done in a very different way .
I can not think they will help to refine the ragamuffins if they read them , and I 'm sure they can do no good to the better class of boys , who through these books are introduced to police courts , counterfeiters ' dens , gambling houses , drinking saloons , and all sorts of low life . ''
`` Some of them are about first-rate boys , mother ; and they go to sea and study , and sail round the world , having great larks all the way . ''
`` I have read about them , Geordie , and though they are better than the others , I am not satisfied with these optical delusions , as I call them .
Now , I put it to you , boys , is it natural for lads from fifteen to eighteen to command ships , defeat pirates , outwit smugglers , and so cover themselves with glory , that Admiral Farragut invites them to dinner , saying , ` Noble boy , you are an honour to your country ! '
Or , if the hero is in the army , he has hair-breadth escapes and adventures enough in one small volume to turn his hair white , and in the end he goes to Washington at the express desire of the President or Commander-in-chief to be promoted to no end of stars and bars .
Even if the hero is merely an honest boy trying to get his living , he is not permitted to do so in a natural way , by hard work and years of patient effort , but is suddenly adopted by a millionaire whose pocket-book he has returned ; or a rich uncle appears from sea just in the nick of time ; or the remarkable boy earns a few dollars , speculates in pea-nuts or neckties , and grows rich so rapidly that Sinbad in the diamond valley is a pauper compared to him .
Is n't it so , boys ? ''
`` Well , the fellows in these books are mighty lucky , and very smart , I must say , '' answered Will , surveying an illustration on the open page before him , where a small but virtuous youth is upsetting a tipsy giant in a bar-room , and under it the elegant inscription , `` Dick Dauntless punches the head of Sam Soaker . ''
`` It gives boys such wrong ideas of life and business ; shows them so much evil and vulgarity that they need not know about , and makes the one success worth having a fortune , a lord 's daughter , or some worldly honour , often not worth the time it takes to win .
It does seem to me that some one might write stories that should be lively , natural and helpful tales in which the English should be good , the morals pure , and the characters such as we can love in spite of the faults that all may have .
I ca n't bear to see such crowds of eager little fellows at the libraries reading such trash ; weak , when it is not wicked , and totally unfit to feed the hungry minds that feast on it for want of something better .
There !
my lecture is done ; now I should like to hear what you gentlemen have to say , '' and Aunt Jessie subsided with a pretty flush on the face that was full of motherly anxiety for her boys .
`` Tom Brown just suits mother , and me too , so I wish Mr. Hughes would write another story as good , '' said Archie .
`` You do n't find things of this sort in Tom Brown ; yet these books are all in the Sunday-school libraries '' and Mrs. Jessie read the following paragraph from the book she had taken from Will 's hand , '' ` In this place we saw a tooth of John the Baptist .
Ben said he could see locust and wild honey sticking to it .
I could n't .
Perhaps John used a piece of the true cross for a tooth-pick . ' ''
`` A larky sort of a boy says that , Mum , and we skip the parts where they describe what they saw in the different countries , '' cried Will .
`` And those descriptions , taken mostly from guidebooks , I fancy , are the only parts of any real worth .
The scrapes of the bad boys make up the rest of the story , and it is for those you read these books , I think , '' answered his mother , stroking back the hair off the honest little face that looked rather abashed at this true statement of the case .
`` Anyway , mother , the ship part is useful , for we learn how to sail her , and by and by that will all come handy when we go to sea , '' put in Geordie .
`` Indeed , then you can explain this manoeuvre to me , of course , '' and Mrs. Jessie read from another page the following nautical paragraph , `` The wind is south-south-west , and we can have her up four points closer to the wind , and still be six points off the wind .
As she luffs up we shall man the fore and main sheets , slack on the weather , and haul on the lee braces . ''
`` I guess I could , if I was n't afraid of uncle .
He knows so much more than I do , he 'd laugh , '' began Geordie , evidently puzzled by the question .
`` Ho , you know you ca n't , so why make believe ?
We do n't understand half of the sea lingo , Mum , and I dare say it 's all wrong , '' cried Will , suddenly going over to the enemy , to Geordie 's great disgust .
`` I do wish the boys would n't talk to me as if I was a ship , '' said Rose , bringing forward a private grievance .
`` Coming home from church this morning , the wind blew me about , and Will called out , right in the street , ` Brail up the foresail , and take in the flying-jib , that will ease her . ' ''
The boys shouted at the plaintive tone in which Rose repeated the words that offended her , and Will vainly endeavoured to explain that he only meant to tell her to wrap her cloak closer , and tie a veil over the tempest-tossed feathers in her hat .
`` To tell the truth , if the boys must have slang , I can bear the ` sea lingo , ' as Will calls it , better than the other .
It afflicts me less to hear my sons talk about ` brailing up the foresail ' than doing as they ` darn please , ' and ` cut your cable ' is decidedly preferable to ` let her rip . '
I once made a rule that I would have no slang in the house .
I give it up now , for I can not keep it ; but I will not have rubbishy books ; so , Archie , please send these two after your cigars . ''
Mrs. Jessie held both the small boys fast with an arm round each neck , and when she took this base advantage of them they could only squirm with dismay .
`` Yes , right behind the back log , '' she continued , energetically .
`` There , my hearties -LRB- you like sea slang , so I 'll give you a bit -RRB- now , I want you to promise not to read any more stuff for a month , and I 'll agree to supply you with wholesome fare . ''
`` Oh , mother , not a single one ? ''
cried Will .
`` Could n't we just finish those ? ''
pleaded Geordie .
`` The boys threw away half-smoked cigars ; and your books must go after them .
Surely you would not be outdone by the ` old fellows , ' as you call them , or be less obedient to little Mum than they were to Rose . ''
`` Course not !
Come on , Geordie , '' and Will took the vow like a hero .
His brother sighed and obeyed , but privately resolved to finish his story the minute the month was over .
`` You have laid out a hard task for yourself , Jessie , in trying to provide good reading for boys who have been living on sensation stories .
It will be like going from raspberry tarts to plain bread and butter ; but you will probably save them from a bilious fever , '' said Dr. Alec , much amused at the proceedings .
`` I remember hearing grandpa say that a love for good books was one of the best safeguards a man could have , '' began Archie , staring thoughtfully at the fine library before him .
`` Yes , but there 's no time to read nowadays ; a fellow has to keep scratching round to make money or he 's nobody , '' cut in Charlie , trying to look worldly-wise .
`` This love of money is the curse of America , and for the sake of it men will sell honour and honesty , till we do n't know whom to trust , and it is only a genius like Agassiz who dares to say , ' I can not waste my time in getting rich , ' '' said Mrs. Jessie sadly .
`` Do you want us to be poor , mother ? ''
asked Archie , wondering .
`` No , dear , and you never need be , while you can use your hands ; but I am afraid of this thirst for wealth , and the temptations it brings .
O , my boys !
I tremble for the time when I must let you go , because I think it would break my heart to have you fail as so many fail .
It would be far easier to see you dead if it could be said of you as of Sumner ` No man dared offer him a bribe . ' ''
Mrs. Jessie was so earnest in her motherly anxiety that her voice faltered over the last words , and she hugged the yellow heads closer in her arms , as if she feared to let them leave that safe harbour for the great sea where so many little boats go down .
The younger lads nestled closer to her , and Archie said , in his quiet , resolute way , `` I can not promise to be an Agassiz or a Sumner , mother ; but I do promise to be an honest man , please God . ''
`` Then I 'm satisfied ! ''
and holding fast the hand he gave her , she sealed his promise with a kiss that had all a mother 's hope and faith in it .
`` I do n't see how they ever can be bad , she is so fond and proud of them , '' whispered Rose , quite touched by the little scene .
`` You must help her make them what they should be .
You have begun already , and when I see those rings where they are , my girl is prettier in my sight than if the biggest diamonds that ever twinkled shone in her ears , '' answered Dr. Alec , looking at her with approving eyes .
`` I 'm so glad you think I can do anything , for I perfectly ache to be useful ; everyone is so good to me , especially Aunt Jessie . ''
`` I think you are in a fair way to pay your debts , Rosy , for when girls give up their little vanities , and boys their small vices , and try to strengthen each other in well-doing , matters are going as they ought .
Work away , my dear , and help their mother keep these sons fit friends for an innocent creature like yourself ; they will be the manlier men for it , I can assure you . ''
Chapter 18 -- Fashion and Physiology `` Please , sir , I guess you 'd better step up right away , or it will be too late , for I heard Miss Rose say she knew you would n't like it , and she 'd never dare to let you see her . ''
Phebe said this as she popped her head into the study , where Dr. Alec sat reading a new book .
`` They are at it , are they ? ''
he said , looking up quickly , and giving himself a shake , as if ready for a battle of some sort .
`` Yes , sir , as hard as they can talk , and Miss Rose do n't seem to know what to do , for the things are ever so stylish , and she looks elegant in 'em ; though I like her best in the old ones , '' answered Phebe .
`` You are a girl of sense .
I 'll settle matters for Rosy , and you 'll lend a hand .
Is everything ready in her room , and are you sure you understand how they go ? ''
`` Oh , yes , sir ; but they are so funny !
I know Miss Rose will think it 's a joke , '' and Phebe laughed as if something tickled her immensely .
`` Never mind what she thinks so long as she obeys .
Tell her to do it for my sake , and she will find it the best joke she ever saw .
I expect to have a tough time of it , but we 'll win yet , '' said the Doctor , as he marched upstairs with the book in his hand , and an odd smile on his face .
There was such a clatter of tongues in the sewing-room that no one heard his tap at the door , so he pushed it open and took an observation .
Aunt Plenty , Aunt Clara , and Aunt Jessie were all absorbed in gazing at Rose , who slowly revolved between them and the great mirror , in a full winter costume of the latest fashion .
`` Bless my heart !
worse even than I expected , '' thought the Doctor , with an inward groan , for , to his benighted eyes , the girl looked like a trussed fowl , and the fine new dress had neither grace , beauty , nor fitness to recommend it .
The suit was of two peculiar shades of blue , so arranged that patches of light and dark distracted the eye .
The upper skirt was tied so lightly back that it was impossible to take a long step , and the under one was so loaded with plaited frills that it `` wobbled '' no other word will express it ungracefully , both fore and aft .
A bunch of folds was gathered up just below the waist behind , and a great bow rode a-top .
A small jacket of the same material was adorned with a high ruff at the back , and laid well open over the breast , to display some lace and a locket .
Heavy fringes , bows , puffs , ruffles , and revers finished off the dress , making one 's head ache to think of the amount of work wasted , for not a single graceful line struck the eye , and the beauty of the material was quite lost in the profusion of ornament .
A high velvet hat , audaciously turned up in front , with a bunch of pink roses and a sweeping plume , was cocked over one ear , and , with her curls braided into a club at the back of her neck , Rose 's head looked more like that of a dashing young cavalier than a modest little girl 's .
High-heeled boots tilted her well forward , a tiny muff pinioned her arms , and a spotted veil , tied so closely over her face that her eyelashes were rumpled by it , gave the last touch of absurdity to her appearance .
`` Now she looks like other girls , and as I like to see her , '' Mrs. Clara was saying , with an air of great satisfaction .
`` She does look like a fashionable young lady , but somehow I miss my little Rose , for children dressed like children in my day , '' answered Aunt Plenty , peering through her glasses with a troubled look , for she could not imagine the creature before her ever sitting in her lap , running to wait upon her , or making the house gay with a child 's blithe presence .
`` Things have changed since your day , Aunt , and it takes time to get used to new ways .
But you , Jessie , surely like this costume better than the dowdy things Rose has been wearing all summer .
Now , be honest , and own you do , '' said Mrs. Clara , bent on being praised for her work .
`` Well , dear to be quite honest , then , I think it is frightful , '' answered Mrs. Jessie , with a candour that caused revolving Rose to stop in dismay .
`` Hear , hear , '' cried a deep voice , and with a general start the ladies became aware that the enemy was among them .
Rose blushed up to her hat brim , and stood , looking , as she felt , like a fool , while Mrs. Clara hastened to explain .
`` Of course , I do n't expect you to like it , Alec , but I do n't consider you a judge of what is proper and becoming for a young lady .
Therefore , I have taken the liberty of providing a pretty street suit for Rose .
She need not wear it if you object , for I know we promised to let you do what you liked with the poor dear for a year . ''
`` It is a street costume , is it ? ''
asked the Doctor , mildly .
`` Do you know , I never should have guessed that it was meant for winter weather and brisk locomotion .
Take a turn , Rosy , and let me see all its beauties and advantages . ''
Rose tried to walk off with her usual free tread , but the under-skirt got in her way , the over-skirt was so tight she could not take a long step , and her boots made it impossible to carry herself perfectly erect .
`` I have n't got used to it yet , '' she said , petulantly , kicking at her train , as she turned to toddle back again .
`` Suppose a mad dog or a runaway horse was after you , could you get out of the way without upsetting , Colonel , '' asked the Doctor , with a twinkle in the eyes that were fixed on the rakish hat .
`` Do n't think I could , but I 'll try , '' and Rose made a rush across the room .
Her boot-heels caught on a rug , several strings broke , her hat tipped over her eyes , and she plunged promiscuously into a chair , where she sat laughing so infectiously that all but Mrs. Clara joined in her mirth .
`` I should say that a walking suit in which one could not walk , and a winter suit which exposes the throat , head , and feet to cold and damp , was rather a failure , Clara , especially as it has no beauty to reconcile one to its utter unfitness , '' said Dr. Alec , as he helped Rose undo her veil , adding , in a low tone , `` Nice thing for the eyes ; you 'll soon see spots when it 's off as well as when it 's on , and , by and by , be a case for an oculist . ''
`` No beauty ! ''
cried Mrs. Clara , warmly , `` Now , that is just a man 's blindness .
This is the best of silk and camel 's hair , real ostrich feathers , and an expensive ermine muff .
What could be in better taste , or more proper for a young girl ? ''
`` I 'll shew you , if Rose will go to her room and oblige me by putting on what she finds there , '' answered the Doctor , with unexpected readiness .
`` Alec , if it is a Bloomer , I shall protest .
I 've been expecting it , but I know I can not bear to see that pretty child sacrificed to your wild ideas of health .
Tell me it is n't a Bloomer ! ''
and Mrs. Clara clasped her hands imploringly .
`` It is not . ''
`` Thank Heaven ! ''
and she resigned herself with a sigh of relief , adding plaintively , `` I did hope you 'd accept my suit , for poor Rose has been afflicted with frightful clothes long enough to spoil the taste of any girl . ''
`` You talk of my afflicting the child , and then make a helpless guy like that of her ! ''
answered the Doctor , pointing to the little fashion plate that was scuttling out of sight as fast as it could go .
He closed the door with a shrug , but before anyone could speak , his quick eye fell upon an object which caused him to frown , and demand in an indignant tone , `` After all I have said , were you really going to tempt my girl with those abominable things ? ''
`` I thought we put them away when she would n't wear them , '' murmured Mrs. Clara , whisking a little pair of corsets out of sight with guilty haste .
`` I only brought them to try , for Rose is growing stout , and will have no figure if it is not attended to soon , '' she added , with an air of calm conviction that roused the Doctor still more , for this was one of his especial abominations .
`` Growing stout !
Yes , thank Heaven , she is , and shall continue to do it , for Nature knows how to mould a woman better than any corset-maker , and I wo n't have her interfered with .
My dear Clara , have you lost your senses that you can for a moment dream of putting a growing girl into an instrument of torture like this ? ''
and with a sudden gesture he plucked forth the offending corsets from under the sofa cushion , and held them out with the expression one would wear on beholding the thumbscrews or the rack of ancient times .
`` Do n't be absurd , Alec .
There is no torture about it , for tight lacing is out of fashion , and we have nice , sensible things nowadays .
Everyone wears them ; even babies have stiffened waists to support their weak little backs , '' began Mrs. Clara , rushing to the defence of the pet delusion of most women .
`` I know it , and so the poor little souls have weak backs all their days , as their mothers had before them .
It is vain to argue the matter , and I wo n't try , but I wish to state , once for all , that if I ever see a pair of corsets near Rose , I 'll put them in the fire , and you may send the bill to me . ''
As he spoke the corsets were on their way to destruction , but Mrs. Jessie caught his arm , exclaiming merrily , `` Do n't burn them , for mercy sake , Alec ; they are full of whalebones , and will make a dreadful odour .
Give them to me .
I 'll see that they do no harm . ''
`` Whalebones , indeed !
A regular fence of them , and metal gate-posts in front .
As if our own bones were not enough , if we 'd give them a chance to do their duty , '' growled the Doctor , yielding up the bone of contention with a last shake of contempt .
Then his face cleared suddenly , and he held up his finger , saying , with a smile , `` Hear those girls laugh ; cramped lungs could not make hearty music like that . ''
Peals of laughter issued from Rose 's room , and smiles involuntarily touched the lips of those who listened to the happy sound .
`` Some new prank of yours , Alec ? ''
asked Aunt Plenty , indulgently , for she had come to believe in most of her nephew 's odd notions , because they seemed to work so well .
`` Yes , ma'am , my last , and I hope you will like it .
I discovered what Clara was at , and got my rival suit ready for to-day .
I 'm not going to ` afflict ' Rose , but let her choose , and if I 'm not entirely mistaken , she will like my rig best .
While we wait I 'll explain , and then you will appreciate the general effect better .
I got hold of this little book , and was struck with its good sense and good taste , for it suggests a way to clothe women both healthfully and handsomely , and that is a great point .
It begins at the foundations , as you will see if you will look at these pictures , and I should think women would rejoice at this lightening of their burdens . ''
As he spoke , the Doctor laid the book before Aunt Plenty , who obediently brought her spectacles to bear upon the illustrations , and after a long look exclaimed , with a scandalised face , `` Mercy on us , these things are like the night-drawers Jamie wears !
You do n't mean to say you want Rose to come out in this costume ?
It 's not proper , and I wo n't consent to it ! ''
`` I do mean it , and I 'm sure my sensible aunt will consent when she understands that these well I 'll call them by an Indian name , and say pajamas are for underwear , and Rose can have as pretty frocks as she likes outside .
These two suits of flannel , each in one piece from head to foot , with a skirt or so hung on this easily-fitting waist , will keep the child warm without burdening her with belts , and gathers , and buckles , and bunches round the waist , and leave free the muscles that need plenty of room to work in .
She shall never have the back-ache if I can help it , nor the long list of ills you dear women think you can not escape . ''
`` I do n't consider it modest , and I 'm sure Rose will be shocked at it , '' began Mrs. Clara , but stopped suddenly , as Rose appeared in the doorway , not looking shocked a bit .
`` Come on , my hygienic model , and let us see you , '' said her uncle , with an approving glance , as she walked in , looking so mischievously merry , that it was evident she enjoyed the joke .
`` Well , I do n't see anything remarkable .
That is a neat , plain suit ; the materials are good , and it 's not unbecoming , if you want her to look like a little school-girl ; but it has not a particle of style , and no one would ever give it a second glance , '' said Mrs. Clara , feeling that her last remark condemned the whole thing .
`` Exactly what I want , '' answered the provoking Doctor , rubbing his hands with a satisfied air .
`` Rosy looks now like what she is , a modest little girl , who does not want to be stared at .
I think she would get a glance of approval , though , from people who like sense and simplicity rather than fuss and feathers .
Revolve , my Hebe , and let me refresh my eyes by the sight of you . ''
There was very little to see , however , only a pretty Gabrielle dress , of a soft warm shade of brown , coming to the tops of a trim pair of boots with low heels .
A seal-skin sack , cap , and mittens , with a glimpse of scarlet at the throat , and the pretty curls tied up with a bright velvet of the same colour , completed the external adornment , making her look like a robin redbreast wintry , yet warm .
`` How do you like it , Rosy ? ''
asked the Doctor , feeling that her opinion was more important to the success of his new idea than that of all the aunts on the hill .
`` I feel very odd and light , but I 'm warm as a toast , and nothing seems to be in my way , '' answered Rose , with a skip which displayed shapely gaiters on legs that now might be as free and active as a boy 's under the modest skirts of the girl .
`` You can run away from the mad dogs , and walk off at a smart pace without tumbling on your nose , now , I fancy ? ''
`` Yes , uncle !
suppose the dog coming , I just hop over a wall so and when I walk of a cold day , I go like this . ''
Entering fully into the spirit of the thing , Rose swung herself over the high back of the sofa as easily as one of her cousins , and then went down the long hall as if her stout boots were related to the famous seven-leaguers .
`` There !
you see how it will be ; dress her in that boyish way and she will act like a boy .
I do hate all these inventions of strong-minded women ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Clara , as Rose came back at a run .
`` Ah , but you see some of these sensible inventions come from the brain of a fashionable modiste , who will make you more lovely , or what you value more ` stylish ' outside and comfortable within .
Mrs. Van Tassel has been to Madame Stone , and is wearing a full suit of this sort .
Van himself told me , when I asked how she was , that she had given up lying on the sofa , and was going about in a most astonishing way , considering her feeble health . ''
`` You do n't say so !
Let me see that book a moment , '' and Aunt Clara examined the new patterns with a more respectful air , for if the elegant Mrs. Van Tassel wore these `` dreadful things '' it would never do to be left behind , in spite of her prejudices .
Dr. Alec looked at Mrs. Jessie , and both smiled , for `` little Mum '' had been in the secret , and enjoyed it mightily .
`` I thought that would settle it , '' he said with a nod .
`` I did n't wait for Mrs. Van to lead the way , and for once in my life I have adopted a new fashion before Clara .
My freedom suit is ordered , and you may see me playing tag with Rose and the boys before long , '' answered Mrs. Jessie , nodding back at him .
Meantime Aunt Plenty was examining Rose 's costume , for the hat and sack were off , and the girl was eagerly explaining the new under-garments .
`` See , auntie , all nice scarlet flannel , and a gay little petticoat , and long stockings , oh , so warm !
Phebe and I nearly died laughing when I put this rig on , but I like it ever so much .
The dress is so comfortable , and does n't need any belt or sash , and I can sit without rumpling any trimming , that 's such a comfort !
I like to be tidy , and so , when I wear fussed-up things , I 'm thinking of my clothes all the time , and that 's tiresome .
Do say you like it .
I resolved I would , just to please uncle , for he does know more about health than anyone else , I 'm sure , and I 'd wear a bag if he asked me to do it . ''
`` I do n't ask that , Rose , but I wish you 'd weigh and compare the two suits , and then choose which seems best .
I leave it to your own commonsense , '' answered Dr. Alec , feeling pretty sure he had won .
`` Why , I take this one , of course , uncle .
The other is fashionable , and yes I must say I think it 's pretty but it 's very heavy , and I should have to go round like a walking doll if I wore it .
I 'm much obliged to auntie , but I 'll keep this , please . ''
Rose spoke gently but decidedly , though there was a look of regret when her eye fell on the other suit which Phebe had brought in ; and it was very natural to like to look as other girls did .
Aunt Clara sighed ; Uncle Alec smiled , and said heartily , `` Thank you , dear ; now read this book and you will understand why I ask it of you .
Then , if you like , I 'll give you a new lesson ; you asked for one yesterday , and this is more necessary than French or housekeeping . ''
`` Oh , what ? ''
and Rose caught up the book which Mrs. Clara had thrown down with a disgusted look .
Though Dr. Alec was forty , the boyish love of teasing was not yet dead in him , and , being much elated at his victory , he could not resist the temptation of shocking Mrs. Clara by suggesting dreadful possibilities , so he answered , half in earnest , half in jest , `` Physiology , Rose .
Would n't you like to be a little medical student , with Uncle Doctor for teacher , and be ready to take up his practice when he has to stop ?
If you agree , I 'll hunt up my old skeleton to-morrow . ''
That was too much for Aunt Clara , and she hastily departed , with her mind in a sad state of perturbation about Mrs. Van Tassel 's new costume and Rose 's new study .
Chapter 19 -- Brother Bones Rose accepted her uncle 's offer , as Aunt Myra discovered two or three days later .
Coming in for an early call , and hearing voices in the study , she opened the door , gave a cry and shut it quickly , looking a good deal startled .
The Doctor appeared in a moment , and begged to know what the matter was .
`` How can you ask when that long box looks so like a coffin I thought it was one , and that dreadful thing stared me in the face as I opened the door , '' answered Mrs. Myra , pointing to the skeleton that hung from the chandelier cheerfully grinning at all beholders .
`` This is a medical college where women are freely admitted , so walk in , madam , and join the class if you 'll do me the honour , '' said the Doctor , waving her forward with his politest bow .
`` Do , auntie , it 's perfectly splendid , '' cried Rose 's voice , and Rose 's blooming face was seen behind the ribs of the skeleton , smiling and nodding in the gayest possible manner .
`` What are you doing , child ? ''
demanded Aunt Myra , dropping into a chair and staring about her .
`` Oh , I 'm learning bones to-day , and I like it so much .
There are twelve ribs , you know , and the two lower ones are called floating ribs , because they are not fastened to the breastbone .
That 's why they go in so easily if you lace tight and squeeze the lungs and heart in the let me see , what was that big word oh , I know thoracic cavity , '' and Rose beamed with pride as she aired her little bit of knowledge .
`` Do you think that is a good sort of thing for her to be poking over ?
She is a nervous child , and I 'm afraid it will be bad for her , '' said Aunt Myra , watching Rose as she counted vertebrae , and waggled a hip-joint in its socket with an inquiring expression .
`` An excellent study , for she enjoys it , and I mean to teach her how to manage her nerves so that they wo n't be a curse to her , as many a woman 's become through ignorance or want of thought .
To make a mystery or terror of these things is a mistake , and I mean Rose shall understand and respect her body so well that she wo n't dare to trifle with it as most women do . ''
`` And she really likes it ? ''
`` Very much , auntie !
It 's all so wonderful , and so nicely planned , you can hardly believe what you see .
Just think , there are 600,000,000 air cells in one pair of lungs , and 2,000 pores to a square inch of surface ; so you see what quantities of air we must have , and what care we should take of our skin so all the little doors will open and shut right .
And brains , auntie , you 've no idea how curious they are ; I have n't got to them yet , but I long to , and uncle is going to show me a manikin that you can take to pieces .
Just think how nice it will be to see all the organs in their places ; I only wish they could be made to work as ours do . ''
It was funny to see Aunt Myra 's face as Rose stood before her talking rapidly with one hand laid in the friendliest manner on the skeleton 's shoulder .
Every word both the Doctor and Rose uttered hit the good lady in her weakest spot , and as she looked and listened a long array of bottles and pill-boxes rose up before her , reproaching her with the `` ignorance and want of thought '' that made her what she was , a nervous , dyspeptic , unhappy old woman .
`` Well , I do n't know but you may be right , Alec , only I would n't carry it too far .
Women do n't need much of this sort of knowledge , and are not fit for it .
I could n't bear to touch that ugly thing , and it gives me the creeps to hear about ` organs , ' '' said Aunt Myra , with a sigh and her hand on her side .
`` Would n't it be a comfort to know that your liver was on the right side , auntie , and not on the left ! ''
asked Rose with a naughty laugh in her eyes , for she had lately learnt that Aunt Myra 's liver complaint was not in the proper place .
`` It 's a dying world , child , and it do n't much matter where the pain is , for sooner or later we all drop off and are seen no more , '' was Aunt Myra 's cheerful reply .
`` Well , I intend to know what kills me if I can , and meantime , I 'm going to enjoy myself in spite of a dying world .
I wish you 'd do so too , and come and study with uncle , it would do you good , I 'm sure , '' and Rose went back to counting vertebrae with such a happy face , that Aunt Myra had not the heart to say a word to dampen her ardour .
`` Perhaps it 's as well to let her do what she likes the little while she is with us .
But pray be careful of her , Alec , and not allow her to overwork , '' she whispered as she went out .
`` That 's exactly what I 'm trying to do , ma'am , and rather a hard job I find it , '' he added , as he shut the door , for the dear aunts were dreadfully in his way sometimes .
Half an hour later came another interruption in the shape of Mac , who announced his arrival by the brief but elegant remark , `` Hullo !
what new game is this ? ''
Rose explained , Mac gave a long whistle of surprise , and then took a promenade round the skeleton , observing gravely , `` Brother Bones looks very jolly , but I ca n't say much for his beauty . ''
`` You must n't make fun of him , for he 's a good old fellow , and you 'd be just as ugly if your flesh was off , '' said Rose , defending her new friend with warmth .
`` I dare say , so I 'll keep my flesh on , thank you .
You are so busy you ca n't read to a fellow , I suppose ? ''
asked Mac , whose eyes were better , but still too weak for books .
`` Do n't you want to come and join my class ?
Uncle explains it all to us , and you can take a look at the plates as they come along .
We 'll give up bones today and have eyes instead ; that will be more interesting to you , '' added Rose , seeing no ardent thirst for physiological information in his face .
`` Rose , we must not fly about from one thing to another in this way , '' began Dr. Alec , but she whispered quickly , with a nod towards Mac , whose goggles were turned wistfully in the direction of the forbidden books , `` He 's blue to-day , and we must amuse him ; give a little lecture on eyes , and it will do him good .
No matter about me , uncle . ''
`` Very well ; the class will please be seated , '' and the Doctor gave a sounding rap on the table .
`` Come , sit by me , dear , then we can both see the pictures ; and if your head gets tired you can lie down , '' said Rose , generously opening her little college to a brother , and kindly providing for the weaknesses that all humanity is subject to .
Side by side they sat and listened to a very simple explanation of the mechanism of the eye , finding it as wonderful as a fairy tale , for fine plates illustrated it , and a very willing teacher did his best to make the lesson pleasant .
`` Jove !
if I 'd known what mischief I was doing to that mighty delicate machine of mine , you would n't have caught me reading by firelight , or studying with a glare of sunshine on my book , '' said Mac , peering solemnly at a magnified eye-ball ; then , pushing it away , he added indignantly , `` Why is n't a fellow taught all about his works , and how to manage 'em , and not left to go blundering into all sorts of worries ?
Telling him after he 's down is n't much use , for then he 's found it out himself and wo n't thank you . ''
`` Ah , Mac , that 's just what I keep lecturing about , and people wo n't listen .
You lads need that sort of knowledge so much , and fathers and mothers ought to be able to give it to you .
Few of them are able , and so we all go blundering , as you say .
Less Greek and Latin and more knowledge of the laws of health for my boys , if I had them .
Mathematics are all very well , but morals are better , and I wish , how I wish that I could help teachers and parents to feel it as they ought . ''
`` Some do ; Aunt Jessie and her boys have capital talks , and I wish we could ; but mother 's so busy with her housekeeping , and father with his business , there never seems to be any time for that sort of thing ; even if there was , it do n't seem as if it would be easy to talk to them , because we 've never got into the way of it , you know . ''
Poor Mac was right there , and expressed a want that many a boy and girl feels .
Fathers and mothers are too absorbed in business and housekeeping to study their children , and cherish that sweet and natural confidence which is a child 's surest safeguard , and a parent 's subtlest power .
So the young hearts hide trouble or temptation till the harm is done , and mutual regret comes too late .
Happy the boys and girls who tell all things freely to father or mother , sure of pity , help , and pardon ; and thrice happy the parents who , out of their own experience , and by their own virtues , can teach and uplift the souls for which they are responsible .
This longing stirred in the hearts of Rose and Mac , and by a natural impulse both turned to Dr. Alec , for in this queer world of ours , fatherly and motherly hearts often beat warm and wise in the breasts of bachelor uncles and maiden aunts ; and it is my private opinion that these worthy creatures are a beautiful provision of nature for the cherishing of other people 's children .
They certainly get great comfort out of it , and receive much innocent affection that otherwise would be lost .
Dr. Alec was one of these , and his big heart had room for every one of the eight cousins , especially orphaned Rose and afflicted Mac ; so , when the boy uttered that unconscious reproach to his parents , and Rose added with a sigh , `` It must be beautiful to have a mother ! ''
the good Doctor yearned over them , and , shutting his book with a decided slam , said in that cordial voice of his , `` Now , look here , children , you just come and tell me all your worries , and with God 's help , I 'll settle them for you .
That is what I 'm here for , I believe , and it will be a great happiness to me if you can trust me . ''
`` We can , uncle , and we will ! ''
both answered , with a heartiness that gratified him much .
`` Good !
now school is dismissed , and I advise you to go and refresh your 600,000,000 air cells by a brisk run in the garden .
Come again whenever you like , Mac , and we 'll teach you all we can about your ` works , ' as you call them , so you can keep them running smoothly . ''
`` We 'll come , sir , much obliged , '' and the class in physiology went out to walk .
Mac did come again , glad to find something he could study in spite of his weak eyes , and learned much that was of more value than anything his school had ever taught him .
Of course , the other lads made great fun of the whole thing , and plagued Dr. Alec 's students half out of their lives .
But they kept on persistently , and one day something happened which made the other fellows behave themselves for ever after .
It was a holiday , and Rose up in her room thought she heard the voices of her cousins , so she ran down to welcome them , but found no one there .
`` Never mind , they will be here soon , and then we 'll have a frolic , '' she said to herself , and thinking she had been mistaken she went into the study to wait .
She was lounging over the table looking at a map when an odd noise caught her ear .
A gentle tapping somewhere , and following the sound it seemed to come from the inside of the long case in which the skeleton lived when not professionally engaged .
This case stood upright in a niche between two book-cases at the back of the room , a darkish corner , where Brother Bones , as the boys would call him , was out of the way .
As Rose stood looking in that direction , and wondering if a rat had got shut in , the door of the case swung slowly open , and with a great start she saw a bony arm lifted , and a bony finger beckon to her .
For a minute she was frightened , and ran to the study door with a fluttering heart , but just as she touched the handle a queer , stifled sort of giggle made her stop short and turn red with anger .
She paused an instant to collect herself , and then went softly toward the bony beckoner .
A nearer look revealed black threads tied to the arm and fingers , the ends of threads disappearing through holes bored in the back of the case .
Peeping into the dark recess , she also caught sight of the tip of an elbow covered with a rough gray cloth which she knew very well .
Quick as a flash she understood the joke , her fear vanished , and with a wicked smile , she whipped out her scissors , cut the threads , and the bony arm dropped with a rattle .
Before she could say , `` Come out , Charlie , and let my skeleton alone , '' a sudden irruption of boys , all in a high state of tickle , proclaimed to the hidden rogue that his joke was a failure .
`` I told him not to do it , because it might give you a start , '' explained Archie , emerging from the closet .
`` I had a smelling bottle all ready if she fainted away , '' added Steve , popping up from behind the great chair .
`` It 's too bad of you not to squawk and run ; we depended on it , it 's such fun to howl after you , '' said Will and Geordie , rolling out from under the sofa in a promiscuous heap .
`` You are getting altogether too strong-minded , Rose ; most girls would have been in a jolly twitter to see this old fellow waggling his finger at them , '' complained Charlie , squeezing out from his tight quarters , dusty and disgusted .
`` I 'm used to your pranks now , so I 'm always on the watch and prepared .
But I wo n't have Brother Bones made fun of .
I know uncle would n't like it , so please do n't , '' began Rose just as Dr. Alec came in , and , seeing the state of the case at a glance , he said quietly , `` Hear how I got that skeleton , and then I 'm sure you will treat it with respect . ''
The boys settled down at once on any article of furniture that was nearest and listened dutifully .
`` Years ago , when I was in the hospital , a poor fellow was brought there with a rare and very painful disease .
There was no hope for him , but we did our best , and he was so grateful that when he died he left us his body that we might discover the mysteries of his complaint , and so be able to help others afflicted in the same way .
It did do good , and his brave patience made us remember him long after he was gone .
He thought I had been kind to him , and said to a fellow-student of mine , ` Tell the Doctor I lave him me bones , for I 've nothing else in the wide world , and I 'll nos be wanting 'em at all , at all , when the great pain hat kilt me entirely . '
So that is how they came to be mine , and why I 've kept them carefully , for , though only a poor , ignorant fellow , Mike Nolan did what he could to help others , and prove his gratitude to those who tried to help him . ''
As Dr. Alec paused , Archie closed the door of the case as respectfully as if the mummy of an Egyptian king was inside ; Will and Geordie looked solemnly at one another , evidently much impressed , and Charlie pensively remarked from the coal-hod where he sat , `` I 've often heard of a skeleton in the house , but I think few people have one as useful and as interesting as ours . ''
Chapter 20 -- Under The Mistletoe Rose made Phebe promise that she would bring her stocking into the `` Bower , '' as she called her pretty room , on Christmas morning , because that first delicious rummage loses half its charm if two little night-caps at least do not meet over the treasures , and two happy voices Oh and Ah together .
So when Rose opened her eyes that day they fell upon faithful Phebe , rolled up in a shawl , sitting on the rug before a blazing fire , with her untouched stocking laid beside her .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
cried the little mistress smiling gaily .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
answered the little maid , so heartily that it did one good to hear her .
`` Bring the stockings right away , Phebe , and let 's see what we 've got , '' said Rose , sitting up among the pillows , and looking as eager as a child .
A pair of long knobby hose were laid out upon the coverlet , and their contents examined with delight , though each knew every blessed thing that had been put into the other 's stocking .
Never mind what they were ; it is evident that they were quite satisfactory , for as Rose leaned back , she said , with a luxurious sigh of satisfaction , `` Now , I believe I 've got everything in the world that I want , '' and Phebe answered , smiling over a lapful of treasures , `` This is the most splendid Christmas I ever had since I was born . ''
Then she added with an important air , `` Do wish for something else , because I happen to know of two more presents outside the door this minute . ''
`` Oh , me , what richness ! ''
cried Rose , much excited .
`` I used to wish for a pair of glass slippers like Cinderella 's , but as I ca n't have them , I really do n't know what to ask for . ''
Phebe clapped her hands as she skipped off the bed and ran to the door , saying merrily , `` One of them is for your feet , anyway .
I do n't know what you 'll say to the other , but I think it 's elegant . ''
So did Rose , when a shining pair of skates and a fine sled appeared .
`` Uncle sent those ; I know he did ; and , now I see them , I remember that I did want to skate and coast .
Is n't it a beauty ?
See !
they fit nicely , '' and , sitting on the new sled , Rose tried a skate on her little bare foot , while Phebe stood by admiring the pretty tableau .
`` Now we must hurry and get dressed , for there is a deal to do to-day , and I want to get through in time to try my sled before dinner . ''
`` Gracious me , and I ought to be dusting my parlors this blessed minute ! ''
and mistress and maid separated with such happy faces that anyone would have known what day it was without being told .
`` Birnam Wood has come to Dunsinane , Rosy , '' said Dr. Alec , as he left the breakfast table to open the door for a procession of holly , hemlock , and cedar boughs that came marching up the steps .
Snowballs and `` Merry Christmases ! ''
flew about pretty briskly for several minutes ; then all fell to work trimming the old house , for the family always dined together there on that day .
`` I rode miles and mileses , as Ben says , to get this fine bit , and I 'm going to hang it there as the last touch to the rig-a-madooning , '' said Charlie , as he fastened a dull green branch to the chandelier in the front parlor .
`` It is n't very pretty , '' said Rose , who was trimming the chimney-piece with glossy holly sprays .
`` Never mind that , it 's mistletoe , and anyone who stands under it will get kissed whether they like it or not .
Now 's your time , ladies , '' answered the saucy Prince , keeping his place and looking sentimentally at the girls , who retired precipitately from the dangerous spot .
`` You wo n't catch me , '' said Rose , with great dignity .
`` See if I do n't ! ''
`` I 've got my eye on Phebe , '' observed Will , in a patronising tone that made them all laugh .
`` Bless the dear ; I sha n't mind it a bit , '' answered Phebe , with such a maternal air that Will 's budding gallantry was chilled to death .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough , '' sang Rose .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough ! ''
echoed all the boys , and the teasing ended in the plaintive ballad they all liked so well .
There was plenty of time to try the new skates before dinner , and then Rose took her first lesson on the little bay , which seemed to have frozen over for that express purpose .
She found tumbling down and getting up again warm work for a time , but with six boys to teach her , she managed at last to stand alone ; and , satisfied with that success , she refreshed herself with a dozen grand coasts on the Amazon , as her sled was called .
`` Ah , that fatal colour !
it breaks my heart to see it , '' croaked Aunt Myra , as Rose came down a little late , with cheeks almost as ruddy as the holly berries on the wall , and every curl as smooth as Phebe 's careful hands could make it .
`` I 'm glad to see that Alec allows the poor child to make herself pretty in spite of his absurd notions , '' added Aunt Clara , taking infinite satisfaction in the fact that Rose 's blue silk dress had three frills on it .
`` She 's a very intelligent child , and has a nice little manner of her own , '' observed Aunt Jane , with unusual affability ; for Rose had just handed Mac a screen to guard his eyes from the brilliant fire .
`` If I had a daughter like that to show my Jem when he gets home , I should be a very proud and happy woman , '' thought Aunt Jessie , and then reproached herself for not being perfectly satisfied with her four brave lads .
Aunt Plenty was too absorbed in the dinner to have an eye for anything else ; if she had not been , she would have seen what an effect her new cap produced upon the boys .
The good lady owned that she did `` love a dressy cap , '' and on this occasion her head gear was magnificent ; for the towering structure of lace was adorned with buff ribbons to such an extent that it looked as if a flock of yellow butterflies had settled on her dear old head .
When she trotted about the rooms the ruches quivered , the little bows all stood erect , and the streamers waved in the breeze so comically that it was absolutely necessary for Archie to smother the Brats in the curtains till they had had their first laugh out .
Uncle Mac had brought Fun See to dinner , and it was a mercy he did , for the elder lads found a vent for their merriment in joking the young Chinaman on his improved appearance .
He was in American costume now , with a cropped head , and spoke remarkably good English after six months at school ; but , for all that , his yellow face and beady eyes made a curious contrast to the blonde Campbells all about him .
Will called him the `` Typhoon , '' meaning Tycoon , and the name stuck to him to his great disgust .
Aunt Peace was brought down and set in the chair of state at table , for she never failed to join the family on this day , and sat smiling at them all , `` like an embodiment of Peace on earth , '' Uncle Alec said , as he took his place beside her , while Uncle Mac supported Aunt Plenty at the other end .
`` I ate hardly any breakfast , and I 've done everything I know to make myself extra hungry , but I really do n't think I can eat straight through , unless I burst my buttons off , '' whispered Geordie to Will , as he surveyed the bounteous stores before him with a hopeless sigh .
`` A fellow never knows what he can do till he tries , '' answered Will , attacking his heaped-up plate with an evident intention of doing his duty like a man .
Everybody knows what a Christmas dinner is , so we need waste no words in describing this one , but hasten at once to tell what happened at the end of it .
The end , by the way , was so long in coming that the gas was lighted before dessert was over , for a snow flurry had come on and the wintry daylight faded fast .
But that only made it all the jollier in the warm , bright rooms , full of happy souls .
Everyone was very merry , but Archie seemed particularly uplifted so much so , that Charlie confided to Rose that he was afraid the Chief had been at the decanters .
Rose indignantly denied the insinuation , for when healths were drunk in the good old-fashioned way to suit the elders , she had observed that Aunt Jessie 's boys filled their glasses with water , and had done the same herself in spite of the Prince 's jokes about `` the rosy . ''
But Archie certainly was unusually excited , and when someone remembered that it was the anniversary of Uncle Jem 's wedding , and wished he was there to make a speech , his son electrified the family by trying to do it for him .
It was rather incoherent and flowery , as maiden speeches are apt to be , but the end was considered superb ; for , turning to his mother with a queer little choke in his voice , he said that she `` deserved to be blessed with peace and plenty , to be crowned with roses and lads ' - love , and to receive the cargo of happiness sailing home to her in spite of wind or tide to add another Jem to the family jewels . ''
That allusion to the Captain , now on his return trip , made Mrs. Jessie sob in her napkin , and set the boys cheering .
Then , as if that was not sensation enough , Archie suddenly dashed out of the room , as if he had lost his wits .
`` Too bashful to stay and be praised , '' began Charlie , excusing the peculiarities of his chief as in duty bound .
`` Phebe beckoned to him ; I saw her , '' cried Rose , staring hard at the door .
`` Is it more presents coming ? ''
asked Jamie , just as his brother re-appeared , looking more excited than ever .
`` Yes ; a present for mother , and here it is ! ''
roared Archie , flinging wide the door to let in a tall man , who cried out , `` Where 's my little woman ?
The first kiss for her , then the rest may come on as fast as they like . ''
Before the words were out of his mouth , Mrs. Jessie was half-hidden under his rough great-coat , and four boys were prancing about him clamouring for their turn .
Of course , there was a joyful tumult for a time , during which Rose slipped into the window recess and watched what went on , as if it were a chapter in a Christmas story .
It was good to see bluff Uncle Jem look proudly at his tall son , and fondly hug the little ones .
It was better still to see him shake his brothers ' hands as if he would never leave off , and kiss all the sisters in a way that made even solemn Aunt Myra brighten up for a minute .
But it was best of all to see him finally established in grandfather 's chair , with his `` little woman '' beside him , his three youngest boys in his lap , and Archie hovering over him like a large-sized cherub .
That really was , as Charlie said , `` A landscape to do one 's heart good . ''
`` All hearty and all here , thank God ! ''
said Captain Jem in the first pause that came , as he looked about him with a grateful face .
`` All but Rose , '' answered loyal little Jamie , remembering the absent .
`` Faith , I forgot the child !
Where is George 's little girl ? ''
asked the Captain , who had not seen her since she was a baby .
`` You 'd better say Alec 's great girl , '' said Uncle Mac , who professed to be madly jealous of his brother .
`` Here I am , sir , '' and Rose appeared from behind the curtains , looking as if she had rather have stayed there .
`` Saint George Germain , how the mite has grown ! ''
cried Captain Jem , as he tumbled the boys out of his lap , and rose to greet the tall girl , like a gentleman as he was .
But , somehow , when he shook her hand it looked so small in his big one , and her face reminded him so strongly of his dead brother , that he was not satisfied with so cold a welcome , and with a sudden softening of the keen eyes he took her up in his arms , whispering , with a rough cheek against her smooth one , `` God bless you , child !
forgive me if I forgot you for a minute , and be sure that not one of your kinsfolk is happier to see you here than Uncle Jem . ''
That made it all right ; and when he set her down , Rose 's face was so bright it was evident that some spell had been used to banish the feeling of neglect that had kept her moping behind the curtain so long .
That everyone sat round and heard all about the voyage home how the Captain had set his heart on getting there in time to keep Christmas ; how everything had conspired to thwart his plan ; and how , at the very last minute , he had managed to do it , and had sent a telegram to Archie , bidding him keep the secret , and be ready for his father at any moment , for the ship got into another port , and he might be late .
Then Archie told how that telegram had burnt in his pocket all dinner-time ; how he had to take Phebe into his confidence , and how clever she was to keep the Captain back till the speech was over and he could come in with effect .
The elders would have sat and talked all the evening , but the young folks were bent on having their usual Christmas frolic ; so , after an hour of pleasant chat , they began to get restless , and having consulted together in dumb show , they devised a way to very effectually break up the family council .
Steve vanished , and , sooner than the boys imagined Dandy could get himself up , the skirl of the bag-pipe was heard in the hall , and the bonny piper came to lead Clan Campbell to the revel .
`` Draw it mild , Stevie , my man ; ye play unco weel , but ye mak a most infernal din , '' cried Uncle Jem , with his hands over his ears , for this accomplishment was new to him , and `` took him all aback , '' as he expressed it .
So Steve droned out a Highland reel as softly as he could , and the boys danced it to a circle of admiring relations .
Captain Jem was a true sailor , however , and could not stand idle while anything lively was going on ; so , when the piper 's breath gave out , he cut a splendid pigeon-wing into the middle of the hall , saying , `` Who can dance a Fore and After ? ''
and , waiting for no reply , began to whistle the air so invitingly that Mrs Jessie `` set '' to him laughing like a girl ; Rose and Charlie took their places behind , and away went the four with a spirit and skill that inspired all the rest to `` cut in '' as fast as they could .
That was a grand beginning , and they had many another dance before anyone would own they were tired .
Even Fun See distinguished himself with Aunt Plenty , whom he greatly admired as the stoutest lady in the company ; plumpness being considered a beauty in his country .
The merry old soul professed herself immensely flattered by his admiration , and the boys declared she `` set her cap at him , '' else he would never have dared to catch her under the mistletoe , and , rising on the tips of his own toes , gallantly salute her fat cheek .
How they all laughed at her astonishment , and how Fun 's little black eyes twinkled over this exploit !
Charlie put him up to it , and Charlie was so bent on catching Rose , that he laid all sorts of pitfalls for her , and bribed the other lads to help him .
But Rose was wide-awake , and escaped all his snares , professing great contempt for such foolish customs .
Poor Phebe did not fare so well , and Archie was the only one who took a base advantage of her as she stood innocently offering tea to Aunt Myra , whom she happened to meet just under the fatal bough .
If his father 's arrival had not rather upset him , I doubt if the dignified Chief would have done it , for he apologized at once in the handsomest manner , and caught the tray that nearly dropped from Phebe 's hands .
Jamie boldly invited all the ladies to come and salute him ; and as for Uncle Jem , he behaved as if the entire room was a grove of mistletoe .
Uncle Alec slyly laid a bit of it on Aunt Peace 's cap , and then softly kissed her ; which little joke seemed to please her very much , for she liked to have part in all the home pastimes , and Alec was her favourite nephew .
Charlie alone failed to catch his shy bird , and the oftener she escaped the more determined he was to ensnare her .
When every other wile had been tried in vain , he got Archie to propose a game with forfeits .
`` I understand that dodge , '' thought Rose , and was on her guard so carefully that not one among the pile soon collected belonged to her .
`` Now let us redeem them and play something else , '' said Will , quite unconscious of the deeply-laid plots all about him .
`` One more round and then we will , '' answered the Prince , who had now baited his trap anew .
Just as the question came to Rose , Jamie 's voice was heard in the hall , crying distressfully , `` Oh , come quick , quick ! ''
Rose started up , missed the question , and was greeted with a general cry of `` Forfeit !
forfeit ! ''
in which the little traitor came to join .
`` Now I 've got her , '' thought the young rascal , exulting in his fun-loving soul .
`` Now I 'm lost , '' thought Rose , as she gave up her pin-cushion with a sternly defiant look that would have daunted anyone but the reckless Prince .
In fact , it made even him think twice , and resolve to `` let Rose off easy , '' she had been so clever .
`` Here 's a very pretty pawn , and what shall be done to redeem it ? ''
asked Steve , holding the pin-cushion over Charlie 's head , for he had insisted on being judge , and kept that for the last .
`` Fine or superfine ? ''
`` Super . ''
`` Hum , well , she shall take old Mac under the mistletoe , and kiss him prettily .
Wo n't he be mad , though ? ''
and this bad boy chuckled over the discomfort he had caused two harmless beings .
There was an impressive pause among the young folks in their corner , for they all knew that Mac would `` be mad , '' since he hated nonsense of this sort , and had gone to talk with the elders when the game began .
At this moment he was standing before the fire , listening to a discussion between his uncles and his father , looking as wise as a young owl , and blissfully unconscious of the plots against him .
Charlie expected that Rose would say , `` I wo n't ! ''
therefore he was rather astonished , not to say gratified , when , after a look at the victim , she laughed suddenly , and , going up to the group of gentlemen , drew her uncle Mac under the mistletoe and surprised him with a hearty kiss .
`` Thank you , my dear , '' said the innocent gentleman , looking much pleased at the unexpected honour .
`` Oh , come ; that 's not fair , '' began Charlie .
But Rose cut him short by saying , as she made him a fine courtesy , `` You said ` Old Mac , ' and though it was very disrespectful , I did it .
That was your last chance , sir , and you 've lost it . ''
He certainly had , for , as he spoke , Rose pulled down the mistletoe and threw it into the fire , while the boys jeered at the crestfallen Prince , and exalted quick-witted Rose to the skies .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
asked young Mac , waked out of a brown study by the laughter , in which the elders joined .
But there was a regular shout when , the matter having been explained to him , Mac took a meditative stare at Rose through his goggles , and said in a philosophical tone , `` Well , I do n't think I should have minded much if she had done it . ''
That tickled the lads immensely , and nothing but the appearance of a slight refection would have induced them to stop chaffing the poor Worm , who could not see anything funny in the beautiful resignation he had shown on this trying occasion .
Soon after this , the discovery of Jamie curled up in the sofa corner , as sound asleep as a dormouse , suggested the propriety of going home , and a general move was made .
They were all standing about the hall lingering over the good-nights , when the sound of a voice softly singing `` Sweet Home , '' made them pause and listen .
It was Phebe , poor little Phebe , who never had a home , never knew the love of father or mother , brother or sister ; who stood all alone in the wide world , yet was not sad nor afraid , but took her bits of happiness gratefully , and sung over her work without a thought of discontent .
I fancy the happy family standing there together remembered this and felt the beauty of it , for when the solitary voice came to the burden of its song , other voices took it up and finished it so sweetly , that the old house seemed to echo the word `` Home '' in the ears of both the orphan girls , who had just spent their first Christmas under its hospitable roof .
Chapter 21 -- A Scare `` Brother Alec , you surely do n't mean to allow that child to go out such a bitter cold day as this , '' said Mrs. Myra , looking into the study , where the Doctor sat reading his paper , one February morning .
`` Why not ?
If a delicate invalid like yourself can bear it , surely my hearty girl can , especially as she is dressed for cold weather , '' answered Dr. Alec with provoking confidence .
`` But you have no idea how sharp the wind is .
I am chilled to the very marrow of my bones , '' answered Aunt Myra , chafing the end of her purple nose with her sombre glove .
`` I do n't doubt it , ma'am , if you will wear crape and silk instead of fur and flannel .
Rosy goes out in all weathers , and will be none the worse for an hour 's brisk skating . ''
`` Well , I warn you that you are trifling with the child 's health , and depending too much on the seeming improvement she has made this year .
She is a delicate creature for all that , and will drop away suddenly at the first serious attack , as her poor mother did , '' croaked Aunt Myra , with a despondent wag of the big bonnet .
`` I 'll risk it , '' answered Dr. Alec , knitting his brows , as he always did when any allusion was made to that other Rose .
`` Mark my words , you will repent it , '' and with that awful prophecy , Aunt Myra departed like a black shadow .
Now it must be confessed that among the Doctor 's failings and he had his share was a very masculine dislike of advice which was thrust upon him unasked .
He always listened with respect to the great-aunts , and often consulted Mrs. Jessie ; but the other three ladies tried his patience sorely , by constant warnings , complaints and counsels .
Aunt Myra was an especial trial , and he always turned contrary the moment she began to talk .
He could not help it , and often laughed about it with comic frankness .
Here now was a sample of it , for he had just been thinking that Rose had better defer her run till the wind went down and the sun was warmer .
But Aunt Myra spoke , and he could not resist the temptation to make light of her advice , and let Rose brave the cold .
He had no fear of its harming her , for she went out every day , and it was a great satisfaction to him to see her run down the avenue a minute afterward , with her skates on her arm , looking like a rosy-faced Esquimaux in her seal-skin suit , as she smiled at Aunt Myra stalking along as solemnly as a crow .
`` I hope the child wo n't stay out long , for this wind is enough to chill the marrow in younger bones than Myra 's , '' thought Dr. Alec , half an hour later , as he drove toward the city to see the few patients he had consented to take for old acquaintance ' sake .
The thought returned several times that morning , for it was truly a bitter day , and , in spite of his bear-skin coat , the Doctor shivered .
But he had great faith in Rose 's good sense , and it never occurred to him that she was making a little Casabianca of herself , with the difference of freezing instead of burning at her post .
You see , Mac had made an appointment to meet her at a certain spot , and have a grand skating bout as soon as the few lessons he was allowed were over .
She had promised to wait for him , and did so with a faithfulness that cost her dear , because Mac forgot his appointment when the lessons were done , and became absorbed in a chemical experiment , till a general combustion of gases drove him out of his laboratory .
Then he suddenly remembered Rose , and would gladly have hurried away to her , but his mother forbade his going out , for the sharp wind would hurt his eyes .
`` She will wait and wait , mother , for she always keeps her word , and I told her to hold on till I came , '' explained Mac , with visions of a shivering little figure watching on the windy hill-top .
`` Of course , your uncle wo n't let her go out such a day as this .
If he does , she will have the sense to come here for you , or to go home again when you do n't appear , '' said Aunt Jane , returning to her `` Watts on the Mind . ''
`` I wish Steve would just cut up and see if she 's there , since I ca n't go , '' began Mac , anxiously .
`` Steve wo n't stir a peg , thank you .
He 's got his own toes to thaw out , and wants his dinner , '' answered Dandy , just in from school , and wrestling impatiently with his boots .
So Mac resigned himself , and Rose waited dutifully till dinner-time assured her that her waiting was in vain .
She had done her best to keep warm , had skated till she was tired and hot , then stood watching others till she was chilled ; tried to get up a glow again by trotting up and down the road , but failed to do so , and finally cuddled disconsolately under a pine-tree to wait and watch .
When she at length started for home , she was benumbed with cold , and could hardly make her way against the wind that buffeted the frost-bitten rose most unmercifully .
Dr. Alec was basking in the warmth of the study fire , after his drive , when the sound of a stifled sob made him hurry to the door and look anxiously into the hall .
Rose lay in a shivering bunch near the register , with her things half off , wringing her hands , and trying not to cry with the pain returning warmth brought to her half-frozen fingers .
`` My darling , what is it ? ''
and Uncle Alec had her in his arms in a minute .
`` Mac did n't come I ca n't get warm the fire makes me ache ! ''
and with a long shiver Rose burst out crying , while her teeth chattered , and her poor little nose was so blue , it made one 's heart ache to see it .
In less time than it takes to tell it , Dr. Alec had her on the sofa rolled up in the bear-skin coat , with Phebe rubbing her cold feet while he rubbed the aching hands , and Aunt Plenty made a comfortable hot drink , and Aunt Peace sent down her own foot-warmer and embroidered blanket `` for the dear . ''
Full of remorseful tenderness , Uncle Alec worked over his new patient till she declared she was all right again .
He would not let her get up to dinner , but fed her himself , and then forgot his own while he sat watching her fall into a drowse , for Aunt Plenty 's cordial made her sleepy .
She lay so several hours for the drowse deepened into a heavy sleep , and Uncle Alec , still at his post , saw with growing anxiety that a feverish colour began to burn in her cheeks , that her breathing was quick and uneven , and now and then she gave a little moan , as if in pain .
Suddenly she woke up with a start , and seeing Aunt Plenty bending over her , put out her arms like a sick child , saying wearily , `` Please , could I go to bed ? ''
`` The best place for you , deary .
Take her right up , Alec ; I 've got the hot water ready , and after a nice bath , she shall have a cup of my sage tea , and be rolled up in blankets to sleep off her cold , '' answered the old lady , cheerily , as she bustled away to give orders .
`` Are you in pain , darling ? ''
asked Uncle Alec , as he carried her up .
`` My side aches when I breathe , and I feel stiff and queer ; but it is n't bad , so do n't be troubled , uncle , '' whispered Rose , with a little hot hand against his cheek .
But the poor doctor did look troubled , and had cause to do so , for just then Rose tried to laugh at Dolly charging into the room with a warming-pan , but could not , for the sharp pain took her breath away and made her cry out .
`` Pleurisy , '' sighed Aunt Plenty , from the depths of the bath-tub .
`` Pewmonia ! ''
groaned Dolly , burrowing among the bedclothes with the long-handled pan , as if bent on fishing up that treacherous disease .
`` Oh , is it bad ? ''
asked Phebe , nearly dropping a pail of hot water in her dismay , for she knew nothing of sickness , and Dolly 's suggestion had a peculiarly dreadful sound to her .
`` Hush ! ''
ordered the Doctor , in a tone that silenced all further predictions , and made everyone work with a will .
`` Make her as comfortable as you can , and when she is in her little bed I 'll come and say good-night , '' he added , when the bath was ready and the blankets browning nicely before the fire .
Then he went away to talk quite cheerfully to Aunt Peace about its being `` only a chill '' ; after which he tramped up and down the hall , pulling his beard and knitting his brows , sure signs of great inward perturbation .
`` I thought it would be too good luck to get through the year without a downfall .
Confound my perversity !
Why could n't I take Myra 's advice and keep Rose at home .
It 's not fair that the poor child should suffer for my sinful over-confidence .
She shall not suffer for it !
Pneumonia , indeed !
I defy it , '' and he shook his fist in the ugly face of an Indian idol that happened to be before him , as if that particularly hideous god had some spite against his own little goddess .
In spite of his defiance his heart sunk when he saw Rose again , for the pain was worse , and the bath and blankets , the warming-pan and piping-hot sage tea , were all in vain .
For several hours there was no rest for the poor child , and all manner of gloomy forebodings haunted the minds of those who hovered about her with faces full of the tenderest anxiety .
In the midst of the worst paroxysm Charlie came to leave a message from his mother , and was met by Phebe coming despondently downstairs with a mustard plaster that had brought no relief .
`` What the dickens is the matter ?
You look as dismal as a tombstone , '' he said , as she held up her hand to stop his lively whistling .
`` Miss Rose is dreadful sick . ''
`` The deuce she is ! ''
`` Do n't swear , Mr. Charlie ; she really is , and it 's Mr. Mac 's fault , '' and Phebe told the sad tale in a few sharp words , for she felt at war with the entire race of boys at that moment .
`` I 'll give it to him , make your mind easy about that , '' said Charlie , with an ominous doubling up of his fist .
`` But Rose is n't dangerously ill , is she ? ''
he added anxiously , as Aunt Plenty was seen to trot across the upper hall , shaking a bottle violently as she went .
`` Oh , but she is though .
The Doctor do n't say much , but he do n't call it a ` chill ' any more .
It 's ` pleurisy ' now , and I 'm so afraid it will be pewmonia to-morrow , '' answered Phebe , with a despairing glance at the plaster .
Charlie exploded into a stifled laugh at the new pronunciation of pneumonia , to Phebe 's great indignation .
`` How can you have the heart to do it , and she in such horrid pain ?
Hark to that , and then laugh if you darst , '' she said with a tragic gesture , and her black eyes full of fire .
Charlie listened and heard little moans that went to his heart and made his face as sober as Phebe 's .
`` O uncle , please stop the pain , and let me rest a minute !
Do n't tell the boys I was n't brave .
I try to bear it , but it 's so sharp I ca n't help crying . ''
Neither could Charlie , when he heard the broken voice say that ; but , boy-like , he would n't own it , and said pettishly , as he rubbed his sleeve across his eyes , `` Do n't hold that confounded thing right under my nose ; the mustard makes my eyes smart . ''
`` Do n't see how it can , when it has n't any more strength in it than meal .
The Doctor said so , and I 'm going to get some better , '' began Phebe , not a bit ashamed of the great tears that were bedewing the condemned plaster .
`` I 'll go ! ''
and Charlie was off like a shot , glad of an excuse to get out of sight for a few minutes .
When he came back all inconvenient emotion had been disposed of , and , having delivered a box of the hottest mustard procurable for money , he departed to `` blow up '' Mac , that being his next duty in his opinion .
He did it so energetically and thoroughly that the poor Worm was cast into the depths of remorseful despair , and went to bed that evening feeling that he was an outcast from among men , and bore the mark of Cain upon his brow .
Thanks to the skill of the Doctor , and the devotion of his helpers , Rose grew easier about midnight , and all hoped that the worst was over .
Phebe was making tea by the study fire , for the Doctor had forgotten to eat and drink since Rose was ill , and Aunt Plenty insisted on his having a `` good cordial dish of tea '' after his exertions .
A tap on the window startled Phebe , and , looking up , she saw a face peering in .
She was not afraid , for a second look showed her that it was neither ghost nor burglar , but Mac , looking pale and wild in the wintry moonlight .
`` Come and let a fellow in , '' he said in a low tone , and when he stood in the hall he clutched Phebe 's arm , whispering gruffly , `` How is Rose ? ''
`` Thanks be to goodness , she 's better , '' answered Phebe , with a smile that was like broad sunshine to the poor lad 's anxious heart .
`` And she will be all right again to-morrow ? ''
`` Oh , dear no !
Dolly says she 's sure to have rheumatic fever , if she do n't have noo-monia ! ''
answered Phebe , careful to pronounce the word rightly this time .
Down went Mac 's face , and remorse began to gnaw at him again as he gave a great sigh and said doubtfully , `` I suppose I could n't see her ? ''
`` Of course not at this time of night , when we want her to go to sleep ! ''
Mac opened his mouth to say something more , when a sneeze came upon him unawares , and a loud `` Ah rash hoo ! ''
awoke the echoes of the quiet house .
`` Why did n't you stop it ? ''
said Phebe reproachfully .
`` I dare say you 've waked her up . ''
`` Did n't know it was coming .
Just my luck ! ''
groaned Mac , turning to go before his unfortunate presence did more harm .
But a voice from the stair-head called softly , `` Mac , come up ; Rose wants to see you . ''
Up he went , and found his uncle waiting for him .
`` What brings you here at this hour , my boy ? ''
asked the Doctor in a whisper .
`` Charlie said it was all my fault , and if she died I 'd killed her .
I could n't sleep , so I came to see how she was , and no one knows it but Steve , '' he said with such a troubled face and voice that the Doctor had not the heart to blame him .
Before he could say anything more a feeble voice called `` Mac ! ''
and with a hasty `` Stay a minute just to please her , and then slip away , for I want her to sleep , '' the Doctor led him into the room .
The face on the pillow looked very pale and childish , and the smile that welcomed Mac was very faint , for Rose was spent with pain , yet could not rest till she had said a word of comfort to her cousin .
`` I knew your funny sneeze , and I guessed that you came to see how I did , though it is very late .
Do n't be worried , I 'm better now , and it is my fault I was ill , not yours ; for I need n't have been so silly as to wait in the cold just because I said I would . ''
Mac hastened to explain , to load himself with reproaches , and to beg her not to die on any account , for Charlie 's lecture had made a deep impression on the poor boy 's mind .
`` I did n't know there was any danger of my dying , '' and Rose looked up at him with a solemn expression in her great eyes .
`` Oh , I hope not ; but people do sometimes go suddenly , you know , and I could n't rest till I 'd asked you to forgive me , '' faltered Mac , thinking that Rose looked very like an angel already , with the golden hair loose on the pillow , and the meekness of suffering on her little white face .
`` I do n't think I shall die ; uncle wo n't let me ; but if I do , remember I forgave you . ''
She looked at him with a tender light in her eyes , and , seeing how pathetic his dumb grief was , she added softly , drawing his head down , `` I would n't kiss you under the mistletoe , but I will now , for I want you to be sure I do forgive and love you just the same . ''
That quite upset poor Mac ; he could only murmur his thanks and get out of the room as fast as possible , to grope his way to the couch at the far end of the hall , and lie there till he fell asleep , worn out with trying not to `` make a baby '' of himself .
Chapter 22 -- Something to do Whatever danger there might have been from the effects of that sudden chill , it was soon over , though , of course , Aunt Myra refused to believe it , and Dr. Alec cherished his girl with redoubled vigilance and tenderness for months afterward .
Rose quite enjoyed being sick , because as soon as the pain ended the fun began , and for a week or two she led the life of a little princess secluded in the Bower , while every one served , amused , and watched over her in the most delightful manner .
But the doctor was called away to see an old friend , who was dangerously ill , and then Rose felt like a young bird deprived of its mother 's sheltering wing ; especially on one afternoon when the aunts were taking their naps , and the house was very still within while snow fell softly without .
`` I 'll go and hunt up Phebe , she is always nice and busy , and likes to have me help her .
If Dolly is out of the way we can make caramels and surprise the boys when they come , '' Rose said to herself , as she threw down her book and felt ready for society of some sort .
She took the precaution to peep through the slide before she entered the kitchen , for Dolly allowed no messing when she was round .
But the coast was clear , and no one but Phebe appeared , sitting at the table with her head on her arms apparently asleep .
Rose was just about to wake her with a `` Boo ! ''
when she lifted her head , dried her wet eyes with her blue apron , and fell to work with a resolute face on something she was evidently much interested in .
Rose could not make out what it was , and her curiosity was greatly excited , for Phebe was writing with a sputtering pen on some bits of brown paper , apparently copying something from a little book .
`` I must know what the dear thing is about , and why she cried , and then set her lips tight and went to work with all her might , '' thought Rose , forgetting all about the caramels , and , going round to the door , she entered the kitchen , saying pleasantly , `` Phebe , I want something to do .
Ca n't you let me help you about anything , or shall I be in the way ? ''
`` Oh , dear no , miss ; I always love to have you round when things are tidy .
What would you like to do ? ''
answered Phebe , opening a drawer as if about to sweep her own affairs out of sight ; but Rose stopped her , exclaiming , like a curious child , `` Let me see !
What is it ?
I wo n't tell if you 'd rather not have Dolly know . ''
`` I 'm only trying to study a bit ; but I 'm so stupid I do n't get on much , '' answered the girl reluctantly , permitting her little mistress to examine the poor contrivances she was trying to work with .
A broken slate that had blown off the roof , an inch or two of pencil , an old almanac for a reader , several bits of brown or yellow paper ironed smoothly and sewn together for a copy-book , and the copies sundry receipts written in Aunt Plenty 's neat hand .
These , with a small bottle of ink and a rusty pen , made up Phebe 's outfit , and it was little wonder that she did not `` get on '' in spite of the patient persistence that dried the desponding tears and drove along the sputtering pen with a will .
`` You may laugh if you want to , Miss Rose , I know my things are queer , and that 's why I hide 'em ; but I do n't mind since you 've found me out , and I ai n't a bit ashamed except of being so backward at my age , '' said Phebe humbly , though her cheeks grew redder as she washed out some crooked capitals with a tear or two not yet dried upon the slate .
`` Laugh at you !
I feel more like crying to think what a selfish girl I am , to have loads of books and things and never remember to give you some .
Why did n't you come and ask me , and not go struggling along alone in this way ?
It was very wrong of you , Phebe , and I 'll never forgive you if you do so again , '' answered Rose , with one hand on Phebe 's shoulder , while the other gently turned the leaves of the poor little copy-book .
`` I did n't like to ask for anything more when you are so good to me all the time , miss , dear , '' began Phebe , looking up with grateful eyes .
`` O you proud thing !
just as if it was n't fun to give away , and I had the best of it .
Now , see here , I 've got a plan and you must n't say no , or I shall scold .
I want something to do , and I 'm going to teach you all I know ; it wo n't take long , '' and Rose laughed as she put her arm around Phebe 's neck , and patted the smooth dark head with the kind little hand that so loved to give .
`` It would be just heavenly ! ''
and Phebe 's face shone at the mere idea ; but fell again as she added wistfully , `` Only I 'm afraid I ought not to let you do it , Miss Rose .
It will take time , and maybe the Doctor would n't like it . ''
`` He did n't want me to study much , but he never said a word about teaching , and I do n't believe he will mind a bit .
Anyway , we can try it till he comes , so pack up your things and go right to my room and we 'll begin this very day ; I 'd truly like to do it , and we 'll have nice times , see if we do n't ! ''
cried Rose eagerly .
It was a pretty sight to see Phebe bundle her humble outfit into her apron , and spring up as if the desire of her heart had suddenly been made a happy fact to her ; it was a still prettier sight to see Rose run gaily on before , smiling like a good fairy as she beckoned to the other , singing as she went , `` The way into my parlour is up a winding stair , And many are the curious things I 'll show you when you 're there .
Will you , will you walk in , Phebe dear ? ''
`` Oh , wo n't I ! ''
answered Phebe fervently , adding , as they entered the Bower , `` You are the dearest spider that ever was , and I 'm the happiest fly . ''
`` I 'm going to be very strict , so sit down in that chair and do n't say a word till school is ready to open , '' ordered Rose , delighted with the prospect of such a useful and pleasant `` something to do . ''
So Phebe sat demurely in her place while her new teacher laid forth books and slates , a pretty inkstand and a little globe ; hastily tore a bit off her big sponge , sharpened pencils with more energy than skill , and when all was ready gave a prance of satisfaction that set the pupil laughing .
`` Now the school is open , and I shall hear you read , so that I may know in which class to put you , Miss Moore , '' began Rose with great dignity , as she laid a book before her scholar , and sat down in the easy chair with a long rule in her hand .
Phebe did pretty well , only tripping now and then over a hard word , and pronouncing identical `` identickle , '' in a sober way that tickled Rose , though never a smile betrayed her .
The spelling lesson which followed was rather discouraging ; Phebe 's ideas of geography were very vague , and grammar was nowhere , though the pupil protested that she tried so hard to `` talk nice like educated folks '' that Dolly called her `` a stuck-up piece who did n't know her place . ''
`` Dolly 's an old goose , so do n't you mind her , for she will say ` nater , ' ` vittles , ' and ` doos ' as long as she lives , and insist that they are right .
You do talk very nicely , Phebe , I 've observed it , and grammar will help you , and show you some things are right and others ai n't are not , I mean , '' added Rose , correcting herself , and feeling that she must mind her own parts of speech if she was to serve as an example for Phebe .
When the arithmetic came , the little teacher was surprised to find her scholar quicker in some things than herself , for Phebe had worked away at the columns in the butcher 's and baker 's books till she could add so quickly and correctly that Rose was amazed , and felt that in this branch the pupil would soon excel the teacher if she kept on at the same pace .
Her praise cheered Phebe immensely , and they went bravely on , both getting so interested that time flew unheeded till Aunt Plenty appeared , exclaiming , as she stared at the two heads bent over one slate , `` Bless my heart , what is going on now ? ''
`` School , aunty .
I 'm teaching Phebe , and it 's great fun ! ''
cried Rose , looking up with a bright face .
But Phebe 's was brighter , though she added with a wistful look , `` Maybe I ought to have asked leave first ; only when Miss Rose proposed this , I was so happy I forgot to .
Shall I stop , ma'am ? ''
`` Of course not , child ; I 'm glad to see you fond of your book , and to find Rose helping you along .
My blessed mother used to sit at work with her maids about her , teaching them many a useful thing in the good old fashion that 's gone by now .
Only do n't neglect your work , dear , or let the books interfere with the duties . ''
As Aunt Plenty spoke , with her kind old face beaming approvingly upon the girls , Phebe glanced at the clock , saw that it pointed to five , knew that Dolly would soon be down , expecting to find preparations for supper under way , and , hastily dropping her pencil , she jumped up , saying , `` Please , can I go ?
I 'll clear up after I 've done my chores . ''
`` School is dismissed , '' answered Rose , and with a grateful `` Thank you , heaps and heaps ! ''
Phebe ran away singing the multiplication table as she set the tea ditto .
That was the way it began , and for a week the class of one went on with great pleasure and profit to all concerned ; for the pupil proved a bright one , and came to her lessons as to a feast , while the young teacher did her best to be worthy the high opinion held of her , for Phebe firmly believed that Miss Rose knew everything in the way of learning .
Of course the lads found out what was going on , and chaffed the girls about the `` Seminary , '' as they called the new enterprise ; but they thought it a good thing on the whole , kindly offered to give lessons in Greek and Latin gratis , and decided among themselves that `` Rose was a little trump to give the Phebe-bird such a capital boost . ''
Rose herself had some doubts as to how it would strike her uncle , and concocted a wheedlesome speech which should at once convince him that it was the most useful , wholesome , and delightful plan ever devised .
But she got no chance to deliver her address , for Dr. Alec came upon her so unexpectedly that it went out of her head entirely .
She was sitting on the floor in the library , poring over a big book laid open in her lap , and knew nothing of the long-desired arrival till two large , warm hands met under her chin and gently turned her head back , so that someone could kiss her heartily on either cheek , while a fatherly voice said , half reproachfully , `` Why is my girl brooding over a dusty Encyclopedia when she ought to be running to meet the old gentleman who could n't get on another minute without her ? ''
`` O uncle !
I 'm so glad !
and so sorry !
Why did n't you let us know what time you 'd be here , or call out the minute you came ?
Have n't I been home-sick for you ?
and now I 'm so happy to have you back I could hug your dear old curly head off , '' cried Rose , as the Encyclopedia went down with a bang , and she up with a spring that carried her into Dr. Alec 's arms , to be kept there in the sort of embrace a man gives to the dearest creature the world holds for him .
Presently he was in his easy chair with Rose upon his knee smiling up in his face and talking as fast as her tongue could go , while he watched her with an expression of supreme content , as he stroked the smooth round cheek , or held the little hand in his , rejoicing to see how rosy was the one , how plump and strong the other .
`` Have you had a good time ?
Did you save the poor lady ?
Are n't you glad to be home again with your girl to torment you ? ''
`` Yes , to all those questions .
Now tell me what you 've been at , little sinner ?
Aunty Plen says you want to consult me about some new and remarkable project which you have dared to start in my absence . ''
`` She did n't tell you , I hope ? ''
`` Not a word more expect that you were rather doubtful how I 'd take it , and so wanted to ` fess ' yourself and get round me as you always try to do , though you do n't often succeed .
Now , then , own up and take the consequences . ''
So Rose told about her school in her pretty , earnest way , dwelling on Phebe 's hunger for knowledge , and the delight it was to help her , adding , with a wise nod , `` And it helps me too , uncle , for she is so quick and eager I have to do my best or she will get ahead of me in some things .
To-day , now , she had the word ` cotton ' in a lesson and asked all about it , and I was ashamed to find I really knew so little that I could only say that it was a plant that grew down South in a kind of a pod , and was made into cloth .
That 's what I was reading up when you came , and to-morrow I shall tell her all about it , and indigo too .
So you see it teaches me also , and is as good as a general review of what I 've learned , in a pleasanter way than going over it alone . ''
`` You artful little baggage !
that 's the way you expect to get round me , is it ?
That 's not studying , I suppose ? ''
`` No , sir , it 's teaching ; and please , I like it much better than having a good time by myself .
Besides , you know , I adopted Phebe and promised to be a sister to her , so I am bound to keep my word , am I not ? ''
answered Rose , looking both anxious and resolute as she waited for her sentence .
Dr. Alec was evidently already won , for Rose had described the old slate and brown paper copy-book with pathetic effect , and the excellent man had not only decided to send Phebe to school long before the story was done , but reproached himself for forgetting his duty to one little girl in his love for another .
So when Rose tried to look meek and failed utterly , he laughed and pinched her cheek , and answered in that genial way which adds such warmth and grace to any favour , `` I have n't the slightest objection in the world .
In fact , I was beginning to think I might let you go at your books again , moderately , since you are so well ; and this is an excellent way to try your powers .
Phebe is a brave , bright lass , and shall have a fair chance in the world , if we can give it to her , so that if she ever finds her friends they need not be ashamed of her . ''
`` I think she has found some already , '' began Rose eagerly .
`` Hey ?
what ?
has anyone turned up since I 've been gone ? ''
asked Dr. Alec quickly , for it was a firm belief in the family that Phebe would prove to be `` somebody '' sooner or later .
`` No , her best friend turned up when you came home , uncle , '' answered Rose with an approving pat , adding gratefully , `` I ca n't half thank you for being so good to my girl , but she will , because I know she is going to make a woman to be proud of , she 's so strong and true , and loving . ''
`` Bless your dear heart , I have n't begun to do anything yet , more shame to me !
But I 'm going at it now , and as soon as she gets on a bit , she shall go to school as long as she likes .
How will that do for a beginning ? ''
`` It will be ` just heavenly , ' as Phebe says , for it is the wish of her life to ` get lots of schooling , ' and she will be too happy when I tell her .
May I , please ?
it will be so lovely to see the dear thing open her big eyes and clap her hands at the splendid news . ''
`` No one shall have a finger in this nice little pie ; you shall do it all yourself , only do n't go too fast , or make too many castles in the air , my dear ; for time and patience must go into this pie of ours if it is to turn out well . ''
`` Yes , uncle , only when it is opened wo n't ` the birds begin to sing ? '' '
laughed Rose , taking a turn about the room as a vent for the joyful emotions that made her eyes shine .
All of a sudden she stopped and asked soberly , `` If Phebe goes to school who will do her work ?
I 'm willing , if I can . ''
`` Come here and I 'll tell you a secret .
Dolly 's ` bones ' are getting so troublesome , and her dear old temper so bad , that the aunts have decided to pension her off and let her go and live with her daughter , who has married very well .
I saw her this week , and she 'd like to have her mother come , so in the spring we shall have a grand change , and get a new cook and chamber-girl if any can be found to suit our honoured relatives . ''
`` Oh , me !
how can I ever get on without Phebe ?
Could n't she stay , just so I could see her ?
I 'd pay her board rather than have her go , I 'm so fond of her . ''
How Dr. Alec laughed at that proposal , and how satisfied Rose was when he explained that Phebe was still to be her maid , with no duties except such as she could easily perform between school-hours .
`` She is a proud creature , for all her humble ways , and even from us would not take a favour if she did not earn it somewhere .
So this arrangement makes it all square and comfortable , you see , and she will pay for the schooling by curling these goldilocks a dozen times a day if you let her . ''
`` Your plans are always so wise and kind !
That 's why they work so well , I suppose , and why people let you do what you like with them .
I really do n't see how other girls get along without an Uncle Alec ! ''
answered Rose , with a sigh of pity for those who had missed so great a blessing .
When Phebe was told the splendid news , she did not `` stand on her head with rapture , '' as Charlie prophesied she would , but took it quietly , because it was such a happy thing she had no words `` big and beautiful enough to thank them in , '' she said ; but every hour of her day was brightened by this granted wish , and dedicated to the service of those who gave it .
Her heart was so full of content that if overflowed in music , and the sweet voice singing all about the house gave thanks so blithely that no other words were needed .
Her willing feet were never tired of taking steps for those who had smoothed her way ; her skilful hands were always busy in some labour of love for them , and on the face fast growing in comeliness there was an almost womanly expression of devotion , which proved how well Phebe had already learned one of life 's great lessons gratitude .
Chapter 23 -- Peace-Making `` Steve , I want you to tell me something , '' said Rose to Dandy , who was making faces at himself in the glass , while he waited for an answer to the note he brought from his mother to Aunt Plenty .
`` P'raps I will , and p ` raps I wo n't .
What is it ? ''
`` Have n't Arch and Charlie quarrelled ? ''
`` Dare say ; we fellows are always having little rows , you know .
I do believe a sty is coming on my star-board eye , '' and Steve affected to be absorbed in a survey of his yellow lashes .
`` No , that wo n't do ; I want to know all about it ; for I 'm sure something more serious than a ` little row ' is the matter .
Come , please tell me , Stenie , there 's a dear . ''
`` Botheration !
you do n't want me to turn telltale , do you ? ''
growled Steve , pulling his top-knot , as he always did when perplexed .
`` Yes , I do , '' was Rose 's decided answer for she saw from his manner that she was right , and determined to have the secret out of him if coaxing would do it .
`` I do n't wish you to tell things to everyone , of course , but to me you may , and you must , because I have a right to know .
You boys need somebody to look after you , and I 'm going to do it , for girls are nice peacemakers , and know how to manage people .
Uncle said so , and he is never wrong . ''
Steve was about to indulge in a derisive hoot at the idea of her looking after them , but a sudden thought restrained him , and suggested a way in which he could satisfy Rose , and better himself at the same time .
`` What will you give me if I 'll tell you every bit about it ? ''
he asked , with a sudden red in his cheeks and an uneasy look in his eyes , for he was half ashamed of the proposition .
`` What do you want ? ''
and Rose looked up rather surprised at his question .
`` I 'd like to borrow some money .
I should n't think of asking you , only Mac never has a cent .
since he 's set up his old chemical shop , where he 'll blow himself to bits some day , and you and uncle will have the fun of putting him together again , '' and Steve tried to look as if the idea amused him .
`` I 'll lend it to you with pleasure , so tell away , '' said Rose , bound to get at the secret .
Evidently much relieved by the promise , Steve set his top-knot cheerfully erect again , and briefly stated the case .
`` As you say , it 's all right to tell you , but do n't let the boys know I blabbed , or Prince will take my head off .
You see , Archie do n't like some of the fellows Charlie goes with , and cuts 'em .
That makes Prince mad , and he holds on just to plague Arch , so they do n't speak to one another , if they can help it , and that 's the row . ''
`` Are those boys bad ? ''
asked Rose , anxiously .
`` Guess not , only rather wild .
They are older than our fellows , but they like Prince , he 's such a jolly boy ; sings so well , dances jigs and breakdowns , you know , and plays any game that 's going .
He beat Morse at billiards , and that 's something to brag of , for Morse thinks he knows everything .
I saw the match , and it was great fun ! ''
Steve got quite excited over the prowess of Charlie , whom he admired immensely , and tried to imitate .
Rose did not know half the danger of such gifts and tastes as Charlie 's , but felt instinctively that something must be wrong if Archie disapproved .
`` If Prince likes any billiard-playing boy better than Archie , I do n't think much of his sense , '' she said severely .
`` Of course he does n't ; but , you see , Charlie and Arch are both as proud as they can be , and wo n't give in .
I suppose Arch is right , but I do n't blame Charlie a bit for liking to be with the others sometimes , they are such a jolly set , '' and Steve shook his head morally , even while his eye twinkled over the memory of some of the exploits of the `` jolly set . ''
`` Oh , dear me ! ''
sighed Rose , `` I do n't see what I can do about it , but I wish the boys would make up , for Prince ca n't come to any harm with Archie , he 's so good and sensible . ''
`` That 's the trouble ; Arch preaches , and Prince wo n't stand it .
He told Arch he was a prig and a parson , and Arch told him he was n't a gentleman .
My boots !
were n't they both mad , though !
I thought for a minute they 'd pitch into one another and have it out .
Wish they had , and not gone stalking round stiff and glum ever since .
Mac and I settle our rows with a bat or so over the head , and then we are all right . ''
Rose could n't help laughing as Steve sparred away at a fat sofa-pillow , to illustrate his meaning ; and , having given it several scientific whacks , he pulled down his cuffs and smiled upon her with benign pity for her feminine ignorance of this summary way of settling a quarrel .
`` What droll things boys are ! ''
she said , with a mixture of admiration and perplexity in her face , which Steve accepted as a compliment to his sex .
`` We 're a pretty clever invention , miss , and you ca n't get on without us , '' he answered , with his nose in the air .
Then , taking a sudden plunge into business , he added , `` How about that bit of money you were going to lend me ?
I 've told , now you pay up . ''
`` Of course I will !
How much do you want ? ''
and Rose pulled out her purse .
`` Could you spare five dollars ?
I want to pay a little debt of honour that is rather pressing , '' and Steve put on a mannish air that was comical to see .
`` Are n't all debts honourable ? ''
asked innocent Rose .
`` Yes , of course ; but this is a bet I made , and it ought to be settled up at once , '' began Steve , finding it awkward to explain .
`` Oh , do n't bet , it 's not right , and I know your father would n't like it .
Promise you wo n't do so again ; please promise ! ''
and Rose held fast the hand into which she had just put the money .
`` Well , I wo n't .
It 's worried me a good deal , but I was joked into it .
Much obliged , cousin , I 'm all right now , '' and Steve departed hastily .
Having decided to be a peace-maker , Rose waited for an opportunity , and very soon it came .
She was spending the day with Aunt Clara , who had been entertaining some young guests , and invited Rose to meet them , for she thought it high time her niece conquered her bashfulness and saw a little of society .
Dinner was over , and everyone had gone .
Aunt Clara was resting before going out to an evening party , and Rose was waiting for Charlie to come and take her home .
She sat alone in the elegant drawing-room , feeling particularly nice and pretty , for she had her best frock on , a pair of gold bands her aunt had just given her , and a tea-rose bud in her sash , like the beautiful Miss Van Tassel , whom everyone admired .
She had spread out her little skirts to the best advantage , and , leaning back in a luxurious chair , sat admiring her own feet in new slippers with rosettes almost as big as dahlias .
Presently Charlie came lounging in , looking rather sleepy and queer , Rose thought .
On seeing her , however , he roused up and said with a smile that ended in a gape , `` I thought you were with mother , so I took forty winks after I got those girls off .
Now , I 'm at your service , Rosamunda , whenever you like . ''
`` You look as if your head ached .
If it does , do n't mind me .
I 'm not afraid to run home alone , it 's so early , '' answered Rose , observing the flushed cheeks and heavy eyes of her cousin .
`` I think I see myself letting you do it .
Champagne always makes my headache , but the air will set me up . ''
`` Why do you drink it , then ? ''
asked Rose , anxiously .
`` Ca n't help it , when I 'm host .
Now , do n't you begin to lecture ; I 've had enough of Archie 's old-fashioned notions , and I do n't want any more . ''
Charlie 's tone was decidedly cross , and his whole manner so unlike his usual merry good-nature , that Rose felt crushed , and answered meekly , `` I was n't going to lecture , only when people like other people , they ca n't bear to see them suffer pain . ''
That brought Charlie round at once , for Rose 's lips trembled a little , though she tried to hide it by smelling the flower she pulled from her sash .
`` I 'm a regular bear , and I beg your pardon for being so cross , Rosy , '' he said in the old frank way that was so winning .
`` I wish you 'd beg Archie 's too , and be good friends again .
You never were cross when he was your chum , '' Rose said , looking up at him as he bent toward her from the low chimney-piece , where he had been leaning his elbows .
In an instant he stood as stiff and straight as a ramrod , and the heavy eyes kindled with an angry spark as he said , in his high and mighty manner , `` You 'd better not meddle with what you do n't understand , cousin . ''
`` But I do understand , and it troubles me very much to see you so cold and stiff to one another .
You always used to be together , and now you hardly speak .
You are so ready to beg my pardon I do n't see why you ca n't beg Archie 's , if you are in the wrong . ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
this was so short and sharp that Rose started , and Charlie added in a calmer but still very haughty tone : `` A gentleman always begs pardon when he has been rude to a lady , but one man does n't apologize to another man who has insulted him . ''
`` Oh , my heart , what a pepperpot ! ''
thought Rose , and , hoping to make him laugh , she added slyly : `` I was not talking about men , but boys , and one of them a Prince , who ought to set a good example to his subjects . ''
But Charlie would not relent , and tried to turn the subject by saying gravely , as he unfastened the little gold ring from his watch-guard , `` I 've broken my word , so I want to give this back and free you from the bargain .
I 'm sorry , but I think it a foolish promise , and do n't intend to keep it .
Choose a pair of ear-rings to suit yourself , as my forfeit .
You have a right to wear them now . ''
`` No , I can only wear one , and that is no use , for Archie will keep his word I 'm sure ! ''
Rose was so mortified and grieved at this downfall of her hopes that she spoke sharply , and would not take the ring the deserter offered her .
He shrugged his shoulders , and threw it into her lap , trying to look cool and careless , but failing entirely , for he was ashamed of himself , and out of sorts generally .
Rose wanted to cry , but pride would not let her , and , being very angry , she relieved herself by talk instead of tears .
Looking pale and excited , she rose out of her chair , cast away the ring , and said in a voice that she vainly tried to keep steady , `` You are not at all the boy I thought you were , and I do n't respect you one bit .
I 've tried to help you be good , but you wo n't let me , and I shall not try any more .
You talk a great deal about being a gentleman , but you are not , for you 've broken your word , and I can never trust you again .
I do n't wish you to go home with me .
I 'd rather have Mary .
Good-night . ''
And with that last dreadful blow , Rose walked out of the room , leaving Charlie as much astonished as if one of his pet pigeons had flown in his face and pecked at him .
She was so seldom angry , that when her temper did get the better of her it made a deep impression on the lads , for it was generally a righteous sort of indignation at some injustice or wrong-doing , not childish passion .
Her little thunderstorm cleared off in a sob or two as she put on her things in the entry-closet , and when she emerged she looked the brighter for the shower .
A hasty good-night to Aunt Clara now under the hands of the hairdresser and then she crept down to find Mary the maid .
But Mary was out , so was the man , and Rose slipped away by the back-door , flattering herself that she had escaped the awkwardness of having Charlie for escort .
There she was mistaken , however , for the gate had hardly closed behind her when a well-known tramp was heard , and the Prince was beside her , saying in a tone of penitent politeness that banished Rose 's wrath like magic , `` You need n't speak to me if you do n't choose , but I must see you safely home , cousin . ''
She turned at once , put out her hand , and answered heartily , `` I was the cross one .
Please forgive me , and let 's be friends again . ''
Now that was better than a dozen sermons on the beauty of forgiveness , and did Charlie more good , for it showed him how sweet humility was , and proved that Rose practised as she preached .
He shook the hand warmly , then drew it through his arm and said , as if anxious to recover the good opinion with the loss of which he had been threatened , `` Look here , Rosy , I 've put the ring back , and I 'm going to try again .
But you do n't know how hard it is to stand being laughed at . ''
`` Yes , I do !
Ariadne plagues me every time I see her , because I do n't wear ear-rings after all the trouble I had getting ready for them . ''
`` Ah , but her twaddle is n't half as bad as the chaffing I get .
It takes a deal of pluck to hold out when you are told you are tied to an apron string , and all that sort of thing , '' sighed Charlie .
`` I thought you had a ` deal of pluck , ' as you call it .
The boys all say you are the bravest of the seven , '' said Rose .
`` So I am about some things , but I can not bear to be laughed at . ''
`` It is hard , but if one is right wo n't that make it easier ? ''
`` Not to me ; it might to a pious parson like Arch . ''
`` Please do n't call him names !
I guess he has what is called moral courage , and you physical courage .
Uncle explained the difference to me , and moral is the best , though often it does n't look so , '' said Rose thoughtfully .
Charlie did n't like that , and answered quickly , `` I do n't believe he 'd stand it any better than I do , if he had those fellows at him . ''
`` Perhaps that 's why he keeps out of their way , and wants you to . ''
Rose had him there , and Charlie felt it , but would not give in just yet , though he was going fast , for somehow , in the dark he seemed to see things clearer than in the light , and found it very easy to be confidential when it was `` only Rose . ''
`` If he was my brother , now , he 'd have some right to interfere , '' began Charlie , in an injured tone .
`` I wish he was ! ''
cried Rose .
`` So do I , '' answered Charlie , and then they both laughed at his inconsistency .
The laugh did them good , and when Prince spoke again , it was in a different tone pensive , not proud nor perverse .
`` You see , it 's hard upon me that I have no brothers and sisters .
The others are better off and need n't go abroad for chums if they do n't like .
I am all alone , and I 'd be thankful even for a little sister . ''
Rose thought that very pathetic , and , overlooking the uncomplimentary word `` even '' in that last sentence , she said , with a timid sort of earnestness that conquered her cousin at once , `` Play I was a little sister .
I know I 'm silly , but perhaps I 'm better than nothing , and I 'd dearly love to do it . ''
`` So should I !
and we will , for you are not silly , my dear , but a very sensible girl , we all think , and I 'm proud to have you for a sister .
There , now ! ''
and Charlie looked down at the curly head bobbing along beside him with real affection in his face .
Rose gave a skip of pleasure , and laid one seal-skin mitten over the other on his arm , as she said happily , `` That 's so nice of you !
Now , you need n't be lonely any more , and I 'll try to fill Archie 's place till he comes back , for I know he will , as soon as you let him . ''
`` Well , I do n't mind telling you that while he was my mate I never missed brothers and sisters , or wanted anyone else ; but since he cast me off , I 'll be hanged if I do n't feel as forlorn as old Crusoe before Friday turned up . ''
This burst of confidence confirmed Rose in her purpose of winning Charlie 's Mentor back to him , but she said no more , contented to have done so well .
They parted excellent friends , and Prince went home , wondering why `` a fellow did n't mind saying things to a girl or woman which they would die before they 'd own to another fellow . ''
Rose also had some sage reflections upon the subject , and fell asleep thinking that there were a great many curious things in this world , and feeling that she was beginning to find out some of them .
Next day she trudged up the hill to see Archie , and having told him as much as she thought best about her talk with Charlie , begged him to forget and forgive .
`` I 've been thinking that perhaps I ought to , though I am in the right .
I 'm no end fond of Charlie , and he 's the best-hearted lad alive ; but he ca n't say No , and that will play the mischief with him , if he does not take care , '' said Archie in his grave , kind way .
`` While father was home , I was very busy with him , so Prince got into a set I do n't like .
They try to be fast , and think it 's manly , and they flatter him , and lead him on to do all sorts of things play for money , and bet , and loaf about .
I hate to have him do so , and tried to stop it , but went to work the wrong way , so we got into a mess . ''
`` He is all ready to make up if you do n't say much , for he owned to me he was wrong ; but I do n't think he will own it to you , in words , '' began Rose .
`` I do n't care for that ; if he 'll just drop those row-dies and come back , I 'll hold my tongue and not preach .
I wonder if he owes those fellows money , and so does n't like to break off till he can pay it .
I hope not , but do n't dare to ask ; though , perhaps , Steve knows , he 's always after Prince , more 's the pity , '' and Archie looked anxious .
`` I think Steve does know , for he talked about debts of honour the day I gave him -- '' There Rose stopped short and turned scarlet .
But Archie ordered her to `` fess , '' and had the whole story in five minutes , for none dared disobey the Chief .
He completed her affliction by putting a five-dollar bill into her pocket by main force , looking both indignant and resolute as he said , `` Never do so again ; but send Steve to me , if he is afraid to go to his father .
Charlie had nothing to do with that ; he would n't borrow a penny of a girl , do n't think it .
But that 's the harm he does Steve , who adores him , and tries to be like him in all things .
Do n't say a word ; I 'll make it all right , and no one shall blame you . ''
`` Oh me !
I always make trouble by trying to help , and then letting out the wrong thing , '' sighed Rose , much depressed by her slip of the tongue .
Archie comforted her with the novel remark that it was always best to tell the truth , and made her quite cheerful by promising to heal the breach with Charlie as soon as possible .
He kept his word so well that the very next afternoon , as Rose looked out of the window , she beheld the joyful spectacle of Archie and Prince coming up the avenue , arm-in-arm , as of old , talking away as if to make up for the unhappy silence of the past weeks .
Rose dropped her work , hurried to the door , and , opening it wide , stood there smiling down upon them so happily , that the faces of the lads brightened as they ran up the steps eager to show that all was well with them .
`` Here 's our little peace-maker ! ''
said Archie , shaking hands with vigour .
But Charlie added , with a look that made Rose very proud and happy , `` And my little sister . ''
Chapter 24 -- Which ?
`` Uncle , I have discovered what girls are made for , '' said Rose , the day after the reconciliation of Archie and the Prince .
`` Well , my dear , what is it ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , who was `` planking the deck , '' as he called his daily promenade up and down the hall .
`` To take care of boys , '' answered Rose , quite beaming with satisfaction as she spoke .
`` Phebe laughed when I told her , and said she thought girls had better learn to take care of themselves first .
But that 's because she has n't got seven boy-cousins as I have . ''
`` She is right , nevertheless , Rosy , and so are you , for the two things go together , and in helping seven lads you are unconsciously doing much to improve one lass , '' said Dr. Alec , stopping to nod and smile at the bright-faced figure resting on the old bamboo chair , after a lively game of battledore and shuttlecock , in place of a run which a storm prevented .
`` Am I ?
I 'm glad of that ; but really , uncle , I do feel as if I must take care of the boys , for they come to me in all sorts of troubles , and ask advice , and I like it so much .
Only I do n't always know what to do , and I 'm going to consult you privately and then surprise them with my wisdom . ''
`` All right , my dear ; what 's the first worry ?
I see you have something on your little mind , so come and tell uncle . ''
Rose put her arm in his , and , pacing to and fro , told him all about Charlie , asking what she could do to keep him straight , and be a real sister to him .
`` Could you make up your mind to go and stay with Aunt Clara a month ? ''
asked the Doctor , when she ended .
`` Yes , sir ; but I should n't like it .
Do you really want me to go ? ''
`` The best cure for Charlie is a daily dose of Rose water , or Rose and water , or Rose and water ; will you go and see that he takes it ? ''
laughed Dr. Alec .
`` You mean that if I 'm there and try to make it pleasant , he will stay at home and keep out of mischief ? ''
`` Exactly . ''
`` But could I make it pleasant ?
He would want the boys . ''
`` No danger but he 'd have the boys , for they swarm after you like bees after their queen .
Have n't you found that out ? ''
`` Aunt Plen often says they never used to be here half so much before I came , but I never thought I made the difference , it seemed so natural to have them round . ''
`` Little modesty does n't know what a magnet she is ; but she will find it out some day , '' and the Doctor softly stroked the cheek that had grown rosy with pleasure at the thought of being so much loved .
`` Now , you see , if I move the magnet to Aunt Clara 's , the lads will go there as sure as iron to steel , and Charlie will be so happy at home he wo n't care for these mischievous mates of his I hope , '' added the Doctor , well knowing how hard it was to wean a seventeen-year-old boy from his first taste of what is called `` seeing life , '' which , alas !
often ends in seeing death .
`` I 'll go , uncle , right away !
Aunt Clara is always asking me , and will be glad to get me .
I shall have to dress and dine late , and see lots of company , and be very fashionable , but I 'll try not to let it hurt me ; and if I get in a puzzle or worried about anything I can run to you , '' answered Rose , good-will conquering timidity .
So it was decided , and without saying much about the real reason for this visit , Rose was transplanted to Aunt Clara 's , feeling that she had a work to do , and very eager to do it well .
Dr. Alec was right about the bees , for the boys did follow their queen , and astonished Mrs. Clara by their sudden assiduity in making calls , dropping in to dinner , and getting up evening frolics .
Charlie was a devoted host , and tried to show his gratitude by being very kind to his `` little sister , '' for he guessed why she came , and his heart was touched by her artless endeavours to `` help him be good . ''
Rose often longed to be back in the old house with the simpler pleasures and more useful duties of the life there ; but , having made up her mind , in spite of Phebe , that `` girls were made to take care of boys , '' here motherly little soul found much to enjoy in the new task she had undertaken .
It was a pretty sight to see the one earnest , sweet-faced girl among the flock of tall lads , trying to understand , to help and please them with a patient affection that worked many a small miracle unperceived .
Slang , rough manners , and careless habits were banished or bettered by the presence of a little gentlewoman ; and all the manly virtues cropping up were encouraged by the hearty admiration bestowed upon them by one whose good opinion all valued more than they confessed ; while Rose tried to imitate the good qualities she praised in them , to put away her girlish vanities and fears , to be strong and just , and frank and brave , as well as modest , kind , and beautiful .
This trial worked so well that when the month was over , Mac and Steve demanded a visit in their turn , and Rose went , feeling that she would like to hear grim Aunt Jane say , as Aunt Clara did at parting , `` I wish I could keep you all my life , dear . ''
After Mac and Steve had had their turn , Archie and Company bore her away for some weeks ; and with them she was so happy , she felt as if she would like to stay for ever , if she could have Uncle Alec also .
Of course , Aunt Myra could not be neglected , and , with secret despair , Rose went to the `` Mausoleum , '' as the boys called her gloomy abode .
Fortunately , she was very near home , and Dr. Alec dropped in so often that her visit was far less dismal than she expected .
Between them , they actually made Aunt Myra laugh heartily more than once ; and Rose did her so much good by letting in the sunshine , singing about the silent house , cooking wholesome messes , and amusing the old lady with funny little lectures on physiology , that she forgot to take her pills and gave up `` Mum 's Elixir , '' because she slept so well , after the long walks and drives she was beguiled into taking , that she needed no narcotic .
So the winter flew rapidly away , and it was May before Rose was fairly settled again at home .
They called her the `` Monthly Rose , '' because she had spent a month with each of the aunts , and left such pleasant memories of bloom and fragrance behind her , that all wanted the family flower back again .
Dr. Alec rejoiced greatly over his recovered treasure ; but as the time drew near when his year of experiment ended , he had many a secret fear that Rose might like to make her home for the next twelve month with Aunt Jessie , or even Aunt Clara , for Charlie 's sake .
He said nothing , but waited with much anxiety for the day when the matter should be decided ; and while he waited he did his best to finish as far as possible the task he had begun so well .
Rose was very happy now , being out nearly all day enjoying the beautiful awakening of the world , for spring came bright and early , as if anxious to do its part .
The old horse-chestnuts budded round her windows , green things sprung up like magic in the garden under her hands , hardy flowers bloomed as fast as they could , the birds sang blithely overhead , and every day a chorus of pleasant voices cried , `` Good morning , cousin , is n't it jolly weather ? ''
No one remembered the date of the eventful conversation which resulted in the Doctor 's experiment -LRB- no one but himself at least -RRB- ; so when the aunts were invited to tea one Saturday they came quite unsuspiciously , and were all sitting together having a social chat , when Brother Alec entered with two photographs in his hand .
`` Do you remember that ? ''
he said , showing one to Aunt Clara , who happened to be nearest .
`` Yes , indeed ; it is very like her when she came .
Quite her sad , unchildlike expression , and thin little face , with the big dark eyes . ''
The picture was passed round , and all agreed that `` it was very like Rose a year ago . ''
This point being settled , the Doctor showed the second picture , which was received with great approbation , and pronounced a `` charming likeness . ''
It certainly was , and a striking contrast to the first one , for it was a blooming , smiling face , full of girlish spirit and health , with no sign of melancholy , though the soft eyes were thoughtful , and the lines about the lips betrayed a sensitive nature .
Dr. Alec set both photographs on the chimneypiece , and , falling back a step or two , surveyed them with infinite satisfaction for several minutes , then wheeled round , saying briefly , as he pointed to the two faces , `` Time is up ; how do you think my experiment has succeeded , ladies ? ''
`` Bless me , so it is ! ''
cried Aunt Plenty , dropping a stitch in her surprise .
`` Beautifully , dear , '' answered Aunt Peace , smiling entire approval .
`` She certainly has improved , but appearances are deceitful , and she had no constitution to build upon , '' croaked Aunt Myra .
`` I am willing to allow that , as far as mere health goes , the experiment is a success , '' graciously observed Aunt Jane , unable to forget Rose 's kindness to her Mac .
`` So am I ; and I 'll go farther , for I really do believe Alec has done wonders for the child ; she will be a beauty in two or three years , '' added Aunt Clara , feeling that she could say nothing better than that .
`` I always knew he would succeed , and I 'm so glad you all allow it , for he deserves more credit than you know , and more praise than he will ever get , '' cried Aunt Jessie , clapping her hands with an enthusiasm that caused Jamie 's little red stocking to wave like a triumphal banner in the air .
Dr. Alec made them a splendid bow , looking much gratified , and then said soberly , `` Thank you ; now the question is , shall I go on ?
for this is only the beginning .
None of you know the hindrances I 've had , the mistakes I 've made , the study I 've given the case , and the anxiety I 've often felt .
Sister Myra is right is one thing Rose is a delicate creature , quick to flourish in the sunshine , and as quick to droop without it .
She has no special weakness , but inherits her mother 's sensitive nature , and needs the wisest , tenderest care , to keep a very ardent little soul from wearing out a finely organised little body .
I think I have found the right treatment , and ; with you to help me , I believe we may build up a lovely and a noble woman , who will be a pride and comfort to us all . ''
There Dr. Alec stopped to get his breath , for he had spoken very earnestly , and his voice got a little husky over the last words .
A gentle murmur from the aunts seemed to encourage him , and he went on with an engaging smile , for the good man was slyly trying to win all the ladies to vote for him when the time came .
`` Now , I do n't wish to be selfish or arbitrary , because I am her guardian , and I shall leave Rose free to choose for herself .
We all want her , and if she likes to make her home with any of you rather than with me , she shall do so .
In fact , I encouraged her visits last winter , that she might see what we can all offer her , and judge where she will be happiest .
Is not that the fairest way ?
Will you agree to abide by her choice , as I do ? ''
`` Yes , we will , '' said all the aunts , in quite a flutter of excitement at the prospect of having Rose for a whole year .
`` Good !
she will be here directly , and then we will settle the question for another year .
A most important year , mind you , for she has got a good start , and will blossom rapidly now if all goes well with her .
So I beg of you do n't undo my work , but deal very wisely and gently with my little girl , for if any harm come to her , I think it would break my heart . ''
As he spoke , Dr. Alec turned his back abruptly and affected to be examining the pictures again ; but the aunts understood how dear the child was to the solitary man who had loved her mother years ago , and who now found his happiness in cherishing the little Rose who was so like her .
The good ladies nodded and sighed , and telegraphed to one another that none of them would complain if not chosen , or ever try to rob Brother Alec of his `` Heart 's Delight , '' as the boys called Rose .
Just then a pleasant sound of happy voices came up from the garden , and smiles broke out on all serious faces .
Dr. Alec turned at once , saying , as he threw back his head , `` There she is ; now for it ! ''
The cousins had been a-Maying , and soon came flocking in laden with the spoils .
`` Here is our bonny Scotch rose with all her thorns about her , '' said Dr. Alec , surveying her with unusual pride and tenderness , as she went to show Aunt Peace her basket full of early flowers , fresh leaves , and curious lichens .
`` Leave your clutter in the hall , boys , and sit quietly down if you choose to stop here , for we are busy , '' said Aunt Plenty , shaking her finger at the turbulent Clan , who were bubbling over with the jollity born of spring sunshine and healthy exercise .
`` Of course , we choose to stay !
Would n't miss our Saturday high tea for anything , '' said the Chief , as he restored order among his men with a nod , a word , and an occasional shake .
`` What is up ?
a court-martial ? ''
asked Charlie , looking at the assembled ladies with affected awe and real curiosity , for these faces betrayed that some interesting business was afloat .
Dr. Alec explained in a few words , which he made as brief and calm as he could ; but the effect was exciting , nevertheless , for each of the lads began at once to bribe , entice , and wheedle `` our cousin '' to choose his home .
`` You really ought to come to us for mother 's sake , as a relish , you know , for she must be perfectly satiated with boys , '' began Archie , using the strongest argument he could think of at the moment .
`` Oh , do !
we 'll never slam , or bounce at you or call you ` fraid cat , ' if you only will , '' besought Geordie and Will , distorting their countenances in the attempt to smile with overpowering sweetness .
`` And I 'll always wash my hands ` fore I touch you , and you shall be my dolly , 'cause Pokey 's gone away , and I 'll love you hard , '' cried Jamie , clinging to her with his chubby face full of affection .
`` Brothers and sister ought to live together ; especially when the brother needs some one to make home pleasant for him , '' added Charlie , with the wheedlesome tone and look that Rose always found so difficult to resist .
`` You had her longest , and it 's our turn now ; Mac needs her more than you do , Prince , for she 's ` the light of his eyes , ' he says .
Come , Rose , choose us , and I 'll never use the musky pomade you hate again as long as I live , '' said Steve , with his most killing air , as he offered this noble sacrifice .
Mac peered wistfully over his goggles , saying in an unusually wide-awake and earnest way , -- `` Do , cousin , then we can study chemistry together .
My experiments do n't blow up very often now , and the gases are n't at all bad when you get used to them . ''
Rose meantime had stood quite still , with the flowers dropping from her hands as her eyes went from one eager face to another , while smiles rippled over her own at the various enticements offered her .
During the laugh that followed Mac 's handsome proposition , she looked at her uncle , whose eyes were fixed on her with an expression of love and longing that went to her heart .
`` Ah !
yes , '' she thought , `` he wants me most !
I 've often longed to give him something that he wished for very much , and now I can . ''
So , when , at a sudden gesture from Aunt Peace , silence fell , Rose said slowly , with a pretty colour in her cheeks , and a beseeching look about the room , as if asking pardon of the boys , `` It 's very hard to choose when everybody is so fond of me ; therefore I think I 'd better go to the one who seems to need me most . ''
`` No , dear , the one you love the best and will be happiest with , '' said Dr. Alec quickly , as a doleful sniff from Aunt Myra , and a murmur of `` My sainted Caroline , '' made Rose pause and look that way .
`` Take time , cousin ; do n't be in a hurry to make up your mind , and remember , ` Codlin 's your friend , ' '' added Charlie , hopeful still .
`` I do n't want any time !
I know who I love best , who I 'm happiest with , and I choose uncle .
Will he have me ? ''
cried Rose , in a tone that produced a sympathetic thrill among the hearers , it was so full of tender confidence and love .
If she really had any doubt , the look in Dr. Alec 's face banished it without a word , as he opened wide his arms , and she ran into them , feeling that home was there .
No one spoke for a minute , but there were signs of emotion among the aunts , which warned the boys to bestir themselves before the water-works began to play .
So they took hands and began to prance about uncle and niece , singing , with sudden inspiration , the nursery rhyme , `` Ring around a Rosy ! ''
Of course that put an end to all sentiment , and Rose emerged laughing from Dr. Alec 's bosom , with the mark of a waistcoat button nicely imprinted on her left cheek .
He saw it , and said with a merry kiss that half effaced it , `` This is my ewe lamb , and I have set my mark on her , so no one can steal her away . ''
That tickled the boys , and they set up a shout of , `` Uncle had a little lamb ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Flower_Fables.txt.out
THE FROST-KING : OR , THE POWER OF LOVE .
THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast ; each among the leaves of her favorite flower , Daisy , Primrose , and Violet , were happy as Elves need be .
The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro , and the sun shone warmly down upon the dewy grass , where butterflies spread their gay wings , and bees with their deep voices sung among the flowers ; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at them .
On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast ; little cakes of flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf , beside a crimson strawberry , which , with sugar from the violet , and cream from the yellow milkweed , made a fairy meal , and their drink was the dew from the flowers ' bright leaves .
`` Ah me , '' sighed Primrose , throwing herself languidly back , `` how warm the sun grows !
give me another piece of strawberry , and then I must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns .
But while I eat , tell me , dear Violet , why are you all so sad ?
I have scarce seen a happy face since my return from Rose Land ; dear friend , what means it ? ''
`` I will tell you , '' replied little Violet , the tears gathering in her soft eyes .
`` Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King ; many ways she tried , but all have failed .
She has sent messengers to his court with costly gifts ; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight , weary and sad ; we have watched over them , heedless of sun or shower , but still his dark spirits do their work , and we are left to weep over our blighted blossoms .
Thus have we striven , and in vain ; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time .
Therefore are we sad , dear Primrose , for she has toiled and cared for us , and we can do nothing to help or advise her now . ''
`` It is indeed a cruel thing , '' replied her friend ; `` but as we can not help it , we must suffer patiently , and not let the sorrows of others disturb our happiness .
But , dear sisters , see you not how high the sun is getting ?
I have my locks to curl , and my robe to prepare for the evening ; therefore I must be gone , or I shall be brown as a withered leaf in this warm light . ''
So , gathering a tiny mushroom for a parasol , she flew away ; Daisy soon followed , and Violet was left alone .
Then she spread the table afresh , and to it came fearlessly the busy ant and bee , gay butterfly and bird ; even the poor blind mole and humble worm were not forgotten ; and with gentle words she gave to all , while each learned something of their kind little teacher ; and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all .
The ant and bee learned generosity , the butterfly and bird contentment , the mole and worm confidence in the love of others ; and each went to their home better for the little time they had been with Violet .
Evening came , and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good Queen , who , seated on her mossy throne , looked anxiously upon the throng below , whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed like many-colored flowers .
At length she rose , and amid the deep silence spoke thus : -- `` Dear children , let us not tire of a good work , hard though it be and wearisome ; think of the many little hearts that in their sorrow look to us for help .
What would the green earth be without its lovely flowers , and what a lonely home for us !
Their beauty fills our hearts with brightness , and their love with tender thoughts .
Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone ?
They give to us their all ; ought we not to toil unceasingly , that they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes ?
We have tried to gain the love of the stern Frost-King , but in vain ; his heart is hard as his own icy land ; no love can melt , no kindness bring it back to sunlight and to joy .
How then may we keep our frail blossoms from his cruel spirits ?
Who will give us counsel ?
Who will be our messenger for the last time ?
Speak , my subjects . ''
Then a great murmuring arose , and many spoke , some for costlier gifts , some for war ; and the fearful counselled patience and submission .
Long and eagerly they spoke , and their soft voices rose high .
Then sweet music sounded on the air , and the loud tones were hushed , as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should come .
Through the crowd there came a little form , a wreath of pure white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round the gentle face , where a deep blush glowed , as , kneeling at the throne , little Violet said : -- `` Dear Queen , we have bent to the Frost-King 's power , we have borne gifts unto his pride , but have we gone trustingly to him and spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds ?
Have we shed the soft light of unwearied love around his cold heart , and with patient tenderness shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest lot ?
`` Our messengers have gone fearfully , and with cold looks and courtly words offered him rich gifts , things he cared not for , and with equal pride has he sent them back .
`` Then let me , the weakest of your band , go to him , trusting in the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart .
`` I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers ; these will I wind about him , and their bright faces , looking lovingly in his , will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind , and their soft breath steal in like gentle words .
Then , when he sees them fading on his breast , will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them fresh and lovely ?
This will I do , dear Queen , and never leave his dreary home , till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that bloom in our own dear land . ''
Silently the Queen had listened , but now , rising and placing her hand on little Violet 's head , she said , turning to the throng below : -- `` We in our pride and power have erred , while this , the weakest and lowliest of our subjects , has from the innocence of her own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our train .
All who will aid our brave little messenger , lift your wands , that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of Love . ''
Every fairy wand glistened in the air , as with silvery voices they cried , `` Love and little Violet . ''
Then down from the throne , hand in hand , came the Queen and Violet , and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil , to weave a wreath of the fairest flowers .
Tenderly they gathered them , with the night-dew fresh upon their leaves , and as they wove chanted sweet spells , and whispered fairy blessings on the bright messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land , that their gentle kindred might bloom unharmed .
At length it was done ; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the soft starlight , while beside them stood the Fairies , singing to the music of the wind-harps : -- `` We are sending you , dear flowers , Forth alone to die , Where your gentle sisters may not weep O'er the cold graves where you lie ; But you go to bring them fadeless life In the bright homes where they dwell , And you softly smile that ' t is so , As we sadly sing farewell .
O plead with gentle words for us , And whisper tenderly Of generous love to that cold heart , And it will answer ye ; And though you fade in a dreary home , Yet loving hearts will tell Of the joy and peace that you have given : Flowers , dear flowers , farewell ! ''
The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth , which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its breast , while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind , and birds sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves .
Then high above , on shining wings , soared a little form .
The sunlight rested softly on the silken hair , and the winds fanned lovingly the bright face , and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on .
Thus went Violet through the clear air , and the earth looked smiling up to her , as , with the bright wreath folded in her arms , she flew among the soft , white clouds .
On and on she went , over hill and valley , broad rivers and rustling woods , till the warm sunlight passed away , the winds grew cold , and the air thick with falling snow .
Then far below she saw the Frost-King 's home .
Pillars of hard , gray ice supported the high , arched roof , hung with crystal icicles .
Dreary gardens lay around , filled with withered flowers and bare , drooping trees ; while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky , and a cold wind murmured sadly through the wintry air .
With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more closely to her breast , and with weary wings flew onward to the dreary palace .
Here , before the closed doors , stood many forms with dark faces and harsh , discordant voices , who sternly asked the shivering little Fairy why she came to them .
Gently she answered , telling them her errand , beseeching them to let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms .
Then they flung wide the doors , and she passed in .
Walls of ice , carved with strange figures , were around her ; glittering icicles hung from the high roof , and soft , white snow covered the hard floors .
On a throne hung with clouds sat the Frost-King ; a crown of crystals bound his white locks , and a dark mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold breast .
His stern face could not stay little Violet , and on through the long hall she went , heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet , and the bleak wind that blew around her ; while the King with wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark walls as she passed .
The flowers , as if they knew their part , unfolded their bright leaves , and poured forth their sweetest perfume , as , kneeling at the throne , the brave little Fairy said , -- `` O King of blight and sorrow , send me not away till I have brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright and beautiful again .
Let me call back to the desolate gardens the fair forms that are gone , and their soft voices blessing you will bring to your breast a never failing joy .
Cast by your icy crown and sceptre , and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your heart .
`` Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty , and your dim eyes will rest only on fair forms , while music shall sound through these dreary halls , and the love of grateful hearts be yours .
Have pity on the gentle flower-spirits , and do not doom them to an early death , when they might bloom in fadeless beauty , making us wiser by their gentle teachings , and the earth brighter by their lovely forms .
These fair flowers , with the prayers of all Fairy Land , I lay before you ; O send me not away till they are answered . ''
And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves , Violet laid the wreath at his feet , while the golden light grew ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling there .
The King 's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle Fairy , and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him ; while their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear , telling of their dying sisters , and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the weak and sorrowing .
But he drew the dark mantle closer over his breast and answered coldly , -- `` I can not grant your prayer , little Fairy ; it is my will the flowers should die .
Go back to your Queen , and tell her that I can not yield my power to please these foolish flowers . ''
Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne , and with weary foot went forth again , out into the cold , dark gardens , and still the golden shadows followed her , and wherever they fell , flowers bloomed and green leaves rustled .
Then came the Frost-Spirits , and beneath their cold wings the flowers died , while the Spirits bore Violet to a low , dark cell , saying as they left her , that their King was angry that she had dared to stay when he had bid her go .
So all alone she sat , and sad thoughts of her happy home came back to her , and she wept bitterly .
But soon came visions of the gentle flowers dying in their forest homes , and their voices ringing in her ear , imploring her to save them .
Then she wept no longer , but patiently awaited what might come .
Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell , and she heard little voices calling for help , and high up among the heavy cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves , while their cruel enemies sat in their nets , watching their pain .
With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them , tenderly bound up their broken wings , and healed their wounds ; while they lay in the warm light , and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind deliverer .
Then she went to the ugly brown spiders , and in gentle words told them , how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin cloth , and in return the Fairies gave them food , and then how happily they lived among the green leaves , spinning garments for their neighbors .
`` And you too , '' said she , `` shall spin for me , and I will give you better food than helpless insects .
You shall live in peace , and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern King ; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray , that when folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it their home . ''
And while she gayly sung , the little weavers spun their silken threads , the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her head , and over all the golden light shone softly down .
When the Frost-Spirits told their King , he greatly wondered and often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and enemies worked peacefully together .
Still the light grew brighter , and floated out into the cold air , where it hung like bright clouds above the dreary gardens , whence all the Spirits ' power could not drive it ; and green leaves budded on the naked trees , and flowers bloomed ; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them , and they bowed their heads and died .
At length the mantle was finished , and amid the gray threads shone golden ones , making it bright ; and she sent it to the King , entreating him to wear it , for it would bring peace and love to dwell within his breast .
But he scornfully threw it aside , and bade his Spirits take her to a colder cell , deep in the earth ; and there with harsh words they left her .
Still she sang gayly on , and the falling drops kept time so musically , that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low , sweet sounds that came stealing up to him .
Thus Violet dwelt , and each day the golden light grew stronger ; and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of little velvet-coated moles , praying that they might listen to the sweet music , and lie in the warm light .
`` We lead , '' said they , `` a dreary life in the cold earth ; the flower-roots are dead , and no soft dews descend for us to drink , no little seed or leaf can we find .
Ah , good Fairy , let us be your servants : give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread , and we will do all in our power to serve you . ''
And Violet said , Yes ; so day after day they labored to make a pathway through the frozen earth , that she might reach the roots of the withered flowers ; and soon , wherever through the dark galleries she went , the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers , and they with new life spread forth in the warm ground , and forced fresh sap to the blossoms above .
Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft light , and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them , for when they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left them .
From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers , who nodded gayly to him , and in sweet colors strove to tell him of the good little Spirit , who toiled so faithfully below , that they might live .
And when he turned from the brightness without , to his stately palace , it seemed so cold and dreary , that he folded Violet 's mantle round him , and sat beneath the faded wreath upon his ice-carved throne , wondering at the strange warmth that came from it ; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy from her dismal prison .
Soon they came hastening back , and prayed him to come and see how lovely the dark cell had grown .
The rough floor was spread with deep green moss , and over wall and roof grew flowery vines , filling the air with their sweet breath ; while above played the clear , soft light , casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among the fragrant leaves ; and beneath the vines stood Violet , casting crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and listened as she sang to them .
When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary cell than his palace rooms , gentle thoughts within whispered him to grant her prayer , and let the little Fairy go back to her friends and home ; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid him see how frail they were , and useless to a King .
Then the stern , cold thoughts came back again , and he harshly bid her follow him .
With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him , and before the throne awaited his command .
When the King saw how pale and sad the gentle face had grown , how thin her robe , and weak her wings , and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and brightened as they lay upon the wand , which , guided by patient love , had made his once desolate home so bright , he could not be cruel to the one who had done so much for him , and in kindly tone he said , -- `` Little Fairy , I offer you two things , and you may choose between them .
If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may love , will you go back to your own people and leave me and my Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom ?
The earth is broad , and we can find them in any land , then why should you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe ?
Will you do this ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
answered Violet sadly , `` do you not know that beneath the flowers ' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and sorrows like our own ?
And can I , heedless of their beauty , doom them to pain and grief , that I might save my own dear blossoms from the cruel foes to which I leave them ?
Ah no !
sooner would I dwell for ever in your darkest cell , than lose the love of those warm , trusting hearts . ''
`` Then listen , '' said the King , `` to the task I give you .
You shall raise up for me a palace fairer than this , and if you can work that miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown .
And now go forth , and begin your task ; my Spirits shall not harm you , and I will wait till it is done before I blight another flower . ''
Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart ; for she had toiled so long , her strength was nearly gone .
But the flowers whispered their gratitude , and folded their leaves as if they blessed her ; and when she saw the garden filled with loving friends , who strove to cheer and thank her for her care , courage and strength returned ; and raising up thick clouds of mist , that hid her from the wondering flowers , alone and trustingly she began her work .
As time went by , the Frost-King feared the task had been too hard for the Fairy ; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist , bright shadows seen to pass within , but the little voice was never heard .
Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden , the flowers bowed their heads , and all was dark and cold as when the gentle Fairy came .
And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad ; for he missed the warm light , the happy flowers , and , more than all , the gay voice and bright face of little Violet .
So he wandered through his dreary palace , wondering how he had been content to live before without sunlight and love .
And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land , and many tears were shed , for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all , from the Queen down to the humblest flower .
Sadly they watched over every bird and blossom which she had loved , and strove to be like her in kindly words and deeds .
They wore cypress wreaths , and spoke of her as one whom they should never see again .
Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow , till one day there came to them an unknown messenger , wrapped in a dark mantle , who looked with wondering eyes on the bright palace , and flower-crowned elves , who kindly welcomed him , and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to refresh the weary stranger .
Then he told them that he came from the Frost-King , who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and see the palace little Violet had built ; for the veil of mist would soon be withdrawn , and as she could not make a fairer home than the ice-castle , the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear her home .
And while the Elves wept , he told them how patiently she had toiled , how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and beautiful .
These and many other things he told them ; for little Violet had won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits , and even when they killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and beauty , she spoke gentle words to them , and sought to teach them how beautiful is love .
Long stayed the messenger , and deeper grew his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home , to toil in the dreary palace of his cruel master , and suffer cold and weariness , to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing .
When the Elves had promised they would come , he bade farewell to happy Fairy-Land , and flew sadly home .
At last the time arrived , and out in his barren garden , under a canopy of dark clouds , sat the Frost-King before the misty wall , behind which were heard low , sweet sounds , as of rustling trees and warbling birds .
Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves .
First the Queen , known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the bright crown in her hair , beside whom flew a band of Elves in crimson and gold , making sweet music on their flower-trumpets , while all around , with smiling faces and bright eyes , fluttered her loving subjects .
On they came , like a flock of brilliant butterflies , their shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air ; and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers , and their sweet voices filled the gardens with music .
Like his subjects , the King looked on the lovely Elves , and no longer wondered that little Violet wept and longed for her home .
Darker and more desolate seemed his stately home , and when the Fairies asked for flowers , he felt ashamed that he had none to give them .
At length a warm wind swept through the gardens , and the mist-clouds passed away , while in silent wonder looked the Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them .
Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping boughs made graceful arches , through which the golden light shone softly , making bright shadows on the deep green moss below , where the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind , and sang , in their low , sweet voices , how beautiful is Love .
Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees , making green pillars of their rough trunks .
Fountains threw their bright waters to the roof , and flocks of silver-winged birds flew singing among the flowers , or brooded lovingly above their nests .
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves , snow-white clouds floated in the sunny shy , and the golden light , brighter than before , shone softly down .
Soon through the long aisles came Violet , flowers and green leaves rustling as she passed .
On she went to the Frost-King 's throne , bearing two crowns , one of sparkling icicles , the other of pure white lilies , and kneeling before him , said , -- `` My task is done , and , thanks to the Spirits of earth and air , I have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form .
You must now decide .
Will you be King of Flower-Land , and own my gentle kindred for your loving friends ?
Will you possess unfading peace and joy , and the grateful love of all the green earth 's fragrant children ?
Then take this crown of flowers .
But if you can find no pleasure here , go back to your own cold home , and dwell in solitude and darkness , where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter .
`` Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the happy earth , and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who would so gladly love and reverence you .
Then take this glittering crown , hard and cold as your own heart will be , if you will shut out all that is bright and beautiful .
Both are before you .
Choose . ''
The old King looked at the little Fairy , and saw how lovingly the bright shadows gathered round her , as if to shield her from every harm ; the timid birds nestled in her bosom , and the flowers grew fairer as she looked upon them ; while her gentle friends , with tears in their bright eyes , folded their hands beseechingly , and smiled on her .
Kind thought came thronging to his mind , and he turned to look at the two palaces .
Violet 's , so fair and beautiful , with its rustling trees , calm , sunny skies , and happy birds and flowers , all created by her patient love and care .
His own , so cold and dark and dreary , his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom , no green trees dwell , or gay birds sing , all desolate and dim ; -- and while he gazed , his own Spirits , casting off their dark mantles , knelt before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the things the gentle Fairies loved so much .
`` We have served you long and faithfully , '' said they , `` give us now our freedom , that we may learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long .
Grant the little Fairy 's prayer ; and let her go back to her own dear home .
She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear .
Choose the Flower crown , and we will be the truest subjects you have ever had . ''
Then , amid a burst of wild , sweet music , the Frost-King placed the Flower crown on his head , and knelt to little Violet ; while far and near , over the broad green earth , sounded the voices of flowers , singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy , and the summer wind was laden with perfumes , which they sent as tokens of their gratitude ; and wherever she went , old trees bent down to fold their slender branches round her , flowers laid their soft faces against her own , and whispered blessings ; even the humble moss bent over the little feet , and kissed them as they passed .
The old King , surrounded by the happy Fairies , sat in Violet 's lovely home , and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the bright sunlight ; while his Spirits , cold and gloomy no longer , danced with the Elves , and waited on their King with loving eagerness .
Brighter grew the golden light , gayer sang the birds , and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers , sounding over the earth , carried new joy to all their gentle kindred .
Brighter shone the golden shadows ; On the cool wind softly came The low , sweet tones of happy flowers , Singing little Violet 's name .
` Mong the green trees was it whispered , And the bright waves bore it on To the lonely forest flowers , Where the glad news had not gone .
Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom , And his power to harm and blight .
Violet conquered , and his cold heart Warmed with music , love , and light ; And his fair home , once so dreary , Gay with lovely Elves and flowers , Brought a joy that never faded Through the long bright summer hours .
Thus , by Violet 's magic power , All dark shadows passed away , And o'er the home of happy flowers The golden light for ever lay .
Thus the Fairy mission ended , And all Flower-Land was taught The `` Power of Love , '' by gentle deeds That little Violet wrought .
As Sunny Lock ceased , another little Elf came forward ; and this was the tale `` Silver Wing '' told .
EVA 'S VISIT TO FAIRY-LAND .
DOWN among the grass and fragrant clover lay little Eva by the brook-side , watching the bright waves , as they went singing by under the drooping flowers that grew on its banks .
As she was wondering where the waters went , she heard a faint , low sound , as of far-off music .
She thought it was the wind , but not a leaf was stirring , and soon through the rippling water came a strange little boat .
It was a lily of the valley , whose tall stem formed the mast , while the broad leaves that rose from the roots , and drooped again till they reached the water , were filled with gay little Elves , who danced to the music of the silver lily-bells above , that rang a merry peal , and filled the air with their fragrant breath .
On came the fairy boat , till it reached a moss-grown rock ; and here it stopped , while the Fairies rested beneath the violet-leaves , and sang with the dancing waves .
Eva looked with wonder on their gay faces and bright garments , and in the joy of her heart sang too , and threw crimson fruit for the little folks to feast upon .
They looked kindly on the child , and , after whispering long among themselves , two little bright-eyed Elves flew over the shining water , and , lighting on the clover-blossoms , said gently , `` Little maiden , many thanks for your kindness ; and our Queen bids us ask if you will go with us to Fairy-Land , and learn what we can teach you . ''
`` Gladly would I go with you , dear Fairies , '' said Eva , `` but I can not sail in your little boat .
See !
I can hold you in my hand , and could not live among you without harming your tiny kingdom , I am so large . ''
Then the Elves laughed gayly , as they folded their arms about her , saying , `` You are a good child , dear Eva , to fear doing harm to those weaker than yourself .
You can not hurt us now .
Look in the water and see what we have done . ''
Eva looked into the brook , and saw a tiny child standing between the Elves .
`` Now I can go with you , '' said she , `` but see , I can no longer step from the bank to yonder stone , for the brook seems now like a great river , and you have not given me wings like yours . ''
But the Fairies took each a hand , and flew lightly over the stream .
The Queen and her subjects came to meet her , and all seemed glad to say some kindly word of welcome to the little stranger .
They placed a flower-crown upon her head , laid their soft faces against her own , and soon it seemed as if the gentle Elves had always been her friends .
`` Now must we go home , '' said the Queen , `` and you shall go with us , little one . ''
Then there was a great bustle , as they flew about on shining wings , some laying cushions of violet leaves in the boat , others folding the Queen 's veil and mantle more closely round her , lest the falling dews should chill her .
The cool waves ' gentle plashing against the boat , and the sweet chime of the lily-bells , lulled little Eva to sleep , and when she woke it was in Fairy-Land .
A faint , rosy light , as of the setting sun , shone on the white pillars of the Queen 's palace as they passed in , and the sleeping flowers leaned gracefully on their stems , dreaming beneath their soft green curtains .
All was cool and still , and the Elves glided silently about , lest they should break their slumbers .
They led Eva to a bed of pure white leaves , above which drooped the fragrant petals of a crimson rose .
`` You can look at the bright colors till the light fades , and then the rose will sing you to sleep , '' said the Elves , as they folded the soft leaves about her , gently kissed her , and stole away .
Long she lay watching the bright shadows , and listening to the song of the rose , while through the long night dreams of lovely things floated like bright clouds through her mind ; while the rose bent lovingly above her , and sang in the clear moonlight .
With the sun rose the Fairies , and , with Eva , hastened away to the fountain , whose cool waters were soon filled with little forms , and the air ringing with happy voices , as the Elves floated in the blue waves among the fair white lilies , or sat on the green moss , smoothing their bright locks , and wearing fresh garlands of dewy flowers .
At length the Queen came forth , and her subjects gathered round her , and while the flowers bowed their heads , and the trees hushed their rustling , the Fairies sang their morning hymn to the Father of birds and blossoms , who had made the earth so fair a home for them .
Then they flew away to the gardens , and soon , high up among the tree-tops , or under the broad leaves , sat the Elves in little groups , taking their breakfast of fruit and pure fresh dew ; while the bright-winged birds came fearlessly among them , pecking the same ripe berries , and dipping their little beaks in the same flower-cups , and the Fairies folded their arms lovingly about them , smoothed their soft bosoms , and gayly sang to them .
`` Now , little Eva , '' said they , `` you will see that Fairies are not idle , wilful Spirits , as mortals believe .
Come , we will show you what we do . ''
They led her to a lovely room , through whose walls of deep green leaves the light stole softly in .
Here lay many wounded insects , and harmless little creatures , whom cruel hands had hurt ; and pale , drooping flowers grew beside urns of healing herbs , from whose fresh leaves came a faint , sweet perfume .
Eva wondered , but silently followed her guide , little Rose-Leaf , who with tender words passed among the delicate blossoms , pouring dew on their feeble roots , cheering them with her loving words and happy smile .
Then she went to the insects ; first to a little fly who lay in a flower-leaf cradle .
`` Do you suffer much , dear Gauzy-Wing ? ''
asked the Fairy .
`` I will bind up your poor little leg , and Zephyr shall rock you to sleep . ''
So she folded the cool leaves tenderly about the poor fly , bathed his wings , and brought him refreshing drink , while he hummed his thanks , and forgot his pain , as Zephyr softly sung and fanned him with her waving wings .
They passed on , and Eva saw beside each bed a Fairy , who with gentle hands and loving words soothed the suffering insects .
At length they stopped beside a bee , who lay among sweet honeysuckle flowers , in a cool , still place , where the summer wind blew in , and the green leaves rustled pleasantly .
Yet he seemed to find no rest , and murmured of the pain he was doomed to bear .
`` Why must I lie here , while my kindred are out in the pleasant fields , enjoying the sunlight and the fresh air , and cruel hands have doomed me to this dark place and bitter pain when I have done no wrong ?
Uncared for and forgotten , I must stay here among these poor things who think only of themselves .
Come here , Rose-Leaf , and bind up my wounds , for I am far more useful than idle bird or fly . ''
Then said the Fairy , while she bathed the broken wing , -- `` Love-Blossom , you should not murmur .
We may find happiness in seeking to be patient even while we suffer .
You are not forgotten or uncared for , but others need our care more than you , and to those who take cheerfully the pain and sorrow sent , do we most gladly give our help .
You need not be idle , even though lying here in darkness and sorrow ; you can be taking from your heart all sad and discontented feelings , and if love and patience blossom there , you will be better for the lonely hours spent here .
Look on the bed beside you ; this little dove has suffered far greater pain than you , and all our care can never ease it ; yet through the long days he hath lain here , not an unkind word or a repining sigh hath he uttered .
Ah , Love-Blossom , the gentle bird can teach a lesson you will be wiser and better for . ''
Then a faint voice whispered , `` Little Rose-Leaf , come quickly , or I can not thank you as I ought for all your loving care of me . ''
So they passed to the bed beside the discontented bee , and here upon the softest down lay the dove , whose gentle eyes looked gratefully upon the Fairy , as she knelt beside the little couch , smoothed the soft white bosom , folded her arms about it and wept sorrowing tears , while the bird still whispered its gratitude and love .
`` Dear Fairy , the fairest flowers have cheered me with their sweet breath , fresh dew and fragrant leaves have been ever ready for me , gentle hands to tend , kindly hearts to love ; and for this I can only thank you and say farewell . ''
Then the quivering wings were still , and the patient little dove was dead ; but the bee murmured no longer , and the dew from the flowers fell like tears around the quiet bed .
Sadly Rose-Leaf led Eva away , saying , `` Lily-Bosom shall have a grave tonight beneath our fairest blossoms , and you shall see that gentleness and love are prized far above gold or beauty , here in Fairy-Land .
Come now to the Flower Palace , and see the Fairy Court . ''
Beneath green arches , bright with birds and flowers , beside singing waves , went Eva into a lofty hall .
The roof of pure white lilies rested on pillars of green clustering vines , while many-colored blossoms threw their bright shadows on the walls , as they danced below in the deep green moss , and their low , sweet voices sounded softly through the sunlit palace , while the rustling leaves kept time .
Beside the throne stood Eva , and watched the lovely forms around her , as they stood , each little band in its own color , with glistening wings , and flower wands .
Suddenly the music grew louder and sweeter , and the Fairies knelt , and bowed their heads , as on through the crowd of loving subjects came the Queen , while the air was filled with gay voices singing to welcome her .
She placed the child beside her , saying , `` Little Eva , you shall see now how the flowers on your great earth bloom so brightly .
A band of loving little gardeners go daily forth from Fairy-Land , to tend and watch them , that no harm may befall the gentle spirits that dwell beneath their leaves .
This is never known , for like all good it is unseen by mortal eyes , and unto only pure hearts like yours do we make known our secret .
The humblest flower that grows is visited by our messengers , and often blooms in fragrant beauty unknown , unloved by all save Fairy friends , who seek to fill the spirits with all sweet and gentle virtues , that they may not be useless on the earth ; for the noblest mortals stoop to learn of flowers .
Now , Eglantine , what have you to tell us of your rosy namesakes on the earth ? ''
From a group of Elves , whose rose-wreathed wands showed the flower they loved , came one bearing a tiny urn , and , answering the Queen , she said , -- `` Over hill and valley they are blooming fresh and fair as summer sun and dew can make them .
No drooping stem or withered leaf tells of any evil thought within their fragrant bosoms , and thus from the fairest of their race have they gathered this sweet dew , as a token of their gratitude to one whose tenderness and care have kept them pure and happy ; and this , the loveliest of their sisters , have I brought to place among the Fairy flowers that never pass away . ''
Eglantine laid the urn before the Queen , and placed the fragrant rose on the dewy moss beside the throne , while a murmur of approval went through the hall , as each elfin wand waved to the little Fairy who had toiled so well and faithfully , and could bring so fair a gift to their good Queen .
Then came forth an Elf bearing a withered leaf , while her many-colored robe and the purple tulips in her hair told her name and charge .
`` Dear Queen , '' she sadly said , `` I would gladly bring as pleasant tidings as my sister , but , alas !
my flowers are proud and wilful , and when I went to gather my little gift of colored leaves for royal garments , they bade me bring this withered blossom , and tell you they would serve no longer one who will not make them Queen over all the other flowers .
They would yield neither dew nor honey , but proudly closed their leaves and bid me go . ''
`` Your task has been too hard for you , '' said the Queen kindly , as she placed the drooping flower in the urn Eglantine had given , `` you will see how this dew from a sweet , pure heart will give new life and loveliness even to this poor faded one .
So can you , dear Rainbow , by loving words and gentle teachings , bring back lost purity and peace to those whom pride and selfishness have blighted .
Go once again to the proud flowers , and tell them when they are queen of their own hearts they will ask no fairer kingdom .
Watch more tenderly than ever over them , see that they lack neither dew nor air , speak lovingly to them , and let no unkind word or deed of theirs anger you .
Let them see by your patient love and care how much fairer they might be , and when next you come , you will be laden with gifts from humble , loving flowers . ''
Thus they told what they had done , and received from their Queen some gentle chiding or loving word of praise .
`` You will be weary of this , '' said little Rose-Leaf to Eva ; `` come now and see where we are taught to read the tales written on flower-leaves , and the sweet language of the birds , and all that can make a Fairy heart wiser and better . ''
Then into a cheerful place they went , where were many groups of flowers , among whose leaves sat the child Elves , and learned from their flower-books all that Fairy hands had written there .
Some studied how to watch the tender buds , when to spread them to the sunlight , and when to shelter them from rain ; how to guard the ripening seeds , and when to lay them in the warm earth or send them on the summer wind to far off hills and valleys , where other Fairy hands would tend and cherish them , till a sisterhood of happy flowers sprang up to beautify and gladden the lonely spot where they had fallen .
Others learned to heal the wounded insects , whose frail limbs a breeze could shatter , and who , were it not for Fairy hands , would die ere half their happy summer life had gone .
Some learned how by pleasant dreams to cheer and comfort mortal hearts , by whispered words of love to save from evil deeds those who had gone astray , to fill young hearts with gentle thoughts and pure affections , that no sin might mar the beauty of the human flower ; while others , like mortal children , learned the Fairy alphabet .
Thus the Elves made loving friends by care and love , and no evil thing could harm them , for those they helped to cherish and protect ever watched to shield and save them .
Eva nodded to the gay little ones , as they peeped from among the leaves at the stranger , and then she listened to the Fairy lessons .
Several tiny Elves stood on a broad leaf while the teacher sat among the petals of a flower that bent beside them , and asked questions that none but Fairies would care to know .
`` Twinkle , if there lay nine seeds within a flower-cup and the wind bore five away , how many would the blossom have ? ''
`` Four , '' replied the little one .
`` Rosebud , if a Cowslip opens three leaves in one day and four the next , how many rosy leaves will there be when the whole flower has bloomed ? ''
`` Seven , '' sang the gay little Elf .
`` Harebell , if a silkworm spin one yard of Fairy cloth in an hour , how many will it spin in a day ? ''
`` Twelve , '' said the Fairy child .
`` Primrose , where lies Violet Island ? ''
`` In the Lake of Ripples . ''
`` Lilla , you may bound Rose Land . ''
`` On the north by Ferndale , south by Sunny Wave River , east by the hill of Morning Clouds , and west by the Evening Star . ''
`` Now , little ones , '' said the teacher , `` you may go to your painting , that our visitor may see how we repair the flowers that earthly hands have injured . ''
Then Eva saw how , on large , white leaves , the Fairies learned to imitate the lovely colors , and with tiny brushes to brighten the blush on the anemone 's cheek , to deepen the blue of the violet 's eye , and add new light to the golden cowslip .
`` You have stayed long enough , '' said the Elves at length , `` we have many things to show you .
Come now and see what is our dearest work . ''
So Eva said farewell to the child Elves , and hastened with little Rose-Leaf to the gates .
Here she saw many bands of Fairies , folded in dark mantles that mortals might not know them , who , with the child among them , flew away over hill and valley .
Some went to the cottages amid the hills , some to the sea-side to watch above the humble fisher folks ; but little Rose-Leaf and many others went into the noisy city .
Eva wondered within herself what good the tiny Elves could do in this great place ; but she soon learned , for the Fairy band went among the poor and friendless , bringing pleasant dreams to the sick and old , sweet , tender thoughts of love and gentleness to the young , strength to the weak , and patient cheerfulness to the poor and lonely .
Then the child wondered no longer , but deeper grew her love for the tender-hearted Elves , who left their own happy home to cheer and comfort those who never knew what hands had clothed and fed them , what hearts had given of their own joy , and brought such happiness to theirs .
Long they stayed , and many a lesson little Eva learned : but when she begged them to go back , they still led her on , saying , `` Our work is not yet done ; shall we leave so many sad hearts when we may cheer them , so many dark homes that we may brighten ?
We must stay yet longer , little Eva , and you may learn yet more . ''
Then they went into a dark and lonely room , and here they found a pale , sad-eyed child , who wept bitter tears over a faded flower .
`` Ah , '' sighed the little one , `` it was my only friend , and I cherished it with all my lone heart 's love ; ' t was all that made my sad life happy ; and it is gone . ''
Tenderly the child fastened the drooping stem , and placed it where the one faint ray of sunlight stole into the dreary room .
`` Do you see , '' said the Elves , `` through this simple flower will we keep the child pure and stainless amid the sin and sorrow around her .
The love of this shall lead her on through temptation and through grief , and she shall be a spirit of joy and consolation to the sinful and the sorrowing . ''
And with busy love toiled the Elves amid the withered leaves , and new strength was given to the flower ; while , as day by day the friendless child watered the growing buds , deeper grew her love for the unseen friends who had given her one thing to cherish in her lonely home ; sweet , gentle thoughts filled her heart as she bent above it , and the blossom 's fragrant breath was to her a whispered voice of all fair and lovely things ; and as the flower taught her , so she taught others .
The loving Elves brought her sweet dreams by night , and happy thoughts by day , and as she grew in childlike beauty , pure and patient amid poverty and sorrow , the sinful were rebuked , sorrowing hearts grew light , and the weak and selfish forgot their idle fears , when they saw her trustingly live on with none to aid or comfort her .
The love she bore the tender flower kept her own heart innocent and bright , and the pure human flower was a lesson to those who looked upon it ; and soon the gloomy house was bright with happy hearts , that learned of the gentle child to bear poverty and grief as she had done , to forgive those who brought care and wrong to them , and to seek for happiness in humble deeds of charity and love .
`` Our work is done , '' whispered the Elves , and with blessings on the two fair flowers , they flew away to other homes ; -- to a blind old man who dwelt alone with none to love him , till through long years of darkness and of silent sorrow the heart within had grown dim and cold .
No sunlight could enter at the darkened eyes , and none were near to whisper gentle words , to cheer and comfort .
Thus he dwelt forgotten and alone , seeking to give no joy to others , possessing none himself .
Life was dark and sad till the untiring Elves came to his dreary home , bringing sunlight and love .
They whispered sweet words of comfort , -- how , if the darkened eyes could find no light without , within there might be never-failing happiness ; gentle feelings and sweet , loving thoughts could make the heart fair , if the gloomy , selfish sorrow were but cast away , and all would be bright and beautiful .
They brought light-hearted children , who gathered round him , making the desolate home fair with their young faces , and his sad heart gay with their sweet , childish voices .
The love they bore he could not cast away , sunlight stole in , the dark thoughts passed away , and the earth was a pleasant home to him .
Thus their little hands led him back to peace and happiness , flowers bloomed beside his door , and their fragrant breath brought happy thoughts of pleasant valleys and green hills ; birds sang to him , and their sweet voices woke the music in his own soul , that never failed to calm and comfort .
Happy sounds were heard in his once lonely home , and bright faces gathered round his knee , and listened tenderly while he strove to tell them all the good that gentleness and love had done for him .
Still the Elves watched near , and brighter grew the heart as kindly thoughts and tender feelings entered in , and made it their home ; and when the old man fell asleep , above his grave little feet trod lightly , and loving hands laid fragrant flowers .
Then went the Elves into the dreary prison-houses , where sad hearts pined in lonely sorrow for the joy and freedom they had lost .
To these came the loving band with tender words , telling of the peace they yet might win by patient striving and repentant tears , thus waking in their bosoms all the holy feelings and sweet affections that had slept so long .
They told pleasant tales , and sang their sweetest songs to cheer and gladden , while the dim cells grew bright with the sunlight , and fragrant with the flowers the loving Elves had brought , and by their gentle teachings those sad , despairing hearts were filled with patient hope and earnest longing to win back their lost innocence and joy .
Thus to all who needed help or comfort went the faithful Fairies ; and when at length they turned towards Fairy-Land , many were the grateful , happy hearts they left behind .
Then through the summer sky , above the blossoming earth , they journeyed home , happier for the joy they had given , wiser for the good they had done .
All Fairy-Land was dressed in flowers , and the soft wind went singing by , laden with their fragrant breath .
Sweet music sounded through the air , and troops of Elves in their gayest robes hastened to the palace where the feast was spread .
Soon the bright hall was filled with smiling faces and fair forms , and little Eva , as she stood beside the Queen , thought she had never seen a sight so lovely .
The many-colored shadows of the fairest flowers played on the pure white walls , and fountains sparkled in the sunlight , making music as the cool waves rose and fell , while to and fro , with waving wings and joyous voices , went the smiling Elves , bearing fruit and honey , or fragrant garlands for each other 's hair .
Long they feasted , gayly they sang , and Eva , dancing merrily among them , longed to be an Elf that she might dwell forever in so fair a home .
At length the music ceased , and the Queen said , as she laid her hand on little Eva 's shining hair : -- `` Dear child , tomorrow we must bear you home , for , much as we long to keep you , it were wrong to bring such sorrow to your loving earthly friends ; therefore we will guide you to the brook-side , and there say farewell till you come again to visit us .
Nay , do not weep , dear Rose-Leaf ; you shall watch over little Eva 's flowers , and when she looks at them she will think of you .
Come now and lead her to the Fairy garden , and show her what we think our fairest sight .
Weep no more , but strive to make her last hours with us happy as you can . ''
With gentle caresses and most tender words the loving Elves gathered about the child , and , with Rose-Leaf by her side , they led her through the palace , and along green , winding paths , till Eva saw what seemed a wall of flowers rising before her , while the air was filled with the most fragrant odors , and the low , sweet music as of singing blossoms .
`` Where have you brought me , and what mean these lovely sounds ? ''
asked Eva .
`` Look here , and you shall see , '' said Rose-Leaf , as she bent aside the vines , `` but listen silently or you can not hear . ''
Then Eva , looking through the drooping vines , beheld a garden filled with the loveliest flowers ; fair as were all the blossoms she had seen in Fairy-Land , none were so beautiful as these .
The rose glowed with a deeper crimson , the lily 's soft leaves were more purely white , the crocus and humble cowslip shone like sunlight , and the violet was blue as the sky that smiled above it .
`` How beautiful they are , '' whispered Eva , `` but , dear Rose-Leaf , why do you keep them here , and why call you this your fairest sight ? ''
`` Look again , and I will tell you , '' answered the Fairy .
Eva looked , and saw from every flower a tiny form come forth to welcome the Elves , who all , save Rose-Leaf , had flown above the wall , and were now scattering dew upon the flowers ' bright leaves and talking gayly with the Spirits , who gathered around them , and seemed full of joy that they had come .
The child saw that each one wore the colors of the flower that was its home .
Delicate and graceful were the little forms , bright the silken hair that fell about each lovely face ; and Eva heard the low , sweet murmur of their silvery voices and the rustle of their wings .
She gazed in silent wonder , forgetting she knew not who they were , till the Fairy said , -- `` These are the spirits of the flowers , and this the Fairy Home where those whose hearts were pure and loving on the earth come to bloom in fadeless beauty here , when their earthly life is past .
The humblest flower that blooms has a home with us , for outward beauty is a worthless thing if all be not fair and sweet within .
Do you see yonder lovely spirit singing with my sister Moonlight ?
a clover blossom was her home , and she dwelt unknown , unloved ; yet patient and content , bearing cheerfully the sorrows sent her .
We watched and saw how fair and sweet the humble flower grew , and then gladly bore her here , to blossom with the lily and the rose .
The flowers ' lives are often short , for cruel hands destroy them ; therefore is it our greatest joy to bring them hither , where no careless foot or wintry wind can harm them , where they bloom in quiet beauty , repaying our care by their love and sweetest perfumes . ''
`` I will never break another flower , '' cried Eva ; `` but let me go to them , dear Fairy ; I would gladly know the lovely spirits , and ask forgiveness for the sorrow I have caused .
May I not go in ? ''
`` Nay , dear Eva , you are a mortal child , and can not enter here ; but I will tell them of the kind little maiden who has learned to love them , and they will remember you when you are gone .
Come now , for you have seen enough , and we must be away . ''
On a rosy morning cloud , surrounded by the loving Elves , went Eva through the sunny sky .
The fresh wind bore them gently on , and soon they stood again beside the brook , whose waves danced brightly as if to welcome them .
`` Now , ere we say farewell , '' said the Queen , as they gathered nearer to the child , `` tell me , dear Eva , what among all our Fairy gifts will make you happiest , and it shall be yours . ''
`` You good little Fairies , '' said Eva , folding them in her arms , for she was no longer the tiny child she had been in Fairy-Land , `` you dear good little Elves , what can I ask of you , who have done so much to make me happy , and taught me so many good and gentle lessons , the memory of which will never pass away ?
I can only ask of you the power to be as pure and gentle as yourselves , as tender and loving to the weak and sorrowing , as untiring in kindly deeds to all .
Grant me this gift , and you shall see that little Eva has not forgotten what you have taught her . ''
`` The power shall be yours , '' said the Elves , and laid their soft hands on her head ; `` we will watch over you in dreams , and when you would have tidings of us , ask the flowers in your garden , and they will tell you all you would know .
Farewell .
Remember Fairy-Land and all your loving friends . ''
They clung about her tenderly , and little Rose-Leaf placed a flower crown on her head , whispering softly , `` When you would come to us again , stand by the brook-side and wave this in the air , and we will gladly take you to our home again .
Farewell , dear Eva .
Think of your little Rose-Leaf when among the flowers . ''
Long Eva watched their shining wings , and listened to the music of their voices as they flew singing home , and when at length the last little form had vanished among the clouds , she saw that all around her where the Elves had been , the fairest flowers had sprung up , and the lonely brook-side was a blooming garden .
Thus she stood among the waving blossoms , with the Fairy garland in her hair , and happy feelings in her heart , better and wiser for her visit to Fairy-Land .
`` Now , Star-Twinkle , what have you to teach ? ''
asked the Queen .
`` Nothing but a little song I heard the hare-bells singing , '' replied the Fairy , and , taking her harp , sang , in a low , sweet voice : -- THE FLOWER 'S LESSON .
THERE grew a fragrant rose-tree where the brook flows , With two little tender buds , and one full rose ; When the sun went down to his bed in the west , The little buds leaned on the rose-mother 's breast , While the bright eyed stars their long watch kept , And the flowers of the valley in their green cradles slept ; Then silently in odors they communed with each other , The two little buds on the bosom of their mother .
`` O sister , '' said the little one , as she gazed at the sky , `` I wish that the Dew Elves , as they wander lightly by , Would bring me a star ; for they never grow dim , And the Father does not need them to burn round him .
The shining drops of dew the Elves bring each day And place in my bosom , so soon pass away ; But a star would glitter brightly through the long summer hours , And I should be fairer than all my sister flowers .
That were better far than the dew-drops that fall On the high and the low , and come alike to all .
I would be fair and stately , with a bright star to shine And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine . ''
And proudly she cried , `` These fire-flies shall be My jewels , since the stars can never come to me . ''
Just then a tiny dew-drop that hung o'er the dell On the breast of the bud like a soft star fell ; But impatiently she flung it away from her leaf , And it fell on her mother like a tear of grief , While she folded to her breast , with wilful pride , A glittering fire-fly that hung by her side .
`` Heed , '' said the mother rose , `` daughter mine , Why shouldst thou seek for beauty not thine ?
The Father hath made thee what thou now art ; And what he most loveth is a sweet , pure heart .
Then why dost thou take with such discontent The loving gift which he to thee hath sent ?
For the cool fresh dew will render thee far More lovely and sweet than the brightest star ; They were made for Heaven , and can never come to shine Like the fire-fly thou hast in that foolish breast of thine .
O my foolish little bud , do listen to thy mother ; Care only for true beauty , and seek for no other .
There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart ; Unfold thy leaves , my daughter , and let the fly depart . ''
But the proud little bud would have her own will , And folded the fire-fly more closely still ; Till the struggling insect tore open the vest Of purple and green , that covered her breast .
When the sun came up , she saw with grief The blooming of her sister bud leaf by leaf .
While she , once as fair and bright as the rest , Hung her weary head down on her wounded breast .
Bright grew the sunshine , and the soft summer air Was filled with the music of flowers singing there ; But faint grew the little bud with thirst and pain , And longed for the cool dew ; but now ' t was in vain .
Then bitterly she wept for her folly and pride , As drooping she stood by her fair sister 's side .
Then the rose mother leaned the weary little head On her bosom to rest , and tenderly she said : `` Thou hast learned , my little bud , that , whatever may betide , Thou canst win thyself no joy by passion or by pride .
The loving Father sends the sunshine and the shower , That thou mayst become a perfect little flower ; -- The sweet dews to feed thee , the soft wind to cheer , And the earth as a pleasant home , while thou art dwelling here .
Then shouldst thou not be grateful for all this kindly care , And strive to keep thyself most innocent and fair ?
Then seek , my little blossom , to win humility ; Be fair without , be pure within , and thou wilt happy be .
So when the quiet Autumn of thy fragrant life shall come , Thou mayst pass away , to bloom in the Flower Spirits ' home . ''
Then from the mother 's breast , where it still lay hid , Into the fading bud the dew-drop gently slid ; Stronger grew the little form , and happy tears fell , As the dew did its silent work , and the bud grew well , While the gentle rose leaned , with motherly pride , O'er the fair little ones that bloomed at her side .
Night came again , and the fire-flies flew ; But the bud let them pass , and drank of the dew ; While the soft stars shone , from the still summer heaven , On the happy little flower that had learned the lesson given .
The music-loving Elves clapped their hands , as Star-Twinkle ceased ; and the Queen placed a flower crown , with a gentle smile , upon the Fairy 's head , saying , -- `` The little bud 's lesson shall teach us how sad a thing is pride , and that humility alone can bring true happiness to flower and Fairy .
You shall come next , Zephyr . ''
And the little Fairy , who lay rocking to and fro upon a fluttering vine-leaf , thus began her story : -- `` As I lay resting in the bosom of a cowslip that bent above the brook , a little wind , tired of play , told me this tale of LILY-BELL AND THISTLEDOWN .
ONCE upon a time , two little Fairies went out into the world , to seek their fortune .
Thistledown was as gay and gallant a little Elf as ever spread a wing .
His purple mantle , and doublet of green , were embroidered with the brightest threads , and the plume in his cap came always from the wing of the gayest butterfly .
But he was not loved in Fairy-Land , for , like the flower whose name and colors he wore , though fair to look upon , many were the little thorns of cruelty and selfishness that lay concealed by his gay mantle .
Many a gentle flower and harmless bird died by his hand , for he cared for himself alone , and whatever gave him pleasure must be his , though happy hearts were rendered sad , and peaceful homes destroyed .
Such was Thistledown ; but far different was his little friend , Lily-Bell .
Kind , compassionate , and loving , wherever her gentle face was seen , joy and gratitude were found ; no suffering flower or insect , that did not love and bless the kindly Fairy ; and thus all Elf-Land looked upon her as a friend .
Nor did this make her vain and heedless of others ; she humbly dwelt among them , seeking to do all the good she might ; and many a houseless bird and hungry insect that Thistledown had harmed did she feed and shelter , and in return no evil could befall her , for so many friends were all about her , seeking to repay her tenderness and love by their watchful care .
She would not now have left Fairy-Land , but to help and counsel her wild companion , Thistledown , who , discontented with his quiet home , WOULD seek his fortune in the great world , and she feared he would suffer from his own faults for others would not always be as gentle and forgiving as his kindred .
So the kind little Fairy left her home and friends to go with him ; and thus , side by side , they flew beneath the bright summer sky .
On and on , over hill and valley , they went , chasing the gay butterflies , or listening to the bees , as they flew from flower to flower like busy little housewives , singing as they worked ; till at last they reached a pleasant garden , filled with flowers and green , old trees .
`` See , '' cried Thistledown , `` what a lovely home is here ; let us rest among the cool leaves , and hear the flowers sing , for I am sadly tired and hungry . ''
So into the quiet garden they went , and the winds gayly welcomed them , while the flowers nodded on their stems , offering their bright leaves for the Elves to rest upon , and fresh , sweet honey to refresh them .
`` Now , dear Thistle , do not harm these friendly blossoms , '' said Lily-Bell ; `` see how kindly they spread their leaves , and offer us their dew .
It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with cruelty and pain .
You will be tender for my sake , dear Thistle . ''
Then she went among the flowers , and they bent lovingly before her , and laid their soft leaves against her little face , that she might see how glad they were to welcome one so good and gentle , and kindly offered their dew and honey to the weary little Fairy , who sat among their fragrant petals and looked smilingly on the happy blossoms , who , with their soft , low voices , sang her to sleep .
While Lily-Bell lay dreaming among the rose-leaves , Thistledown went wandering through the garden .
First he robbed the bees of their honey , and rudely shook the little flowers , that he might get the dew they had gathered to bathe their buds in .
Then he chased the bright winged flies , and wounded them with the sharp thorn he carried for a sword ; he broke the spider 's shining webs , lamed the birds , and soon wherever he passed lay wounded insects and drooping flowers ; while the winds carried the tidings over the garden , and bird and blossom looked upon him as an evil spirit , and fled away or closed their leaves , lest he should harm them .
Thus he went , leaving sorrow and pain behind him , till he came to the roses where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
There , weary of his cruel sport , he stayed to rest beneath a graceful rose-tree , where grew one blooming flower and a tiny bud .
`` Why are you so slow in blooming , little one ?
You are too old to be rocked in your green cradle longer , and should be out among your sister flowers , '' said Thistle , as he lay idly in the shadow of the tree .
`` My little bud is not yet strong enough to venture forth , '' replied the rose , as she bent fondly over it ; `` the sunlight and the rain would blight her tender form , were she to blossom now , but soon she will be fit to bear them ; till then she is content to rest beside her mother , and to wait . ''
`` You silly flower , '' said Thistledown , `` see how quickly I will make you bloom !
your waiting is all useless . ''
And speaking thus , he pulled rudely apart the folded leaves , and laid them open to the sun and air ; while the rose mother implored the cruel Fairy to leave her little bud untouched .
`` It is my first , my only one , '' said she , `` and I have watched over it with such care , hoping it would soon bloom beside me ; and now you have destroyed it .
How could you harm the little helpless one , that never did aught to injure you ? ''
And while her tears fell like summer rain , she drooped in grief above the little bud , and sadly watched it fading in the sunlight ; but Thistledown , heedless of the sorrow he had given , spread his wings and flew away .
Soon the sky grew dark , and heavy drops began to fall .
Then Thistle hastened to the lily , for her cup was deep , and the white leaves fell like curtains over the fragrant bed ; he was a dainty little Elf , and could not sleep among the clovers and bright buttercups .
But when he asked the flower to unfold her leaves and take him in , she turned her pale , soft face away , and answered sadly , `` I must shield my little drooping sisters whom you have harmed , and can not let you in . ''
Then Thistledown was very angry , and turned to find shelter among the stately roses ; but they showed their sharp thorns , and , while their rosy faces glowed with anger , told him to begone , or they would repay him for the wrong he had done their gentle kindred .
He would have stayed to harm them , but the rain fell fast , and he hurried away , saying , `` The tulips will take me in , for I have praised their beauty , and they are vain and foolish flowers . ''
But when he came , all wet and cold , praying for shelter among their thick leaves , they only laughed and said scornfully , `` We know you , and will not let you in , for you are false and cruel , and will only bring us sorrow .
You need not come to us for another mantle , when the rain has spoilt your fine one ; and do not stay here , or we will do you harm . ''
Then they waved their broad leaves stormily , and scattered the heavy drops on his dripping garments .
`` Now must I go to the humble daisies and blue violets , '' said Thistle , `` they will be glad to let in so fine a Fairy , and I shall die in this cold wind and rain . ''
So away he flew , as fast as his heavy wings would bear him , to the daisies ; but they nodded their heads wisely , and closed their leaves yet closer , saying sharply , -- `` Go away with yourself , and do not imagine we will open our leaves to you , and spoil our seeds by letting in the rain .
It serves you rightly ; to gain our love and confidence , and repay it by such cruelty !
You will find no shelter here for one whose careless hand wounded our little friend Violet , and broke the truest heart that ever beat in a flower 's breast .
We are very angry with you , wicked Fairy ; go away and hide yourself . ''
`` Ah , '' cried the shivering Elf , `` where can I find shelter ?
I will go to the violets : they will forgive and take me in . ''
But the daisies had spoken truly ; the gentle little flower was dead , and her blue-eyed sisters were weeping bitterly over her faded leaves .
`` Now I have no friends , '' sighed poor Thistledown , `` and must die of cold .
Ah , if I had but minded Lily-Bell , I might now be dreaming beneath some flower 's leaves . ''
`` Others can forgive and love , beside Lily-Bell and Violet , '' said a faint , sweet voice ; `` I have no little bud to shelter now , and you can enter here . ''
It was the rose mother that spoke , and Thistle saw how pale the bright leaves had grown , and how the slender stem was bowed .
Grieved , ashamed , and wondering at the flower 's forgiving words , he laid his weary head on the bosom he had filled with sorrow , and the fragrant leaves were folded carefully about him .
But he could find no rest .
The rose strove to comfort him ; but when she fancied he was sleeping , thoughts of her lost bud stole in , and the little heart beat so sadly where he lay , that no sleep came ; while the bitter tears he had caused to flow fell more coldly on him than the rain without .
Then he heard the other flowers whispering among themselves of his cruelty , and the sorrow he had brought to their happy home ; and many wondered how the rose , who had suffered most , could yet forgive and shelter him .
`` Never could I forgive one who had robbed me of my children .
I could bow my head and die , but could give no happiness to one who had taken all my own , '' said Hyacinth , bending fondly over the little ones that blossomed by her side .
`` Dear Violet is not the only one who will leave us , '' sobbed little Mignonette ; `` the rose mother will fade like her little bud , and we shall lose our gentlest teacher .
Her last lesson is forgiveness ; let us show our love for her , and the gentle stranger Lily-Bell , by allowing no unkind word or thought of him who has brought us all this grief . ''
The angry words were hushed , and through the long night nothing was heard but the dropping of the rain , and the low sighs of the rose .
Soon the sunlight came again , and with it Lily-Bell seeking for Thistledown ; but he was ashamed , and stole away .
When the flowers told their sorrow to kind-hearted Lily-Bell , she wept bitterly at the pain her friend had given , and with loving words strove to comfort those whom he had grieved ; with gentle care she healed the wounded birds , and watched above the flowers he had harmed , bringing each day dew and sunlight to refresh and strengthen , till all were well again ; and though sorrowing for their dead friends , still they forgave Thistle for the sake of her who had done so much for them .
Thus , erelong , buds fairer than that she had lost lay on the rose mother 's breast , and for all she had suffered she was well repaid by the love of Lily-Bell and her sister flowers .
And when bird , bee , and blossom were strong and fair again , the gentle Fairy said farewell , and flew away to seek her friend , leaving behind many grateful hearts , who owed their joy and life to her .
Meanwhile , over hill and dale went Thistledown , and for a time was kind and gentle to every living thing .
He missed sadly the little friend who had left her happy home to watch over him , but he was too proud to own his fault , and so went on , hoping she would find him .
One day he fell asleep , and when he woke the sun had set , and the dew began to fall ; the flower-cups were closed , and he had nowhere to go , till a friendly little bee , belated by his heavy load of honey , bid the weary Fairy come with him .
`` Help me to bear my honey home , and you can stay with us tonight , '' he kindly said .
So Thistle gladly went with him , and soon they came to a pleasant garden , where among the fairest flowers stood the hive , covered with vines and overhung with blossoming trees .
Glow-worms stood at the door to light them home , and as they passed in , the Fairy thought how charming it must be to dwell in such a lovely place .
The floor of wax was pure and white as marble , while the walls were formed of golden honey-comb , and the air was fragrant with the breath of flowers .
`` You can not see our Queen to-night , '' said the little bee , `` but I will show you to a bed where you can rest . ''
And he led the tired Fairy to a little cell , where on a bed of flower-leaves he folded his wings and fell asleep .
As the first ray of sunlight stole in , he was awakened by sweet music .
It was the morning song of the bees .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the earliest gleam Of golden sunlight shines On the rippling waves , that brightly flow Beneath the flowering vines .
Awake !
awake !
for the low , sweet chant Of the wild-birds ' morning hymn Comes floating by on the fragrant air , Through the forest cool and dim ; Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hours ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flowers .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the summer wind Hath bidden the blossoms unclose , Hath opened the violet 's soft blue eye , And wakened the sleeping rose .
And lightly they wave on their slender stems Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , Waiting for us , as we singing come To gather our honey-dew there .
Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hours ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flowers ! ''
Soon his friend came to bid him rise , as the Queen desired to speak with him .
So , with his purple mantle thrown gracefully over his shoulder , and his little cap held respectfully in his hand , he followed Nimble-Wing to the great hall , where the Queen was being served by her little pages .
Some bore her fresh dew and honey , some fanned her with fragrant flower-leaves , while others scattered the sweetest perfumes on the air .
`` Little Fairy , '' said the Queen , `` you are welcome to my palace ; and we will gladly have you stay with us , if you will obey our laws .
We do not spend the pleasant summer days in idleness and pleasure , but each one labors for the happiness and good of all .
If our home is beautiful , we have made it so by industry ; and here , as one large , loving family , we dwell ; no sorrow , care , or discord can enter in , while all obey the voice of her who seeks to be a wise and gentle Queen to them .
If you will stay with us , we will teach you many things .
Order , patience , industry , who can teach so well as they who are the emblems of these virtues ?
`` Our laws are few and simple .
You must each day gather your share of honey , see that your cell is sweet and fresh , as you yourself must be ; rise with the sun , and with him to sleep .
You must harm no flower in doing your work , nor take more than your just share of honey ; for they so kindly give us food , it were most cruel to treat them with aught save gentleness and gratitude .
Now will you stay with us , and learn what even mortals seek to know , that labor brings true happiness ? ''
And Thistle said he would stay and dwell with them ; for he was tired of wandering alone , and thought he might live here till Lily-Bell should come , or till he was weary of the kind-hearted bees .
Then they took away his gay garments , and dressed him like themselves , in the black velvet cloak with golden bands across his breast .
`` Now come with us , '' they said .
So forth into the green fields they went , and made their breakfast among the dewy flowers ; and then till the sun set they flew from bud to blossom , singing as they went ; and Thistle for a while was happier than when breaking flowers and harming gentle birds .
But he soon grew tired of working all day in the sun , and longed to be free again .
He could find no pleasure with the industrious bees , and sighed to be away with his idle friends , the butterflies ; so while the others worked he slept or played , and then , in haste to get his share , he tore the flowers , and took all they had saved for their own food .
Nor was this all ; he told such pleasant tales of the life he led before he came to live with them , that many grew unhappy and discontented , and they who had before wished no greater joy than the love and praise of their kind Queen , now disobeyed and blamed her for all she had done for them .
Long she bore with their unkind words and deeds ; and when at length she found it was the ungrateful Fairy who had wrought this trouble in her quiet kingdom , she strove , with sweet , forgiving words , to show him all the wrong he had done ; but he would not listen , and still went on destroying the happiness of those who had done so much for him .
Then , when she saw that no kindness could touch his heart , she said : -- `` Thistledown , we took you in , a friendless stranger , fed and clothed you , and made our home as pleasant to you as we could ; and in return for all our care , you have brought discontent and trouble to my subjects , grief and care to me .
I can not let my peaceful kingdom be disturbed by you ; therefore go and seek another home .
You may find other friends , but none will love you more than we , had you been worthy of it ; so farewell . ''
And the doors of the once happy home he had disturbed were closed behind him .
Then he was very angry , and determined to bring some great sorrow on the good Queen .
So he sought out the idle , wilful bees , whom he had first made discontented , bidding them follow him , and win the honey the Queen had stored up for the winter .
`` Let us feast and make merry in the pleasant summer-time , '' said Thistle ; `` winter is far off , why should we waste these lovely days , toiling to lay up the food we might enjoy now .
Come , we will take what we have made , and think no more of what the Queen has said . ''
So while the industrious bees were out among the flowers , he led the drones to the hive , and took possession of the honey , destroying and laying waste the home of the kind bees ; then , fearing that in their grief and anger they might harm him , Thistle flew away to seek new friends .
After many wanderings , he came at length to a great forest , and here beside a still lake he stayed to rest .
Delicate wood-flowers grew near him in the deep green moss , with drooping heads , as if they listened to the soft wind singing among the pines .
Bright-eyed birds peeped at him from their nests , and many-colored insects danced above the cool , still lake .
`` This is a pleasant place , '' said Thistle ; `` it shall be my home for a while .
Come hither , blue dragon-fly , I would gladly make a friend of you , for I am all alone . ''
The dragon-fly folded his shining wings beside the Elf , listened to the tale he told , promised to befriend the lonely one , and strove to make the forest a happy home to him .
So here dwelt Thistle , and many kind friends gathered round him , for he spoke gently to them , and they knew nothing of the cruel deeds he had done ; and for a while he was happy and content .
But at length he grew weary of the gentle birds , and wild-flowers , and sought new pleasure in destroying the beauty he was tired of ; and soon the friends who had so kindly welcomed him looked upon him as an evil spirit , and shrunk away as he approached .
At length his friend the dragon-fly besought him to leave the quiet home he had disturbed .
Then Thistle was very angry , and while the dragon-fly was sleeping among the flowers that hung over the lake , he led an ugly spider to the spot , and bade him weave his nets about the sleeping insect , and bind him fast .
The cruel spider gladly obeyed the ungrateful Fairy ; and soon the poor fly could move neither leg nor wing .
Then Thistle flew away through the wood , leaving sorrow and trouble behind him .
He had not journeyed far before he grew weary , and lay down to rest .
Long he slept , and when he awoke , and tried to rise , his hands and wings were bound ; while beside him stood two strange little figures , with dark faces and garments , that rustled like withered leaves ; who cried to him , as he struggled to get free , -- `` Lie still , you naughty Fairy , you are in the Brownies ' power , and shall be well punished for your cruelty ere we let you go . ''
So poor Thistle lay sorrowfully , wondering what would come of it , and wishing Lily-Bell would come to help and comfort him ; but he had left her , and she could not help him now .
Soon a troop of Brownies came rustling through the air , and gathered round him , while one who wore an acorn-cup on his head , and was their King , said , as he stood beside the trembling Fairy , -- `` You have done many cruel things , and caused much sorrow to happy hearts ; now you are in my power , and I shall keep you prisoner till you have repented .
You can not dwell on the earth without harming the fair things given you to enjoy , so you shall live alone in solitude and darkness , till you have learned to find happiness in gentle deeds , and forget yourself in giving joy to others .
When you have learned this , I will set you free . ''
Then the Brownies bore him to a high , dark rock , and , entering a little door , led him to a small cell , dimly lighted by a crevice through which came a single gleam of sunlight ; and there , through long , long days , poor Thistle sat alone , and gazed with wistful eyes at the little opening , longing to be out on the green earth .
No one came to him , but the silent Brownies who brought his daily food ; and with bitter tears he wept for Lily-Bell , mourning his cruelty and selfishness , seeking to do some kindly deed that might atone for his wrong-doing .
A little vine that grew outside his prison rock came creeping up , and looked in through the crevice , as if to cheer the lonely Fairy , who welcomed it most gladly , and daily sprinkled its soft leaves with his small share of water , that the little vine might live , even if it darkened more and more his dim cell .
The watchful Brownies saw this kind deed , and brought him fresh flowers , and many things , which Thistle gratefully received , though he never knew it was his kindness to the vine that gained for him these pleasures .
Thus did poor Thistle strive to be more gentle and unselfish , and grew daily happier and better .
Now while Thistledown was a captive in the lonely cell , Lily-Bell was seeking him far and wide , and sadly traced him by the sorrowing hearts he had left behind .
She healed the drooping flowers , cheered the Queen Bee 's grief , brought back her discontented subjects , restored the home to peace and order , and left them blessing her .
Thus she journeyed on , till she reached the forest where Thistledown had lost his freedom .
She unbound the starving dragon-fly , and tended the wounded birds ; but though all learned to love her , none could tell where the Brownies had borne her friend , till a little wind came whispering by , and told her that a sweet voice had been heard , singing Fairy songs , deep in a moss-grown rock .
Then Lily-Bell went seeking through the forest , listening for the voice .
Long she looked and listened in vain ; when one day , as she was wandering through a lonely dell , she heard a faint , low sound of music , and soon a distant voice mournfully singing , -- `` Bright shines the summer sun , Soft is the summer air ; Gayly the wood-birds sing , Flowers are blooming fair .
`` But , deep in the dark , cold rock , Sadly I dwell , Longing for thee , dear friend , Lily-Bell !
Lily-Bell ! ''
`` Thistle , dear Thistle , where are you ? ''
joyfully cried Lily-Bell , as she flew from rock to rock .
But the voice was still , and she would have looked in vain , had she not seen a little vine , whose green leaves fluttering to and fro seemed beckoning her to come ; and as she stood among its flowers she sang , -- `` Through sunlight and summer air I have sought for thee long , Guided by birds and flowers , And now by thy song .
`` Thistledown !
Thistledown !
O'er hill and dell Hither to comfort thee Comes Lily-Bell . ''
Then from the vine-leaves two little arms were stretched out to her , and Thistledown was found .
So Lily-Bell made her home in the shadow of the vine , and brought such joy to Thistle , that his lonely cell seemed pleasanter to him than all the world beside ; and he grew daily more like his gentle friend .
But it did not last long , for one day she did not come .
He watched and waited long , for the little face that used to peep smiling in through the vine-leaves .
He called and beckoned through the narrow opening , but no Lily-Bell answered ; and he wept sadly as he thought of all she had done for him , and that now he could not go to seek and help her , for he had lost his freedom by his own cruel and wicked deeds .
At last he besought the silent Brownie earnestly to tell him whither she had gone .
`` O let me go to her , '' prayed Thistle ; `` if she is in sorrow , I will comfort her , and show my gratitude for all she has done for me : dear Brownie , set me free , and when she is found I will come and be your prisoner again .
I will bear and suffer any danger for her sake . ''
`` Lily-Bell is safe , '' replied the Brownie ; `` come , you shall learn the trial that awaits you . ''
Then he led the wondering Fairy from his prison , to a group of tall , drooping ferns , beneath whose shade a large white lily had been placed , forming a little tent , within which , on a couch of thick green moss , lay Lily-Bell in a deep sleep ; the sunlight stole softly in , and all was cool and still .
`` You can not wake her , '' said the Brownie , as Thistle folded his arms tenderly about her .
`` It is a magic slumber , and she will not wake till you shall bring hither gifts from the Earth , Air , and Water Spirits . '
T is a long and weary task , for you have made no friends to help you , and will have to seek for them alone .
This is the trial we shall give you ; and if your love for Lily-Bell be strong enough to keep you from all cruelty and selfishness , and make you kind and loving as you should be , she will awake to welcome you , and love you still more fondly than before . ''
Then Thistle , with a last look on the little friend he loved so well , set forth alone to his long task .
The home of the Earth Spirits was the first to find , and no one would tell him where to look .
So far and wide he wandered , through gloomy forests and among lonely hills , with none to cheer him when sad and weary , none to guide him on his way .
On he went , thinking of Lily-Bell , and for her sake bearing all ; for in his quiet prison many gentle feelings and kindly thoughts had sprung up in his heart , and he now strove to be friends with all , and win for himself the love and confidence of those whom once he sought to harm and cruelly destroy .
But few believed him ; for they remembered his false promises and evil deeds , and would not trust him now ; so poor Thistle found few to love or care for him .
Long he wandered , and carefully he sought ; but could not find the Earth Spirits ' home .
And when at length he reached the pleasant garden where he and Lily-Bell first parted , he said within himself , -- `` Here I will stay awhile , and try to win by kindly deeds the flowers ' forgiveness for the pain and sorrow I brought them long ago ; and they may learn to love and trust me .
So , even if I never find the Spirits , I shall be worthier of Lily-Bell 's affection if I strive to atone for the wrong I have done . ''
Then he went among the flowers , but they closed their leaves , and shrank away , trembling with fear ; while the birds fled to hide among the leaves as he passed .
This grieved poor Thistle , and he longed to tell them how changed he had become ; but they would not listen .
So he tried to show , by quiet deeds of kindness , that he meant no harm to them ; and soon the kind-hearted birds pitied the lonely Fairy , and when he came near sang cheering songs , and dropped ripe berries in his path , for he no longer broke their eggs , or hurt their little ones .
And when the flowers saw this , and found the once cruel Elf now watering and tending little buds , feeding hungry insects , and helping the busy ants to bear their heavy loads , they shared the pity of the birds , and longed to trust him ; but they dared not yet .
He came one day , while wandering through the garden , to the little rose he had once harmed so sadly .
Many buds now bloomed beside her , and her soft face glowed with motherly pride , as she bent fondly over them .
But when Thistle came , he saw with sorrow how she bade them close their green curtains , and conceal themselves beneath the leaves , for there was danger near ; and , drooping still more closely over them , she seemed to wait with trembling fear the cruel Fairy 's coming .
But no rude hand tore her little ones away , no unkind words were spoken ; but a soft shower of dew fell lightly on them , and Thistle , bending tenderly above them , said , -- `` Dear flower , forgive the sorrow I once brought you , and trust me now for Lily-Bell 's sake .
Her gentleness has changed my cruelty to kindness , and I would gladly repay all for the harm I have done ; but none will love and trust me now . ''
Then the little rose looked up , and while the dew-drops shone like happy tears upon her leaves , she said , -- `` I WILL love and trust you , Thistle , for you are indeed much changed .
Make your home among us , and my sister flowers will soon learn to love you as you deserve .
Not for sweet Lily-Bell 's sake , but for your own , will I become your friend ; for you are kind and gentle now , and worthy of our love .
Look up , my little ones , there is no danger near ; look up , and welcome Thistle to our home . ''
Then the little buds raised their rosy faces , danced again upon their stems , and nodded kindly at Thistle , who smiled on them through happy tears , and kissed the sweet , forgiving rose , who loved and trusted him when most forlorn and friendless .
But the other flowers wondered among themselves , and Hyacinth said , -- `` If Rose-Leaf is his friend , surely we may be ; yet still I fear he may soon grow weary of this gentleness , and be again the wicked Fairy he once was , and we shall suffer for our kindness to him now . ''
`` Ah , do not doubt him ! ''
cried warm-hearted little Mignonette ; `` surely some good spirit has changed the wicked Thistle into this good little Elf .
See how tenderly he lifts aside the leaves that overshadow pale Harebell , and listen now how softly he sings as he rocks little Eglantine to sleep .
He has done many friendly things , though none save Rose-Leaf has been kind to him , and he is very sad .
Last night when I awoke to draw my curtains closer , he sat weeping in the moonlight , so bitterly , I longed to speak a kindly word to him .
Dear sisters , let us trust him . ''
And they all said little Mignonette was right ; and , spreading wide their leaves , they bade him come , and drink their dew , and lie among the fragrant petals , striving to cheer his sorrow .
Thistle told them all , and , after much whispering together , they said , -- `` Yes , we will help you to find the Earth Spirits , for you are striving to be good , and for love of Lily-Bell we will do much for you . ''
So they called a little bright-eyed mole , and said , `` Downy-Back , we have given you a pleasant home among our roots , and you are a grateful little friend ; so will you guide dear Thistle to the Earth Spirits ' home ? ''
Downy-Back said , `` Yes , '' and Thistle , thanking the kindly flowers , followed his little guide , through long , dark galleries , deeper and deeper into the ground ; while a glow-worm flew before to light the way .
On they went , and after a while , reached a path lit up by bright jewels hung upon the walls .
Here Downy-Back , and Glimmer , the glow-worm , left him , saying , -- `` We can lead you no farther ; you must now go on alone , and the music of the Spirits will guide you to their home . ''
Then they went quickly up the winding path , and Thistle , guided by the sweet music , went on alone .
He soon reached a lovely spot , whose golden halls were bright with jewels , which sparkled brightly , and threw many-colored shadows on the shining garments of the little Spirits , who danced below to the melody of soft , silvery bells .
Long Thistle stood watching the brilliant forms that flashed and sparkled round him ; but he missed the flowers and the sunlight , and rejoiced that he was not an Earth Spirit .
At last they spied him out , and , gladly welcoming him , bade him join in their dance .
But Thistledown was too sad for that , and when he told them all his story they no longer urged , but sought to comfort him ; and one whom they called little Sparkle -LRB- for her crown and robe shone with the brightest diamonds -RRB- , said : `` You will have to work for us , ere you can win a gift to show the Brownies ; do you see those golden bells that make such music , as we wave them to and fro ?
We worked long and hard ere they were won , and you can win one of those , if you will do the task we give you . ''
And Thistle said , `` No task will be too hard for me to do for dear Lily-Bell 's sake . ''
Then they led him to a strange , dark place , lit up with torches ; where troops of Spirits flew busily to and fro , among damp rocks , and through dark galleries that led far down into the earth .
`` What do they here ? ''
asked Thistle .
`` I will tell , '' replied little Sparkle , `` for I once worked here myself .
Some of them watch above the flower-roots , and keep them fresh and strong ; others gather the clear drops that trickle from the damp rocks , and form a little spring , which , growing ever larger , rises to the light above , and gushes forth in some green field or lonely forest ; where the wild-birds come to drink , and wood-flowers spread their thirsty leaves above the clear , cool waves , as they go dancing away , carrying joy and freshness wherever they go .
Others shape the bright jewels into lovely forms , and make the good-luck pennies which we give to mortals whom we love .
And here you must toil till the golden flower is won . ''
Then Thistle went among the Spirits , and joined in their tasks ; he tended the flower-roots , gathered the water-drops , and formed the good-luck pennies .
Long and hard he worked , and was often sad and weary , often tempted by unkind and selfish thoughts ; but he thought of Lily-Bell , and strove to be kind and loving as she had been ; and soon the Spirits learned to love the patient Fairy , who had left his home to toil among them for the sake of his gentle friend .
At length came little Sparkle to him , saying , `` You have done enough ; come now , and dance and feast with us , for the golden flower is won . ''
But Thistle could not stay , for half his task was not yet done ; and he longed for sunlight and Lily-Bell .
So , taking a kind farewell , he hastened through the torch-lit path up to the light again ; and , spreading his wings , flew over hill and dale till he reached the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
It was early morning , and the rosy light shone brightly through the lily-leaves upon her , as Thistle entered , and laid his first gift at the Brownie King 's feet .
`` You have done well , '' said he , `` we hear good tidings of you from bird and flower , and you are truly seeking to repair the evil you have done .
Take now one look at your little friend , and then go forth to seek from the Air Spirits your second gift . ''
Then Thistle said farewell again to Lily-Bell , and flew far and wide among the clouds , seeking the Air Spirits ; but though he wandered till his weary wings could bear him no longer , it was in vain .
So , faint and sad , he lay down to rest on a broad vine-leaf , that fluttered gently in the wind ; and as he lay , he saw beneath him the home of the kind bees whom he had so disturbed , and Lily-Bell had helped and comforted .
`` I will seek to win their pardon , and show them that I am no longer the cruel Fairy who so harmed them , '' thought Thistle , `` and when they become again my friends , I will ask their help to find the Air Spirits ; and if I deserve it , they will gladly aid me on my way . ''
So he flew down into the field below , and hastened busily from flower to flower , till he had filled a tiny blue-bell with sweet , fresh honey .
Then he stole softly to the hive , and , placing it near the door , concealed himself to watch .
Soon his friend Nimble-Wing came flying home , and when he spied the little cup , he hummed with joy , and called his companions around him .
`` Surely , some good Elf has placed it here for us , '' said they ; `` let us bear it to our Queen ; it is so fresh and fragrant it will be a fit gift for her '' ; and they joyfully took it in , little dreaming who had placed it there .
So each day Thistle filled a flower-cup , and laid it at the door ; and each day the bees wondered more and more , for many strange things happened .
The field-flowers told of the good spirit who watched above them , and the birds sang of the same kind little Elf bringing soft moss for their nests , and food for their hungry young ones ; while all around the hive had grown fairer since the Fairy came .
But the bees never saw him , for he feared he had not yet done enough to win their forgiveness and friendship ; so he lived alone among the vines , daily bringing them honey , and doing some kindly action .
At length , as he lay sleeping in a flower-bell , a little bee came wandering by , and knew him for the wicked Thistle ; so he called his friends , and , as they flew murmuring around him , he awoke .
`` What shall we do to you , naughty Elf ? ''
said they .
`` You are in our power , and we will sting you if you are not still . ''
`` Let us close the flower-leaves around him and leave him here to starve , '' cried one , who had not yet forgotten all the sorrow Thistle had caused them long ago .
`` No , no , that were very cruel , dear Buzz , '' said little Hum ; `` let us take him to our Queen , and she will tell us how to show our anger for the wicked deeds he did .
See how bitterly he weeps ; be kind to him , he will not harm us more . ''
`` You good little Hum ! ''
cried a kind-hearted robin who had hopped near to listen to the bees .
`` Dear friends , do you not know that this is the good Fairy who has dwelt so quietly among us , watching over bird and blossom , giving joy to all he helps ?
It is HE who brings the honey-cup each day to you , and then goes silently away , that you may never know who works so faithfully for you .
Be kind to him , for if he has done wrong , he has repented of it , as you may see . ''
`` Can this be naughty Thistle ? ''
said Nimble-Wing .
`` Yes , it is I , '' said Thistle , `` but no longer cruel and unkind .
I have tried to win your love by patient industry .
Ah , trust me now , and you shall see I am not naughty Thistle any more . ''
Then the wondering bees led him to their Queen , and when he had told his tale , and begged their forgiveness , it was gladly given ; and all strove to show him that he was loved and trusted .
Then he asked if they could tell him where the Air Spirits dwelt , for he must not forget dear Lily-Bell ; and to his great joy the Queen said , `` Yes , '' and bade little Hum guide Thistle to Cloud-Land .
Little Hum joyfully obeyed ; and Thistle followed him , as he flew higher and higher among the soft clouds , till in the distance they saw a radiant light .
`` There is their home , and I must leave you now , dear Thistle , '' said the little bee ; and , bidding him farewell , he flew singing back ; while Thistle , following the light , soon found himself in the Air Spirits ' home .
The sky was gold and purple like an autumn sunset , and long walls of brilliant clouds lay round him .
A rosy light shone through the silver mist , on gleaming columns and the rainbow roof ; soft , fragrant winds went whispering by , and airy little forms were flitting to and fro .
Long Thistle wondered at the beauty round him ; and then he went among the shining Spirits , told his tale , and asked a gift .
But they answered like the Earth Spirits .
`` You must serve us first , and then we will gladly give you a robe of sunlight like our own . ''
And then they told him how they wafted flower-seeds over the earth , to beautify and brighten lonely spots ; how they watched above the blossoms by day , and scattered dews at night , brought sunlight into darkened places , and soft winds to refresh and cheer .
`` These are the things we do , '' said they , `` and you must aid us for a time . ''
And Thistle gladly went with the lovely Spirits ; by day he joined the sunlight and the breeze in their silent work ; by night , with Star-Light and her sister spirits , he flew over the moon-lit earth , dropping cool dew upon the folded flowers , and bringing happy dreams to sleeping mortals .
Many a kind deed was done , many a gentle word was spoken ; and each day lighter grew his heart , and stronger his power of giving joy to others .
At length Star-Light bade him work no more , and gladly gave him the gift he had won .
Then his second task was done , and he flew gayly back to the green earth and slumbering Lily-Bell .
The silvery moonlight shone upon her , as he came to give his second gift ; and the Brownie spoke more kindly than before .
`` One more trial , Thistle , and she will awake .
Go bravely forth and win your last and hardest gift . ''
Then with a light heart Thistle journeyed away to the brooks and rivers , seeking the Water Spirits .
But he looked in vain ; till , wandering through the forest where the Brownies took him captive , he stopped beside the quiet lake .
As he stood here he heard a sound of pain , and , looking in the tall grass at his side , he saw the dragon-fly whose kindness he once repayed by pain and sorrow , and who now lay suffering and alone .
Thistle bent tenderly beside him , saying , `` Dear Flutter , do not fear me .
I will gladly ease your pain , if you will let me ; I am your friend , and long to show you how I grieve for all the wrong I did you , when you were so kind to me .
Forgive , and let me help and comfort you . ''
Then he bound up the broken wing , and spoke so tenderly that Flutter doubted him no longer , and was his friend again .
Day by day did Thistle watch beside him , making little beds of cool , fresh moss for him to rest upon , fanning him when he slept , and singing sweet songs to cheer him when awake .
And often when poor Flutter longed to be dancing once again over the blue waves , the Fairy bore him in his arms to the lake , and on a broad leaf , with a green flag for a sail , they floated on the still water ; while the dragon-fly 's companions flew about them , playing merry games .
At length the broken wing was well , and Thistle said he must again seek the Water Spirits .
`` I can tell you where to find them , '' said Flutter ; `` you must follow yonder little brook , and it will lead you to the sea , where the Spirits dwell .
I would gladly do more for you , dear Thistle , but I can not , for they live deep beneath the waves .
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way ; and so farewell . ''
Thistle followed the little brook , as it flowed through field and valley , growing ever larger , till it reached the sea .
Here the wind blew freshly , and the great waves rolled and broke at Thistle 's feet , as he stood upon the shore , watching the billows dancing and sparkling in the sun .
`` How shall I find the Spirits in this great sea , with none to help or guide me ?
Yet it is my last task , and for Lily-Bell 's sake I must not fear or falter now , '' said Thistle .
So he flew hither and thither over the sea , looking through the waves .
Soon he saw , far below , the branches of the coral tree .
`` They must be here , '' thought he , and , folding his wings , he plunged into the deep , cold sea .
But he saw only fearful monsters and dark shapes that gathered round him ; and , trembling with fear , he struggled up again .
The great waves tossed him to and fro , and cast him bruised and faint upon the shore .
Here he lay weeping bitterly , till a voice beside him said , `` Poor little Elf , what has befallen you ?
These rough waves are not fit playmates for so delicate a thing as you .
Tell me your sorrow , and I will comfort you . ''
And Thistle , looking up , saw a white sea-bird at his side , who tried with friendly words to cheer him .
So he told all his wanderings , and how he sought the Sea Spirits .
`` Surely , if bee and blossom do their part to help you , birds should aid you too , '' said the Sea-bird .
`` I will call my friend , the Nautilus , and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the Spirits dwell . ''
So , spreading his great wings , he flew away , and soon Thistle saw a little boat come dancing over the waves , and wait beside the shore for him .
In he sprang .
Nautilus raised his little sail to the wind , and the light boat glided swiftly over the blue sea .
At last Thistle cried , `` I see lovely arches far below ; let me go , it is the Spirits ' home . ''
`` Nay , close your eyes , and trust to me .
I will bear you safely down , '' said Nautilus .
So Thistle closed his eyes , and listened to the murmur of the sea , as they sank slowly through the waves .
The soft sound lulled him to sleep , and when he awoke the boat was gone , and he stood among the Water Spirits , in their strange and lovely home .
Lofty arches of snow-white coral bent above him , and the walls of brightly tinted shells were wreathed with lovely sea-flowers , and the sunlight shining on the waves cast silvery shadows on the ground , where sparkling stones glowed in the sand .
A cool , fresh wind swept through the waving garlands of bright sea-moss , and the distant murmur of dashing waves came softly on the air .
Soon troops of graceful Spirits flitted by , and when they found the wondering Elf , they gathered round him , bringing pearl-shells heaped with precious stones , and all the rare , strange gifts that lie beneath the sea .
But Thistle wished for none of these , and when his tale was told , the kindly Spirits pitied him ; and little Pearl sighed , as she told him of the long and weary task he must perform , ere he could win a crown of snow-white pearls like those they wore .
But Thistle had gained strength and courage in his wanderings , and did not falter now , when they led him to a place among the coral-workers , and told him he must labor here , till the spreading branches reached the light and air , through the waves that danced above .
With a patient hope that he might yet be worthy of Lily-Bell , the Fairy left the lovely spirits and their pleasant home , to toil among the coral-builders , where all was strange and dim .
Long , long , he worked ; but still the waves rolled far above them , and his task was not yet done ; and many bitter tears poor Thistle shed , and sadly he pined for air and sunlight , the voice of birds , and breath of flowers .
Often , folded in the magic garments which the Spirits gave him , that he might pass unharmed among the fearful creatures dwelling there , he rose to the surface of the sea , and , gliding through the waves , gazed longingly upon the hills , now looking blue and dim so far away , or watched the flocks of summer birds , journeying to a warmer land ; and they brought sad memories of green old forests , and sunny fields , to the lonely little Fairy floating on the great , wild sea .
Day after day went by , and slowly Thistle 's task drew towards an end .
Busily toiled the coral-workers , but more busily toiled he ; insect and Spirit daily wondered more and more , at the industry and patience of the silent little Elf , who had a friendly word for all , though he never joined them in their sport .
Higher and higher grew the coral-boughs , and lighter grew the Fairy 's heart , while thoughts of dear Lily-Bell cheered him on , as day by day he steadily toiled ; and when at length the sun shone on his work , and it was done , he stayed but to take the garland he had won , and to thank the good Spirits for their love and care .
Then up through the cold , blue waves he swiftly glided , and , shaking the bright drops from his wings , soared singing up to the sunny sky .
On through the fragrant air went Thistle , looking with glad face upon the fair , fresh earth below , where flowers looked smiling up , and green trees bowed their graceful heads as if to welcome him .
Soon the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping rose before him , and as he passed along the cool , dim wood-paths , never had they seemed so fair .
But when he came where his little friend had slept , it was no longer the dark , silent spot where he last saw her .
Garlands hung from every tree , and the fairest flowers filled the air with their sweet breath .
Bird 's gay voices echoed far and wide , and the little brook went singing by , beneath the arching ferns that bent above it ; green leaves rustled in the summer wind , and the air was full of music .
But the fairest sight was Lily-Bell , as she lay on the couch of velvet moss that Fairy hands had spread .
The golden flower lay beside her , and the glittering robe was folded round her little form .
The warmest sunlight fell upon her , and the softest breezes lifted her shining hair .
Happy tears fell fast , as Thistle folded his arms around her , crying , `` O Lily-Bell , dear Lily-Bell , awake !
I have been true to you , and now my task is done . ''
Then , with a smile , Lily-Bell awoke , and looked with wondering eyes upon the beauty that had risen round her .
`` Dear Thistle , what mean these fair things , and why are we in this lovely place ? ''
`` Listen , Lily-Bell , '' said the Brownie King , as he appeared beside her .
And then he told all that Thistle had done to show his love for her ; how he had wandered far and wide to seek the Fairy gifts , and toiled long and hard to win them ; how he had been loving , true , and tender , when most lonely and forsaken .
`` Bird , bee , and blossom have forgiven him , and none is more loved and trusted now by all , than the once cruel Thistle , '' said the King , as he bent down to the happy Elf , who bowed low before him .
`` You have learned the beauty of a gentle , kindly heart , dear Thistle ; and you are now worthy to become the friend of her for whom you have done so much .
Place the crown upon her head , for she is Queen of all the Forest Fairies now . ''
And as the crown shone on the head that Lily-Bell bent down on Thistle 's breast , the forest seemed alive with little forms , who sprang from flower and leaf , and gathered round her , bringing gifts for their new Queen .
`` If I am Queen , then you are King , dear Thistle , '' said the Fairy .
`` Take the crown , and I will have a wreath of flowers .
You have toiled and suffered for my sake , and you alone should rule over these little Elves whose love you have won . ''
`` Keep your crown , Lily-Bell , for yonder come the Spirits with their gifts to Thistle , '' said the Brownie .
And , as he pointed with his wand , out from among the mossy roots of an old tree came trooping the Earth Spirits , their flower-bells ringing softly as they came , and their jewelled garments glittering in the sun .
On to where Thistledown stood beneath the shadow of the flowers , with Lily-Bell beside him , went the Spirits ; and then forth sprang little Sparkle , waving a golden flower , whose silvery music filled the air .
`` Dear Thistle , '' said the shining Spirit , `` what you toiled so faithfully to win for another , let us offer now as a token of our love for you . ''
As she ceased , down through the air came floating bands of lovely Air Spirits , bringing a shining robe , and they too told their love for the gentle Fairy who had dwelt with them .
Then softly on the breeze came distant music , growing ever nearer , till over the rippling waves came the singing Water Spirits , in their boats of many-colored shells ; and as they placed their glittering crown on Thistle 's head , loud rang the flowers , and joyously sang the birds , while all the Forest Fairies cried , with silvery voices , `` Lily-Bell and Thistledown !
Long live our King and Queen ! ''
`` Have you a tale for us too , dear Violet-Eye ? ''
said the Queen , as Zephyr ceased .
The little Elf thus named looked from among the flower-leaves where she sat , and with a smile replied , `` As I was weaving garlands in the field , I heard a primrose tell this tale to her friend Golden-Rod . ''
LITTLE BUD .
IN a great forest , high up among the green boughs , lived Bird Brown-Breast , and his bright-eyed little mate .
They were now very happy ; their home was done , the four blue eggs lay in the soft nest , and the little wife sat still and patient on them , while the husband sang , and told her charming tales , and brought her sweet berries and little worms .
Things went smoothly on , till one day she found in the nest a little white egg , with a golden band about it .
`` My friend , '' cried she , `` come and see !
Where can this fine egg have come from ?
My four are here , and this also ; what think you of it ? ''
The husband shook his head gravely , and said , `` Be not alarmed , my love ; it is doubtless some good Fairy who has given us this , and we shall find some gift within ; do not let us touch it , but do you sit carefully upon it , and we shall see in time what has been sent us . ''
So they said nothing about it , and soon their home had four little chirping children ; and then the white egg opened , and , behold , a little maiden lay singing within .
Then how amazed were they , and how they welcomed her , as she lay warm beneath the mother 's wing , and how the young birds did love her .
Great joy was in the forest , and proud were the parents of their family , and still more of the little one who had come to them ; while all the neighbors flocked in , to see Dame Brown-Breast 's little child .
And the tiny maiden talked to them , and sang so merrily , that they could have listened for ever .
Soon she was the joy of the whole forest , dancing from tree to tree , making every nest her home , and none were ever so welcome as little Bud ; and so they lived right merrily in the green old forest .
The father now had much to do to supply his family with food , and choice morsels did he bring little Bud .
The wild fruits were her food , the fresh dew in the flower-cups her drink , while the green leaves served her for little robes ; and thus she found garments in the flowers of the field , and a happy home with Mother Brown-Breast ; and all in the wood , from the stately trees to the little mosses in the turf , were friends to the merry child .
And each day she taught the young birds sweet songs , and as their gay music rang through the old forest , the stern , dark pines ceased their solemn waving , that they might hear the soft sounds stealing through the dim wood-paths , and mortal children came to listen , saying softly , `` Hear the flowers sing , and touch them not , for the Fairies are here . ''
Then came a band of sad little Elves to Bud , praying that they might hear the sweet music ; and when she took them by the hand , and spoke gently to them , they wept and said sadly , when she asked them whence they came , -- `` We dwelt once in Fairy-Land , and O how happy were we then !
But alas !
we were not worthy of so fair a home , and were sent forth into the cold world .
Look at our robes , they are like the withered leaves ; our wings are dim , our crowns are gone , and we lead sad , lonely lives in this dark forest .
Let us stay with you ; your gay music sounds like Fairy songs , and you have such a friendly way with you , and speak so gently to us .
It is good to be near one so lovely and so kind ; and you can tell us how we may again become fair and innocent .
Say we may stay with you , kind little maiden . ''
And Bud said , `` Yes , '' and they stayed ; but her kind little heart was grieved that they wept so sadly , and all she could say could not make them happy ; till at last she said , -- `` Do not weep , and I will go to Queen Dew-Drop , and beseech her to let you come back .
I will tell her that you are repentant , and will do anything to gain her love again ; that you are sad , and long to be forgiven .
This will I say , and more , and trust she will grant my prayer . ''
`` She will not say no to you , dear Bud , '' said the poor little Fairies ; `` she will love you as we do , and if we can but come again to our lost home , we can not give you thanks enough .
Go , Bud , and if there be power in Fairy gifts , you shall be as happy as our hearts ' best love can make you . ''
The tidings of Bud 's departure flew through the forest , and all her friends came to say farewell , as with the morning sun she would go ; and each brought some little gift , for the land of Fairies was far away , and she must journey long .
`` Nay , you shall not go on your feet , my child , '' said Mother Brown-Breast ; `` your friend Golden-Wing shall carry you .
Call him hither , that I may seat you rightly , for if you should fall off my heart would break . ''
Then up came Golden-Wing , and Bud was safely seated on the cushion of violet-leaves ; and it was really charming to see her merry little face , peeping from under the broad brim of her cow-slip hat , as her butterfly steed stood waving his bright wings in the sunlight .
Then came the bee with his yellow honey-bags , which he begged she would take , and the little brown spider that lived under the great leaves brought a veil for her hat , and besought her to wear it , lest the sun should shine too brightly ; while the ant came bringing a tiny strawberry , lest she should miss her favorite fruit .
The mother gave her good advice , and the papa stood with his head on one side , and his round eyes twinkling with delight , to think that his little Bud was going to Fairy-Land .
Then they all sang gayly together , till she passed out of sight over the hills , and they saw her no more .
And now Bud left the old forest far behind her .
Golden-Wing bore her swiftly along , and she looked down on the green mountains , and the peasant 's cottages , that stood among overshadowing trees ; and the earth looked bright , with its broad , blue rivers winding through soft meadows , the singing birds , and flowers , who kept their bright eyes ever on the sky .
And she sang gayly as they floated in the clear air , while her friend kept time with his waving wings , and ever as they went along all grew fairer ; and thus they came to Fairy-Land .
As Bud passed through the gates , she no longer wondered that the exiled Fairies wept and sorrowed for the lovely home they had lost .
Bright clouds floated in the sunny sky , casting a rainbow light on the Fairy palaces below , where the Elves were dancing ; while the low , sweet voices of the singing flowers sounded softly through the fragrant air , and mingled with the music of the rippling waves , as they flowed on beneath the blossoming vines that drooped above them .
All was bright and beautiful ; but kind little Bud would not linger , for the forms of the weeping Fairies were before her ; and though the blossoms nodded gayly on their stems to welcome her , and the soft winds kissed her cheek , she would not stay , but on to the Flower Palace she went , into a pleasant hall whose walls were formed of crimson roses , amid whose leaves sat little Elves , making sweet music on their harps .
When they saw Bud , they gathered round her , and led her through the flower-wreathed arches to a group of the most beautiful Fairies , who were gathered about a stately lily , in whose fragrant cup sat one whose purple robe and glittering crown told she was their Queen .
Bud knelt before her , and , while tears streamed down her little face , she told her errand , and pleaded earnestly that the exiled Fairies might be forgiven , and not be left to pine far from their friends and kindred .
And as she prayed , many wept with her ; and when she ceased , and waited for her answer , many knelt beside her , praying forgiveness for the unhappy Elves .
With tearful eyes , Queen Dew-Drop replied , -- `` Little maiden , your prayer has softened my heart .
They shall not be left sorrowing and alone , nor shall you go back without a kindly word to cheer and comfort them .
We will pardon their fault , and when they can bring hither a perfect Fairy crown , robe , and wand , they shall be again received as children of their loving Queen .
The task is hard , for none but the best and purest can form the Fairy garments ; yet with patience they may yet restore their robes to their former brightness .
Farewell , good little maiden ; come with them , for but for you they would have dwelt for ever without the walls of Fairy-Land . ''
`` Good speed to you , and farewell , '' cried they all , as , with loving messages to their poor friends , they bore her to the gates .
Day after day toiled little Bud , cheering the Fairies , who , angry and disappointed , would not listen to her gentle words , but turned away and sat alone weeping .
They grieved her kind heart with many cruel words ; but patiently she bore with them , and when they told her they could never perform so hard a task , and must dwell for ever in the dark forest , she answered gently , that the snow-white lily must be planted , and watered with repentant tears , before the robe of innocence could be won ; that the sun of love must shine in their hearts , before the light could return to their dim crowns , and deeds of kindness must be performed , ere the power would come again to their now useless wands .
Then they planted the lilies ; but they soon drooped and died , and no light came to their crowns .
They did no gentle deeds , but cared only for themselves ; and when they found their labor was in vain , they tried no longer , but sat weeping .
Bud , with ceaseless toil and patient care , tended the lilies , which bloomed brightly , the crowns grew bright , and in her hands the wands had power over birds and blossoms , for she was striving to give happiness to others , forgetful of herself .
And the idle Fairies , with thankful words , took the garments from her , and then with Bud went forth to Fairy-Land , and stood with beating hearts before the gates ; where crowds of Fairy friends came forth to welcome them .
But when Queen Dew-Drop touched them with her wand , as they passed in , the light faded from their crowns , their robes became like withered leaves , and their wands were powerless .
Amid the tears of all the Fairies , the Queen led them to the gates , and said , -- `` Farewell !
It is not in my power to aid you ; innocence and love are not within your hearts , and were it not for this untiring little maiden , who has toiled while you have wept , you never would have entered your lost home .
Go and strive again , for till all is once more fair and pure , I can not call you mine . ''
`` Farewell ! ''
sang the weeping Fairies , as the gates closed on their outcast friends ; who , humbled and broken-hearted , gathered around Bud ; and she , with cheering words , guided them back to the forest .
Time passed on , and the Fairies had done nothing to gain their lovely home again .
They wept no longer , but watched little Bud , as she daily tended the flowers , restoring their strength and beauty , or with gentle words flew from nest to nest , teaching the little birds to live happily together ; and wherever she went blessings fell , and loving hearts were filled with gratitude .
Then , one by one , the Elves secretly did some little work of kindness , and found a quiet joy come back to repay them .
Flowers looked lovingly up as they passed , birds sang to cheer them when sad thoughts made them weep .
And soon little Bud found out their gentle deeds , and her friendly words gave them new strength .
So day after day they followed her , and like a band of guardian spirits they flew far and wide , carrying with them joy and peace .
And not only birds and flowers blessed them , but human beings also ; for with tender hands they guided little children from danger , and kept their young hearts free from evil thoughts ; they whispered soothing words to the sick , and brought sweet odors and fair flowers to their lonely rooms .
They sent lovely visions to the old and blind , to make their hearts young and bright with happy thoughts .
But most tenderly did they watch over the poor and sorrowing , and many a poor mother blessed the unseen hands that laid food before her hungry little ones , and folded warm garments round their naked limbs .
Many a poor man wondered at the fair flowers that sprang up in his little garden-plot , cheering him with their bright forms , and making his dreary home fair with their loveliness , and looked at his once barren field , where now waved the golden corn , turning its broad leaves to the warm sun , and promising a store of golden ears to give him food ; while the care-worn face grew bright , and the troubled heart filled with gratitude towards the invisible spirits who had brought him such joy .
Thus time passed on , and though the exiled Fairies longed often for their home , still , knowing they did not deserve it , they toiled on , hoping one day to see the friends they had lost ; while the joy of their own hearts made their life full of happiness .
One day came little Bud to them , saying , -- `` Listen , dear friends .
I have a hard task to offer you .
It is a great sacrifice for you light loving Fairies to dwell through the long winter in the dark , cold earth , watching over the flower roots , to keep them free from the little grubs and worms that seek to harm them .
But in the sunny Spring when they bloom again , their love and gratitude will give you happy homes among their bright leaves .
`` It is a wearisome task , and I can give you no reward for all your tender care , but the blessings of the gentle flowers you will have saved from death .
Gladly would I aid you ; but my winged friends are preparing for their journey to warmer lands , and I must help them teach their little ones to fly , and see them safely on their way .
Then , through the winter , must I seek the dwellings of the poor and suffering , comfort the sick and lonely , and give hope and courage to those who in their poverty are led astray .
These things must I do ; but when the flowers bloom again I will be with you , to welcome back our friends from over the sea . ''
Then , with tears , the Fairies answered , `` Ah , good little Bud , you have taken the hardest task yourself , and who will repay you for all your deeds of tenderness and mercy in the great world ?
Should evil befall you , our hearts would break .
We will labor trustingly in the earth , and thoughts of you shall cheer us on ; for without you we had been worthless beings , and never known the joy that kindly actions bring .
Yes , dear Bud , we will gladly toil among the roots , that the fair flowers may wear their gayest robes to welcome you . ''
Then deep in the earth the Fairies dwelt , and no frost or snow could harm the blossoms they tended .
Every little seed was laid in the soft earth , watered , and watched .
Tender roots were folded in withered leaves , that no chilling drops might reach them ; and safely dreamed the flowers , till summer winds should call them forth ; while lighter grew each Fairy heart , as every gentle deed was tenderly performed .
At length the snow was gone , and they heard little voices calling them to come up ; but patiently they worked , till seed and root were green and strong .
Then , with eager feet , they hastened to the earth above , where , over hill and valley , bright flowers and budding trees smiled in the warm sunlight , blossoms bent lovingly before them , and rang their colored bells , till the fragrant air was full of music ; while the stately trees waved their great arms above them , and scattered soft leaves at their feet .
Then came the merry birds , making the wood alive with their gay voices , calling to one another , as they flew among the vines , building their little homes .
Long waited the Elves , and at last she came with Father Brown-Breast .
Happy days passed ; and summer flowers were in their fullest beauty , when Bud bade the Fairies come with her .
Mounted on bright-winged butterflies , they flew over forest and meadow , till with joyful eyes they saw the flower-crowned walls of Fairy-Land .
Before the gates they stood , and soon troops of loving Elves came forth to meet them .
And on through the sunny gardens they went , into the Lily Hall , where , among the golden stamens of a graceful flower , sat the Queen ; while on the broad , green leaves around it stood the brighteyed little maids of honor .
Then , amid the deep silence , little Bud , leading the Fairies to the throne , said , -- `` Dear Queen , I here bring back your subjects , wiser for their sorrow , better for their hard trial ; and now might any Queen be proud of them , and bow to learn from them that giving joy and peace to others brings it fourfold to us , bearing a double happiness in the blessings to those we help .
Through the dreary months , when they might have dwelt among fair Southern flowers , beneath a smiling sky , they toiled in the dark and silent earth , filling the hearts of the gentle Flower Spirits with grateful love , seeking no reward but the knowledge of their own good deeds , and the joy they always bring .
This they have done unmurmuringly and alone ; and now , far and wide , flower blessings fall upon them , and the summer winds bear the glad tidings unto those who droop in sorrow , and new joy and strength it brings , as they look longingly for the friends whose gentle care hath brought such happiness to their fair kindred .
`` Are they not worthy of your love , dear Queen ?
Have they not won their lovely home ?
Say they are pardoned , and you have gained the love of hearts pure as the snow-white robes now folded over them . ''
As Bud ceased , she touched the wondering Fairies with her wand , and the dark faded garments fell away ; and beneath , the robes of lily-leaves glittered pure and spotless in the sun-light .
Then , while happy tears fell , Queen Dew-Drop placed the bright crowns on the bowed heads of the kneeling Fairies , and laid before them the wands their own good deeds had rendered powerful .
They turned to thank little Bud for all her patient love , but she was gone ; and high above , in the clear air , they saw the little form journeying back to the quiet forest .
She needed no reward but the joy she had given .
The Fairy hearts were pure again , and her work was done ; yet all Fairy-Land had learned a lesson from gentle little Bud .
`` Now , little Sunbeam , what have you to tell us ? ''
said the Queen , looking down on a bright-eyed Elf , who sat half hidden in the deep moss at her feet .
`` I too , like Star-Twinkle , have nothing but a song to offer , '' replied the Fairy ; and then , while the nightingale 's sweet voice mingled with her own , she sang , -- CLOVER-BLOSSOM .
IN a quiet , pleasant meadow , Beneath a summer sky , Where green old trees their branches waved , And winds went singing by ; Where a little brook went rippling So musically low , And passing clouds cast shadows On the waving grass below ; Where low , sweet notes of brooding birds Stole out on the fragrant air , And golden sunlight shone undimmed On all most fresh and fair ; -- There bloomed a lovely sisterhood Of happy little flowers , Together in this pleasant home , Through quiet summer hours .
No rude hand came to gather them , No chilling winds to blight ; Warm sunbeams smiled on them by day , And soft dews fell at night .
So here , along the brook-side , Beneath the green old trees , The flowers dwelt among their friends , The sunbeams and the breeze .
One morning , as the flowers awoke , Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , A little worm came creeping by , And begged a shelter there .
`` Ah !
pity and love me , '' sighed the worm , `` I am lonely , poor , and weak ; A little spot for a resting-place , Dear flowers , is all I seek .
I am not fair , and have dwelt unloved By butterfly , bird , and bee .
They little knew that in this dark form Lay the beauty they yet may see .
Then let me lie in the deep green moss , And weave my little tomb , And sleep my long , unbroken sleep Till Spring 's first flowers come .
Then will I come in a fairer dress , And your gentle care repay By the grateful love of the humble worm ; Kind flowers , O let me stay ! ''
But the wild rose showed her little thorns , While her soft face glowed with pride ; The violet hid beneath the drooping ferns , And the daisy turned aside .
Little Houstonia scornfully laughed , As she danced on her slender stem ; While the cowslip bent to the rippling waves , And whispered the tale to them .
A blue-eyed grass looked down on the worm , As it silently turned away , And cried , `` Thou wilt harm our delicate leaves , And therefore thou canst not stay . ''
Then a sweet , soft voice , called out from far , `` Come hither , poor worm , to me ; The sun lies warm in this quiet spot , And I 'll share my home with thee . ''
The wondering flowers looked up to see Who had offered the worm a home : ' T was a clover-blossom , whose fluttering leaves Seemed beckoning him to come ; It dwelt in a sunny little nook , Where cool winds rustled by , And murmuring bees and butterflies came , On the flower 's breast to lie .
Down through the leaves the sunlight stole , And seemed to linger there , As if it loved to brighten the home Of one so sweet and fair .
Its rosy face smiled kindly down , As the friendless worm drew near ; And its low voice , softly whispering , said `` Poor thing , thou art welcome here ; Close at my side , in the soft green moss , Thou wilt find a quiet bed , Where thou canst softly sleep till Spring , With my leaves above thee spread .
I pity and love thee , friendless worm , Though thou art not graceful or fair ; For many a dark , unlovely form , Hath a kind heart dwelling there ; No more o'er the green and pleasant earth , Lonely and poor , shalt thou roam , For a loving friend hast thou found in me , And rest in my little home . ''
Then , deep in its quiet mossy bed , Sheltered from sun and shower , The grateful worm spun its winter tomb , In the shadow of the flower .
And Clover guarded well its rest , Till Autumn 's leaves were sere , Till all her sister flowers were gone , And her winter sleep drew near .
Then her withered leaves were softly spread O'er the sleeping worm below , Ere the faithful little flower lay Beneath the winter snow .
Spring came again , and the flowers rose From their quiet winter graves , And gayly danced on their slender stems , And sang with the rippling waves .
Softly the warm winds kissed their cheeks ; Brightly the sunbeams fell , As , one by one , they came again In their summer homes to dwell .
And little Clover bloomed once more , Rosy , and sweet , and fair , And patiently watched by the mossy bed , For the worm still slumbered there .
Then her sister flowers scornfully cried , As they waved in the summer air , `` The ugly worm was friendless and poor ; Little Clover , why shouldst thou care ?
Then watch no more , nor dwell alone , Away from thy sister flowers ; Come , dance and feast , and spend with us These pleasant summer hours .
We pity thee , foolish little flower , To trust what the false worm said ; He will not come in a fairer dress , For he lies in the green moss dead . ''
But little Clover still watched on , Alone in her sunny home ; She did not doubt the poor worm 's truth , And trusted he would come .
At last the small cell opened wide , And a glittering butterfly , From out the moss , on golden wings , Soared up to the sunny sky .
Then the wondering flowers cried aloud , `` Clover , thy watch was vain ; He only sought a shelter here , And never will come again . ''
And the unkind flowers danced for joy , When they saw him thus depart ; For the love of a beautiful butterfly Is dear to a flower 's heart .
They feared he would stay in Clover 's home , And her tender care repay ; So they danced for joy , when at last he rose And silently flew away .
Then little Clover bowed her head , While her soft tears fell like dew ; For her gentle heart was grieved , to find That her sisters ' words were true , And the insect she had watched so long When helpless , poor , and lone , Thankless for all her faithful care , On his golden wings had flown .
But as she drooped , in silent grief , She heard little Daisy cry , `` O sisters , look !
I see him now , Afar in the sunny sky ; He is floating back from Cloud-Land now , Borne by the fragrant air .
Spread wide your leaves , that he may choose The flower he deems most fair . ''
Then the wild rose glowed with a deeper blush , As she proudly waved on her stem ; The Cowslip bent to the clear blue waves , And made her mirror of them .
Little Houstonia merrily danced , And spread her white leaves wide ; While Daisy whispered her joy and hope , As she stood by her gay friends ' side .
Violet peeped from the tall green ferns , And lifted her soft blue eye To watch the glittering form , that shone Afar in the summer sky .
They thought no more of the ugly worm , Who once had wakened their scorn ; But looked and longed for the butterfly now , As the soft wind bore him on .
Nearer and nearer the bright form came , And fairer the blossoms grew ; Each welcomed him , in her sweetest tones ; Each offered her honey and dew .
But in vain did they beckon , and smile , and call , And wider their leaves unclose ; The glittering form still floated on , By Violet , Daisy , and Rose .
Lightly it flew to the pleasant home Of the flower most truly fair , On Clover 's breast he softly lit , And folded his bright wings there .
`` Dear flower , '' the butterfly whispered low , `` Long hast thou waited for me ; Now I am come , and my grateful love Shall brighten thy home for thee ; Thou hast loved and cared for me , when alone , Hast watched o'er me long and well ; And now will I strive to show the thanks The poor worm could not tell .
Sunbeam and breeze shall come to thee , And the coolest dews that fall ; Whate'er a flower can wish is thine , For thou art worthy all .
And the home thou shared with the friendless worm The butterfly 's home shall be ; And thou shalt find , dear , faithful flower , A loving friend in me . ''
Then , through the long , bright summer hours Through sunshine and through shower , Together in their happy home Dwelt butterfly and flower .
`` Ah , that is very lovely , '' cried the Elves , gathering round little Sunbeam as she ceased , to place a garland in her hair and praise her song .
`` Now , '' said the Queen , `` call hither Moon-light and Summer-Wind , for they have seen many pleasant things in their long wanderings , and will gladly tell us them . ''
`` Most joyfully will we do our best , dear Queen , '' said the Elves , as they folded their wings beside her .
`` Now , Summer-Wind , '' said Moonlight , `` till your turn comes , do you sit here and fan me while I tell this tale of LITTLE ANNIE 'S DREAM ; OR , THE FAIRY FLOWER .
IN a large and pleasant garden sat little Annie all alone , and she seemed very sad , for drops that were not dew fell fast upon the flowers beside her , who looked wonderingly up , and bent still nearer , as if they longed to cheer and comfort her .
The warm wind lifted up her shining hair and softly kissed her cheek , while the sunbeams , looking most kindly in her face , made little rainbows in her tears , and lingered lovingly about her .
But Annie paid no heed to sun , or wind , or flower ; still the bright tears fell , and she forgot all but her sorrow .
`` Little Annie , tell me why you weep , '' said a low voice in her ear ; and , looking up , the child beheld a little figure standing on a vine-leaf at her side ; a lovely face smiled on her , from amid bright locks of hair , and shining wings were folded on a white and glittering robe , that fluttered in the wind .
`` Who are you , lovely little thing ? ''
cried Annie , smiling through her tears .
`` I am a Fairy , little child , and am come to help and comfort you ; now tell me why you weep , and let me be your friend , '' replied the spirit , as she smiled more kindly still on Annie 's wondering face .
`` And are you really , then , a little Elf , such as I read of in my fairy books ?
Do you ride on butterflies , sleep in flower-cups , and live among the clouds ? ''
`` Yes , all these things I do , and many stranger still , that all your fairy books can never tell ; but now , dear Annie , '' said the Fairy , bending nearer , `` tell me why I found no sunshine on your face ; why are these great drops shining on the flowers , and why do you sit alone when BIRD and BEE are calling you to play ? ''
`` Ah , you will not love me any more if I should tell you all , '' said Annie , while the tears began to fall again ; `` I am not happy , for I am not good ; how shall I learn to be a patient , gentle child ?
good little Fairy , will you teach me how ? ''
`` Gladly will I aid you , Annie , and if you truly wish to be a happy child , you first must learn to conquer many passions that you cherish now , and make your heart a home for gentle feelings and happy thoughts ; the task is hard , but I will give this fairy flower to help and counsel you .
Bend hither , that I may place it in your breast ; no hand can take it hence , till I unsay the spell that holds it there . ''
As thus she spoke , the Elf took from her bosom a graceful flower , whose snow-white leaves shone with a strange , soft light .
`` This is a fairy flower , '' said the Elf , `` invisible to every eye save yours ; now listen while I tell its power , Annie .
When your heart is filled with loving thoughts , when some kindly deed has been done , some duty well performed , then from the flower there will arise the sweetest , softest fragrance , to reward and gladden you .
But when an unkind word is on your lips , when a selfish , angry feeling rises in your heart , or an unkind , cruel deed is to be done , then will you hear the soft , low chime of the flower-bell ; listen to its warning , let the word remain unspoken , the deed undone , and in the quiet joy of your own heart , and the magic perfume of your bosom flower , you will find a sweet reward . ''
`` O kind and generous Fairy , how can I ever thank you for this lovely gift ! ''
cried Annie .
`` I will be true , and listen to my little bell whenever it may ring .
But shall I never see YOU more ?
Ah !
if you would only stay with me , I should indeed be good . ''
`` I can not stay now , little Annie , '' said the Elf , `` but when another Spring comes round , I shall be here again , to see how well the fairy gift has done its work .
And now farewell , dear child ; be faithful to yourself , and the magic flower will never fade . ''
Then the gentle Fairy folded her little arms around Annie 's neck , laid a soft kiss on her cheek , and , spreading wide her shining wings , flew singing up among the white clouds floating in the sky .
And little Annie sat among her flowers , and watched with wondering joy the fairy blossom shining on her breast .
The pleasant days of Spring and Summer passed away , and in little Annie 's garden Autumn flowers were blooming everywhere , with each day 's sun and dew growing still more beautiful and bright ; but the fairy flower , that should have been the loveliest of all , hung pale and drooping on little Annie 's bosom ; its fragrance seemed quite gone , and the clear , low music of its warning chime rang often in her ear .
When first the Fairy placed it there , she had been pleased with her new gift , and for a while obeyed the fairy bell , and often tried to win some fragrance from the flower , by kind and pleasant words and actions ; then , as the Fairy said , she found a sweet reward in the strange , soft perfume of the magic blossom , as it shone upon her breast ; but selfish thoughts would come to tempt her , she would yield , and unkind words fell from her lips ; and then the flower drooped pale and scentless , the fairy bell rang mournfully , Annie would forget her better resolutions , and be again a selfish , wilful little child .
At last she tried no longer , but grew angry with the faithful flower , and would have torn it from her breast ; but the fairy spell still held it fast , and all her angry words but made it ring a louder , sadder peal .
Then she paid no heed to the silvery music sounding in her ear , and each day grew still more unhappy , discontented , and unkind ; so , when the Autumn days came round , she was no better for the gentle Fairy 's gift , and longed for Spring , that it might be returned ; for now the constant echo of the mournful music made her very sad .
One sunny morning , when the fresh , cool Winds were blowing , and not a cloud was in the sky , little Annie walked among her flowers , looking carefully into each , hoping thus to find the Fairy , who alone could take the magic blossom from her breast .
But she lifted up their drooping leaves , peeped into their dewy cups in vain ; no little Elf lay hidden there , and she turned sadly from them all , saying , `` I will go out into the fields and woods , and seek her there .
I will not listen to this tiresome music more , nor wear this withered flower longer . ''
So out into the fields she went , where the long grass rustled as she passed , and timid birds looked at her from their nests ; where lovely wild-flowers nodded in the wind , and opened wide their fragrant leaves , to welcome in the murmuring bees , while butterflies , like winged flowers , danced and glittered in the sun .
Little Annie looked , searched , and asked them all if any one could tell her of the Fairy whom she sought ; but the birds looked wonderingly at her with their soft , bright eyes , and still sang on ; the flowers nodded wisely on their stems , but did not speak , while butterfly and bee buzzed and fluttered away , one far too busy , the other too idle , to stay and tell her what she asked .
Then she went through broad fields of yellow grain , that waved around her like a golden forest ; here crickets chirped , grasshoppers leaped , and busy ants worked , but they could not tell her what she longed to know .
`` Now will I go among the hills , '' said Annie , `` she may be there . ''
So up and down the green hill-sides went her little feet ; long she searched and vainly she called ; but still no Fairy came .
Then by the river-side she went , and asked the gay dragon-flies , and the cool white lilies , if the Fairy had been there ; but the blue waves rippled on the white sand at her feet , and no voice answered her .
Then into the forest little Annie went ; and as she passed along the dim , cool paths , the wood-flowers smiled up in her face , gay squirrels peeped at her , as they swung amid the vines , and doves cooed softly as she wandered by ; but none could answer her .
So , weary with her long and useless search , she sat amid the ferns , and feasted on the rosy strawberries that grew beside her , watching meanwhile the crimson evening clouds that glowed around the setting sun .
The night-wind rustled through the boughs , rocking the flowers to sleep ; the wild birds sang their evening hymns , and all within the wood grew calm and still ; paler and paler grew the purple light , lower and lower drooped little Annie 's head , the tall ferns bent to shield her from the dew , the whispering pines sang a soft lullaby ; and when the Autumn moon rose up , her silver light shone on the child , where , pillowed on green moss , she lay asleep amid the wood-flowers in the dim old forest .
And all night long beside her stood the Fairy she had sought , and by elfin spell and charm sent to the sleeping child this dream .
Little Annie dreamed she sat in her own garden , as she had often sat before , with angry feelings in her heart , and unkind words upon her lips .
The magic flower was ringing its soft warning , but she paid no heed to anything , save her own troubled thoughts ; thus she sat , when suddenly a low voice whispered in her ear , -- `` Little Annie , look and see the evil things that you are cherishing ; I will clothe in fitting shapes the thoughts and feelings that now dwell within your heart , and you shall see how great their power becomes , unless you banish them for ever . ''
Then Annie saw , with fear and wonder , that the angry words she uttered changed to dark , unlovely forms , each showing plainly from what fault or passion it had sprung .
Some of the shapes had scowling faces and bright , fiery eyes ; these were the spirits of Anger .
Others , with sullen , anxious looks , seemed gathering up all they could reach , and Annie saw that the more they gained , the less they seemed to have ; and these she knew were shapes of Selfishness .
Spirits of Pride were there , who folded their shadowy garments round them , and turned scornfully away from all the rest .
These and many others little Annie saw , which had come from her own heart , and taken form before her eyes .
When first she saw them , they were small and weak ; but as she looked they seemed to grow and gather strength , and each gained a strange power over her .
She could not drive them from her sight , and they grew ever stronger , darker , and more unlovely to her eyes .
They seemed to cast black shadows over all around , to dim the sunshine , blight the flowers , and drive away all bright and lovely things ; while rising slowly round her Annie saw a high , dark wall , that seemed to shut out everything she loved ; she dared not move , or speak , but , with a strange fear at her heart , sat watching the dim shapes that hovered round her .
Higher and higher rose the shadowy wall , slowly the flowers near her died , lingeringly the sunlight faded ; but at last they both were gone , and left her all alone behind the gloomy wall .
Then the spirits gathered round her , whispering strange things in her ear , bidding her obey , for by her own will she had yielded up her heart to be their home , and she was now their slave .
Then she could hear no more , but , sinking down among the withered flowers , wept sad and bitter tears , for her lost liberty and joy ; then through the gloom there shone a faint , soft light , and on her breast she saw her fairy flower , upon whose snow-white leaves her tears lay shining .
Clearer and brighter grew the radiant light , till the evil spirits turned away to the dark shadow of the wall , and left the child alone .
The light and perfume of the flower seemed to bring new strength to Annie , and she rose up , saying , as she bent to kiss the blossom on her breast , `` Dear flower , help and guide me now , and I will listen to your voice , and cheerfully obey my faithful fairy bell . ''
Then in her dream she felt how hard the spirits tried to tempt and trouble her , and how , but for her flower , they would have led her back , and made all dark and dreary as before .
Long and hard she struggled , and tears often fell ; but after each new trial , brighter shone her magic flower , and sweeter grew its breath , while the spirits lost still more their power to tempt her .
Meanwhile , green , flowering vines crept up the high , dark wall , and hid its roughness from her sight ; and over these she watched most tenderly , for soon , wherever green leaves and flowers bloomed , the wall beneath grew weak , and fell apart .
Thus little Annie worked and hoped , till one by one the evil spirits fled away , and in their place came shining forms , with gentle eyes and smiling lips , who gathered round her with such loving words , and brought such strength and joy to Annie 's heart , that nothing evil dared to enter in ; while slowly sank the gloomy wall , and , over wreaths of fragrant flowers , she passed out into the pleasant world again , the fairy gift no longer pale and drooping , but now shining like a star upon her breast .
Then the low voice spoke again in Annie 's sleeping ear , saying , `` The dark , unlovely passions you have looked upon are in your heart ; watch well while they are few and weak , lest they should darken your whole life , and shut out love and happiness for ever .
Remember well the lesson of the dream , dear child , and let the shining spirits make your heart their home . ''
And with that voice sounding in her ear , little Annie woke to find it was a dream ; but like other dreams it did not pass away ; and as she sat alone , bathed in the rosy morning light , and watched the forest waken into life , she thought of the strange forms she had seen , and , looking down upon the flower on her breast , she silently resolved to strive , as she had striven in her dream , to bring back light and beauty to its faded leaves , by being what the Fairy hoped to render her , a patient , gentle little child .
And as the thought came to her mind , the flower raised its drooping head , and , looking up into the earnest little face bent over it , seemed by its fragrant breath to answer Annie 's silent thought , and strengthen her for what might come .
Meanwhile the forest was astir , birds sang their gay good-morrows from tree to tree , while leaf and flower turned to greet the sun , who rose up smiling on the world ; and so beneath the forest boughs and through the dewy fields went little Annie home , better and wiser for her dream .
Autumn flowers were dead and gone , yellow leaves lay rustling on the ground , bleak winds went whistling through the naked trees , and cold , white Winter snow fell softly down ; yet now , when all without looked dark and dreary , on little Annie 's breast the fairy flower bloomed more beautiful than ever .
The memory of her forest dream had never passed away , and through trial and temptation she had been true , and kept her resolution still unbroken ; seldom now did the warning bell sound in her ear , and seldom did the flower 's fragrance cease to float about her , or the fairy light to brighten all whereon it fell .
So , through the long , cold Winter , little Annie dwelt like a sunbeam in her home , each day growing richer in the love of others , and happier in herself ; often was she tempted , but , remembering her dream , she listened only to the music of the fairy bell , and the unkind thought or feeling fled away , the smiling spirits of gentleness and love nestled in her heart , and all was bright again .
So better and happier grew the child , fairer and sweeter grew the flower , till Spring came smiling over the earth , and woke the flowers , set free the streams , and welcomed back the birds ; then daily did the happy child sit among her flowers , longing for the gentle Elf to come again , that she might tell her gratitude for all the magic gift had done .
At length , one day , as she sat singing in the sunny nook where all her fairest flowers bloomed , weary with gazing at the far-off sky for the little form she hoped would come , she bent to look with joyful love upon her bosom flower ; and as she looked , its folded leaves spread wide apart , and , rising slowly from the deep white cup , appeared the smiling face of the lovely Elf whose coming she had waited for so long .
`` Dear Annie , look for me no longer ; I am here on your own breast , for you have learned to love my gift , and it has done its work most faithfully and well , '' the Fairy said , as she looked into the happy child 's bright face , and laid her little arms most tenderly about her neck .
`` And now have I brought another gift from Fairy-Land , as a fit reward for you , dear child , '' she said , when Annie had told all her gratitude and love ; then , touching the child with her shining wand , the Fairy bid her look and listen silently .
And suddenly the world seemed changed to Annie ; for the air was filled with strange , sweet sounds , and all around her floated lovely forms .
In every flower sat little smiling Elves , singing gayly as they rocked amid the leaves .
On every breeze , bright , airy spirits came floating by ; some fanned her cheek with their cool breath , and waved her long hair to and fro , while others rang the flower-bells , and made a pleasant rustling among the leaves .
In the fountain , where the water danced and sparkled in the sun , astride of every drop she saw merry little spirits , who plashed and floated in the clear , cool waves , and sang as gayly as the flowers , on whom they scattered glittering dew .
The tall trees , as their branches rustled in the wind , sang a low , dreamy song , while the waving grass was filled with little voices she had never heard before .
Butterflies whispered lovely tales in her ear , and birds sang cheerful songs in a sweet language she had never understood before .
Earth and air seemed filled with beauty and with music she had never dreamed of until now .
`` O tell me what it means , dear Fairy !
is it another and a lovelier dream , or is the earth in truth so beautiful as this ? ''
she cried , looking with wondering joy upon the Elf , who lay upon the flower in her breast .
`` Yes , it is true , dear child , '' replied the Fairy , `` and few are the mortals to whom we give this lovely gift ; what to you is now so full of music and of light , to others is but a pleasant summer world ; they never know the language of butterfly or bird or flower , and they are blind to all that I have given you the power to see .
These fair things are your friends and playmates now , and they will teach you many pleasant lessons , and give you many happy hours ; while the garden where you once sat , weeping sad and bitter tears , is now brightened by your own happiness , filled with loving friends by your own kindly thoughts and feelings ; and thus rendered a pleasant summer home for the gentle , happy child , whose bosom flower will never fade .
And now , dear Annie , I must go ; but every Springtime , with the earliest flowers , will I come again to visit you , and bring some fairy gift .
Guard well the magic flower , that I may find all fair and bright when next I come . ''
Then , with a kind farewell , the gentle Fairy floated upward through the sunny air , smiling down upon the child , until she vanished in the soft , white clouds , and little Annie stood alone in her enchanted garden , where all was brightened with the radiant light , and fragrant with the perfume of her fairy flower .
When Moonlight ceased , Summer-Wind laid down her rose-leaf fan , and , leaning back in her acorn cup , told this tale of RIPPLE , THE WATER-SPIRIT .
DOWN in the deep blue sea lived Ripple , a happy little Water-Spirit ; all day long she danced beneath the coral arches , made garlands of bright ocean flowers , or floated on the great waves that sparkled in the sunlight ; but the pastime that she loved best was lying in the many-colored shells upon the shore , listening to the low , murmuring music the waves had taught them long ago ; and here for hours the little Spirit lay watching the sea and sky , while singing gayly to herself .
But when tempests rose , she hastened down below the stormy billows , to where all was calm and still , and with her sister Spirits waited till it should be fair again , listening sadly , meanwhile , to the cries of those whom the wild waves wrecked and cast into the angry sea , and who soon came floating down , pale and cold , to the Spirits ' pleasant home ; then they wept pitying tears above the lifeless forms , and laid them in quiet graves , where flowers bloomed , and jewels sparkled in the sand .
This was Ripple 's only grief , and she often thought of those who sorrowed for the friends they loved , who now slept far down in the dim and silent coral caves , and gladly would she have saved the lives of those who lay around her ; but the great ocean was far mightier than all the tender-hearted Spirits dwelling in its bosom .
Thus she could only weep for them , and lay them down to sleep where no cruel waves could harm them more .
One day , when a fearful storm raged far and wide , and the Spirits saw great billows rolling like heavy clouds above their heads , and heard the wild winds sounding far away , down through the foaming waves a little child came floating to their home ; its eyes were closed as if in sleep , the long hair fell like sea-weed round its pale , cold face , and the little hands still clasped the shells they had been gathering on the beach , when the great waves swept it into the troubled sea .
With tender tears the Spirits laid the little form to rest upon its bed of flowers , and , singing mournful songs , as if to make its sleep more calm and deep , watched long and lovingly above it , till the storm had died away , and all was still again .
While Ripple sang above the little child , through the distant roar of winds and waves she heard a wild , sorrowing voice , that seemed to call for help .
Long she listened , thinking it was but the echo of their own plaintive song , but high above the music still sounded the sad , wailing cry .
Then , stealing silently away , she glided up through foam and spray , till , through the parting clouds , the sunlight shone upon her from the tranquil sky ; and , guided by the mournful sound , she floated on , till , close before her on the beach , she saw a woman stretching forth her arms , and with a sad , imploring voice praying the restless sea to give her back the little child it had so cruelly borne away .
But the waves dashed foaming up among the bare rocks at her feet , mingling their cold spray with her tears , and gave no answer to her prayer .
When Ripple saw the mother 's grief , she longed to comfort her ; so , bending tenderly beside her , where she knelt upon the shore , the little Spirit told her how her child lay softly sleeping , far down in a lovely place , where sorrowing tears were shed , and gentle hands laid garlands over him .
But all in vain she whispered kindly words ; the weeping mother only cried , -- `` Dear Spirit , can you use no charm or spell to make the waves bring back my child , as full of life and strength as when they swept him from my side ?
O give me back my little child , or let me lie beside him in the bosom of the cruel sea . ''
`` Most gladly will I help you if I can , though I have little power to use ; then grieve no more , for I will search both earth and sea , to find some friend who can bring back all you have lost .
Watch daily on the shore , and if I do not come again , then you will know my search has been in vain .
Farewell , poor mother , you shall see your little child again , if Fairy power can win him back . ''
And with these cheering words Ripple sprang into the sea ; while , smiling through her tears , the woman watched the gentle Spirit , till her bright crown vanished in the waves .
When Ripple reached her home , she hastened to the palace of the Queen , and told her of the little child , the sorrowing mother , and the promise she had made .
`` Good little Ripple , '' said the Queen , when she had told her all , `` your promise never can be kept ; there is no power below the sea to work this charm , and you can never reach the Fire-Spirits ' home , to win from them a flame to warm the little body into life .
I pity the poor mother , and would most gladly help her ; but alas !
I am a Spirit like yourself , and can not serve you as I long to do . ''
`` Ah , dear Queen !
if you had seen her sorrow , you too would seek to keep the promise I have made .
I can not let her watch for ME in vain , till I have done my best : then tell me where the Fire-Spirits dwell , and I will ask of them the flame that shall give life to the little child and such great happiness to the sad , lonely mother : tell me the path , and let me go . ''
`` It is far , far away , high up above the sun , where no Spirit ever dared to venture yet , '' replied the Queen .
`` I can not show the path , for it is through the air .
Dear Ripple , do not go , for you can never reach that distant place : some harm most surely will befall ; and then how shall we live , without our dearest , gentlest Spirit ?
Stay here with us in your own pleasant home , and think more of this , for I can never let you go . ''
But Ripple would not break the promise she had made , and besought so earnestly , and with such pleading words , that the Queen at last with sorrow gave consent , and Ripple joyfully prepared to go .
She , with her sister Spirits , built up a tomb of delicate , bright-colored shells , wherein the child might lie , till she should come to wake him into life ; then , praying them to watch most faithfully above it , she said farewell , and floated bravely forth , on her long , unknown journey , far away .
`` I will search the broad earth till I find a path up to the sun , or some kind friend who will carry me ; for , alas !
I have no wings , and can not glide through the blue air as through the sea , '' said Ripple to herself , as she went dancing over the waves , which bore her swiftly onward towards a distant shore .
Long she journeyed through the pathless ocean , with no friends to cheer her , save the white sea-birds who went sweeping by , and only stayed to dip their wide wings at her side , and then flew silently away .
Sometimes great ships sailed by , and then with longing eyes did the little Spirit gaze up at the faces that looked down upon the sea ; for often they were kind and pleasant ones , and she gladly would have called to them and asked them to be friends .
But they would never understand the strange , sweet language that she spoke , or even see the lovely face that smiled at them above the waves ; her blue , transparent garments were but water to their eyes , and the pearl chains in her hair but foam and sparkling spray ; so , hoping that the sea would be most gentle with them , silently she floated on her way , and left them far behind .
At length green hills were seen , and the waves gladly bore the little Spirit on , till , rippling gently over soft white sand , they left her on the pleasant shore .
`` Ah , what a lovely place it is ! ''
said Ripple , as she passed through sunny valleys , where flowers began to bloom , and young leaves rustled on the trees .
`` Why are you all so gay , dear birds ? ''
she asked , as their cheerful voices sounded far and near ; `` is there a festival over the earth , that all is so beautiful and bright ? ''
`` Do you not know that Spring is coming ?
The warm winds whispered it days ago , and we are learning the sweetest songs , to welcome her when she shall come , '' sang the lark , soaring away as the music gushed from his little throat .
`` And shall I see her , Violet , as she journeys over the earth ? ''
asked Ripple again .
`` Yes , you will meet her soon , for the sunlight told me she was near ; tell her we long to see her again , and are waiting to welcome her back , '' said the blue flower , dancing for joy on her stem , as she nodded and smiled on the Spirit .
`` I will ask Spring where the Fire-Spirits dwell ; she travels over the earth each year , and surely can show me the way , '' thought Ripple , as she went journeying on .
Soon she saw Spring come smiling over the earth ; sunbeams and breezes floated before , and then , with her white garments covered with flowers , with wreaths in her hair , and dew-drops and seeds falling fast from her hands the beautiful season came singing by .
`` Dear Spring , will you listen , and help a poor little Spirit , who seeks far and wide for the Fire-Spirits ' home ? ''
cried Ripple ; and then told why she was there , and begged her to tell what she sought .
`` The Fire-Spirits ' home is far , far away , and I can not guide you there ; but Summer is coming behind me , '' said Spring , `` and she may know better than I .
But I will give you a breeze to help you on your way ; it will never tire nor fail , but bear you easily over land and sea .
Farewell , little Spirit !
I would gladly do more , but voices are calling me far and wide , and I can not stay . ''
`` Many thanks , kind Spring ! ''
cried Ripple , as she floated away on the breeze ; `` give a kindly word to the mother who waits on the shore , and tell her I have not forgotten my vow , but hope soon to see her again . ''
Then Spring flew on with her sunshine and flowers , and Ripple went swiftly over hill and vale , till she came to the land where Summer was dwelling .
Here the sun shone warmly down on the early fruit , the winds blew freshly over fields of fragrant hay , and rustled with a pleasant sound among the green leaves in the forests ; heavy dews fell softly down at night , and long , bright days brought strength and beauty to the blossoming earth .
`` Now I must seek for Summer , '' said Ripple , as she sailed slowly through the sunny sky .
`` I am here , what would you with me , little Spirit ? ''
said a musical voice in her ear ; and , floating by her side , she saw a graceful form , with green robes fluttering in the air , whose pleasant face looked kindly on her , from beneath a crown of golden sunbeams that cast a warm , bright glow on all beneath .
Then Ripple told her tale , and asked where she should go ; but Summer answered , -- `` I can tell no more than my young sister Spring where you may find the Spirits that you seek ; but I too , like her , will give a gift to aid you .
Take this sunbeam from my crown ; it will cheer and brighten the most gloomy path through which you pass .
Farewell !
I shall carry tidings of you to the watcher by the sea , if in my journey round the world I find her there . ''
And Summer , giving her the sunbeam , passed away over the distant hills , leaving all green and bright behind her .
So Ripple journeyed on again , till the earth below her shone with yellow harvests waving in the sun , and the air was filled with cheerful voices , as the reapers sang among the fields or in the pleasant vineyards , where purple fruit hung gleaming through the leaves ; while the sky above was cloudless , and the changing forest-trees shone like a many-colored garland , over hill and plain ; and here , along the ripening corn-fields , with bright wreaths of crimson leaves and golden wheat-ears in her hair and on her purple mantle , stately Autumn passed , with a happy smile on her calm face , as she went scattering generous gifts from her full arms .
But when the wandering Spirit came to her , and asked for what she sought , this season , like the others , could not tell her where to go ; so , giving her a yellow leaf , Autumn said , as she passed on , -- `` Ask Winter , little Ripple , when you come to his cold home ; he knows the Fire-Spirits well , for when he comes they fly to the earth , to warm and comfort those dwelling there ; and perhaps he can tell you where they are .
So take this gift of mine , and when you meet his chilly winds , fold it about you , and sit warm beneath its shelter , till you come to sunlight again .
I will carry comfort to the patient woman , as my sisters have already done , and tell her you are faithful still . ''
Then on went the never-tiring Breeze , over forest , hill , and field , till the sky grew dark , and bleak winds whistled by .
Then Ripple , folded in the soft , warm leaf , looked sadly down on the earth , that seemed to lie so desolate and still beneath its shroud of snow , and thought how bitter cold the leaves and flowers must be ; for the little Water-Spirit did not know that Winter spread a soft white covering above their beds , that they might safely sleep below till Spring should waken them again .
So she went sorrowfully on , till Winter , riding on the strong North-Wind , came rushing by , with a sparkling ice-crown in his streaming hair , while from beneath his crimson cloak , where glittering frost-work shone like silver threads , he scattered snow-flakes far and wide .
`` What do you seek with me , fair little Spirit , that you come so bravely here amid my ice and snow ?
Do not fear me ; I am warm at heart , though rude and cold without , '' said Winter , looking kindly on her , while a bright smile shone like sunlight on his pleasant face , as it glowed and glistened in the frosty air .
When Ripple told him why she had come , he pointed upward , where the sunlight dimly shone through the heavy clouds , saying , -- `` Far off there , beside the sun , is the Fire-Spirits ' home ; and the only path is up , through cloud and mist .
It is a long , strange path , for a lonely little Spirit to be going ; the Fairies are wild , wilful things , and in their play may harm and trouble you .
Come back with me , and do not go this dangerous journey to the sky .
I 'll gladly bear you home again , if you will come . ''
But Ripple said , `` I can not turn back now , when I am nearly there .
The Spirits surely will not harm me , when I tell them why I am come ; and if I win the flame , I shall be the happiest Spirit in the sea , for my promise will be kept , and the poor mother happy once again .
So farewell , Winter !
Speak to her gently , and tell her to hope still , for I shall surely come . ''
`` Adieu , little Ripple !
May good angels watch above you !
Journey bravely on , and take this snow-flake that will never melt , as MY gift , '' Winter cried , as the North-Wind bore him on , leaving a cloud of falling snow behind .
`` Now , dear Breeze , '' said Ripple , `` fly straight upward through the air , until we reach the place we have so long been seeking ; Sunbeam shall go before to light the way , Yellow-leaf shall shelter me from heat and rain , while Snow-flake shall lie here beside me till it comes of use .
So farewell to the pleasant earth , until we come again .
And now away , up to the sun ! ''
When Ripple first began her airy journey , all was dark and dreary ; heavy clouds lay piled like hills around her , and a cold mist filled the air but the Sunbeam , like a star , lit up the way , the leaf lay warmly round her , and the tireless wind went swiftly on .
Higher and higher they floated up , still darker and darker grew the air , closer the damp mist gathered , while the black clouds rolled and tossed , like great waves , to and fro .
`` Ah ! ''
sighed the weary little Spirit , `` shall I never see the light again , or feel the warm winds on my cheek ?
It is a dreary way indeed , and but for the Seasons ' gifts I should have perished long ago ; but the heavy clouds MUST pass away at last , and all be fair again .
So hasten on , good Breeze , and bring me quickly to my journey 's end . ''
Soon the cold vapors vanished from her path , and sunshine shone upon her pleasantly ; so she went gayly on , till she came up among the stars , where many new , strange sights were to be seen .
With wondering eyes she looked upon the bright worlds that once seemed dim and distant , when she gazed upon them from the sea ; but now they moved around her , some shining with a softly radiant light , some circled with bright , many-colored rings , while others burned with a red , angry glare .
Ripple would have gladly stayed to watch them longer , for she fancied low , sweet voices called her , and lovely faces seemed to look upon her as she passed ; but higher up still , nearer to the sun , she saw a far-off light , that glittered like a brilliant crimson star , and seemed to cast a rosy glow along the sky .
`` The Fire-Spirits surely must be there , and I must stay no longer here , '' said Ripple .
So steadily she floated on , till straight before her lay a broad , bright path , that led up to a golden arch , beyond which she could see shapes flitting to and fro .
As she drew near , brighter glowed the sky , hotter and hotter grew the air , till Ripple 's leaf-cloak shrivelled up , and could no longer shield her from the heat ; then she unfolded the white snow-flake , and , gladly wrapping the soft , cool mantle round her , entered through the shining arch .
Through the red mist that floated all around her , she could see high walls of changing light , where orange , blue , and violet flames went flickering to and fro , making graceful figures as they danced and glowed ; and underneath these rainbow arches , little Spirits glided , far and near , wearing crowns of fire , beneath which flashed their wild , bright eyes ; and as they spoke , sparks dropped quickly from their lips , and Ripple saw with wonder , through their garments of transparent light , that in each Fairy 's breast there burned a steady flame , that never wavered or went out .
As thus she stood , the Spirits gathered round her , and their hot breath would have scorched her , but she drew the snow-cloak closer round her , saying , -- `` Take me to your Queen , that I may tell her why I am here , and ask for what I seek . ''
So , through long halls of many-colored fire , they led her to a Spirit fairer than the rest , whose crown of flames waved to and fro like golden plumes , while , underneath her violet robe , the light within her breast glowed bright and strong .
`` This is our Queen , '' the Spirits said , bending low before her , as she turned her gleaming eyes upon the stranger they had brought .
Then Ripple told how she had wandered round the world in search of them , how the Seasons had most kindly helped her on , by giving Sun-beam , Breeze , Leaf , and Flake ; and how , through many dangers , she had come at last to ask of them the magic flame that could give life to the little child again .
When she had told her tale , the spirits whispered earnestly among themselves , while sparks fell thick and fast with every word ; at length the Fire-Queen said aloud , -- `` We can not give the flame you ask , for each of us must take a part of it from our own breasts ; and this we will not do , for the brighter our bosom-fire burns , the lovelier we are .
So do not ask us for this thing ; but any other gift we will most gladly give , for we feel kindly towards you , and will serve you if we may . ''
But Ripple asked no other boon , and , weeping sadly , begged them not to send her back without the gift she had come so far to gain .
`` O dear , warm-hearted Spirits !
give me each a little light from your own breasts , and surely they will glow the brighter for this kindly deed ; and I will thankfully repay it if I can . ''
As thus she spoke , the Queen , who had spied out a chain of jewels Ripple wore upon her neck , replied , -- `` If you will give me those bright , sparkling stones , I will bestow on you a part of my own flame ; for we have no such lovely things to wear about our necks , and I desire much to have them .
Will you give it me for what I offer , little Spirit ? ''
Joyfully Ripple gave her the chain ; but , as soon as it touched her hand , the jewels melted like snow , and fell in bright drops to the ground ; at this the Queen 's eyes flashed , and the Spirits gathered angrily about poor Ripple , who looked sadly at the broken chain , and thought in vain what she could give , to win the thing she longed so earnestly for .
`` I have many fairer gems than these , in my home below the sea ; and I will bring all I can gather far and wide , if you will grant my prayer , and give me what I seek , '' she said , turning gently to the fiery Spirits , who were hovering fiercely round her .
`` You must bring us each a jewel that will never vanish from our hands as these have done , '' they said , `` and we will each give of our fire ; and when the child is brought to life , you must bring hither all the jewels you can gather from the depths of the sea , that we may try them here among the flames ; but if they melt away like these , then we shall keep you prisoner , till you give us back the light we lend .
If you consent to this , then take our gift , and journey home again ; but fail not to return , or we shall seek you out . ''
And Ripple said she would consent , though she knew not if the jewels could be found ; still , thinking of the promise she had made , she forgot all else , and told the Spirits what they asked most surely should be done .
So each one gave a little of the fire from their breasts , and placed the flame in a crystal vase , through which it shone and glittered like a star .
Then , bidding her remember all she had promised them , they led her to the golden arch , and said farewell .
So , down along the shining path , through mist and cloud , she travelled back ; till , far below , she saw the broad blue sea she left so long ago .
Gladly she plunged into the clear , cool waves , and floated back to her pleasant home ; where the Spirits gathered joyfully about her , listening with tears and smiles , as she told all her many wanderings , and showed the crystal vase that she had brought .
`` Now come , '' said they , `` and finish the good work you have so bravely carried on . ''
So to the quiet tomb they went , where , like a marble image , cold and still , the little child was lying .
Then Ripple placed the flame upon his breast , and watched it gleam and sparkle there , while light came slowly back into the once dim eyes , a rosy glow shone over the pale face , and breath stole through the parted lips ; still brighter and warmer burned the magic fire , until the child awoke from his long sleep , and looked in smiling wonder at the faces bending over him .
Then Ripple sang for joy , and , with her sister Spirits , robed the child in graceful garments , woven of bright sea-weed , while in his shining hair they wreathed long garlands of their fairest flowers , and on his little arms hung chains of brilliant shells .
`` Now come with us , dear child , '' said Ripple ; `` we will bear you safely up into the sunlight and the pleasant air ; for this is not your home , and yonder , on the shore , there waits a loving friend for you . ''
So up they went , through foam and spray , till on the beach , where the fresh winds played among her falling hair , and the waves broke sparkling at her feet , the lonely mother still stood , gazing wistfully across the sea .
Suddenly , upon a great blue billow that came rolling in , she saw the Water-Spirits smiling on her ; and high aloft , in their white gleaming arms , her child stretched forth his hands to welcome her ; while the little voice she so longed to hear again cried gayly , -- `` See , dear mother , I am come ; and look what lovely things the gentle Spirits gave , that I might seem more beautiful to you . ''
Then gently the great wave broke , and rolled back to the sea , leaving Ripple on the shore , and the child clasped in his mother 's arms .
`` O faithful little Spirit !
I would gladly give some precious gift to show my gratitude for this kind deed ; but I have nothing save this chain of little pearls : they are the tears I shed , and the sea has changed them thus , that I might offer them to you , '' the happy mother said , when her first joy was passed , and Ripple turned to go .
`` Yes , I will gladly wear your gift , and look upon it as my fairest ornament , '' the Water-Spirit said ; and with the pearls upon her breast , she left the shore , where the child was playing gayly to and fro , and the mother 's glad smile shone upon her , till she sank beneath the waves .
And now another task was to be done ; her promise to the Fire-Spirits must be kept .
So far and wide she searched among the caverns of the sea , and gathered all the brightest jewels shining there ; and then upon her faithful Breeze once more went journeying through the sky .
The Spirits gladly welcomed her , and led her to the Queen , before whom she poured out the sparkling gems she had gathered with such toil and care ; but when the Spirits tried to form them into crowns , they trickled from their hands like colored drops of dew , and Ripple saw with fear and sorrow how they melted one by one away , till none of all the many she had brought remained .
Then the Fire-Spirits looked upon her angrily , and when she begged them to be merciful , and let her try once more , saying , -- `` Do not keep me prisoner here .
I can not breathe the flames that give you life , and but for this snow-mantle I too should melt away , and vanish like the jewels in your hands .
O dear Spirits , give me some other task , but let me go from this warm place , where all is strange and fearful to a Spirit of the sea . ''
They would not listen ; and drew nearer , saying , while bright sparks showered from their lips , `` We will not let you go , for you have promised to be ours if the gems you brought proved worthless ; so fling away this cold white cloak , and bathe with us in the fire fountains , and help us bring back to our bosom flames the light we gave you for the child . ''
Then Ripple sank down on the burning floor , and felt that her life was nearly done ; for she well knew the hot air of the fire-palace would be death to her .
The Spirits gathered round , and began to lift her mantle off ; but underneath they saw the pearl chain , shining with a clear , soft light , that only glowed more brightly when they laid their hands upon it .
`` O give us this ! ''
cried they ; `` it is far lovelier than all the rest , and does not melt away like them ; and see how brilliantly it glitters in our hands .
If we may but have this , all will be well , and you are once more free . ''
And Ripple , safe again beneath her snow flake , gladly gave the chain to them ; and told them how the pearls they now placed proudly on their breasts were formed of tears , which but for them might still be flowing .
Then the Spirits smiled most kindly on her , and would have put their arms about her , and have kissed her cheek , but she drew back , telling them that every touch of theirs was like a wound to her .
`` Then , if we may not tell our pleasure so , we will show it in a different way , and give you a pleasant journey home .
Come out with us , '' the Spirits said , `` and see the bright path we have made for you . ''
So they led her to the lofty gate , and here , from sky to earth , a lovely rainbow arched its radiant colors in the sun .
`` This is indeed a pleasant road , '' said Ripple .
`` Thank you , friendly Spirits , for your care ; and now farewell .
I would gladly stay yet longer , but we can not dwell together , and I am longing sadly for my own cool home .
Now Sunbeam , Breeze , Leaf , and Flake , fly back to the Seasons whence you came , and tell them that , thanks to their kind gifts , Ripple 's work at last is done . ''
Then down along the shining pathway spread before her , the happy little Spirit glided to the sea .
`` Thanks , dear Summer-Wind , '' said the Queen ; `` we will remember the lessons you have each taught us , and when next we meet in Fern Dale , you shall tell us more .
And now , dear Trip , call them from the lake , for the moon is sinking fast , and we must hasten home . ''
The Elves gathered about their Queen , and while the rustling leaves were still , and the flowers ' sweet voices mingled with their own , they sang this FAIRY SONG .
The moonlight fades from flower and tree , And the stars dim one by one ; The tale is told , the song is sung , And the Fairy feast is done .
The night-wind rocks the sleeping flowers , And sings to them , soft and low .
The early birds erelong will wake : ' T is time for the Elves to go .
O'er the sleeping earth we silently pass , Unseen by mortal eye , And send sweet dreams , as we lightly float Through the quiet moonlit sky ; -- For the stars ' soft eyes alone may see , And the flowers alone may know , The feasts we hold , the tales we tell : So ' t is time for the Elves to go .
From bird , and blossom , and bee , We learn the lessons they teach ; And seek , by kindly deeds , to win A loving friend in each .
And though unseen on earth we dwell , Sweet voices whisper low , And gentle hearts most joyously greet The Elves where'er they go .
When next we meet in the Fairy dell , May the silver moon 's soft light Shine then on faces gay as now , And Elfin hearts as light .
Now spread each wing , for the eastern sky With sunlight soon will glow .
The morning star shall light us home : Farewell !
for the Elves must go .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Jack_and_Jill.txt.out
Chapter I .
The Catastrophe `` Clear the lulla ! ''
was the general cry on a bright December afternoon , when all the boys and girls of Harmony Village were out enjoying the first good snow of the season .
Up and down three long coasts they went as fast as legs and sleds could carry them .
One smooth path led into the meadow , and here the little folk congregated ; one swept across the pond , where skaters were darting about like water-bugs ; and the third , from the very top of the steep hill , ended abruptly at a rail fence on the high bank above the road .
There was a group of lads and lasses sitting or leaning on this fence to rest after an exciting race , and , as they reposed , they amused themselves with criticising their mates , still absorbed in this most delightful of out-door sports .
`` Here comes Frank Minot , looking as solemn as a judge , '' cried one , as a tall fellow of sixteen spun by , with a set look about the mouth and a keen sparkle of the eyes , fixed on the distant goal with a do-or-die expression .
`` Here 's Molly Loo And little Boo ! ''
sang out another ; and down came a girl with flying hair , carrying a small boy behind her , so fat that his short legs stuck out from the sides , and his round face looked over her shoulder like a full moon .
`` There 's Gus Burton ; does n't he go it ? ''
and such a very long boy whizzed by , that it looked almost as if his heels were at the top of the hill when his head was at the bottom !
`` Hurrah for Ed Devlin ! ''
and a general shout greeted a sweet-faced lad , with a laugh on his lips , a fine color on his brown cheek , and a gay word for every girl he passed .
`` Laura and Lotty keep to the safe coast into the meadow , and Molly Loo is the only girl that dares to try this long one to the pond .
I would n't for the world ; the ice ca n't be strong yet , though it is cold enough to freeze one 's nose off , '' said a timid damsel , who sat hugging a post and screaming whenever a mischievous lad shook the fence .
`` No , she is n't ; here 's Jack and Jill going like fury . ''
`` Clear the track For jolly Jack ! ''
sang the boys , who had rhymes and nicknames for nearly every one .
Down came a gay red sled , bearing a boy who seemed all smile and sunshine , so white were his teeth , so golden was his hair , so bright and happy his whole air .
Behind him clung a little gypsy of a girl , with black eyes and hair , cheeks as red as her hood , and a face full of fun and sparkle , as she waved Jack 's blue tippet like a banner with one hand , and held on with the other .
`` Jill goes wherever Jack does , and he lets her .
He 's such a good-natured chap , he ca n't say ` No . ' ''
`` To a girl , '' slyly added one of the boys , who had wished to borrow the red sled , and had been politely refused because Jill wanted it .
`` He 's the nicest boy in the world , for he never gets mad , '' said the timid young lady , recalling the many times Jack had shielded her from the terrors which beset her path to school , in the shape of cows , dogs , and boys who made faces and called her '' ` Fraid-cat . ''
`` He does n't dare to get mad with Jill , for she 'd take his head off in two minutes if he did , '' growled Joe Flint , still smarting from the rebuke Jill had given him for robbing the little ones of their safe coast because he fancied it .
`` She would n't !
she 's a dear !
You need n't sniff at her because she is poor .
She 's ever so much brighter than you are , or she would n't always be at the head of your class , old Joe , '' cried the girls , standing by their friend with a unanimity which proved what a favorite she was .
Joe subsided with as scornful a curl to his nose as its chilly state permitted , and Merry Grant introduced a subject of general interest by asking abruptly , -- `` Who is going to the candy-scrape to-night ? ''
`` All of us .
Frank invited the whole set , and we shall have a tip-top time .
We always do at the Minots ' , '' cried Sue , the timid trembler .
`` Jack said there was a barrel of molasses in the house , so there would be enough for all to eat and some to carry away .
They know how to do things handsomely ; '' and the speaker licked his lips , as if already tasting the feast in store for him .
`` Mrs. Minot is a mother worth having , '' said Molly Loo , coming up with Boo on the sled ; and she knew what it was to need a mother , for she had none , and tried to care for the little brother with maternal love and patience .
`` She is just as sweet as she can be ! ''
declared Merry , enthusiastically .
`` Especially when she has a candy-scrape , '' said Joe , trying to be amiable , lest he should be left out of the party .
Whereat they all laughed , and went gayly away for a farewell frolic , as the sun was setting and the keen wind nipped fingers and toes as well as noses .
Down they went , one after another , on the various coasts , -- solemn Frank , long Gus , gallant Ed , fly-away Molly Loo , pretty Laura and Lotty , grumpy Joe , sweet-faced Merry with Sue shrieking wildly behind her , gay Jack and gypsy Jill , always together , -- one and all bubbling over with the innocent jollity born of healthful exercise .
People passing in the road below looked up and smiled involuntarily at the red-cheeked lads and lasses , filling the frosty air with peals of laughter and cries of triumph as they flew by in every conceivable attitude ; for the fun was at its height now , and the oldest and gravest observers felt a glow of pleasure as they looked , remembering their own young days .
`` Jack , take me down that coast .
Joe said I would n't dare to do it , so I must , '' commanded Jill , as they paused for breath after the long trudge up hill .
Jill , of course , was not her real name , but had been given because of her friendship with Jack , who so admired Janey Pecq 's spirit and fun .
`` I guess I would n't .
It is very bumpy and ends in a big drift ; not half so nice as this one .
Hop on and we 'll have a good spin across the pond ; '' and Jack brought `` Thunderbolt '' round with a skilful swing and an engaging air that would have won obedience from anybody but wilful Jill .
`` It is very nice , but I wo n't be told I do n't ` dare ' by any boy in the world .
If you are afraid , I 'll go alone . ''
And , before he could speak , she had snatched the rope from his hand , thrown herself upon the sled , and was off , helter-skelter , down the most dangerous coast on the hill-side .
She did not get far , however ; for , starting in a hurry , she did not guide her steed with care , and the red charger landed her in the snow half-way down , where she lay laughing till Jack came to pick her up .
`` If you will go , I 'll take you down all right .
I 'm not afraid , for I 've done it a dozen times with the other fellows ; but we gave it up because it is short and bad , '' he said , still good-natured , though a little hurt at the charge of cowardice ; for Jack was as brave as a little lion , and with the best sort of bravery , -- the courage to do right .
`` So it is ; but I must do it a few times , or Joe will plague me and spoil my fun to-night , '' answered Jill , shaking her skirts and rubbing her blue hands , wet and cold with the snow .
`` Here , put these on ; I never use them .
Keep them if they fit ; I only carry them to please mother . ''
And Jack pulled out a pair of red mittens with the air of a boy used to giving away .
`` They are lovely warm , and they do fit .
Must be too small for your paws , so I 'll knit you a new pair for Christmas , and make you wear them , too , '' said Jill , putting on the mittens with a nod of thanks , and ending her speech with a stamp of her rubber boots to enforce her threat .
Jack laughed , and up they trudged to the spot whence the three coasts diverged .
`` Now , which will you have ? ''
he asked , with a warning look in the honest blue eyes which often unconsciously controlled naughty Jill against her will .
`` That one ! ''
and the red mitten pointed firmly to the perilous path just tried .
`` You will do it ? ''
`` I will ! ''
`` Come on , then , and hold tight . ''
Jack 's smile was gone now , and he waited without a word while Jill tucked herself up , then took his place in front , and off they went on the brief , breathless trip straight into the drift by the fence below .
`` I do n't see anything very awful in that .
Come up and have another .
Joe is watching us , and I 'd like to show him that we are n't afraid of anything , '' said Jill , with a defiant glance at a distant boy , who had paused to watch the descent .
`` It is a regular ` go-bang , ' if that is what you like , '' answered Jack , as they plowed their way up again .
`` It is .
You boys think girls like little mean coasts without any fun or danger in them , as if we could n't be brave and strong as well as you .
Give me three go-bangs and then we 'll stop .
My tumble does n't count , so give me two more and then I 'll be good . ''
Jill took her seat as she spoke , and looked up with such a rosy , pleading face that Jack gave in at once , and down they went again , raising a cloud of glittering snow-dust as they reined up in fine style with their feet on the fence .
`` It 's just splendid !
Now , one more ! ''
cried Jill , excited by the cheers of a sleighing party passing below .
Proud of his skill , Jack marched back , resolved to make the third `` go '' the crowning achievement of the afternoon , while Jill pranced after him as lightly as if the big boots were the famous seven-leagued ones , and chattering about the candy-scrape and whether there would be nuts or not .
So full were they of this important question , that they piled on hap-hazard , and started off still talking so busily that Jill forgot to hold tight and Jack to steer carefully .
Alas , for the candy-scrape that never was to be !
Alas , for poor `` Thunderbolt '' blindly setting forth on the last trip he ever made !
And oh , alas , for Jack and Jill , who wilfully chose the wrong road and ended their fun for the winter !
No one knew how it happened , but instead of landing in the drift , or at the fence , there was a great crash against the bars , a dreadful plunge off the steep bank , a sudden scattering of girl , boy , sled , fence , earth , and snow , all about the road , two cries , and then silence .
`` I knew they 'd do it ! ''
and , standing on the post where he had perched , Joe waved his arms and shouted : `` Smash-up !
Smash-up !
Run !
Run ! ''
like a raven croaking over a battlefield when the fight was done .
Down rushed boys and girls ready to laugh or cry , as the case might be , for accidents will happen on the best-regulated coasting-grounds .
They found Jack sitting up looking about him with a queer , dazed expression , while an ugly cut on the forehead was bleeding in a way which sobered the boys and frightened the girls half out of their wits .
`` He 's killed !
He 's killed ! ''
wailed Sue , hiding her face and beginning to cry .
`` No , I 'm not .
I 'll be all right when I get my breath .
Where 's Jill ? ''
asked Jack , stoutly , though still too giddy to see straight .
The group about him opened , and his comrade in misfortune was discovered lying quietly in the snow with all the pretty color shocked out of her face by the fall , and winking rapidly , as if half stunned .
But no wounds appeared , and when asked if she was dead , she answered in a vague sort of way , -- `` I guess not .
Is Jack hurt ? ''
`` Broken his head , '' croaked Joe , stepping aside , that she might behold the fallen hero vainly trying to look calm and cheerful with red drops running down his cheek and a lump on his forehead .
Jill shut her eyes and waved the girls away , saying , faintly , -- `` Never mind me .
Go and see to him . ''
`` Do n't !
I 'm all right , '' and Jack tried to get up in order to prove that headers off a bank were mere trifles to him ; but at the first movement of the left leg he uttered a sharp cry of pain , and would have fallen if Gus had not caught and gently laid him down .
`` What is it , old chap ? ''
asked Frank , kneeling beside him , really alarmed now , the hurts seeming worse than mere bumps , which were common affairs among baseball players , and not worth much notice .
`` I lit on my head , but I guess I 've broken my leg .
Do n't frighten mother , '' and Jack held fast to Frank 's arm as he looked into the anxious face bent over him ; for , though the elder tyrannized over the younger , the brothers loved one another dearly .
`` Lift his head , Frank , while I tie my handkerchief round to stop the bleeding , '' said a quiet voice , as Ed Devlin laid a handful of soft snow on the wound ; and Jack 's face brightened as he turned to thank the one big boy who never was rough with the small ones .
`` Better get him right home , '' advised Gus , who stood by looking on , with his little sisters Laura and Lotty clinging to him .
`` Take Jill , too , for it 's my opinion she has broken her back .
She ca n't stir one bit , '' announced Molly Loo , with a droll air of triumph , as if rather pleased than otherwise to have her patient hurt the worse ; for Jack 's wound was very effective , and Molly had a taste for the tragic .
This cheerful statement was greeted with a wail from Susan and howls from Boo , who had earned that name from the ease with which , on all occasions , he could burst into a dismal roar without shedding a tear , and stop as suddenly as he began .
`` Oh , I am so sorry !
It was my fault ; I should n't have let her do it , '' said Jack , distressfully .
`` It was all my fault ; I made him .
If I 'd broken every bone I 've got , it would serve me right .
Do n't help me , anybody ; I 'm a wicked thing , and I deserve to lie here and freeze and starve and die ! ''
cried Jill , piling up punishments in her remorseful anguish of mind and body .
`` But we want to help you , and we can settle about blame by and by , '' whispered Merry with a kiss ; for she adored dashing Jill , and never would own that she did wrong .
`` Here come the wood-sleds just in time .
I 'll cut away and tell one of them to hurry up . ''
And , freeing himself from his sisters , Gus went off at a great pace , proving that the long legs carried a sensible head as well as a kind heart .
As the first sled approached , an air of relief pervaded the agitated party , for it was driven by Mr. Grant , a big , benevolent-looking farmer , who surveyed the scene with the sympathetic interest of a man and a father .
`` Had a little accident , have you ?
Well , that 's a pretty likely place for a spill .
Tried it once myself and broke the bridge of my nose , '' he said , tapping that massive feature with a laugh which showed that fifty years of farming had not taken all the boy out of him .
`` Now then , let 's see about this little chore , and lively , too , for it 's late , and these parties ought to be housed , '' he added , throwing down his whip , pushing back his cap , and nodding at the wounded with a reassuring smile .
`` Jill first , please , sir , '' said Ed , the gentle squire of dames , spreading his overcoat on the sled as eagerly as ever Raleigh laid down his velvet cloak for a queen to walk upon .
`` All right .
Just lay easy , my dear , and I wo n't hurt you a mite if I can help it . ''
Careful as Mr. Grant was , Jill could have screamed with pain as he lifted her ; but she set her lips and bore it with the courage of a little Indian ; for all the lads were looking on , and Jill was proud to show that a girl could bear as much as a boy .
She hid her face in the coat as soon as she was settled , to hide the tears that would come , and by the time Jack was placed beside her , she had quite a little cistern of salt water stored up in Ed 's coat-pocket .
Then the mournful procession set forth , Mr. Grant driving the oxen , the girls clustering about the interesting invalids on the sled , while the boys came behind like a guard of honor , leaving the hill deserted by all but Joe , who had returned to hover about the fatal fence , and poor `` Thunderbolt , '' split asunder , lying on the bank to mark the spot where the great catastrophe occurred .
Chapter II .
Two Penitents Jack and Jill never cared to say much about the night which followed the first coasting party of the season , for it was the saddest and the hardest their short lives had ever known .
Jack suffered most in body ; for the setting of the broken leg was such a painful job , that it wrung several sharp cries from him , and made Frank , who helped , quite weak and white with sympathy , when it was over .
The wounded head ached dreadfully , and the poor boy felt as if bruised all over , for he had the worst of the fall .
Dr. Whiting spoke cheerfully of the case , and made so light of broken legs , that Jack innocently asked if he should not be up in a week or so .
`` Well , no ; it usually takes twenty-one days for bones to knit , and young ones make quick work of it , '' answered the doctor , with a last scientific tuck to the various bandages , which made Jack feel like a hapless chicken trussed for the spit .
`` Twenty-one days !
Three whole weeks in bed !
I should n't call that quick work , '' groaned the dismayed patient , whose experience of illness had been limited .
`` It is a forty days ' job , young man , and you must make up your mind to bear it like a hero .
We will do our best ; but next time , look before you leap , and save your bones .
Good-night ; you 'll feel better in the morning .
No jigs , remember ; '' and off went the busy doctor for another look at Jill , who had been ordered to bed and left to rest till the other case was attended to .
Any one would have thought Jack 's plight much the worse , but the doctor looked more sober over Jill 's hurt back than the boy 's compound fractures ; and the poor little girl had a very bad quarter of an hour while he was trying to discover the extent of the injury .
`` Keep her quiet , and time will show how much damage is done , '' was all he said in her hearing ; but if she had known that he told Mrs. Pecq he feared serious consequences , she would not have wondered why her mother cried as she rubbed the numb limbs and placed the pillows so tenderly .
Jill suffered most in her mind ; for only a sharp stab of pain now and then reminded her of her body ; but her remorseful little soul gave her no peace for thinking of Jack , whose bruises and breakages her lively fancy painted in the darkest colors .
`` Oh , do n't be good to me , Mammy ; I made him go , and now he 's hurt dreadfully , and may die ; and it is all my fault , and everybody ought to hate me , '' sobbed poor Jill , as a neighbor left the room after reporting in a minute manner how Jack screamed when his leg was set , and how Frank was found white as a sheet , with his head under the pump , while Gus restored the tone of his friend 's nerves , by pumping as if the house was on fire .
`` Whist , my lass , and go to sleep .
Take a sup of the good wine Mrs. Minot sent , for you are as cold as a clod , and it breaks my heart to see my Janey so . ''
`` I ca n't go to sleep ; I do n't see how Jack 's mother could send me anything when I 've half killed him .
I want to be cold and ache and have horrid things done to me .
Oh , if I ever get out of this bed I 'll be the best girl in the world , to pay for this .
See if I ai n't ! ''
and Jill gave such a decided nod that her tears flew all about the pillow like a shower .
`` You 'd better begin at once , for you wo n't get out of that bed for a long while , I 'm afraid , my lamb , '' sighed her mother , unable to conceal the anxiety that lay so heavy on her heart .
`` Am I hurt badly , Mammy ? ''
`` I fear it , lass . ''
`` I 'm glad of it ; I ought to be worse than Jack , and I hope I am .
I 'll bear it well , and be good right away .
Sing , Mammy , and I 'll try to go to sleep to please you . ''
Jill shut her eyes with sudden and unusual meekness , and before her mother had crooned half a dozen verses of an old ballad , the little black head lay still upon the pillow , and repentant Jill was fast asleep with a red mitten in her hand .
Mrs. Pecq was an Englishwoman who had left Montreal at the death of her husband , a French Canadian , and had come to live in the tiny cottage which stood near Mrs. Minot 's big house , separated only by an arbor-vitae hedge .
A sad , silent person , who had seen better days , but said nothing about them , and earned her bread by sewing , nursing , work in the factory , or anything that came in her way , being anxious to educate her little girl .
Now , as she sat beside the bed in the small , poor room , that hope almost died within her , for here was the child laid up for months , probably , and the one ambition and pleasure of the solitary woman 's life was to see Janey Pecq 's name over all the high marks in the school-reports she proudly brought home .
`` She 'll win through , please Heaven , and I 'll see my lass a gentlewoman yet , thanks to the good friend in yonder , who will never let her want for care , '' thought the poor soul , looking out into the gloom where a long ray of light streamed from the great house warm and comfortable upon the cottage , like the spirit of kindness which made the inmates friends and neighbors .
Meantime , that other mother sat by her boy 's bed as anxious but with better hope , for Mrs. Minot made trouble sweet and helpful by the way in which she bore it ; and her boys were learning of her how to find silver linings to the clouds that must come into the bluest skies .
Jack lay wide awake , with hot cheeks , and throbbing head , and all sorts of queer sensations in the broken leg .
The soothing potion he had taken did not affect him yet , and he tried to beguile the weary time by wondering who came and went below .
Gentle rings at the front door , and mysterious tappings at the back , had been going on all the evening ; for the report of the accident had grown astonishingly in its travels , and at eight o'clock the general belief was that Jack had broken both legs , fractured his skull , and lay at the point of death , while Jill had dislocated one shoulder , and was bruised black and blue from top to toe .
Such being the case , it is no wonder that anxious playmates and neighbors haunted the doorsteps of the two houses , and that offers of help poured in .
Frank , having tied up the bell and put a notice in the lighted side-window , saying , `` Go to the back door , '' sat in the parlor , supported by his chum , Gus , while Ed played softly on the piano , hoping to lull Jack to sleep .
It did soothe him , for a very sweet friendship existed between the tall youth and the lad of thirteen .
Ed went with the big fellows , but always had a kind word for the smaller boys ; and affectionate Jack , never ashamed to show his love , was often seen with his arm round Ed 's shoulder , as they sat together in the pleasant red parlors , where all the young people were welcome and Frank was king .
`` Is the pain any easier , my darling ? ''
asked Mrs. Minot , leaning over the pillow , where the golden head lay quiet for a moment .
`` Not much .
I forget it listening to the music .
Dear old Ed is playing all my favorite tunes , and it is very nice .
I guess he feels pretty sorry about me . ''
`` They all do .
Frank could not talk of it .
Gus would n't go home to tea , he was so anxious to do something for us .
Joe brought back the bits of your poor sled , because he did n't like to leave them lying round for any one to carry off , he said , and you might like them to remember your fall by . ''
Jack tried to laugh , but it was rather a failure , though he managed to say , cheerfully , -- `` That was good of old Joe .
I would n't lend him ` Thunderbolt ' for fear he 'd hurt it .
Could n't have smashed it up better than I did , could he ?
Do n't think I want any pieces to remind me of that fall .
I just wish you 'd seen us , mother !
It must have been a splendid spill to look at , any way . ''
`` No , thank you ; I 'd rather not even try to imagine my precious boy going heels over head down that dreadful hill .
No more pranks of that sort for some time , Jacky ; '' and Mrs. Minot looked rather pleased on the whole to have her venturesome bird safe under her maternal wing .
`` No coasting till some time in January .
What a fool I was to do it !
Go-bangs always are dangerous , and that 's the fun of the thing .
Oh dear ! ''
Jack threw his arms about and frowned darkly , but never said a word of the wilful little baggage who had led him into mischief ; he was too much of a gentleman to tell on a girl , though it cost him an effort to hold his tongue , because Mamma 's good opinion was very precious to him , and he longed to explain .
She knew all about it , however , for Jill had been carried into the house reviling herself for the mishap , and even in the midst of her own anxiety for her boy , Mrs. Minot understood the state of the case without more words .
So she now set his mind at rest by saying , quietly .
`` Foolish fun , as you see , dear .
Another time , stand firm and help Jill to control her headstrong will .
When you learn to yield less and she more , there will be no scrapes like this to try us all . ''
`` I 'll remember , mother .
I hate not to be obliging , but I guess it would have saved us lots of trouble if I 'd said No in the beginning .
I tried to , but she would go .
Poor Jill !
I 'll take better care of her next time .
Is she very ill , Mamma ? ''
`` I can tell you better to-morrow .
She does not suffer much , and we hope there is no great harm done . ''
`` I wish she had a nice place like this to be sick in .
It must be very poky in those little rooms , '' said Jack , as his eye roved round the large chamber where he lay so cosey , warm , and pleasant , with the gay chintz curtains draping doors and windows , the rosy carpet , comfortable chairs , and a fire glowing in the grate .
`` I shall see that she suffers for nothing , so do n't trouble your kind heart about her to-night , but try to sleep ; that 's what you need , '' answered his mother , wetting the bandage on his forehead , and putting a cool hand on the flushed cheeks .
Jack obediently closed his eyes and listened while the boys sang `` The Sweet By and By , '' softening their rough young voices for his sake till the music was as soft as a lullaby .
He lay so still his mother thought he was off , but presently a tear slipped out and rolled down the red cheek , wetting her hand as it passed .
`` My blessed boy , what is it ? ''
she whispered , with a touch and a tone that only mothers have .
The blue eyes opened wide , and Jack 's own sunshiny smile broke through the tears that filled them as he said with a sniff , -- `` Everybody is so good to me I ca n't help making a noodle of myself .
`` You are not a noodle ! ''
cried Mamma , resenting the epithet .
`` One of the sweet things about pain and sorrow is that they show us how well we are loved , how much kindness there is in the world , and how easily we can make others happy in the same way when they need help and sympathy .
Do n't forget that , little son . ''
`` Do n't see how I can , with you to show me how nice it is .
Kiss me good-night , and then ` I 'll be good , ' as Jill says . ''
Nestling his head upon his mother 's arm , Jack lay quiet till , lulled by the music of his mates , he drowsed away into the dreamless sleep which is Nurse Nature 's healthiest soothing sirup for weary souls and bodies .
Chapter III .
Ward No. 1 For some days , nothing was seen and little was heard of the `` dear sufferers , '' as the old ladies called them .
But they were not forgotten ; the first words uttered when any of the young people met were : `` How is Jack ? ''
`` Seen Jill yet ? ''
and all waited with impatience for the moment when they could be admitted to their favorite mates , more than ever objects of interest now .
Meantime , the captives spent the first few days in sleep , pain , and trying to accept the hard fact that school and play were done with for months perhaps .
But young spirits are wonderfully elastic and soon cheer up , and healthy young bodies heal fast , or easily adapt themselves to new conditions .
So our invalids began to mend on the fourth day , and to drive their nurses distracted with efforts to amuse them , before the first week was over .
The most successful attempt originated in Ward No. 1 , as Mrs. Minot called Jack 's apartment , and we will give our sympathizing readers some idea of this place , which became the stage whereon were enacted many varied and remarkable scenes .
Each of the Minot boys had his own room , and there collected his own treasures and trophies , arranged to suit his convenience and taste .
Frank 's was full of books , maps , machinery , chemical messes , and geometrical drawings , which adorned the walls like intricate cobwebs .
A big chair , where he read and studied with his heels higher than his head , a basket of apples for refreshment at all hours of the day or night , and an immense inkstand , in which several pens were always apparently bathing their feet , were the principal ornaments of his scholastic retreat .
Jack 's hobby was athletic sports , for he was bent on having a strong and active body for his happy little soul to live and enjoy itself in .
So a severe simplicity reigned in his apartment ; in summer , especially , for then his floor was bare , his windows were uncurtained , and the chairs uncushioned , the bed being as narrow and hard as Napoleon 's .
The only ornaments were dumbbells , whips , bats , rods , skates , boxing-gloves , a big bath-pan and a small library , consisting chiefly of books on games , horses , health , hunting , and travels .
In winter his mother made things more comfortable by introducing rugs , curtains , and a fire .
Jack , also , relented slightly in the severity of his training , occasionally indulging in the national buckwheat cake , instead of the prescribed oatmeal porridge , for breakfast , omitting his cold bath when the thermometer was below zero , and dancing at night , instead of running a given distance by day .
Now , however , he was a helpless captive , given over to all sorts of coddling , laziness , and luxury , and there was a droll mixture of mirth and melancholy in his face , as he lay trussed up in bed , watching the comforts which had suddenly robbed his room of its Spartan simplicity .
A delicious couch was there , with Frank reposing in its depths , half hidden under several folios which he was consulting for a history of the steam-engine , the subject of his next composition .
A white-covered table stood near , with all manner of dainties set forth in a way to tempt the sternest principles .
Vases of flowers bloomed on the chimney-piece , -- gifts from anxious young ladies , left with their love .
Frivolous story-books and picture-papers strewed the bed , now shrouded in effeminate chintz curtains , beneath which Jack lay like a wounded warrior in his tent .
But the saddest sight for our crippled athlete was a glimpse , through a half-opened door , at the beloved dumb-bells , bats , balls , boxing-gloves , and snow-shoes , all piled ignominiously away in the bath-pan , mournfully recalling the fact that their day was over , now , at least for some time .
He was about to groan dismally , when his eye fell on a sight which made him swallow the groan , and cough instead , as if it choked him a little .
The sight was his mother 's face , as she sat in a low chair rolling bandages , with a basket beside her in which were piles of old linen , lint , plaster , and other matters , needed for the dressing of wounds .
As he looked , Jack remembered how steadily and tenderly she had stood by him all through the hard times just past , and how carefully she had bathed and dressed his wound each day in spite of the effort it cost her to give him pain or even see him suffer .
`` That 's a better sort of strength than swinging twenty-pound dumb-bells or running races ; I guess I 'll try for that kind , too , and not howl or let her see me squirm when the doctor hurts , '' thought the boy , as he saw that gentle face so pale and tired with much watching and anxiety , yet so patient , serene , and cheerful , that it was like sunshine .
`` Lie down and take a good nap , mother dear , I feel first-rate , and Frank can see to me if I want anything .
Do , now , '' he added , with a persuasive nod toward the couch , and a boyish relish in stirring up his lazy brother .
After some urging , Mamma consented to go to her room for forty winks , leaving Jack in the care of Frank , begging him to be as quiet as possible if the dear boy wished to sleep , and to amuse him if he did not .
Being worn out , Mrs. Minot lengthened her forty winks into a three hours ' nap , and as the `` dear boy '' scorned repose , Mr. Frank had his hands full while on guard .
`` I 'll read to you .
Here 's Watt , Arkwright , Fulton , and a lot of capital fellows , with pictures that will do your heart good .
Have a bit , will you ? ''
asked the new nurse , flapping the leaves invitingly .
-- for Frank had a passion for such things , and drew steam-engines all over his slate , as Tommy Traddles drew hosts of skeletons when low in his spirits .
`` I do n't want any of your old boilers and stokers and whirligigs .
I 'm tired of reading , and want something regularly jolly , '' answered Jack , who had been chasing white buffaloes with `` The Hunters of the West , '' till he was a trifle tired and fractious .
`` Play cribbage , euchre , anything you like ; '' and Frank obligingly disinterred himself from under the folios , feeling that it was hard for a fellow to lie flat a whole week .
`` No fun ; just two of us .
Wish school was over , so the boys would come in ; doctor said I might see them now . ''
`` They 'll be along by and by , and I 'll hail them .
Till then , what shall we do ?
I 'm your man for anything , only put a name to it . ''
`` Just wish I had a telegraph or a telephone , so I could talk to Jill .
Would n't it be fun to pipe across and get an answer ! ''
`` I 'll make either you say ; '' and Frank looked as if trifles of that sort were to be had for the asking .
`` Could you , really ? ''
`` We 'll start the telegraph first , then you can send things over if you like , '' said Frank , prudently proposing the surest experiment .
`` Go ahead , then .
I 'd like that , and so would Jill , for I know she wants to hear from me . ''
`` There 's one trouble , though ; I shall have to leave you alone for a few minutes while I rig up the ropes ; '' and Frank looked sober , for he was a faithful boy , and did not want to desert his post .
`` Oh , never mind ; I wo n't want anything .
If I do , I can pound for Ann . ''
`` And wake mother .
I 'll fix you a better way than that ; '' and , full of inventive genius , our young Edison spliced the poker to part of a fishing-rod in a jiffy , making a long-handled hook which reached across the room .
`` There 's an arm for you ; now hook away , and let 's see how it works , '' he said , handing over the instrument to Jack , who proceeded to show its unexpected capabilities by hooking the cloth off the table in attempting to get his handkerchief , catching Frank by the hair when fishing for a book , and breaking a pane of glass in trying to draw down the curtain .
`` It 's so everlasting long , I ca n't manage it , '' laughed Jack , as it finally caught in his bed-hangings , and nearly pulled them , ring and all , down upon his head .
`` Let it alone , unless you need something very much , and do n't bother about the glass .
It 's just what we want for the telegraph wire or rope to go through .
Keep still , and I 'll have the thing running in ten minutes ; '' and , delighted with the job , Frank hurried away , leaving Jack to compose a message to send as soon as it was possible .
`` What in the world is that flying across the Minots ' yard , -- a brown hen or a boy 's kite ? ''
exclaimed old Miss Hopkins , peering out of her window at the singular performances going on in her opposite neighbor 's garden .
First , Frank appeared with a hatchet and chopped a clear space in the hedge between his own house and the cottage ; next , a clothes line was passed through this aperture and fastened somewhere on the other side ; lastly , a small covered basket , slung on this rope , was seen hitching along , drawn either way by a set of strings ; then , as if satisfied with his job , Frank retired , whistling `` Hail Columbia . ''
`` It 's those children at their pranks again .
I thought broken bones would n't keep them out of mischief long , '' said the old lady , watching with great interest the mysterious basket travelling up and down the rope from the big house to the cottage .
If she had seen what came and went over the wires of the `` Great International Telegraph , '' she would have laughed till her spectacles flew off her Roman nose .
A letter from Jack , with a large orange , went first , explaining the new enterprise : -- `` Dear Jill , -- It 's too bad you ca n't come over to see me .
I am pretty well , but awful tired of keeping still .
I want to see you ever so much .
Frank has fixed us a telegraph , so we can write and send things .
Wo n't it be jolly !
I ca n't look out to see him do it ; but , when you pull your string , my little bell rings , and I know a message is coming .
I send you an orange .
Do you like gorver jelly ?
People send in lots of goodies , and we will go halves .
Good-by .
`` Jack '' Away went the basket , and in fifteen minutes it came back from the cottage with nothing in it but the orange .
`` Hullo !
Is she mad ? ''
asked Jack , as Frank brought the despatch for him to examine .
But , at the first touch , the hollow peel opened , and out fell a letter , two gum-drops , and an owl made of a peanut , with round eyes drawn at the end where the stem formed a funny beak .
Two bits of straw were the legs , and the face looked so like Dr. Whiting that both boys laughed at the sight .
`` That 's so like Jill ; she 'd make fun if she was half dead .
Let 's see what she says ; '' and Jack read the little note , which showed a sad neglect of the spelling-book : -- `` Dear Jacky , -- I ca n't stir and it 's horrid .
The telly graf is very nice and we will have fun with it .
I never ate any gorver jelly .
The orange was first rate .
Send me a book to read .
All about bears and ships and crockydiles .
The doctor was coming to see you , so I sent him the quickest way .
Molly Loo says it is dreadful lonesome at school without us .
Yours truly , `` Jill '' Jack immediately despatched the book and a sample of guava jelly , which unfortunately upset on the way , to the great detriment of `` The Wild Beasts of Asia and Africa . ''
Jill promptly responded with the loan of a tiny black kitten , who emerged spitting and scratching , to Jack 's great delight ; and he was cudgelling his brains as to how a fat white rabbit could be transported , when a shrill whistle from without saved Jill from that inconvenient offering .
`` It 's the fellows ; do you want to see them ? ''
asked Frank , gazing down with calm superiority upon the three eager faces which looked up at him .
`` Guess I do ! ''
and Jack promptly threw the kitten overboard , scorning to be seen by any manly eye amusing himself with such girlish toys .
Bang !
went the front door ; tramp , tramp , tramp , came six booted feet up the stairs ; and , as Frank threw wide the door , three large beings paused on the threshold to deliver the courteous `` Hullo ! ''
which is the established greeting among boys on all social occasions .
`` Come along , old fellows ; I 'm ever so glad to see you ! ''
cried the invalid , with such energetic demonstrations of the arms that he looked as if about to fly or crow , like an excited young cockerel .
`` How are you , Major ? ''
`` Does the leg ache much , Jack ? ''
`` Mr. Phipps says you 'll have to pay for the new rails . ''
With these characteristic greetings , the gentlemen cast away their hats and sat down , all grinning cheerfully , and all with eyes irresistibly fixed upon the dainties , which proved too much for the politeness of ever-hungry boys .
`` Help yourselves , '' said Jack , with a hospitable wave .
`` All the dear old ladies in town have been sending in nice things , and I ca n't begin to eat them up .
Lend a hand and clear away this lot , or we shall have to throw them out of the window .
Bring on the doughnuts and the tarts and the shaky stuff in the entry closet , Frank , and let 's have a lark . ''
No sooner said than done .
Gus took the tarts , Joe the doughnuts , Ed the jelly , and Frank suggested `` spoons all round '' for the Italian cream .
A few trifles in the way of custard , fruit , and wafer biscuits were not worth mentioning ; but every dish was soon emptied , and Jack said , as he surveyed the scene of devastation with great satisfaction , -- `` Call again to-morrow , gentlemen , and we will have another bout .
Free lunches at 5 P.M. till further notice .
Now tell me all the news . ''
For half an hour , five tongues went like mill clappers , and there is no knowing when they would have stopped if the little bell had not suddenly rung with a violence that made them jump .
`` That 's Jill ; see what she wants , Frank ; '' and while his brother sent off the basket , Jack told about the new invention , and invited his mates to examine and admire .
They did so , and shouted with merriment when the next despatch from Jill arrived .
A pasteboard jumping-jack , with one leg done up in cotton-wool to preserve the likeness , and a great lump of molasses candy in a brown paper , with accompanying note : -- `` Dear Sir , -- I saw the boys go in , and know you are having a nice time , so I send over the candy Molly Loo and Merry brought me .
Mammy says I ca n't eat it , and it will all melt away if I keep it .
Also a picture of Jack Minot , who will dance on one leg and waggle the other , and make you laugh .
I wish I could come , too .
Do n't you hate grewel ?
I do .
-- In haste , `` J.P. '' `` Let 's all send her a letter , '' proposed Jack , and out came pens , ink , paper , and the lamp , and every one fell to scribbling .
A droll collection was the result , for Frank drew a picture of the fatal fall with broken rails flying in every direction , Jack with his head swollen to the size of a balloon , and Jill in two pieces , while the various boys and girls were hit off with a sly skill that gave Gus legs like a stork , Molly Loo hair several yards long , and Boo a series of visible howls coming out of an immense mouth in the shape of o 's .
The oxen were particularly good , for their horns branched like those of the moose , and Mr. Grant had a patriarchal beard which waved in the breeze as he bore the wounded girl to a sled very like a funeral pyre , the stakes being crowned with big mittens like torches .
`` You ought to be an artist .
I never saw such a dabster as you are .
That 's the very moral of Joe , all in a bunch on the fence , with a blot to show how purple his nose was , '' said Gus , holding up the sketch for general criticism and admiration .
`` I 'd rather have a red nose than legs like a grasshopper ; so you need n't twit , Daddy , '' growled Joe , quite unconscious that a blot actually did adorn his nose , as he labored over a brief despatch .
The boys enjoyed the joke , and one after the other read out his message to the captive lady : -- `` Dear Jill , -- Sorry you ai n't here .
Great fun .
Jack pretty lively .
Laura and Lot would send love if they knew of the chance .
Fly round and get well .
`` Gus '' `` Dear Gilliflower , -- Hope you are pretty comfortable in your ` dungeon cell . '
Would you like a serenade when the moon comes ?
Hope you will soon be up again , for we miss you very much .
Shall be very happy to help in any way I can .
Love to your mother .
Your true friend , `` E.D. '' `` Miss Pecq . ''
Dear Madam , -- I am happy to tell you that we are all well , and hope you are the same .
I gave Jem Cox a licking because he went to your desk .
You had better send for your books .
You wo n't have to pay for the sled or the fence .
Jack says he will see to it .
We have been having a spread over here .
First-rate things .
I would n't mind breaking a leg , if I had such good grub and no chores to do .
No more now , from yours , with esteem , `` Joseph P. Flint '' Joe thought that an elegant epistle , having copied portions of it from the `` Letter Writer , '' and proudly read it off to the boys , who assured him that Jill would be much impressed .
`` Now , Jack , hurry up and let us send the lot off , for we must go , '' said Gus , as Frank put the letters in the basket , and the clatter of tea-things was heard below .
`` I 'm not going to show mine .
It 's private and you must n't look , '' answered Jack , patting down an envelope with such care that no one had a chance to peep .
But Joe had seen the little note copied , and while the others were at the window working the telegraph he caught up the original , carelessly thrust by Jack under the pillow , and read it aloud before any one knew what he was about .
`` My Dear , -- I wish I could send you some of my good times .
As I ca n't , I send you much love , and I hope you will try and be patient as I am going to , for it was our fault , and we must not make a fuss now .
Ai n't mothers sweet ?
Mine is coming over to-morrow to see you and tell me how you are .
This round thing is a kiss for good-night .
`` Your Jack '' `` Is n't that spoony ?
You 'd better hide your face , I think .
He 's getting to be a regular mollycoddle , is n't he ? ''
jeered Joe , as the boys laughed , and then grew sober , seeing Jack 's head buried in the bedclothes , after sending a pillow at his tormentor .
It nearly hit Mrs. Minot , coming in with her patient 's tea on a tray , and at sight of her the guests hurriedly took leave , Joe nearly tumbling downstairs to escape from Frank , who would have followed , if his mother had not said quickly , `` Stay , and tell me what is the matter . ''
`` Only teasing Jack a bit .
Do n't be mad , old boy , Joe did n't mean any harm , and it was rather soft , now was n't it ? ''
asked Frank , trying to appease the wounded feelings of his brother .
`` I charged you not to worry him .
Those boys were too much for the poor dear , and I ought not to have left him , '' said Mamma , as she vainly endeavored to find and caress the yellow head burrowed so far out of sight that nothing but one red ear was visible .
`` He liked it , and we got on capitally till Joe roughed him about Jill .
Ah , Joe 's getting it now !
I thought Gus and Ed would do that little job for me , '' added Frank , running to the window as the sound of stifled cries and laughter reached him .
The red ear heard also , and Jack popped up his head to ask , with interest , -- `` What are they doing to him ? ''
`` Rolling him in the snow , and he 's howling like fun . ''
`` Serves him right , '' muttered Jack , with a frown .
Then , as a wail arose suggestive of an unpleasant mixture of snow in the mouth and thumps on the back , he burst out laughing , and said , good-naturedly , `` Go and stop them , Frank ; I wo n't mind , only tell him it was a mean trick .
Hurry !
Gus is so strong he does n't know how his pounding hurts . ''
Off ran Frank , and Jack told his wrongs to his mother .
She sympathized heartily , and saw no harm in the affectionate little note , which would please Jill , and help her to bear her trials patiently .
`` It is n't silly to be fond of her , is it ?
She is so nice and funny , and tries to be good , and likes me , and I wo n't be ashamed of my friends , if folks do laugh , '' protested Jack , with a rap of his teaspoon .
`` No , dear , it is quite kind and proper , and I 'd rather have you play with a merry little girl than with rough boys till you are big enough to hold your own , '' answered Mamma , putting the cup to his lips that the reclining lad might take his broma without spilling .
`` Pooh !
I do n't mean that ; I 'm strong enough now to take care of myself , '' cried Jack , stoutly .
`` I can thrash Joe any day , if I like .
Just look at my arm ; there 's muscle for you ! ''
and up went a sleeve , to the great danger of overturning the tray , as the boy proudly displayed his biceps and expanded his chest , both of which were very fine for a lad of his years .
`` If I 'd been on my legs , he would n't have dared to insult me , and it was cowardly to hit a fellow when he was down . ''
Mrs. Minot wanted to laugh at Jack 's indignation , but the bell rang , and she had to go and pull in the basket , much amused at the new game .
Burning to distinguish herself in the eyes of the big boys , Jill had sent over a tall , red flannel night-cap , which she had been making for some proposed Christmas plays , and added the following verse , for she was considered a gifted rhymester at the game parties : -- `` When it comes night , We put out the light .
Some blow with a puff , Some turn down and snuff ; But neat folks prefer A nice extinguis_her .
So here I send you back One to put on Mr. Jack . ''
`` Now , I call that regularly smart ; not one of us could do it , and I just wish Joe was here to see it .
I want to send once more , something good for tea ; she hates gruel so ; '' and the last despatch which the Great International Telegraph carried that day was a baked apple and a warm muffin , with `` J. M. 's best regards . ''
Chapter IV .
Ward No. 2 .
Things were not so gay in Ward No. 2 , for Mrs. Pecq was very busy , and Jill had nothing to amuse her but flying visits from the girls , and such little plays as she could invent for herself in bed .
Fortunately , she had a lively fancy , and so got on pretty well , till keeping still grew unbearable , and the active child ached in every limb to be up and out .
That , however , was impossible , for the least attempt to sit or stand brought on the pain that took her breath away and made her glad to lie flat again .
The doctor spoke cheerfully , but looked sober , and Mrs. Pecq began to fear that Janey was to be a cripple for life .
She said nothing , but Jill 's quick eyes saw an added trouble in the always anxious face , and it depressed her spirits , though she never guessed half the mischief the fall had done .
The telegraph was a great comfort , and the two invalids kept up a lively correspondence , not to say traffic in light articles , for the Great International was the only aerial express in existence .
But even this amusement flagged after a time ; neither had much to tell , and when the daily health bulletins had been exchanged , messages gave out , and the basket 's travels grew more and more infrequent .
Neither could read all the time , games were soon used up , their mates were at school most of the day , and after a week or two the poor children began to get pale and fractious with the confinement , always so irksome to young people .
`` I do believe the child will fret herself into a fever , mem , and I 'm clean distraught to know what to do for her .
She never used to mind trifles , but now she frets about the oddest things , and I ca n't change them .
This wall-paper is well enough , but she has taken a fancy that the spots on it look like spiders , and it makes her nervous .
I 've no other warm place to put her , and no money for a new paper .
Poor lass !
There are hard times before her , I 'm fearing . ''
Mrs. Pecq said this in a low voice to Mrs. Minot , who came in as often as she could , to see what her neighbor needed ; for both mothers were anxious , and sympathy drew them to one another .
While one woman talked , the other looked about the little room , not wondering in the least that Jill found it hard to be contented there .
It was very neat , but so plain that there was not even a picture on the walls , nor an ornament upon the mantel , except the necessary clock , lamp , and match-box .
The paper was ugly , being a deep buff with a brown figure that did look very like spiders sprawling over it , and might well make one nervous to look at day after day .
Jill was asleep in the folding chair Dr. Whiting had sent , with a mattress to make it soft .
The back could be raised or lowered at will ; but only a few inches had been gained as yet , and the thin hair pillow was all she could bear .
She looked very pretty as she lay , with dark lashes against the feverish cheeks , lips apart , and a cloud of curly black locks all about the face pillowed on one arm .
She seemed like a brilliant little flower in that dull place , -- for the French blood in her veins gave her a color , warmth , and grace which were very charming .
Her natural love of beauty showed itself in many ways : a red ribbon had tied up her hair , a gay but faded shawl was thrown over the bed , and the gifts sent her were arranged with care upon the table by her side among her own few toys and treasures .
There was something pathetic in this childish attempt to beautify the poor place , and Mrs. Minot 's eyes were full as she looked at the tired woman , whose one joy and comfort lay there in such sad plight .
`` My dear soul , cheer up , and we will help one another through the hard times , '' she said , with a soft hand on the rough one , and a look that promised much .
`` Please God , we will , mem !
With such good friends , I never should complain .
I try not to do it , but it breaks my heart to see my little lass spoiled for life , most like ; '' and Mrs. Pecq pressed the kind hand with a despondent sigh .
`` We wo n't say , or even think , that , yet .
Everything is possible to youth and health like Janey 's .
We must keep her happy , and time will do the rest , I 'm sure .
Let us begin at once , and have a surprise for her when she wakes . ''
As she spoke , Mrs. Minot moved quietly about the room , pinning the pages of several illustrated papers against the wall at the foot of the bed , and placing to the best advantage the other comforts she had brought .
`` Keep up your heart , neighbor .
I have an idea in my head which I think will help us all , if I can carry it out , '' she said , cheerily , as she went , leaving Mrs. Pecq to sew on Jack 's new night-gowns , with swift fingers , and the grateful wish that she might work for these good friends forever .
As if the whispering and rustling had disturbed her , Jill soon began to stir , and slowly opened the eyes which had closed so wearily on the dull December afternoon .
The bare wall with its brown spiders no longer confronted her , but the colored print of a little girl dancing to the tune her father was playing on a guitar , while a stately lady , with satin dress , ruff , and powder , stood looking on , well pleased .
The quaint figure , in its belaced frock , quilted petticoat , and red-heeled shoes , seemed to come tripping toward her in such a life-like way , that she almost saw the curls blow back , heard the rustle of the rich brocade , and caught the sparkle of the little maid 's bright eyes .
`` Oh , how pretty !
Who sent them ? ''
asked Jill , eagerly , as her eye glanced along the wall , seeing other new and interesting things beyond : an elephant-hunt , a ship in full sail , a horse-race , and a ball-room .
`` The good fairy who never comes empty-handed .
Look round a bit and you will see more pretties all for you , my dearie ; '' and her mother pointed to a bunch of purple grapes in a green leaf plate , a knot of bright flowers pinned on the white curtain , and a gay little double gown across the foot of the bed .
Jill clapped her hands , and was enjoying her new pleasures , when in came Merry and Molly Loo , with Boo , of course , trotting after her like a fat and amiable puppy .
Then the good times began ; the gown was put on , the fruit tasted , and the pictures were studied like famous works of art .
`` It 's a splendid plan to cover up that hateful wall .
I 'd stick pictures all round and have a gallery .
That reminds me !
Up in the garret at our house is a box full of old fashion-books my aunt left .
I often look at them on rainy days , and they are very funny .
I 'll go this minute and get every one .
We can pin them up , or make paper dolls ; '' and away rushed Molly Loo , with the small brother waddling behind , for , when he lost sight of her , he was desolate indeed .
The girls had fits of laughter over the queer costumes of years gone by , and put up a splendid procession of ladies in full skirts , towering hats , pointed slippers , powdered hair , simpering faces , and impossible waists .
`` I do think this bride is perfectly splendid , the long train and veil are so sweet , '' said Jill , revelling in fine clothes as she turned from one plate to another .
`` I like the elephants best , and I 'd give anything to go on a hunt like that ! ''
cried Molly Loo , who rode cows , drove any horse she could get , had nine cats , and was not afraid of the biggest dog that ever barked .
`` I fancy ` The Dancing Lesson ; ' it is so sort of splendid , with the great windows , gold chairs , and fine folks .
Oh , I would like to live in a castle with a father and mother like that , '' said Merry , who was romantic , and found the old farmhouse on the hill a sad trial to her high-flown ideas of elegance .
`` Now , that ship , setting out for some far-away place , is more to my mind .
I weary for home now and then , and mean to see it again some day ; '' and Mrs. Pecq looked longingly at the English ship , though it was evidently outward bound .
Then , as if reproaching herself for discontent , she added : `` It looks like those I used to see going off to India with a load of missionaries .
I came near going myself once , with a lady bound for Siam ; but I went to Canada with her sister , and here I am . ''
`` I 'd like to be a missionary and go where folks throw their babies to the crocodiles .
I 'd watch and fish them out , and have a school , and bring them up , and convert all the people till they knew better , '' said warm-hearted Molly Loo , who befriended every abused animal and forlorn child she met .
`` We need n't go to Africa to be missionaries ; they have 'em nearer home and need 'em , too .
In all the big cities there are a many , and they have their hands full with the poor , the wicked , and the helpless .
One can find that sort of work anywhere , if one has a mind , '' said Mrs. Pecq .
`` I wish we had some to do here .
I 'd so like to go round with baskets of tea and rice , and give out tracts and talk to people .
Would n't you , girls ? ''
asked Molly , much taken with the new idea .
`` It would be rather nice to have a society all to ourselves , and have meetings and resolutions and things , '' answered Merry , who was fond of little ceremonies , and always went to the sewing circle with her mother .
`` We would n't let the boys come in .
We 'd have it a secret society , as they do their temperance lodge , and we 'd have badges and pass-words and grips .
It would be fun if we can only get some heathen to work at ! ''
cried Jill , ready for fresh enterprises of every sort .
`` I can tell you someone to begin on right away , '' said her mother , nodding at her .
`` As wild a little savage as I 'd wish to see .
Take her in hand , and make a pretty-mannered lady of her .
Begin at home , my lass , and you 'll find missionary work enough for a while . ''
`` Now , Mammy , you mean me !
Well , I will begin ; and I 'll be so good , folks wo n't know me .
Being sick makes naughty children behave in story-books , I 'll see if live ones ca n't ; '' and Jill put on such a sanctified face that the girls laughed and asked for their missions also , thinking they would be the same .
`` You , Merry , might do a deal at home helping mother , and setting the big brothers a good example .
One little girl in a house can do pretty much as she will , especially if she has a mind to make plain things nice and comfortable , and not long for castles before she knows how to do her own tasks well , '' was the first unexpected reply .
Merry colored , but took the reproof sweetly , resolving to do what she could , and surprised to find how many ways seemed open to her after a few minutes ' thought .
`` Where shall I begin ?
I 'm not afraid of a dozen crocodiles after Miss Bat ; '' and Molly Loo looked about her with a fierce air , having had practice in battles with the old lady who kept her father 's house .
`` Well , dear , you have n't far to look for as nice a little heathen as you 'd wish ; '' and Mrs. Pecq glanced at Boo , who sat on the floor staring hard at them , attracted by the dread word `` crocodile . ''
He had a cold and no handkerchief , his little hands were red with chilblains , his clothes shabby , he had untidy darns in the knees of his stockings , and a head of tight curls that evidently had not been combed for some time .
`` Yes , I know he is , and I try to keep him decent , but I forget , and he hates to be fixed , and Miss Bat does n't care , and father laughs when I talk about it . ''
Poor Molly Loo looked much ashamed as she made excuses , trying at the same time to mend matters by seizing Boo and dusting him all over with her handkerchief , giving a pull at his hair as if ringing bells , and then dumping him down again with the despairing exclamation : `` Yes , we 're a pair of heathens , and there 's no one to save us if I do n't . ''
That was true enough ; for Molly 's father was a busy man , careless of everything but his mills , Miss Bat was old and lazy , and felt as if she might take life easy after serving the motherless children for many years as well as she knew how .
Molly was beginning to see how much amiss things were at home , and old enough to feel mortified , though , as yet , she had done nothing to mend the matter except be kind to the little boy .
`` You will , my dear , '' answered Mrs. Pecq , encouragingly , for she knew all about it .
`` Now you 've each got a mission , let us see how well you will get on .
Keep it secret , if you like , and report once a week .
I 'll be a member , and we 'll do great things yet . ''
`` We wo n't begin till after Christmas ; there is so much to do , we never shall have time for any more .
Do n't tell , and we 'll start fair at New Year 's , if not before , '' said Jill , taking the lead as usual .
Then they went on with the gay ladies , who certainly were heathen enough in dress to be in sad need of conversion , -- to common-sense at least .
`` I feel as if I was at a party , '' said Jill , after a pause occupied in surveying her gallery with great satisfaction , for dress was her delight , and here she had every conceivable style and color .
`` Talking of parties , is n't it too bad that we must give up our Christmas fun ?
Ca n't get on without you and Jack , so we are not going to do a thing , but just have our presents , '' said Merry , sadly , as they began to fit different heads and bodies together , to try droll effects .
`` I shall be all well in a fortnight , I know ; but Jack wo n't , for it will take more than a month to mend his poor leg .
May be they will have a dance in the boys ' big room , and he can look on , '' suggested Jill , with a glance at the dancing damsel on the wall , for she dearly loved it , and never guessed how long it would be before her light feet would keep time to music again .
`` You 'd better give Jack a hint about the party .
Send over some smart ladies , and say they have come to his Christmas ball , '' proposed audacious Molly Loo , always ready for fun .
So they put a preposterous green bonnet , top-heavy with plumes , on a little lady in yellow , who sat in a carriage ; the lady beside her , in winter costume of velvet pelisse and ermine boa , was fitted to a bride 's head with its orange flowers and veil , and these works of art were sent over to Jack , labelled `` Miss Laura and Lotty Burton going to the Minots ' Christmas ball , '' -- a piece of naughtiness on Jill 's part , for she knew Jack liked the pretty sisters , whose gentle manners made her own wild ways seem all the more blamable .
No answer came for a long time , and the girls had almost forgotten their joke in a game of Letters , when `` Tingle , tangle ! ''
went the bell , and the basket came in heavily laden .
A roll of colored papers was tied outside , and within was a box that rattled , a green and silver horn , a roll of narrow ribbons , a spool of strong thread , some large needles , and a note from Mrs. Minot : -- `` Dear Jill , -- I think of having a Christmas tree so that our invalids can enjoy it , and all your elegant friends are cordially invited .
Knowing that you would like to help , I send some paper for sugar-plum horns and some beads for necklaces .
They will brighten the tree and please the girls for themselves or their dolls .
Jack sends you a horn for a pattern , and will you make a ladder-necklace to show him how ?
Let me know if you need anything .
`` Yours in haste , `` Anna Minot '' `` She knew what the child would like , bless her kind heart , '' said Mrs. Pecq to herself , and something brighter than the most silvery bead shone on Jack 's shirt-sleeve , as she saw the rapture of Jill over the new work and the promised pleasure .
Joyful cries greeted the opening of the box , for bunches of splendid large bugles appeared in all colors , and a lively discussion went on as to the best contrasts .
Jill could not refuse to let her friends share the pretty work , and soon three necklaces glittered on three necks , as each admired her own choice .
`` I 'd be willing to hurt my back dreadfully , if I could lie and do such lovely things all day , '' said Merry , as she reluctantly put down her needle at last , for home duties waited to be done , and looked more than ever distasteful after this new pleasure .
`` So would I !
Oh , do you think Mrs. Minot will let you fill the horns when they are done ?
I 'd love to help you then .
Be sure you send for me ! ''
cried Molly Loo , arching her neck like a proud pigeon to watch the glitter of her purple and gold necklace on her brown gown .
`` I 'm afraid you could n't be trusted , you love sweeties so , and I 'm sure Boo could n't .
But I 'll see about it , '' replied Jill , with a responsible air .
The mention of the boy recalled him to their minds , and looking round they found him peacefully absorbed in polishing up the floor with Molly 's pocket-handkerchief and oil from the little machine-can .
Being torn from this congenial labor , he was carried off shining with grease and roaring lustily .
But Jill did not mind her loneliness now , and sang like a happy canary while she threaded her sparkling beads , or hung the gay horns to dry , ready for their cargoes of sweets .
So Mrs. Minot 's recipe for sunshine proved successful , and mother-wit made the wintry day a bright and happy one for both the little prisoners .
Chapter V. Secrets There were a great many clubs in Harmony Village , but as we intend to interest ourselves with the affairs of the young folks only , we need not dwell upon the intellectual amusements of the elders .
In summer , the boys devoted themselves to baseball , the girls to boating , and all got rosy , stout , and strong , in these healthful exercises .
In winter , the lads had their debating club , the lasses a dramatic ditto .
At the former , astonishing bursts of oratory were heard ; at the latter , everything was boldly attempted , from Romeo and Juliet to Mother Goose 's immortal melodies .
The two clubs frequently met and mingled their attractions in a really entertaining manner , for the speakers made good actors , and the young actresses were most appreciative listeners to the eloquence of each budding Demosthenes .
Great plans had been afoot for Christmas or New Year , but when the grand catastrophe put an end to the career of one of the best `` spouters , '' and caused the retirement of the favorite `` singing chambermaid , '' the affair was postponed till February , when Washington 's birthday was always celebrated by the patriotic town , where the father of his country once put on his nightcap , or took off his boots , as that ubiquitous hero appears to have done in every part of the United States .
Meantime the boys were studying Revolutionary characters , and the girls rehearsing such dramatic scenes as they thought most appropriate and effective for the 22d .
In both of these attempts they were much helped by the sense and spirit of Ralph Evans , a youth of nineteen , who was a great favorite with the young folks , not only because he was a good , industrious fellow , who supported his grandmother , but also full of talent , fun , and ingenuity .
It was no wonder every one who really knew him liked him , for he could turn his hand to anything , and loved to do it .
If the girls were in despair about a fire-place when acting `` The Cricket on the Hearth , '' he painted one , and put a gas-log in it that made the kettle really boil , to their great delight .
If the boys found the interest of their club flagging , Ralph would convulse them by imitations of the `` Member from Cranberry Centre , '' or fire them with speeches of famous statesmen .
Charity fairs could not get on without him , and in the store where he worked he did many an ingenious job , which made him valued for his mechanical skill , as well as for his energy and integrity .
Mrs. Minot liked to have him with her sons , because they also were to paddle their own canoes by and by , and she believed that , rich or poor , boys make better men for learning to use the talents they possess , not merely as ornaments , but tools with which to carve their own fortunes ; and the best help toward this end is an example of faithful work , high aims , and honest living .
So Ralph came often , and in times of trouble was a real rainy-day friend .
Jack grew very fond of him during his imprisonment , for the good youth ran in every evening to get commissions , amuse the boy with droll accounts of the day 's adventures , or invent lifts , bed-tables , and foot-rests for the impatient invalid .
Frank found him a sure guide through the mechanical mysteries which he loved , and spent many a useful half-hour discussing cylinders , pistons , valves , and balance-wheels .
Jill also came in for her share of care and comfort ; the poor little back lay all the easier for the air-cushion Ralph got her , and the weary headaches found relief from the spray atomizer , which softly distilled its scented dew on the hot forehead till she fell asleep .
Round the beds of Jack and Jill met and mingled the schoolmates of whom our story treats .
Never , probably , did invalids have gayer times than our two , after a week of solitary confinement ; for school gossip crept in , games could not be prevented , and Christmas secrets were concocted in those rooms till they were regular conspirators ' dens , when they were not little Bedlams .
After the horn and bead labors were over , the stringing of pop-corn on red , and cranberries on white , threads , came next , and Jack and Jill often looked like a new kind of spider in the pretty webs hung about them , till reeled off to bide their time in the Christmas closet .
Paper flowers followed , and gay garlands and bouquets blossomed , regardless of the snow and frost without .
Then there was a great scribbling of names , verses , and notes to accompany the steadily increasing store of odd parcels which were collected at the Minots ' , for gifts from every one were to ornament the tree , and contributions poured in as the day drew near .
But the secret which most excited the young people was the deep mystery of certain proceedings at the Minot house .
No one but Frank , Ralph , and Mamma knew what it was , and the two boys nearly drove the others distracted by the tantalizing way in which they hinted at joys to come , talked strangely about birds , went measuring round with foot-rules , and shut themselves up in the Boys ' Den , as a certain large room was called .
This seemed to be the centre of operations , but beyond the fact of the promised tree no ray of light was permitted to pass the jealously guarded doors .
Strange men with paste-pots and ladders went in , furniture was dragged about , and all sorts of boyish lumber was sent up garret and down cellar .
Mrs. Minot was seen pondering over heaps of green stuff , hammering was heard , singular bundles were smuggled upstairs , flowering plants betrayed their presence by whiffs of fragrance when the door was opened , and Mrs. Pecq was caught smiling all by herself in a back bedroom , which usually was shut up in winter .
`` They are going to have a play , after all , and that green stuff was the curtain , '' said Molly Loo , as the girls talked it over one day , when they sat with their backs turned to one another , putting last stitches in certain bits of work which had to be concealed from all eyes , though it was found convenient to ask one another 's taste as to the color , materials , and sizes of these mysterious articles .
`` I think it is going to be a dance .
I heard the boys doing their steps when I went in last evening to find out whether Jack liked blue or yellow best , so I could put the bow on his pen-wiper , '' declared Merry , knitting briskly away at the last of the pair of pretty white bed-socks she was making for Jill right under her inquisitive little nose .
`` They would n't have a party of that kind without Jack and me .
It is only an extra nice tree , you see if it is n't , '' answered Jill from behind the pillows which made a temporary screen to hide the toilet mats she was preparing for all her friends .
`` Every one of you is wrong , and you 'd better rest easy , for you wo n't find out the best part of it , try as you may . ''
And Mrs. Pecq actually chuckled as she , too , worked away at some bits of muslin , with her back turned to the very unsocial-looking group .
`` Well , I do n't care , we 've got a secret all our own , and wo n't ever tell , will we ? ''
cried Jill , falling back on the Home Missionary Society , though it was not yet begun .
`` Never ! ''
answered the girls , and all took great comfort in the idea that one mystery would not be cleared up , even at Christmas .
Jack gave up guessing , in despair , after he had suggested a new dining-room where he could eat with the family , a private school in which his lessons might go on with a tutor , or a theatre for the production of the farces in which he delighted .
`` It is going to be used to keep something in that you are very fond of , '' said Mamma , taking pity on him at last .
`` Ducks ? ''
asked Jack , with a half pleased , half puzzled air , not quite seeing where the water was to come from .
Frank exploded at the idea , and added to the mystification by saying , -- `` There will be one little duck and one great donkey in it . ''
Then , fearing he had told the secret , he ran off , quacking and braying derisively .
`` It is to be used for creatures that I , too , am fond of , and you know neither donkeys nor ducks are favorites of mine , '' said Mamma , with a demure expression , as she sat turning over old clothes for the bundles that always went to poor neighbors , with a little store of goodies , at this time of the year .
`` I know !
I know !
It is to be a new ward for more sick folks , is n't it , now ? ''
cried Jack , with what he thought a great proof of shrewdness .
`` I do n't see how I could attend to many more patients till this one is off my hands , '' answered Mamma , with a queer smile , adding quickly , as if she too was afraid of letting the cat out of the bag : `` That reminds me of a Christmas I once spent among the hospitals and poor-houses of a great city with a good lady who , for thirty years , had made it her mission to see that these poor little souls had one merry day .
We gave away two hundred dolls , several great boxes of candy and toys , besides gay pictures , and new clothes to orphan children , sick babies , and half-grown innocents .
Ah , my boy , that was a day to remember all my life , to make me doubly grateful for my blessings , and very glad to serve the helpless and afflicted , as that dear woman did . ''
The look and tone with which the last words were uttered effectually turned Jack 's thoughts from the great secret , and started another small one , for he fell to planning what he would buy with his pocket-money to surprise the little Pats and Biddies who were to have no Christmas tree .
Chapter VI .
Surprises `` Is it pleasant ? ''
was the question Jill asked before she was fairly awake on Christmas morning .
`` Yes , dear ; as bright as heart could wish .
Now eat a bit , and then I 'll make you nice for the day 's pleasure .
I only hope it wo n't be too much for you , '' answered Mrs. Pecq , bustling about , happy , yet anxious , for Jill was to be carried over to Mrs. Minot 's , and it was her first attempt at going out since the accident .
It seemed as if nine o'clock would never come , and Jill , with wraps all ready , lay waiting in a fever of impatience for the doctor 's visit , as he wished to superintend the moving .
At last he came , found all promising , and having bundled up his small patient , carried her , with Frank 's help , in her chair-bed to the ox-sled , which was drawn to the next door , and Miss Jill landed in the Boys ' Den before she had time to get either cold or tired .
Mrs. Minot took her things off with a cordial welcome , but Jill never said a word , for , after one exclamation , she lay staring about her , dumb with surprise and delight at what she saw .
The great room was entirely changed ; for now it looked like a garden , or one of the fairy scenes children love , where in-doors and out-of-doors are pleasantly combined .
The ceiling was pale blue , like the sky ; the walls were covered with a paper like a rustic trellis , up which climbed morning-glories so naturally that the many-colored bells seemed dancing in the wind .
Birds and butterflies flew among them , and here and there , through arches in the trellis , one seemed to look into a sunny summer world , contrasting curiously with the wintry landscape lying beyond the real windows , festooned with evergreen garlands , and curtained only by stands of living flowers .
A green drugget covered the floor like grass , rustic chairs from the garden stood about , and in the middle of the room a handsome hemlock waited for its pretty burden .
A Yule-log blazed on the wide hearth , and over the chimney-piece , framed in holly , shone the words that set all hearts to dancing , `` Merry Christmas ! ''
`` Do you like it , dear ?
This is our surprise for you and Jack , and here we mean to have good times together , '' said Mrs. Minot , who had stood quietly enjoying the effect of her work .
`` Oh , it is so lovely I do n't know what to say ! ''
and Jill put up both arms , as words failed her , and grateful kisses were all she had to offer .
`` Can you suggest anything more to add to the pleasantness ? ''
asked the gentle lady , holding the small hands in her own , and feeling well repaid by the child 's delight .
`` Only Jack ; '' and Jill 's laugh was good to hear , as she glanced up with merry , yet wistful eyes .
`` You are right .
We 'll have him in at once , or he will come hopping on one leg ; '' and away hurried his mother , laughing , too , for whistles , shouts , thumps , and violent demonstrations of all kinds had been heard from the room where Jack was raging with impatience , while he waited for his share of the surprise .
Jill could hardly lie still when she heard the roll of another chair-bed coming down the hall , its passage enlivened with cries of `` Starboard !
Port !
Easy now !
Pull away ! ''
from Ralph and Frank , as they steered the recumbent Columbus on his first voyage of discovery .
`` Well , I call that handsome ! ''
was Jack 's exclamation , when the full beauty of the scene burst upon his view .
Then he forgot all about it and gave a whoop of pleasure , for there beside the fire was an eager face , two hands beckoning , and Jill 's voice crying , joyfully , -- `` I 'm here !
I 'm here !
Oh , do come , quick ! ''
Down the long room rattled the chair , Jack cheering all the way , and brought up beside the other one , as the long-parted friends exclaimed , with one accord , -- `` Is n't this jolly ! ''
It certainly did look so , for Ralph and Frank danced a wild sort of fandango round the tree , Dr. Whiting stood and laughed , while the two mothers beamed from the door-way , and the children , not knowing whether to laugh or to cry , compromised the matter by clapping their hands and shouting , `` Merry Christmas to everybody ! ''
like a pair of little maniacs .
Then they all sobered down , and the busy ones went off to the various duties of the day , leaving the young invalids to repose and enjoy themselves together .
`` How nice you look , '' said Jill , when they had duly admired the pretty room .
`` So do you , '' gallantly returned Jack , as he surveyed her with unusual interest .
They did look very nice , though happiness was the principal beautifier .
Jill wore a red wrapper , with the most brilliant of all the necklaces sparkling at her throat , over a nicely crimped frill her mother had made in honor of the day .
All the curly black hair was gathered into a red net , and a pair of smart little moccasins covered the feet that had not stepped for many a weary day .
Jack was not so gay , but had made himself as fine as circumstances would permit .
A gray dressing-gown , with blue cuffs and collar , was very becoming to the blonde youth ; an immaculate shirt , best studs , sleeve-buttons , blue tie , and handkerchief wet with cologne sticking out of the breast-pocket , gave an air of elegance in spite of the afghan spread over the lower portions of his manly form .
The yellow hair was brushed till it shone , and being parted in the middle , to hide the black patch , made two engaging little `` quirls '' on his forehead .
The summer tan had faded from his cheeks , but his eyes were as blue as the wintry sky , and nearly every white tooth was visible as he smiled on his partner in misfortune , saying cheerily , -- `` I 'm ever so glad to see you again ; guess we are over the worst of it now , and can have good times .
Wo n't it be fun to stay here all the while , and amuse one another ? ''
`` Yes , indeed ; but one day is so short !
It will be stupider than ever when I go home to-night , '' answered Jill , looking about her with longing eyes .
`` But you are not going home to-night ; you are to stay ever so long .
Did n't Mamma tell you ? ''
`` No .
Oh , how splendid !
Am I really ?
Where will I sleep ?
What will Mammy do without me ? ''
and Jill almost sat up , she was so delighted with the new surprise .
`` That room in there is all fixed for you .
I made Frank tell me so much .
Mamma said I might tell you , but I did n't think she would be able to hold in if she saw you first .
Your mother is coming , too , and we are all going to have larks together till we are well . ''
The splendor of this arrangement took Jill 's breath away , and before she got it again , in came Frank and Ralph with two clothes-baskets of treasures to be hung upon the tree .
While they wired on the candles the children asked questions , and found out all they wanted to know about the new plans and pleasures .
`` Who fixed all this ? ''
`` Mamma thought of it , and Ralph and I did it .
He 's the man for this sort of thing , you know .
He proposed cutting out the arches and sticking on birds and butterflies just where they looked best .
I put those canaries over there , they looked so well against the blue ; '' and Frank proudly pointed out some queer orange-colored fowls , looking as if they were having fits in the air , but very effective , nevertheless .
`` Your mother said you might call this the Bird Room .
We caught a scarlet-tanager for you to begin with , did n't we , Jack ? ''
and Ralph threw a bon-bon at Jill , who looked very like a bright little bird in a warm nest .
`` Good for you !
Yes , and we are going to keep her in this pretty cage till we can both fly off together .
I say , Jill , where shall we be in our classes when we do get back ? ''
and Jack 's merry face fell at the thought .
`` At the foot , if we do n't study and keep up .
Doctor said I might study sometimes , if I 'd lie still as long as he thought best , and Molly brought home my books , and Merry says she will come in every day and tell me where the lessons are .
I do n't mean to fall behind , if my backbone is cracked , '' said Jill , with a decided nod that made several black rings fly out of the net to dance on her forehead .
`` Frank said he 'd pull me along in my Latin , but I 've been lazy and have n't done a thing .
Let 's go at it and start fair for New Year , '' proposed Jack , who did not love study as the bright girl did , but was ashamed to fall behind her in anything .
`` All right .
They 've been reviewing , so we can keep up when they begin , if we work next week , while the rest have a holiday .
Oh , dear , I do miss school dreadfully ; '' and Jill sighed for the old desk , every blot and notch of which was dear to her .
`` There come our things , and pretty nice they look , too , '' said Jack ; and his mother began to dress the tree , hanging up the gay horns , the gilded nuts , red and yellow apples and oranges , and festooning long strings of pop-corn and scarlet cranberries from bough to bough , with the glittering necklaces hung where the light would show their colors best .
`` I never saw such a splendid tree before .
I 'm glad we could help , though we were ill .
Is it all done now ? ''
asked Jill , when the last parcel was tied on and everybody stood back to admire the pretty sight .
`` One thing more .
Hand me that box , Frank , and be very careful that you fasten this up firmly , Ralph , '' answered Mrs. Minot , as she took from its wrappings the waxen figure of a little child .
The rosy limbs were very life-like , so was the smiling face under the locks of shining hair .
Both plump arms were outspread as if to scatter blessings over all , and downy wings seemed to flutter from the dimpled shoulders , making an angel of the baby .
`` Is it St. Nicholas ? ''
asked Jill , who had never seen that famous personage , and knew but little of Christmas festivities .
`` It is the Christ-child , whose birthday we are celebrating .
I got the best I could find , for I like the idea better than old Santa Claus ; though we may have him , too , '' said Mamma , holding the little image so that both could see it well .
`` It looks like a real baby ; '' and Jack touched the rosy foot with the tip of his finger , as if expecting a crow from the half-open lips .
`` It reminds me of the saints in the chapel of the Sacred Heart in Montreal .
One little St. John looked like this , only he had a lamb instead of wings , '' said Jill , stroking the flaxen hair , and wishing she dared ask for it to play with .
`` He is the children 's saint to pray to , love , and imitate , for he never forgot them , but blessed and healed and taught them all his life .
This is only a poor image of the holiest baby ever born , but I hope it will keep his memory in your minds all day , because this is the day for good resolutions , happy thoughts , and humble prayers , as well as play and gifts and feasting . ''
While she spoke , Mrs. Minot , touching the little figure as tenderly as if it were alive , had tied a broad white ribbon round it , and , handing it to Ralph , bade him fasten it to the hook above the tree-top , where it seemed to float as if the downy wings supported it .
Jack and Jill lay silently watching , with a sweet sort of soberness in their young faces , and for a moment the room was very still as all eyes looked up at the Blessed Child .
The sunshine seemed to grow more golden as it flickered on the little head , the flames glanced about the glittering tree as if trying to climb and kiss the baby feet , and , without , a chime of bells rang sweetly , calling people to hear again the lovely story of the life begun on Christmas Day .
Only a minute , but it did them good , and presently , when the pleasant work was over , and the workers gone , the boys to church , and Mamma to see about lunch for the invalids , Jack said , gravely , to Jill , -- `` I think we ought to be extra good , every one is so kind to us , and we are getting well , and going to have such capital times .
Do n't see how we can do anything else to show we are grateful . ''
`` It is n't easy to be good when one is sick , '' said Jill , thoughtfully .
`` I fret dreadfully , I get so tired of being still .
I want to scream sometimes , but I do n't , because it would scare Mammy , so I cry .
Do you cry , Jack ? ''
`` Men never do .
I want to tramp round when things bother me ; but I ca n't , so I kick and say , ` Hang it ! '
and when I get very bad I pitch into Frank , and he lets me .
I tell you , Jill , he 's a good brother ! ''
and Jack privately resolved then and there to invite Frank to take it out of him in any form he pleased as soon as health would permit .
`` I rather think we shall grow good in this pretty place , for I do n't see how we can be bad if we want to , it is all so nice and sort of pious here , '' said Jill , with her eyes on the angel over the tree .
`` A fellow can be awfully hungry , I know that .
I did n't half eat breakfast , I was in such a hurry to see you , and know all about the secrets .
Frank kept saying I could n't guess , that you had come , and I never would be ready , till finally I got mad and fired an egg at him , and made no end of a mess . ''
Jack and Jill went off into a gale of laughter at the idea of dignified Frank dodging the egg that smashed on the wall , leaving an indelible mark of Jack 's besetting sin , impatience .
Just then Mrs. Minot came in , well pleased to hear such pleasant sounds , and to see two merry faces , where usually one listless one met her anxious eyes .
`` The new medicine works well , neighbor , '' she said to Mrs. Pecq , who followed with the lunch tray .
`` Indeed it does , mem .
I feel as if I 'd taken a sup myself , I 'm that easy in my mind . ''
And she looked so , too , for she seemed to have left all her cares in the little house when she locked the door behind her , and now stood smiling with a clean apron on , so fresh and cheerful , that Jill hardly knew her own mother .
`` Things taste better when you have someone to eat with you , '' observed Jack , as they devoured sandwiches , and drank milk out of little mugs with rosebuds on them .
`` Do n't eat too much , or you wo n't be ready for the next surprise , '' said his mother , when the plates were empty , and the last drop gone down throats dry with much chatter .
`` More surprises !
Oh , what fun ! ''
cried Jill .
And all the rest of the morning , in the intervals of talk and play , they tried to guess what it could be .
At two o'clock they found out , for dinner was served in the Bird Room , and the children revelled in the simple feast prepared for them .
The two mothers kept the little bed-tables well supplied , and fed their nurslings like maternal birds , while Frank presided over the feast with great dignity , and ate a dinner which would have astonished Mamma , if she had not been too busy to observe how fast the mince pie vanished .
`` The girls said Christmas was spoiled because of us ; but I do n't think so , and they wo n't either , when they see this splendid place and know all about our nice plans , '' said Jill , luxuriously eating the nut-meats Jack picked out for her , as they lay in Eastern style at the festive board .
`` I call this broken bones made easy .
I never had a better Christmas .
Have a raisin ?
Here 's a good fat one . ''
And Jack made a long arm to Jill 's mouth , which began to sing `` Little Jack Horner '' as an appropriate return .
`` It would have been a lonesome one to all of us , I 'm thinking , but for your mother , boys .
My duty and hearty thanks to you , mem , '' put in grateful Mrs. Pecq , bowing over her coffee-cup as she had seen ladies bow over their wine-glasses at dinner parties in Old England .
`` I rise to propose a health , Our Mothers . ''
And Frank stood up with a goblet of water , for not even at Christmas time was wine seen on that table .
`` Hip , hip , hurrah ! ''
called Jack , baptizing himself with a good sprinkle , as he waved his glass and drank the toast with a look that made his mother 's eyes fill with happy tears .
Jill threw her mother a kiss , feeling very grown up and elegant to be dining out in such style .
Then they drank every one 's health with much merriment , till Frank declared that Jack would float off on the deluge of water he splashed about in his enthusiasm , and Mamma proposed a rest after the merry-making .
`` Now the best fun is coming , and we have not long to wait , '' said the boy , when naps and rides about the room had whiled away the brief interval between dinner and dusk , for the evening entertainment was to be an early one , to suit the invalids ' bedtime .
`` I hope the girls will like their things .
I helped to choose them , and each has a nice present .
I do n't know mine , though , and I 'm in a twitter to see it , '' said Jill , as they lay waiting for the fun to begin .
`` I do ; I chose it , so I know you will like one of them , any way . ''
`` Have I got more than one ? ''
`` I guess you 'll think so when they are handed down .
The bell was going all day yesterday , and the girls kept bringing in bundles for you ; I see seven now , '' and Jack rolled his eyes from one mysterious parcel to another hanging on the laden boughs .
`` I know something , too .
That square bundle is what you want ever so much .
I told Frank , and he got it for his present .
It is all red and gold outside , and every sort of color inside ; you 'll hurrah when you see it .
That roundish one is yours too ; I made them , '' cried Jill , pointing to a flat package tied to the stem of the tree , and a neat little roll in which were the blue mittens that she had knit for him .
`` I can wait ; '' but the boy 's eyes shone with eagerness , and he could not resist firing two or three pop-corns at it to see whether it was hard or soft .
`` That barking dog is for Boo , and the little yellow sled , so Molly can drag him to school , he always tumbles down so when it is slippery , '' continued Jill , proud of her superior knowledge , as she showed a small spotted animal hanging by its tail , with a red tongue displayed as if about to taste the sweeties in the horn below .
`` Do n't talk about sleds , for mercy 's sake !
I never want to see another , and you would n't , either , if you had to lie with a flat-iron tied to your ankle , as I do , '' said Jack , with a kick of the well leg and an ireful glance at the weight attached to the other that it might not contract while healing .
`` Well , I think plasters , and liniment , and rubbing , as bad as flat-irons any day .
I do n't believe you have ached half so much as I have , though it sounds worse to break legs than to sprain your back , '' protested Jill , eager to prove herself the greater sufferer , as invalids are apt to be .
`` I guess you would n't think so if you 'd been pulled round as I was when they set my leg .
Caesar , how it did hurt ! ''
and Jack squirmed at the recollection of it .
`` You did n't faint away as I did when the doctor was finding out if my vertebrums were hurt , so now ! ''
cried Jill , bound to carry her point , though not at all clear what vertebrae were .
`` Pooh !
Girls always faint .
Men are braver , and I did n't faint a bit in spite of all that horrid agony . ''
`` You howled ; Frank told me so .
Doctor said I was a brave girl , so you need n't brag , for you 'll have to go on a crutch for a while .
I know that . ''
`` You may have to use two of them for years , may be .
I heard the doctor tell my mother so .
I shall be up and about long before you will .
Now then ! ''
Both children were getting excited , for the various pleasures of the day had been rather too much for them , and there is no knowing but they would have added the sad surprise of a quarrel to the pleasant ones of the day , if a cheerful whistle had not been heard , as Ralph came in to light the candles and give the last artistic touches to the room .
`` Well , young folks , how goes it ?
Had a merry time so far ? ''
he asked , as he fixed the steps and ran up with a lighted match in his hand .
`` Very nice , thank you , '' answered a prim little voice from the dusk below , for only the glow of the fire filled the room just then .
Jack said nothing , and two red sulky faces were hidden in the dark , watching candle after candle sputter , brighten , and twinkle , till the trembling shadows began to flit away like imps afraid of the light .
`` Now he will see my face , and I know it is cross , '' thought Jill , as Ralph went round the last circle , leaving another line of sparks among the hemlock boughs .
Jack thought the same , and had just got the frown smoothed out of his forehead , when Frank brought a fresh log , and a glorious blaze sprung up , filling every corner of the room , and dancing over the figures in the long chairs till they had to brighten whether they liked it or not .
Presently the bell began to ring and gay voices to sound below : then Jill smiled in spite of herself as Molly Loo 's usual cry of `` Oh , dear , where is that child ? ''
reached her , and Jack could not help keeping time to the march Ed played , while Frank and Gus marshalled the procession .
`` Ready ! ''
cried Mrs. Minot , at last , and up came the troop of eager lads and lasses , brave in holiday suits , with faces to match .
A unanimous `` O , o , o ! ''
burst from twenty tongues , as the full splendor of the tree , the room , and its inmates , dawned upon them ; for not only did the pretty Christ-child hover above , but Santa Claus himself stood below , fur-clad , white-bearded , and powdered with snow from the dredging-box .
Ralph was a good actor , and , when the first raptures were over he distributed the presents with such droll speeches , jokes , and gambols , that the room rang with merriment , and passers-by paused to listen , sure that here , at least , Christmas was merry .
It would be impossible to tell about all the gifts or the joy of the receivers , but every one was satisfied , and the king and queen of the revels so overwhelmed with little tokens of good-will , that their beds looked like booths at a fair .
Jack beamed over the handsome postage-stamp book which had long been the desire of his heart , and Jill felt like a millionaire , with a silver fruit-knife , a pretty work-basket , and oh !
-- coals of fire on her head !
-- a ring from Jack .
A simple little thing enough , with one tiny turquoise forget-me-not , but something like a dew-drop fell on it when no one was looking , and she longed to say , `` I 'm sorry I was cross ; forgive me , Jack . ''
But it could not be done then , so she turned to admire Merry 's bed-shoes , the pots of pansies , hyacinths , and geranium which Gus and his sisters sent for her window garden , Molly 's queer Christmas pie , and the zither Ed promised to teach her how to play upon .
The tree was soon stripped , and pop-corns strewed the floor as the children stood about picking them off the red threads when candy gave out , with an occasional cranberry by way of relish .
Boo insisted on trying the new sled at once , and enlivened the trip by the squeaking of the spotted dog , the toot of a tin trumpet , and shouts of joy at the splendor of the turn-out .
The girls all put on their necklaces , and danced about like fine ladies at a ball .
The boys fell to comparing skates , balls , and cuff-buttons on the spot , while the little ones devoted all their energies to eating everything eatable they could lay their hands on .
Games were played till nine o'clock , and then the party broke up , after they had taken hands round the tree and sung a song written by one whom you all know , -- so faithfully and beautifully does she love and labor for children the world over .
THE BLESSED DAY `` What shall little children bring On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ?
What shall little children bring On Christmas Day in the morning ?
This shall little children bring On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ; Love and joy to Christ their king , On Christmas Day in the morning !
`` What shall little children sing On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ?
What shall little children sing On Christmas Day in the morning ?
The grand old carols shall they sing On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ; With all their hearts , their offerings bring On Christmas Day in the morning . ''
Jack was carried off to bed in such haste that he had only time to call out , `` Good-night ! ''
before he was rolled away , gaping as he went .
Jill soon found herself tucked up in the great white bed she was to share with her mother , and lay looking about the pleasant chamber , while Mrs. Pecq ran home for a minute to see that all was safe there for the night .
After the merry din the house seemed very still , with only a light step now and then , the murmur of voices not far away , or the jingle of sleigh-bells from without , and the little girl rested easily among the pillows , thinking over the pleasures of the day , too wide-awake for sleep .
There was no lamp in the chamber , but she could look into the pretty Bird Room , where the fire-light still shone on flowery walls , deserted tree , and Christ-child floating above the green .
Jill 's eyes wandered there and lingered till they were full of regretful tears , because the sight of the little angel recalled the words spoken when it was hung up , the good resolution she had taken then , and how soon it was broken .
`` I said I could n't be bad in that lovely place , and I was a cross , ungrateful girl after all they 've done for Mammy and me .
Poor Jack was hurt the worst , and he was brave , though he did scream .
I wish I could go and tell him so , and hear him say , ` All right . '
Oh , me , I 've spoiled the day ! ''
A great sob choked more words , and Jill was about to have a comfortable cry , when someone entered the other room , and she saw Frank doing something with a long cord and a thing that looked like a tiny drum .
Quiet as a bright-eyed mouse , Jill peeped out wondering what it was , and suspecting mischief , for the boy was laughing to himself as he stretched the cord , and now and then bent over the little object in his hand , touching it with great care .
`` May be it 's a torpedo to blow up and scare me ; Jack likes to play tricks .
Well , I 'll scream loud when it goes off , so he will be satisfied that I 'm dreadfully frightened , '' thought Jill , little dreaming what the last surprise of the day was to be .
Presently a voice whispered , -- `` I say !
Are you awake ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Any one there but you ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Catch this , then .
Hold it to your ear and see what you 'll get . ''
The little drum came flying in , and , catching it , Jill , with some hesitation , obeyed Frank 's order .
Judge of her amazement when she caught in broken whispers these touching words : -- `` Sorry I was cross .
Forgive and forget .
Start fair to-morrow .
All right .
Jack . ''
Jill was so delighted with this handsome apology , that she could not reply for a moment , then steadied her voice , and answered back in her sweetest tone , -- `` I 'm sorry , too .
Never , never , will again .
Feel much better now .
Good-night , you dear old thing . ''
Satisfied with the success of his telephone , Frank twitched back the drum and vanished , leaving Jill to lay her cheek upon the hand that wore the little ring and fall asleep , saying to herself , with a farewell glance at the children 's saint , dimly seen in the soft gloom , `` I will not forget .
I will be good ! ''
Chapter VII .
Jill 's Mission The good times began immediately , and very little studying was done that week in spite of the virtuous resolutions made by certain young persons on Christmas Day .
But , dear me , how was it possible to settle down to lessons in the delightful Bird Room , with not only its own charms to distract one , but all the new gifts to enjoy , and a dozen calls a day to occupy one 's time ?
`` I guess we 'd better wait till the others are at school , and just go in for fun this week , '' said Jack , who was in great spirits at the prospect of getting up , for the splints were off , and he hoped to be promoted to crutches very soon . ''
I shall keep my Speller by me and take a look at it every day , for that is what I 'm most backward in .
But I intend to devote myself to you , Jack , and be real kind and useful .
I 've made a plan to do it , and I mean to carry it out , any way , '' answered Jill , who had begun to be a missionary , and felt that this was a field of labor where she could distinguish herself .
`` Here 's a home mission all ready for you , and you can be paying your debts beside doing yourself good , '' Mrs. Pecq said to her in private , having found plenty to do herself .
Now Jill made one great mistake at the outset -- she forgot that she was the one to be converted to good manners and gentleness , and devoted her efforts to looking after Jack , finding it much easier to cure other people 's faults than her own .
Jack was a most engaging heathen , and needed very little instruction ; therefore Jill thought her task would be an easy one .
But three or four weeks of petting and play had rather demoralized both children , so Jill 's Speller , though tucked under the sofa pillow every day , was seldom looked at , and Jack shirked his Latin shamefully .
Both read all the story-books they could get , held daily levees in the Bird Room , and all their spare minutes were spent in teaching Snowdrop , the great Angora cat , to bring the ball when they dropped it in their game .
So Saturday came , and both were rather the worse for so much idleness , since daily duties and studies are the wholesome bread which feeds the mind better than the dyspeptic plum-cake of sensational reading , or the unsubstantial bon-bons of frivolous amusement .
It was a stormy day , so they had few callers , and devoted themselves to arranging the album ; for these books were all the rage just then , and boys met to compare , discuss , buy , sell , and `` swap '' stamps with as much interest as men on ` Change gamble in stocks .
Jack had a nice little collection , and had been saving up pocket-money to buy a book in which to preserve his treasures .
Now , thanks to Jill 's timely suggestion , Frank had given him a fine one , and several friends had contributed a number of rare stamps to grace the large , inviting pages .
Jill wielded the gum-brush and fitted on the little flaps , as her fingers were skilful at this nice work , and Jack put each stamp in its proper place with great rustling of leaves and comparing of marks .
Returning , after a brief absence , Mrs. Minot beheld the countenances of the workers adorned with gay stamps , giving them a very curious appearance .
`` My dears !
what new play have you got now ?
Are you wild Indians ?
or letters that have gone round the world before finding the right address ? ''
she asked , laughing at the ridiculous sight , for both were as sober as judges and deeply absorbed in some doubtful specimen .
`` Oh , we just stuck them there to keep them safe ; they get lost if we leave them lying round .
It 's very handy , for I can see in a minute what I want on Jill 's face and she on mine , and put our fingers on the right chap at once , '' answered Jack , adding , with an anxious gaze at his friend 's variegated countenance , `` Where the dickens is my New Granada ?
It 's rare , and I would n't lose it for a dollar . ''
`` Why , there it is on your own nose .
Do n't you remember you put it there because you said mine was not big enough to hold it ? ''
laughed Jill , tweaking a large orange square off the round nose of her neighbor , causing it to wrinkle up in a droll way , as the gum made the operation slightly painful .
`` So I did , and gave you Little Bolivar on yours .
Now I 'll have Alsace and Lorraine , 1870 .
There are seven of them , so hold still and see how you like it , '' returned Jack , picking the large , pale stamps one by one from Jill 's forehead , which they crossed like a band .
She bore it without flinching , saying to herself with a secret smile , as she glanced at the hot fire , which scorched her if she kept near enough to Jack to help him , `` This really is being like a missionary , with a tattooed savage to look after .
I have to suffer a little , as the good folks did who got speared and roasted sometimes ; but I wo n't complain a bit , though my forehead smarts , my arms are tired , and one cheek is as red as fire . ''
`` The Roman States make a handsome page , do n't they ? ''
asked Jack , little dreaming of the part he was playing in Jill 's mind .
`` Oh , I say , is n't Corea a beauty ?
I 'm ever so proud of that ; '' and he gazed fondly on a big blue stamp , the sole ornament of one page .
`` I do n't see why the Cape of Good Hope has pyramids .
They ought to go in Egypt .
The Sandwich Islands are all right , with heads of the black kings and queens on them , '' said Jill , feeling that they were very appropriate to her private play .
`` Turkey has crescents , Australia swans , and Spain women 's heads , with black bars across them .
Frank says it is because they keep women shut up so ; but that was only his fun .
I 'd rather have a good , honest green United States , with Washington on it , or a blue one-center with old Franklin , than all their eagles and lions and kings and queens put together , '' added the democratic boy , with a disrespectful slap on a crowned head as he settled Heligoland in its place .
`` Why does Austria have Mercury on the stamp , I wonder ?
Do they wear helmets like that ? ''
asked Jill , with the brush-handle in her mouth as she cut a fresh batch of flaps .
`` May be he was postman to the gods , so he is put on stamps now .
The Prussians wear helmets , but they have spikes like the old Roman fellows .
I like Prussians ever so much ; they fight splendidly , and always beat .
Austrians have a handsome uniform , though . ''
`` Talking of Romans reminds me that I have not heard your Latin for two days .
Come , lazybones , brace up , and let us have it now .
I 've done my compo , and shall have just time before I go out for a tramp with Gus , '' said Frank , putting by a neat page to dry , for he studied every day like a conscientious lad as he was .
`` Do n't know it .
Not going to try till next week .
Grind away over your old Greek as much as you like , but do n't bother me , '' answered Jack , frowning at the mere thought of the detested lesson .
But Frank adored his Xenophon , and would not see his old friend , Caesar , neglected without an effort to defend him ; so he confiscated the gum-pot , and effectually stopped the stamp business by whisking away at one fell swoop all that lay on Jill 's table .
`` Now then , young man , you will quit this sort of nonsense and do your lesson , or you wo n't see these fellows again in a hurry .
You asked me to hear you , and I 'm going to do it ; here 's the book . ''
Frank 's tone was the dictatorial one , which Jack hated and always found hard to obey , especially when he knew he ought to do it .
Usually , when his patience was tried , he strode about the room , or ran off for a race round the garden , coming back breathless , but good-tempered .
Now both these vents for irritation were denied him , and he had fallen into the way of throwing things about in a pet .
He longed to send Caesar to perpetual banishment in the fire blazing close by , but resisted the temptation , and answered honestly , though gruffly : `` I know I did , but I do n't see any use in pouncing on a fellow when he is n't ready .
I have n't got my lesson , and do n't mean to worry about it ; so you may just give me back my things and go about your business . ''
`` I 'll give you back a stamp for every perfect lesson you get , and you wo n't see them on any other terms ; '' and , thrusting the treasures into his pocket , Frank caught up his rubber boots , and went off swinging them like a pair of clubs , feeling that he would give a trifle to be able to use them on his lazy brother .
At this high-handed proceeding , and the threat which accompanied it , Jack 's patience gave out , and catching up Caesar , as he thought , sent him flying after the retreating tyrant with the defiant declaration , -- `` Keep them , then , and your old book , too !
I wo n't look at it till you give all my stamps back and say you are sorry .
So now ! ''
It was all over before Mamma could interfere , or Jill do more than clutch and cling to the gum-brush .
Frank vanished unharmed , but the poor book dashed against the wall to fall half open on the floor , its gay cover loosened , and its smooth leaves crushed by the blow .
`` It 's the album !
O Jack , how could you ? ''
cried Jill , dismayed at sight of the precious book so maltreated by the owner .
`` Thought it was the other .
Guess it is n't hurt much .
Did n't mean to hit him , any way .
He does provoke me so , '' muttered Jack , very red and shamefaced as his mother picked up the book and laid it silently on the table before him .
He did not know what to do with himself , and was thankful for the stamps still left him , finding great relief in making faces as he plucked them one by one from his mortified countenance .
Jill looked on , half glad , half sorry that her savage showed such signs of unconverted ferocity , and Mrs. Minot went on writing letters , wearing the grave look her sons found harder to bear than another person 's scolding .
No one spoke for a moment , and the silence was becoming awkward when Gus appeared in a rubber suit , bringing a book to Jack from Laura and a note to Jill from Lotty .
`` Look here , you just trundle me into my den , please , I 'm going to have a nap , it 's so dull to-day I do n't feel like doing much , '' said Jack , when Gus had done his errands , trying to look as if he knew nothing about the fracas .
Jack folded his arms and departed like a warrior borne from the battle-field , to be chaffed unmercifully for a `` pepper-pot , '' while Gus made him comfortable in his own room .
`` I heard once of a boy who threw a fork at his brother and put his eye out .
But he did n't mean to , and the brother forgave him , and he never did so any more , '' observed Jill , in a pensive tone , wishing to show that she felt all the dangers of impatience , but was sorry for the culprit .
`` Did the boy ever forgive himself ? ''
asked Mrs. Minot .
`` No , 'm ; I suppose not .
But Jack did n't hit Frank , and feels real sorry , I know . ''
`` He might have , and hurt him very much .
Our actions are in our own hands , but the consequences of them are not .
Remember that , my dear , and think twice before you do anything . ''
`` Yes , 'm , I will ; '' and Jill composed herself to consider what missionaries usually did when the natives hurled tomahawks and boomerangs at one another , and defied the rulers of the land .
Mrs. Minot wrote one page of a new letter , then stopped , pushed her papers about , thought a little , and finally got up , saying , as if she found it impossible to resist the yearning of her heart for the naughty boy , -- `` I am going to see if Jack is covered up , he is so helpless , and liable to take cold .
Do n't stir till I come back . ''
`` No , 'm , I wo n't . ''
Away went the tender parent to find her son studying Caesar for dear life , and all the more amiable for the little gust which had blown away the temporary irritability .
The brothers were often called `` Thunder and Lightning , '' because Frank lowered and growled and was a good while clearing up , while Jack 's temper came and went like a flash , and the air was all the clearer for the escape of dangerous electricity .
Of course Mamma had to stop and deliver a little lecture , illustrated by sad tales of petulant boys , and punctuated with kisses which took off the edge of these afflicting narratives .
Jill meantime meditated morally on the superiority of her own good temper over the hasty one of her dear playmate , and just when she was feeling unusually uplifted and secure , alas !
like so many of us , she fell , in the most deplorable manner .
Glancing about the room for something to do , she saw a sheet of paper lying exactly out of reach , where it had fluttered from the table unperceived .
At first her eye rested on it as carelessly as it did on the stray stamp Frank had dropped ; then , as if one thing suggested the other , she took it into her head that the paper was Frank 's composition , or , better still , a note to Annette , for the two corresponded when absence or weather prevented the daily meeting at school .
`` Would n't it be fun to keep it till he gives back Jack 's stamps ?
It would plague him so if it was a note , and I do believe it is , for compo 's do n't begin with two words on one side .
I 'll get it , and Jack and I will plan some way to pay him off , cross thing ! ''
Forgetting her promise not to stir , also how dishonorable it was to read other people 's letters , Jill caught up the long-handled hook , often in use now , and tried to pull the paper nearer .
It would not come at once , for a seam in the carpet held it , and Jill feared to tear or crumple it if she was not very careful .
The hook was rather heavy and long for her to manage , and Jack usually did the fishing , so she was not very skilful ; and just as she was giving a particularly quick jerk , she lost her balance , fell off the sofa , and dropped the pole with a bang .
`` Oh , my back ! ''
was all she could think or say as she felt the jar all through her little body , and a corresponding fear in her guilty little mind that someone would come and find out the double mischief she had been at .
For a moment she lay quite still to recover from the shock , then as the pain passed she began to wonder how she should get back , and looked about her to see if she could do it alone .
She thought she could , as the sofa was near and she had improved so much that she could sit up a little if the doctor would have let her .
She was gathering herself together for the effort , when , within arm 's reach now , she saw the tempting paper , and seized it with glee , for in spite of her predicament she did want to tease Frank .
A glance showed that it was not the composition nor a note , but the beginning of a letter from Mrs. Minot to her sister , and Jill was about to lay it down when her own name caught her eye , and she could not resist reading it .
Hard words to write of one so young , doubly hard to read , and impossible to forget .
`` Dear Lizzie , -- Jack continues to do very well , and will soon be up again .
But we begin to fear that the little girl is permanently injured in the back .
She is here , and we do our best for her ; but I never look at her without thinking of Lucinda Snow , who , you remember , was bedridden for twenty years , owing to a fall at fifteen .
Poor little Janey does not know yet , and I hope '' -- There it ended , and `` poor little Janey 's '' punishment for disobedience began that instant .
She thought she was getting well because she did not suffer all the time , and every one spoke cheerfully about `` by and by . ''
Now she knew the truth , and shut her eyes with a shiver as she said , low , to herself , -- `` Twenty years !
I could n't bear it ; oh , I could n't bear it ! ''
A very miserable Jill lay on the floor , and for a while did not care who came and found her ; then the last words of the letter -- `` I hope '' -- seemed to shine across the blackness of the dreadful `` twenty years '' and cheer her up a bit , for despair never lives long in young hearts , and Jill was a brave child .
`` That is why Mammy sighs so when she dresses me , and every one is so good to me .
Perhaps Mrs. Minot does n't really know , after all .
She was dreadfully scared about Jack , and he is getting well .
I 'd like to ask Doctor , but he might find out about the letter .
Oh , dear , why did n't I keep still and let the horrid thing alone ! ''
As she thought that , Jill pushed the paper away , pulled herself up , and with much painful effort managed to get back to her sofa , where she laid herself down with a groan , feeling as if the twenty years had already passed over her since she tumbled off .
`` I 've told a lie , for I said I would n't stir .
I 've hurt my back , I 've done a mean thing , and I 've got paid for it .
A nice missionary I am ; I 'd better begin at home , as Mammy told me to ; '' and Jill groaned again , remembering her mother 's words .
`` Now I 've got another secret to keep all alone , for I 'd be ashamed to tell the girls .
I guess I 'll turn round and study my spelling ; then no one will see my face . ''
Jill looked the picture of a good , industrious child as she lay with her back to the large table , her book held so that nothing was to be seen but one cheek and a pair of lips moving busily .
Fortunately , it is difficult for little sinners to act a part , and , even if the face is hidden , something in the body seems to betray the internal remorse and shame .
Usually , Jill lay flat and still ; now her back was bent in a peculiar way as she leaned over her book , and one foot wagged nervously , while on the visible cheek was a Spanish stamp with a woman 's face looking through the black bars , very suggestively , if she had known it .
How long the minutes seemed till some one came , and what a queer little jump her heart gave when Mrs. Minot 's voice said , cheerfully , `` Jack is all right , and , I declare , so is Jill .
I really believe there is a telegraph still working somewhere between you two , and each knows what the other is about without words . ''
`` I did n't have any other book handy , so I thought I 'd study awhile , '' answered Jill , feeling that she deserved no praise for her seeming industry .
She cast a sidelong glance as she spoke , and seeing that Mrs. Minot was looking for the letter , hid her face and lay so still she could hear the rustle of the paper as it was taken from the floor .
It was well she did not also see the quick look the lady gave her as she turned the letter and found a red stamp sticking to the under side , for this unlucky little witness told the story .
Mrs. Minot remembered having seen the stamp lying close to the sofa when she left the room , for she had had half a mind to take it to Jack , but did not , thinking Frank 's plan had some advantages .
She also recollected that a paper flew off the table , but being in haste she had not stopped to see what it was .
Now , the stamp and the letter could hardly have come together without hands , for they lay a yard apart , and here , also , on the unwritten portion of the page , was the mark of a small green thumb .
Jill had been winding wool for a stripe in her new afghan , and the green ball lay on her sofa .
These signs suggested and confirmed what Mrs. Minot did not want to believe ; so did the voice , attitude , and air of Jill , all very unlike her usual open , alert ways .
The kind lady could easily forgive the reading of her letter since the girl had found such sad news there , but the dangers of disobedience were serious in her case , and a glance showed that she was suffering either in mind or body -- perhaps both .
`` I will wait for her to tell me .
She is an honest child , and the truth will soon come out , '' thought Mrs. Minot , as she took a clean sheet , and Jill tried to study .
`` Shall I hear your lesson , dear ?
Jack means to recite his like a good boy , so suppose you follow his example , '' she said , presently .
`` I do n't know as I can say it , but I 'll try . ''
Jill did try , and got on bravely till she came to the word `` permanent ; '' there she hesitated , remembering where she saw it last .
`` Do you know what that means ? ''
asked her teacher , thinking to help her on by defining the word .
`` Always -- for a great while -- or something like that ; does n't it ? ''
faltered Jill , with a tight feeling in her throat , and the color coming up , as she tried to speak easily , yet felt so shame-stricken she could not .
`` Are you in pain , my child ?
Never mind the lesson ; tell me , and I 'll do something for you . ''
The kind words , the soft hand on her hot cheek , and the pity in the eyes that looked at her , were too much for Jill .
A sob came first , and then the truth , told with hidden face and tears that washed the blush away , and set free the honest little soul that could not hide its fault from such a friend .
`` I knew it all before , and was sure you would tell me , else you would not be the child I love and like to help so well . ''
Then , while she soothed Jill 's trouble , Mrs. Minot told her story and showed the letter , wishing to lessen , if possible , some part of the pain it had given .
`` Sly old stamp !
To go and tell on me when I meant to own up , and get some credit if I could , after being so mean and bad , '' said Jill , smiling through her tears when she saw the tell-tale witnesses against her .
`` You had better stick it in your book to remind you of the bad consequences of disobedience , then perhaps this lesson will leave a ` permanent ' impression on your mind and memory , '' answered Mrs. Minot , glad to see her natural gayety coming back , and hoping that she had forgotten the contents of the unfortunate letter .
But she had not ; and presently , when the sad affair had been talked over and forgiven , Jill asked , slowly , as she tried to put on a brave look , -- `` Please tell me about Lucinda Snow .
If I am to be like her , I might as well know how she managed to bear it so long . ''
`` I 'm sorry you ever heard of her , and yet perhaps it may help you to bear your trial , dear , which I hope will never be as heavy a one as hers .
This Lucinda I knew for years , and though at first I thought her fate the saddest that could be , I came at last to see how happy she was in spite of her affliction , how good and useful and beloved . ''
`` Why , how could she be ?
What did she do ? ''
cried Jill , forgetting her own troubles to look up with an open , eager face again .
`` She was so patient , other people were ashamed to complain of their small worries ; so cheerful , that her own great one grew lighter ; so industrious , that she made both money and friends by pretty things she worked and sold to her many visitors .
And , best of all , so wise and sweet that she seemed to get good out of everything , and make her poor room a sort of chapel where people went for comfort , counsel , and an example of a pious life .
So , you see , Lucinda was not so very miserable after all . ''
`` Well , if I could not be as I was , I 'd like to be a woman like that .
Only , I hope I shall not ! ''
answered Jill , thoughtfully at first , then coming out so decidedly with the last words that it was evident the life of a bedridden saint was not at all to her mind .
`` So do I ; and I mean to believe that you will not .
Meantime , we can try to make the waiting as useful and pleasant as possible .
This painful little back will be a sort of conscience to remind you of what you ought to do and leave undone , and so you can be learning obedience .
Then , when the body is strong , it will have formed a good habit to make duty easier ; and my Lucinda can be a sweet example , even while lying here , if she chooses . ''
`` Can I ? ''
and Jill 's eyes were full of softer tears as the comfortable , cheering words sank into her heart , to blossom slowly by and by into her life , for this was to be a long lesson , hard to learn , but very useful in the years to come .
When the boys returned , after the Latin was recited and peace restored , Jack showed her a recovered stamp promptly paid by Frank , who was as just as he was severe , and Jill asked for the old red one , though she did not tell why she wanted it , nor show it put away in the spelling-book , a little seal upon a promise made to be kept .
Chapter VIII .
Merry and Molly Now let us see how the other missionaries got on with their tasks .
Farmer Grant was a thrifty , well-to-do man , anxious to give his children greater advantages than he had enjoyed , and to improve the fine place of which he was justly proud .
Mrs. Grant was a notable housewife , as ambitious and industrious as her husband , but too busy to spend any time on the elegancies of life , though always ready to help the poor and sick like a good neighbor and Christian woman .
The three sons -- Tom , Dick , and Harry -- were big fellows of seventeen , nineteen , and twenty-one ; the first two on the farm , and the elder in a store just setting up for himself .
Kind-hearted but rough-mannered youths , who loved Merry very much , but teased her sadly about her `` fine lady airs , '' as they called her dainty ways and love of beauty .
Merry was a thoughtful girl , full of innocent fancies , refined tastes , and romantic dreams , in which no one sympathized at home , though she was the pet of the family .
It did seem , to an outsider , as if the delicate little creature had got there by mistake , for she looked very like a tea-rose in a field of clover and dandelions , whose highest aim in life was to feed cows and help make root beer .
When the girls talked over the new society , it pleased Merry very much , and she decided not only to try and love work better , but to convert her family to a liking for pretty things , as she called her own more cultivated tastes .
`` I will begin at once , and show them that I do n't mean to shirk my duty , though I do want to be nice , '' thought she , as she sat at supper one night and looked about her , planning her first move .
Not a very cheering prospect for a lover of the beautiful , certainly , for the big kitchen , though as neat as wax , had nothing lovely in it , except a red geranium blooming at the window .
Nor were the people all that could be desired , in some respects , as they sat about the table shovelling in pork and beans with their knives , drinking tea from their saucers , and laughing out with a hearty `` Haw , haw , '' when anything amused them .
Yet the boys were handsome , strong specimens , the farmer a hale , benevolent-looking man , the housewife a pleasant , sharp-eyed matron , who seemed to find comfort in looking often at the bright face at her elbow , with the broad forehead , clear eyes , sweet mouth , and quiet voice that came like music in among the loud masculine ones , or the quick , nervous tones of a woman always in a hurry .
Merry 's face was so thoughtful that evening that her father observed it , for , when at home , he watched her as one watches a kitten , glad to see anything so pretty , young , and happy , at its play .
`` Little daughter has got something on her mind , I mistrust .
Come and tell father all about it , '' he said , with a sounding slap on his broad knee as he turned his chair from the table to the ugly stove , where three pairs of wet boots steamed underneath , and a great kettle of cider apple-sauce simmered above .
`` When I 've helped clear up , I 'll come and talk .
Now , mother , you sit down and rest ; Roxy and I can do everything , '' answered Merry , patting the old rocking-chair so invitingly that the tired woman could not resist , especially as watching the kettle gave her an excuse for obeying .
`` Well , I do n't care if I do , for I 've been on my feet since five o'clock .
Be sure you cover things up , and shut the buttery door , and put the cat down cellar , and sift your meal .
I 'll see to the buckwheats last thing before I go to bed . ''
Mrs. Grant subsided with her knitting , for her hands were never idle ; Tom tilted his chair back against the wall and picked his teeth with his pen-knife ; Dick got out a little pot of grease , to make the boots water-tight ; and Harry sat down at the small table to look over his accounts , with an important air , -- for every one occupied this room , and the work was done in the out-kitchen behind .
Merry hated clearing up , but dutifully did every distasteful task , and kept her eye on careless Roxy till all was in order ; then she gladly went to perch on her father 's knee , seeing in all the faces about her the silent welcome they always wore for the `` little one . ''
`` Yes , I do want something , but I know you will say it is silly , '' she began , as her father pinched her blooming cheek , with the wish that his peaches would ever look half as well .
`` Should n't wonder if it was a doll now ; '' and Mr. Grant stroked her head with an indulgent smile , as if she was about six instead of fifteen .
`` Why , father , you know I do n't !
I have n't played with dollies for years and years .
No ; I want to fix up my room pretty , like Jill 's .
I 'll do it all myself , and only want a few things , for I do n't expect it to look as nice as hers . ''
Indignation gave Merry courage to state her wishes boldly , though she knew the boys would laugh .
They did , and her mother said in a tone of surprise , -- `` Why , child , what more can you want ?
I 'm sure your room is always as neat as a new pin , thanks to your bringing up , and I told you to have a fire there whenever you wanted to . ''
`` Let me have some old things out of the garret , and I 'll show you what I want .
It is neat , but so bare and ugly I hate to be there .
I do so love something pretty to look at ! ''
and Merry gave a little shiver of disgust as she turned her eyes away from the large greasy boot Dick was holding up to be sure it was well lubricated all round .
`` So do I , and that 's a fact .
I could n't get on without my pretty girl here , any way .
Why , she touches up the old place better than a dozen flower-pots in full blow , '' said the farmer , as his eye went from the scarlet geranium to the bright young face so near his own .
`` I wish I had a dozen in the sitting-room window .
Mother says they are not tidy , but I 'd keep them neat , and I know you 'd like it , '' broke in Merry , glad of the chance to get one of the long-desired wishes of her heart fulfilled .
`` I 'll fetch you some next time I go over to Ballad 's .
Tell me what you want , and we 'll have a posy bed somewhere round , see if we do n't , '' said her father , dimly understanding what she wanted .
`` Now , if mother says I may fix my room , I shall be satisfied , and I 'll do my chores without a bit of fuss , to show how grateful I am , '' said the girl , thanking her father with a kiss , and smiling at her mother so wistfully that the good woman could not refuse .
`` You may have anything you like out of the blue chest .
There 's a lot of things there that the moths got at after Grandma died , and I could n't bear to throw or give 'em away .
Trim up your room as you like , and mind you do n't forget your part of the bargain , '' answered Mrs. Grant , seeing profit in the plan .
`` I wo n't ; I 'll work all the morning to-morrow , and in the afternoon I 'll get ready to show you what I call a nice , pretty room , '' answered Merry , looking so pleased it seemed as if another flower had blossomed in the large bare kitchen .
She kept her word , and the very stormy afternoon when Jill got into trouble , Merry was working busily at her little bower .
In the blue chest she found a variety of treasures , and ignoring the moth holes , used them to the best advantage , trying to imitate the simple comfort with a touch of elegance which prevailed in Mrs. Minot 's back bedroom .
Three faded red-moreen curtains went up at the windows over the chilly paper shades , giving a pleasant glow to the bare walls .
A red quilt with white stars , rather the worse for many washings , covered the bed , and a gay cloth the table , where a judicious arrangement of books and baskets concealed the spots .
The little air-tight stove was banished , and a pair of ancient andirons shone in the fire-light .
Grandma 's last and largest braided rug lay on the hearth , and her brass candlesticks adorned the bureau , over the mirror of which was festooned a white muslin skirt , tied up with Merry 's red sash .
This piece of elegance gave the last touch to her room , she thought , and she was very proud of it , setting forth all her small store of trinkets in a large shell , with an empty scent bottle , and a clean tidy over the pincushion .
On the walls she hung three old-fashioned pictures , which she ventured to borrow from the garret till better could be found .
One a mourning piece , with a very tall lady weeping on an urn in a grove of willows , and two small boys in knee breeches and funny little square tails to their coats , looking like cherubs in large frills .
The other was as good as a bonfire , being an eruption of Vesuvius , and very lurid indeed , for the Bay of Naples was boiling like a pot , the red sky raining rocks , and a few distracted people lying flat upon the shore .
The third was a really pretty scene of children dancing round a May-pole , for though nearly a hundred years old , the little maids smiled and the boys pranced as gayly as if the flowers they carried were still alive and sweet .
`` Now I 'll call them all to see , and say that it is pretty .
Then I 'll enjoy it , and come here when things look dismal and bare everywhere else , '' said Merry , when at last it was done .
She had worked all the afternoon , and only finished at supper time , so the candles had to be lighted that the toilette might look its best , and impress the beholders with an idea of true elegance .
Unfortunately , the fire smoked a little , and a window was set ajar to clear the room ; an evil-disposed gust blew in , wafting the thin drapery within reach of the light , and when Merry threw open the door proudly thinking to display her success , she was horrified to find the room in a blaze , and half her labor all in vain .
The conflagration was over in a minute , however , for the boys tore down the muslin and stamped out the fire with much laughter , while Mrs. Grant bewailed the damage to her carpet , and poor Merry took refuge in her father 's arms , refusing to be comforted in spite of his kind commendation of `` Grandma 's fixins . ''
The third little missionary had the hardest time of all , and her first efforts were not much more satisfactory nor successful than the others .
Her father was away from morning till night , and then had his paper to read , books to keep , or `` a man to see down town , '' so that , after a hasty word at tea , he saw no more of the children till another evening , as they were seldom up at his early breakfast .
He thought they were well taken care of , for Miss Bathsheba Dawes was an energetic , middle-aged spinster when she came into the family , and had been there fifteen years , so he did not observe , what a woman would have seen at once , that Miss Bat was getting old and careless , and everything about the house was at sixes and sevens .
She took good care of him , and thought she had done her duty if she got three comfortable meals , nursed the children when they were ill , and saw that the house did not burn up .
So Maria Louisa and Napoleon Bonaparte got on as they could , without the tender cares of a mother .
Molly had been a happy-go-lucky child , contented with her pets , her freedom , and little Boo to love ; but now she was just beginning to see that they were not like other children , and to feel ashamed of it .
`` Papa is busy , but Miss Bat ought to see to us ; she is paid for it , and goodness knows she has an easy time now , for if I ask her to do anything , she groans over her bones , and tells me young folks should wait on themselves .
I take all the care of Boo off her hands , but I ca n't wash my own things , and he has n't a decent trouser to his blessed little legs .
I 'd tell papa , but it would n't do any good ; he 'd only say , ` Yes , child , yes , I 'll attend to it , ' and never do a thing . ''
This used to be Molly 's lament , when some especially trying event occurred , and if the girls were not there to condole with her , she would retire to the shed-chamber , call her nine cats about her , and , sitting in the old bushel basket , pull her hair about her ears , and scold all alone .
The cats learned to understand this habit , and nobly did their best to dispel the gloom which now and then obscured the sunshine of their little mistress .
Some of them would creep into her lap and purr till the comfortable sound soothed her irritation ; the sedate elders sat at her feet blinking with such wise and sympathetic faces , that she felt as if half a dozen Solomons were giving her the sagest advice ; while the kittens frisked about , cutting up their drollest capers till she laughed in spite of herself .
When the laugh came , the worst of the fit was over , and she soon cheered up , dismissing the consolers with a pat all round , a feast of good things from Miss Bat 's larder , and the usual speech : -- `` Well , dears , it 's of no use to worry .
I guess we shall get along somehow , if we do n't fret . ''
With which wise resolution , Molly would leave her retreat and freshen up her spirits by a row on the river or a romp with Boo , which always finished the case .
Now , however , she was bound to try the new plan and do something toward reforming not only the boy 's condition , but the disorder and discomfort of home .
`` I 'll play it is Siam , and this the house of a native , and I 'm come to show the folks how to live nicely .
Miss Bat wo n't know what to make of it , and I ca n't tell her , so I shall get some fun out of it , any way , '' thought Molly , as she surveyed the dining-room the day her mission began .
The prospect was not cheering ; and , if the natives of Siam live in such confusion , it is high time they were attended to .
The breakfast-table still stood as it was left , with slops of coffee on the cloth ; bits of bread , egg-shells , and potato-skins lay about , and one lonely sausage was cast away in the middle of a large platter .
The furniture was dusty , stove untidy , and the carpet looked as if crumbs had been scattered to chickens who declined their breakfast .
Boo was sitting on the sofa , with his arm through a hole in the cover , hunting for some lost treasure put away there for safe keeping , like a little magpie as he was .
Molly fancied she washed and dressed him well enough ; but to-day she seemed to see more clearly , and sighed as she thought of the hard job in store for her if she gave him the thorough washing he needed , and combed out that curly mop of hair .
`` I 'll clear up first and do that by and by .
I ought to have a nice little tub and good towels , like Mrs. Minot , and I will , too , if I buy them myself , '' she said , piling up cups with an energy that threatened destruction to handles .
Miss Bat , who was trailing about the kitchen , with her head pinned up in a little plaid shawl , was so surprised by the demand for a pan of hot water and four clean towels , that she nearly dropped her snuff-box , chief comfort of her lazy soul .
`` What new whimsey now ?
Generally , the dishes stand round till I have time to pick 'em up , and you are off coasting or careering somewhere .
Well , this tidy fit wo n't last long , so I may as well make the most of it , '' said Miss Bat , as she handed out the required articles , and then pushed her spectacles from the tip of her sharp nose to her sharper black eyes for a good look at the girl who stood primly before her , with a clean apron on and her hair braided up instead of flying wildly about her shoulders .
`` Umph ! ''
was all the comment that Miss Bat made on this unusual neatness , and she went on scraping her saucepans , while Molly returned to her work , very well pleased with the effect of her first step , for she felt that the bewilderment of Miss Bat would be a constant inspiration to fresh efforts .
An hour of hard work produced an agreeable change in the abode of the native , for the table was cleared , room swept and dusted , fire brightened , and the holes in the sofa-covering were pinned up till time could be found to mend them .
To be sure , rolls of lint lay in corners , smears of ashes were on the stove hearth , and dust still lurked on chair rounds and table legs .
But too much must not be expected of a new convert , so the young missionary sat down to rest , well pleased and ready for another attempt as soon as she could decide in what direction it should be made .
She quailed before Boo as she looked at the unconscious innocent peacefully playing with the spotted dog , now bereft of his tail , and the lone sausage with which he was attempting to feed the hungry animal , whose red mouth always gaped for more .
`` It will be an awful job , and he is so happy I wo n't plague him yet .
Guess I 'll go and put my room to rights first , and pick up some clean clothes to put on him , if he is alive after I get through with him , '' thought Molly , foreseeing a stormy passage for the boy , who hated a bath as much as some people hate a trip across the Atlantic .
Up she went , and finding the fire out felt discouraged , thought she would rest a little more , so retired under the blankets to read one of the Christmas books .
The dinner-bell rang while she was still wandering happily in `` Nelly 's Silver Mine , '' and she ran down to find that Boo had laid out a railroad all across her neat room , using bits of coal for sleepers and books for rails , over which he was dragging the yellow sled laden with a dismayed kitten , the tailless dog , and the remains of the sausage , evidently on its way to the tomb , for Boo took bites at it now and then , no other lunch being offered him .
`` Oh dear !
why ca n't boys play without making such a mess , '' sighed Molly , picking up the feathers from the duster with which Boo had been trying to make a `` cocky-doo '' of the hapless dog .
`` I 'll wash him right after dinner , and that will keep him out of mischief for a while , '' she thought , as the young engineer unsuspiciously proceeded to ornament his already crocky countenance with squash , cranberry sauce , and gravy , till he looked more like a Fiji chief in full war-paint than a Christian boy .
`` I want two pails of hot water , please , Miss Bat , and the big tub , '' said Molly , as the ancient handmaid emptied her fourth cup of tea , for she dined with the family , and enjoyed her own good cooking in its prime .
`` What are you going to wash now ? ''
`` Boo -- I 'm sure he needs it enough ; '' and Molly could not help laughing as the victim added to his brilliant appearance by smearing the colors all together with a rub of two grimy hands , making a fine `` Turner '' of himself .
`` Now , Maria Louisa Bemis , you ai n't going to cut up no capers with that child !
The idea of a hot bath in the middle of the day , and him full of dinner , and croupy into the bargain !
Wet a corner of a towel at the kettle-spout and polish him off if you like , but you wo n't risk his life in no bath-tubs this cold day . ''
Miss Bat 's word was law in some things , so Molly had to submit , and took Boo away , saying , loftily , as she left the room , -- `` I shall ask father , and do it to-night , for I will not have my brother look like a pig . ''
`` My patience !
how the Siamese do leave their things round , '' she exclaimed , as she surveyed her room after making up the fire and polishing off Boo .
`` I 'll put things in order , and then mend up my rags , if I can find my thimble .
Now , let me see ; '' and she went to exploring her closet , bureau , and table , finding such disorder everywhere that her courage nearly gave out .
She had clothes enough , but all needed care ; even her best dress had two buttons off , and her Sunday hat but one string .
Shoes , skirts , books , and toys lay about , and her drawers were a perfect chaos of soiled ruffles , odd gloves , old ribbons , boot lacings , and bits of paper .
`` Oh , my heart , what a muddle !
Mrs. Minot would n't think much of me if she could see that , '' said Molly , recalling how that lady once said she could judge a good deal of a little girl 's character and habits by a peep at her top drawer , and went on , with great success , to guess how each of the school-mates kept her drawer .
`` Come , missionary , clear up , and do n't let me find such a glory-hole again , or I 'll report you to the society , '' said Molly , tipping the whole drawer-full out upon the bed , and beguiling the tiresome job by keeping up the new play .
Twilight came before it was done , and a great pile of things loomed up on her table , with no visible means of repair , -- for Molly 's work-basket was full of nuts , and her thimble down a hole in the shed-floor , where the cats had dropped it in their play .
`` I 'll ask Bat for hooks and tape , and papa for some money to buy scissors and things , for I do n't know where mine are .
Glad I ca n't do any more now !
Being neat is such hard work ! ''
and Molly threw herself down on the rug beside the old wooden cradle in which Boo was blissfully rocking , with a cargo of toys aboard .
She watched her time , and as soon as her father had done supper , she hastened to say , before he got to his desk , -- `` Please , papa , I want a dollar to get some brass buttons and things to fix Boo 's clothes with .
He wore a hole in his new trousers coasting down the Kembles ' steps .
And ca n't I wash him ?
He needs it , and Miss Bat wo n't let me have a tub . ''
`` Certainly , child , certainly ; do what you like , only do n't keep me .
I must be off , or I shall miss Jackson , and he 's the man I want ; '' and , throwing down two dollars instead of one , Mr. Bemis hurried away , with a vague impression that Boo had swallowed a dozen brass buttons , and Miss Bat had been coasting somewhere in a bath-pan ; but catching Jackson was important , so he did not stop to investigate .
Armed with the paternal permission , Molly carried her point , and oh , what a dreadful evening poor Boo spent !
First , he was decoyed upstairs an hour too soon , then put in a tub by main force and sternly scrubbed , in spite of shrieks that brought Miss Bat to the locked door to condole with the sufferer , scold the scrubber , and depart , darkly prophesying croup before morning .
`` He always howls when he is washed ; but I shall do it , since you wo n't , and he must get used to it .
I will not have people tell me he 's neglected , if I can help it , '' cried Molly , working away with tears in her eyes -- for it was as hard for her as for Boo ; but she meant to be thorough for once in her life , no matter what happened .
When the worst was over , she coaxed him with candy and stories till the long task of combing out the curls was safely done ; then , in the clean night-gown with a blue button newly sewed on , she laid him in bed , worn out , but sweet as a rose .
`` Now , say your prayers , darling , and go to sleep with the nice red blanket all tucked round so you wo n't get cold , '' said Molly , rather doubtful of the effect of the wet head .
`` No , I wo n't !
Going to sleep now !
'' and Boo shut his eyes wearily , feeling that his late trials had not left him in a prayerful mood .
`` Then you 'll be a real little heathen , as Mrs. Pecq called you , and I do n't know what I shall do with you , '' said Molly , longing to cuddle rather than scold the little fellow , whose soul needed looking after as well as his body .
`` No , no ; I wo n't be a heevin !
I do n't want to be frowed to the trockindiles .
I will say my prayers !
oh , I will ! ''
and , rising in his bed , Boo did so , with the devotion of an infant Samuel , for he remembered the talk when the society was formed .
Molly thought her labors were over for that night , and soon went to bed , tired with her first attempts .
But toward morning she was wakened by the hoarse breathing of the boy , and was forced to patter away to Miss Bat 's room , humbly asking for the squills , and confessing that the prophecy had come to pass .
`` I knew it !
Bring the child to me , and do n't fret .
I 'll see to him , and next time you do as I say , '' was the consoling welcome she received as the old lady popped up a sleepy but anxious face in a large flannel cap , and shook the bottle with the air of a general who had routed the foe before and meant to do it again .
Leaving her little responsibility in Miss Bat 's arms , Molly retired to wet her pillow with a few remorseful tears , and to fall asleep , wondering if real missionaries ever killed their pupils in the process of conversion .
So the girls all failed in the beginning ; but they did not give up , and succeeded better next time , as we shall see .
Chapter IX .
The Debating Club `` Look here , old man , we ought to have a meeting .
Holidays are over , and we must brace up and attend to business , '' said Frank to Gus , as they strolled out of the schoolyard one afternoon in January , apparently absorbed in conversation , but in reality waiting for a blue cloud and a scarlet feather to appear on the steps .
`` All right .
When , where , and what ? ''
asked Gus , who was a man of few words .
`` To-night , our house , subject , ` Shall girls go to college with us ? '
Mother said we had better be making up our minds , because every one is talking about it , and we shall have to be on one side or the other , so we may as well settle it now , '' answered Frank , for there was an impression among the members that all vexed questions would be much helped by the united eloquence and wisdom of the club .
`` Very good ; I 'll pass the word and be there .
Hullo , Neddy !
The D.C. meets to-night , at Minot 's , seven sharp .
Co-ed , & c. , '' added Gus , losing no time , as a third boy came briskly round the corner , with a little bag in his hand .
`` I 'll come .
Got home an hour earlier to-night , and thought I 'd look you up as I went by , '' responded Ed Devlin , as he took possession of the third post , with a glance toward the schoolhouse to see if a seal-skin cap , with a long , yellow braid depending therefrom , was anywhere in sight .
`` Very good of you , I 'm sure , '' said Gus , ironically , not a bit deceived by this polite attention .
`` The longest way round is sometimes the shortest way home , hey , Ed ? ''
and Frank gave him a playful poke that nearly sent him off his perch .
Then they all laughed at some joke of their own , and Gus added , `` No girls coming to hear us to-night .
Do n't think it , my son .
`` More 's the pity , '' and Ed shook his head regretfully over the downfall of his hopes .
`` Ca n't help it ; the other fellows say they spoil the fun , so we have to give in , sometimes , for the sake of peace and quietness .
Do n't mind having them a bit myself , '' said Frank , in such a tone of cheerful resignation that they laughed again , for the `` Triangle , '' as the three chums were called , always made merry music .
`` We must have a game party next week .
The girls like that , and so do I , '' candidly observed Gus , whose pleasant parlors were the scene of many such frolics .
`` And so do your sisters and your cousins and your aunts , '' hummed Ed , for Gus was often called Admiral because he really did possess three sisters , two cousins , and four aunts , besides mother and grandmother , all living in the big house together .
The boys promptly joined in the popular chorus , and other voices all about the yard took it up , for the `` Pinafore '' epidemic raged fearfully in Harmony Village that winter .
`` How 's business ? ''
asked Gus , when the song ended , for Ed had not returned to school in the autumn , but had gone into a store in the city .
`` Dull ; things will look up toward spring , they say .
I get on well enough , but I miss you fellows dreadfully ; '' and Ed put a hand on the broad shoulder of each friend , as if he longed to be a school-boy again .
`` Better give it up and go to college with me next year , '' said Frank , who was preparing for Boston University , while Gus fitted for Harvard .
`` No ; I 've chosen business , and I mean to stick to it , so do n't you unsettle my mind .
Have you practised that March ? ''
asked Ed , turning to a gayer subject , for he had his little troubles , but always looked on the bright side of things .
`` Skating is so good , I do n't get much time .
Come early , and we 'll have a turn at it . ''
`` I will .
Must run home now . ''
`` Pretty cold loafing here . ''
`` Mail is in by this time . ''
And with these artless excuses the three boys leaped off the posts , as if one spring moved them , as a group of girls came chattering down the path .
The blue cloud floated away beside Frank , the scarlet feather marched off with the Admiral , while the fur cap nodded to the gray hat as two happy faces smiled at each other .
The same thing often happened , for twice a-day the streets were full of young couples walking to and from school together , smiled at by the elders , and laughed at by the less susceptible boys and girls , who went alone or trooped along in noisy groups .
The prudent mothers had tried to stop this guileless custom , but found it very difficult , as the fathers usually sympathized with their sons , and dismissed the matter with the comfortable phrase , `` Never mind ; boys will be boys . ''
`` Not forever , '' returned the anxious mammas , seeing the tall lads daily grow more manly , and the pretty daughters fast learning to look demure when certain names were mentioned .
It could not be stopped without great parental sternness and the danger of deceit , for co-education will go on outside of school if not inside , and the safest way is to let sentiment and study go hand in hand , with teachers and parents to direct and explain the great lesson all are the better for learning soon or late .
So the elders had to give in , acknowledging that this sudden readiness to go to school was a comfort , that the new sort of gentle emulation worked wonders in lazy girls and boys , and that watching these `` primrose friendships '' bud , blossom , and die painless deaths , gave a little touch of romance to their own work-a-day lives .
`` On the whole I 'd rather have my sons walking , playing , and studying with bright , well-mannered girls , than always knocking about with rough boys , '' said Mrs. Minot at one of the Mothers ' Meetings , where the good ladies met to talk over their children , and help one another to do their duty by them .
`` I find that Gus is more gentle with his sisters since Juliet took him in hand , for he wants to stand well with her , and they report him if he troubles them .
I really see no harm in the little friendship , though I never had any such when I was a girl , '' said Mrs. Burton , who adored her one boy and was his confidante .
`` My Merry seems to be contented with her brothers so far , but I should n't wonder if I had my hands full by and by , '' added Mrs. Grant , who already foresaw that her sweet little daughter would be sought after as soon as she should lengthen her skirts and turn up her bonny brown hair .
Molly Loo had no mother to say a word for her , but she settled matters for herself by holding fast to Merry , and declaring that she would have no escort but faithful Boo .
It is necessary to dwell a moment upon this new amusement , because it was not peculiar to Harmony Village , but appears everywhere as naturally as the game parties and croquet which have taken the place of the husking frolics and apple-bees of olden times , and it is impossible to dodge the subject if one attempts to write of boys and girls as they really are nowadays .
`` Here , my hero , see how you like this .
If it suits , you will be ready to march as soon as the doctor gives the word , '' said Ralph , coming into the Bird Room that evening with a neat little crutch under his arm .
`` Ha , ha , that looks fine !
I 'd like to try it right off , but I wo n't till I get leave .
Did you make it yourself , Ral ? ''
asked Jack , handling it with delight , as he sat bolt upright , with his leg on a rest , for he was getting on capitally now .
`` Mostly .
Rather a neat job , I flatter myself . ''
`` I should say so .
What a clever fellow you are !
Any new inventions lately ? ''
asked Frank , coming up to examine and admire .
`` Only an anti-snoring machine and an elbow-pad , '' answered Ralph , with a twinkle in his eye , as if reminded of something funny .
`` Go on , and tell about them .
I never heard of an anti-snorer .
Jack better have one , '' said Frank , interested at once .
`` Well , a rich old lady kept her family awake with that lively music , so she sent to Shirtman and Codleff for something to stop it .
They thought it was a good joke , and told me to see what I could do .
I thought it over , and got up the nicest little affair you ever saw .
It went over the mouth , and had a tube to fit the ear , so when the lady snored she woke herself up and stopped it .
It suited exactly .
I think of taking out a patent , '' concluded Ralph , joining in the boys ' laugh at the droll idea .
`` What was the pad ? ''
asked Frank , returning to the small model of an engine he was making .
`` Oh , that was a mere trifle for a man who had a tender elbow-joint and wanted something to protect it .
I made a little pad to fit on , and his crazy-bone was safe . ''
`` I planned to have you make me a new leg if this one was spoilt , '' said Jack , sure that his friend could invent anything under the sun .
`` I 'd do my best for you .
I made a hand for a fellow once , and that got me my place , you know , '' answered Ralph , who thought little of such mechanical trifles , and longed to be painting portraits or modelling busts , being an artist as well as an inventor .
Here Gus , Ed , and several other boys came in , and the conversation became general .
Grif , Chick , and Brickbat were three young gentlemen whose own respectable names were usually ignored , and they cheerfully answered to these nicknames .
As the clock struck seven , Frank , who ruled the club with a rod of iron when Chairman , took his place behind the study table .
Seats stood about it , and a large , shabby book lay before Gus , who was Secretary , and kept the records with a lavish expenditure of ink , to judge by the blots .
The members took their seats , and nearly all tilted back their chairs and put their hands in their pockets , to keep them out of mischief ; for , as every one knows , it is impossible for two lads to be near each other and refrain from tickling or pinching .
Frank gave three raps with an old croquet-mallet set on a short handle , and with much dignity opened the meeting .
`` Gentlemen , the business of the club will be attended to , and then we will discuss the question , ` Shall girls go to our colleges ? '
The Secretary will now read the report of the last meeting . ''
Clearing his throat , Gus read the following brief and elegant report : -- `` Club met , December 18th , at the house of G. Burton , Esq. .
Subject : ` Is summer or winter best fun ? '
A lively pow-wow .
About evenly divided .
J. Flint fined five cents for disrespect to the Chair .
A collection of forty cents taken up to pay for breaking a pane of glass during a free fight of the members on the door-step .
E. Devlin was chosen Secretary for the coming year , and a new book contributed by the Chairman . ''
`` That 's all . ''
`` Is there any other business before the meeting ? ''
asked Frank , as the reader closed the old book with a slam and shoved the new one across the table .
Ed rose , and glancing about him with an appealing look , said , as if sure his proposition would not be well received , `` I wish to propose the name of a new member .
Bob Walker wants to join , and I think we ought to let him .
He is trying to behave well , and I am sure we could help him .
Ca n't we ? ''
All the boys looked sober , and Joe , otherwise Brickbat , said , bluntly , `` I wo n't .
He 's a bad lot , and we do n't want any such here .
Let him go with chaps of his own sort . ''
`` That is just what I want to keep him from !
He 's a good-hearted boy enough , only no one looks after him ; so he gets into scrapes , as we should , if we were in his place , I dare say .
He wants to come here , and would be so proud if he was let in , I know he 'd behave .
Come now , let 's give him a chance , '' and Ed looked at Gus and Frank , sure that if they stood by him he should carry his point .
But Gus shook his head , as if doubtful of the wisdom of the plan , and Frank said gravely : `` You know we made the rule that the number should never be over eight , and we can not break it . ''
`` You need n't .
I ca n't be here half the time , so I will resign and let Bob have my place , '' began Ed , but he was silenced by shouts of `` No , no , you sha n't ! ''
`` We wo n't let you off ! ''
`` Club would go to smash , if you back out ! ''
`` Let him have my place ; I 'm the youngest , and you wo n't miss me , '' cried Jack , bound to stand by Ed at all costs .
`` We might do that , '' said Frank , who did object to small boys , though willing to admit this particular one .
`` Better make a new rule to have ten members , and admit both Bob and Tom Grant , '' said Ralph , whereat Grif grinned and Joe scowled , for one lad liked Merry 's big brother and the other did not .
`` That 's a good idea !
Put it to vote , '' said Gus , too kind-hearted to shut the door on any one .
`` First I want to ask if all you fellows are ready to stand by Bob , out of the club as well as in , for it wo n't do much good to be kind to him here and cut him at school and in the street , '' said Ed , heartily in earnest about the matter .
`` I will ! ''
cried Jack , ready to follow where his beloved friend led , and the others nodded , unwilling to be outdone by the youngest member .
`` Good !
With all of us to lend a hand , we can do a great deal ; and I tell you , boys , it is time , if we want to keep poor Bob straight .
We all turn our backs on him , so he loafs round the tavern , and goes with fellows we do n't care to know .
But he is n't bad yet , and we can keep him up , I 'm sure , if we just try .
I hope to get him into the Lodge , and that will be half the battle , wo n't it , Frank ? ''
added Ed , sure that this suggestion would have weight with the honorable Chairman .
`` Bring him along ; I 'm with you ! ''
answered Frank , making up his mind at once , for he had joined the Temperance Lodge four years ago , and already six boys had followed his example .
`` He is learning to smoke , but we 'll make him drop it before it leads to worse .
You can help him there , Admiral , if you only will , '' added Ed , giving a grateful look at one friend , and turning to the other .
`` I 'm your man ; '' and Gus looked as if he knew what he promised , for he had given up smoking to oblige his father , and kept his word like a hero .
`` You other fellows can do a good deal by just being kind and not twitting him with old scrapes , and I 'll do anything I can for you all to pay for this ; '' and Ed sat down with a beaming smile , feeling that his cause was won .
The vote was taken , and all hands went up , for even surly Joe gave in ; so Bob and Tom were duly elected , and proved their gratitude for the honor done them by becoming worthy members of the club .
It was only boys ' play now , but the kind heart and pure instincts of one lad showed the others how to lend a helping hand to a comrade in danger , and win him away from temptation to the safer pastimes of their more guarded lives .
Well pleased with themselves -- for every genuine act or word , no matter how trifling it seems , leaves a sweet and strengthening influence behind -- the members settled down to the debate , which was never very long , and often only an excuse for fun of all sorts .
`` Ralph , Gus , and Ed are for , and Brickbat , Grif , and Chick against , I suppose ? ''
said Frank , surveying his company like a general preparing for battle .
`` No , sir !
I believe in co-everything ! ''
cried Chick , a mild youth , who loyally escorted a chosen damsel home from school every day .
A laugh greeted this bold declaration , and Chick sat down , red but firm .
`` I 'll speak for two since the Chairman ca n't , and Jack wo n't go against those who pet him most to death , '' said Joe , who , not being a favorite with the girls , considered them a nuisance and lost no opportunity of telling them so .
`` Fire away , then , since you are up ; '' commanded Frank .
`` Well , '' began Joe , feeling too late how much he had undertaken , `` I do n't know a great deal about it , and I do n't care , but I do not believe in having girls at college .
They do n't belong there , nobody wants 'em , and they 'd better be at home darning their stockings . ''
`` Yours , too , '' put in Ralph , who had heard that argument so often he was tired of it .
`` Of course ; that 's what girls are for .
I do n't mind 'em at school , but I 'd just as soon they had a room to themselves .
We should get on better . '' ''
You would if Mabel was n't in your class and always ahead of you , '' observed Ed , whose friend was a fine scholar , and he very proud of the fact .
`` Look here , if you fellows keep interrupting , I wo n't sit down for half an hour , '' said Joe , well knowing that eloquence was not his gift , but bound to have his say out .
Deep silence reigned , for that threat quelled the most impatient member , and Joe prosed on , using all the arguments he had ever heard , and paying off several old scores by sly hits of a personal nature , as older orators often do .
`` It is clear to my mind that boys would get on better without any girls fooling round .
As for their being as smart as we are , it is all nonsense , for some of 'em cry over their lessons every day , or go home with headaches , or get mad and scold all recess , because something ` is n't fair . '
No , sir ; girls ai n't meant to know much , and they ca n't .
Wise folks say so and I believe 'em .
Have n't got any sisters myself , and I do n't want any , for they do n't seem to amount to much , according to those who do have 'em . ''
Groans from Gus and Ed greeted the closing remarks of the ungallant Joe , who sat down , feeling that he had made somebody squirm .
Up jumped Grif , the delight of whose life was practical jokes , which amiable weakness made him the terror of the girls , though they had no other fault to find with the merry lad .
`` Mr. Chairman , the ground I take is this : girls have not the strength to go to college with us .
They could n't row a race , go on a lark , or take care of themselves , as we do .
They are all well enough at home , and I like them at parties , but for real fun and go I would n't give a cent for them , '' began Grif , whose views of a collegiate life were confined to the enjoyments rather than the studies of that festive period .
`` I have tried them , and they ca n't stand anything .
They scream if you tell them there is a mouse in the room , and run if they see a big dog .
I just put a cockroach in Molly 's desk one day , and when she opened it she jumped as if she was shot . ''
So did the gentlemen of the club , for at that moment half-a-dozen fire-crackers exploded under the chair Grif had left , and flew wildly about the room .
Order was with difficulty restored , the mischievous party summarily chastised and commanded to hold his tongue , under penalty of ejectment from the room if he spoke again .
Firmly grasping that red and unruly member , Grif composed himself to listen , with his nose in the air and his eyes shining like black beads .
Ed was always the peace-maker , and now , when he rose with his engaging smile , his voice fell like oil upon the troubled waters , and his bright face was full of the becoming bashfulness which afflicts youths of seventeen when touching upon such subjects of newly acquired interest as girls and their pleasant but perplexing ways .
`` It seems to me we have hardly considered the matter enough to be able to say much .
But I think that school would be awfully dry and dismal without -- ahem !
-- any young ladies to make it nice .
I would n't give a pin to go if there was only a crowd of fellows , though I like a good game as well as any man .
I pity any boy who has no sisters , '' continued Ed , warming up as he thought of his own , who loved him dearly , as well they might , for a better brother never lived .
`` Home would n't be worth having without them to look after a fellow , to keep him out of scrapes , help him with his lessons , and make things jolly for his friends .
I tell you we ca n't do without girls , and I 'm not ashamed to say that I think the more we see of them , and try to be like them in many ways , the better men we shall be by and by . ''
`` Hear !
hear ! ''
cried Frank , in his deepest tone , for he heartily agreed to that , having talked the matter over with his mother , and received much light upon things which should always be set right in young heads and hearts .
And who can do this so wisely and well as mothers , if they only will ?
Feeling that his sentiments had been approved , and he need not be ashamed of the honest color in his cheeks , Ed sat down amid the applause of his side , especially of Jack , who pounded so vigorously with his crutch that Mrs. Pecq popped in her head to see if anything was wanted .
`` No , thank you , ma'am , we were only cheering Ed , '' said Gus , now upon his legs , and rather at a loss what to say till Mrs. Pecq 's appearance suggested an idea , and he seized upon it .
`` My honored friend has spoken so well that I have little to add .
I agree with him , and if you want an example of what girls can do , why , look at Jill .
She 's young , I know , but a first-rate scholar for her age .
As for pluck , she is as brave as a boy , and almost as smart at running , rowing , and so on .
Of course , she ca n't play ball -- no girl can ; their arms are not made right to throw -- but she can catch remarkably well .
I 'll say that for her .
Now , if she and Mabel -- and -- and -- some others I could name , are so clever and strong at the beginning , I do n't see why they should n't keep up and go along with us all through .
I 'm willing , and will do what I can to help other fellows ' sisters as I 'd like to have them help mine .
And I 'll punch their heads if they do n't ; '' and Gus subsided , assured , by a burst of applause , that his manly way of stating the case met with general approval .
`` We shall be happy to hear from our senior member if he will honor us with a few remarks , '' said Frank , with a bow to Ralph .
No one ever knew whom he would choose to personate , for he never spoke in his own character .
Now he rose slowly , put one hand in his bosom , and fixing his eye sternly on Grif , who was doing something suspicious with a pin , gave them a touch of Sergeant Buzfuz , from the Pickwick trial , thinking that the debate was not likely to throw much light on the subject under discussion .
In the midst of this appeal to `` Me lud and gentlemen of the jury , '' he suddenly paused , smoothed his hair down upon his forehead , rolled up his eyes , and folding his hands , droned out Mr. Chadband 's sermon on Peace , delivered over poor Jo , and ending with the famous lines : -- `` Oh , running stream of sparkling joy , To be a glorious human boy ! ''
Then , setting his hair erect with one comprehensive sweep , he caught up his coat-skirts over his arm , and , assuming a parliamentary attitude , burst into a comical medley , composed of extracts from Jefferson Brick 's and Lafayette Kettle 's speeches , and Elijah Pogram 's Defiance , from `` Martin Chuzzlewit . ''
Gazing at Gus , who was convulsed with suppressed merriment , he thundered forth : -- `` In the name of our common country , sir , in the name of that righteous cause in which we are jined , and in the name of the star-spangled banner , I thank you for your eloquent and categorical remarks .
You , sir , are a model of a man fresh from Natur 's mould .
A true-born child of this free hemisphere ; verdant as the mountains of our land ; bright and flowin ' as our mineral Licks ; unspiled by fashion as air our boundless perearers .
Rough you may be ; so air our Barrs .
Wild you may be ; so air our Buffalers .
But , sir , you air a Child of Freedom , and your proud answer to the Tyrant is , that your bright home is in the Settin ' Sun .
And , sir , if any man denies this fact , though it be the British Lion himself , I defy him .
Let me have him here ! ''
-- smiting the table , and causing the inkstand to skip -- `` here , upon this sacred altar !
Here , upon the ancestral ashes cemented with the glorious blood poured out like water on the plains of Chickabiddy Lick .
Alone I dare that Lion , and tell him that Freedom 's hand once twisted in his mane , he rolls a corse before me , and the Eagles of the Great Republic scream , Ha , ha ! ''
By this time the boys were rolling about in fits of laughter ; even sober Frank was red and breathless , and Jack lay back , feebly squealing , as he could laugh no more .
In a moment Ralph was as meek as a Quaker , and sat looking about him with a mildly astonished air , as if inquiring the cause of such unseemly mirth .
A knock at the door produced a lull , and in came a maid with apples .
`` Time 's up ; fall to and make yourselves comfortable , '' was the summary way in which the club was released from its sterner duties and permitted to unbend its mighty mind for a social half-hour , chiefly devoted to whist , with an Indian war-dance as a closing ceremony .
Chapter X .
The Dramatic Club While Jack was hopping gayly about on his crutches , poor Jill was feeling the effects of her second fall , and instead of sitting up , as she hoped to do after six weeks of rest , she was ordered to lie on a board for two hours each day .
Not an easy penance , by any means , for the board was very hard , and she could do nothing while she lay there , as it did not slope enough to permit her to read without great fatigue of both eyes and hands .
So the little martyr spent her first hour of trial in sobbing , the second in singing , for just as her mother and Mrs. Minot were deciding in despair that neither she nor they could bear it , Jill suddenly broke out into a merry chorus she used to hear her father sing : -- `` Faut jouer le mirliton , Faut jouer le mirlitir , Faut jouer le mirliter , Mir -- li -- ton . ''
The sound of the brave little voice was very comforting to the two mothers hovering about her , and Jack said , with a look of mingled pity and admiration , as he brandished his crutch over the imaginary foes , -- `` That 's right !
Sing away , and we 'll play you are an Indian captive being tormented by your enemies , and too proud to complain .
I 'll watch the clock , and the minute time is up I 'll rush in and rescue you . ''
Jill laughed , but the fancy pleased her , and she straightened herself out under the gay afghan , while she sang , in a plaintive voice , another little French song her father taught her : -- `` J'avais une colombe blanche , J'avais un blanc petit pigeon , Tous deux volaient , de branche en branche , Jusqu'au fate de mon dongeon : Mais comme un coup de vent d'automne , S'est abattu l , l'pervier , Et ma colombe si mignonne Ne revient plus au colombier . ''
`` My poor Jean had a fine voice , and always hoped the child would take after him .
It would break his heart to see her lying there trying to cheer her pain with the songs he used to sing her to sleep with , '' said Mrs. Pecq , sadly .
`` She really has a great deal of talent , and when she is able she shall have some lessons , for music is a comfort and a pleasure , sick or well , '' answered Mrs. Minot , who had often admired the fresh voice , with its pretty accent .
Here Jill began the Canadian boat-song , with great vigor , as if bound to play her part of Indian victim with spirit , and not disgrace herself by any more crying .
All knew the air , and joined in , especially Jack , who came out strong on the `` Row , brothers , row , '' but ended in a squeak on a high note , so drolly , that the rest broke down .
So the hour that began with tears ended with music and laughter , and a new pleasure to think of for the future .
After that day Jill exerted all her fortitude , for she liked to have the boys call her brave and admire the cheerful way in which she endured two hours of discomfort .
She found she could use her zither as it lay upon her breast , and every day the pretty music began at a certain hour , and all in the house soon learned to love and listen for it .
Even the old cook set open her kitchen door , saying pitifully , `` Poor darlint , hear how purty she 's singin ' , wid the pain , on that crewel boord .
It 's a little saint , she is .
May her bed above be aisy ! ''
Frank would lift her gently on and off , with a kind word that comforted her immensely , and gentle Ed would come and teach her new bits of music , while the other fellows were frolicking below .
Ralph added his share to her amusement , for he asked leave to model her head in clay , and set up his work in a corner , coming to pat , scrape , and mould whenever he had a spare minute , amusing her by his lively chat , and showing her how to shape birds , rabbits , and queer faces in the soft clay , when the songs were all sung and her fingers tired of the zither .
The girls sympathized very heartily with her new trial , and brought all manner of gifts to cheer her captivity .
Merry and Molly made a gay screen by pasting pictures on the black cambric which covered the folding frame that stood before her to keep the draughts from her as she lay on her board .
Bright birds and flowers , figures and animals , covered one side , and on the other they put mottoes , bits of poetry , anecdotes , and short stories , so that Jill could lie and look or read without the trouble of holding a book .
It was not all done at once , but grew slowly , and was a source of instruction as well as amusement to them all , as they read carefully , that they might make good selections .
But the thing that pleased Jill most was something Jack did , for he gave up going to school , and stayed at home nearly a fortnight after he might have gone , all for her sake .
The day the doctor said he might try it if he would be very careful , he was in great spirits , and limped about , looking up his books , and planning how he would astonish his mates by the rapidity of his recovery .
When he sat down to rest he remembered Jill , who had been lying quietly behind the screen , while he talked with his mother , busy putting fresh covers on the books .
`` She is so still , I guess she is asleep , '' thought Jack , peeping round the corner .
No , not asleep , but lying with her eyes fixed on the sunny window , beyond which the bright winter world sparkled after a fresh snow-fall .
The jingle of sleigh-bells could be heard , the laughter of boys and girls on their way to school , all the pleasant stir of a new day of happy work and play for the rest of the world , more lonely , quiet , and wearisome than ever to her since her friend and fellow-prisoner was set free and going to leave her .
Jack understood that patient , wistful look , and , without a word , went back to his seat , staring at the fire so soberly , that his mother presently asked : `` What are you thinking of so busily , with that pucker in your forehead ? ''
`` I 've about made up my mind that I wo n't go to school just yet , '' answered Jack , slowly lifting his head , for it cost him something to give up the long-expected pleasure .
`` Why not ? ''
and Mrs. Minot looked much surprised , till Jack pointed to the screen , and , making a sad face to express Jill 's anguish , answered in a cheerful tone , `` Well , I 'm not sure that it is best .
Doctor did not want me to go , but said I might because I teased .
I shall be sure to come to grief , and then every one will say , ' I told you so , ' and that is so provoking .
I 'd rather keep still a week longer .
Had n't I better ? ''
His mother smiled and nodded as she said , sewing away at much-abused old Caesar , as if she loved him , `` Do as you think best , dear .
I always want you at home , but I do n't wonder you are rather tired of it after this long confinement . ''
`` I say , Jill , should I be in your way if I did n't go to school till the first of February ? ''
called Jack , laughing to himself at the absurdity of the question .
`` Not much ! ''
answered a glad voice from behind the screen , and he knew the sorrowful eyes were shining with delight , though he could not see them .
`` Well , I guess I may as well , and get quite firm on my legs before I start .
Another week or so will bring me up if I study hard , so I shall not lose my time .
I 'll tackle my Latin as soon as it 's ready , mother . ''
Jack got a hearty kiss with the neatly covered book , and Mamma loved him for the little sacrifice more than if he had won a prize at school .
He did get a reward , for , in five minutes from the time he decided , Jill was singing like a bobolink , and such a medley of merry music came from behind the screen , that it was a regular morning concert .
She did not know then that he stayed for her sake , but she found it out soon after , and when the time came did as much for him , as we shall see .
It proved a wise decision , for the last part of January was so stormy Jack could not have gone half the time .
So , while the snow drifted , and bitter winds raged , he sat snugly at home amusing Jill , and getting on bravely with his lessons , for Frank took great pains with him to show his approbation of the little kindness , and , somehow , the memory of it seemed to make even the detested Latin easier .
With February fair weather set in , and Jack marched happily away to school , with Jill 's new mittens on his hands , Mamma nodding from the door-step , and Frank ready to give him a lift on the new sled , if the way proved too long or too rough .
`` I shall not have time to miss him now , for we are to be very busy getting ready for the Twenty-second .
The Dramatic Club meets to-night , and would like to come here , if they may , so I can help ? ''
said Jill , as Mrs. Minot came up , expecting to find her rather low in her mind .
`` Certainly ; and I have a basket of old finery I looked up for the club when I was rummaging out bits of silk for your blue quilt , '' answered the good lady , who had set up a new employment to beguile the hours of Jack 's absence .
When the girls arrived , that evening , they found Mrs. Chairwoman surrounded by a strew of theatrical properties , enjoying herself very much .
All brought such contributions as they could muster , and all were eager about a certain tableau which was to be the gem of the whole , they thought .
Jill , of course , was not expected to take any part , but her taste was good , so all consulted her as they showed their old silks , laces , and flowers , asking who should be this , and who that .
All wanted to be the `` Sleeping Beauty , '' for that was the chosen scene , with the slumbering court about the princess , and the prince in the act of awakening her .
Jack was to be the hero , brave in his mother 's velvet cape , red boots , and a real sword , while the other boys were to have parts of more or less splendor .
`` Mabel should be the Beauty , because her hair is so lovely , '' said Juliet , who was quite satisfied with her own part of the Queen .
`` No , Merry ought to have it , as she is the prettiest , and has that splendid veil to wear , '' answered Molly , who was to be the maid of honor , cuffing the little page , Boo .
`` I do n't care a bit , but my feather would be fine for the Princess , and I do n't know as Emma would like to have me lend it to any one else , '' said Annette , waving a long white plume over her head , with girlish delight in its grace .
`` I should think the white silk dress , the veil , and the feather ought to go together , with the scarlet crape shawl and these pearls .
That would be sweet , and just what princesses really wear , '' advised Jill , who was stringing a quantity of old Roman pearls .
`` We all want to wear the nice things , so let us draw lots .
Would n't that be the fairest way ? ''
asked Merry , looking like a rosy little bride , under a great piece of illusion , which had done duty in many plays .
`` The Prince is light , so the Princess must be darkish .
We ought to choose the girl who will look best , as it is a picture .
I heard Miss Delano say so , when the ladies got up the tableaux , last winter , and every one wanted to be Cleopatra , '' said Jill decidedly .
`` You choose , and then if we ca n't agree we will draw lots , '' proposed Susy , who , being plain , knew there was little hope of her getting a chance in any other way .
So all stood in a row , and Jill , from her sofa , surveyed them critically , feeling that the one Jack would really prefer was not among the number .
`` I choose that one , for Juliet wants to be Queen , Molly would make faces , and the others are too big or too light , '' pronounced Jill , pointing to Merry , who looked pleased , while Mabel 's face darkened , and Susy gave a disdainful sniff .
`` You 'd better draw lots , and then there will be no fuss .
Ju and I are out of the fight , but you three can try , and let this settle the matter , '' said Molly , handing Jill a long strip of paper .
All agreed to let it be so , and when the bits were ready drew in turn .
This time fate was evidently on Merry 's side , and no one grumbled when she showed the longest paper .
`` Go and dress , then come back , and we 'll plan how we are to be placed before we call up the boys , '' commanded Jill , who was manager , since she could be nothing else .
The girls retired to the bedroom and began to `` rig up , '' as they called it ; but discontent still lurked among them , and showed itself in sharp words , envious looks , and disobliging acts .
`` Am I to have the white silk and the feather ? ''
asked Merry , delighted with the silvery shimmer of the one and the graceful droop of the other , though both were rather shabby .
`` You can use your own dress .
I do n't see why you should have everything , '' answered Susy , who was at the mirror , putting a wreath of scarlet flowers on her red head , bound to be gay since she could not be pretty .
`` I think I 'd better keep the plume , as I have n't anything else that is nice , and I 'm afraid Emma would n't like me to lend it , '' added Annette , who was disappointed that Mabel was not to be the Beauty . ''
I do n't intend to act at all ! ''
declared Mabel , beginning to braid up her hair with a jerk , out of humor with the whole affair . ''
I think you are a set of cross , selfish girls to back out and keep your nice things just because you ca n't all have the best part .
I 'm ashamed of you ! ''
scolded Molly , standing by Merry , who was sadly surveying her mother 's old purple silk , which looked like brown in the evening .
`` I 'm going to have Miss Delano 's red brocade for the Queen , and I shall ask her for the yellow-satin dress for Merry when I go to get mine , and tell her how mean you are , '' said Juliet , frowning under her gilt-paper crown as she swept about in a red table-cloth for train till the brocade arrived .
`` Perhaps you 'd like to have Mabel cut her hair off , so Merry can have that , too ? ''
cried Susy , with whom hair was a tender point .
`` Light hair is n't wanted , so Ju will have to give hers , or you 'd better borrow Miss Bat 's frisette , '' added Mabel , with a scornful laugh .
`` I just wish Miss Bat was here to give you girls a good shaking .
Do let someone else have a chance at the glass , you peacock ! ''
exclaimed Molly Loo , pushing Susy aside to arrange her own blue turban , out of which she plucked the pink pompon to give Merry .
`` Do n't quarrel about me .
I shall do well enough , and the scarlet shawl will hide my ugly dress , '' said Merry , from the corner , where she sat waiting for her turn at the mirror .
As she spoke of the shawl her eye went in search of it , and something that she saw in the other room put her own disappointment out of her head .
Jill lay there all alone , rather tired with the lively chatter , and the effort it cost her not to repine at being shut out from the great delight of dressing up and acting .
Her eyes were closed , her net was off , and all the pretty black curls lay about her shoulders as one hand idly pulled them out , while the other rested on the red shawl , as if she loved its glowing color and soft texture .
She was humming to herself the little song of the dove and the donjon , and something in the plaintive voice , the solitary figure , went straight to Merry 's gentle heart .
`` Poor Jilly ca n't have any of the fun , '' was the first thought ; then came a second , that made Merry start and smile , and in a minute whisper so that all but Jill could hear her , `` Girls , I 'm not going to be the Princess .
But I 've thought of a splendid one ! ''
`` Who ? ''
asked the rest , staring at one another , much surprised by this sudden announcement .
`` Hush !
Speak low , or you will spoil it all .
Look in the Bird Room , and tell me if that is n't a prettier Princess than I could make ? ''
They all looked , but no one spoke , and Merry added , with sweet eagerness , `` It is the only thing poor Jill can be , and it would make her so happy ; Jack would like it , and it would please every one , I know .
Perhaps she will never walk again , so we ought to be very good to her , poor dear . ''
The last words , whispered with a little quiver in the voice , settled the matter better than hours of talking , for girls are tender-hearted creatures , and not one of these but would have gladly given all the pretty things she owned to see Jill dancing about well and strong again .
Like a ray of sunshine the kind thought touched and brightened every face ; envy , impatience , vanity , and discontent flew away like imps at the coming of the good fairy , and with one accord they all cried , -- `` It will be lovely ; let us go and tell her ! ''
Forgetting their own adornment , out they trooped after Merry , who ran to the sofa , saying , with a smile which was reflected in all the other faces , `` Jill , dear , we have chosen another Princess , and I know you 'll like her . ''
`` Who is it ? ''
asked Jill , languidly , opening her eyes without the least suspicion of the truth .
`` I 'll show you ; '' and taking the cherished veil from her own head , Merry dropped it like a soft cloud over Jill ; Annette added the long plume , Susy laid the white silk dress about her , while Juliet and Mabel lifted the scarlet shawl to spread it over the foot of the sofa , and Molly tore the last ornament from her turban , a silver star , to shine on Jill 's breast .
Then they all took hands and danced round the couch , singing , as they laughed at her astonishment , `` There she is !
There she is !
Princess Jill as fine as you please !
`` Do you really mean it ?
But can I ?
Is it fair ?
How sweet of you !
Come here and let me hug you all ! ''
cried Jill , in a rapture at the surprise , and the pretty way in which it was done .
The grand scene on the Twenty-second was very fine , indeed ; but the little tableau of that minute was infinitely better , though no one saw it , as Jill tried to gather them all in her arms , for that nosegay of girlish faces was the sweeter , because each one had sacrificed her own little vanity to please a friend , and her joy was reflected in the eyes that sparkled round the happy Princess .
`` Oh , you dear , kind things , to think of me and give me all your best clothes !
I never shall forget it , and I 'll do anything for you .
Yes !
I 'll write and ask Mrs. Piper to lend us her ermine cloak for the king .
See if I do n't ! ''
Shrieks of delight hailed this noble offer , for no one had dared to borrow the much-coveted mantle , but all agreed that the old lady would not refuse Jill .
It was astonishing how smoothly everything went after this , for each was eager to help , admire , and suggest , in the friendliest way ; and when all were dressed , the boys found a party of very gay ladies waiting for them round the couch , where lay the brightest little Princess ever seen .
`` Oh , Jack , I 'm to act !
Was n't it dear of the girls to choose me ?
Do n't they look lovely ?
Are n't you glad ? ''
cried Jill , as the lads stared and the lasses blushed and smiled , well pleased at the frank admiration the boyish faces showed .
`` I guess I am !
You are a set of trumps , and we 'll give you a first-class spread after the play to pay for it .
Wo n't we , fellows ? ''
answered Jack , much gratified , and feeling that now he could act his own part capitally .
`` We will .
It was a handsome thing to do , and we think well of you for it .
Hey , Gus ? ''
and Frank nodded approvingly at all , though he looked only at Annette .
`` As king of this crowd , I call it to order , '' said Gus , retiring to the throne , where Juliet sat laughing in her red table-cloth .
`` We 'll have ` The Fair One with Golden Locks ' next time ; I promise you that , '' whispered Ed to Mabel , whose shining hair streamed over her blue dress like a mantle of gold-colored silk .
`` Girls are pretty nice things , are n't they ?
Kind of 'em to take Jill in .
Do n't Molly look fine , though ? ''
and Grif 's black eyes twinkled as he planned to pin her skirts to Merry 's at the first opportunity .
`` Susy looks as gay as a feather-duster .
I like her .
She never snubs a fellow , '' said Joe , much impressed with the splendor of the court ladies .
The boys ' costumes were not yet ready , but they posed well , and all had a merry time , ending with a game of blind-man 's - buff , in which every one caught the right person in the most singular way , and all agreed as they went home in the moonlight that it had been an unusually jolly meeting .
So the fairy play woke the sleeping beauty that lies in all of us , and makes us lovely when we rouse it with a kiss of unselfish good-will , for , though the girls did not know it then , they had adorned themselves with pearls more precious than the waxen ones they decked their Princess in .
Chapter XI .
`` Down Brakes '' The greatest people have their weak points , and the best-behaved boys now and then yield to temptation and get into trouble , as everybody knows .
Frank was considered a remarkably well-bred and proper lad , and rather prided himself on his good reputation , for he never got into scrapes like the other fellows .
Well , hardly ever , for we must confess that at rare intervals his besetting sin overcame his prudence , and he proved himself an erring , human boy .
Steam-engines had been his idols for years , and they alone could lure him from the path of virtue .
Once , in trying to investigate the mechanism of a toy specimen , which had its little boiler and ran about whistling and puffing in the most delightful way , he nearly set the house afire by the sparks that dropped on the straw carpet .
Another time , in trying experiments with the kitchen tea-kettle , he blew himself up , and the scars of that explosion he still carried on his hands .
He was long past such childish amusements now , but his favorite haunt was the engine-house of the new railroad , where he observed the habits of his pets with never-failing interest , and cultivated the good-will of stokers and brakemen till they allowed him many liberties , and were rather flattered by the admiration expressed for their iron horses by a young gentleman who liked them better even than his Greek and Latin .
There was not much business doing on this road as yet , and the two cars of the passenger-trains were often nearly empty , though full freight-trains rolled from the factory to the main road , of which this was only a branch .
So things went on in a leisurely manner , which gave Frank many opportunities of pursuing his favorite pastime .
He soon knew all about No. 11 , his pet engine , and had several rides on it with Bill , the engineer , so that he felt at home there , and privately resolved that when he was a rich man he would have a road of his own , and run trains as often as he liked .
Gus took less interest than his friend in the study of steam , but usually accompanied him when he went over after school to disport himself in the engine-house , interview the stoker , or see if there was anything new in the way of brakes .
One afternoon they found No. 11 on the side-track , puffing away as if enjoying a quiet smoke before starting .
No cars were attached , and no driver was to be seen , for Bill was off with the other men behind the station-house , helping the expressman , whose horse had backed down a bank and upset the wagon .
`` Good chance for a look at the old lady , '' said Frank , speaking of the engine as Bill did , and jumping aboard with great satisfaction , followed by Gus .
`` I 'd give ten dollars if I could run her up to the bend and back , '' he added , fondly touching the bright brass knobs and glancing at the fire with a critical eye .
`` You could n't do it alone , '' answered Gus , sitting down on the grimy little perch , willing to indulge his mate 's amiable weakness .
`` Give me leave to try ?
Steam is up , and I could do it as easy as not ; '' and Frank put his hand on the throttle-valve , as if daring Gus to give the word .
`` Fire up and make her hum ! ''
laughed Gus , quoting Bill 's frequent order to his mate , but with no idea of being obeyed .
`` All right ; I 'll just roll her up to the switch and back again .
I 've often done it with Bill ; '' and Frank cautiously opened the throttle-valve , threw back the lever , and the great thing moved with a throb and a puff .
`` Steady , old fellow , or you 'll come to grief .
Here , do n't open that ! ''
shouted Gus , for just at that moment Joe appeared at the switch , looking ready for mischief .
`` Wish he would ; no train for twenty minutes , and we could run up to the bend as well as not , '' said Frank , getting excited with the sense of power , as the monster obeyed his hand so entirely that it was impossible to resist prolonging the delight .
`` By George , he has !
Stop her !
Back her !
Hold on , Frank ! ''
cried Gus , as Joe , only catching the words `` Open that ! ''
obeyed , without the least idea that they would dare to leave the siding .
But they did , for Frank rather lost his head for a minute , and out upon the main track rolled No. 11 as quietly as a well-trained horse taking a familiar road .
`` Now you 've done it !
I 'll give you a good thrashing when I get back ! ''
roared Gus , shaking his fist at Joe , who stood staring , half-pleased , half-scared , at what he had done .
`` Are you really going to try it ? ''
asked Gus , as they glided on with increasing speed , and he , too , felt the charm of such a novel adventure , though the consequences bid fair to be serious .
`` Yes , I am , '' answered Frank , with the grim look he always wore when his strong will got the upper hand .
`` Bill will give it to us , any way , so we may as well have our fun out .
If you are afraid , I 'll slow down and you can jump off , '' and his brown eyes sparkled with the double delight of getting his heart 's desire and astonishing his friend at the same time by his skill and coolness .
`` Go ahead .
I 'll jump when you do ; '' and Gus calmly sat down again , bound in honor to stand by his mate till the smash came , though rather dismayed at the audacity of the prank .
`` Do n't you call this just splendid ? ''
exclaimed Frank , as they rolled along over the crossing , past the bridge , toward the curve , a mile from the station .
`` Not bad .
They are yelling like mad after us .
Better go back , if you can , '' said Gus , who was anxiously peering out , and , in spite of his efforts to seem at ease , not enjoying the trip a particle .
`` Let them yell .
I started to go to the curve , and I 'll do it if it costs me a hundred dollars .
No danger ; there 's no train under twenty minutes , I tell you , '' and Frank pulled out his watch .
But the sun was in his eyes , and he did not see clearly , or he would have discovered that it was later than he thought .
On they went , and were just rounding the bend when a shrill whistle in front startled both boys , and drove the color out of their cheeks .
`` It 's the factory train ! ''
cried Gus , in a husky tone , as he sprang to his feet .
`` No ; it 's the five-forty on the other road , '' answered Frank , with a queer thrill all through him at the thought of what might happen if it was not .
Both looked straight ahead as the last tree glided by , and the long track lay before them , with the freight train slowly coming down .
For an instant , the boys stood as if paralyzed .
`` Jump ! ''
said Gus , looking at the steep bank on one side and the river on the other , undecided which to try .
`` Sit still ! ''
commanded Frank , collecting his wits , as he gave a warning whistle to retard the on-coming train , while he reversed the engine and went back faster than he came .
A crowd of angry men was waiting for them , and Bill stood at the open switch in a towering passion as No. 11 returned to her place unharmed , but bearing two pale and frightened boys , who stepped slowly and silently down , without a word to say for themselves , while the freight train rumbled by on the main track .
Frank and Gus never had a very clear idea as to what occurred during the next few minutes , but vaguely remembered being well shaken , sworn at , questioned , threatened with direful penalties , and finally ordered off the premises forever by the wrathful depot-master .
Joe was nowhere to be seen , and as the two culprits walked away , trying to go steadily , while their heads spun round , and all the strength seemed to have departed from their legs , Frank said , in an exhausted tone , -- `` Come down to the boat-house and rest a minute . ''
Both were glad to get out of sight , and dropped upon the steps red , rumpled , and breathless , after the late exciting scene .
Gus generously forebore to speak , though he felt that he was the least to blame ; and Frank , after eating a bit of snow to moisten his dry lips , said , handsomely , -- `` Now , do n't you worry , old man .
I 'll pay the damages , for it was my fault .
Joe will dodge , but I wo n't , so make your mind easy .
`` We sha 'n' t hear the last of this in a hurry , '' responded Gus , relieved , yet anxious , as he thought of the reprimand his father would give him .
`` I hope mother wo n't hear of it till I tell her quietly myself .
She will be so frightened , and think I 'm surely smashed up , if she is told in a hurry ; '' and Frank gave a shiver , as all the danger he had run came over him suddenly .
`` I thought we were done for when we saw that train .
Guess we should have been if you had not had your wits about you .
I always said you were a cool one ; '' and Gus patted Frank 's back with a look of great admiration , for , now that it was all over , he considered it a very remarkable performance .
`` Which do you suppose it will be , fine or imprisonment ? ''
asked Frank , after sitting in a despondent attitude for a moment .
`` Should n't wonder if it was both .
Running off with an engine is no joke , you know . ''
`` What did possess me to be such a fool ? ''
groaned Frank , repenting , all too late , of yielding to the temptation which assailed him .
`` Bear up , old fellow , I 'll stand by you ; and if the worst comes , I 'll call as often as the rules of the prison allow , '' said Gus , consolingly , as he gave his afflicted friend an arm , and they walked away , both feeling that they were marked men from that day forth .
Meantime , Joe , as soon as he recovered from the shock of seeing the boys actually go off , ran away , as fast as his legs could carry him , to prepare Mrs. Minot for the loss of her son ; for the idea of their coming safely back never occurred to him , his knowledge of engines being limited .
A loud ring at the bell brought Mrs. Pecq , who was guarding the house , while Mrs. Minot entertained a parlor full of company .
`` Frank 's run off with No. 11 , and he 'll be killed sure .
Thought I 'd come up and tell you , '' stammered Joe , all out of breath and looking wild .
He got no further , for Mrs. Pecq clapped one hand over his mouth , caught him by the collar with the other , and hustled him into the ante-room before any one else could hear the bad news .
`` Tell me all about it , and do n't shout .
What 's come to the boy ? ''
she demanded , in a tone that reduced Joe to a whisper at once .
`` Go right back and see what has happened to him , then come and tell me quietly .
I 'll wait for you here .
I would n't have his mother startled for the world , '' said the good soul , when she knew all .
`` Oh , I dar ` s n't !
I opened the switch as they told me to , and Bill will half kill me when he knows it ! ''
cried Joe , in a panic , as the awful consequences of his deed rose before him , showing both boys mortally injured and several trains wrecked .
`` Then take yourself off home and hold your tongue .
I 'll watch the door , for I wo n't have any more ridiculous boys tearing in to disturb my lady . ''
Mrs. Pecq often called this good neighbor `` my lady '' when speaking of her , for Mrs. Minot was a true gentlewoman , and much pleasanter to live with than the titled mistress had been .
Joe scudded away as if the constable was after him , and presently Frank was seen slowly approaching with an unusually sober face and a pair of very dirty hands .
`` Thank heaven , he 's safe ! ''
and , softly opening the door , Mrs. Pecq actually hustled the young master into the ante-room as unceremoniously as she had hustled Joe .
`` I beg pardon , but the parlor is full of company , and that fool of a Joe came roaring in with a cock-and-bull story that gave me quite a turn .
What is it , Mr. Frank ? ''
she asked eagerly , seeing that something was amiss .
He told her in a few words , and she was much relieved to find that no harm had been done .
`` Ah , the danger is to come , '' said Frank , darkly , as he went away to wash his hands and prepare to relate his misdeeds .
It was a very bad quarter of an hour for the poor fellow , who so seldom had any grave faults to confess ; but he did it manfully , and his mother was so grateful for the safety of her boy that she found it difficult to be severe enough , and contented herself with forbidding any more visits to the too charming No. 11 .
`` What do you suppose will be done to me ? ''
asked Frank , on whom the idea of imprisonment had made a deep impression .
`` I do n't know , dear , but I shall go over to see Mr. Burton right after tea .
He will tell us what to do and what to expect .
Gus must not suffer for your fault . ''
`` He 'll come off clear enough , but Joe must take his share , for if he had n't opened that confounded switch , no harm would have been done .
But when I saw the way clear , I actually could n't resist going ahead , '' said Frank , getting excited again at the memory of that blissful moment when he started the engine .
Here Jack came hurrying in , having heard the news , and refused to believe it from any lips but Frank 's .
When he could no longer doubt , he was so much impressed with the daring of the deed that he had nothing but admiration for his brother , till a sudden thought made him clap his hands and exclaim exultingly , -- `` His runaway beats mine all hollow , and now he ca n't crow over me !
Wo n't that be a comfort ?
The good boy has got into a scrape .
Hooray ! ''
This was such a droll way of taking it , that they had to laugh ; and Frank took his humiliation so meekly that Jack soon fell to comforting him , instead of crowing over him .
Jill thought it a most interesting event ; and , when Frank and his mother went over to consult Mr. Burton , she and Jack planned out for the dear culprit a dramatic trial which would have convulsed the soberest of judges .
His sentence was ten years ' imprisonment , and such heavy fines that the family would have been reduced to beggary but for the sums made by Jill 's fancy work and Jack 's success as a champion pedestrian .
They found such comfort and amusement in this sensational programme that they were rather disappointed when Frank returned , reporting that a fine would probably be all the penalty exacted , as no harm had been done , and he and Gus were such respectable boys .
What would happen to Joe , he could not tell , but he thought a good whipping ought to be added to his share .
Of course , the affair made a stir in the little world of children ; and when Frank went to school , feeling that his character for good behavior was forever damaged , he found himself a lion , and was in danger of being spoiled by the admiration of his comrades , who pointed him out with pride as `` the fellow who ran off with a steam-engine . ''
But an interview with Judge Kemble , a fine of twenty-five dollars , and lectures from all the grown people of his acquaintance , prevented him from regarding his escapade as a feat to boast of .
He discovered , also , how fickle a thing is public favor , for very soon those who had praised began to tease , and it took all his courage , patience , and pride to carry him through the next week or two .
The lads were never tired of alluding to No. 11 , giving shrill whistles in his ear , asking if his watch was right , and drawing locomotives on the blackboard whenever they got a chance .
The girls , too , had sly nods and smiles , hints and jokes of a milder sort , which made him color and fume , and once lose his dignity entirely .
Molly Loo , who dearly loved to torment the big boys , and dared attack even solemn Frank , left one of Boo 's old tin trains on the door-step , directed to `` Conductor Minot , '' who , I regret to say , could not refrain from kicking it into the street , and slamming the door with a bang that shook the house .
Shrieks of laughter from wicked Molly and her coadjutor , Grif , greeted this explosion of wrath , which did no good , however , for half an hour later the same cars , all in a heap , were on the steps again , with two headless dolls tumbling out of the cab , and the dilapidated engine labelled , `` No. 11 after the collision . ''
No one ever saw that ruin again , and for days Frank was utterly unconscious of Molly 's existence , as propriety forbade his having it out with her as he had with Grif .
Then Annette made peace between them , and the approach of the Twenty-second gave the wags something else to think of .
But it was long before Frank forgot that costly prank ; for he was a thoughtful boy , who honestly wanted to be good ; so he remembered this episode humbly , and whenever he felt the approach of temptation he made the strong will master it , saying to himself `` Down brakes ! ''
thus saving the precious freight he carried from many of the accidents which befall us when we try to run our trains without orders , and so often wreck ourselves as well as others .
Chapter XII .
The Twenty-Second of February Of course , the young ladies and gentlemen had a ball on the evening of that day , but the boys and girls were full of excitement about their `` Scenes from the Life of Washington and other brilliant tableaux , '' as the programme announced .
The Bird Room was the theatre , being very large , with four doors conveniently placed .
Ralph was in his element , putting up a little stage , drilling boys , arranging groups , and uniting in himself carpenter , scene-painter , manager , and gas man .
Mrs. Minot permitted the house to be turned topsy-turvy , and Mrs. Pecq flew about , lending a hand everywhere .
Jill was costumer , with help from Miss Delano , who did not care for balls , and kindly took charge of the girls .
Jack printed tickets , programmes , and placards of the most imposing sort , and the work went gayly on till all was ready .
When the evening came , the Bird Room presented a fine appearance .
One end was curtained off with red drapery ; and real footlights , with tin shades , gave a truly theatrical air to the little stage .
Rows of chairs , filled with mammas and little people , occupied the rest of the space .
The hall and Frank 's room were full of amused papas , uncles , and old gentlemen whose patriotism brought them out in spite of rheumatism .
There was a great rustling of skirts , fluttering of fans , and much lively chat , till a bell rang and the orchestra struck up .
Yes , there really was an orchestra , for Ed declared that the national airs must be played , or the whole thing would be a failure .
So he had exerted himself to collect all the musical talent he could find , a horn , a fiddle , and a flute , with drum and fife for the martial scenes .
Ed looked more beaming than ever , as he waved his baton and led off with Yankee Doodle as a safe beginning , for every one knew that .
It was fun to see little Johnny Cooper bang away on a big drum , and old Mr. Munson , who had been a fifer all his days , blow till he was as red as a lobster , while every one kept time to the music which put them all in good spirits for the opening scene .
Up went the curtain and several trees in tubs appeared , then a stately gentleman in small clothes , cocked hat , gray wig , and an imposing cane , came slowly walking in .
It was Gus , who had been unanimously chosen not only for Washington but for the father of the hero also , that the family traits of long legs and a somewhat massive nose might be preserved .
`` Ahem !
My trees are doing finely , '' observed Mr. W. , senior , strolling along with his hands behind him , casting satisfied glances at the dwarf orange , oleander , abutilon , and little pine that represented his orchard .
Suddenly he starts , pauses , frowns , and , after examining the latter shrub , which displayed several hacks in its stem and a broken limb with six red-velvet cherries hanging on it , he gave a thump with his cane that made the little ones jump , and cried out , -- `` Can it have been my son ? ''
He evidently thought it was , for he called , in tones of thunder , -- `` George !
George Washington , come hither this moment ! ''
Great suspense on the part of the audience , then a general burst of laughter as Boo trotted in , a perfect miniature of his honored parent , knee breeches , cocked hat , shoe buckles and all .
He was so fat that the little tails of his coat stuck out in the drollest way , his chubby legs could hardly carry the big buckles , and the rosy face displayed , when he took his hat off with a dutiful bow , was so solemn , the real George could not have looked more anxious when he gave the immortal answer .
`` Sirrah , did you cut that tree ? ''
demanded the papa , with another rap of the cane , and such a frown that poor Boo looked dismayed , till Molly whispered , `` Put your hand up , dear . ''
Then he remembered his part , and , putting one finger in his mouth , looked down at his square-toed shoes , the image of a shame-stricken boy .
`` My son , do not deceive me .
If you have done this deed I shall chastise you , for it is my duty not to spare the rod , lest I spoil the child .
But if you lie about it you disgrace the name of Washington forever . ''
This appeal seemed to convulse George with inward agony , for he squirmed most effectively as he drew from his pocket a toy hatchet , which would not have cut a straw , then looking straight up into the awe-inspiring countenance of his parent , he bravely lisped , -- `` Papa , I tannot tell a lie .
I did tut it with my little hanchet . ''
`` Noble boy -- come to my arms !
I had rather you spoilt all my cherry trees than tell one lie ! ''
cried the delighted gentleman , catching his son in an embrace so close that the fat legs kicked convulsively , and the little coat-tails waved in the breeze , while cane and hatchet fell with a dramatic bang .
The curtain descended on this affecting tableau ; but the audience called out both Washingtons , and they came , hand in hand , bowing with the cocked hats pressed to their breasts , the elder smiling blandly , while the younger , still flushed by his exertions , nodded to his friends , asking , with engaging frankness , `` Was n't it nice ? ''
The next was a marine piece , for a boat was seen , surrounded by tumultuous waves of blue cambric , and rowed by a party of stalwart men in regimentals , who with difficulty kept their seats , for the boat was only a painted board , and they sat on boxes or stools behind it .
But few marked the rowers , for in their midst , tall , straight , and steadfast as a mast , stood one figure in a cloak , with folded arms , high boots , and , under the turned-up hat , a noble countenance , stern with indomitable courage .
A sword glittered at his side , and a banner waved over him , but his eye was fixed on the distant shore , and he was evidently unconscious of the roaring billows , the blocks of ice , the discouragement of his men , or the danger and death that might await him .
Napoleon crossing the Alps was not half so sublime , and with one voice the audience cried , `` Washington crossing the Delaware ! ''
while the band burst forth with , `` See , the conquering hero comes ! ''
all out of tune , but bound to play it or die in the attempt .
It would have been very successful if , all of a sudden , one of the rowers had not `` caught a crab '' with disastrous consequences .
The oars were not moving , but a veteran , who looked very much like Joe , dropped the one he held , and in trying to turn and pummel the black-eyed warrior behind him , he tumbled off his seat , upsetting two other men , and pulling the painted boat upon them as they lay kicking in the cambric deep .
Shouts of laughter greeted this mishap , but George Washington never stirred .
Grasping the banner , he stood firm when all else went down in the general wreck , and the icy waves engulfed his gallant crew , leaving him erect amid a chaos of wildly tossing boots , entangled oars , and red-faced victims .
Such god-like dignity could not fail to impress the frivolous crowd of laughers , and the curtain fell amid a round of applause for him alone .
`` Quite exciting , was n't it ?
Did n't know Gus had so much presence of mind , '' said Mr. Burton , well pleased with his boy .
`` If we did not know that Washington died in his bed , December 14 , 1799 , I should fear that we 'd seen the last of him in that shipwreck , '' laughed an old gentleman , proud of his memory for dates .
Much confusion reigned behind the scenes ; Ralph was heard scolding , and Joe set every one off again by explaining , audibly , that Grif tickled him , and he could n't stand it .
A pretty , old-fashioned picture of the `` Daughters of Liberty '' followed , for the girls were determined to do honor to the brave and patient women who so nobly bore their part in the struggle , yet are usually forgotten when those days are celebrated .
The damsels were charming in the big caps , flowered gowns , and high-heeled shoes of their great-grandmothers , as they sat about a spider-legged table talking over the tax , and pledging themselves to drink no more tea till it was taken off .
Molly was on her feet proposing , `` Liberty forever , and down with all tyrants , '' to judge from her flashing eyes as she held her egg-shell cup aloft , while the others lifted theirs to drink the toast , and Merry , as hostess , sat with her hand on an antique teapot , labelled `` Sage , '' ready to fill again when the patriotic ladies were ready for a second `` dish . ''
This was much applauded , and the curtain went up again , for the proud parents enjoyed seeing their pretty girls in the faded finery of a hundred years ago .
The band played `` Auld Lang Syne , '' as a gentle hint that our fore-mothers should be remembered as well as the fore-fathers .
It was evident that something very martial was to follow , for a great tramping , clashing , and flying about took place behind the scenes while the tea-party was going on .
After some delay , `` The Surrender of Cornwallis '' was presented in the most superb manner , as you can believe when I tell you that the stage was actually lined with a glittering array of Washington and his generals , Lafayette , Kosciusko , Rochambeau and the rest , all in astonishing uniforms , with swords which were evidently the pride of their lives .
Fife and drum struck up a march , and in came Cornwallis , much cast down but full of manly resignation , as he surrendered his sword , and stood aside with averted eyes while his army marched past , piling their arms at the hero 's feet .
This scene was the delight of the boys , for the rifles of Company F had been secured , and at least a dozen soldiers kept filing in and out in British uniform till Washington 's august legs were hidden by the heaps of arms rattled down before him .
The martial music , the steady tramp , and the patriotic memories awakened , caused this scene to be enthusiastically encored , and the boys would have gone on marching till midnight if Ralph had not peremptorily ordered down the curtain and cleared the stage for the next tableau .
This had been artfully slipped in between two brilliant ones , to show that the Father of his Country had to pay a high price for his glory .
The darkened stage represented what seemed to be a camp in a snow-storm , and a very forlorn camp , too ; for on `` the cold , cold ground '' -LRB- a reckless display of cotton batting -RRB- lay ragged soldiers , sleeping without blankets , their worn-out boots turned up pathetically , and no sign of food or fire to be seen .
A very shabby sentinel , with feet bound in bloody cloths , and his face as pale as chalk could make it , gnawed a dry crust as he kept his watch in the wintry night .
A tent at the back of the stage showed a solitary figure sitting on a log of wood , poring over the map spread upon his knee , by the light of one candle stuck in a bottle .
There could be no doubt who this was , for the buff-and-blue coat , the legs , the nose , the attitude , all betrayed the great George laboring to save his country , in spite of privations , discouragements , and dangers which would have daunted any other man .
`` Valley Forge , '' said someone , and the room was very still as old and young looked silently at this little picture of a great and noble struggle in one of its dark hours .
The crust , the wounded feet , the rags , the snow , the loneliness , the indomitable courage and endurance of these men touched the hearts of all , for the mimic scene grew real for a moment ; and , when a child 's voice broke the silence , asking pitifully , `` Oh , mamma , was it truly as dreadful as that ? ''
a general outburst answered , as if every one wanted to cheer up the brave fellows and bid them fight on , for victory was surely coming .
In the next scene it did come , and `` Washington at Trenton '' was prettily done .
An arch of flowers crossed the stage , with the motto , `` The Defender of the Mothers will be the Preserver of the Daughters ; '' and , as the hero with his generals advanced on one side , a troop of girls , in old-fashioned muslin frocks , came to scatter flowers before him , singing the song of long ago : -- `` Welcome , mighty chief , once more Welcome to this grateful shore ; Now no mercenary foe Aims again the fatal blow , -- Aims at thee the fatal blow .
`` Virgins fair and matrons grave , Those thy conquering arm did save , Build for thee triumphal bowers ; Strew , ye fair , his way with flowers , -- Strew your hero 's way with flowers . ''
And they did , singing with all their hearts as they flung artificial roses and lilies at the feet of the great men , who bowed with benign grace .
Jack , who did Lafayette with a limp , covered himself with glory by picking up one of the bouquets and pressing it to his heart with all the gallantry of a Frenchman ; and when Washington lifted the smallest of the maids and kissed her , the audience cheered .
Could n't help it , you know , it was so pretty and inspiring .
The Washington Family , after the famous picture , came next , with Annette as the serene and sensible Martha , in a very becoming cap .
The General was in uniform , there being no time to change , but his attitude was quite correct , and the Custis boy and girl displayed the wide sash and ruffled collar with historic fidelity .
The band played `` Home , '' and every one agreed that it was `` Sweet ! ''
`` Now I do n't see what more they can have except the death-bed , and that would be rather out of place in this gay company , '' said the old gentleman to Mr. Burton , as he mopped his heated face after pounding so heartily he nearly knocked the ferule off his cane .
`` No ; they gave that up , for my boy would n't wear a night-gown in public .
I ca n't tell secrets , but I think they have got a very clever little finale for the first part -- a pretty compliment to one person and a pleasant surprise to all , '' answered Mr. Burton , who was in great spirits , being fond of theatricals and very justly proud of his children , for the little girls had been among the Trenton maids , and the mimic General had kissed his own small sister , Nelly , very tenderly .
A great deal of interest was felt as to what this surprise was to be , and a general `` Oh ! ''
greeted the `` Minute Man , '' standing motionless upon his pedestal .
It was Frank , and Ralph had done his best to have the figure as perfect as possible , for the maker of the original had been a good friend to him ; and , while the young sculptor was dancing gayly at the ball , this copy of his work was doing him honor among the children .
Frank looked it very well , for his firm-set mouth was full of resolution , his eyes shone keen and courageous under the three-cornered hat , and the muscles stood out upon the bare arm that clutched the old gun .
Even the buttons on the gaiters seemed to flash defiance , as the sturdy legs took the first step from the furrow toward the bridge where the young farmer became a hero when he `` fired the shot heard ` round the world . ''
`` That is splendid ! ''
`` As like to the original as flesh can be to bronze . ''
`` How still he stands ! ''
`` He 'll fight when the time comes , and die hard , wo n't he ? ''
`` Hush !
You make the statue blush ! ''
These very audible remarks certainly did , for the color rose visibly as the modest lad heard himself praised , though he saw but one face in all the crowd , his mother 's , far back , but full of love and pride , as she looked up at her young minute man waiting for the battle which often calls us when we least expect it , and for which she had done her best to make him ready .
If there had been any danger of Frank being puffed up by the success of his statue , it was counteracted by irrepressible Grif , who , just at the most interesting moment , when all were gazing silently , gave a whistle , followed by a `` Choo , choo , choo ! ''
and `` All aboard ! ''
so naturally that no one could mistake the joke , especially as another laughing voice added , `` Now , then , No. 11 ! ''
which brought down the house and the curtain too .
Frank was so angry , it was very difficult to keep him on his perch for the last scene of all .
He submitted , however , rather than spoil the grand finale , hoping that its beauty would efface that ill-timed pleasantry from the public mind .
So , when the agreeable clamor of hands and voices called for a repetition , the Minute Man reappeared , grimmer than before .
But not alone , for grouped all about his pedestal were Washington and his generals , the matrons and maids , with a background of troops shouldering arms , Grif and Joe doing such rash things with their muskets , that more than one hero received a poke in his august back .
Before the full richness of this picture had been taken in , Ed gave a rap , and all burst out with `` Hail Columbia , '' in such an inspiring style that it was impossible for the audience to refrain from joining , which they did , all standing and all singing with a heartiness that made the walls ring .
The fife shrilled , the horn blew sweet and clear , the fiddle was nearly drowned by the energetic boom of the drum , and out into the starry night , through open windows , rolled the song that stirs the coldest heart with patriotic warmth and tunes every voice to music . ''
` America ! '
We must have ` America ! '
Pipe up , Ed , this is too good to end without one song more , '' cried Mr. Burton , who had been singing like a trumpet ; and , hardly waiting to get their breath , off they all went again with the national hymn , singing as they never had sung it before , for somehow the little scenes they had just acted or beheld seemed to show how much this dear America of ours had cost in more than one revolution , how full of courage , energy , and virtue it was in spite of all its faults , and what a privilege , as well as duty , it was for each to do his part toward its safety and its honor in the present , as did those brave men and women in the past .
So the `` Scenes from the Life of Washington '' were a great success , and , when the songs were over , people were glad of a brief recess while they had raptures , and refreshed themselves with lemonade .
The girls had kept the secret of who the `` Princess '' was to be , and , when the curtain rose , a hum of surprise and pleasure greeted the pretty group .
Jill lay asleep in all her splendor , the bonny `` Prince '' just lifting the veil to wake her with a kiss , and all about them the court in its nap of a hundred years .
The `` King '' and `` Queen '' dozing comfortably on the throne ; the maids of honor , like a garland of nodding flowers , about the couch ; the little page , unconscious of the blow about to fall , and the fool dreaming , with his mouth wide open .
It was so pretty , people did not tire of looking , till Jack 's lame leg began to tremble , and he whispered : `` Drop her or I shall pitch . ''
Down went the curtain ; but it rose in a moment , and there was the court after the awakening : the `` King '' and `` Queen '' looking about them with sleepy dignity , the maids in various attitudes of surprise , the fool grinning from ear to ear , and the `` Princess '' holding out her hand to the `` Prince , '' as if glad to welcome the right lover when he came at last .
Molly got the laugh this time , for she could not resist giving poor Boo the cuff which had been hanging over him so long .
She gave it with unconscious energy , and Boo cried `` Ow ! ''
so naturally that all the children were delighted and wanted it repeated .
But Boo declined , and the scenes which followed were found quite as much to their taste , having been expressly prepared for the little people .
Mother Goose 's Reception was really very funny , for Ralph was the old lady , and had hired a representation of the immortal bird from a real theatre for this occasion .
There they stood , the dame in her pointed hat , red petticoat , cap , and cane , with the noble fowl , a good deal larger than life , beside her , and Grif inside , enjoying himself immensely as he flapped the wings , moved the yellow legs , and waved the long neck about , while unearthly quacks issued from the bill .
That was a great surprise for the children , and they got up in their seats to gaze their fill , many of them firmly believing that they actually beheld the blessed old woman who wrote the nursery songs they loved so well .
Then in came , one after another , the best of the characters she has made famous , while a voice behind the scenes sang the proper rhyme as each made their manners to the interesting pair .
`` Mistress Mary , '' and her `` pretty maids all in a row , '' passed by to their places in the background ; `` King Cole '' and his `` fiddlers three '' made a goodly show ; so did the royal couple , who followed the great pie borne before them , with the `` four-and-twenty blackbirds '' popping their heads out in the most delightful way .
Little `` Bo-Peep '' led a woolly lamb and wept over its lost tail , for not a sign of one appeared on the poor thing .
`` Simple Simon '' followed the pie-man , gloating over his wares with the drollest antics .
The little wife came trundling by in a wheelbarrow and was not upset ; neither was the lady with `` rings on her fingers and bells on her toes , '' as she cantered along on a rocking-horse .
`` Bobby Shafto 's '' yellow hair shone finely as he led in the maid whom he came back from sea to marry .
`` Miss Muffet , '' bowl in hand , ran away from an immense black spider , which waggled its long legs in a way so life-like that some of the children shook in their little shoes .
The beggars who came to town were out in full force , `` rags , tags , and velvet gowns , '' quite true to life .
`` Boy Blue '' rubbed his eyes , with hay sticking in his hair , and tooted on a tin horn as if bound to get the cows out of the corn .
Molly , with a long-handled frying-pan , made a capital `` Queen , '' in a tucked-up gown , checked apron , and high crown , to good `` King Arthur , '' who , very properly , did not appear after stealing the barley-meal , which might be seen in the pan tied up in a pudding , like a cannon-ball , ready to fry .
But Tobias , Molly 's black cat , covered himself with glory by the spirit with which he acted his part in , `` Sing , sing , what shall I sing ?
The cat 's run away with the pudding-bag string . ''
First he was led across the stage on his hind legs , looking very fierce and indignant , with a long tape trailing behind him ; and , being set free at the proper moment , he gave one bound over the four-and-twenty blackbirds who happened to be in the way , and dashed off as if an enraged cook had actually been after him , straight downstairs to the coal-bin , where he sat glaring in the dark , till the fun was over .
When all the characters had filed in and stood in two long rows , music struck up and they danced , `` All the way to Boston , '' a simple but lively affair , which gave each a chance to show his or her costume as they pranced down the middle and up outside .
Such a funny medley as it was , for there went fat `` King Cole '' with the most ragged of the beggar-maids .
`` Mistress Mary , '' in her pretty blue dress , tripped along with `` Simple Simon '' staring about him like a blockhead .
The fine lady left her horse to dance with `` Bobby Shafto '' till every bell on her slippers tinkled its tongue out .
`` Bo-Peep '' and a jolly fiddler skipped gayly up and down .
`` Miss Muffet '' took the big spider for her partner , and made his many legs fly about in the wildest way .
The little wife got out of the wheelbarrow to help `` Boy Blue '' along , and Molly , with the frying-pan over her shoulder , led off splendidly when it was `` Grand right and left . ''
But the old lady and her goose were the best of all , for the dame 's shoe-buckles cut the most astonishing pigeon-wings , and to see that mammoth bird waddle down the middle with its wings half open , its long neck bridling , and its yellow legs in the first position as it curtsied to its partner , was a sight to remember , it was so intensely funny .
The merry old gentleman laughed till he cried ; Mr. Burton split his gloves , he applauded so enthusiastically ; while the children beat the dust out of the carpet hopping up and down , as they cried : `` Do it again ! ''
`` We want it all over ! ''
when the curtain went down at last on the flushed and panting party , Mother G -- bowing , with her hat all awry , and the goose doing a double shuffle as if it did not know how to leave off .
But they could not `` do it all over again , '' for it was growing late , and the people felt that they certainly had received their money 's worth that evening .
So it all ended merrily , and when the guests departed the boys cleared the room like magic , and the promised supper to the actors was served in handsome style .
Jack and Jill were at one end , Mrs. Goose and her bird at the other , and all between was a comical collection of military heroes , fairy characters , and nursery celebrities .
All felt the need of refreshment after their labors , and swept over the table like a flight of locusts , leaving devastation behind .
But they had earned their fun : and much innocent jollity prevailed , while a few lingering papas and mammas watched the revel from afar , and had not the heart to order these noble beings home till even the Father of his Country declared `` that he 'd had a perfectly splendid time , but could n't keep his eyes open another minute , '' and very wisely retired to replace the immortal cocked hat with a night-cap .
Chapter XIII .
Jack Has a Mystery `` What is the matter ?
Does your head ache ? ''
asked Jill , one evening in March , observing that Jack sat with his head in his hands , an attitude which , with him , meant either pain or perplexity .
`` No ; but I 'm bothered .
I want some money , and I do n't see how I can earn it , '' he answered , tumbling his hair about , and frowning darkly at the fire .
`` How much ? ''
and Jill 's ready hand went to the pocket where her little purse lay , for she felt rich with several presents lately made her .
`` Two seventy-five .
No , thank you , I wo n't borrow . ''
`` What is it for ? ''
`` Ca n't tell . ''
`` Why , I thought you told me everything . ''
`` Sorry , but I ca n't this time .
Do n't you worry ; I shall think of something . ''
`` Could n't your mother help ? ''
`` Do n't wish to ask her . ''
`` Why !
ca n't she know ? ''
`` Nobody can . ''
`` How queer !
Is it a scrape , Jack ? ''
asked Jill , looking as curious as a magpie .
`` It is likely to be , if I ca n't get out of it this week , somehow . ''
`` Well , I do n't see how I can help if I 'm not to know anything ; '' and Jill seemed rather hurt .
`` You can just stop asking questions , and tell me how a fellow can earn some money .
That would help .
I 've got one dollar , but I must have some more ; '' and Jack looked worried as he fingered the little gold dollar on his watch-guard .
`` Oh , do you mean to use that ? ''
`` Yes , I do ; a man must pay his debts if he sells all he has to do it , '' said Jack sternly .
`` Dear me ; it must be something very serious . ''
And Jill lay quite still for five minutes , thinking over all the ways in which Jack ever did earn money , for Mrs. Minot liked to have her boys work , and paid them in some way for all they did .
`` Is there any wood to saw ? ''
she asked presently , being very anxious to help .
`` All done . ''
`` Paths to shovel ? ''
`` No snow . ''
`` Lawn to rake , then ? ''
`` Not time for that yet . ''
`` Catalogue of books ? ''
`` Frank got that job . ''
`` Copy those letters for your mother ? ''
`` Take me too long .
Must have my money Friday , if possible . ''
`` I do n't see what we can do , then .
It is too early or too late for everything , and you wo n't borrow . ''
`` Not of you .
No , nor of any one else , if I can possibly help it .
I 've promised to do this myself , and I will ; '' and Jack wagged his head resolutely .
`` Could n't you do something with the printing-press ?
Do me some cards , and then , perhaps , the other girls will want some , '' said Jill , as a forlorn hope .
`` Just the thing !
What a goose I was not to think of it .
I 'll rig the old machine up at once . ''
And , starting from his seat , Jack dived into the big closet , dragged out the little press , and fell to oiling , dusting , and putting it in order , like one relieved of a great anxiety .
`` Give me the types ; I 'll sort them and set up my name , so you can begin as soon as you are ready .
You know what a help I was when we did the programmes .
I 'm almost sure the girls will want cards , and I know your mother would like some more tags , '' said Jill , briskly rattling the letters into the different compartments , while Jack inked the rollers and hunted up his big apron , whistling the while with recovered spirits .
A dozen neat cards were soon printed , and Jill insisted on paying six cents for them , as earning was not borrowing .
A few odd tags were found and done for Mamma , who immediately ordered four dozen at six cents a dozen , though she was not told why there was such a pressing call for money .
Jack 's monthly half-dollar had been spent the first week , -- twenty-five cents for a concert , ten paid a fine for keeping a book too long from the library , ten more to have his knife ground , and five in candy , for he dearly loved sweeties , and was under bonds to Mamma not to spend more than five cents a month on these unwholesome temptations .
She never asked the boys what they did with their money , but expected them to keep account in the little books she gave them ; and , now and then , they showed the neat pages with pardonable pride , though she often laughed at the queer items .
All that evening Jack & Co. worked busily , for when Frank came in he good-naturedly ordered some pale-pink cards for Annette , and ran to the store to choose the right shade , and buy some packages for the young printer also .
`` What do you suppose he is in such a pucker for ? ''
whispered Jill , as she set up the new name , to Frank , who sat close by , with one eye on his book and one on her .
`` Oh , some notion .
He 's a queer chap ; but I guess it is n't much of a scrape , or I should know it .
He 's so good-natured he 's always promising to do things for people , and has too much pluck to give up when he finds he ca n't .
Let him alone , and it will all come out soon enough , '' answered Frank , who laughed at his brother , but loved him none the less for the tender heart that often got the better of his young head .
But for once Frank was mistaken ; the mystery did not come out , and Jack worked like a beaver all that week , as orders poured in when Jill and Annette showed their elegant cards ; for , as everybody knows , if one girl has a new thing all the rest must , whether it is a bow on the top of her head , a peculiar sort of pencil , or the latest kind of chewing-gum .
Little play did the poor fellow get , for every spare minute was spent at the press , and no invitation could tempt him away , so much in earnest was our honest little Franklin about paying his debt .
Jill helped all she could , and cheered his labors with her encouragement , remembering how he stayed at home for her .
`` It is real good of you to lend a hand , and I 'm ever so much obliged , '' said Jack , as the last order was struck off , and the drawer of the type-box held a pile of shining five and ten cent pieces , with two or three quarters .
`` I love to ; only it would be nicer if I knew what we were working for , '' she said demurely , as she scattered type for the last time ; and seeing that Jack was both tired and grateful , hoped to get a hint of the secret .
`` I want to tell you , dreadfully ; but I ca n't , because I 've promised . ''
`` What , never ? ''
`` Never ! ''
and Jack looked as firm as a rock .
`` Then I shall find out , for I have n't promised . ''
`` You ca n't . ''
`` See if I do n't ! ''
`` You are sharp , but you wo n't guess this .
It 's a tremendous secret , and nobody will tell it . ''
`` You 'll tell it yourself .
You always do . ''
`` I wo n't tell this .
It would be mean . ''
`` Wait and see ; I can get anything out of you if I try ; '' and Jill laughed , knowing her power well , for Jack found it very hard to keep a secret from her .
`` Do n't try ; please do n't !
It would n't be right , and you do n't want to make me do a dishonorable thing for your sake , I know . ''
Jack looked so distressed that Jill promised not to make him tell , though she held herself free to find out in other ways , if she could .
Thus relieved , Jack trudged off to school on Friday with the two dollars and seventy-five cents jingling in his pocket , though the dear gold coin had to be sacrificed to make up the sum .
He did his lessons badly that day , was late at recess in the afternoon , and , as soon as school was over , departed in his rubber boots `` to take a walk , '' he said , though the roads were in a bad state with a spring thaw .
Nothing was seen of him till after tea-time , when he came limping in , very dirty and tired , but with a reposeful expression , which betrayed that a load was off his mind .
Frank was busy about his own affairs and paid little attention to him , but Jill was on tenter-hooks to know where he had been , yet dared not ask the question .
`` Merry 's brother wants some cards .
He liked hers so much he wishes to make his lady-love a present .
Here 's the name ; '' and Jill held up the order from Harry Grant , who was to be married in the autumn .
`` Must wait till next week .
I 'm too tired to do a thing to-night , and I hate the sight of that old press , '' answered Jack , laying himself down upon the rug as if every joint ached .
`` What made you take such a long walk ?
You look as tired as if you 'd been ten miles , '' said Jill , hoping to discover the length of the trip .
`` Had to .
Four or five miles is n't much , only my leg bothered me ; '' and Jack gave the ailing member a slap , as if he had found it much in his way that day ; for , though he had given up the crutches long ago , he rather missed their support sometimes .
Then , with a great yawn , he stretched himself out to bask in the blaze , pillowing his head on his arms .
`` Dear old thing , he looks all used up ; I wo n't plague him with talking ; '' and Jill began to sing , as she often did in the twilight .
By the time the first song ended a gentle snore was heard , and Jack lay fast asleep , worn out with the busy week and the walk , which had been longer and harder than any one guessed .
Jill took up her knitting and worked quietly by firelight , still wondering and guessing what the secret could be ; for she had not much to amuse her , and little things were very interesting if connected with her friends .
Presently Jack rolled over and began to mutter in his sleep , as he often did when too weary for sound slumber .
Jill paid no attention till he uttered a name which made her prick up her ears and listen to the broken sentences which followed .
Only a few words , but she dropped her work , saying to herself , -- `` I do believe he is talking about the secret .
Now I shall find out , and he will tell me himself , as I said he would . ''
Much pleased , she leaned and listened , but could make no sense of the confused babble about `` heavy boots ; '' `` All right , old fellow ; '' `` Jerry 's off ; '' and `` The ink is too thick . ''
The slam of the front door woke Jack , and he pulled himself up , declaring that he believed he had been having a nap .
`` I wish you 'd have another , '' said Jill , greatly disappointed at the loss of the intelligence she seemed to be so near getting .
`` Floor is too hard for tired bones .
Guess I 'll go to bed and get rested up for Monday .
I 've worked like fury this week , so next I 'm going in for fun ; '' and , little dreaming what hard times were in store for him , Jack went off to enjoy his warm bath and welcome bed , where he was soon sleeping with the serene look of one whose dreams were happy , whose conscience was at rest .
* * * * * `` I have a few words to say to you before you go , '' said Mr. Acton , pausing with his hand on the bell , Monday afternoon , when the hour came for dismissing school .
The bustle of putting away books and preparing for as rapid a departure as propriety allowed , subsided suddenly , and the boys and girls sat as still as mice , while the hearts of such as had been guilty of any small sins began to beat fast .
`` You remember that we had some trouble last winter about keeping the boys away from the saloon , and that a rule was made forbidding any pupil to go to town during recess ? ''
began Mr. Acton , who , being a conscientious man as well as an excellent teacher , felt that he was responsible for the children in school hours , and did his best to aid parents in guarding them from the few temptations which beset them in a country town .
A certain attractive little shop , where confectionery , baseballs , stationery , and picture papers were sold , was a favorite loafing place for some of the boys till the rule forbidding it was made , because in the rear of the shop was a beer and billiard saloon .
A wise rule , for the picture papers were not always of the best sort ; cigars were to be had ; idle fellows hung about there , and some of the lads , who wanted to be thought manly , ventured to pass the green baize door `` just to look on . ''
A murmur answered the teacher 's question , and he continued , `` You all know that the rule was broken several times , and I told you the next offender would be publicly reprimanded , as private punishments had no effect .
I am sorry to say that the time has come , and the offender is a boy whom I trusted entirely .
It grieves me to do this , but I must keep my promise , and hope the example will have a good effect . ''
Mr. Acton paused , as if he found it hard to go on , and the boys looked at one another with inquiring eyes , for their teacher seldom punished , and when he did , it was a very solemn thing .
Several of these anxious glances fell upon Joe , who was very red and sat whittling a pencil as if he dared not lift his eyes .
`` He 's the chap .
Wo n't he catch it ? ''
whispered Gus to Frank , for both owed him a grudge .
`` The boy who broke the rule last Friday , at afternoon recess , will come to the desk , '' said Mr. Acton in his most impressive manner .
If a thunderbolt had fallen through the roof it would hardly have caused a greater surprise than the sight of Jack Minot walking slowly down the aisle , with a wrathful flash in the eyes he turned on Joe as he passed him .
`` Now , Minot , let us have this over as soon as possible , for I do not like it any better than you do , and I am sure there is some mistake .
I 'm told you went to the shop on Friday .
Is it true ? ''
asked Mr. Acton very gently , for he liked Jack and seldom had to correct him in any way .
`` Yes , sir ; '' and Jack looked up as if proud to show that he was not afraid to tell the truth as far as he could .
`` To buy something ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
`` To meet someone ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Was it Jerry Shannon ? ''
No answer , but Jack 's fists doubled up of themselves as he shot another fiery glance at Joe , whose face burned as if it scorched him .
`` I am told it was ; also that you were seen to go into the saloon with him .
Did you ? ''
and Mr. Acton looked so sure that it was a mistake that it cost Jack a great effort to say , slowly , -- `` Yes , sir . ''
Quite a thrill pervaded the school at this confession , for Jerry was one of the wild fellows the boys all shunned , and to have any dealings with him was considered a very disgraceful thing .
`` Did you play ? ''
`` No , sir .
I ca n't . ''
`` Drink beer ? ''
`` I belong to the Lodge ; '' and Jack stood as erect as any little soldier who ever marched under a temperance banner , and fought for the cause none are too young nor too old to help along .
`` I was sure of that .
Then what took you there , my boy ? ''
The question was so kindly put that Jack forgot himself an instant , and blurted out , -- `` I only went to pay him some money , sir . ''
`` Ah , how much ? ''
`` Two seventy-five , '' muttered Jack , as red as a cherry at not being able to keep a secret better .
`` Too much for a lad like you to owe such a fellow as Jerry .
How came it ? ''
And Mr. Acton looked disturbed .
Jack opened his lips to speak , but shut them again , and stood looking down with a little quiver about the mouth that showed how much it cost him to be silent .
`` Does any one beside Jerry know of this ? ''
`` One other fellow , '' after a pause .
`` Yes , I understand ; '' and Mr. Acton 's eye glanced at Joe with a look that seemed to say , `` I wish he 'd held his tongue . ''
A queer smile flitted over Jack 's face , for Joe was not the `` other fellow , '' and knew very little about it , excepting what he had seen when he was sent on an errand by Mr. Acton on Friday .
`` I wish you would explain the matter , John , for I am sure it is better than it seems , and it would be very hard to punish you when you do n't deserve it . ''
`` But I do deserve it ; I 've broken the rule , and I ought to be punished , '' said Jack , as if a good whipping would be easier to bear than this public cross-examination .
`` And you ca n't explain , or even say you are sorry or ashamed ? ''
asked Mr. Acton , hoping to surprise another fact out of the boy .
`` No , sir ; I ca n't ; I 'm not ashamed ; I 'm not sorry , and I 'd do it again to-morrow if I had to , '' cried Jack , losing patience , and looking as if he would not bear much more .
A groan from the boys greeted this bare-faced declaration , and Susy quite shivered at the idea of having taken two bites out of the apple of such a hardened desperado .
`` Think it over till to-morrow , and perhaps you will change your mind .
Remember that this is the last week of the month , and reports are given out next Friday , '' said Mr. Acton , knowing how much the boy prided himself on always having good ones to show his mother .
Poor Jack turned scarlet and bit his lips to keep them still , for he had forgotten this when he plunged into the affair which was likely to cost him dear .
Then the color faded away , the boyish face grew steady , and the honest eyes looked up at his teacher as he said very low , but all heard him , the room was so still , -- `` It is n't as bad as it looks , sir , but I ca n't say any more .
No one is to blame but me ; and I could n't help breaking the rule , for Jerry was going away , I had only that time , and I 'd promised to pay up , so I did . ''
Mr. Acton believed every word he said , and regretted that they had not been able to have it out privately , but he , too , must keep his promise and punish the offender , whoever he was .
`` Very well , you will lose your recess for a week , and this month 's report will be the first one in which behavior does not get the highest mark .
You may go ; and I wish it understood that Master Minot is not to be troubled with questions till he chooses to set this matter right . ''
Then the bell rang , the children trooped out , Mr. Acton went off without another word , and Jack was left alone to put up his books and hide a few tears that would come because Frank turned his eyes away from the imploring look cast upon him as the culprit came down from the platform , a disgraced boy .
Elder brothers are apt to be a little hard on younger ones , so it is not surprising that Frank , who was an eminently proper boy , was much cut up when Jack publicly confessed to dealings with Jerry , leaving it to be supposed that the worst half of the story remained untold .
He felt it his duty , therefore , to collar poor Jack when he came out , and talk to him all the way home , like a judge bent on getting at the truth by main force .
A kind word would have been very comforting , but the scolding was too much for Jack 's temper , so he turned dogged and would not say a word , though Frank threatened not to speak to him for a week .
At tea-time both boys were very silent , one looking grim , the other excited .
Frank stared sternly at his brother across the table , and no amount of marmalade sweetened or softened that reproachful look .
Jack defiantly crunched his toast , with occasional slashes at the butter , as if he must vent the pent-up emotions which half distracted him .
Of course , their mother saw that something was amiss , but did not allude to it , hoping that the cloud would blow over as so many did if left alone .
But this one did not , and when both refused cake , this sure sign of unusual perturbation made her anxious to know the cause .
As soon as tea was over , Jack retired with gloomy dignity to his own room , and Frank , casting away the paper he had been pretending to read , burst out with the whole story .
Mrs. Minot was as much surprised as he , but not angry , because , like most mothers , she was sure that her sons could not do anything very bad .
`` I will speak to him ; my boy wo n't refuse to give me some explanation , '' she said , when Frank had freed his mind with as much warmth as if Jack had broken all the ten commandments .
`` He will .
You often call me obstinate , but he is as pig-headed as a mule ; Joe only knows what he saw , old tell-tale !
and Jerry has left town , or I 'd have it out of him .
Make Jack own up , whether he can or not .
Little donkey ! ''
stormed Frank , who hated rowdies and could not forgive his brother for being seen with one .
`` My dear , all boys do foolish things sometimes , even the wisest and best behaved , so do n't be hard on the poor child .
He has got into trouble , I 've no doubt , but it can not be very bad , and he earned the money to pay for his prank , whatever it was . ''
Mrs. Minot left the room as she spoke , and Frank cooled down as if her words had been a shower-bath , for he remembered his own costly escapade , and how kindly both his mother and Jack had stood by him on that trying occasion .
So , feeling rather remorseful , he went off to talk it over with Gus , leaving Jill in a fever of curiosity , for Merry and Molly had dropped in on their way home to break the blow to her , and Frank declined to discuss it with her , after mildly stating that Jack was `` a ninny , '' in his opinion .
`` Well , I know one thing , '' said Jill confidentially to Snow-ball , when they were left alone together , `` if every one else is scolding him I wo n't say a word .
It 's so mean to crow over people when they are down , and I 'm sure he has n't done anything to be ashamed of , though he wo n't tell . ''
Snow-ball seemed to agree to this , for he went and sat down by Jack 's slippers waiting for him on the hearth , and Jill thought that a very touching proof of affectionate fidelity to the little master who ruled them both .
When he came , it was evident that he had found it harder to refuse his mother than all the rest .
But she trusted him in spite of appearances , and that was such a comfort !
For poor Jack 's heart was very full , and he longed to tell the whole story , but he would not break his promise , and so kept silence bravely .
Jill asked no questions , affecting to be anxious for the games they always played together in the evening , but while they played , though the lips were sealed , the bright eyes said as plainly as words , `` I trust you , '' and Jack was very grateful .
It was well he had something to cheer him up at home , for he got little peace at school .
He bore the grave looks of Mr. Acton meekly , took the boys ' jokes good-naturedly , and withstood the artful teasing of the girls with patient silence .
But it was very hard for the social , affectionate fellow to bear the general distrust , for he had been such a favorite he felt the change keenly .
But the thing that tried him most was the knowledge that his report would not be what it usually was .
It was always a happy moment when he showed it to his mother , and saw her eye brighten as it fell on the 99 or 100 , for she cared more for good behavior than for perfect lessons .
Mr. Acton once said that Frank Minot 's moral influence in the school was unusual , and Jack never forgot her pride and delight as she told them what Frank himself had not known till then .
It was Jack 's ambition to have the same said of him , for he was not much of a scholar , and he had tried hard since he went back to school to get good records in that respect at least .
Now here was a dreadful downfall , tardy marks , bad company , broken rules , and something too wrong to tell , apparently .
`` Well , I deserve a good report , and that 's a comfort , though nobody believes it , '' he said to himself , trying to keep up his spirits , as the slow week went by , and no word from him had cleared up the mystery .
Chapter XIV .
And Jill Finds It Out Jill worried about it more than he did , for she was a faithful little friend , and it was a great trial to have Jack even suspected of doing anything wrong .
School is a child 's world while he is there , and its small affairs are very important to him , so Jill felt that the one thing to be done was to clear away the cloud about her dear boy , and restore him to public favor .
`` Ed will be here Saturday night and may be he will find out , for Jack tells him everything .
I do hate to have him hectored so , for I know he is , though he 's too proud to complain , '' she said , on Thursday evening , when Frank told her some joke played upon his brother that day .
`` I let him alone , but I see that he is n't badgered too much .
That 's all I can do .
If Ed had only come home last Saturday it might have done some good , but now it will be too late ; for the reports are given out to-morrow , you know , '' answered Frank , feeling a little jealous of Ed 's influence over Jack , though his own would have been as great if he had been as gentle .
`` Has Jerry come back ? ''
asked Jill , who kept all her questions for Frank , because she seldom alluded to the tender subject when with Jack .
`` No , he 's off for the summer .
Got a place somewhere .
Hope he 'll stay there and let Bob alone . ''
`` Where is Bob now ?
I do n't hear much about him lately , '' said Jill , who was constantly on the lookout for `` the other fellow , '' since it was not Joe .
`` Oh , he went to Captain Skinner 's the first of March , chores round , and goes to school up there .
Captain is strict , and wo n't let Bob come to town , except Sundays ; but he do n't mind it much , for he likes horses , has nice grub , and the Hill fellows are good chaps for him to be with .
So he 's all right , if he only behaves . ''
`` How far is it to Captain Skinner 's ? ''
asked Jill suddenly , having listened , with her sharp eyes on Frank , as he tinkered away at his model , since he was forbidden all other indulgence in his beloved pastime .
`` It 's four miles to Hill District , but the Captain lives this side of the school-house .
About three from here , I should say . ''
`` How long would it take a boy to walk up there ? ''
went on the questioner , with a new idea in her head .
`` Depends on how much of a walkist he is . ''
`` Suppose he was lame and it was sloshy , and he made a call and came back .
How long would that take ? ''
asked Jill impatiently .
`` Well , in that case , I should say two or three hours .
But it 's impossible to tell exactly , unless you know how lame the fellow was , and how long a call he made , '' said Frank , who liked to be accurate .
`` Jack could n't do it in less , could he ? ''
`` He used to run up that hilly road for a breather , and think nothing of it .
It would be a long job for him now , poor little chap , for his leg often troubles him , though he hates to own it . ''
Jill lay back and laughed , a happy little laugh , as if she was pleased about something , and Frank looked over his shoulder to ask questions in his turn .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
`` Ca n't tell . ''
`` Why do you want to know about Hill District ?
Are you going there ? ''
`` Wish I could !
I 'd soon have it out of him . ''
`` Who ? ''
`` Never mind .
Please push up my table .
I must write a letter , and I want you to post it for me to-night , and never say a word till I give you leave . ''
`` Oh , now you are going to have secrets and be mysterious , and get into a mess , are you ? ''
and Frank looked down at her with a suspicious air , though he was intensely curious to know what she was about .
`` Go away till I 'm done .
You will have to see the outside , but you ca n't know the inside till the answer comes ; '' and propping herself up , Jill wrote the following note , with some hesitation at the beginning and end , for she did not know the gentleman she was addressing , except by sight , and it was rather awkward : -- `` Robert Walker .
`` Dear Sir , I want to ask if Jack Minot came to see you last Friday afternoon .
He got into trouble being seen with Jerry Shannon .
He paid him some money .
Jack wo n't tell , and Mr. Acton talked to him about it before all the school .
We feel bad , because we think Jack did not do wrong .
I do n't know as you have anything to do with it , but I thought I 'd ask .
Please answer quick .
Respectfully yours , `` Jane Pecq '' To make sure that her despatch was not tampered with , Jill put a great splash of red sealing-wax on it , which gave it a very official look , and much impressed Bob when he received it .
`` There !
Go and post it , and do n't let any one see or know about it , '' she said , handing it over to Frank , who left his work with unusual alacrity to do her errand .
When his eye fell on the address , he laughed , and said in a teasing way , -- `` Are you and Bob such good friends that you correspond ?
What will Jack say ? ''
`` Do n't know , and do n't care !
Be good , now , and let 's have a little secret as well as other folks .
I 'll tell you all about it when he answers , '' said Jill in her most coaxing tone .
`` Suppose he does n't ? ''
`` Then I shall send you up to see him .
I must know something , and I want to do it myself , if I can . ''
`` Look here ; what are you after ?
I do believe you think -- '' Frank got no farther , for Jill gave a little scream , and stopped him by crying eagerly , `` Do n't say it out loud !
I really do believe it may be , and I 'm going to find out . ''
`` What made you think of him ? ''
and Frank looked thoughtfully at the letter , as if turning carefully over in his mind the idea that Jill 's quick wits had jumped at .
`` Come here and I 'll tell you . ''
Holding him by one button , she whispered something in his ear that made him exclaim , with a look at the rug , -- `` No !
did he ?
I declare I should n't wonder !
It would be just like the dear old blunder-head . ''
`` I never thought of it till you told me where Bob was , and then it all sort of burst upon me in one minute ! ''
cried Jill , waving her arms about to express the intellectual explosion which had thrown light upon the mystery , like sky-rockets in a dark night .
`` You are as bright as a button .
No time to lose ; I 'm off ; '' and off he was , splashing through the mud to post the letter , on the back of which he added , to make the thing sure , `` Hurry up .
F.M. '' Both felt rather guilty next day , but enjoyed themselves very much nevertheless , and kept chuckling over the mine they were making under Jack 's unconscious feet .
They hardly expected an answer at noon , as the Hill people were not very eager for their mail , but at night Jill was sure of a letter , and to her great delight it came .
Jack brought it himself , which added to the fun , and while she eagerly read it he sat calmly poring over the latest number of his own private and particular `` Youth 's Companion . ''
Bob was not a `` complete letter-writer '' by any means , and with great labor and much ink had produced the following brief but highly satisfactory epistle .
Not knowing how to address his fair correspondent he let it alone , and went at once to the point in the frankest possible way : -- `` Jack did come up Friday .
Sorry he got into a mess .
It was real kind of him , and I shall pay him back soon .
Jack paid Jerry for me and I made him promise not to tell .
Jerry said he 'd come here and make a row if I did n't cash up .
I was afraid I 'd lose the place if he did , for the Capt. is awful strict .
If Jack do n't tell now , I will .
I ai n't mean .
Glad you wrote .
`` R.O.W. '' `` Hurrah ! ''
cried Jill , waving the letter over her head in great triumph .
`` Call everybody and read it out , '' she added , as Frank snatched it , and ran for his mother , seeing at a glance that the news was good .
Jill was so afraid she should tell before the others came that she burst out singing `` Pretty Bobby Shafto '' at the top of her voice , to Jack 's great disgust , for he considered the song very personal , as he was rather fond of `` combing down his yellow hair , '' and Jill often plagued him by singing it when he came in with the golden quirls very smooth and nice to hide the scar on his forehead .
In about five minutes the door flew open and in came Mamma , making straight for bewildered Jack , who thought the family had gone crazy when his parent caught him in her arms , saying tenderly , -- `` My good , generous boy !
I knew he was right all the time ! ''
while Frank worked his hand up and down like a pump-handle , exclaiming heartily , -- `` You 're a trump , sir , and I 'm proud of you ! ''
Jill meantime calling out , in wild delight , -- `` I told you so !
I told you so !
I did find out ; ha , ha , I did ! ''
`` Come , I say !
What 's the matter ?
I 'm all right .
Do n't squeeze the breath out of me , please , '' expostulated Jack , looking so startled and innocent , as he struggled feebly , that they all laughed , and this plaintive protest caused him to be released .
But the next proceeding did not enlighten him much , for Frank kept waving a very inky paper before him and ordering him to read it , while Mamma made a charge at Jill , as if it was absolutely necessary to hug somebody .
`` Hullo ! ''
said Jack , when he got the letter into his own hand and read it .
`` Now who put Bob up to this ?
Nobody had any business to interfere -- but it 's mighty good of him , anyway , '' he added , as the anxious lines in his round face smoothed themselves away , while a smile of relief told how hard it had been for him to keep his word .
`` I did ! ''
cried Jill , clapping her hands , and looking so happy that he could not have scolded her if he had wanted to .
`` Who told you he was in the scrape ? ''
demanded Jack , in a hurry to know all about it now the seal was taken off his own lips .
`` You did ; '' and Jill 's face twinkled with naughty satisfaction , for this was the best fun of all .
`` I did n't !
When ?
Where ?
It 's a joke ! ''
`` You did , '' cried Jill , pointing to the rug .
`` You went to sleep there after the long walk , and talked in your sleep about ` Bob ' and ` All right , old boy , ' and ever so much gibberish .
I did n't think about it then , but when I heard that Bob was up there I thought may be he knew something about it , and last night I wrote and asked him , and that 's the answer , and now it is all right , and you are the best boy that ever was , and I 'm so glad ! ''
Here Jill paused , all out of breath , and Frank said , with an approving pat on the head , -- `` It wo n't do to have such a sharp young person round if we are going to have secrets .
You 'd make a good detective , miss . ''
`` Catch me taking naps before people again ; '' and Jack looked rather crestfallen that his own words had set `` Fine Ear '' on the track .
`` Never mind , I did n't mean to tell , though I just ached to do it all the time , so I have n't broken my word .
I 'm glad you all know , but you need n't let it get out , for Bob is a good fellow , and it might make trouble for him , '' added Jack , anxious lest his gain should be the other 's loss .
`` I shall tell Mr. Acton myself , and the Captain , also , for I 'm not going to have my son suspected of wrong-doing when he has only tried to help a friend , and borne enough for his sake , '' said Mamma , much excited by this discovery of generous fidelity in her boy ; though when one came to look at it calmly , one saw that it might have been done in a wiser way .
`` Now , please , do n't make a fuss about it ; that would be most as bad as having every one down on me .
I can stand your praising me , but I wo n't be patted on the head by anybody else ; '' and Jack assumed a manly air , though his face was full of genuine boyish pleasure at being set right in the eyes of those he loved .
`` I 'll be discreet , dear , but you owe it to yourself , as well as Bob , to have the truth known .
Both have behaved well , and no harm will come to him , I am sure .
I 'll see to that myself , '' said Mrs. Minot , in a tone that set Jack 's mind at rest on that point .
`` Now do tell all about it , '' cried Jill , who was pining to know the whole story , and felt as if she had earned the right to hear it .
`` Oh , it was n't much .
We promised Ed to stand by Bob , so I did as well as I knew how ; '' and Jack seemed to think that was about all there was to say .
`` I never saw such a fellow for keeping a promise !
You stick to it through thick and thin , no matter how silly or hard it is .
You remember , mother , last summer , how you told him not to go in a boat and he promised , the day we went on the picnic .
We rode up , but the horse ran off home , so we had to come back by way of the river , all but Jack , and he walked every step of five miles because he would n't go near a boat , though Mr. Burton was there to take care of him .
I call that rather overdoing the matter ; '' and Frank looked as if he thought moderation even in virtue a good thing .
`` And I call it a fine sample of entire obedience .
He obeyed orders , and that is what we all must do , without always seeing why , or daring to use our own judgment .
It is a great safeguard to Jack , and a very great comfort to me ; for I know that if he promises he will keep his word , no matter what it costs him , '' said Mamma warmly , as she tumbled up the quirls with an irrepressible caress , remembering how the boy came wearily in after all the others , without seeming for a moment to think that he could have done anything else .
`` Like Casabianca ! ''
cried Jill , much impressed , for obedience was her hardest trial .
`` I think he was a fool to burn up , '' said Frank , bound not to give in .
`` I do n't .
It 's a splendid piece , and every one likes to speak it , and it was true , and it would n't be in all the books if he was a fool .
Grown people know what is good , '' declared Jill , who liked heroic actions , and was always hoping for a chance to distinguish herself in that way .
`` You admire ` The Charge of the Light Brigade , ' and glow all over as you thunder it out .
Yet they went gallantly to their death rather than disobey orders .
A mistake , perhaps , but it makes us thrill to hear of it ; and the same spirit keeps my Jack true as steel when once his word is passed , or he thinks it is his duty .
Do n't be laughed out of it , my son , for faithfulness in little things fits one for heroism when the great trials come .
One 's conscience can hardly be too tender when honor and honesty are concerned . ''
`` You are right , mother , and I am wrong .
I beg your pardon , Jack , and you sha 'n' t get ahead of me next time . ''
Frank made his mother a little bow , gave his brother a shake of the hand , and nodded to Jill , as if anxious to show that he was not too proud to own up when he made a mistake .
`` Please tell on , Jack .
This is very nice , but I do want to know all about the other , '' said Jill , after a short pause .
`` Let me see .
Oh , I saw Bob at church , and he looked rather blue ; so , after Sunday School , I asked what the matter was .
He said Jerry bothered him for some money he lent him at different times when they were loafing round together , before we took him up .
He would n't get any wages for some time .
The Captain keeps him short on purpose , I guess , and wo n't let him come down town except on Sundays .
He did n't want any one to know about it , for fear he 'd lose his place .
So I promised I would n't tell .
Then I was afraid Jerry would go and make a fuss , and Bob would run off , or do something desperate , being worried , and I said I 'd pay it for him , if I could .
So he went home pretty jolly , and I scratched ` round for the money .
Got it , too , and was n't I glad ? ''
Jack paused to rub his hands , and Frank said , with more than usual respect , `` Could n't you get hold of Jerry in any other place , and out of school time ?
That did the mischief , thanks to Joe .
I thrashed him , Jill -- did I mention it ? ''
`` I could n't get all my money till Friday morning , and I knew Jerry was off at night .
I looked for him before school , and at noon , but could n't find him , so afternoon recess was my last chance .
I was bound to do it and I did n't mean to break the rule , but Jerry was just going into the shop , so I pelted after him , and as it was private business we went to the billiard-room .
I declare I never was so relieved as when I handed over that money , and made him say it was all right , and he would n't go near Bob .
He 's off , so my mind is easy , and Bob will be so grateful I can keep him steady , perhaps .
That will be worth two seventy-five , I think , '' said Jack heartily .
`` You should have come to me , '' began Frank .
`` And got laughed at -- no , thank you , '' interrupted Jack , recollecting several philanthropic little enterprises which were nipped in the bud for want of co-operation .
`` To me , then , '' said his mother .
`` It would have saved so much trouble . ''
`` I thought of it , but Bob did n't want the big fellows to know for fear they 'd be down on him , so I thought he might not like me to tell grown people .
I do n't mind the fuss now , and Bob is as kind as he can be .
Wanted to give me his big knife , but I would n't take it .
I 'd rather have this , '' and Jack put the letter in his pocket with a slap outside , as if it warmed the cockles of his heart to have it there .
`` Well , it seems rather like a tempest in a teapot , now it is all over , but I do admire your pluck , little boy , in holding out so well when every one was scolding at you , and you in the right all the time , '' said Frank , glad to praise , now that he honestly could , after his wholesale condemnation .
`` That is what pulled me through , I suppose .
I used to think if I had done anything wrong , that I could n't stand the snubbing a day .
I should have told right off , and had it over .
Now , I guess I 'll have a good report if you do tell Mr. Acton , '' said Jack , looking at his mother so wistfully , that she resolved to slip away that very evening , and make sure that the thing was done .
`` That will make you happier than anything else , wo n't it ? ''
asked Jill , eager to have him rewarded after his trials .
`` There 's one thing I like better , though I 'd be very sorry to lose my report .
It 's the fun of telling Ed I tried to do as he wanted us to , and seeing how pleased he 'll be , '' added Jack , rather bashfully , for the boys laughed at him sometimes for his love of this friend .
`` I know he wo n't be any happier about it than someone else , who stood by you all through , and set her bright wits to work till the trouble was all cleared away , '' said Mrs. Minot , looking at Jill 's contented face , as she lay smiling on them all .
Jack understood , and , hopping across the room , gave both the thin hands a hearty shake ; then , not finding any words quite cordial enough in which to thank this faithful little sister , he stooped down and kissed her gratefully .
Chapter XV .
Saint Lucy Saturday was a busy and a happy time to Jack , for in the morning Mr. Acton came to see him , having heard the story overnight , and promised to keep Bob 's secret while giving Jack an acquittal as public as the reprimand had been .
Then he asked for the report which Jack had bravely received the day before and put away without showing to anybody .
`` There is one mistake here which we must rectify , '' said Mr. Acton , as he crossed out the low figures under the word `` Behavior , '' and put the much-desired 100 there .
`` But I did break the rule , sir , '' said Jack , though his face glowed with pleasure , for Mamma was looking on .
`` I overlook that as I should your breaking into my house if you saw it was on fire .
You ran to save a friend , and I wish I could tell those fellows why you were there .
It would do them good .
I am not going to praise you , John , but I did believe you in spite of appearances , and I am glad to have for a pupil a boy who loves his neighbor better than himself . ''
Then , having shaken hands heartily , Mr. Acton went away , and Jack flew off to have rejoicings with Jill , who sat up on her sofa , without knowing it , so eager was she to hear all about the call .
In the afternoon Jack drove his mother to the Captain 's , confiding to her on the way what a hard time he had when he went before , and how nothing but the thought of cheering Bob kept him up when he slipped and hurt his knee , and his boot sprung a leak , and the wind came up very cold , and the hill seemed an endless mountain of mud and snow .
Mrs. Minot had such a gentle way of putting things that she would have won over a much harder man than the strict old Captain , who heard the story with interest , and was much pleased with the boys ' efforts to keep Bob straight .
That young person dodged away into the barn with Jack , and only appeared at the last minute to shove a bag of chestnuts into the chaise .
But he got a few kind words that did him good , from Mrs. Minot and the Captain , and from that day felt himself under bonds to behave well if he would keep their confidence .
`` I shall give Jill the nuts ; and I wish I had something she wanted very , very much , for I do think she ought to be rewarded for getting me out of the mess , '' said Jack , as they drove happily home again .
`` I hope to have something in a day or two that will delight her very much .
I will say no more now , but keep my little secret and let it be a surprise to all by and by , '' answered his mother , looking as if she had not much doubt about the matter .
`` That will be jolly .
You are welcome to your secret , Mamma .
I 've had enough of them for one while ; '' and Jack shrugged his broad shoulders as if a burden had been taken off .
In the evening Ed came , and Jack was quite satisfied when he saw how pleased his friend was at what he had done .
`` I never meant you should take so much trouble , only be kind to Bob , '' said Ed , who did not know how strong his influence was , nor what a sweet example of quiet well-doing his own life was to all his mates .
`` I wished to be really useful ; not just to talk about it and do nothing .
That is n't your way , and I want to be like you , '' answered Jack , with such affectionate sincerity that Ed could not help believing him , though he modestly declined the compliment by saying , as he began to play softly , `` Better than I am , I hope .
I do n't amount to much . ''
`` Yes , you do !
and if any one says you do n't I 'll shake him .
I ca n't tell what it is , only you always look so happy and contented -- sort of sweet and shiny , '' said Jack , as he stroked the smooth brown head , rather at a loss to describe the unusually fresh and sunny expression of Ed 's face , which was always cheerful , yet had a certain thoughtfulness that made it very attractive to both young and old .
`` Soap makes him shiny ; I never saw such a fellow to wash and brush , '' put in Frank , as he came up with one of the pieces of music he and Ed were fond of practising together .
`` I do n't mean that ! ''
said Jack indignantly .
`` I wash and brush till you call me a dandy , but I do n't have the same look -- it seems to come from the inside , somehow , as if he was always jolly and clean and good in his mind , you know . ''
`` Born so , '' said Frank , rumbling away in the bass with a pair of hands that would have been the better for some of the above-mentioned soap , for he did not love to do much in the washing and brushing line .
`` I suppose that 's it .
Well , I like it , and I shall keep on trying , for being loved by every one is about the nicest thing in the world .
Is n't it , Ed ? ''
asked Jack , with a gentle tweak of the ear as he put a question which he knew would get no answer , for Ed was so modest he could not see wherein he differed from other boys , nor believe that the sunshine he saw in other faces was only the reflection from his own .
Sunday evening Mrs. Minot sat by the fire , planning how she should tell some good news she had been saving up all day .
Mrs. Pecq knew it , and seemed so delighted that she went about smiling as if she did not know what trouble meant , and could not do enough for the family .
She was downstairs now , seeing that the clothes were properly prepared for the wash , so there was no one in the Bird Room but Mamma and the children .
Frank was reading up all he could find about some Biblical hero mentioned in the day 's sermon ; Jill lay where she had lain for nearly four long months , and though her face was pale and thin with the confinement , there was an expression on it now sweeter even than health .
Jack sat on the rug beside her , looking at a white carnation through the magnifying glass , while she was enjoying the perfume of a red one as she talked to him .
`` If you look at the white petals you 'll see that they sparkle like marble , and go winding a long way down to the middle of the flower where it grows sort of rosy ; and in among the small , curly leaves , like fringed curtains , you can see the little green fairy sitting all alone .
Your mother showed me that , and I think it is very pretty .
I call it a ` fairy , ' but it is really where the seeds are hidden and the sweet smell comes from . ''
Jill spoke softly lest she should disturb the others , and , as she turned to push up her pillow , she saw Mrs. Minot looking at her with a smile she did not understand .
`` Did you speak , 'm ? ''
she asked , smiling back again , without in the least knowing why .
`` No , dear .
I was listening and thinking what a pretty little story one could make out of your fairy living alone down there , and only known by her perfume . ''
`` Tell it , Mamma .
It is time for our story , and that would be a nice one , I guess , '' said Jack , who was as fond of stories as when he sat in his mother 's lap and chuckled over the hero of the beanstalk .
`` We do n't have fairy tales on Sunday , you know , '' began Jill regretfully .
`` Call it a parable , and have a moral to it , then it will be all right , '' put in Frank , as he shut his big book , having found what he wanted .
`` I like stories about saints , and the good and wonderful things they did , '' said Jill , who enjoyed the wise and interesting bits Mrs. Minot often found for her in grown-up books , for Jill had thoughtful times , and asked questions which showed that she was growing fast in mind if not in body .
`` This is a true story ; but I will disguise it a little , and call it ` The Miracle of Saint Lucy , ' '' began Mrs. Minot , seeing a way to tell her good news and amuse the children likewise .
Frank retired to the easy-chair , that he might sleep if the tale should prove too childish for him .
Jill settled herself among her cushions , and Jack lay flat upon the rug , with his feet up , so that he could admire his red slippers and rest his knee , which ached .
`` Once upon a time there was a queen who had two princes . ''
`` Was n't there a princess ? ''
asked Jack , interested at once .
`` No ; and it was a great sorrow to the queen that she had no little daughter , for the sons were growing up , and she was often very lonely .
`` Like Snowdrop 's mother , '' whispered Jill .
`` Now , do n't keep interrupting , children , or we never shall get on , '' said Frank , more anxious to hear about the boys that were than the girl that was not .
`` One day , when the princes were out -- ahem !
we 'll say hunting -- they found a little damsel lying on the snow , half dead with cold , they thought .
She was the child of a poor woman who lived in the forest -- a wild little thing , always dancing and singing about ; as hard to catch as a squirrel , and so fearless she would climb the highest trees , leap broad brooks , or jump off the steep rocks to show her courage .
The boys carried her home to the palace , and the queen was glad to have her .
She had fallen and hurt herself , so she lay in bed week after week , with her mother to take care of her -- '' `` That 's you , '' whispered Jack , throwing the white carnation at Jill , and she threw back the red one , with her finger on her lips , for the tale was very interesting now .
`` She did not suffer much after a time , but she scolded and cried , and could not be resigned , because she was a prisoner .
The queen tried to help her , but she could not do much ; the princes were kind , but they had their books and plays , and were away a good deal .
Some friends she had came often to see her , but still she beat her wings against the bars , like a wild bird in a cage , and soon her spirits were all gone , and it was sad to see her . ''
`` Where was your Saint Lucy ?
I thought it was about her , '' asked Jack , who did not like to have Jill 's past troubles dwelt upon , since his were not .
`` She is coming .
Saints are not born -- they are made after many trials and tribulations , '' answered his mother , looking at the fire as if it helped her to spin her little story .
`` Well , the poor child used to sing sometimes to while away the long hours -- sad songs mostly , and one among them which the queen taught her was ` Sweet Patience , Come . '
`` This she used to sing a great deal after a while , never dreaming that Patience was an angel who could hear and obey .
But it was so ; and one night , when the girl had lulled herself to sleep with that song , the angel came .
Nobody saw the lovely spirit with tender eyes , and a voice that was like balm .
No one heard the rustle of wings as she hovered over the little bed and touched the lips , the eyes , the hands of the sleeper , and then flew away , leaving three gifts behind .
The girl did not know why , but after that night the songs grew gayer , there seemed to be more sunshine everywhere her eyes looked , and her hands were never tired of helping others in various pretty , useful , or pleasant ways .
Slowly the wild bird ceased to beat against the bars , but sat in its cage and made music for all in the palace , till the queen could not do without it , the poor mother cheered up , and the princes called the girl their nightingale . ''
`` Was that the miracle ? ''
asked Jack , forgetting all about his slippers , as he watched Jill 's eyes brighten and the color come up in her white cheeks .
`` That was the miracle , and Patience can work far greater ones if you will let her . ''
`` And the girl 's name was Lucy ? ''
`` Yes ; they did not call her a saint then , but she was trying to be as cheerful as a certain good woman she had heard of , and so the queen had that name for her , though she did not let her know it for a long time . ''
`` That 's not bad for a Sunday story , but there might have been more about the princes , seems to me , '' was Frank 's criticism , as Jill lay very still , trying to hide her face behind the carnation , for she had no words to tell how touched and pleased she was to find that her little efforts to be good had been seen , remembered , and now rewarded in this way .
`` There is more . ''
`` Then the story is n't done ? ''
cried Jack .
`` Oh dear , no ; the most interesting things are to come , if you can wait for them . ''
`` Yes , I see , this is the moral part .
Now keep still , and let us have the rest , '' commanded Frank , while the others composed themselves for the sequel , suspecting that it was rather nice , because Mamma 's sober face changed , and her eyes laughed as they looked at the fire .
`` The elder prince was very fond of driving dragons , for the people of that country used these fiery monsters as horses . ''
`` And got run away with , did n't he ? ''
laughed Jack , adding , with great interest , `` What did the other fellow do ? ''
`` He went about fighting other people 's battles , helping the poor , and trying to do good .
But he lacked judgment , so he often got into trouble , and was in such a hurry that he did not always stop to find out the wisest way .
As when he gave away his best coat to a beggar boy , instead of the old one which he intended to give . ''
`` I say , that is n't fair , mother !
Neither of them was new , and the boy needed the best more than I did , and I wore the old one all winter , did n't I ? ''
asked Jack , who had rather exulted over Frank , and was now taken down himself .
`` Yes , you did , my dear ; and it was not an easy thing for my dandiprat to do .
Now listen , and I 'll tell you how they both learned to be wiser .
The elder prince soon found that the big dragons were too much for him , and set about training his own little one , who now and then ran away with him .
Its name was Will , a good servant , but a bad master ; so he learned to control it , and in time this gave him great power over himself , and fitted him to be a king over others . ''
`` Thank you , mother ; I 'll remember my part of the moral .
Now give Jack his , '' said Frank , who liked the dragon episode , as he had been wrestling with his own of late , and found it hard to manage .
`` He had a fine example before him in a friend , and he followed it more reasonably till he grew able to use wisely one of the best and noblest gifts of God -- benevolence . ''
`` Now tell about the girl .
Was there more to that part of the story ? ''
asked Jack , well pleased with his moral , as it took Ed in likewise .
`` That is the best of all , but it seems as if I never should get to it .
After Patience made Lucy sweet and cheerful , she began to have a curious power over those about her , and to work little miracles herself , though she did not know it .
The queen learned to love her so dearly she could not let her go ; she cheered up all her friends when they came with their small troubles ; the princes found bright eyes , willing hands , and a kind heart always at their service , and felt , without quite knowing why , that it was good for them to have a gentle little creature to care for ; so they softened their rough manners , loud voices , and careless ways , for her sake , and when it was proposed to take her away to her own home they could not give her up , but said she must stay longer , did n't they ? ''
`` I 'd like to see them saying anything else , '' said Frank , while Jack sat up to demand fiercely , -- `` Who talks about taking Jill away ? ''
`` Lucy 's mother thought she ought to go , and said so , but the queen told her how much good it did them all to have her there , and begged the dear woman to let her little cottage and come and be housekeeper in the palace , for the queen was getting lazy , and liked to sit and read , and talk and sew with Lucy , better than to look after things . ''
`` And she said she would ? ''
cried Jill , clasping her hands in her anxiety , for she had learned to love her cage now .
`` Yes . ''
Mrs. Minot had no time to say more , for one of the red slippers flew up in the air , and Jack had to clap both hands over his mouth to suppress the `` hurrah ! ''
that nearly escaped .
Frank said , `` That 's good ! ''
and nodded with his most cordial smile at Jill who pulled herself up with cheeks now as rosy as the red carnation , and a little catch in her breath as she said to herself , -- `` It 's too lovely to be true . ''
`` That 's a first-rate end to a very good story , '' began Jack , with grave decision , as he put on his slipper and sat up to pat Jill 's hand , wishing it was not quite so like a little claw .
`` That 's not the end ; '' and Mamma 's eyes laughed more than ever as three astonished faces turned to her , and three voices cried out , -- `` Still more ? ''
`` The very best of all .
You must know that , while Lucy was busy for others , she was not forgotten , and when she was expecting to lie on her bed through the summer , plans were being made for all sorts of pleasant changes .
First of all , she was to have a nice little brace to support the back which was growing better every day ; then , as the warm weather came on , she was to go out , or lie on the piazza ; and by and by , when school was done , she was to go with the queen and the princes for a month or two down to the sea-side , where fresh air and salt water were to build her up in the most delightful way .
There , now !
is n't that the best ending of all ? ''
and Mamma paused to read her answer in the bright faces of two of the listeners , for Jill hid hers in the pillow , and lay quite still , as if it was too much for her .
`` That will be regularly splendid !
I 'll row you all about -- boating is so much easier than riding , and I like it on salt water , '' said Frank , going to sit on the arm of the sofa , quite excited by the charms of the new plan .
`` And I 'll teach you to swim , and roll you over the beach , and get sea-weed and shells , and no end of nice things , and we 'll all come home as strong as lions , '' added Jack , scrambling up as if about to set off at once .
`` The doctor says you have been doing finely of late , and the brace will come to-morrow , and the first really mild day you are to have a breath of fresh air .
Wo n't that be good ? ''
asked Mrs. Minot , hoping her story had not been too interesting .
`` Is she crying ? ''
said Jack , much concerned as he patted the pillow in his most soothing way , while Frank lifted one curl after another to see what was hidden underneath .
Not tears , for two eyes sparkled behind the fingers , then the hands came down like clouds from before the sun , and Jill 's face shone out so bright and happy it did one 's heart good to see it .
`` I 'm not crying , '' she said with a laugh which was fuller of blithe music than any song she sung .
`` But it was so splendid , it sort of took my breath away for a minute .
I thought I was n't any better , and never should be , and I made up my mind I would n't ask , it would be so hard for any one to tell me so .
Now I see why the doctor made me stand up , and told me to get my baskets ready to go a-Maying .
I thought he was in fun ; did he really mean I could go ? ''
asked Jill , expecting too much , for a word of encouragement made her as hopeful as she had been despondent before .
`` No , dear , not so soon as that .
It will be months , probably , before you can walk and run , as you used to ; but they will soon pass .
You need n't mind about May-day ; it is always too cold for flowers , and you will find more here among your own plants , than on the hills , to fill your baskets , '' answered Mrs. Minot , hastening to suggest something pleasant to beguile the time of probation .
`` I can wait .
Months are not years , and if I 'm truly getting well , everything will seem beautiful and easy to me , '' said Jill , laying herself down again , with the patient look she had learned to wear , and gathering up the scattered carnations to enjoy their spicy breath , as if the fairies hidden there had taught her some of their sweet secrets .
`` Dear little girl , it has been a long , hard trial for you , but it is coming to an end , and I think you will find that it has not been time wasted , I do n't want you to be a saint quite yet , but I am sure a gentler Jill will rise up from that sofa than the one who lay down there in December . ''
`` How could I help growing better , when you were so good to me ? ''
cried Jill , putting up both arms , as Mrs. Minot went to take Frank 's place , and he retired to the fire , there to stand surveying the scene with calm approval .
`` You have done quite as much for us ; so we are even .
I proved that to your mother , and she is going to let the little house and take care of the big one for me , while I borrow you to keep me happy and make the boys gentle and kind .
That is the bargain , and we get the best of it , '' said Mrs. Minot , looking well pleased , while Jack added , `` That 's so ! ''
and Frank observed with an air of conviction , `` We could n't get on without Jill , possibly . ''
`` Can I do all that ?
I did n't know I was of any use .
I only tried to be good and grateful , for there did n't seem to be anything else I could do , '' said Jill , wondering why they were all so fond of her .
`` No real trying is ever in vain .
It is like the spring rain , and flowers are sure to follow in good time .
The three gifts Patience gave Saint Lucy were courage , cheerfulness , and love , and with these one can work the sweetest miracles in the world , as you see , '' and Mrs. Minot pointed to the pretty room and its happy inmates .
`` Am I really the least bit like that good Lucinda ?
I tried to be , but I did n't think I was , '' asked Jill softly .
`` You are very like her in all ways but one .
She did not get well , and you will . ''
A short answer , but it satisfied Jill to her heart 's core , and that night , when she lay in bed , she thought to herself : `` How curious it is that I 've been a sort of missionary without knowing it !
They all love and thank me , and wo n't let me go , so I suppose I must have done something , but I do n't know what , except trying to be good and pleasant . ''
That was the secret , and Jill found it out just when it was most grateful as a reward for past efforts , most helpful as an encouragement toward the constant well-doing which can make even a little girl a joy and comfort to all who know and love her .
Chapter XVI .
Up at Merry 's `` Now fly round , child , and get your sweeping done up smart and early . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
`` I shall want you to help me about the baking , by and by . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
`` Roxy is cleaning the cellar-closets , so you 'll have to get the vegetables ready for dinner .
Father wants a boiled dish , and I shall be so busy I ca n't see to it . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
A cheerful voice gave the three answers , but it cost Merry an effort to keep it so , for she had certain little plans of her own which made the work before her unusually distasteful .
Saturday always was a trying day , for , though she liked to see rooms in order , she hated to sweep , as no speck escaped Mrs. Grant 's eye , and only the good old-fashioned broom , wielded by a pair of strong arms , was allowed .
Baking was another trial : she loved good bread and delicate pastry , but did not enjoy burning her face over a hot stove , daubing her hands with dough , or spending hours rolling out cookies for the boys ; while a `` boiled dinner '' was her especial horror , as it was not elegant , and the washing of vegetables was a job she always shirked when she could .
However , having made up her mind to do her work without complaint , she ran upstairs to put on her dust-cap , trying to look as if sweeping was the joy of her life .
`` It is such a lovely day , I did want to rake my garden , and have a walk with Molly , and finish my book so I can get another , '' she said with a sigh , as she leaned out of the open window for a breath of the unusually mild air .
Down in the ten-acre lot the boys were carting and spreading loam ; out in the barn her father was getting his plows ready ; over the hill rose the smoke of the distant factory , and the river that turned the wheels was gliding through the meadows , where soon the blackbirds would be singing .
Old Bess pawed the ground , eager to be off ; the gray hens were scratching busily all about the yard ; even the green things in the garden were pushing through the brown earth , softened by April rains , and there was a shimmer of sunshine over the wide landscape that made every familiar object beautiful with hints of spring , and the activity it brings .
Something made the old nursery hymn come into Merry 's head , and humming to herself , `` In works of labor or of skill I would be busy too , '' she tied on her cap , shouldered her broom , and fell to work so energetically that she soon swept her way through the chambers , down the front stairs to the parlor door , leaving freshness and order behind her as she went .
She always groaned when she entered that apartment , and got out of it again as soon as possible , for it was , like most country parlors , a prim and chilly place , with little beauty and no comfort .
Black horse-hair furniture , very slippery and hard , stood against the wall ; the table had its gift books , albums , worsted mat and ugly lamp ; the mantel-piece its china vases , pink shells , and clock that never went ; the gay carpet was kept distressingly bright by closed shutters six days out of the seven , and a general air of go-to-meeting solemnity pervaded the room .
Merry longed to make it pretty and pleasant , but her mother would allow of no change there , so the girl gave up her dreams of rugs and hangings , fine pictures and tasteful ornaments , and dutifully aired , dusted , and shut up this awful apartment once a week , privately resolving that , if she ever had a parlor of her own , it should not be as dismal as a tomb .
The dining-room was a very different place , for here Merry had been allowed to do as she liked , yet so gradual had been the change , that she would have found it difficult to tell how it came about .
It seemed to begin with the flowers , for her father kept his word about the `` posy pots , '' and got enough to make quite a little conservatory in the bay-window , which was sufficiently large for three rows all round , and hanging-baskets overhead .
Being discouraged by her first failure , Merry gave up trying to have things nice everywhere , and contented herself with making that one nook so pretty that the boys called it her `` bower . ''
Even busy Mrs. Grant owned that plants were not so messy as she expected , and the farmer was never tired of watching `` little daughter '' as she sat at work there , with her low chair and table full of books .
The lamp helped , also , for Merry set up her own , and kept it so well trimmed that it burned clear and bright , shining on the green arch of ivy overhead , and on the nasturtium vines framing the old glass , and peeping at their gay little faces , and at the pretty young girl , so pleasantly that first her father came to read his paper by it , then her mother slipped in to rest on the lounge in the corner , and finally the boys hovered about the door as if the `` settin ' - room '' had grown more attractive than the kitchen .
But the open fire did more than anything else to win and hold them all , as it seldom fails to do when the black demon of an airtight stove is banished from the hearth .
After the room was cleaned till it shone , Merry begged to have the brass andirons put in , and offered to keep them as bright as gold if her mother would consent .
So the great logs were kindled , and the flames went dancing up the chimney as if glad to be set free from their prison .
It changed the whole room like magic , and no one could resist the desire to enjoy its cheery comfort .
The farmer 's three-cornered leathern chair soon stood on one side , and mother 's rocker on the other , as they toasted their feet and dozed or chatted in the pleasant warmth .
The boys ' slippers were always ready on the hearth ; and when the big boots were once off , they naturally settled down about the table , where the tall lamp , with its pretty shade of pressed autumn leaves , burned brightly , and the books and papers lay ready to their hands instead of being tucked out of sight in the closet .
They were beginning to see that `` Merry 's notions '' had some sense in them , since they were made comfortable , and good-naturedly took some pains to please her in various ways .
Tom brushed his hair and washed his hands nicely before he came to table .
Dick tried to lower his boisterous laughter , and Harry never smoked in the sitting-room .
Even Roxy expressed her pleasure in seeing `` things kind of spruced up , '' and Merry 's gentle treatment of the hard-working drudge won her heart entirely .
The girl was thinking of these changes as she watered her flowers , dusted the furniture , and laid the fire ready for kindling ; and , when all was done , she stood a minute to enjoy the pleasant room , full of spring sunshine , fresh air , and exquisite order .
It seemed to give her heart for more distasteful labors , and she fell to work at the pies as cheerfully as if she liked it .
Mrs. Grant was flying about the kitchen , getting the loaves of brown and white bread ready for the big oven .
Roxy 's voice came up from the cellar singing `` Bounding Billows , '' with a swashing and scrubbing accompaniment which suggested that she was actually enjoying a `` life on the ocean wave . ''
Merry , in her neat cap and apron , stood smiling over her work as she deftly rolled and clipped , filled and covered , finding a certain sort of pleasure in doing it well , and adding interest to it by crimping the crust , making pretty devices with strips of paste and star-shaped prickings of the fork .
`` Good-will giveth skill , '' says the proverb , and even particular Mrs. Grant was satisfied when she paused to examine the pastry with her experienced eye .
`` You are a handy child and a credit to your bringing up , though I do say it .
Those are as pretty pies as I 'd wish to eat , if they bake well , and there 's no reason why they should n't . ''
`` May I make some tarts or rabbits of these bits ?
The boys like them , and I enjoy modelling this sort of thing , '' said Merry , who was trying to mould a bird , as she had seen Ralph do with clay to amuse Jill while the bust was going on .
`` No , dear ; there 's no time for knick-knacks to-day .
The beets ought to be on this minute .
Run and get 'em , and be sure you scrape the carrots well . ''
Poor Merry put away the delicate task she was just beginning to like , and taking a pan went down cellar , wishing vegetables could be grown without earth , for she hated to put her hands in dirty water .
A word of praise to Roxy made that grateful scrubber leave her work to poke about in the root-cellar , choosing `` sech as was pretty much of a muchness , else they would n't bile even ; '' so Merry was spared that part of the job , and went up to scrape and wash without complaint , since it was for father .
She was repaid at noon by the relish with which he enjoyed his dinner , for Merry tried to make even a boiled dish pretty by arranging the beets , carrots , turnips , and potatoes in contrasting colors , with the beef hidden under the cabbage leaves .
`` Now , I 'll rest and read for an hour , then I 'll rake my garden , or run down town to see Molly and get some seeds , '' she thought to herself , as she put away the spoons and glasses , which she liked to wash , that they might always be clear and bright .
`` If you 've done all your own mending , there 's a heap of socks to be looked over .
Then I 'll show you about darning the tablecloths .
I do hate to have a stitch of work left over till Monday , '' said Mrs. Grant , who never took naps , and prided herself on sitting down to her needle at 3 P.M. every day .
`` Yes , mother ; '' and Merry went slowly upstairs , feeling that a part of Saturday ought to be a holiday after books and work all the week .
As she braided up her hair , her eye fell upon the reflection of her own face in the glass .
Not a happy nor a pretty one just then , and Merry was so unaccustomed to seeing any other , that involuntarily the frown smoothed itself out , the eyes lost their weary look , the drooping lips curved into a smile , and , leaning her elbows on the bureau , she shook her head at herself , saying , half aloud , as she glanced at Ivanhoe lying near , -- `` You need n't look so cross and ugly just because you ca n't have what you want .
Sweeping , baking , and darning are not so bad as being plagued with lovers and carried off and burnt at the stake , so I wo n't envy poor Rebecca her jewels and curls and romantic times , but make the best of my own . ''
Then she laughed , and the bright face came back into the mirror , looking like an old friend , and Merry went on dressing with care , for she took pleasure in her own little charms , and felt a sense of comfort in knowing that she could always have one pretty thing to look at if she kept her own face serene and sweet .
It certainly looked so as it bent over the pile of big socks half an hour later , and brightened with each that was laid aside .
Her mother saw it , and , guessing why such wistful glances went from clock to window , kindly shortened the task of table-cloth darning by doing a good bit herself , before putting it into Merry 's hands .
She was a good and loving mother in spite of her strict ways , and knew that it was better for her romantic daughter to be learning all the housewifery lessons she could teach her , than to be reading novels , writing verses , or philandering about with her head full of girlish fancies , quite innocent in themselves , but not the stuff to live on .
So she wisely taught the hands that preferred to pick flowers , trim up rooms and mould birds , to work well with needle , broom , and rolling-pin ; put a receipt-book before the eyes that loved to laugh and weep over tender tales , and kept the young head and heart safe and happy with wholesome duties , useful studies , and such harmless pleasures as girls should love , instead of letting them waste their freshness in vague longings , idle dreams , and frivolous pastimes .
But it was often hard to thwart the docile child , and lately she had seemed to be growing up so fast that her mother began to feel a new sort of tenderness for this sweet daughter , who was almost ready to take upon herself the cares , as well as triumphs and delights , of maidenhood .
Something in the droop of the brown head , and the quick motion of the busy hand with a little burn on it , made it difficult for Mrs. Grant to keep Merry at work that day , and her eye watched the clock almost as impatiently as the girl 's , for she liked to see the young face brighten when the hour of release came .
`` What next ? ''
asked Merry , as the last stitch was set , and she stifled a sigh on hearing the clock strike four , for the sun was getting low , and the lovely afternoon going fast .
`` One more job , if you are not too tired for it .
I want the receipt for diet drink Miss Dawes promised me ; would you like to run down and get it for me , dear ? ''
`` Yes , mother ! ''
and that answer was as blithe as a robin 's chirp , for that was just where Merry wanted to go .
Away went thimble and scissors , and in five minutes away went Merry , skipping down the hill without a care in the world , for a happy heart sat singing within , and everything seemed full of beauty .
She had a capital time with Molly , called on Jill , did her shopping in the village , and had just turned to walk up the hill , when Ralph Evans came tramping along behind her , looking so pleased and proud about something that she could not help asking what it was , for they were great friends , and Merry thought that to be an artist was the most glorious career a man could choose .
`` I know you 've got some good news , '' she said , looking up at him as he touched his hat and fell into step with her , seeming more contented than before .
